8名留学生讲述：“逃”回国内，我们太难了。
Eight foreign students told us: "Run" back to China, we are too difficult.
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
燃财经                      。
Burning finance.
燃财经。
Burning finance.
每天一篇深度报道，重新定义创新经济。
A daily in-depth report redefining the creative economy.
。
.
《小酒馆》，是燃财经旗下的故事栏目，真人真事，讲述创新经济时代的人生百态。
"Tavern" is the story column of the Flaming Finance, the true story, tells the life style of the innovative economic times.
本文为第35期。
This is Issue 35.
作者 | 金玙璠 孟亚娜 陈琪编辑 | 魏佳“新冠疫情，中国打上半场，世界打下半场，华人留学生打全场”。
Ren Feng Fan Mengyana Chen Jia "The new crown epidemic, the first half of China, the second half of the world, Chinese students play the whole game."
这虽然是一句调侃，但最近几天，境外输入确诊病例数量的确在逐渐增加。
Although this is a joke, but in recent days, the number of confirmed cases imported from abroad has been gradually increasing.
疫情严重国家的留学生，要不要回国避险？有声音批评他们“千里投毒”，也有人认为，疫情之下，不能够拒绝他们回国。
Foreign students from countries with severe epidemics have been criticised for "poisoning thousands of miles" and others say they cannot be refused permission to return home because of the outbreak.
而身处漩涡中心的留学生们，一直在去和留的抉择之间徘徊。
And the students in the center of The Whirlpool, has been between the choice to go and stay.
留下？学校宣布停课，甚至部分关闭了学生宿舍，学业被迫暂停。
Schools have suspended classes or even partially closed dormitories, forcing students to suspend their studies.
当地居民的防护近乎“裸奔”，加之备受争议的“群体免疫”概念抛出后更是让华人群体恐慌升级。
Local residents "near-naked elopement, combined with the controversial notion of" mass immunization, "has exacerbated fears among the Chinese community.
既担心被感染，也担心因为戴口罩被“特殊对待”，他们独自身在海外，面临巨大的心理压力。
Fear of infection and "special treatment" for wearing masks has put them under intense psychological pressure while living abroad alone.
最重要的是，留学生不是当地公民，可能无法享受公平的医疗保障。
Most importantly, foreign students are not local citizens and may not be able to enjoy fair health care.
回国？机票一票难求，价格飞涨，24小时提价16次，随时处在被取消的边缘。
Back home? Tickets are hard to get, prices have skyrocketed, and 24-hour price rises are 16 times on the verge of being canceled.
返校时间无法确定，毕业、实习和找工作都可能被耽误，个人和家庭都需要承受一定的经济成本和时间成本。
Return times are uncertain, graduation, internships and job searches can all be delayed and individuals and families have to bear certain financial and time costs.
所在地确诊人数激增，多地的出入境、中转政策也日日更新。
The number of confirmed cases has increased dramatically and the number of immigration and transit policies has been updated daily.
在路上被感染风险增大，同时也要承受国内给留学生的舆论压力。
In the road to be infected with the increased risk, but also to bear the domestic pressure of foreign students.
一些人全副武装，已经做好不吃不喝的准备，即将踏上回国的旅程，一些人已经辗转回国，幸运落地，经过层层检查，开始按流程隔离。
Some, armed and ready to eat and drink, were about to embark on the journey home, some of whom had been tossed home, lucky to land, and quarantined through the layers of inspection.
燃财经采访了8位身处不同国家的留学生，他们讲述了自己做“逃跑派”的原因，以及回国路途上的见闻。
Flaming Finance interviewed eight foreign students in different countries about their reasons for being "runaways" and what they had seen on their way home.
他们理解舆论对部分留学生的负面评价，但他们认为，绝大部分人对祖国的支持大于对祖国的消耗，希望能得到同胞的理解。
They understand the negative public opinion towards some international students, but they believe that the overwhelming majority of people support the motherland more than the consumption of the motherland, hope to get the understanding of their compatriots.
— 曲折回国路 —退票、改签生死时速5个国内朋友帮我抢到回国机票April 24岁 法国鲁贝第一程机票被取消的那一刻，我就知道，回国没这么简单。
The minute my first flight to Rube, France, was canceled, I knew it wasn't that easy to return home.
看了一眼时间，9点50分，国内是下午4点50分，客服马上下班。
Look at the time, 9: 50 pm, domestic is 4: 50 p.m., customer service horse to work.
开电脑、查电话，我立刻拨通了客服，但国外的手机号怎么也打不通，我只好求助朋友。
Turn on the computer, check the phone, I immediately dialed the customer service, but the foreign phone number can not be opened, I had to help friends.
在4个国内朋友的帮助下，40分钟后，客服终于接通。
With the help of four friends in China, the customer service was finally connected 40 minutes later.
对方告知，如果要改签，最早一班飞机在10天后，从巴黎出发经停台北再到成都，全程23小时。
If you change your name, the earliest flight will take you 23 hours from Paris via Taipei to Chengdu in 10 days.
早些日期中转多次的机票倒是也有，但中途要是困在俄罗斯、泰国等中转国，没有签证，我完全不知道怎么办，不敢买那种票。
However, if I am stuck in a transit country such as Russia or Thailand and have no visa, I have no idea what to do and dare not buy that kind of ticket.
客服每说一句话，都会叹一声气，她接了太多这样的电话，现在各国和地区的出入境政策、中转政策一天就会更新一次，她也不敢保证航班一定能执行。
Every time a customer said a word, she would sigh, she received too many such phone calls, and now the immigration policy, transit policy of countries and regions will be updated once a day, she is not sure that flights will be carried out.
正当我犹豫的时候，她说，再不订这张机票也没有了。
Just as I hesitated, she said, I won't book this ticket again.
事实也是如此，我改签完挂掉电话后，才正式收到航班取消的信息，和我同一班飞机的人再去联系改签，客服已经下班了，他们只能退票自行重买。
In fact, after I signed up to hang up the phone, I received the formal cancellation of the flight, and my flight crew to contact the re-signed, the customer service has been closed, they have to refund the ticket to repurchase.
最开始我是打算留在欧洲找实习的。
At first I was planning to stay in Europe for an internship.
但我听说一个学姐本来已经拿到了offer，因为疫情又砍掉了，我考虑到疫情要持续两三个月，这段时间很难有实习机会。
But I heard that one of the school sisters had already got an offer, because the outbreak had been cut, and I thought it would take two or three months to get an internship.
法国对疫情的重视也不够，医疗资源有限。
France has also paid insufficient attention to the epidemic and has limited medical resources.
我戴口罩走在街上会被歧视，不戴口罩的话，有些人看到你是亚洲面孔很可能会歧视你。
If I walk down the street wearing a mask, I will be discriminated against. Some people will probably discriminate against you if they see you as an Asian face.
昨天去超市，除了中国人我就看到两个外国人戴了口罩。
I went to the supermarket yesterday and saw two foreigners wearing masks except the Chinese.
抢购一空的超市 受访者供图马克龙宣布法国处于“战争状态”，全面动员抗击疫情之后，法国人才重视起来，但目前来看，如果你只有轻度症状，他们是不会给你检测的，因为检测速度根本跟不上。
Only after Tumaron declared France a "state of war" and mobilized to fight the epidemic did the French take notice, but for now, if you had only mild symptoms, they wouldn't give you a test because they couldn't keep up.
法国人开始间隔1米排队购物 受访者供图我身边的同学有一半的人决定留下来，另一半计划回国。
The French start queuing at 1m intervals for shoppers. Half of my classmates have decided to stay and the other half are planning to return home.
他们都很担心国内给留学生的舆论压力。
They are worried about the domestic pressure on foreign students.
其实，我身边回国的人都非常自觉，在回来的路上也是非常小心，全副武装，自己也不想被感染，也不想把风险带给其他人。
In fact, I am very conscious of the people back home, on the way back is very careful, well-armed, do not want to be infected, do not want to bring the risk to others.
我室友买了2万块直飞广州的机票，已经顺利回国了，她一路上都非常感恩，不停地对各种工作人员说谢谢。
My roommate has bought 20,000 direct flight tickets to Guangzhou, has successfully returned home, she was very grateful all the way, not stop to say thank you to the various staff.
起起伏伏折腾了好几回，我心态也平和了。
After many ups and downs, I was at peace.
一边期待航班能顺利起飞，一边囤好生活物资，如果我不能走的话，就居家隔离。
While waiting for the flight to take off smoothly, while hoarding good supplies, if I can not leave, isolation at home.
曾两次写信给老师说想回国学校“不建议回家”沐艺 23岁 比利时某小镇我在2019年9月来到比利时读研，今年春节本想回国，买了往返机票，但因为国内疫情爆发，机票被取消了。
I came to Belgium in September 2019 to study in Belgium. I would like to go back to Belgium this Spring Festival to buy a round-trip air ticket, but the plane ticket was cancelled due to the outbreak of domestic epidemic.
3月初是比利时的滑雪周，有一批旅客去到意大利旅游，回来之后很多人被确诊，大多都是轻症，但因为这些人身体素质比较好，所以一开始都没有重视，直到后来形成了社区传染。
When a group of tourists returned from ski weeks in Belgium in early March, many of them were diagnosed with mild illness, but because of their better health, they were not taken seriously in the first place until a community infection developed.
在我回国的前两天，有4000多人做了检测，结果300人被确诊。
Two days before my return, more than 4,000 people were tested and 300 were diagnosed.
试剂用完了，就规定轻症不要去医院。
When the reagent runs out, rule out going to the hospital for minor ailments.
我感觉比利时人真的不怕疫情。
I feel Belgians are really not afraid of the epidemic.
学校经常会有一些交换课程要去到布鲁塞尔，布鲁塞尔火车站本来就比较乱，我们四个中国人从火车站下来的时候，因为戴了口罩被当地人破口大骂。
The Brussels train station was in disarray, and the four of us got scolded by locals for wearing masks when we got off the train station.
我们给老师写信表明不想去学校上课，但老师回复说这只是一次流感，不用害怕，学校也不会停课。
We wrote to the teacher saying that we didn't want to go to school, but the teacher replied that it was only a flu.
随着疫情越来越严重，我们又给学校写信，表示中国学生觉得不安全，想回家，当时学校不建议我们回家。
As the epidemic got worse, we wrote to the school saying that the Chinese students felt unsafe and wanted to go home.
但后来，眼看着学校一步步被打脸，前几天发邮件告诉我们可以回国了。
But then, saw the school step by step hit face, a few days ago email told us that we can return to the country.
在比利时的时候，家里人非常担心我，每天叮嘱我出门上课要戴好口罩，但我不敢戴。
When I was in Belgium, my family was very worried about me. Every day I was told to wear a mask when I went out to class.
因为去学校要坐40分钟公交车，而每天早上公交车上基本都坐满了当地高中生，如果戴口罩肯定会被骂，还有可能被攻击。
It's a 40-minute bus ride to school, and every morning the bus is packed with local high school students, who are sure to be scolded and attacked if they wear masks.
我当时很想回国，但也比较纠结，害怕被说不负责任。
I wanted to go back home, but also more tangled, afraid of being said irresponsible.
身边也有朋友说，哪怕是回国确诊了，也比在国外查出轻症强，国内的朋友们也都建议我赶紧回国。
Friends around said that even if the return of the diagnosis, than in foreign detection of light illness, friends at home have also advised me to return home.
我在3月13日买了机票，直飞北京的机票涨到了2万左右，我选择了买中转机票。
I bought my ticket on March 13, and my direct flight to Beijing rose to about 20,000. I chose to buy a transit ticket.
全程17个小时，3月14日从布鲁塞尔飞阿联酋阿布扎比，再飞北京，机票价格是8600元，比平时贵两倍多。
The 17-hour flight from Brussels to Abu Dhabi, UAE, and Beijing on March 14 cost 8,600 yuan, more than twice the usual cost.
飞机上发放的出/入境健康申明卡受访者供图从布鲁塞尔机场起飞的时候，没有任何体温检测，机场只有中国人戴了口罩。
The exit / entry health declaration card issued by the aircraft showed no temperature test at the time of departure from Brussels airport. Only the Chinese were wearing masks at the airport.
在阿布扎比转机的时候，人也特别多，而且整个航班90%以上都是来自欧洲国家的中国人。
In Abu Dhabi, the transit was particularly crowded, and more than 90% of the flights were made by Chinese from European countries.
在飞机上，大家基本都不吃饭，也有些人穿着全套防护服，我只戴了口罩和普通眼镜，因为当时什么都买不到了。
On the plane, most people don't eat, some people wear full protective clothing, I only wear masks and ordinary glasses, because then nothing can be bought.
抵达首都机场后排队交表 受访者供图我在3月15日落地北京首都机场，国内机场的防护做得特别严。
I landed at Beijing Capital Airport on March 15th. Security at the domestic airport was particularly tight.
当时国外的航班特别多，需要分批下机，先是西班牙、意大利等疫情严重的国家航班，接着才是我们。
There were a lot of flights from abroad, and they had to be disembarked in batches, first by Spanish and Italian national flights, then by us.
我是早上8点50分落地的，11点才下飞机。
I landed at 8: 50 in the morning and got off the plane at 11: 00.
抵达之后，在机场一路填表，测体温，全程有专属通道。
After arrival, at the airport all the way fill in the form, temperature measurement, the entire journey has its own channel.
取完行李后，有专车把我们带到新国展登记。
After collecting our luggage, a special bus will take us to the new exhibition registration.
之后，有专门的车辆把我送到了高铁站，在高铁站也设立境外旅客专区。
After that, a special vehicle took me to the high-speed railway station, and set up an overseas passenger zone at the high-speed railway station.
北京南站境外旅客专区 受访者供图回到江苏后，我先做了检测，现在一个人在酒店隔离，今天是我隔离的第二天。
Beijing South Station Overseas Passenger Zone respondents to map back to Jiangsu, I did a test, now a person in the hotel isolation, today is the day after my isolation.
机票涨了三倍路上用滑雪镜代替护目镜小明 30岁 奥地利维也纳我是2009年4月出国的，当时在奥地利维也纳音乐学院读歌剧。
-Triple the Ticket -Triple the Road Using Ski Mirrors instead of goggles Xiaoming, 30 years old Vienna, Austria I went abroad in April 2009 when I was studying opera at the Vienna Conservatory of Music in Austria.
毕业以后，我留在了维也纳，从事关于中欧旅游文化交流的工作，今年是我在奥地利的第11个年头。
After graduation, I stayed in Vienna to work on cultural exchanges between China and Europe. This year is my 11th year in Austria.
奥地利有一项“反蒙面法”，导致一些想戴口罩的人也不敢戴，如果发现戴口罩，会被罚款150欧元左右。
Austria has an "anti-masked law" that discourages some would-be masks from wearing them and imposes a fine of around 150 euros if they are found wearing them.
非常时期，华人群体如果戴口罩乘坐公共交通工具，还会被一些反华的当地人攻击。
In times of emergency, when Chinese communities wear masks on public transport, they are attacked by anti-Chinese locals.
我认为这次欧洲疫情很可能持续到9月、10月，而每年的7月、8月是旅游旺季，如果到时候疫情还没得到控制，我今年基本上就失业了。
I think the epidemic in Europe is likely to continue into September and October, and July and August are the best months of the year. If the epidemic is not under control by then, I'll be out of work this year.
回想年初国内疫情爆发的时候，我们在奥地利的华人华侨还向武汉进行了物资捐赠，但万万没想到，3月初欧洲会爆发疫情。
Recalling the outbreak of domestic epidemic in early March, we Chinese in Austria also made material donations to Wuhan, but did not expect the outbreak of the European outbreak in early March.
欧洲疫情初期，虽然家里人不断给我发信息劝我回国，但我没想过，因为有项考试刚好在4月。
In the early stages of the epidemic in Europe, I was constantly told by my family to return home, but I never thought about it because there was an exam just in April.
最近当地政府叫停了所有学校的课程，也通知考试可适当延期。
Recently, the local government suspended all school programs and informed them that the exams could be postponed appropriately.
3月12日，朋友告知我奥地利将会在3月17日封城，让我早做打算。
On March 12, my friend told me that Austria would close the city on March 17 and let me plan ahead.
我开始观望机票，当日我观察到3月15日从维也纳经停台北飞往北京的航班，价格在7000元左右，但第二天机票涨到了11000元，比平时翻了三倍，而且3月16日这趟航班就停飞，所以我赶紧买了。
I started to watch the tickets. On that day, I observed that the price of the flight from Vienna to Beijing on March 15 via Taipei was around 7,000 yuan, but the next day the flight increased to 11,000 yuan, three times more than usual, and the flight stopped on March 16.
现在如果想回国，只能中转韩国和日本，机票最低价在15000元左右，飞行全程长达30-40个小时。
Now, if you want to return home, you can only transit Korea and Japan, the lowest price of air tickets around 15,000 yuan, the entire flight 30-40 hours.
决定回国之后，我开始着手准备防护工具。
After deciding to return home, I set about preparing the tools for protection.
但是医疗防护工具短缺，我只能用滑雪镜代替护目镜。
But there was a shortage of medical protection, so I had to use ski goggles instead of goggles.
接着找朋友买了100个一次性口罩，戴了两层口罩，尽量把自己包裹得非常严实。
Then I went to a friend and bought 100 disposable masks and a two-layer mask, wrapping myself as tightly as possible.
维也纳机场咖啡店工作人员未戴口罩和手套受访者供图回国那天在维也纳机场，老外工作人员没人戴口罩，但都戴了手套。
Vienna Airport Coffee Shop Staff Wearing Mask and Gloves Respondents wore gloves while none of the foreigners wore masks at Vienna airport on the day of their return.
老外比较注重勤洗手，他们认为病毒是通过手部感染的。
Foreigners pay more attention to hand washing, they think the virus is infected through the hand.
咖啡店和商店都开着，但工作人员没做任何防护措施。
The coffee shop and the store were open, but the staff did not take any precautions.
整个机场只有华人旅客戴口罩，跟我乘坐同一班航班的旅客，大多都戴着口罩，也有几个人穿着防护服。
There were only Chinese passengers wearing masks at the airport. Most of the passengers on my flight were wearing masks and a few were wearing protective clothing.
在飞机上，大家基本上都在睡觉。
On the plane, everyone was basically asleep.
3月15日早上5点45分，我抵达台北机场。
I arrived at Taipei Airport at 5: 45 a.m. on March 15th.
从台北的机场起飞前，工作人员让我们填写了表格，并告知我们飞往北京需要被统一隔离14天，并征得了大家同意。
Before taking off from the Taipei airport, the staff asked us to fill out the form and told us that the flight to Beijing would require a 14-day quarantine, and we agreed.
早上11点，飞机抵达了北京首都机场。
The plane arrived at Beijing Capital Airport at 11 a.m.
抵达机场后地面的防疫人员 受访者供图降落之后，我在飞机上等待了三个小时，由防疫人员挨个点名，出去做检测。
After arriving at the airport and being interviewed by immunization personnel for a landing, I waited on the plane for three hours before the vaccination officers went out to be tested.
下飞机后，有一条专门为境外归国人员设置的特殊通道，首先是填表、然后测体温、接着到了入境大厅，接着取行李。
After disembarkation, there is a special passage for persons returning from abroad, first to fill in the forms, then take the temperature, then to the arrival hall and then pick up the luggage.
北京首都机场工作人员提前把航班的行李集中在了一起 受访者供图拿到行李时已经是下午4点半，因为我已经提前买好了机票，最终目的地是郑州，所以没有去新国展，直接在机场办理了转机。
It was 4: 30pm when the interviewee tried to get the luggage, because I had already bought the ticket in advance and the final destination was Zhengzhou, so I didn't go to the new National Exhibition, so I went directly to the airport to change planes.
— 为什么要当“逃跑派” —在鲍里斯发表讲话的第二天早上我买了回国的机票Daisy24岁 英国伯明翰3月7日左右，意大利的态势变得严重，我开始担心英国疫情的情况，接下来的两周，我全程自己待在房间里隔离，有一些自闭。
Birmingham, U.K. Around March 7, the situation in Italy became so serious that I began to worry about the state of the epidemic in Britain. I spent the next two weeks alone in my room, isolated and self-contained.
如果继续待下去，意味着2-3个月无法出门，心理压力真的很大。
If you continue to stay, it means two to three months can not go out, psychological pressure is really very high.
面对疫情，英国政府基本没有作为，当地民众也无动于衷，他们的状态让我感到非常恐惧。
The British government has done little to deal with the epidemic, and the local population has been indifferent, and their state has made me very scared.
我是2019年8月底来的英国，英国研究生是三个学期制，第三个学期只剩下写毕业论文了，学校已经承诺可以帮助我们解决签证问题，如果回国的话对学业几乎没有影响。
I came to the UK at the end of August 2019. There are three semesters for British graduate students, and the third semester is all I have left to write my thesis.
当时纠结要不要回国，但考虑到路上被感染的可能性很大，同时我的课程3月13日才结束，再考虑到回国工作申请落户，规定需要在境外待满360天，我原计划留下写毕业论文。
The question was whether to return home, but given the high risk of infection on the road and the fact that my course ended on 13 March, I had planned to stay abroad for 360 days to prepare my graduation thesis, taking into account the fact that my course ended on 13 March.
直到3月12日，英国首相鲍里斯在新闻发布会上表示，英国疫情的“遏制阶段”已经失败，正式转入被动的“拖延”阶段，我听完内心实在承受不了，还是保命要紧。
Until March 12, British Prime Minister Boris told a news conference that the "containment phase" of the British epidemic had failed, and that I could not bear the "delay" phase of the epidemic.
第二天一早，我就买了回国的机票。
The next morning, I bought a ticket home.
2020.03.13 Daily Mail (每日邮报) 封面那个时候，直飞北上广的机票已经买不到了，而且非常贵。
2020.03.13 On the cover of the Daily Mail, direct flights to the north were already unavailable and expensive.
于是我买了一张3月17日从伯明翰飞往迪拜再到香港的机票。
So I bought a flight from Birmingham to Dubai and then to Hong Kong on March 17.
本来打算从香港入境，再到深圳过海关。
I was planning to enter Hong Kong and go through Shenzhen Customs.
但现在香港政策多变，深圳也不太好入境了。
But Hong Kong's policies are changing, and Shenzhen is not a very good place to go.
我家在北方，回北京隔离会方便点，于是我又买了从香港飞北京的机票，一共6000多元。
My home in the north, back to Beijing isolation will be convenient, so I bought a flight from Hong Kong to Beijing, a total of 6,000 yuan.
在我买完机票之后，香港的政策变了，从3月19日开始，所有从英美飞往香港的航班，如果旅客没有香港的长期居住证都无法入境香港。
Since I bought my ticket, Hong Kong's policy has changed. From March 19, all flights from the United States and the United States to Hong Kong will not be allowed to enter Hong Kong without a Hong Kong permanent residence permit.
在留学生群里，我看到有朋友3月18日从迪拜飞香港的机票被取消了。
Among the international students, I saw the cancellation of a friend's flight from Dubai to Hong Kong on March 18th.
那天早上起床后，我一直在刷消息，解读政策，感觉很懵。
After getting up that morning, I had been brushing the news, interpreting the policy, feeling stunned.
但好在我是3月18日晚上抵达香港，有几个小时的时间差，希望能够顺利入境。
But I arrived in Hong Kong on the night of March 18, a few hours later, hoping to make it through.
回国之后，我应该会先去医院做检查，然后再去隔离点隔离14天。
After I return home, I should go to the hospital for a check-up, then go to the quarantine site and isolate for 14 days.
我做好了面对高额医疗费用的准备，毕竟就算在国外确诊的话，费用也会只高不低，而且还可能得不到很好的治疗。
I am prepared to face the high cost of care, which, even when diagnosed abroad, can be expensive and not well treated.
这个时候从国外飞回国，确实增加了人口流动性和感染机率，我其实感觉自己有些不负责任，但我确实非常恐惧，很感谢祖国能够接受我。
This time fly back from abroad, did increase the mobility of the population and infection rate, I actually feel a little irresponsible, but I am really very scared, very grateful that my motherland can accept me.
还在犹豫是否要回国的朋友们，我觉得大家要做好两手准备，一定要做好个人防护，同时也要给自己留一条后路。
Still hesitating whether to return to the country friends, I think we should be prepared to do a good job of personal protection, but also to leave their own way.
我戴着口罩站在路边被白人摇下车窗吐了口痰蒋博闻 20岁澳大利亚墨尔本英法已经放弃治疗了，我也不信任这里的政府，不认为他们能控制住疫情。
I was standing by the side of the road wearing a mask when the white man rolled down the window and spat. Chiang heard that Melbourne, Australia, was 20 years old. Britain and France have given up treatment.
墨尔本所在的维多利亚州已经进入紧急状态，但是我并没有看出紧急在哪里。
Melbourne's state of emergency is in place in Victoria, but I don't see where the emergency is.
我担心一旦疫情大爆发，他们直接把机场关了，到时候想走都走不了。
I'm afraid that once the outbreak hits, they'll shut down the airport and they won't be able to walk.
新闻上报道墨尔本确诊病例不到30例，大多都是输入型病例，但是这个病潜伏期很长，可能很多人已经被感染了，他们并没有意识到，天天还在开party，到处乱跑。
Less than 30 confirmed cases have been reported in Melbourne, mostly imported cases, but the incubation period is long, and many people may have been infected without realizing that they are still partying and running around.
所有场所都是开放状态，一切照常，就好像什么都没有发生一样，只是每天早上七八点左右，这边的商场就会被掏空。
All places were open, and business as usual, as if nothing had happened, except that the mall would be hollowed out by about seven or eight in the morning.
这里的人不喜欢戴口罩，而且会对戴口罩的华人进行言语上的攻击，我们既要担心疫情，还要担心因为戴口罩被人骂被人打。
People here don't like wearing masks and will verbally attack Chinese wearing masks. We have to worry about both the outbreak and being scolded for wearing masks.
我和同学走在路上，他们会对着我们喊“virus，virus（病毒）”。
My classmates and I were on our way, and they would yell "virus virus" at us.
前几天，有个白人开着车特地停到我面前，摇下车窗，对着我吐痰。
The other day, a white man pulled up in front of me, rolled down the window and spat at me.
万一疫情大爆发，我们会不会被区别对待呢？因为对华的旅行禁令，很多中国留学生3月份开学季来不了，只能推迟或取消，生源大量减少，这里各大高校的财政状况就开始紧张了，我们学校就在裁减教职工。
Because of the travel ban on China, many Chinese students will not be able to come to school until the start of the school year in March and have to postpone or cancel it.
我读的是语言班，课程刚修到一半，刚开始学校不停学、不停课，我的同学即便不打算回国，也是翘课不去上的，我和家人商量后还是决定回国，大不了就是花点钱和半年时间，毕竟保命要紧。
I was in the middle of a language class and had just started school. My classmates didn't go to class even if they didn't plan to return home. After consulting my family, I decided to go home.
最新消息是语言班允许停课了，那我就不用休学了，等旅游禁令取消，等墨尔本安全了，再回来。
The latest news is that the language classes are allowed to suspend classes, so I don't have to suspend classes until the travel ban is lifted and Melbourne is safe.
我上周五买到了18日晚从澳大利亚墨尔本飞广州白云机场的航班，票价是平时的两倍，不过现在已经一票难求。
I bought an 18-night flight from Melbourne, Australia, to Baiyun Airport in Guangzhou on Friday night. It was twice the usual fare, but it's been a tough flight.
感觉我的航班随时处在被取消的边缘，如果取消了我只能自闭了。
I feel that my flight is on the verge of cancellation at any time, if cancelled I have to shut myself down.
没有对比就没有伤害，我现在做坚定的逃跑派，经过这次疫情，我完全无条件信任我们国家政府。
No contrast, no harm, I am now a determined deserter, after this outbreak, I have full and unconditional confidence in our national government.
现在在澳大利亚的留学生，我建议能走就走，很多在英美留学的同学也是这么告诉我的。
Now students in Australia, I suggest can walk away, many students studying in the United States and the United States also told me.
这些国家的疫情爆发只是时间问题，与其等到大爆发，坐着人挤人充满危险的航班，为什么不提前做决定？穿防护服戴护目镜回国日本人看我像怪物麻越琳 29岁 日本东京最初中国疫情严重的时候，本来想在日本多待一段时间，等国内疫情好点再回去，但是现在国内控制得比较好，日本反而变得严重，在这里非常不安，所以我提前毕业从东京回国了。
The outbreak in these countries is only a matter of time, so instead of waiting for a major outbreak and a crowded and dangerous flight, why not make a decision in advance to return to Japan in protective clothing and goggles?
3月17日下午我抵达首都机场，正要去往郑州。
On the afternoon of March 17th, I arrived at the Capital Airport and was on my way to Zhengzhou.
现在的日本，非常像1月底的国内，刚刚开始重视，呼吁大家戴口罩，但还有一些顽固分子。
Japan, much like Japan at the end of January, has just begun to pay attention, calling on everyone to wear masks, but there are some die-hard elements.
很多年轻人不明白“放假”意味着什么，他们聚餐、喝酒、唱K，听说现在KTV生意好到订不到房间。
Many young people don't understand what it means to have a holiday. They dine, drink, sing K and are told KTV is too busy to book a room.
我看到一些采访的视频，很多年轻人的想法居然是“年轻，身体好，就不会死”。
I've seen videos of interviews where many young people think, "You're young, healthy, you're not going to die."
其实日本有花粉季，很多人在这个季节有戴口罩的习惯，但是现在新冠病毒在传播，反而不戴了。
Japan has a pollen season and many people wear masks this season, but now the new crown virus is spreading and is not wearing it.
防护服、面罩、护目镜、口罩，我全副武装，一路就是这样回来的，从家到机场全程被注目。
Protective clothing, face mask, goggles, masks, I am fully armed, the way back, from home to the airport was noticed.
在日本人看来，我就像个怪物，但还是小心为好。
To the Japanese, I look like a monster, but I'd better be careful.
我身边的中国人走两个极端，有些和日本人玩得比较多，被同化了，到处玩，另外一些和我一样，比较焦虑，出门要戴口罩、护目镜，除了买菜完全不出门，能在网上解决就在网上解决。
The Chinese around me went to two extremes: some played more with the Japanese, were assimilated, played around, others shared my anxiety, went out wearing masks, goggles, and were able to resolve their online disputes online, in addition to buying vegetables entirely without going out.
北海道是日本疫情比较严重的地区，当地知事曾要求中小学全部停课，但由于管控力度不严，并没有照此执行。
Hokkaido, Japan's worst affected area, has been ordered by its governor to suspend classes in all primary and secondary schools, but has not done so because of lax controls.
他们认为没有确诊就不用停课。
They don't think they need to stop classes without a diagnosis.
这也是日本现如今的普遍状态。
This is the prevailing situation in Japan today.
之前看到有消息说，有人出现类似症状，医院却不收治，我原本还以为是个例，但直到我的一个同学也出现了类似的状况，我才知道事情并不简单。
I thought it was the exception when I saw news that someone was suffering from a similar condition, but I didn't know it was going to be easy until one of my classmates got into a similar situation.
他是在类似免税店的地方接待游客的，平时接触的多是中国人，有了发烧的症状后及时打电话叫了救护车前往医院，但被医生批评“不要动不动就叫救护车”，“也不要妄自揣测自己感染了新冠病毒”，只是问他去没去过武汉，是否接触过武汉人，他说没有（仅通过机票行程单判断），医生就说“那你肯定不是”，就让他大半夜自己回家了。
The doctor told him not to call an ambulance immediately after having a fever, but he was criticized by the doctor as "not to call an ambulance so easily" and "not to presume that he was infected with the new crown virus."
从我们普通人的视角来看，医护工作者的行为，都是日本政府的鸵鸟心态导致的，不收治就不会确诊，人数少就能办奥运了。
From the point of view of ordinary people, the behavior of health-care workers, are caused by the ostrich mentality of the Japanese government, do not accept the treatment will not be diagnosed, the number of people can do the Olympic Games.
— 我们盼望被理解 —被贴上“娇气”、“任性”的标签但我们也不希望给祖国添乱Y 21岁 美国波士顿我是从波士顿回北京，平时票价往返差不多1.2万元，这次单程2.3万元。
We hope to be understood and labeled as "spoiled" or "wayward" but we also don't want to mess up our country Y 21-year-old Boston, U.S.A. I returned to Beijing from Boston for a regular round trip of almost 12,000 yuan, this time $23,000 one way.
我1月份刚刚提前毕业，计划9月份继续读研，但美国现在因为疫情进入了紧急状态，家人都比较担心，我买到了两周后回国的机票，哪怕后面来不了了，也要先保命。
I graduated early in January and plan to continue my postgraduate studies in September, but now that the country is in a state of emergency, my family is more worried that I've got a ticket home in two weeks' time, even if I can't come back later.
但现在的不确定因素是，如果两周后美国疫情彻底爆发，导致航班封锁，那就比较麻烦了。
But the uncertainty is that it would be more troublesome if the U. S. outbreak were to erupt completely two weeks later, resulting in a flight blockade.
波士顿的美国民众这两天才对疫情有比较大的反应，开始囤货，目前物资比较充足。
It took two days for the American people in Boston to respond to the epidemic, and they began stocking up, and supplies are plentiful.
当地政府反应也比较迅速，这两天州长和市长都下达了宵禁令，11点前酒吧都要关门，餐馆全部由堂食改成外卖等。
The local government responded quickly, with curfews imposed by governors and mayors on both days, closing bars before 11 a.m. and converting restaurants from parlour to takeaway.
现在电梯旁都安装了消毒型的洗手液，也贴了各种告示来告诉人们如何防护新冠病毒。
Sterilized hand sanitizers are now installed next to elevators and signs have been posted to tell people how to protect themselves from the new crown virus.
但就我观察街上的人流还是挺多的，不知道他们是买不到口罩还是怎样，大多数人都不佩戴。
But as far as I'm concerned, there are a lot of people on the street, I don't know if they can't buy masks or what, most of them don't wear them.
我们学校是一所比较大的私立学校，提供了很完善的住宿系统，目前并没有要求强制搬离，而是给大家协调安排新的宿舍，很人性化，目前没毕业的学生也开始在家上网课了。
Our school is a relatively large private school, providing a well-developed residential system, do not currently require forced relocation, but to coordinate arrangements for the new dormitory, very humane, the students who do not graduate also began home Internet classes.
美国的防控无法和中国相比，这两周对于美国来说也是很关键的时期，现在正逐渐发放更多的试剂盒，接下来确诊人数也会有明显提升。
America's control is not comparable to that of China, and these two weeks are also crucial for the United States, as more kits are being released and the number of confirmed cases will increase significantly.
我知道现在有些国人对海外输入有意见，尤其是留学生群体被贴上了“娇气”、“任性”的标签，所以招来了更多批评，我们肯定不希望这个时候给祖国添乱，但是我们的家人很担心我们，我相信，如果都能严格遵守隔离规定，还是能被理解的。
I know that some Chinese people now have problems with the importation of foreign students, especially the foreign students are labeled as "spoiled" and "wayward," which has attracted more criticism. We certainly do not want to make a mess of the country at this time, but our families are worried about us and I believe it is understandable if we all strictly abide by the quarantine rules.
对于部分媒体的态度我表示理解，这些言辞激烈的文章确实能够打消一部分已经被感染却还想回国的人的念头。
I understand some of the media's attitudes, and these acrimonious articles do dispel the thoughts of some of those who are infected and want to return home.
现在美国的医疗制度是免费检测，但是确诊后是要通过保险才能报销。
Now the U. S. health care system is free testing, but after diagnosis is through insurance to be reimbursed.
我是行业内人士，我知道有些保险并没有包含这一项，或者报销的金额不足以支撑治疗费用，所以我建议在美国的朋友要和保险公司确认清楚，这样才能在意外发生时，妥善应对。
I am an insiders, I know some insurance does not cover this item, or the amount of reimbursement is not enough to support treatment costs, so I recommend that friends in the United States and insurance companies make sure that they know what to do in the event of an accident.
华人留学生对祖国的支持大于对祖国的消耗汪同学 25岁 西班牙巴塞罗那西班牙确认病例从一千到一万，只用了一个礼拜，政策一天一更新，每天都在收紧，从学校停课到国家进入警戒状态，现在陆地边境也封了，市民从最初的满不在乎到开始恐慌。
Chinese students support the motherland more than the consumption of 25-year-old schoolmate Barcelona Spain confirmed the case from 1, 000 to 10, 000, only a week, the policy is updated every day, the state of alert from school to the state of alert, now land borders closed, citizens from the initial indifference to panic.
当地居民也知道要洗手防护，但依然不戴口罩。
Local residents also know to wash their hands, but still don't wear masks.
不是他们愚蠢或固执，而是当地媒体和政府明确告诉民众“在公共场合戴口罩是没有必要的”，这让我非常震惊。
It was not their stupidity or stubbornness that shocked me when the local media and government made it clear that "wearing a mask in public is not necessary."
巴塞罗那街头国家进入戒备状态后，拥挤的早高峰地铁地铁站正在播放关于病毒防护的宣导片这里党派林立，政府很弱势，医疗资源会不会被挤兑，能不能救治及时，都不确定。
With the streets of Barcelona on alert, the crowded early rush-hour subway stations are showing films about virus protection. The government is in a weak position. Whether medical resources will be run or not, and whether they can be treated in time, is uncertain.
但是回国一切都是确定的，回去就隔离，隔离出来就自由了，如果感染了就治疗。
But the return is certain, the isolation, the isolation is free, if infected with treatment.
我在这边平时遇到的人都是比较友好的，但是社交媒体是一个能看出情绪的地方，一些当地人会问：“为什么我作为本国人买不到口罩、洗手液，为什么这些东西都在中国人手上？”他们心理失衡，其实是因为国内疫情爆发比西班牙早两个月，疫情加重一点，我们就多买一点，等到他们反应过来已经没有了。
The people I meet here are friendly, but social media is a mood-telling place, and some locals ask, "Why can't I buy masks and hand sanitizers as a native?" Their psychological imbalance is actually due to the fact that the outbreak started two months earlier than in Spain.
药店黑板上写着“没有口罩”“没有洗手液”   “我现在知道我们西班牙的口罩都去哪了，都在中国人手里。
"There's no mask," "No hand sanitizer." "Now I know where all of our Spanish masks are, it's all in the hands of the Chinese.
”上周四我所在的大区宣布停课，我周五邮件联系系主任，说我要回国，没想到他周六就回复我，学校至少停课一个月，未来会开展网络授课，另外因为他个人对中国的一带一路非常感兴趣，让我回国后搜集相关资料，算作我的实习。
I contacted the dean of my department on Friday and said I was going back to China. I didn't expect him to reply on Saturday, he said that school would be closed for at least a month and there would be online classes in the future.
回国的机票从学校停课开始就涨得厉害，24小时提价16次。
Tickets for the trip home have risen sharply since school was suspended, with 16 24-hour price increases.
幸好我订票及时，买到了北京时间18日凌晨的航班，从巴塞罗那转机到迪拜，停留20个小时，再飞北京，在飞机上的时间，我就打算不吃不喝，等中转的时候再找个没人的地方吃东西。
Luckily, I booked a flight in the early hours of the 18th Beijing time, from Barcelona to Dubai, stayed for 20 hours, and then flew to Beijing. When I was on the plane, I decided not to eat or drink, and then find a place to eat while in transit.
我买的价格是3500元人民币，我舍友犹豫了两天，价格突破1万了，现在已经超过2万了。
I bought the price of 3500 RMB, my roommate hesitated for two days, the price has exceeded 10,000, now more than 20, 000.
机票价格现在，可飞的航班越来越少，这让华人留学生很惶恐。
Airfares Nowadays, fewer and fewer flights are available, which makes Chinese students very frightened.
我觉得“希望华人留学生不要回国”的声音背后是两类人，一类是带着善意的同胞，认为回国路上的风险更大，担心我们的健康，我表示感动；另一类是因为境外输入病例增多，为国家着急，为自己着急，我表示理解。
I think there are two kinds of people behind the "I hope Chinese students don't return home." On the one hand, I am moved by the goodwill of my compatriots who believe that they are more at risk and worried about our health on their way home.
我也希望这些同胞可以理解，华人留学生中的绝大部分人对祖国的贡献和支持是大于对祖国的消耗的。
I also hope that these compatriots can understand that the vast majority of Chinese students to the motherland's contribution and support is greater than the consumption of the motherland.
个别回国的华人做得不好，引起公愤，会受到法律的惩处。
Individual Chinese returnees who do not do well, causing public outrage, will be punished by law.
经过这次疫情，我认为我们最大的改变不是防疫的意识，或者卫生制度，而是增强了华人的民族自信心和凝聚力。
After this outbreak, I think our biggest change is not the awareness of epidemic prevention, or the health system, but the enhancement of Chinese national self-confidence and cohesion.
每个国家、政府、人民的表现、言论，在资讯发达的今天，大家都是看得到的。
Every country, government, people's performance, speech, in the information developed today, we can see.
*题图来源于视觉中国。
The picture comes from Visual China.
应受访者要求，文中April、沐艺、小明、Daisy、Y、汪同学均为化名。
At the request of the interviewee, April, Mu Yi, Xiaoming, Daisy, Y and Wang are all aliases.
你身边的留学朋友回国了吗？他们经历了什么？欢迎在评论区留下你的评论。
Have the students around you returned home? What did they experience? Welcome to leave your comments in the comments section.
我们会在点赞前三（超过20个，统计周期为7天）的评论里挑选一位网友，送出腾讯视频季卡一张。
We will pick a netizen from the comments on the top three (more than 20, with a 7-day statistical cycle) and send out a Tencent video season card.
原创文章转载请点击公众号菜单“转载合作”。
Original article reprint please click on the public number menu "reprint cooperation."
一手资讯/硬核报告/每日红包/线下活动！就差你了！快加微信rancaijing01回复“读者”一键上车！。
First-hand information / hardcore reports / daily red packets / offline activities! Not for you! Add micro-mail Rancaijing 01 reply "Reader" to get on the bus!
燃财经工作室。
Burning Finance Studio.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
点个在看吧😘。
Check it out.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
8名留学生讲述：“逃”回国内，我们太难了。
Eight foreign students told us: "Run" back to China, we are too difficult.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "燃财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "8名留学生讲述：“逃”回国内，我们太难了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "机票24小时提价16次，他们还是选择做“逃跑派”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
";。
;; & quot;
title: '5G换机潮，今年别想了',。
Not at least at & apos; & quot; & quot; 5 G; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '数据告诉你：股市暴跌，中国科技公司有多惨',。
The numbers tell you how AT & T & T & T & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '一周两次熔断，投资者还相信股市吗？',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
title: '7位华人讲述：美国、日本、伊朗、意大利……这样“战疫”',。
Seven Chinese told: America, Japan, Iran, Italy... & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp
subject_name: '燃财经',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & apos;
var title ="燃财经";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & finance & quot;
