普通人李文亮。
Ordinary Li Wenliang.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
他曾许过一个新年愿望，新的一岁希望能做一个简单的人，看得清世间繁杂却不在心中留下痕迹，保持足够的平常心。
He had made a New Year's wish, the new one year old hope to be a simple person, see the world but not in the heart left traces, keep enough ordinary heart.
他还说，不经审视的人生是不值得过的，希望大家都能实现自己的价值，共勉。
He also said that the unexamined life is not worth living, I hope that everyone can realize their own value, encouraging.
他的微信签名是，「理论是灰色的，生命之树常青」。
His signature was, "Theory is gray, the tree of life is evergreen."
文｜罗婷杨宙罗芊编辑｜糖槭1昨日夜里11点，《人物》记者赶到武汉中心医院后湖院区的住院楼时，李文亮的两位大学同学已经在那里等待了半个小时。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | Yesterday at 11 o'clock yesterday evening, People reporter went to the hospital building in the Houhu district of Wuhan Central Hospital, where two of Li Wenliang's college classmates had been waiting for half an hour.
他们也是武汉的医生，是受全班同学委托，来这里看他。
They are Wuhan's doctors, is entrusted by the entire class, come here to see him.
因为已经过了会客时间，住院楼入口处已经被拦起来，进不去了。
As it was past the reception time, the entrance to the hospital building had been barred from entering.
夜深了，这栋楼还很明亮，二层是正在抢救李文亮的ICU，再往上几层，住着他同样被感染的父母。
Late at night, the building is still very bright, the second floor is saving LiWenLiang ICU, and a few more floors, he is also infected parents.
同学担心他们，打电话给李文亮父亲，希望能上去陪着。
Worried about them, called Li Wenliang father, hope to go up to accompany.
但医院的工作人员正陪在他父亲身边，在电话里拒绝了这一请求。
However, the hospital staff, who were with his father, refused the request by telephone.
后来他们又与在外地的、怀着孕的李文亮妻子通话，她着急、担忧，但又不知道最新的信息。
Later they spoke to Li Wenliang's pregnant wife, who was out of town, worried and worried, but did not know the latest information.
他们告诉她：「有什么消息的话，一定会第一时间给你打电话。
They told her, "If you have any news, you will be called as soon as possible.
」武汉市中心医院大楼那时刚过零点，院方还在继续着对李文亮的抢救。
"Wuhan Central Hospital building was just past midnight, and the hospital continued to rescue Li Wenliang.
但有一位楼里的护士，穿得很单薄，独自下到一楼，大哭起来。
But a nurse in the building, dressed very thin, went down to the ground floor alone and began to cry.
先是靠着墙，后来又蹲在地上哭。
First against the wall, then on the ground to cry.
就算是站在十几米外，那哭声都清晰可闻，在深夜安静的医院里回荡。
Even when standing a dozen meters away, the crying could be heard clearly, echoing in the quiet hospital late at night.
同学谈到了李文亮的病情。
The classmate talked about Li Wenliang's illness.
李文亮曾在几天前接受媒体采访，看起来精神状态不错。
Li Wenliang was interviewed by the media a few days ago and appears to be in good shape.
但实际上，十多天来，李文亮一直都没有脱离过呼吸机。
But in fact, for more than a decade, Li Wenliang has not been out of the ventilator.
他的同学说，「这本来就是个很不好的预兆。
"It was a bad omen," his classmates said.
」昨天下午，李文亮从武汉中心医院南京路院区转到后湖院区，据这位同学说，原因是他已经需要用ECMO（体外肺循环）了，但是中心医院南京路院区没有——他们的所有设备全都被调到了金银潭医院。
Yesterday afternoon, Li Wenliang was transferred from the Nanjing Road courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital to the Houhu courtyard. According to the classmate, the reason was that he already needed ECMO, but there was no central hospital in the Nanjing Road courtyard - all their equipment was transferred to the gold and silver pool hospital.
而后湖院区还有一台，能救他的命。
And there's another one in Houhu that can save his life.
但网上也有另一种说法，说这台呼吸机，也是从另一家医院借的。
But there is another story on the Internet, saying that the machine was also borrowed from another hospital.
他的病情已经严重到了要用体外肺的地步了吗？这位同学说，「实际上，早就该用了。
Is his condition so serious that he needs an external lung? The student said, "Actually, it's long overdue."
」中心医院的医生吴岩在昨天深夜告诉《人物》，李文亮于昨日下午转院区后，状况很差，「不适合转，风险高。
Dr Ng Yan, a doctor at the Central Hospital, told People late yesterday evening that Li Wenliang was in poor condition after his transfer to the hospital yesterday afternoon.
晚上转过来了，不一会就呼吸衰竭气管插管，但是没有救过来，呼吸心跳停了，心外按压三个小时没有生命体征，但是还是上了ECMO，现在不让宣告死亡。
Night turned around, soon after respiratory failure trachea intubation, but no rescue, breathing cardiac arrest, outside the heart pressure for three hours no sign of life, but still on ECMO, now not to declare death.
」「我尽管知道他大约已经走了，但是我仍然盼望网上的传言是真的，ECMO能够创造奇迹。
"" I know he's probably gone, but I still hope the online rumors are true and ECMO can do wonders.
」今天凌晨00:43，该医生告诉《人物》。
"At 00: 43 this morning, the doctor told People.
「我学的东西告诉我基本不可能，但是我又总觉得可能有奇迹。
"I learned something that told me it was almost impossible, but I always thought there might be miracles.
」这位医生以自己的医学常识解释，「呼吸心跳停了3小时，正常是可以宣告临床死亡。
The doctor explained with his own common medical knowledge, "The heart rate has stopped for three hours and normal can be pronounced clinically dead.
但是我们搞了一台ECMO，维持循环。
But we've got an ECMO to keep the loop going.
」据财新报道，凌晨2点，抢救还在进行。
Rescue efforts were under way at 2 a.m., according to Caixin.
凌晨3点48分，武汉中心医院官微发出消息：我院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新型冠状病毒的疫情工作汇总不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世。
At 3: 48 a.m., officials of Wuhan Central Hospital issued a message: Our hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, in the fight against the new coronavirus epidemic aggregate the unfortunate infection, after all efforts to rescue, died on February 7, 2020 at 2.58 a.m.
三个小时的心外按压，至少三个小时的ECMO，没有创造奇迹。
Three hours of extracorporeal pressure, at least three hours of ECMO, did not work miracles.
在这之前，昨夜23:25分，世界卫生组织已经发布了一则推特：「我们为李文亮医生的离去感到深深的悲痛。
Earlier, at 23: 25 last night, the World Health Organization (WHO) had posted a tweet: "We are deeply saddened by the departure of Dr. Lee Man-liang.
我们所有人都应该赞美他就新型冠状病毒疫情所做的工作。
We should all pay tribute to his work on the new coronavirus epidemic.
」李文亮医生2李文亮的大学同学告诉《人物》，2019年12月30日下午，李文亮就是在他们的班级群里告知大家：「华南水果海鲜市场确诊了7例SARS，在我们医院后湖院区急诊科隔离。
Li Wenliang's college classmates told People that on the afternoon of December 30, 2019, Li Wenliang told People that he had confirmed seven cases of SARS in the South China Fruit and Seafood Market.
」过了半个小时，他还在补充：「最新消息是，冠状病毒感染确定了，正在进行病毒分型。
Half an hour later, he added: "The latest information is that the coronavirus infection has been confirmed and the virus is being typed.
让家人亲人注意防范。
Keep your family and loved ones on guard.
」同为医生，他们是相信李文亮的。
"As doctors, they believed in Li Wenliang.
他从业多年，判断不太可能出错。
After years in business, he is unlikely to make mistakes.
也正是因为李文亮的警示，他们从那时开始做防护，开始囤N95口罩，上班时也开始穿防护服。
Since then, thanks to warnings from Li Wenliang, they have been shielding themselves, starting to hoard N95 masks and starting to wear protective clothing while at work.
那时知道的人不多，所以口罩还很好买。
There were not many people known at that time, so the mask was still very easy to buy.
正是这一批物资在疫情爆发之初保护了一些医生，也在之后物资短缺之时解他们的燃眉之急。
It was this supply that protected some doctors at the beginning of the outbreak and also met their immediate needs in times of shortages.
李文亮被训诫后，同学们都知道了。
After Li Wenliang was lectured, his classmates all knew it.
他们更谨慎了，不再在微信上聊有关新型病毒的事情，但还是会口头传播，特别是很多80后的年轻医生，知道后都开始做防护。
They were more careful not to talk about the new virus in their microletters, but they still spread it verbally, especially to many young doctors after the 80s, who started taking precautions.
同学说，「所以他真的救了很多人。
"So he really saved a lot of people.
」在被训诫前，李文亮在医院里并不是个出名的医生。
"Before being lectured, Li Wenliang was not a famous doctor in the hospital.
另一个科室的年轻医生吴岩没怎么听说过他的名字，也从来没见过他。
Wu Yan, a young doctor from another department, had barely heard of his name and had never seen him.
「我只是因为他被谣言才知道的，当时他被训诫了，我们当时都为他不平，后来就听说他感染了……他一边被处分一边又感染了，家里的人也生病了。
"I only learned about it because of rumors that he was reprimanded, that we were all upset about him, and then we heard that he was infected... he was punished and infected, and the family got sick.
听说心理压力很大。
Heard about the stress.
后来他平反了我们都很开心。
And then he calmed us down and we were happy.
」他打心里佩服李文亮的勇气，「我只知道，他说了实话，说了很多人不敢说的话。
"He admired his courage." All I know is that he told the truth and said things that many people were afraid to say.
但是得到了并不相称的惩罚，身心受到了很大的创伤。
However, he received disproportionate punishment and suffered severe physical and psychological trauma.
」这一晚，医生吴岩的朋友圈里「被蜡烛刷屏了」。
"This evening, the doctor Wu Yan's friend circle" by the candle brush screen.
尽管在接受《人物》采访时，李文亮还未被宣告死亡，但其时他的心跳已经停了3个小时。
Although Li had not been pronounced dead at the time of the People interview, his heart had stopped for three hours.
吴岩说，「我们都知道，为李医生哀鸣，何尝不是为自己哀鸣。
"We all know that when we mourn for Dr. Lee, we do not mourn for ourselves," he said.
」凌晨1点，李文亮的大学同学还穿梭在四处被锁死的住院楼里，寻找可能还开着的通道。
At 1 a. m., Li's college classmates also shuttled through locked inpatient buildings looking for possible open passages.
他们希望能上到李文亮父母住院的楼层，至少看一眼他们，知道他们还好不好。
They wanted to go up to the floor where Li Wenliang's parents were hospitalized, or at least look at them and see if they were okay.
但尝试了两个小时，都没有成功。
But tried for two hours, did not succeed.
在寻找出口时，他们会经过一面面挂着武汉中心医院辉煌历史的墙，还有一面墙写着医院的院训：医院以救死扶伤为天职，所有生命的伤害、病痛、凋零每天都在上演，这些带给人们最有价值的启示就是敬畏与爱护。
As they search for an exit, they pass along the walls of Wuhan Central Hospital's glorious history. There is also a wall that says the hospital's vocation is to save lives, heal wounds, and wither every day. The most valuable revelation is awe and love.
敬畏生命就是要视患如亲，呵护患者生命健康，以人为本，对员工真心实意。
Fear of life is to see as close, care for the life and health of patients, people-oriented, sincere to employees.
李文亮的人人网头像3李文亮医生的微博记录下了他鲜活又普通的日常生活。
Li Wenliang's everyone net head is like 3 Dr. LiWenLiang's microblog recorded his vivid and ordinary daily life.
他很喜欢吃，时常调侃自己「食欲猛于虎」，想到要吃橘子，风雨大作穿着拖鞋跑1000米也要买来吃；看到冰淇淋店各式各样的冰淇淋，会感叹，「靠，诱惑太多」；居酒屋和海底捞都是他的爱，他说自己爱死芥末和生鱼片了。
He loved to eat, teasing himself that his appetite was stronger than the tiger, that he wanted to eat oranges, that he could run 1000 meters in his slippers, that he would buy ice cream in his ice cream parlours and lamented, "Damn it, tempt too much"; he loved the house and bottom fishing, he said he loved mustard and sashimi.
炸鸡也是他的爱，德克士的手枪鸡腿，每次去火车站他都会点，他这样描述那只鸡腿的美味——大大的鸡腿连着胯部，看着就好有满足感，外皮酥脆，肉质软嫩，配上独家的干碟，绝对是腿届极品！这时候再来一杯可乐，感觉人生已经达到了巅峰。
Fried chicken is his love, too, Dexter's Pistol Chicken leg, which he orders every time he goes to the railway station. He describes the delicious chicken leg - the big chicken leg with the crotch - as satisfying as looking, crisp and tender, complete with an exclusive dry plate.
他追剧，喜欢看《庆余年》，也追星，最近比较喜欢肖战，觉得肖战长得帅，唱《绿光》特别好听。
He likes to watch "Year after Year," also chasing stars, recently like Xiao battle, feel Xiao Zhan handsome, singing "green light" is particularly pleasant to hear.
车厘子158元一斤，他会调侃自己吃不起，买了几个橘子花了30块，就喊自己「屌丝」，感叹生活艰辛。
Che Li Tzu 158 yuan a catty, he will joke that he can not afford to eat, bought a few oranges spent 30 yuan, called themselves "silk," sigh that life is difficult.
他还很喜欢转发抽奖微博，抽手机的转发，抽车的转发，抽车厘子也转发，终于有一次，他没做中奖绝缘体，抽中了一盒湿巾，他专门发微博感谢了金主。
He also loved forwarding lottery tweets, tweets, tweets, the forwarding of a pump, and the tactile pull forward. Finally, he failed to do a prize insulator and won a box of wet towels. He posted a tweet to thank the owner.
做医生很辛苦，他时不时会抱怨一下工作，「累死小爷了」，虽然他时常把「不想干了」挂在嘴边，抱怨连值三天班，「要死」，「讨厌门诊」，盼着下班了去吃锅包肉，可真让他离开，他根本舍不得脱下身上那件白大褂，他内心的想法是，「病人虐我千百遍，我待病人如初恋」。
The doctor is very hard-working, he sometimes complains about his work, "tired out," even though he often says "I don't want to do" and complains about three days' worth of work, "dying," "hating the clinic," waiting to get away from work to eat pot roast.
翻看他的微博，你会觉得他有些可爱，这位眼科医生内心好像还住着一个小男孩，在社交网络上嬉笑怒骂，「尼玛」、「我去」、「靠」都挂在嘴边，他甚至会思考「鸡生蛋的时候会不会很痛苦」，见到一只蝴蝶，也要拍下来发在社交网络，配文：一只蝴蝶。
When you look at his microblog, you think he's cute. The ophthalmologist seems to have a little boy living in his heart, laughing and scolding on social networking sites. He even thinks, "Is it painful for a chicken to lay eggs?"
有空的时候，他也喜欢出去走走，看油菜花，打羽毛球，如果路上有人叫他「叔叔」，他会「气疯」，觉得自己「受伤了」，他还很喜欢恶作剧，住酒店退房的时候会把被子叠成里面有人的形状吓唬服务员。
In his spare time, he also likes to go out for a walk, watch rapeseed, play badminton, if someone calls him "uncle" on the road, he "gets mad" and thinks he is "hurt." He also loves practical jokes.
如果要问他最喜欢什么季节，那应该是秋天，他喜欢秋天的早晨，阳光穿过绿叶，在地上投下星星点点的影子。
If you ask him what season he likes best, it should be autumn. He likes autumn mornings when the sun shines through the green leaves and casts tiny shadows on the ground.
他曾这样形容武汉的秋天——它自有一股不热不冷的温柔，在这个季节里你能体会到最淅沥的细雨和最轻柔的风，当然你更能感受到落叶飘洒一地，踩上去咯吱咯吱响的美与心动。
He used to describe the autumn in Wuhan - it has a warm not cold gentle, in this season you can feel the drizzling rain and the most gentle wind, of course you can feel the leaves on the ground, step on the creaky beauty and heartbeat.
李文亮医生分享过自己和家人相处的温馨瞬间，天气很好，孩子和妻子就在身边，父母来看望他，离开的时候搭高铁，他会专门拍下他们乘坐的列车留念。
Dr. Lee shared his warm moments with his family. The weather was fine. The children and wife were with him. His parents came to see him.
他曾许过一个新年愿望，新的一岁希望能做一个简单的人，看得清世间繁杂却不在心中留下痕迹，保持足够的平常心。
He had made a New Year's wish, the new one year old hope to be a simple person, see the world but not in the heart left traces, keep enough ordinary heart.
他还说，不经审视的人生是不值得过的，希望大家都能实现自己的价值，共勉。
He also said that the unexamined life is not worth living, I hope that everyone can realize their own value, encouraging.
他的微信签名是，「理论是灰色的，生命之树常青」。
His signature was, "Theory is gray, the tree of life is evergreen."
李文亮的朋友圈封面但同时，他又是一个关心社会的人。
Li Wenliang's circle of friends cover but at the same time, he is a person who cares about the society.
他为在温州动车事故中敢言的主持人王青雷说话，要征集签名，让王青雷复职。
He spoke for Wang Qinglei, the host of the motor accident in Wenzhou, to collect signatures and reinstate Wang Qinglei.
2月1日，他接受了财新的采访。
On February 1, he was interviewed by Caixin.
就算已经被训诫过、自己和父母都被感染，但他还是勇敢地表达自己：「一个健康的社会不该只有一种声音。
Even though he was admonished and his parents infected, he said bravely, "A healthy society should not have one voice."
」同一天，他的核酸检测结果出来了，阳性。
"On the same day, his nucleic acid test results came out, positive.
他说：尘埃落定，终于确诊了，还配了一个狗狗的表情。
He said: the dust settled, finally diagnosed, but also with a dog's expression.
他在病房里看到许多网友的鼓励，在微博上感谢大家，「谢谢大家的支持，我没有被吊销执照，请大家放心，我一定积极配合治疗，争取早日出院」。
"Thank you for your support, I have not been revoked license, please rest assured that I will actively cooperate with the treatment for early discharge from hospital."
再之前，工作群里号召医生们报名到防疫一线时，他还说了一句：「我好了也报名」。
Before that, when doctors were called upon to sign up for the vaccination campaign, he said, "I'm ready to sign up."
在网上流传的另一张图里，有人在微信里问他：您病好以后，有什么打算？他说：好了就上一线，疫情还在扩散，不想当逃兵。
In another picture circulated on the Internet, someone asked him in a letter: What are you going to do when you get well? He said: All right, just on the front line, the epidemic is still spreading and does not want to become a deserter.
图源公众号咋整（应采访对象要求，吴岩为化名）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Picture public number how neat (at the request of the interviewee, Wu Yan for alias) did not see enough? Long two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-letter number more wonderful stories are waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
普通人李文亮。
Ordinary Li Wenliang.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "普通人李文亮";。
var msg _ title = & quot; ordinary Ri Wenliang;;;
var msg_desc = "「所以他真的救了很多人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "So he really saved many lives.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
