​医生李文亮和他眷恋的城。
The doctor Li Wenliang and the city he loves.
汤禹成 王伟凯。
Stuart Stuart Wang Wai-kai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
武汉中心医院眼科医生李文亮（1986-2020）（资料图/图）全文共5612字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
Wuhan Central Hospital Ophthalmologist Li Wenliang (1986-2020) (Chart / Chart) Full text 5612 words, reading about 14 minutes.
李文亮还活着吗？李文亮抢救过来了吗？这位武汉眼科医生的命运，在这个深夜牵动着很多人的心。
Is Li Wenliang still alive? Has Li Wenliang rescued him? The fate of the Wuhan ophthalmologist has touched the hearts of many people this late at night.
直到凌晨3:48，武汉市中心医院官微再次发布消息，死讯才最终确证。
Until 3: 48 a.m., Wuhan City Central Hospital officials micro-release information, the death of the final confirmation.
那天，他用文字回复南方周末记者，“我们明天聊吧，今天我有点扛不住了，谢谢理解……”语气谦和、温柔。
That day, he wrote back to Southern Weekend reporter, "Let's talk tomorrow, today I can not carry a bit, thank you for understanding..."
如果当时人们听从了他的声音，这一年的打开方式也许不会如此艰难。
If people had listened to him, it might not have been such a difficult year.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汤禹成 王伟凯南方周末实习生 向思琦 任淼琳责任编辑 | 吴筱羽 张玥2020年2月7日凌晨2:58，李文亮在所有意义上，彻底离开人间。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce the work of South Weekend reporter Tang Yucheng Wang Weike, a weekend intern who has been meeting with Siqi Managing Director and Mr. Wu Xiaoyu, who left the world at 2: 58 a.m. on February 7, 2020.
李文亮是最早将疫情消息传出并被警方约谈训诫的医生之一，被媒体称为2020年武汉新冠肺炎的“吹哨人”。
Li Wenliang was one of the first doctors to spread word of the outbreak and was interviewed by the police as the "whistle-blower" of Wuhan's 2020 new crown pneumonia.
此前接受媒体采访时，他数次提及，等自己病好了还要上一线，“不想当逃兵”。
In a previous interview with the media, he mentioned several times that when he recovered from his illness he had to step up to the front line and "don't want to be a deserter."
李文亮不愿当这座城市的逃兵。
Li Wenliang didn't want to be a deserter from the city.
外界最早得知新冠肺炎的信息，便是来自他在微信群里的发言，尽管那次发言给他带来了“麻烦”，而他的提醒，本意只是提醒身边的医生们注意安全。
The first information about pneumonia came from his microphone message, which, despite the "trouble" it caused him, was intended as a reminder of the safety of doctors around him.
有人称他为英雄，但他更多只是个普通人。
Some people call him a hero, but he's more of an ordinary person.
他在武汉生活的时间加起来将近13年，形容自己“对那座城市充满着依恋”，他的社交媒体还原出一个普通武汉市民幸福的生活。
He spent nearly 13 years in Wuhan, describing himself as "obsessed with the city," and his social media restored a happy life for ordinary Wuhan residents.
最终，这位眼科医生、生活中活泼幽默的东北年轻人，也将生命留在这座自己依恋的城市。
In the end, the ophthalmologist, the lively and humorous young man of the Northeast, also left his life in this city of his own attachment.
2月6日深夜11点，南方周末记者赶往武汉市中心医院，这里是医院的住院部门口。
February 6 midnight, Southern Weekend reporter rushed to Wuhan City Central Hospital, which is the hospital entrance.
1心脏停跳后的6个小时李文亮去世的消息在2月6日22:00后陆续传出，指他在21:30去世。
The news of Li Wenliang's death six hours after the cardiac arrest came after 2200 hours on February 6, saying he had died at 21: 30.
但随后，几位疑似李文亮同事的知情人在微博称，李文亮并未去世，而是心脏停跳，正使用人工肺（ecmo）进行抢救。
But then, according to Weibo, people close to colleagues suspected of Li Wenliang said Li had not died, but that his heart had stopped beating and was being treated with artificial lungs (ecmo).
尽管如此，关于李文亮去世的消息仍在社交媒体上迅速发酵。
Still, news of Mr. Li's death is fermenting rapidly on social media.
有人不愿相信，有人已开始悼念。
Some do not want to believe that mourning has begun.
多家机构媒体在微博平台称，已证实李文亮于当晚21:30许抢救无效去世。
A number of institutional media on the Weibo platform said that it has been confirmed that Li Wenliang on the night of 21: 30 rescue dead.
23:25，世界卫生组织在推特上发文称：“我们对李文亮医生的逝世深感难过，我们都应该赞扬他在抗击新型冠状病毒上所做的工作。
"We are deeply saddened by the death of Dr Liang Wenliang and we should all commend him for his work in fighting the new coronavirus," the World Health Organisation said on Twitter.
”23:40左右，有疑似为李文亮朋友的微博博主称李文亮于22:57去世，而非90分钟前。
Around 23: 40, a microblogger suspected of being a friend of Li Wenliang said Li Wenliang died at 22: 57 instead of 90 minutes ago.
疑为其同院同事的朋友圈称，自己听说消息后，匆忙换上防护服赶到呼吸科ICU，只看到一具苍白的身体，心外的按压机还在不停地敲打着。
Suspected colleagues in the hospital said they heard the news, hastily put on protective clothing rushed to the respiratory ICU, only to see a pale body, the outside of the press is still beating.
2月7日凌晨00:38，武汉市中心医院官方微博终于发布消息称：“在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情中，我院眼科医生李文亮不幸感染，目前病危，正在全力抢救中。
"In the fight against the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, our ophthalmologist Li Wenliang has been infected with the disease and is now in full resuscitation," an official microblog of Wuhan Central Hospital said on Feb. 7
”李文亮还活着吗？李文亮抢救过来了吗？这位眼科医生的命运，在这个深夜牵动着很多人的心。
Is Li Wenliang still alive? Has Li Wenliang been rescued? The fate of the ophthalmologist has touched many people's hearts in the middle of the night.
在得到最终确认前，“已去世”“还在抢救”的消息交替出现，难辨真假。
Before the final confirmation, the "dead" "still in the rescue" message alternately, difficult to distinguish true from false.
几乎每条称“去世”的微博下都有许多人在哀悼，或是求辟谣，每条“还在抢救”的消息则引来一片祈祷。
Almost every microblog called "dead" has many mourners, or rumors, and every "still alive" message elicits a prayer.
直到凌晨3:48，武汉市中心医院官微再次发布消息，死讯才最终确证。
Until 3: 48 a.m., Wuhan City Central Hospital officials micro-release information, the death of the final confirmation.
李文亮走得突然，从确诊到离开，仅5天时间。
Li Wenliang walked suddenly, from the diagnosis to leave, only five days.
2月6日23:00，南方周末记者在武汉市中心医院采访时，几位负责分诊的医生还一脸诧异地反问：李医生病危了？而一位医生当时对南方周末记者透露：情况不是很好，但还在抢救中。
At 2300 hours February 6, Southern Weekend reporter interviewed in Wuhan city central hospital, several doctors in charge of the medical treatment also surprised to ask: Dr. Li is critically ill, and a doctor told Southern Weekend reporter that the situation is not very good, but is still being rescued.
另一位不愿具名的医生告诉南方周末记者：“肾上腺素加气管插管，按了2个小时。
"Adrenaline plus tracheal intubation," another doctor, who declined to be named, told Southern Weekend reporter.
”李文亮的一位同事兼好友在这段时间守候在了重症监护室的门口。
A colleague and friend of Li's was at the door of the intensive care unit during this time.
据这位同事讲述，2月6日上午，她还与李文亮通过电话，李文亮告诉她，自己的情况不是很好，胸闷、喘不过气来。
On the morning of February 6, she spoke to Li Wenliang on the phone. He told her that her condition was not very good and that she was stuffy and out of breath.
但她自始至终，都没有想到李文亮走得会这么快。
But from beginning to end, she never thought that Li Wenliang would walk so fast.
1月底的一个夜晚，南方周末记者曾找到已在重症病房里的李文亮。
One night in late January, Southern Weekend reporter found Li Wenliang in the intensive care unit.
他的头像是漫画蜡笔小新一家四口，他已有一儿，妻子正怀着二胎，头像仿佛是他对自己未来生活的描绘。
His head is a cartoon crayon small new family of four people, he is already a son, his wife is pregnant with two children, as if the portrait of his own future life.
南方周末记者在微信上提出采访请求，并再三强调，“这个消息您不用着急回，等有余力了再回复就好。
Southern Weekend reporter in the micro-letter request for an interview, and repeatedly stressed, "this news you do not have to worry back, until there is spare capacity to recover.
”但十分钟左右，李文亮就回复了。
But about ten minutes later, Li Wenliang replied.
这一天，他接受了几家媒体采访，由于呼吸困难，只能打字回复。
On that day, he was interviewed by several media outlets and had to type back due to breathing difficulties.
他告诉南方周末记者：“我们明天聊吧，今天我有点扛不住了，谢谢理解……”语气谦和、温柔。
He told Southern Weekend reporter: "Let's talk tomorrow, today I can not carry a little, thank you for understanding..."
次日，南方周末记者又对他说，“我们想找一个慢慢聊的机会，等您恢复了也可以，不用着急。
The next day Southern Weekend reporter told him again, "We want to find a chance to talk slowly.
”那一天之后，他再也没有回复了。
"After that day he did not reply.
那天是2月1日，他确诊新冠肺炎感染的日子。
It was February 1, the day he was diagnosed with pneumonia.
距1月10日发病出现咳嗽症状，李文亮人生中最后的时光持续了28天。
Before the onset of January 10 cough symptoms, Li Wenliang's last days of life lasted 28 days.
2月6日深夜11点，南方周末记者赶往武汉市中心医院，这里是医院的急诊门口，往日里患者都是从这里前来看病治疗。
February 6 at 11 p.m., Southern Weekend reporter rushed to Wuhan City Central Hospital, which is the hospital emergency door, where patients used to come to see treatment.
2被训诫后的“沉默”炭烤猪颈肉，泰式酸甜鸡，炒空心菜，煎鱼丸。
2 After the admonition of "silent" roast pig neck meat, Thai sweet and sour chicken, fried cabbage, fried fish balls.
这是眼科医生李文亮2019年的最后一顿晚饭。
This is the last dinner of ophthalmologist Li Wenliang 2019.
他将这四道菜，每道拍了一张照片，晒在朋友圈。
He took a picture of each of the four courses and hung them in his circle of friends.
其实，那一天他经历波澜，但在朋友圈里，他还是平日那个欢快的他，未曾预料到自己人生将走向另一个方向。
In fact, that day he experienced waves, but in the circle of friends, he is the usual cheerful he did not expect his life will go in another direction.
此前一天，2019年12月30日，他在和同事交流时得知，他所在的武汉市中心医院收治了7例不明原因的肺炎病人。
The day before, on December 30, 2019, he was talking to colleagues and learned that his Wuhan Central Hospital had treated seven patients with unexplained pneumonia.
病人的检测报告，显示检出SARS冠状病毒高置信度阳性指标。
The patient's test report showed that the coronavirus detected in SARS coronavirus positive indicators.
为了提醒同为临床医生的同学注意防护，当天17:43，他在同学群里发出了“华南水果海鲜市场确诊了7例SARS”的信息，后附一张检测报告、一张患者肺部CT图。
To remind his fellow clinicians to guard against SARS, at 17: 43 he sent a message to his classmate, "Seven Cases of SARS Confirmed in the South China Fruit and Seafood Market," with a test report and a CT scan of the patient's lungs.
后来他又补充，“最新消息是冠状病毒感染确定了，正在进行病毒分型”。
Later, he added, "The latest news is that the coronavirus infection has been confirmed and the virus is being typed."
他也解释了什么是冠状病毒。
He also explained what this coronavirus is.
尽管李文亮提醒不要外传，但不久后，微信发言还是被人截图传出。
Although Li Wenliang warned not to spread, but before long, the message was still cut out to spread.
据北京青年报的报道，12月31日凌晨1:30，武汉市卫健委连夜开会，李文亮医院的院领导、医务室主任都参加了那场会议。
According to the Beijing Youth Daily, on December 31, at 1: 30 a.m., Wuhan city health committee held a night meeting, Li Wenliang Hospital's hospital leadership, the director of the clinic attended the meeting.
李文亮也被叫到卫健委，院领导会议结束后，询问了他关于消息来源的问题。
Li Wenliang was also called to health care committee, hospital leaders after the end of the meeting, asked him about the source of questions.
天亮上班后，他又被叫到医院监察科，询问事情经过及是否认识到错误，还写下一份不实消息外传的反思与自我批评。
After daybreak, he was called to the hospital inspection office to ask what had happened and whether he had realized the mistake, and to write down a self-criticism and introspection of false information.
医院也说过会有处罚。
The hospital said there would be a penalty.
当时他应该是有心理压力的。
He was supposed to be under psychological pressure.
但他依然以积极面目示人。
But he still looks positive.
又过了一天，2020年1月1日清晨，他发朋友圈时配了张天蒙蒙亮的图片，说“新的一年，勤奋的我已经出发啦”。
Another day, in the early morning hours of January 1, 2020, he sent out pictures of Zhang Tianliang in his circle of friends, saying, "The new year, the diligent I have set out."
那一天，武汉警方发布了一则通告：一些网民在不经核实的情况下，在网络上发布、转发不实信息，造成不良社会影响。
On that day, Wuhan police issued a notice: some netizens in the network without verification, the dissemination of false information, resulting in adverse social impact.
公安机关经调查核实，已传唤8名违法人员，并依法进行处理。
After an investigation, the public security organs verified that 8 illegal personnel had been summoned and dealt with according to law.
后来，人们习惯于将李文亮和这8人联系在一起，但从时间上看，李文亮或许并非8人之一。
Later, people used to associate Li Wenliang with these eight people, but in terms of time, Li Wenliang may not be one of the eight.
对于这一点，连他自己后来接受采访时也无法确认。
This could not be confirmed even in his own subsequent interviews.
1月2日的他也依然没有流露任何负面情绪。
On January 2, he still showed no negative feelings.
他转发了一条有关B站跨年晚会的朋友圈，配上文字说“一大早看的好兴奋，这才是我们中年人该看的晚会”。
He forwarded a circle of friends about the New Year's Eve party at Station B, with the words, "Good morning, this is the party for us middle-aged people."
他是再过了一天之后被辖区派出所叫去签训诫书的。
A day later he was summoned to sign the sermon by the police station in the district.
训诫书上有一个提问：“我们希望你冷静下来好好反思，并郑重告诫你：如果你固执己见，不思悔改，继续进行违法活动，你将会受到法律的制裁！你明白了吗？”“明白。
There is a question in the sermon: We want you to calm down and reflect, and solemnly admonish you that if you persist, do not repent and continue your illegal activities, you will be punished by the law! Do you understand?
”李文亮写道。
Li Wenliang wrote.
实质的处罚并没到来，他如常工作了几日。
The actual punishment did not come, and he worked as usual for several days.
1月10日，他接收一名后被确诊为新冠肺炎的82岁病人后两天，开始咳嗽。
On January 10, he began coughing two days after receiving an 82-year-old patient later diagnosed with pneumonia.
第二天，开始发烧，最高38.2度，做了CT，显示双肺多发感染，磨玻璃样病变；那天晚上，他没有回家，自我隔离住在了酒店。
The next day, he developed a fever of up to 38.2 degrees, made a CT scan showing multiple lung infections and grinding glass-like lesions; that night, he did not return home and lived in isolation in a hotel.
1月12日，他住进科室病房，2天后转到呼吸科隔离病房。
On 12 January, he was admitted to the section ward and two days later to the respiratory isolation ward.
1月24日，李文亮躺在武汉市中心医院呼吸与重症医学科监护室里，终于做了核酸检测。
On January 24, Li Wenliang lay in the central hospital of Wuhan City breathing and intensive care unit, and finally did a nucleic acid test.
等待结果的日子里，每一天，他都用手机和在外地娘家的妻子和5岁孩子视频。
Waiting for the result, every day, he used mobile phones and videos of his wife and 5-year-old children in the home of a distant mother.
生活起居都需要医护人员照料，吃喝、大小便都在床上进行，护士每天都会给他擦脸、擦身体。
Every day, the nurse wipes his face and body. The nurse wipes his face and body.
直到2月1日，此前一天的第三次核酸检测有了结果：阳性。
Until February 1, the day before the third nucleic acid test results: positive.
10:41，李文亮的个人微博发布消息称，“今天核酸检测结果阳性，尘埃落定，终于确诊了”。
At 10: 41, Li Wenliang's personal microblog announced, "Today the nucleic acid test results are positive, the dust settled, finally confirmed."
能看出接受派出所问询后他心情的变化。
I can see the change in his mood after being questioned at the police station.
由于心理压力大，这事他一直没告诉家人，害怕他们担心受到医院处罚。
As a result of psychological pressure, he never told his family, fearing that they would be punished by the hospital.
原本发朋友圈频密的李文亮，1月2日后，长时间没有发朋友圈。
Originally hair friend circle frequent Liang Wenliang, January 2 after a long time did not send friends circle.
此后的最后一条，应该是1月25日那天，他发了一张武汉市中心医院募捐物资的海报。
The last item, which was supposed to be on January 25, was a poster of a fund-raiser at Wuhan Central Hospital.
2月7日凌晨，南方周末记者来到位于武汉市江岸区南京路的武汉市中心医院南京路院区，李文亮医生曾在这里接受治疗。
In the early morning of February 7, Southern Weekend reporter came to the Nanjing Road Hospital, the central hospital of Wuhan City, located on Nanjing Road, Jiangan District of Wuhan.
3“对这座城市充满依恋”他是武汉这座城市的“吹哨人”。
He is the "whistle-blower" of the city of Wuhan.
在同学群，他的警示起了作用。
In the schoolmates group, his warning played a role.
《人物》杂志的报道里说，正是因为李文亮的警示，他的同学们从那时开始做防护，开始囤N95口罩，上班时也开始穿防护服。
As a result of the warning, his classmates began to take precautions, according to People magazine, starting to hoist N95 masks and wearing protective clothing for work, according to People.
那时知道的人不多，所以口罩还很好买。
There were not many people known at that time, so the mask was still very easy to buy.
也正是这一批物资，在疫情暴发之初保护了一些医生，也在之后物资短缺时解他们的燃眉之急。
It was this same supply that protected some doctors at the beginning of the outbreak and also provided immediate relief in case of shortages.
武汉市中心医院里一位年轻的医生向南方周末记者表示，他也是在被媒体报道之后，才知道李文亮这个人，他把李文亮当做是敢于说真话的英雄。
A young doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital told Southern Weekend that it was only after being reported by the media that he learned that Li Wenliang was a hero who dared to tell the truth.
更广泛的层面，他的提醒，几乎是所有局外人最初知道此次疫情的线索。
On a broader level, his reminder was the first clue that almost all outsiders knew about the outbreak.
他提醒同班同学的第二天，武汉市卫健委发布关于此次肺炎疫情的首份通报。
He reminded his classmates the next day, Wuhan city health committee issued the first report on the outbreak of pneumonia.
通报显示，截至当时，已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重，其余病例病情稳定可控，有2例病情好转拟于近期出院。
According to the circular, 27 cases had been detected to date, of which 7 were serious, the remainder were stable and manageable, and 2 were expected to be discharged shortly.
同时，对华南海鲜市场的卫生学调查和环境卫生处置正在进行中。
Meanwhile, a sanitary survey and disposal of the South China seafood market is under way.
这个东北年轻人是武大毕业的医学生，在他留下的记录中，人们能轻易读到他对武汉这座城市的眷恋。
This young man of northeast China is a medical student who graduated from Wu University. His love for Wuhan can be easily read in his record.
这所以人文见长的院校似乎在他身上留下痕迹。
So the humanistic colleges seem to have left their mark on him.
2019年生日那天，他在微博写下，“武汉的秋天自有一股不热不冷的温柔，在这个季节里你能体会到最淅沥的细雨和最轻柔的风，当然你更能感受到落叶飘洒一地，踩上去咯吱咯吱响的美与心动。
On his 2019 birthday, he wrote on his microblog: "Wuhan autumn has a gentle not warm, not cold, in this season you can feel the drizzling rain and the most gentle wind, of course you can feel the falling leaves on the ground, step on the creaky beauty and heartbeat.
”这是典型的李文亮的文风，一种理科生尽情挥洒文字的可爱。
"This is the typical style of Li Wenliang, a kind of science students enjoy writing lovely.
他似乎钟爱武汉的秋天，朋友圈里也多次提及。
He seems to love the autumn of Wuhan, friends also mentioned many times.
2019年11月17日，他发了一张雨后街道的照片，街上铺满昏黄的落叶，他感叹了一句，“对于一个北方大汉来说，武汉的秋天终于来了。
On 17 November 2019, he sent out a photograph of the street after the rain, strewn with yellow leaves, sighing, "For a big man in the north, the fall of Wuhan has finally come.
”8天后，他又说：“感觉秋天还没怎么过，就一夜入冬了。
"Eight days later, he added," I feel like I haven't had much time in the fall, so I'm going to winter overnight.
”配图里，依然是萧萧的落叶。
With the map, is still the rustling leaves.
他是一个普通的武汉市民。
He is an ordinary citizen of Wuhan.
在这里，他有个幸福的家庭。
He has a happy family here.
虽然在微博上，他鲜少发自己妻儿的照片，但朋友圈里常晒。
Although on Weibo, he rarely sends pictures of his wife and children, but friends often bask in the sun.
他记录自己儿子玩赛车的样子，也拍下孩子看书的场景，他找各种角度，有时候会俯下身子拍儿子。
He recorded the way his son was playing in a car, and he also took pictures of children reading books. He looked for different angles and would sometimes lean down and pat his son.
他还喜欢晒自己与妻子的恩爱，“我想和你互相浪费，一起虚度短的沉默，长的无意义，一起消磨精致而苍老的宇宙”。
He also likes to bask in his love for his wife. "I want to waste with you, a short silence, a long meaningless, together to wear out the delicate old universe."
一种典型的理科生的浪漫。
A typical science student's romance.
和李文亮一样，妻子也是眼科医生，在另一家医院。
Like Li Wenliang, his wife is an ophthalmologist in another hospital.
李文亮偶尔和儿子一起去医院接妻子下班，有一次，李文亮的朋友圈定位妻子的那家医院，配上车里儿子的图片，说：“家里的男人们都来了，真羡慕幸福的X老师啊。
Li Wenliang occasionally went to the hospital with his son to pick up his wife from work. Once, Li Wenliang's friends located the hospital where his wife was staying.
”他的父母也生活在武汉。
His parents, too, lived in Wuhan.
妻子上夜班时，李文亮只能回爸妈家讨饭吃。
When his wife is on night shift, Li Wenliang can only go back to his parents home to beg for food.
2019年12月10日那天，他和很多时候一样，分享了自己的饮食，有照片，也有生动的文字叙述。
On December 10, 2019, as on many occasions, he shared his diet, with photos and vivid narratives.
“晚上吃的氽丸子，红烧虹鳟鱼，炒虾仁，盐水鸭。
"Grain for a short time at night, roasted rainbow trout, fried shrimp, salt and duck.
”盐水鸭是父亲从南京玩的时候带回的，他小时候记得盐水鸭齁咸，所以不爱吃，多年之后，居然味道刚刚好。
Salt water ducks were brought back by his father when he was playing in Nanjing. He remembered as a child that salty ducks were much too salty, so they didn't like to eat them.
在他感染新冠肺炎后不久，他的父母也出现了发热症状，肺部CT呈现“磨玻璃样病变”，被诊断为疑似病例。
Shortly after he contracted pneumonia, his parents also developed febrile symptoms, and the pulmonary CT showed "grinding glass-like lesions," which were diagnosed as a suspected case.
据不同信息源透露，他们如今已出院。
According to different sources, they are now discharged from the hospital.
偶尔，他的朋友圈定位在湖北另一个城市。
Occasionally, his circle of friends was located in another city in Hubei Province.
那是他妻子的娘家。
That's his wife's mother's house.
接受新京报采访时，李文亮说，现下妻子带着孩子在丈母娘家生活。
In an interview with the Beijing News, Li Wenliang said his wife is now living with her children at her mother-in-law's home.
有一位自言和李文亮相熟的医生在微信中表示，打电话给了李文亮妻子确认，妻子正和孩子待在娘家，“情况还好，没有住院”。
In a letter, a doctor who claimed to be familiar with Li Wen-wen said he had called his wife to confirm that she was staying with her children.
妻子得到的最后消息是，李文亮转到了武汉市中心医院后湖院区，上了ecmo抢救。
The final news for his wife was that Li Wenliang was transferred to the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan city central hospital, where he was rescued by ecmo.
他在武汉生活的时间加起来将近13年。
The total time he spent in Wuhan was nearly 13 years.
据财新此前报道，李文亮在武大读书7年，毕业后在厦门工作了3年。
According to Caixin, Li Wenliang studied in Wu University for 7 years and worked in Xiamen for 3 years after graduation.
2013年年底一条长长的微博里，他流露了对武汉的惦念。
At the end of 2013 a long Weibo, he expressed his thoughts on Wuhan.
他在锤子便签写道：“你一度认为那座城市与你似乎已缘尽情了。
He wrote in his hammer note: "You used to think that the city seemed to be destined for you.
你偶然还想起那座城市，但心中总有些不踏实。
You happen to think of that city, but there's always something wrong with it.
每当想起那座城市，一种莫名的情绪总在不知不觉中滋生蔓延。
Every time I think of that city, a kind of inexplicable emotion always breeds and spreads unconsciously.
你怯于回忆那座城市。
You are shy of remembering the city.
你有点下意识地想避开那座城市的一切……然而，忽然有一天你意外地发现仍有一个微弱的声音并未被淹没，原来那座城市一直未曾离去，那座城市一直停留在你的记忆深处，原来，你从未曾真正离开过那座城市，尽管你甚至不想在（再）提及那座城市，但是，你却不能否认你对那座城市仍然充满着依恋。
You were a little subconsciously trying to avoid everything about the city... and then one day you suddenly realized that there was still a faint voice undrowned, that the city had never gone, that you had never really left the city, and even though you didn't even want to mention it, you couldn't deny your attachment to the city.
”很快，李文亮在2014年如愿调回自己依恋的武汉，在武汉市中心医院工作至今。
Soon, in 2014, Li Wenliang returned to Wuhan, where he still lives, to work in Wuhan city's central hospital.
这应该是符合他期待的选择。
This should be a choice that meets his expectations.
4一个普通人2019年10月12日，是李文亮此生度过的最后一个生日。
An Ordinary Person October 12, 2019, is Li Wenliang's last birthday in this life.
好像是因为在微博更易抒情，那一天，他没在朋友圈发有关生日的消息，却在微博发了一段纪念生日的话。
It was as if, on the more lyrical occasion of Weibo, he did not post birthday news in a circle of friends, but instead posted a birthday message on Weibo.
那段话末尾，他许下一个愿望：“新的一岁希望能做一个简单的人，看得清世间繁杂却不在心中留下痕迹，保持足够的平常心。
At the end of the sentence, he made a wish: "The new year hopes to be a simple person, to see the world but not to leave traces in the heart, to keep enough of the ordinary heart.
”这条微博还介绍了他那天的行踪。
The post also covered his whereabouts that day.
中午，他去做了按摩，那阵子颈椎病特别困扰他，10月10日的朋友圈里，他也说自己在按摩。
At noon, he went for a massage. Cervical spondylosis particularly bothered him, and he said he was massaging his friends on Oct. 10.
生日那天按摩之后，他觉得舒服多了，“感觉困扰多日的颈椎病终于要滚蛋了”。
After his birthday massage, he felt much better. "The cervical spondylosis that had been bothering him for days was finally over."
这条微博下面，配了一张外卖的截图，那天晚上他吃了心心念念的炸鸡腿。
Beneath this tweet, he had a takeaway shot, and that night he had his mind-set fried chicken legs.
他是个不折不扣的“吃货”。
He is a real "food" man.
他在微博里关注了陈晓卿，美食纪录片《舌尖上的中国》的导演。
In Weibo, he followed Chen Xiaoqing, director of the food documentary "China on the tip of the tongue."
在他的朋友圈里，他也用很大的篇幅来描绘自己的箪食瓢饮。
In his circle of friends, he also spent a lot of space to refereed to eat.
他遗憾附近那家好吃的粥摊今天不营业，会分享在超市里买到的好吃的食物，还会点评各种美食。
He regretted that the delicious porridge stand nearby was closed today and would share the delicious food he had bought in the supermarket, as well as order various delicacies.
他也关注电脑、手机等各种电子产品。
He also focuses on computers, mobile phones and other electronic products.
李文亮表达欲旺盛，朋友圈里装的都是对生活的热爱。
Li Wenliang expressed his desire to exuberant, friends in the circle are filled with love for life.
虽然快34岁，原本即将成为两个孩子的父亲，但是他身上时常有着大男孩的气质，时常流露幽默。
Although nearly 34 years old, the father of two children, he often has a boyish temperament and is often humorous.
他常逛虎扑，有一次，他看到一条帖子里大家特别认真地在讨论，吴彦祖的颜、詹姆斯的身体和一千万，你选择哪个？他也跟着仔细思考了起来。
He used to roam about tigers, and once he saw a post where people were discussing seriously, "Yan Zu's face, James's body and 10 million, which one do you choose?" He thought carefully.
他说自己纠结了半天，最后觉得还是要选一千万。
He said he had been wrestling with it for a long time and finally decided to pick 10 million.
他把这段心理活动也发在了朋友圈。
He also sent this piece of psychological activity to friends.
2019年11月的一天，他在朋友圈和微博里同时放了六张当红小生肖战的照片，配上相同的文字说：“肖战也太帅了吧，绿光好听，唱的作为一个男人我竟然有点喜欢绿色……”常常有这些让人“忍俊不禁”的文字。
One day in November 2019, he took six photos of him playing the red zodiac at the same time in a circle of friends and micro-bloggers, with the same words: "Xiao battle is so handsome, green light, singing as a man I actually like green..."
更早之前，9月的某一天，他在电子秤上称体重。
Earlier, one day in September, he weighed himself on a scale.
秤上显示的应该是83.7kg，但他用左脚大拇指挡住了8的一边，电子秤上显示的便是33.7kg。
The scale was supposed to show 83.7 kg, but he blocked one side of it with his left thumb. The scale showed 33.7 kg.
他一本正经地配上文字，“真是不能再瘦下去了”。
"I can't get any thinner any more," he said solemnly.
有人称他为英雄，但他其实更多只是个普通人。
Some call him a hero, but he is more of an ordinary person.
接受财新采访时，李文亮说，报考武汉大学临床医学七年制专业，是因为想要“比较稳定的专业”。
In an interview with Caixin, Li Wenliang said that he had applied for the seven-year course of clinical medicine at Wuhan University because he wanted a "more stable specialty."
有网友留言，“请在一个普通人的意义上悼念李医生，因为我们任何一个普通人，都可能重蹈他的悲剧。
Some netizens leave a message, "Please mourn Dr. Lee in the sense of an ordinary person, because any of us ordinary people, can repeat his tragedy.
如果只是说了一句正常的话而称为英雄，那么这个世界就全是谎言。
The world is nothing but a lie if you call it a hero after a normal sentence.
”正因为普通才可贵。
"" It is common sense that counts.
他只是在他以为安全的环境中讲述他所知的事实，他只是诚挚地发出他的声音，提醒身边的人注意安全。
He only told what he knew in what he thought was a safe environment. He just made a sincere voice to remind everyone around him to be safe.
如果当时人们听从了他的声音，这一年的打开方式也许不会如此艰难。
If people had listened to him, it might not have been such a difficult year.
根据卫健委公布的数据，截至2020年2月7日11:00，武汉确诊新冠肺炎病例11618例，治愈476人，死亡478人。
As of 11: 00 on February 7, 2020, Wuhan had confirmed 11,618 cases of new crown pneumonia, cured 476 people and killed 478 people, according to figures released by the Health Commission.
2020年1月29日，距武汉首例新冠肺炎发病（据《柳叶刀》医学期刊）60天后，钟南山院士在新华社的镜头前含泪哽咽说，武汉是能够过关的，武汉本来就是一个很英雄的城市。
Wuhan was originally a very heroic city, said Zhongnanshan academician sobbing in front of Xinhua News Agency on January 29, 2020, 60 days after Wuhan's first case of pneumonia (according to The Lancet medical journal).
出于对这座城市的依恋，一个东北小伙子去了又返，六年后，以身殉城。
Out of his attachment to the city, a young man from the Northeast went back and died six years later.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​医生李文亮和他眷恋的城。
The doctor Li Wenliang and the city he loves.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "​医生李文亮和他眷恋的城";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese doctor Li Wenliang and his beloved city and quot;;
var msg_desc = "他是武汉这座城市的“吹哨人”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he was a "whistler" at Wuhan, the city.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
