美式紧急状态有多大含金量？。
How much gold does an American state of emergency contain?
宋劲松。
Song Jingsong.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
目前美国有30个州和华盛顿特区已宣布进入紧急状态，美国各州都有紧急状态储备金，在州长宣布紧急状态后即可动用该笔基金采取抗疫措施文|宋劲松特朗普于3月13日下午宣布美国进入应对新冠肺炎紧急状态，联邦政府将启动500亿美元的紧急资金储备，用于各州医疗机构应对新冠肺炎疫情，同时要求各州尽快建立应对新冠肺炎的应急指挥中心。
Thirty states and Washington, D.C., have declared a state of emergency. All U.S. states have emergency reserves that can be used to combat the state of emergency. When the governor declares a state of emergency, the federal government will activate $50 billion in emergency funds for state-run hospitals to respond to the outbreak.
特朗普宣布美国进入紧急状态其政策含义与未来政策走向值得研究。
Trump's announcement that the US is in a state of emergency is worth studying its policy implications and future policy direction.
美国总统的“紧急状态”声明美国各州内政独立，突发事件也主要由地方主导进行应急响应。
The US President's "state of emergency" declared the independence of the states of the United States, and emergency response was largely local-led.
但近几十年在各类突发事件的驱动下，美国联邦政府以两种方式参与对突发事件的响应：一是联邦政府对重大灾难和关键基础设施保护的应急响应给予资助或支持，但对响应工作不具有领导权；二是联邦政府直接领导对“联邦主要责任”领域（如国家公园、联邦建筑等）和极个别事件的应急响应。
But in recent decades, driven by a variety of contingencies, the US federal government has responded to emergencies in two ways: by funding or supporting emergency response to major disasters and critical infrastructure protection, but not by leading the response; and directly by the federal government in responding to "major federal responsibilities" (such as national parks, federal buildings, etc.) and very few events.
2001年“9.11”事件强化了一种发展趋势，即创造一种自上而下的、全危害、指挥和控制的应急管理模式。
The events of September 11, 2001, reinforced a trend toward creating a top-down, all-hazards, command-and-control emergency management model.
历史上，美国的应急管理是自下而上进行的。
Historically, emergency management in the United States has been bottom-up.
1988年的《斯塔福德灾难与紧急援助法》（简称“斯塔福德法”）授权总统宣布“重大灾难”或“紧急状态”两类声明，以应对超出州或地方政府应对能力的事件或威胁。
The Stafford Disaster and Emergency Assistance Act of 1988 (the Stafford Act) authorizes the President to declare "major disasters" or "states of emergency" in response to events or threats beyond the ability of state or local governments to respond.
“紧急状态”声明可以在突发事件发生之前发布，以减少或避免灾难的威胁，但不涉及事后恢复。
A "state of emergency" statement can be issued before an emergency occurs to reduce or avert the threat of disaster, but does not involve post-event recovery.
而“重大灾难”声明只能在事故发生后发布，比“紧急状态”声明提供了更多的联邦应对和事后恢复项目支持。
And "major disaster" statements can only be issued after the accident, providing more federal response and post-disaster recovery project support than the "state of emergency" statement.
大流感和其他传染病符合“紧急状态”声明的覆盖范围。
Pandemic and other infectious diseases are covered by the "state of emergency" declaration.
“斯塔福德法”授权的总统声明必须是受影响州的州长首先对紧急事件做出响应，并执行该州的应急响应计划，然后根据“斯塔福德法”请求总统发表声明。
The Stafford Act mandates a presidential statement that the governor of the affected state first responds to the emergency and implements the state's emergency response plan, and then requests a statement from the president under the Stafford Act.
州长必须以书面形式证明，事件的严重程度超出了该州的应对能力，需要补充联邦援助。
The Governor must certify in writing that the magnitude of the incident exceeds the state's response capacity and that additional federal assistance is required.
如果紧急事件涉及“联邦主要责任”领域，总统可以在没有接到州长请求的情况下宣布“紧急状态”，美国联邦政府主导响应。
If the emergency involves "major federal responsibilities," the president can declare a "state of emergency" without a request from the governor, and the federal government leads the response.
这样的声明曾在2001年五角大楼恐怖袭击和1995年俄克拉荷马城的默拉联邦大楼爆炸事件中做出过。
Such statements were made in the 2001 Pentagon terrorist attacks and in the 1995 bombing of the Merah Federal Building in Oklahoma City.
“紧急状态”声明下的联邦支援美国总统声明具体规定了授权的援助类型，包括向各州和地方提供联邦技术、财政、后勤和其他援助，总统在挽救生命或防止严重损害的情况下加速提供联邦援助。
The federal statement of support for the U.S. president under the "state of emergency" statement specifies the types of assistance authorized, including federal technical, financial, logistical, and other assistance to states and territories, and the president's acceleration of federal aid to save lives or prevent serious damage.
因此，特朗普在声明中表示，联邦政府将启动500亿美元的紧急资金储备，用于各州医疗机构应对新冠肺炎疫情。
That is why, in his statement, Trump said the federal government would activate $50 billion in emergency reserves for state-run health-care facilities to respond to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
总统声明能使国会拨付救灾援助和资金，3月14日，美国众议院通过了针对新冠疫情的经济援助计划（尚需参议院批准），支持美国联邦政府投入上百亿美元，推广免费新冠检测、提高带薪休假福利、增加对老人与儿童的食品补助等措施，以帮助美国民众更好地抵御疫情来袭，缓冲潜在的经济损失。
On March 14, the United States House of Representatives approved an economic aid program for the New Crown (pending Senate approval) to support the federal government's spending of tens of billions of dollars to promote free crown tests, increased paid vacation benefits, and increased food subsidies for the elderly and children to help them weather the epidemic and cushion potential economic losses.
这也支持了特朗普在3月11日电视讲话中的承诺，小型企业管理部门为受新冠病毒影响的公司提供资本和流动性资金。
This also underpins Trump's promise in his March 11 television address that small-business regulators will provide capital and liquidity to companies affected by the new cap virus.
总统声明也触发其他公共卫生应急响应机制。
Presidential statements also triggered other public health emergency response mechanisms.
根据《社会保障法》第1135条，卫生及公众服务部部长可以暂时放弃或修改某些医疗保险、医疗补助计划等。
Under section 1135 of the Social Security Act, the Minister of Health and Human Services may temporarily waive or modify certain health insurance, Medicaid schemes, etc.
因此，特朗普声明中表示，美国卫生部长可以免于受限于相关法律法规，为美国各州的医院、医生提供应对新冠肺炎的最大灵活性保障。
Thus, according to the Trump statement, US health ministers would be exempt from laws and regulations that would provide hospitals and doctors in US states with maximum flexibility to deal with new crown pneumonia.
特朗普在3月11日电视讲话称，健康保险业的领导同意放弃新冠病毒治疗的所有承保人自付费用部分。
In a televised speech on March 11, Trump said that the health-insurance industry's leaders had agreed to forego the out-of-pocket portion of the cost for all insurers giving up treatment for the new crown virus.
总统声明也可以使各种监管要求放松，如食品和药物管理局(FDA)允许在涉及生物、化学、辐射或核制剂的紧急情况下使用未经批准的新药或设备。
Presidential statements can also ease regulatory requirements, such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) allowing the use of unauthorized new drugs or equipment in emergency situations involving biological, chemical, radiological or nuclear agents.
因此，特朗普3月11日在全国电视讲话中称，正在削减大量的繁文缛节（审批程序），以在创纪录的时间内提供抗病毒治疗。
As a result, Trump told national television on March 11 that he was cutting red tape to provide antiviral treatment in record time.
此前，特朗普签署了一项83亿美元的资金拨款法案，以帮助美国疾控中心和其他政府机构抗击病毒，并支持疫苗、治疗方法和医疗用品的分配。
Earlier, Trump signed into law a $8.3 billion funding bill to help the CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support the distribution of vaccines, treatments, and medical supplies.
在总统声明后，美国Rocher公司向FDA提交其RNA和PCR一体化检测机器人Cobas的申请一小时后就被批准了， Cobas两种型号每天分别能完成1440人和4128人的检测，3个半小时内提供检测结果。
After the president's announcement, Rocher submitted its RNA and PCR integrated test robot Cobas to the FDA for approval within an hour, with Cobas testing 1,440 and 4,128 people per day, respectively, and providing results within three and a half hours.
全国性的连锁药店Walgreen和CVS,以及联锁超市Target和Walmart表态开放药店停车场，供流动检测设备到位检测。
Walgreen and CVS, national drugstore chains, as well as Target and Walmart, the interlocking supermarket, announced the opening of pharmacy parking lots for mobile testing equipment.
美国州“紧急状态”下的责任与政策截至3月12日，美国有30个州和华盛顿特区已经宣布进入紧急状态，美国各州都有紧急状态储备金，在州长宣布紧急状态后可以动用该笔基金采取抗疫措施，如经济条件好的麻州在3月10日宣布合格居民的检测和治疗费用完全由保险承担。
By March 12, 30 states and Washington, D.C., had declared a state of emergency, and all U.S. states had emergency reserves that the governor could use to fight epidemics if the governor declared a state of emergency.
美国实行联邦支持、州管理和地方响应的应急管理体制。
The United States operates a federal-supported, state-managed, and local-response emergency management system.
在生物事件（包括传染病）中，州、地方和部落政府主要负责发现和应对疾病暴发，并采取措施尽量减少此类暴发的健康、社会和经济后果。
In biological incidents (including infectious diseases), state, local and tribal governments are primarily responsible for detecting and responding to disease outbreaks and taking measures to minimize the health, social and economic consequences of such outbreaks.
各州能动用的人力资源主要是警察、消防、公共卫生服务人员和由州长控制的海岸卫队。
The human resources available in the counties are mainly the police, fire services, public health service personnel and the Coast Guard, which is controlled by the Governor.
另外，在“9·11”事件后成立的社区公民服务队能提供防灾、灭火、医疗等方面应急志愿服务。
In addition, the Community Citizen Service Corps, established after the events of 11 September, was able to provide emergency response services in the areas of disaster prevention, fire suppression and medical care.
在发生涉及传染性生物制剂或辐射的恐怖袭击或大流行时，州法律允许限制或强制人员流动，但联邦法规除了在美国边界上，不允许拘留或限制被认定为可传染的人。
In the case of a terrorist attack or pandemic involving infectious biological agents or radiation, state laws permit restrictions or coercive movements of persons, but federal regulations do not permit the detention or restriction of persons identified as infectious, except at United States borders.
美国国土安全委员2005年制订的全国大流行性流感战略及随后的实施计划明确了美国联邦与州和地方的职责。
The National Pandemic Influenza Strategy, developed by the United States Homeland Security Board in 2005, and its subsequent implementation plan define the responsibilities of the United States federal and state and local governments.
如联邦政府负责国内疫苗、抗病毒药物、诊断制剂和个人防护设备的生产能力和科研能力储备，等等。
For example, the Federal Government is responsible for the domestic production of vaccines, antiviral drugs, diagnostic preparations and personal protective equipment and reserves of scientific research capacity, etc.
州和地方的责任主要是限制疫情在社区内外的传播，建立全面可靠的定期演练的准备和反应计划，等等。
State and local responsibilities include, inter alia, limiting the spread of the epidemic within and outside the community, establishing comprehensive and reliable preparedness and response plans for regular drills, etc.
州长和部落首脑在每个州和部落民族内部建立应急行动中心，对大流感应对工作进行总体管理。
Governors and tribal heads establish emergency operations centres within each state and tribal people to provide overall management of pandemic influenza response.
美国疾控中心于2014年发布了更新的流感准备与应对框架，把流感准备与应对分成六个阶段：调查、识别传播可能性的增加、大流行开始、大流行加速、大流行减速和为未来大流行做准备。
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released an updated influenza preparedness and response framework in 2014, which divides influenza preparedness and response into six phases: investigation, identification of increased transmission potential, pandemic initiation, pandemic acceleration, pandemic mitigation and preparedness for future pandemics.
目前为大流行开始阶段，州的责任是考虑启动州应急行动中心、宣布公共卫生紧急状态、在受感染地点或院校考虑实施适当的社区缓解措施、评估是否需要外来的援助、考虑对接触者实施自愿隔离以及暴露人群的化学预防，等等。
At present, in the beginning of a pandemic, it is the responsibility of the State to consider activation of the State Emergency Operations Centre, declaration of a public health emergency, consideration of appropriate community mitigation measures in the affected location or school, assessment of the need for external assistance, consideration of voluntary isolation of persons in contact and chemical prophylaxis of exposed populations, etc.
美国联邦政府后续可能的新冠疫情应对政策在抗新冠疫情的应急物资准备方面，根据美国卫生与公众服务部2017年对大流感部门预案（2005年制订，2009年H1N1后第一次修订）的第二次修订说明，修订的背景是美国近10年的疫苗技术、产能和储备，呼吸设备技术和流感抗病毒药物有很大的进步，例如，在出现大流行毒株后3个月内使疫苗准备就绪，并批准适用于一系列流感和其他病毒病原体的广谱抗病毒疗法。
The United States federal government's follow-up policy on a possible new Crown Epidemic in emergency preparedness for the New Crown Epidemic is based on the United States Department of Health and Human Services 2017 preparedness plan for pandemic influenza (developed in 2005 and first revised after H1N1 2009), with significant advances in vaccine technology, respiratory equipment technology and influenza antiviral drugs.
尽管美国有科技自信，且除了为数不多的大城市人员密集之外，地广人稀，交通主要以自驾为主，传染病风险相对较小，但美国每年流感死亡人数在2.5万至7万人之间，也暴露出其公共卫生体系的一些问题。
Despite America's technological assertiveness, its sparsely populated land, its predominantly self-driving transportation system, and its relatively low risk of infectious disease, its annual flu death toll of between 25,000 and 70,000 also exposes some of the problems of its public health system.
新冠病毒的传染性、无症状和杀伤力使美国短期内的风险小，但长期风险巨大。
The infectious, asymptomatic, and lethal nature of the new crown virus makes the US less risky in the short term, but riskier in the long term.
特朗普于2020年2月底任命副总统彭斯为白宫冠状病毒应对的总负责人，随后任命的白宫冠状病毒专责小组成员有:卫生与公共服务部部长、总统国家安全事务助理、美国疾病控制与预防中心主任、美国国立卫生研究院过敏与传染病研究所所长、副国务卿，国土安全部代理副部长、交通部代理副部长、负责亚洲事务的总统助理兼副国家安全顾问、总统助理兼参谋长高级顾问、总统助理兼国内政策委员会主任、总统助理兼负责政策协调的副参谋长、白宫管理和预算办公室执行副主任。
Trump appointed Vice President Burns as White House Chief of Coronavirus Response in late February 2020, followed by the White House Coronavirus Director, CDC Director, NIH Director of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Undersecretary, Assistant President and Deputy Chief of Staff, Assistant President and Chief of Internal Policy, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy Coordination, and Executive Deputy Director of the White House Management and Budget Office.
与2004年国家响应计划生物事件专项预案确定的责任部门相比，缺少美国财政部长、劳工部长和农业部长。
There is a lack of United States Treasury Secretary, Secretary of Labor and Secretary of Agriculture compared to the responsible departments identified in the National Response Plan's Special Plan for Biological Events.
这意味着特朗普目前还没有将新冠病毒有可能对美国经济和就业的影响进行系统的考虑。
This means that Trump has not yet systematically considered the likely impact of the new crown virus on the US economy and employment.
白宫冠状病毒专责小组增加了负责亚州事务的总统助理兼副国家安全顾问马修·波廷格，这意味着美国政府寻求与中国的紧密合作，共同抗击美国新冠疫情。
The White House Task Force on Coronavirus has added Matthew Pottinger, Assistant President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Asia, meaning the US government seeks to work closely with China in the fight against the US crown.
（作者为中央党校〔国家行政学院〕应急管理培训中心教授；编辑：王延春）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a professor at the Central Party School [National School of Administration] Emergency Management Training Center.] Photo: Wang Yanchun For more details about the outbreak, please see below: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美式紧急状态有多大含金量？。
How much gold does an American state of emergency contain?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "美式紧急状态有多大含金量？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How much of a US emergency did it contain?;
var msg_desc = "目前美国有30个州和华盛顿特区已宣布进入紧急状态，美国各州都有紧急状态储备金，在州长宣布紧急状态后即可动用该笔基金采取抗疫措施";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; At present, 30 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., have declared a state of emergency, and all U.S. states have emergency reserves that can be used against disease when a state of emergency is declared.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
