部分公共场合可摘口罩，为什么是安徽？。
Some public places may take off mask, why is Anhui?
黄姝静  等。
NINNINNINGJING INDUSTRY.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
安徽官宣部分公共场合可摘口罩，这符合当地目前抗疫数据所表现出的向好趋势，但不少安徽民众对在部分公共场合不戴口罩表示“担心”。
Anhui Official Xuan some public places can remove masks, which is in line with the current local anti-epidemic data show a good trend, but many people in Anhui Province in some public places do not wear masks "fear."
受访专家认为，各地区抗疫的具体进展不同，较难对“摘口罩”的时机作出统一判断，各地应根据自身情况作出不同措施文|《财经》记者 黄姝静实习生刘梓桐编辑|鲁伟新冠肺炎疫情暴发以来，“戴口罩”成为公众防疫的重要方式，何时可摘口罩是所有人都关心的话题。
Experts interviewed believe that specific progress in fighting epidemic diseases varies from region to region. It is difficult to make a unified judgment on the timing of mask-taking. Every place should take different measures according to its own conditions.
近日，安徽省新冠肺炎疫情防控应急综合指挥部办公室发布《关于印发低风险地区社会公众口罩使用指南的通知》（下称《安徽口罩使用指南》），提出了7种“非必需佩戴口罩的情形”。
The office of Anhui Province's Emergency Integrated Command for New Crown Pneumonia recently issued the "Notice on Issuing Guidelines for the Use of Social Mask Masks in Low-Risk Areas" (hereinafter referred to as the "Guide to the Use of Anhui Mask].
这是地方政府专门发文明确告知公众在部分公开场合可以不戴口罩，引发广泛关注与讨论。
This is a special message from the local government clearly informed the public in some public places can not wear masks, causing widespread concern and discussion.
《安徽口罩使用指南》宣布公众可摘口罩的情形包括“在空旷无人处”、“空旷地区户外锻炼”、“开会时人员间隔距离不少于1米”等等。
"Anhui mask use guide" announced that the public can take off masks "in open no one's place," "outdoor exercise in open areas," "meeting at intervals of not less than 1 meter," and so on.
不过，不少在安徽生活的民众对可摘口罩的通知表示了不同程度的“担心”，多位市民对《财经》记者表示，在出入一般公共场合时仍会选择佩戴口罩。
However, many people living in Anhui have expressed varying degrees of "concern" about the notices, and many citizens told Caijing that they would still choose to wear masks when entering or leaving public places.
复旦大学公共卫生学院教授厉曙光对《财经》记者分析，《安徽口罩使用指南》发布的时点和具体内容基本合理、相对完善。
Li Shuguang, a professor at Fudan University School of Public Health, told Caijing that the "Guide to the Use of Anhui Mask" was reasonable and relatively perfect.
公众可将其看做一份提示性文件，“其理论指导意义大于实际应用价值。
The public can see it as an indicative document, "whose theoretical significance is greater than its practical value."
”厉曙光认为，《安徽口罩使用指南》列举的部分可摘口罩的情形可能仍存在概率上的风险。
Mr Li believes there may still be a probability risk in the use of some of the masks listed in the Anhui Mask Use Guide.
“从全国范围来看，各地区抗疫的具体进展不同，人口流动、对外交流的情况不同，较难对‘摘口罩’的时机作出统一判断，各地区也应当根据自身情况，研判风险，具体作出不同措施。
"At the national level, the specific progress in fighting epidemic diseases varies from region to region, and it is difficult to make a unified judgment on the timing of taking off masks.
”中山大学公共卫生学院教授陆家海告诉《财经》记者。
Lu Jiahai, professor of public health at Zhongshan University, told Caijing.
官宣可摘口罩在发布《安徽口罩使用指南》之前，安徽当地的抗疫数据趋势向好，并已经实现在院患者的全部“清零”。
Official can remove masks Before issuing the "Guide to the Use of Anhui Mask," the local anti-epidemic data trend in Anhui Province has been good, and has achieved all "zero" patients in the hospital.
安徽的应急响应也已经由此前的二级调整为三级。
Anhui emergency response has also been adjusted from the previous two levels to three.
3月16日，《安徽口罩使用指南》发布，提出7种情形之下，公众非必须佩戴口罩。
On March 16, a guide to the use of Anhui masks was issued, stating that the public must wear masks in seven situations.
这被普遍解读为公众在部分公开场合可摘口罩。
This is widely interpreted to mean that the public can remove masks in some public places.
《安徽口罩使用指南》提出的7种情形包括“个人独处、开车时”；“独自在室外空旷且人员稀少地区”；“安康码均为绿码且居家家庭成员中均无发热、干咳等异常症状”；“无发热、干咳等异常症状，且安康码均为绿码的企事业单位工作人员工作时，间隔距离不少于1米，每人占有面积不少于1平方米（特殊行业、岗位除外）”；“均无发热、干咳等异常症状，且安康码均为绿码的人员开会时，参会人员间隔距离不少于1米，每人占有面积不少于1平方米”；“空旷地区户外锻炼，且无人员聚集时”；“年龄极小的婴幼儿不能戴口罩，易引起窒息”。
"Anhui mask use guide" seven situations, including "personal alone, driving when"; "alone in the open and sparsely populated areas"; "Ankang code is green code and no family members have fever, dry cough and other abnormal symptoms," "no heating, dry cough and other abnormal symptoms, and no more than 1 square meter per person occupation"; "extremely young infants and young children can not wear masks, easily suffocate.
《安徽口罩使用指南》发布后，不少当地民众仍然表露出不同程度的“担心”。
"Anhui mask use guide" issued, many local people still show varying degrees of "concern."
安徽省合肥市蜀山区居民王典典对《财经》记者表示，距离上一次合肥市瑶海区曝出无症状感染者，刚刚过去16天，自己依然不是很放心。
Just 16 days after the previous outbreak of asymptomatic infection in the Yao area of Hefei City, he was still not at ease, Wang Coan, a resident of Shu mountain area in Hefei province, told Caijing.
“半个月的时间可能并没有完全地度过潜伏期。
"Half a month may not have passed the incubation period completely.
现在说安全、摘口罩还是有点太早，小心驶得万年船，而且我家里疫情期间也已经囤了足够的口罩”。
It's a little early to say safe, take off masks, drive carefully, and my family during the epidemic period has been enough masks, "he said.
与王典典的担忧类似，合肥市庐阳区居民刘菁菁告诉《财经》记者，不久以前，她也在为瑶海区出现的无症状感染者感到后怕。
Similar to Wang's concerns, Liu Jingjing, a resident of Luyang district of Hefei City, told Caijing that she, too, had been terrified of asymptomatic infections in the Yao area not long ago.
不过，《安徽口罩使用指南》发布后，刘菁菁的看法出现一些变化：“目前开始提倡‘有条件’摘口罩，说明风险应该已经不大了。
However, after the publication of the Anhui Mask Usage Guide, Liu Jingjing's views changed: "The current promotion of 'conditional' mask removal suggests that the risk should be low.
我相信这么做是有理由有依据的。
I believe there is good reason to do so.
”刘菁菁表示，在空旷无人的场所她会考虑摘掉口罩，但在公共场所依然会保留戴口罩的习惯。
Liu said she would consider removing the mask in an empty place, but would still keep it in public.
值得注意的是，《安徽口罩使用指南》同时明确，在13种情形下公众仍然需要佩戴口罩，主要为：“出现发热、干咳等呼吸道症状的人员”；“前往医疗机构就诊或探望病人”；“与有发热、咳嗽等呼吸道症状病人接触”；“前往机场、火车站、高铁站等人口密集场所”；“通风不良或密闭工作场所”；“医疗机构、机场、高铁站、火车站等场所工作人员”；“从事与疫情相关的疾控、警察、保安等人员”；“实验室从事病原检测人员”；“乘坐出租车、公交车、地铁等公共交通”；“前往通风不良的商场、超市购物，前往银行办理业务”；“前往展览馆、美术馆、图书馆、博物馆、理发店、美容院、宾馆等公共场所”；“服务型行业公共场所提供服务的人员”；“其他需要佩戴口罩的情形”。
It is also clear that the public still needs to wear masks in 13 situations, mainly: "people suffering from respiratory symptoms such as fever and dry cough"; "visiting medical institutions or visiting patients"; "laboring with fever, coughing, barber shops, hairdressers, hotels and other public places"; "poorly ventilated or closed workplaces"; "poorly ventilated or closed workplaces"; "other situations requiring masks."
复旦大学公共卫生学院教授厉曙光表示，“仔细分析7种可以摘掉口罩的情形，第1种-第3种情形及第6种-第7种情形完全符合一般的防护常识，现实中大家已经这么做了。
Li Shuguang, a professor at the Fudan University School of Public Health, said: "Careful analysis of the seven situations in which masks can be removed. Scenes 1-3 and 6-7 are perfectly consistent with common sense of protection, as you have done in practice.
”厉曙光称，可能存在变数的是第4种和第5种情形，根据前期披露的信息，无异常症状者中仍然可能存在病毒感染者或者存在未完全如实上报行踪、身体状况的情形，因此在工作、开会等人数相对较多的场合摘掉口罩仍然会存在概率上的风险。
Scenarios 4 and 5 are likely to be in place, according to Dawson. According to previous disclosures, people without unusual symptoms may still be infected with the virus or may have incomplete reporting of their whereabouts and physical condition, so there is still a risk that masks will be removed in relatively large numbers at work, meetings, etc.
为什么是安徽？不仅全国公众关心，作为安徽人的刘菁菁和王典典也在思考：为什么是安徽较早宣布部分公开场合可以摘掉口罩？新冠肺炎确诊病例的“清零”或是一个重要节点。
Why is Anhui? Not only is the national public concerned, Liu Jingjing, as an Anhui resident, and the Wang classics are thinking: Why did Anhui announce earlier that some face masks can be removed in public?
根据当地通报信息，安徽省在院患者3月8日实现全部“清零”，累计治愈984例、治愈率99.4%。
According to local reports, patients in the hospital in Anhui Province achieved "zero" on March 8, with 984 cases cured and 99.4 percent cured.
3月13日，合肥市、芜湖市新冠肺炎疫情防控应急综合指挥部通报称，截至3月12日24时，合肥市瑶海区、芜湖市无为市2个县（市、区）均连续14天无新增确诊病例，达到国家疫情低风险等级标准。
As of 2400 hours on March 12, no new confirmed cases had been reported in two counties (cities and districts) in the Yao area of Hefei city and Wuhu city of Wuwei city, meeting the national standard for a low-risk epidemic.
根据国家和省有关规定，瑶海区、无为市疫情防控风险等级由中风险调至低风险。
According to the relevant national and provincial regulations, the Yao area, Wuwei City disease control risk level from medium risk to low risk.
至此，安徽全省都达到了低风险等级标准。
So far, Anhui province has reached the low-risk grade standard.
此外，截至3月15日，安徽省已连续17天无确诊、疑似病例。
In addition, as of March 15, Anhui Province has 17 consecutive days without confirmed, suspected cases.
当日下午，安徽省新冠肺炎疫情防控应急综合指挥部发布公告称，自3月15日18时起，安徽将新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控应急响应级别由省级二级响应调整为省级三级响应。
On March 15, Anhui adjusted the level of emergency response for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia from the provincial level to the provincial level from 1800 hours, Anhui Province, Anhui Province, said in the afternoon.
应急响应调整为三级响应的第二天，即3月16日，《安徽口罩使用指南》发布。
Emergency Response Adjusted to Level 3 Response, March 16, "Anhui mask use guide" issued.
同一天，中央调研组就餐饮等服务行业复工复产工作来安徽调研，现场体验餐饮业开工情况。
On the same day, the Central Investigation Team returned to work on catering and other service industries to Anhui Province.
据当地媒体报道，安徽省委常委、常务副省长邓向阳，安徽省委常委、省人大常委会副主任、合肥市委书记宋国权陪同调研，并自费品尝合肥小吃。
Deng Xiangyang, the provincial governor and standing vice-governor of Anhui province, the vice-chairman of the provincial standing committee, the vice-chairman of the provincial standing committee and the state party secretary Song Guoquan accompanied the investigation, and at his own expense tasted Hefei snacks, local media reported.
鉴于种种向好的数据和部分日常生活的恢复，在刘菁菁看来，作为安徽省会的合肥，正处于逐渐“苏醒”的状态，形势看起来的确越变越好。
In view of the recovery to good data and some aspects of daily life, Liu sees Hefei, as the capital of Anhui Province, in a state of gradual "awakening," and the situation does seem to be getting better.
《财经》记者注意到，尽管没有完全放下戒备、摘下口罩，疫情的良好控制依然让合肥市民开始更多地参与到户外活动中。
The Caijing reporter noted that although did not put down the guard completely, took off the mask, the epidemic good control still lets Hefei citizen begin to participate more in outdoor activities.
早在上个周末，合肥市开放的为数不多的几个公园就已经人潮涌动。
Already last weekend, the few parks that opened in Hefei were flooded.
3月14日，位于合肥市长江西路的蜀麓公园就已经吸引了一大批的游客，公园周围两公里以内的马路边停满了车辆，公园里十分热闹，但是并不拥挤，大部分市民仍然戴着口罩。
On March 14, the Shu Foothill Park on the West Changjiang Road in Hefei City attracted a large number of tourists. Traffic was parked along the road within two kilometers of the park, which was busy but not crowded, and most residents still wore masks.
数日前，中共安徽省委办公厅、安徽省人民政府办公厅就印发《关于加快推进全省企业复工复产的意见》的通知。
A few days ago, the office of the CPC Anhui Provincial Committee and the Anhui Provincial People's Government issued a notice on speeding up the resumption of production by enterprises throughout the province.
这份通知明确提出，低风险地区全面复工复产，取消不合理限制，不得对企业复工复产设置条件，不得采取审批、备案等方式延缓开工时间。
The circular clearly states that low-risk areas should be fully reinstated, unreasonable restrictions lifted, conditions set for the resumption of work by enterprises should not be set, and approval and record-keeping measures should not be taken to delay the start of construction.
2月28日，合肥多家商场发布即将“恢复营业”的通知。
Feb. 28, a number of stores in Hefei announced the imminent "resumption of business" notice.
目前，合肥的大型商场已基本营业，餐饮业也逐渐开门。
At present, the large shopping malls in Hefei have been basically open, and the catering industry is gradually opening.
3月16日，《财经》记者实地探访发现，尽管餐饮业已经基本解除封禁，不同的店家仍然选择了不同的营业方式，肯德基、CoCo等商家依然选择以无接触打包带走的形式提供餐品，而汉堡王则开始接待堂食，顾客需要在进店前进行体温测量和登记。
On March 16, a field visit by Caijing journalists found that despite the lifting of the ban, different stores had opted for different ways of doing business. Businesses such as KFC and CoCo continued to offer meals on a no-contact basis, while Burger King began serving parlours where customers needed to take temperature measurements and register before entering.
厉曙光指出，关于未来防疫有两点值得关注，一是境外输入病例的接收、隔离、治疗，给国内尤其是几座超大城市造成了很大的压力；第二，多地都已做到无新增确诊病例、疑似病例，但是国内外对于新冠病毒还有很多认知盲区，复发、复阳都是人们目前比较担心的可能发生的问题。
The first is the reception, isolation and treatment of imported cases from abroad, which has put a great deal of pressure on the country, especially some mega-cities. Second, many countries have achieved no new confirmed cases or suspected cases, but there are still many cognitive blind areas for the new crown virus at home and abroad.
“这些问题也会进一步阻止人们全面摘下口罩，恢复完全正常的生活。
"These problems will further prevent people from taking off their masks completely and returning to a fully normal life.
”（应采访对象要求，文中王典典、刘菁菁为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(At the request of the interviewee, Wang Jia Jing and Liu Jingjing use aliases) Click here to see more details about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
部分公共场合可摘口罩，为什么是安徽？。
Some public places may take off mask, why is Anhui?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "部分公共场合可摘口罩，为什么是安徽？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; some public places may remove masks; why Anhui?;
var msg_desc = "安徽官宣部分公共场合可摘口罩，这符合当地目前抗疫数据所表现出的向好趋势，但不少安徽民众对在部分公共场合不戴口罩";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Anhui's official announcement that some public places may remove face masks, consistent with current local anti-epidemic data, but many Anhui residents don't wear masks and quotas in some public places.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
