新冠疫苗研发耗资20亿美元，美国能否领跑？。
Can the United States lead the way in the $2 billion research and development effort?
王晓枫。
Wang Xiaofeng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
流行病防范创新联盟CEO理查德·哈切特估算，要足够快地开发出新冠肺炎疫苗，需要在未来12到18个月内花费20亿美元文|《财经》记者 王晓枫编辑|郝洲北京时间3月16日晚，由军事科学院军事医学研究院陈薇院士领衔的科研团队研制的重组新冠疫苗获批启动展开临床试验。
Richard Hackett, CEO of the Alliance for Innovation in Epidemiology, estimates that developing a vaccine for new crown pneumonia quickly enough will require $2 billion over the next 12 to 18 months; and that a recombinant crown vaccine, developed by a team led by Academician Chen Weiwei of the Academy of Military Sciences, was approved for clinical trials.
陈薇在接受央视采访时表示，按照国际的规范，国内的法规，疫苗已经做了安全、有效、质量可控、可大规模生产的前期准备工作。
In an interview with CCTV, Chen Wei said that according to international norms, domestic regulations, vaccines have done safe, effective, quality-controlled, large-scale production of the preparatory work.
不到24小时前，美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）称，生物科技公司Moderna针对新冠病毒的试验性疫苗已开始首次人体测试。
Less than 24 hours ago, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) said the biotechnology company Moderna's experimental vaccine for the new crown virus had begun its first human trials.
这是一场竞赛，中国、美国、德国、英国、法国、日本、以色列、新加坡、澳大利亚、印度等国都在紧锣密鼓研发疫苗。
This is a competition in which China, the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Israel, Singapore, Australia, India and others are working hard to develop vaccines.
据德国媒体报道，全球目前有30多个公司和机构正在参与这场竞赛。
According to German media reports, more than 30 companies and institutions are participating in the competition.
据世界卫生组织的统计，截至3月17日，全球已有158个国家和地区接近18万人确诊感染新冠肺炎，死亡总人数达到7426人。
As of March 17, nearly 180,000 people in 158 countries and regions had been diagnosed with pneumonia, bringing the total number of deaths to 7,426, according to the World Health Organization.
世卫总干事谭德塞称这些数字是“悲剧性的里程碑”。
WHO Director-General Lindsey described the figures as a "tragic milestone."
疫情的焦灼让疫苗开发格外引人关注。
The urgency of the epidemic has made vaccine development a particular concern.
今年1月10日，中方发布新冠病毒基因组，这打响了新冠疫苗竞赛的发令枪。
On January 10 this year, China released the genome of the new crown virus, the trigger gun of the new crown vaccine competition.
美国政府的抗新冠病毒疫苗临床测试由美国国立卫生研究院资助，在位于西雅图的凯撒医疗机构华盛顿卫生研究所进行。
The U.S. government's clinical trials for the vaccine were funded by the National Institutes of Health at the Seattle-based Washington Health Institute.
45名年轻健康测试者（18岁-55岁）将接受不同剂量疫苗注射，他们不会因此感染，因为疫苗本身不含病毒，测试目的是为了确保疫苗无令人担忧副作用，以便为更大型测试打下基础。
Forty-five young health testers (aged 18-55) will receive different doses of the vaccine and will not become infected because the vaccine itself does not contain the virus. The aim of the test is to ensure that the vaccine does not have worrying side effects in order to lay the groundwork for larger tests.
这款疫苗名为mRNA-1273，由美国国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）和生物技术公司Moderna联合开发。
The vaccine, called mRNA-1273, was developed jointly by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and the biotechnology company Moderna.
临床地点选在西雅图，因为那里是美国疫情重灾区，20%确诊病例都集中在那里。
The clinical site was Seattle, where 20 percent of the confirmed cases were concentrated, because it was the epicentre of the U. S. epidemic.
NIH表示，该疫苗会引导人体细胞产生一种病毒蛋白，科学家希望这种蛋白能引发对新冠病毒的强烈免疫反应。
NIH says the vaccine induces human cells to produce a viral protein that scientists hope will trigger a strong immune response to the new crown virus.
据悉，mRNA-1273疫苗已经在动物模型中显示出希望，这是第一次在人类身上进行临床测试。
It is reported that mRNA-1273 vaccine has shown promise in animal models and is the first clinical trial in humans.
测试第一阶段将持续6周，在此期间，参与者将通过注射接受两剂疫苗，间隔约28天。
The first phase of the test will last six weeks, during which participants will receive two doses of the vaccine by injection, at intervals of approximately 28 days.
参与者将被分配到三组，分别接受25微克、100微克或250微克的注射剂量。
Participants were assigned to three groups and given 25, 100 or 250 micrograms of injections.
参与测试者将被要求在两次疫苗接种之间以及第二次疫苗接种后一年内返回测试地点。
Participants will be asked to return to the test site between vaccinations and within one year of the second dose.
疫苗或影响特朗普连任开发此款疫苗的公司Moderna总部位于波士顿附近，疫苗的进展让该公司股价在最过去一个月内从18.91美元涨至28.18美元。
Progress on vaccines, or on Moderna, a company that has influenced Trump's re-election efforts to develop the vaccine, near Boston, has increased its share price from $18.91 to $28.18 in the past month.
不同于传统大型制药企业，Moderna主打小而精且快速反应。
Unlike traditional large pharmaceutical companies, Moderna is small and sophisticated and quick to react.
2月下旬，Moderna公司创下疫苗研发最快纪录的消息吸引了全球媒体，从识别病毒到研发出可用于人体测试的疫苗仅用42天。
Late in February, the company Moderna set the world's fastest record for vaccine development, attracting media attention worldwide, from identifying the virus to developing a vaccine that could be used for human testing in only 42 days.
2月下旬一天，新冠疫情尚未在全球蔓延，Moderna公司就将小瓶装制剂的疫苗送往NIH已待临床测试。
One day in late February, before the new crown had spread globally, Moderna sent vaccines for small bottles to NIH, where they were awaiting clinical testing.
在那一夜，负责开发疫苗且有30年制药经验的胡安·安德烈斯（Juan Andres）紧张地查看手机，追踪运送疫苗的货车位置，直至其安全抵达目的地。
That night, Juan Andres, who developed the vaccine and had 30 years of pharmaceutical experience, nervously looked at the phone and tracked the location of the van carrying the vaccine until it reached its destination safely.
“我们的自豪感来自于这是一场竞赛。
"Our pride stems from the fact that this is a competition.
尽快研发出疫苗已经成为一项责任。
Developing a vaccine as soon as possible has become a responsibility.
”安德烈斯说。
'said Andrea.
在确认疫苗已安全到达后，整个团队吃冰淇淋庆祝。
After making sure the vaccine arrived safely, the entire team ate ice cream to celebrate.
Moderna至少有100名员工参与该项目，所有人员都很兴奋。
At least 100 Moderna employees are involved in the project and all are excited.
Moderna在新冠病毒疫苗研发处于前列得益于公司CEO斯特凡纳·邦塞尔（Stephane Bancel）与NIH的一次电话沟通。
Moderna is at the forefront of research and development for the new crown virus vaccine thanks to a telephone communication between company CEO Stephane Bancel and NIH.
邦塞尔曾参与2009年甲型H1N1流感病毒的防疫工作。
Bonsel was involved in the 2009 influenza A (H1N1) pandemic.
2019年秋季，NIH和Moderna就同意在该公司制造工厂进行一项试验，以了解它们能够多快针对大型流行性传染病做出反应。
In the autumn of 2019, NIH and Moderna agreed to conduct an experiment at the company's manufacturing plant to see how quickly they could respond to pandemic diseases.
但还没来得及试运行，新型冠状病毒就提供了一次真正的考验。
But before the trial run, the new coronavirus provides a real test.
NIH此前曾表示，整个临床试验过程可能需要长达14个月。
NIH had previously indicated that the entire clinical trial process could take up to 14 months.
最近几周，包括NIAID主任安东尼·福西（Anthony Fauci）在内的高级卫生官员多次在公开场合对特朗普解释开发疫苗的漫长过程。
In recent weeks, senior health officials, including Anthony Fauci, director of NIAID, have repeatedly explained in public to Trump the long process of developing a vaccine.
但特朗普似乎听不进去，他不止一次问科研人员是否可以几个月内研发疫苗。
But Trump seems oblivious, asking researchers more than once whether they can develop a vaccine in a matter of months.
“所以接下来几个月里，你认为你可以研制出疫苗?” 特朗普在3月2日与高级卫生官员会面时问道。
"So in the next few months, you think you can develop a vaccine?" Trump asked at a meeting with senior health officials on March 2.
“不会有疫苗，”美国卫生与公众服务部部长亚历克斯·阿泽（Alex Azar）纠正道。
"There will be no vaccine," corrects Alex Azar, the secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services.
“你将有一种疫苗进行测试。
"You're going to have a vaccine tested.
”“好吧，你说的是在一年内，”特朗普回应道。
"Well, you're talking about within a year," Trump responded.
“一年到一年半。
"A year to a year and a half.
”福西插话道。
"interrupted Fossey.
新冠疫情在美国不断升级无法不让特朗普心急如焚，截至美东时间3月17日21时，美国已报告6436例新冠肺炎确诊病例，其中包括死亡病例108例。
With the new crown rising in the US, Trump is in a state of panic, with the US reporting 6,436 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, including 108 deaths, as of 2100 GT March 17.
美国媒体普遍认为，如果不能有效应对疫情且引发经济衰退，特朗普竞选连任恐受波及。
It is widely believed in the US media that Trump's re-election campaign could suffer if it fails to respond effectively to the epidemic and trigger a recession.
在这种情况下，特朗普格外重视疫苗研发，不仅全力支持美国药企研发，还把目光投向海外药企，甚至与盟友引发冲突。
In this context, Trump has placed particular emphasis on vaccine development, not only supporting US pharmaceutical research and development, but also targeting overseas pharmaceutical companies, and even sparking conflict with allies.
近日，德国政界人士对当地媒体透露，美德之间围绕一家名为CureVac的德国制药企业展开争夺战，该药企正在进行新冠病毒疫苗研发工作，因而成为特朗普的目标，特朗普政府被指有意花重金挖角该公司，让他们专门为美国研制疫苗。
German politicians revealed to local media recently that the battle over virtues revolves around CureVac, a German pharmaceutical company that is working on a vaccine for the new crown virus. Trump's administration has been accused of ploughing away at the company to develop a vaccine specifically for the United States.
该政界人士表示，特朗普正试图将这些科学家的工作变成美国独有，并且将采取任何措施来为美国取得疫苗，但只为美国。
The politician said Trump was trying to turn the work of these scientists into the exclusive preserve of the US and would do anything to get a vaccine for the US, but only for the US.
德国卫生部发言人证实了上述消息，称德国政府对确保在德国和欧洲也能开发针对新冠病毒的疫苗和活性物质非常感兴趣。
A spokesman for the German health ministry confirmed the information, saying the German government is very interested in ensuring that vaccines and active substances for the new crown virus can also be developed in Germany and Europe.
在这方面，政府正在与CureVac公司进行深入交流。
In this regard, the Government is in intensive communication with CureVac.
CureVac3月15日发表声明，否认公司被收购的传言。
CureVaca issued a statement on March 15, denying rumors that the company had been acquired.
针对上述消息，美国驻德国大使理查德·格雷内尔（Richard Grenell）回应称该报道是错的。
In response to the news, Richard Grenell, the US ambassador to Germany, responded that the report was wrong.
一位美国官员也表示，事情被严重夸大，美国将继续与任何能够提供帮助的公司进行交流，找到任何解决方案也都将与全世界分享。
A U.S. official said the situation was greatly exaggerated and that the United States would continue to talk to any company that could help, and that any solutions would be shared with the rest of the world.
耗时耗力的竞赛美国方面举动并不意外，因为这是一场竞赛，中国、德国、英国、法国、日本、以色列、新加坡、澳大利亚、印度等国家都在研发疫苗。
The time-consuming and labor-consuming race on the US side is not surprising, because it is a race in which China, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Japan, Israel, Singapore, Australia, India, and others are developing vaccines.
3月17日下午，在国务院联防联控机制召开的新闻发布会上，中国工程院院士王军志介绍称，中国新冠疫苗研发进展目前总体上处于国际先进行列，不会慢于国外。
On the afternoon of March 17, at a press conference held by the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council, Wang Junzhi, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said that the research and development of the new crown vaccine in China is now among the most advanced in the world.
中国“已有（疫苗）研发进展比较快的单位，向国家药监局滚动递交临床试验申请材料，并且已经开展临床试验方案论证、招募志愿者等相关工作。
China "already has units that are making rapid progress in research and development, rolling over clinical trial application materials to the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision and Administration, and has already started clinical trial program argumentation, recruitment of volunteers and other related work.
待国家药监局按照有关法律法规审批后，开始临床试验。
Clinical trials will begin after the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision has approved relevant laws and regulations.
”王军志说。
"said Wang Junzhi.
澳大利亚方面也取得进展，昆士兰大学研究团队利用 “分子钳”专利技术增加病毒蛋白的稳定性，使疫苗更容易被免疫系统识别，从而激发保护性免疫反应。
Progress has also been made in Australia, where the University of Queensland research team used patented molecular clamp technology to increase the stability of viral proteins, making it easier for the vaccine to be recognized by the immune system, thereby triggering a protective immune response.
团队已研制出第一支候选疫苗。
The team has developed the first candidate vaccine.
在进行更多检测后，即可投入正式的临床前测试。
After more tests are performed, they are ready for formal pre-clinical testing.
昆士兰大学的研究和Moderna公司得益于同一家机构的资助，即流行病防范创新联盟（CEPI），CEPI于2017年在达沃斯成立，旨在加速疫苗研发快速消灭流行性传染病，资金来自各国政府和机构捐赠，比尔·盖茨基金会亦是CEPI主要支持者。
The Queensland University's Research and Modern Company benefits from funding from the same agency, the Epidemic Preparedness Innovation Alliance (CEPI), which was established in 2017 in Davos to accelerate vaccine research and development to rapidly eliminate infectious diseases, with funding from governments and institutions, and the Bill Gates Foundation is a major supporter of CEPI.
CEPI目前已赞助多个新冠肺炎疫苗项目， CEO理查德·哈切特（Richard Hatchett）曾估算，要足够快地开发出新冠肺炎疫苗，需要在未来12到18个月内花费20亿美元。
CEO Richard Hatchett has estimated that it will cost $2 billion over the next 12 to 18 months to develop a vaccine for new Crowded Pneumonia quickly enough.
资金是疫苗研发第一步，从实验开始到大批量生产投入市场是一个漫长的过程。
Funding is the first step in vaccine development, from the beginning of experiments to large-scale production into the market is a long process.
对于新冠疫苗何时问世，各方面有诸多说法，从3个月到3年、5年的说法都有，这是因为疫苗从研发到批量生产，需要经历动物实验、人体临床试验、大规模人群验证有效、世卫组织许可及本国许可等程序。
There are many theories about when the new crown vaccine came into being, ranging from three months to three years and five years, because it takes animal experimentation, human clinical trials, large-scale population validation, WHO licensing and national licensing procedures for vaccines from development to mass production.
各国国情与法律政策不同，因此疫苗问世的耗时也不尽相同。
Countries differ from one country to another in terms of legal policy, so the time taken to produce vaccines varies.
中国疾病预防控制中心流行病学首席专家吴尊友在接受央视采访时表示，即使特事特办，疫苗还得经过三期的临床试验。
Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told CCTV that the vaccine would have to go through three clinical trials, even though it was specially designed.
临床一期要做安全性试验，最短也要不少于20天；临床二期是测试疫苗集中的程序等手续，大概要200-300人，等招募完成，最短需要一个月的时间；临床三期是评估疫苗有效性，如果病人发病率比较高的话，需要的样本量会少一些，评价这样一个效果，最短也要三个月到五个月不等。
The second stage is the procedure for testing the concentration of vaccines, which takes about 200-300 people, and it takes at least one month to complete the recruitment. The third stage is to assess the effectiveness of the vaccine. If the patient has a high incidence, the sample size will be less, and the minimum time to evaluate the effect is three to five months.
也就是说，如果完成三期临床试验，最后得出结论，疫苗有效的话，最短估计也需要六个月的时间。
That is, if phase III clinical trials are completed and it is concluded that the vaccine is effective, the shortest estimate is six months.
科研人员要招募感染和未感染病毒的志愿者进行实验，临床观察这一小部分人的药物水平、副作用情况以及效果。
Researchers recruited volunteers with and without the virus to conduct experiments to observe the drug levels, side effects and effects in a small number of people.
只有在小范围内证明有效，才能推广到更大规模人群中使用，就像Moderna研发的疫苗目前进行的小规模测试，只有成功了才能开展下一阶段临床试验。
It can only be applied to a much larger population if it proves to be effective on a small scale, as is currently the case with small-scale trials of vaccines developed by Moderna, where the next phase of clinical trials will be successful.
考虑到志愿者招募和临床反应等诸多因素，流程很难加速，具体时间则因不同疫苗而异。
Given a variety of factors, including volunteer recruitment and clinical responses, the process is difficult to accelerate and the timing varies from vaccine to vaccine.
例如，抗埃博拉病毒疫苗的临床期为2年时间。
For example, the clinical duration of the Ebola virus vaccine is two years.
该项目于2014年底启动，全球各大药企纷纷参与，在非洲不同国家招募上万位参与试验者。
Launched at the end of 2014, the project has engaged major pharmaceutical companies worldwide, recruiting tens of thousands of participants in different countries in Africa.
2016年被证明有效。
The year 2016 proved to be effective.
但直到2019年11月，世卫组织才首次预认证由默克公司（Merck）生产的埃博拉注射疫苗Ervebo。
But it was not until November 2019 that WHO pre-certified Ervebo, the Ebola vaccine produced by Merck, for the first time.
这一决定推动了Ervebo疫苗向正式投入市场迈出重要一步，但疫情高危国家仍要等到2020年年中才能获得此疫苗。
This decision has helped bring the Ervebo vaccine to market, but countries at high risk will not have access to it until mid-2020.
疫苗开发并非一帆风顺，会面临很大不确定性，很多研发无疾而终。
Vaccine development is not plain sailing, will face great uncertainty, many research and development has not been successful.
不确定性之一就是能否赶在病毒流行结束前成功研发，疫苗在上市推广前，需要在更大范围人群身上测试才能保证安全性。
One of the uncertainties is whether the vaccine can be successfully developed before the end of the epidemic, and before it can be marketed, it needs to be tested on a wider population to ensure safety.
但2003年非典疫苗研发过程中进入大规模测试环节时，疫情已快结束，没有病人可做测试。
But by the time the SARS vaccine was tested on a large scale in 2003, the epidemic was almost over and no patients could be tested.
疫情带来的不确定性让科研人员担忧疫苗研发工作是否会因疫情结束最终半途而废。
The uncertainty surrounding the outbreak has raised concerns among researchers about whether vaccine research and development will end halfway through the epidemic.
这个问题困扰着很多科研人员，美国梅奥诊所疫苗研究部主任、VACCINE杂志主编格里高利·波兰（Gregory Poland）就坦言，当疫情成为新闻头条时，政府就砸钱去做研究。
This is a problem that plagues many researchers, as Gregory Poland, director of vaccine research at the Mayo Clinic in the United States and editor-in-chief of VACCINE magazine, admits that when the epidemic makes headlines, governments spend money on research.
但疫情新闻一消失，科研资助就没了。
But as soon as the news of the epidemic disappears, funding for research is gone.
制药公司研发疫苗资金有限，不可能一直做研究，就像 Moderna如果没有CEPI资助，根本无法独自承担开发新冠疫苗费用。
Pharmaceutical companies "limited funding for vaccine development makes it impossible to do research all the time, just as Moderna simply cannot afford to develop a new crown vaccine without funding from CEPI.
“成功开发预防性或处理公共卫生危机的疫苗十分困难。
"The successful development of vaccines to prevent or manage public health crises is difficult.
通常需要花上大量时间和金钱，”美国生物科技投资者布莱德·隆卡尔（Brad Loncar）说。
It usually takes a lot of time and money, "says Brad Loncar, an American biotech investor.
唐纳德·克莱恩（Ronald Klain）在2014-2015年期间担任美国埃博拉疫情协调员。
Donald Klain served as the United States Ebola Coordinator for the period 2014-2015.
他在智库阿斯彭研究所（Aspen Institute）一个会议上曾无奈地说，“我不为药商工作，我不是他们的粉丝。
"I don't work for drug dealers, I'm not a fan of them," he said at a conference at the Aspen Institute, a think tank.
但不得不说，药商为了生产埃博拉疫苗花了很多钱。
But it has to be said that the drug dealers spent a lot of money on the Ebola vaccine.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫苗研发耗资20亿美元，美国能否领跑？。
Can the United States lead the way in the $2 billion research and development effort?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫苗研发耗资20亿美元，美国能否领跑？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "流行病防范创新联盟CEO理查德·哈切特估算，要足够快地开发出新冠肺炎疫苗，需要在未来12到18个月内花费20亿美元";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Richard Hacht, CEO of the Alliance for Epidemic Prevention Innovation, estimates that AT & C & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
