直击首都机场抗疫最前线：航班大多正常，筛查非常严格。
Straight at the front line of the Capital Airport: Most flights are normal and screening is very rigorous.
姚佳莹 陈亮。
Yao Jia Ying Chen Liang.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
随着国内疫情逐渐得到控制，防止境外疫情输入成为现阶段防疫重点。
With the gradual control of the epidemic situation in China, preventing the importation of foreign epidemic disease has become the focus of epidemic prevention.
从过海关到进入北京地区，如何筛查入境旅客？文 | 《财经》记者 姚佳莹 陈亮 编辑 | 朱弢施智梁相较于以往满列航班信息的显示屏，3月17日下午两点后，首都国际机场T3航站楼的国际/港澳台到达航班信息只有往常的一半，共有13趟航班计划于当日到达。
How do I screen inbound passengers from customs to Beijing? After 2: 00 p.m. on March 17, when international / Hong Kong-Macao-Taiwan flights to T3 at Capital International Airport arrived half as often as usual, a total of 13 flights were scheduled to arrive that day.
其中四趟航班来自港澳台地区，2趟来自韩国首尔，当日已无来自欧洲和美国的航班信息。
Four flights were from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan and two from Seoul. There was no flight information from Europe or the United States.
（首都机场T3-B区，图/《财经》记者姚佳莹）首都机场T3航站楼划分为ABCD四个区，自3月10日起，D区被单独划为处置专区，集中接受来自疫情严重的国家和地区的航班。
The T3 terminal at the Capital Airport has been divided into four ABCD districts. Since March 10, Area D has been designated as a separate disposal area, concentrating on flights from highly affected countries and regions.
3月15日，处置专区停靠航班范围扩大，全部国际/港澳台地区进港航班均需停靠于此。
On 15 March, the range of flights calling at the disposal area was extended to include all international / Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan inbound flights.
停靠航班数量的增加带来了旅客骤增。
The increase in the number of calls has led to a sharp increase in passengers.
3月17日下午，北京市新冠肺炎防疫工作新闻发布会上，北京首都国际机场股份有限公司副总经理赵莹对D区旅客无序聚集的情况作出回应。
On the afternoon of March 17, Zhao Ying, deputy general manager of Beijing Capital International Airport, responded to the disorderly gathering of passengers in Area D.
赵莹表示，在3月15日之前，首都机场的T3-D处置专区每天接纳的航班大约为10余架次，旅客在2000人次左右，而在15日调整后，首日处置专区共运送旅客7252人次，与调整之前相比增长了220%。
Before March 15, the T3-D disposal area of the Capital Airport received about 10 flights and 2,000 passengers a day, Zhao said, adding that after the 15-day adjustment, the area handled 7,252 passengers, an increase of 220 per cent over the pre-adjustment period.
随着国内疫情逐渐得到控制，防止境外疫情输入成为现阶段防疫重点。
With the gradual control of the epidemic situation in China, preventing the importation of foreign epidemic disease has become the focus of epidemic prevention.
17日12时至24时，北京新增2例境外输入病例，分别来自西班牙和英国。
Between 1200 and 2400 hours on the 17th, two new cases of overseas importation were reported from Spain and the United Kingdom.
截至记者发稿时，北京境外输入病例累计为43例，现有确诊39例。
As of the time of press release, 43 cases had been imported from outside Beijing and 39 cases had been confirmed.
那么，作为北京防止境外疫情输入的最前线，入境旅客从过海关到进入北京地区，要经历什么样的防控程序？北京目前境外疫情输入防控局势如何？机场无缝闭环筛查《财经》记者17日在现场看到，T3-D区已呈封闭状态。
So, as the front line of Beijing's efforts to prevent the importation of foreign epidemic diseases, what kind of prevention and control procedures should inbound passengers go through from the customs to Beijing? What is the current situation of the import control of the disease in Beijing?
“除了单辟唯一通道运送旅客出站外，已禁止进入。
"Passengers are not allowed to enter except through a single channel.
”首都机场工作人员向《财经》记者表示。
Capital airport staff told Caijing.
飞友科技数据显示，从3月9日到3月16日，共计248架次国际航班抵达首都机场。
A total of 248 international flights arrived at the capital from March 9 to March 16, according to Feipu's technology data.
以平均每架次200名旅客计算，在这8天内，有将近5万名境外人员经首都机场进入中国。
Based on an average of 200 passengers per flight, nearly 50,000 expatriates entered China via the Capital Airport during the eight-day period.
王慧（化名）来自沈阳，从英国探望女儿后回国的她，辗转约40小时到达北京新国展时已将近3月17日晚7点。
Wang Hui (not her real name) is from Shenyang. She arrived in Beijing nearly 40 hours after visiting her daughter from the UK at 7 pm on March 17.
“飞机落地停稳后，我们不能立刻下机，在飞机上等了两个多小时。
"After the plane stopped, we couldn't get off immediately and waited on the plane for more than two hours.
要先填入境健康申明卡申报健康信息，在空乘人员确保所有旅客均填写信息并核对后，才放我们进入卫生检疫通道，进行落地后的第一次体温测量，我们在飞行中已测了两次体温。
Health information is required to be declared on an immigration health declaration card. We have our temperature taken twice in flight after the flight attendants ensure that all passengers fill in the information and check it before we are released into the health quarantine corridor for the first body temperature measurement since landing.
”王慧告诉《财经》记者。
"Wang told Caijing.
从登机到下机，机组检测是防疫的第一线。
Unit detection is the first line of epidemic prevention from boarding to disembarkation.
根据民航局发布的第三版《运输航空公司、机场疫情防控技术指南》，根据航班始发地疫情、客座率、航班运行特点等信息，将综合评估航班运行风险，共分为高、中、低三个等级，分别采取不同的防控措施。
According to the third edition of the Technical Guide for the Prevention and Control of Epidemic Diseases of Transport Airlines and Airports issued by the Civil Aviation Administration, flight operation risks will be comprehensively assessed on the basis of information on the origin, passenger rate and flight operation characteristics.
对于低风险航班，主要是保障人流物流畅通，根据需要进行体温检测，机组佩戴一次性医用口罩；对于中风险航班，增加了客舱布局设计、减少人员流动等措施，在航行中对旅客进行体温检测；对于高风险航班，机上服务流程将减少，并分区管理旅客，分散就坐，同时在每个航班的后三排预留应急事件处理隔离区。
For low-risk flights, mainly to ensure smooth flow of passengers, temperature testing is carried out as needed, disposable medical masks are worn; for medium-risk flights, measures such as cabin layout design, reduced movement of people and temperature testing of passengers during flights are added; and for high-risk flights, flight service flow will be reduced and passengers will be managed and dispersed, with emergency response areas reserved in the last three rows of each flight.
国航方面回复《财经》记者称，3月1日至3月15日滚动统计显示，“境外进京”航班在登机前因体温超标暂不运输旅客76人，共涉及23个航班，飞行途中检测体温超标落地移交检疫67人，涉及44个航班。
Air China responded to Caijing's report that rolling statistics from March 1 to March 15 showed that 76 passengers from overseas flights were temporarily suspended due to excessive body temperature before boarding, involving 23 flights.
第二道防线是海关检查。
The second line of defence is customs control.
“海关工作人员详细询问了始发地、航班号、座位号、境外呆了几天、抵京前是否中转、到北京后是否还需转机等信息，然后才放行过关。
"Customs officials asked in detail about the place of origin, flight number, seat number, stay abroad for a few days, whether there was any transit before arriving in Beijing and whether there was any need for connections after Beijing, before releasing them.
提取行李时，行李都已经消毒，”王慧告诉《财经》记者，“必须一关一关地通关，全程都在机场警察和海关人员的管控之下”。
The luggage was disinfected at the time it was taken, "Wang told Caijing." It must be cleared through customs, all the way under the control of airport police and customs officers. "
与机场检测形成闭环的还有新国展的第二轮检测和分流。
The second round of detection and diversion of the New National Exhibition also forms a closed loop with airport detection.
“所有入境人员都在唯一的出口等候转运车辆，接我们到新国展进行第二轮体温筛查。
"All the immigration personnel are waiting for the transshipment vehicles at the only exit to take us to the new exhibition for the second round of temperature screening.
”王慧说。
"said Wang Hui.
还需进行第二轮检测新国展距离首都机场T3航站楼不到6公里，占地约10.7万平方米，这个以往作为商业展示的区域，如今成了境外人员出机场后，进行第二次隔离检查的唯一地点。
A second round of testing is also required, less than 6 kilometres from the T3 terminal at the capital airport, covering an area of about 107,000 square metres, a previously commercially showcased area that is now the only place for people from outside the country to be screened for a second time after they leave the airport.
“体温检查、登记信息，前后我花了近8个小时，有的人甚至更久。
"It took me almost eight hours, some even longer, to get my temperature checked and checked in.
”王慧说。
"said Wang Hui.
（新国展E3门，图/《财经》记者姚佳莹）在新国展唯一的入口E3门处，来自各省市的接驳车进出频繁。
(New China Development E3, photo / Caijing reporter Yao Jia Ying) At the E3 entrance to the New National Exhibition, the feeder cars from all provinces and cities frequently enter and exit.
“我们就是中转站，主要负责接转境外中转北京，再到沈阳的旅客。
We are the transit point, mainly responsible for overseas transit to Beijing, and then to Shenyang passengers.
境外旅客在新国展进行第二次检测后，体温正常的人员，由新国展工作人员登记分流到各省驻京办，再分到各市驻京办，由各市驻京办根据旅客行程，负责酒店往返、机场和火车站的接送，”沈阳市驻京办工作人员告诉《财经》记者，“北京市分配给沈阳入境人员的酒店有两家”。
"There are two hotels in Beijing for the entry of people from Shenyang," Shenyang's Beijing office told Caijing, after the second check-up by overseas visitors at the new exhibition, people with normal body temperature are assigned to provincial offices in Beijing and then to the Beijing offices of cities.
（北京驰援大连接驳车，图/《财经》记者姚佳莹）在新国展E5停车场，记者注意到，不少省市驻京办安排了接驳车辆接转境外人员，此外，北京市还增派车辆驰援。
The reporter noticed that many provincial and municipal offices in Beijing arranged to transfer feeder vehicles to and from overseas, in addition to increasing the number of vehicles in Beijing to assist them.
一名来自北京的司机主要驰援大连，“除了大连的专车大巴，我们这两天也刚刚加入接转”。
A driver from Beijing, mainly from Dalian, "in addition to Dalian's bus, we have just joined the two-day transfer."
与其他省市主要使用公务用车不同，河北沧州市动用了120等医疗救护车辆加入接转，每辆车配备一名医务人员。
Unlike other cities and provinces, which use official vehicles, Cangzhou City, Hebei Province, used 120 medical rescue vehicles to join the transfer, each equipped with a medical personnel.
“体温异常的将被送往地坛医院做核酸检测，正常的我们就直接接回沧州，同一飞机的旅客同一趟车。
"The abnormal body temperature will be sent to the Ditan Hospital for nucleic acid testing, normal we will be directly back to Cangzhou, the same plane passengers on the same bus.
到达沧州后，在指定隔离点隔离14天，由政府全额出资。
Upon arrival in Cangzhou, the site was isolated for 14 days at full cost to the Government.
”一名医务人员告诉《财经》记者。
A medical worker told Caijing.
（省市驻京办人员登记、核查旅客信息，图/《财经》记者姚佳莹）自2月29日起，北京地坛医院开始接收机场转送的筛查人员，截至3月17日8时，由首都机场送至北京地坛医院需进行境外输入人员筛查的共计1601例。
Since February 29, the Beijing Ditan Hospital has been receiving screening personnel from the airport. As of 0800 hours on March 17, a total of 1,601 cases had been sent from the Capital Airport to the Beijing Ditan Hospital for screening of incoming personnel.
3 月 15 日，地坛医院副院长吴国安曾表示，由于接诊压力巨大，地坛医院几天内紧急增加 10 位医生，22 位护士和15位警察，新开疑似病房为患者提供单间隔离。
On March 15, Vice-Dean of Ditan Hospital Wu Kwok-an said the hospital had added 10 doctors, 22 nurses and 15 policemen to the hospital in a matter of days because of the pressure to take care of the patients.
3月17日有网传消息称，自3月18日始，所有进京的国际航班将转飞国内其他机场，北京不再接受国际航班。
Since March 18, all international flights to Beijing will be diverted to other domestic airports and Beijing will no longer accept international flights, according to online news reports on March 17.
北京入境航班先分流到天津，石家庄，太原，呼和浩特等机场，在当地做疫情筛查，有症状的就地治疗，没症状的再转飞北京。
Beijing's inbound flights first shunt to Tianjin, Shijiazhuang, Taiyuan, Huhhot and other airports, where the disease is screened, symptomatic on-site treatment, and no symptoms of re-flight to Beijing.
《财经》记者就此信息向民航局求证，至发稿前，对方未予置评，有业内人士透露，该方案尚未得到审批。
Caijing reporter on this information to the Civil Aviation Authority, until the draft, the other party did not comment, the industry has revealed that the proposal has not been approved.
截至3月18日11时的首都机场信息显示，仍有来自美国、英国、西班牙、韩国、日本等国家的航班入港，大部分的国际航班信息均显示正常状态。
According to Capital Airport information at 1100 hours on March 18, flights from the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain, South Korea and Japan are still arriving, and most international flight information shows normal conditions.
为分担境外人员筛查压力，北京已于16日重启小汤山医院，主要用于境外来（返）京人员中需筛查人员、疑似病例及轻型、普通型确诊患者治疗。
In order to share the pressure of external screening, Beijing has re-opened the Xiaotangshan Hospital on the 16th, mainly for overseas visitors (returned) to screen personnel, suspected cases and the treatment of patients diagnosed with light, ordinary.
目前，北京小汤山医院设床位1000余张，将对确诊病例或疑似病例收进医院进行治疗，对筛查后未发现异常的旅客将由目的地省份以安全适宜方式接运回本地。
At present, Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital has more than 1,000 beds, will be confirmed or suspected cases will be admitted to the hospital for treatment, the screening of non-abnormal passengers will be by the destination provinces in a safe and appropriate way back to the local.
(《财经》记者王静仪对本文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 阮璐阳 luyangruan@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Caijing Wang contributed to this article) Updated: 2009-03-12 10: 48 Ruyuyangruan @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直击首都机场抗疫最前线：航班大多正常，筛查非常严格。
Straight at the front line of the Capital Airport: Most flights are normal and screening is very rigorous.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "直击首都机场抗疫最前线：航班大多正常，筛查非常严格";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "随着国内疫情逐渐得到控制，防止境外疫情输入成为现阶段防疫重点。
var msg _ desc = & quot; With the domestic epidemic gradually under control, preventing imports from abroad has become the focus of epidemic prevention at this stage.
从过海关到进入北京地区，如何筛查入境旅客？";。
; How do you screen inbound passengers from customs to Beijing?;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
