加紧筛查！境外输入多例无症状感染者，重启小汤山分流筛查任务。
Step up screening! Input many cases of asymptomatic infection, restart Xiaotangshan shunt screening task.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
无症状感染者在入关后，辗转回到目的省份仍未病发，但被及时发现核酸检测结果为阳性，目前这一群体的比例小，发现后及时隔离、治疗，排查密切接触者，不足以影响城市复工计划文|《财经》记者 辛颖 周源 实习记者 朱贺编辑 | 王小连续数日，中国内地多省市已无本地新增确诊病例，然而，境外输入型病例正在扩散，尤其是无症状感染者，正是压力之一。
The proportion of asymptomatic patients returning to their destination province after admission is still positive, but their DNA testing results are positive. Currently, the group is small, and isolation, treatment, and close contacts are insufficient to influence urban renewal programmes.
作为重要国际口岸的北京近日接连增加防控措施，山东的无症状感染者病例即从北京中转。
Beijing, an important international port, has recently stepped up control measures, with cases of asymptomatic infection in Shandong transiting through Beijing.
一位42岁的山东省德州市庆云县男子，3月9日凌晨到达北京首都国际机场，随即乘坐庆云县安排的专车回到当地集中隔离点。
A 42-year-old man from Qingyun County, Shandong Province, arrived at Beijing's Capital International Airport in the early morning of March 9 and returned to the central isolation area by special bus arranged by Qingyun County.
3月11日，该男子的新冠病毒核酸检测结果显示呈阳性，经专家组评估确定为无症状感染者。
On 11 March, the man tested positive for the new crown virus nucleic acid, which the Group assessed as asymptomatic.
山东德州市疾控中心将信息同步给北京，会同海关、公安等部门排查追踪密切接触者，截至发布前已追踪到10人，全部集中隔离医学观察。
The CDC in Dezhou, Shandong Province, synchronizes information with Beijing, and works with customs, public security and other departments to track down close contacts.
3月17日，山东、四川、云南、贵州四省公布的境外输入型病例中，均出现无症状感染者。
On March 17, four provinces of Shandong, Sichuan, Yunnan and Guizhou reported cases of asymptomatic infection.
他们大多入关后辗转回到目的省份仍未病发，但被及时发现核酸检测结果为阳性。
Most of them toiled back to their destination province, but were found to be positive for nucleic acid tests in time.
一位疾控系统的研究人员向《财经》记者介绍，其在疫情早期所进行的新冠肺炎确诊患者密切接触者小样本筛查中，出现不到40例无症状感染者，跟踪结果目前已经全部出现症状发病。
A Caijing researcher told Caijing that less than 40 cases of asymptomatic infection appeared in the small sample screening of close contacts of patients diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia in the early stages of the outbreak.
有研究者认为，无症状感染者也有传染性。
Some researchers believe asymptomatic infections can also be contagious.
因而，中国疾控系统对无症状感染者一直密切监控。
As a result, China's disease control system has been closely monitoring asymptomatic infections.
在2月5日，国家疾控中心曾要求无症状感染者暂时计入确诊病例合并报告，两天后《新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案(第四版)》再次要求单独报告，且数据不对外公开。
On February 5, the CDC asked asymptomatic patients to be included in the combined report of confirmed cases for the time being, and two days later the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Program (version 4) again requested separate reporting, with the data not being made public.
一位浙江疾控系统专家告诉《财经》记者，现有全国传染病与突发公共卫生事件监测信息系统里将新冠肺炎相关人群分为三类，确诊患者、疑似患者和无症状感染者。
A Zhejiang disease control system expert told Caijing that the existing national information system for surveillance of infectious diseases and public health emergencies divides the New Crown Pneumonia-related population into three categories: confirmed patients, suspected patients and asymptomatic infected persons.
3月12日凌晨，杭州疾控中心公布了一名无症状新冠肺炎感染者。
In the early morning of March 12, Hangzhou CDC announced an asymptomatic new crown pneumonia.
这名男士从事国际交流服务工作，近14日内与境外高风险国家人员有过接触。
This man engaged in international exchange service, nearly 14 days with the overseas high-risk countries personnel have had contacts.
除了境外输入的无症状感染者，本地的也是城市解除隔离复工后的风险因素之一。
In addition to the foreign importation of asymptomatic infection, local isolation is also one of the urban risk factors after the resumption of work isolation.
美国加州大学洛杉矶分校公共卫生学院副院长、流行病学资深终身教授张作风对《财经》记者分析，对所谓的无症状感染者，我们首先要排除检测试剂的假阳性，已确认无症状感染者，稳妥的方法是隔离14天。
Zhang style, vice-dean and senior professor of epidemiology at UCLA School of Public Health, told Caijing that for so-called asymptomatic infections, we have to rule out false positives first, asymptomatic infections have been identified, and isolation is a safe method for 14 days.
但这一群体的比例很小，发病后后及时隔离、治疗，排查密切接触者即可，不足以影响城市复工计划。
However, the proportion of this group is very small, after the disease in a timely isolation, treatment, screening close contacts can be insufficient to affect urban plans to resume work.
无症状感染者后续发病3月7日，上述42岁德州男子从美国奥兰多出发，经纽约转机，9日凌晨到达北京首都国际机场，体温检测无异常。
The 42-year-old Texan man arrived at Beijing's Capital International Airport in the early hours of Monday morning with no abnormalities in body temperature tests, according to state media reported Wednesday.
随即乘坐庆云县安排的专车回到当地集中隔离点。
Then took the special bus arranged by Qingyun County to return to the local concentrated isolation point.
3月11日，该男子的新冠病毒核酸检测结果显示呈阳性，随即被送至庆云县定点医院隔离治疗，入院后进行血液检查、CT肺部影像检查，均无异常，经专家组评估确定为无症状感染者。
On 11 March, the man tested positive for the new crown virus nucleic acid and was immediately sent to Qingyun County designated hospital for isolation, blood tests and CT lung imaging, all of which were assessed by the Group as asymptomatic.
四天后（3月15日），上述山东德州的无症状感染者出现咳嗽、咳痰症状，无发热以及其它不适，复查胸部CT显示左肺单发磨玻璃斑片影。
Four days later (March 15), the asymptomatic infection in Shandong Province developed cough, cough and sputum symptoms without fever and other discomfort.
3月16日，经专家组评估确诊，当天下午转送至山东省定点医院进行隔离治疗。
On 16 March, after being assessed and confirmed by the Panel, the same afternoon was transferred to a designated hospital in Shandong Province for isolation treatment.
无独有偶，其他无症状感染者也有后续发病。
Coincidentally, other asymptomatic infected persons also have subsequent morbidity.
云南省境外输入病例之一。
Yunnan Province, one of the imported cases.
一位26岁女性，3月13日从法国巴黎乘机经广州入境，广州机场海关采样后放行。
A 26-year-old woman flew from Paris, France, via Guangzhou on March 13 and cleared by customs at Guangzhou airport.
3月14日到达昆明长水机场，送至昆明市集中隔离点。
March 14 arrived in Kunming Changshui Airport, sent to Kunming City concentrated isolation point.
当晚18时，广州机场海关向昆明海关通报，患者新冠病毒核酸检测阳性，立即被转至省传染病医院隔离观察。
At 18: 00 that night, Guangzhou airport customs informed Kunming Customs that the patient was positive for the new crown virus nucleic acid test and was immediately transferred to provincial infectious disease hospital for observation.
3月15日凌晨采样检测，新冠病毒核酸阳性，无发热、咳嗽等临床症状，诊断为无症状感染者。
March 15 early morning sampling and testing, Nucleic acid positive, no fever, cough and other clinical symptoms, diagnosis of asymptomatic infected.
3月16日，患者即出现临床症状，结合流行病学史、临床表现和实验室检测结果，确诊轻型。
On 16 March, the patient developed clinical symptoms and was diagnosed with light weight in combination with epidemiological history, clinical manifestations and laboratory findings.
经排查，其密切接触者共有20人。
A total of 20 close contacts were identified.
根据通报信息，贵州与四川的无症状感染者目前尚未发病。
According to the information reported, Guizhou and Sichuan asymptomatic infection has not yet developed.
3月17日，四川绵阳市卫生健康委员会官网发布消息，3月13日从西班牙返绵人员罗某某，为无症状感染者，目前正在定点医院接受医学隔离观察，同机的25名密切接触者和与其接触的2名家人已落实集中隔离观察措施。
A group of 25 close contacts and two family members in contact with the hospital in Mianyang, Sichuan Province, who returned to China on March 13 for asymptomatic infection, are being medically quarantined, and 25 close contacts and two family members in contact with them have put in place intensive quarantine measures.
贵州省贵阳市的病例是由伦敦经香港转机到成都后乘坐高铁，于3月15日23时43分到达贵阳北站，由其父母驾私家车接回家中实行居家隔离观察。
The case in Guiyang City, Guizhou Province, was reported to have arrived at Guiyang North Station at 23: 43 pm on March 15 on a high-speed train from London via Hong Kong to Chengdu.
当天下午，成都海关通报贵阳海关其核酸检测为阳性，晚19时患者即被转入将军山医院进一步检测和治疗。
In the afternoon of the same day, Chengdu Customs informed Guiyang Customs that its nucleic acid test was positive, at 19 p.m. the patient was transferred to Tseung Kwan Shan Hospital for further testing and treatment.
其无发热、无呼吸道症状、血常规正常、胸部CT为陈旧性病变，经省级专家组讨论，确认为无症状感染者。
It has no fever, no respiratory symptoms, normal blood routine, chest CT for old lesions, after provincial expert group discussion, confirmed as asymptomatic infected.
上述浙江省疾控专家表示，将无症状感染者单独分类有其合理性，因为没有症状就无须按照有症状去治疗，只有这些无症状感染者出现了症状，才能转为确诊病例。
CDC experts in Zhejiang say it makes sense to classify asymptomatic infections separately, because symptomatic treatment is not required, and asymptomatic infections can be turned into confirmed cases only if they develop symptoms.
但由于无症状感染者也有传染性，所以从流行病防控角度来看，找出这些无症状感染者非常重要，找到并他们管理起来，才能避免继续传染他人。
But since asymptomatic infections are also contagious, identifying these asymptomatic infections is important from an epidemiological point of view, finding and managing these asymptomatic infections is essential in order to avoid further transmission.
北京启动小汤山分流筛查压力随着境外回国人员增多，北京、上海、广州、深圳等地近日防控境外输入措施接连升级，尤其是要加强检测。
As the number of people returning from abroad has increased, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen have stepped up measures to prevent and control overseas imports, especially to strengthen testing.
3月16日起，改造后的北京小汤山医院正式启动，主要对海关检疫后有风险人员进行筛查，疑似病例及轻型、普通型确诊患者治疗。
Since March 16, the renovated Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital has been officially launched, mainly screening people at risk after customs quarantine, suspected cases and treatment of patients diagnosed with light and ordinary types.
北京市卫健委新闻发言人高小俊向《财经》记者介绍，境外输入型病例以轻症患者为主，如果出现重症，可在小汤山医院治疗或转至地坛医院等定点医院，视病情而定。
Foreign cases of imported cases are mainly light cases and can be treated at Xiaotangshan Hospital or referred to designated hospitals such as Ditan Hospital depending on the patient's condition, said Gao Xiaojun, a spokesman for the Beijing Fitness and Health Commission.
目前，小汤山医院有1600余张床位，从22家市属医院中抽调了600余名医护人员。
At present, Xiaotangshan Hospital has more than 1,600 beds, and more than 600 medical personnel have been transferred from 22 municipal hospitals.
对筛查后未发现异常的回国人员，将由目的地省份接回本地，京内旅客由各区接回，实施集中隔离医学观察14天。
Returnees who do not find any abnormalities after the screening will be taken back to their home countries by the provinces of destination, and the visitors within the capital will be collected back by all districts for 14 days.
一位知情人士向《财经》记者介绍，北京地坛医院早已开始准备，为收治国际患者或开展医学观察者准备了500—600张床位。
A person familiar with the matter told Caijing that the Beijing Ditan Hospital had been preparing 500-600 beds for international patients or medical observers.
自2月29日，北京出现首例境外输入确诊病例以来，北京地坛医院开始负责机场送达有症状人员的集中筛查和收治工作，至3月17日8时，确诊38例，治愈3例，在院疑似病例37例。
Since February 29, when Beijing's first confirmed case was imported from abroad, Beijing Ditan Hospital has been responsible for intensive screening and admission of symptomatic patients at the airport. By 0800 hours on March 17, 38 cases had been diagnosed, 3 cases cured and 37 cases suspected in the hospital.
虽然确诊、疑似病例有限，但筛查压力巨大。
Although the number of confirmed and suspected cases is limited, screening pressure is high.
北京地坛医院院长李昂3月17日在北京市疫情防控新闻发布会上介绍，截止3月17日，由首都机场送至地坛医院需进行境外输入人员筛查的共计1601例。
Li Ang, director of Beijing Ditan Hospital, told a news conference on March 17 that, as of March 17, 1,601 cases had been sent from the capital airport to Ditan Hospital for overseas screening.
一位3月17日从德国返京人员告诉《财经》记者在机场等待近11小时，18日凌晨3点到达地坛医院，到上午十点仍未开始筛查检测，不清楚还要等多久。
A German returnee told Caijing on March 17 that he had waited at the airport for nearly 11 hours before arriving at Ditan Hospital at 3 a.m. on the 18th.
地坛医院工作人员向《财经》记者介绍，筛查人数快速增长至近300人是近三、四天的事，之前每天不会超过100人。
The rapid increase in the number of screeners to nearly 300 was in the last three to four days and did not exceed 100 a day, Ditan Hospital staff told Caijing.
为适应境外到京人员来院筛查的需求，地坛医院增加检测人员和设备，提升检测能力。
In order to meet the demand of the overseas visitors to Beijing, the Ditan Hospital has increased its staff and equipment to enhance its detection capability.
“咽拭子核酸检测24小时全天候进行，由每日的2次增加至5次。
"The pharyngeal swab nucleic acid test was performed 24 hours a day, increasing from two to five per day.
”李昂表示，调配1辆移动采血车，加快抽血采样速度；启用备用CT，开通专用通道，2部CT24小时持续为筛查人员服务。
Li said the deployment of a mobile blood-collection vehicle would speed up the sampling of blood, the introduction of a standby CT, the opening of a dedicated channel and the continued operation of two CT24-hour screening personnel.
同时，地坛医院还拓展开放5个留观病区，及3个疑似病区，增加了等候帐篷及椅子、移动厕所，并提供24小时餐饮配送。
At the same time, Ditan Hospital has expanded the opening of five visiting areas and three suspected disease areas, added waiting tents and chairs, mobile toilets, and provided 24-hour catering delivery.
小汤山将逐步为这一筛查压力分流。
Xiaotangshan will be gradually for this screening pressure shunt.
高小俊介绍，小汤山医院运行首日，共接收机场转运35人。
Gao Xiaojun introduced that the first day of operation of Xiaotangshan Hospital, a total of 35 transfer airport.
经筛查，有1例来自英国的女性被确诊，其余结果待报。
One woman from the United Kingdom was screened and the remaining results are pending.
“这也是史上第一次遇到如此巨大的海外输入病例风险。
"It is also the first time in history that such a huge risk of overseas importation has been encountered.
”北京协和医学院公共卫生学院院长刘远立对《财经》记者说，我们的第二场战役就是要打赢国际阻击战，好在经过前一段时间的国内战“疫”，我们的技术力量、动员能力、领导能力，都已经有所准备。
'Our second battle is to win the international fight, 'Liu Yuanli, dean of the Beijing Concorde Medical School's School of Public Health, told Caijing.
总体形势还是向好的，北京也会逐步复工、复产、复学。
The overall situation is still good, and Beijing will gradually resume work, production and education.
无症状感染者年龄组偏低针对无症状感染者的流行病学研究是全球在关注的课题，以期能够对后续疫情防控措施有所建议。
The epidemiology of asymptomatic infection in asymptomatic infection age group is a global concern in order to be able to provide recommendations for the prevention and control of the disease.
“很少有传染病在未发病的情况下具备传染性，如果新冠病毒确实有此特点，那么确实很狡猾”。
"There are very few infectious diseases that are not contagious, and if the new crown virus does have it, it's really cunning," he said.
张作风指出，也有可能是患者有轻症，或者没有咳嗽、肺部症状，但是有肠道等其他症状，对于无症状感染者我们还需要更全面的追踪、研究。
Zhang style pointed out that patients may also have mild illness, or did not cough, lung symptoms, but there are other symptoms such as intestinal symptoms, we need more comprehensive tracking, research.
目前最大样本数据，来自中国疾控中心2月17日发布的一篇论文。
The largest sample data so far comes from a paper released Feb. 17 by the China CDC.
中国疾控中心研究人员对截至2月11日中国内地传染病报告信息系统中上报的所有新型冠状病毒肺炎病例，共72314例进行描述和分析，其中，呼吸道等标本新型冠状病毒病原学检测为阳性的微无症状感染者，无症状感染者889例（1.2%）。
Chinese CDC researchers described and analyzed 72,314 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia reported in the Information System for Reporting Infectious Diseases in the Mainland as of February 11. Of these, 889 cases (1.2%) were asymptomatic patients tested positive for a new coronavirus etiology.
张作风分析，这个比例已经很低了，不需要过度紧张。
Zhang style analysis, this ratio is already very low, do not need to over-stress.
尤其国内大部分人已经隔离14天以上，如果没发病的话，在复工以后再发病的可能性虽然有，还是比较小，从2月10日各地已陆续复工，但是目前也没有看到一个明显的确诊病例升高，这就是实际的数据支撑。
Most people in the country, in particular, have been isolated for more than 14 days and, if they do not, the possibility of restarting work, albeit small, after the resumption of work on 10 February, has not yet seen a significant increase in confirmed cases, which is the actual data support.
而在不同的样本研究中也有更多发现，儿童无症状感染者比例较高是其中之一。
And in different sample studies also found more children asymptomatic infection rate is one of them.
3月6日，湖南省疾控中心的研究人员研究回顾性分析了，2020年1月1日—2月8日湖南省新冠肺炎确诊病例及无症状感染者的流行病学特征。
A retrospective analysis of epidemiological characteristics of confirmed and asymptomatic cases of Xinguan Pneumonia in Hunan Province from January 1 to February 8, 2020 was analyzed retrospectively by researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Hunan Province.
研究表明，湖南省 888 例新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例和无症状感染者中，36例无症状感染者占4%。
The results showed that 36 cases of asymptomatic infection accounted for 4% of the 888 confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia in Hunan Province.
无症状感染者中位年龄35岁(2~88岁)，相对多发低龄组人群，其中3~5岁组、6~15岁组各占11.2%(4/36)。
The median age of asymptomatic infected persons was 35 years old (2 ~ 88 years old), and a relatively high number of young people, 11.2% (4 / 36) were aged 3-5 and 6-15 years respectively.
该研究已发表在期刊《实用预防医学》。
The study was published in the journal Practical Preventive Medicine.
研究最后指出，由于无症状感染者具有隐匿性，往往无法得到及时发现和规范管理，实际新冠肺炎无症状感染者可能被低估，这些人群很容易成为批量行走的传染源，加上其在少儿群体相对多发，对下阶段全省疫情防控，尤其是迎接即将开启的复课潮，形成倍增压力。
The study concluded that asymptomatic infections are often not detected and regulated in a timely manner, that asymptomatic cases of pneumonia may be underestimated and that these populations can easily become a source of infection for mass travel, coupled with the relatively high prevalence of asymptomatic infections among young children, creating a multiplying pressure for next stage of disease prevention and control throughout the province, especially in anticipation of the impending resumption of classes.
在南京的样本中也出现相似情况。
A similar situation occurred in the Nanjing sample.
一个发布于3月4日研究显示，南京中医药大学和南京医科大学的研究人员从江苏省南京市确诊病例或疑似病例的密切接触者中，筛选出24名无症状患者，进行了临床和社区流行病学调查，这一调查于2020年1月28日至2月9日进行。
Researchers from Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine and Nanjing Medical University screened 24 asymptomatic patients from close contacts with confirmed or suspected cases in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, and conducted a clinical and community epidemiological survey from January 28 to February 9, 2020, according to a study published on March 4.
24例无症状患者，在进行核酸筛查时均未出现明显症状。
In 24 asymptomatic patients, there were no obvious symptoms during nucleic acid screening.
5例(20.8%)在住院期间出现发热、咳嗽、乏力等症状。
In 5 cases (20.8%), fever, cough and fatigue occurred during hospitalization.
12例(50.0%)患者的胸部CT表现为典型的磨玻璃状，5例(20.8%)表现为肺部条状阴影。
The chest CT findings of 12 patients (50.0%) showed typical grinded vitreous shape, and 5 cases (20.8%) showed pulmonary bar shadow.
其余7例(29.2%)CT图像正常，住院期间无症状，这7例患者的年龄中位数为14.0岁，与其他患者相比年龄较低。
The remaining 7 cases (29.2%) showed normal CT images and asymptomatic hospitalization. The median age of the 7 patients was 14.0 years, which was lower than that of other patients.
无症状感染者的传播速度也是关注点之一。
The speed at which asymptomatic infections spread is also a concern.
流行病的传播速度有两个决定因素，一是，每个病例感染了多少人；二是，人与人之间感染需要多长时间，也称世代间隔。
The rate of transmission of the epidemic is determined by the number of people infected in each case and by the length of time it takes for human-to-human transmission, also known as intergenerational spacing.
3月8日，比利时与荷兰的研究人员在医学预印本网站medrxiv上发布了题为《基于症状出现数据预估新冠病毒的世代间隔》的研究，其对新加坡和中国天津感染病例的分析显示，这两个地区分别有48%和62%的患者，通过接触已经感染了病毒但尚未出现症状的感染者患上新冠肺炎。
On 8 March, researchers from Belgium and the Netherlands published a study entitled "Estimating generational intervals of the new crown virus based on symptom-based data" on the medical pre-print website medrxiv, which analysed cases of infection in Singapore and Tianjin, China, where 48 per cent and 62 per cent of patients, respectively, developed pneumonia through contact with infected but not yet symptomatic infected persons.
并据此计算出，新加坡病例的平均世代间隔是5.2天，中国天津病例的平均世代间隔是3.95天。
The mean generation interval between cases in Singapore was 5.2 days and that in Tianjin, China, it was 3.95 days.
3月13日，美国、中国和法国的研究学者在医学预印本网站medRxiv发布了题为《公开报告的确诊病例中新冠病毒的序列间隔》的研究，对2020年1月21日至2月8日期间，中国大陆除湖北省外地区的468份新冠患者传播报告进行分析，每份传播报告包括感染者和被感染者可能出现症状的日期和可能的感染地点。
On March 13, US, Chinese, and French researchers published a study entitled "Sequence of Newly Coronary Virus in Publicly Reported Confirmed Cases" on the pre-printed medical website medRxiv, which analysed 468 new cases of human transmission in mainland China, excluding Hubei Province, from January 21 to February 8, 2020.
研究发现，有10%以上的患者是由携带病毒但尚未出现症状的人感染的。
The study found that more than 10 per cent of patients were infected by people with the virus who had not yet developed symptoms.
468份报告中，有59份报告表明被感染者出现症状的时间早于感染者。
Of 468 reports, 59 indicated that infected persons developed symptoms earlier than those infected.
因此，可能会出现症状前传播的现象。
As a result, pre-symptomatic transmission may occur.
该研究是首批估算无症状传播率的研究之一。
The study was one of the first to estimate asymptomatic transmission rates.
在这一研究中，研究人员认为，中国新型冠状病毒的平均序列间隔约为4天。
In this study, the researchers believe that the average sequence interval of the new coronavirus in China is about four days.
“数据表明新型冠状病毒可能像流感一样传播。
"The data suggest that the new coronavirus could spread like the flu.
这意味着我们需要迅速采取积极行动，遏制正在出现的威胁，”参与该研究的学者，来自得克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(UT Austin)综合生物学教授劳伦·安塞尔·梅耶斯(Lauren Ancel Meyers)公开介绍。
That means we need to act quickly to contain emerging threats, "said Lauren Ancel Meyers, a professor of integrated biology at the University of Texas at Austin and a scholar involved in the study.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
加紧筛查！境外输入多例无症状感染者，重启小汤山分流筛查任务。
Step up screening! Input many cases of asymptomatic infection, restart Xiaotangshan shunt screening task.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "加紧筛查！境外输入多例无症状感染者，重启小汤山分流筛查任务";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "无症状感染者在入关后，辗转回到目的省份仍未病发，但被及时发现核酸检测结果为阳性，目前这一群体的比例小，发现后";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
