哀悼李文亮，应给“吹哨人”正名。
Condolences Li Wenliang, should give the "whistler" the proper name.
辛省志。
Think hard.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
全文共1529字，阅读大约需要3分钟。
The full text is 1529 words and takes about three minutes to read.
训诫书犹在，“吹哨人”何以安息？人们还希望看到对李文亮等人的训诫能得到纠正，让付出了巨大代价的“吹哨人”能得到正名。
One would also like to see the sermons of Li Wenliang and others be corrected, and the "whistleblowers" who paid such a high price be given their rightful names.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 辛省志责任编辑 | 陈斌2020年2月6日晚上，全中国亿万网友彻夜难眠，为李文亮医生祈祷。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
包括本报记者在内的多家媒体记者，在武汉市中心医院苦苦守候。
Many media reporters, including this one, are waiting in Wuhan Central Hospital.
这位被称为此次新冠肺炎疫情“吹哨人”的武汉医生早前已感染病毒，病危之后，6日晚一会儿传出去世的消息，一会儿又传出还在抢救中，前后反转了几次。
The Wuhan doctor, dubbed the "whistle-blower" of the new outbreak of pneumonia, had been infected with the virus and was critically ill.
7日0：38分，其所在的武汉中心医院发布微博说“目前病危，正在全力抢救中”。
7 0: 38, its location in Wuhan Central Hospital issued Weibo said that "is critically ill, is in full rescue."
03:48分，武汉中心医院再次发布微博称“”李文亮“2月7日凌晨2点58分去世，对此我们深表痛惜和哀悼”。
03: 48, Wuhan Central Hospital issued a Weibo said again, "February 7 at 2: 58 a.m. died, for which we deeply regret and mourn.
这个消息，让无数人洒泪，无数人伤悲。
This news, let countless people shed tears, countless people sad.
在这场灾难中，李医生在早期发出的预警和他随后的遭遇，牵动了亿万人心。
Dr. Lee's early warning of the disaster and his subsequent ordeal touched hundreds of millions of people.
2019年12月30日，武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮在有150人左右的同学群里发布了一条消息，称中心医院急诊科隔离收治了7名SARS确诊病人（随后更正为冠状病毒感染），提醒多在武汉医院工作的同学们小心防范。
On December 30, 2019, Wuhan Central Hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang in a group of about 150 students announced that the Central Hospital Emergency Department isolated seven patients diagnosed with SARS (subsequently corrected to coronavirus infection), reminding students working in Wuhan Hospital to be careful.
他的发言被截图发到群外，在网络广泛传播。
His speech was taped out of the group and circulated widely on the Internet.
但当天深夜，他就被武汉市卫健委叫去询问情况，第二天又被医院监察科约谈。
Later that night, however, he was called by Wuhan Health Care Commission to inquire about the situation, the next day by the hospital inspection section.
2020年1月3日，李文亮又以“传播谣言”被派出所训诫。
On January 3, 2020, Li Wenliang was reprimanded by the police for "spreading rumors."
但是事态后来的发展证明，李文亮医生所说并非谣言。
But subsequent developments proved that what Dr. Lee said was not a rumor.
被训诫后，李文亮医生没有气馁，继续在一线工作，恪尽职守，不幸在几天之后工作中感染了病毒，住院治疗。
After being reprimanded, Dr. Li Wenliang did not lose heart, continued to work in the front line, due diligence, unfortunately a few days later at work contracted the virus, hospital treatment.
有媒体记者1月30日采访他时，他已经住进了重症监护室，但还对记者表示，康复之后仍然要上一线。
When a media reporter interviewed him on January 30, he was in intensive care, but told reporters there was still a front-line after the recovery.
李文亮医生接受采访时表示，自己不在意是否能平反，因为“真相最重要”。
In an interview, Dr. Lee said he didn't care if he could be rehabilitated because "the truth matters."
诚哉斯言。
Don't relax.
正是由于他的发言，让新冠肺炎引起了公众的广泛关注。
It was because of his speech that the New Crown Pneumonia attracted a lot of public attention.
如果能够从那时就开始正视疫情，采取果断的措施，肺炎疫情不至于失控到如今的地步。
If we can start to face the epidemic from then on, and take decisive measures, the pneumonia epidemic will not get out of control.
然而没有如果。
But no ifs.
随后武汉方面通过公安机关“处置”8名“造谣传谣”的医生，让公众和决策层都低估了疫情的严重性，终至在武汉造成如此严峻的局面，全国也受到极大影响。
Wuhan, through the public security organs to "deal with" eight "rumor doctors, so that the public and decision-making levels underestimated the severity of the epidemic, resulting in such a serious situation in Wuhan, the country was also greatly affected.
1月29日，最高法在官方微信公众号发文，从法律层面讨论谣言问题。
On 29 January, the Supreme Court sent an official message to the public discussing rumours at the legal level.
文章说，所谓“谣言”（法律上称为虚假信息）起源于个体认知能力的局限，更起源于信息公开的不及时、不透明。
The article said that the so-called "rumor" (legally referred to as false information) originates from the limitation of individual cognitive ability, but also from the untimely and opaque nature of information disclosure.
解决谣言问题，信息公开是治本。
To solve the rumor problem, information disclosure is the root cause.
如果政府信息公开及时准确，谣言就会失去市场。
If government information is made public and accurate, rumours will lose their market.
反之，如果“谣言”一次次被证实是“遥遥领先的预言”，那么在突发事件面前，民众会自然地选择相信谣言。
If, on the other hand, "rumors" prove to be "far ahead of the curve," people naturally choose to believe rumors in the face of emergencies.
文章说，试图对一切不完全符合事实的信息都进行法律打击，既无法律上的必要，更无制度上的可能，甚至会让我们对谣言的打击走向法律正义价值的反面，成为削弱政府公信力的反面教材。
The article says that it is neither legally necessary nor possible for us to carry out legal attack on all kinds of information that does not fully conform to the facts.
这正是“吹哨人”的存在对于整个社会不可估量的价值与意义。
This is the existence of "whistleblower" for the entire community inestimable value and significance.
假如时光可以倒流，假如李文亮医生在疫情发生之初的预警得到及时回应与采取措施，新冠肺炎是否不至发展成如此沉重局势，人们可以避免多少苦痛？而李文亮医生被公安机关定义为“发布不实信息”并进行训诫，又在多大程度上伤害了公众对当地的信任并且造成了更大的混乱？正是李文亮医生的勇敢发言，撕开了幕布的一角，在早期引起了一部分公众对疫情的重视。
If time could have been reversed, how much suffering could have been avoided if Dr LiWenLiang's early warning had been promptly responded to and acted upon, and how much suffering could have been avoided if the SARS had not developed into such a heavy situation?
我们哀悼李文亮医生。
We mourn for Dr. Lee Wenliang.
他的音容永远停留在那一刻。
His voice and face stayed in that moment forever.
无父何恃？他的孩子们失去了父爱，他尚未出世的孩子将永远见不到父亲的样子，他的妻子、父母与家人失去了家庭的梁木。
His children have lost their father's love, his unborn child will never see his father, and his wife, parents and family have lost the family tree.
他的逝去不是在统计数字上多了一个1，而是一个生命的悲剧，这样的悲剧已经数以百计、还在增加。
His passing is not a statistical addition, but a tragedy of life, which has grown by the hundreds.
我们感谢李文亮医生，因为他基于专业和善良发出的最早哨音。
We thank Dr. Lee Man-liang for his first whistle based on professionalism and kindness.
我们也必须铭记，由于那哨音未能得到及时传播而让社会付出的巨大代价。
We must also bear in mind the enormous cost to society of failing to disseminate that whistle in time.
希望这代价能换来真正的反思与进步，这是李医生用他的职业荣誉与生命践行的真理。
Hopefully, this price will lead to real reflection and progress, which is the truth that Dr. Li practices with his professional honor and life.
武汉市政府在2月7日发布公告对李文亮表达了哀悼与敬意，但训诫书犹在，“吹哨人”何以安息？人们还希望看到对李文亮等人的训诫能得到纠正，让付出了巨大代价的“吹哨人”能得到正名。
The government of Wuhan issued a notice on February 7 expressing condolences and respect for Li Wenliang, but why did the sermon rest in peace? People also hope to see the admonition of Li Wenliang and others be rectified and the "whistleblowers" who paid a heavy price be given a proper name.
文亮文亮，一个人所蕴含与发出的文明光亮，将永远照亮我们。
Wenliang bright, a person's implication and issued by the light of civilization, will always illuminate us.
李文亮医生千古！征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Dr. Lee Wenliang! Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front lines of the New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
哀悼李文亮，应给“吹哨人”正名。
Condolences Li Wenliang, should give the "whistler" the proper name.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "哀悼李文亮，应给“吹哨人”正名";。
var msg _ title = & quot; mourn Li Wenliang, and should have AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
