贾庆国：疫情加速世界秩序重构，去全球化走不通。
Jia Qingguo: The epidemic accelerates the reconstruction of the world order.
马国川。
Ma Guochuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
这次疫情既有加速去全球化的趋势，也有继续推动全球化的趋势。
The epidemic is both accelerating de-globalization and continuing to drive it.
疫情影响到底有多大多深，还没有完全展现出来。
The full extent of the epidemic's impact has yet to be fully demonstrated.
2020年注定是多事之秋，世界要做好准备文|《财经》记者 马国川 编辑|苏琦“中国这次疫情应对还是有效的，我们也有理由感到庆幸和总结经验”，北京大学国际关系学院原院长贾庆国教授说。
The year 2020 is a fateful year for the world to prepare for. & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
贾庆国现任全国政协常委、外事委员会委员。
Jia is a member of the CPPCC Standing Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee.
在接受《财经》记者电话专访时，他分析了这次疫情对国际关系的影响，呼吁各国利用已有的国际合作机制，携手应对疫情。
In a telephone interview with Caijing, he analyzed the impact of the epidemic on international relations and called on all countries to use existing international cooperation mechanisms to jointly address the epidemic.
在贾庆国看来，这次疫情既有加速去全球化的趋势，也有继续推动全球化的趋势。
According to Jia, the epidemic is both accelerating de-globalisation and continuing to push it forward.
中国在处理中美关系时要务实理性，“要考虑怎么使两国关系相对稳定，并在此基础上开展合作。
In dealing with China-US relations, China should be pragmatic and rational, "consider how to make bilateral relations relatively stable, and carry out cooperation on this basis.
”贾庆国指出，这次公共卫生危机将加速世界秩序重构的进程，也进一步说明了构筑人类命运共同体的重要性和必要性。
Jia pointed out that the public-health crisis would accelerate the process of reshaping the world order and further illustrate the importance and necessity of building a community of human destiny.
“疫情影响到底有多大多深，还没有完全展现出来，也可能会引发新的‘黑天鹅事件’，贾庆国说，”2020年注定是多事之秋，世界要做好准备。
"The full extent of the epidemic's impact is yet to be fully revealed and could trigger a new 'Black Swan incident'," said Jia. "2020 is a fateful year for the world to prepare for.
”中国疫情应对是有效的《财经》：目前中国新冠肺炎疫情基本稳定下来，而其他不少国家还在忙于防控。
China's response to the epidemic is valid Caijing: China's new crown pneumonia epidemic is now largely stable, while many other countries are busy with prevention and control.
对于美国、英国、意大利等国的应对办法，中国网民中有不少批评、质疑的声音，应该如何评价别国的应对之策？贾庆国：每个国家都有自己的国情，应对危机都要受到国情的制约。
There are many critical and sceptical voices among Chinese netizens about the measures taken by the United States, the United Kingdom and Italy, and how to respond to them by other countries.Jia Qingguo: Each country has its own national conditions, and responding to the crisis should be limited by its national conditions.
现在看，一些西方国家在应对危机的过程中确实存在着很多问题，但现在不是批评、指责的时候，需要的是鼓励和支持它们改进工作，采取行之有效的行动。
It is true that some Western countries have many problems in coping with the crisis, but now is not the time for criticism or criticism. What is needed is to encourage and support them to improve their work and take effective action.
对于一个国家而言，不管是中国做法、新加坡做法还是韩国做法，都可以作为参考，不能因为那个国家有不同意识形态和政治制度就排斥，而应该对本国的老百姓负责，只要科学有效，就应采取现实的“拿来主义”。
For a country, whether it is China, Singapore, or South Korea, it should not be excluded because that country has a different ideology and political system, but should be accountable to its own citizens. As long as science works, it should adopt a realistic "nativism."
在遏制疫情蔓延和限制公民自由之间进行取舍确实很难，但是在危机时刻，必须两害相权取其轻。
It is difficult to choose between containing the spread of the epidemic and restricting civil liberties, but in a time of crisis, the stakes must be low.
《财经》：也有人担忧，这次疫情将助长民族主义和国家主义心态。
Caijing: There are also concerns that the outbreak will fuel nationalism and nationalism.
贾庆国：总体来说，中国这次疫情应对还是有效的，我们也有理由感到庆幸。
Jia Qingguo: Overall, China's response to the epidemic is still effective, and we have reason to be grateful.
尽管如此，民族主义和国家主义思想和舆论都是不可取的，中国做好是应该的，伟大的中华民族做好是应该的，不应该因此骄傲自满，更要摒弃瞧不起别国的心态。
Nevertheless, nationalism and nationalistic thought and public opinion are undesirable. China should do it well. The great Chinese nation should do well. This should not lead to complacency or even rejection of the mentality of others.
中国现在既有需要自身改进的地方，也有需要向别国学习的地方，还是应该戒骄戒躁。
China now needs to improve itself, learn from other countries, or should refrain from arrogance.
一有成绩就自我膨胀是非常有害的。
It is very harmful to inflate oneself when one has achieved something.
现在还不是庆祝的时候，而是应该总结、反思和改进。
This is not a time for celebration, but for stocktaking, reflection and improvement.
总结好的防控经验，反思疫情应对中存在的问题，在反思的基础上改进现有的防疫机制，确保将来能够做得更好，从而能够给世界应对疫情提供一个更好的模板。
Summarize the good experience of prevention and control, reflect on the existing problems in the response to the epidemic, improve the existing epidemic prevention mechanism on the basis of reflection, and ensure that it can do better in the future, thus providing a better template for the world's response to the epidemic.
目前中国处于1840年以来前所未有的发展阶段，作为世界第二大经济体，中国有能力做许多以前不能做的事情，因此国人感到高兴和自豪是很自然的，但是不应该刻意去渲染，这样做效果可能适得其反。
China is now at a stage of development unprecedented since 1840. As the world's second largest economy, China is capable of doing many things that it could not do before.
其实，中国在应对这次突发公共卫生危机的过程中，也暴露了一些问题和不足。
In fact, China's response to the public health crisis, but also exposed a number of problems and deficiencies.
尤其是刚开始的时候，包括疫情报不上去、应对措施迟缓等。
Especially at the beginning, including the outbreak does not report, slow response measures, and so on.
我们需要完善法律和制度，确保疫情能够在第一时间上报，及时科学决策，有效应对，这样才能更好地应对未来可能发生的公共卫生危机，最大限度减少损害。
We need to improve laws and systems to ensure that the epidemic can be reported at the first time, that timely scientific decision-making and effective response can be made, so that future public health crises can be better addressed and damage minimized.
《财经》：如果不重视问题，就对不起我们为这次危机所付出的代价。
Caijing: If we do not pay attention to the problem, we are sorry for the cost of this crisis.
贾庆国：我以前写过一篇文章《讲清楚、说明白与中国的政治进步》，提出要对体制加以全面和系统地说明和解释，对讲不清说不不明白的地方进行改革和完善，使之更加合理化。
Jia Qingguo: I have written an article, "Speak clearly and clearly with the political progress of China," proposing to explain and explain the system in a comprehensive and systematic way and to reform and improve and rationalize the inexplicable.
其实，好多事情及时讲清楚、说明白比封堵更有效，更能够化解舆情洪峰。
In fact, a lot of things in time clear, clear than blocking more effective, more able to defuse the flood of public opinion.
许多人批评还是希望把工作做得更好一些，不能把舆情变成敌情。
Many people criticize the wish to do a better job than to turn public opinion into an enemy.
一个政策如果都能够讲清楚、说明白，公众就会接受；如果讲不清楚、说不明白，就需要调整，下一次就可以做的更好。
If a policy is clear and unambiguous, it will be accepted by the public; if it is not clear and does not understand, it will need to be adjusted and better done next time.
捂着不让人说，该调整的时候可能意识不到，贻误时机，最后对自己也没有好处。
Cover people do not say that the time to adjust may not be aware of, delays in the opportunity, and ultimately not good for themselves.
分享中国的经验和教训《财经》：国际社会出现了对于世界卫生组织（WHO）的批评声音，您怎么评价世界卫生组织在这次公共卫生危机中的作用？贾庆国：总体来说，世卫组织在这次公共卫生危机中发挥了它应该和可以发挥的作用：第一，组织专家评估疫情，派人到重疫区武汉实地了解情况；第二，向世界提出警示，介绍中国的做法。
Jia Qingguo: Overall, WHO has played its due and potential role in this public health crisis: First, by organizing experts to assess the epidemic and send people to Wuhan, a highly affected region, to learn the situation on the ground; and secondly, by alerting the world to China's practices.
国际社会对世卫组织的批评，有些是意识形态方面的问题，因为国际上有一些人很难接受中国能够有效应对疫情这样一个事实。
Some of the criticisms levelled against WHO by the international community are ideological, as it is difficult for some in the international community to accept the fact that China can respond effectively to the epidemic.
更多的批评源于对世卫组织的不了解，世卫组织不是万能的，它和任何其他的国际组织一样，有很大的局限性，最突出的就是它们授权有限。
Much of the criticism stems from a lack of understanding of WHO, which is not a panacea and which, like any other international organization, has significant limitations, most notably their limited mandate.
世卫组织是主权国家的组织，主权国家说了算，世界卫生组织只能提供信息和建议，其主权国家是否听它也管不了。
The World Health Organization is an organization of sovereign States, and sovereign States have the final say. The World Health Organization can only provide information and advice.
仅就它所拥有的那么点儿权力而言，世界卫生组织这次的表现已经很不错了。
The World Health Organization has done well so far as the little power it possesses is concerned.
《财经》：但是，疫情蔓延到全世界，难道它不应该负一定责任吗？贾庆国：判断世卫组织是不是履行了责任，要看它做了什么、依据什么样的标准来做。
Caijing: But should it not be held responsible for the spread of the epidemic around the world? Jia Qingguo: If WHO fulfills its responsibilities, it will depend on what it does and on what standards.
有一些技术上的问题可以争议，但总的来讲，这次世卫组织还是发挥了它应该发挥的作用。
There are technical issues that can be debated, but in general, this time WHO is playing its part.
它授权非常有限，各方压力又很多。
Its mandate is very limited and there is a lot of pressure from all sides.
例如，在如何判断疫情发展阶段问题上是有争议的，每个国家都有自己的考虑，可以给世卫组织施加压力，以免影响到自己的利益。
For example, how to judge the stage of the epidemic is controversial, and each country has its own considerations that can put pressure on WHO to avoid compromising its own interests.
应该说，这个世界很幸运有了这样一个组织，如果没有世卫组织，这次世界应对疫情只会更差。
It should be said that the world is fortunate to have such an organization, without which the world's response to the epidemic would have been worse.
未来是不是可以做得更多更好？这要取决于主权国家是否愿意赋予它更多的权力和听它的指挥。
Whether the future can be better or more depends on the willingness of sovereign states to give it more power and command.
现实是，很多主权国家目前还不愿给它更多的权力，不少国家也不愿听它指挥。
The reality is that many sovereign states are unwilling to give it more power, and many are reluctant to follow its lead.
这次疫情，美国和西方国家要是早点听世卫组织的也不至于现在这样被动。
America and the West would not have been so passive if they had listened to the WHO earlier.
在可以预见的将来主权国家也不会这样做，这是世卫组织的尴尬之处。
It is an embarrassment for WHO that sovereign states will not do the same in the foreseeable future.
这也适用于解读所有的国际组织，包括联合国，的作为。
This also applies to the interpretation of all international organizations, including the United Nations.
不给予这些国际组织相应的权力和支持，同时又要它们做没有权力就不可能做到的事情，这就是现实。
It is a reality that these international organizations are not given the corresponding powers and support while being asked to do what they would not be able to do without power.
《财经》：现在100多个国家和地区出现病例，超过11万人感染。
Caijing: There are now more than 100 cases in more than 100 countries and regions, and more than 110,000 people are infected.
为了避免更大的灾难，各国如何携手应对，是否缺乏合作机制？贾庆国：机制是有的，无论是G7、G20，还是联合国，都是现成的国际合作机制，现在的问题是没有发挥好它们的作用。
Jia: There are mechanisms, whether the G-7, the G-20, or the United Nations, are ready mechanisms for international cooperation, and the problem is that they are not playing their role properly.
其中一个重要的原因就是是作为世界第一强国的政府，也就是特朗普政府，不重视国际合作，也不重视国际组织、国际机制，它不关心其他国家，只关心美国自己，也就是特朗普所说的“美国第一”。
One important reason is that the Trump administration, the world's largest power, does not attach much importance to international cooperation, to international organizations, and to international mechanisms. It does not care about other countries, only about the US itself, which Trump calls "America first."
既然最强大的国家对国际合作采取这种态度，国际机合作机制自然就很难运转起来。
Since the most powerful States have adopted such an attitude towards international cooperation, it is naturally difficult for international cooperation mechanisms to function.
《财经》：二战以来的七十多年里，国际机制有没有发挥较好的作用？贾庆国：有不少次，比如，当年伊拉克入侵科威特，联合国安理会通过决议，组织联合国部队将伊拉克赶出去；2008年金融危机爆发后，G20国家共同努力，大大缓解了金融危机给实体经济造成的影响。
Jia Qingguo: On many occasions, for example, the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the adoption of a UN Security Council resolution on the expulsion of Iraq by the UN Security Council, and the joint efforts of the G-20 countries in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis have greatly mitigated the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy.
但是在这次公共卫生危机面前，特朗普采取的措施基本上都是单边的，不和其他国家协商与合作。
But, in the face of this public-health crisis, Trump's measures have been largely unilateral, without consultation and cooperation with other countries.
这次美国禁止欧盟国家的航班飞美，也没有和这些国家事先沟通。
The United States banned flights from EU countries and did not communicate with them in advance.
对盟友如此，对其他国家就不用说了。
This is true for allies, not for others.
《财经》：为了避免更大的世界灾难，中国应该做些什么呢？贾庆国：首先是向世界分享自己的经验和教训。
Caijing: What should China do to avoid a greater world disaster? Jia Qingguo: First of all, share its experience and lessons with the world.
中国在应对这次公共卫生危机的过程中有很多的经验，在疫情初期和应对过程中也出现了不少问题，我们有责任、有义务向其他国家介绍自己的经验和教训，帮助他们更好地应对。
China has a lot of experience in dealing with this public health crisis, and a lot of problems have arisen in the early stages of the epidemic and in the course of dealing with it.
第二，力所能及的提供一些帮助，包括给那些公共卫生资源短缺的不发达国家给予援助。
Second, provide some help within its means, including assistance to underdeveloped countries with scarce public health resources.
这次疫情对这些国家构成潜在的、灾难性的威胁，我们应该在它们愿意的情况下，帮助它们做好防控措施，未雨绸缪。
The epidemic poses a potential and catastrophic threat to those countries, and we should help them, if they wish, to prepare for and prevent it.
第三，面对疫情给世界经济造成的破坏性影响，中国也应该呼吁世界主要大国加强沟通和合作，主动采取措施稳定世界经济，包括呼吁召开G20网络峰会，讨论如何应对急剧恶化的经济局势。
Third, in the face of the devastating impact of the epidemic on the world economy, China should also call on the world's major powers to strengthen communication and cooperation and take initiatives to stabilize the world economy, including calling for a G20 cyber summit to discuss how to deal with the rapidly deteriorating economic situation.
“去全球化”这条路走不通《财经》：这次疫情会不会加速这些年来已经存在的“去全球化”趋势？贾庆国：这次疫情既有加速去全球化的趋势，也继续推动全球化的趋势。
(Finance) (Jia Qingguo) (Jia Qingguo) (Jia Qingguo) This epidemic is accelerating the trend of de-globalisation as well as the trend of globalization.
由于疫情的发展，目前国际贸易来往、人员交流大幅减少，再加上一些人推波助澜，对全球化构成严重冲击。
As a result of the epidemic, international trade flows and the exchange of people are now drastically reduced, which, together with the impetus provided by some, have had a serious impact on globalization.
但这是短期效应，全球化的趋势是不可阻挡的。
But this is a short-term effect, and the trend toward globalization is unstoppable.
因为贸易是互补余缺、增加财富的一种手段，交通和通讯技术的发展使得国际贸易变得更加快捷便宜，这两个因素使得经济全球化成为世界大势，也为人类社会带来巨大好处。
Since trade was a means of complementing each other and increasing wealth, the development of transport and communications technology had made international trade faster and cheaper, both factors making economic globalization a global trend and bringing great benefits to human society.
人们不会拒绝全球化的。
Globalization will not be rejected.
历史表明，搞闭关自守、逆势而动的国家最终都没有好下场。
History has shown that countries that act in isolation and against the trend do not end well in the end.
当然，短期是多长时间，现在很难判断。
Of course, how long the short term is is difficult to judge.
不过可以肯定的是，从大的历史角度来讲，“去全球化”这条路是走不通的。
To be sure, the road to "de-globalisation" is a long way off from a big historical perspective.
这次疫情也从另外一个侧面提醒人们，我们都生活在同一个世界里，互相帮助、加强合作对我们应对疫情和经济下滑有多么重要。
The epidemic also serves as another reminder of how important it is for us to help each other and strengthen our cooperation in dealing with the epidemic and the economic downturn, as we all live in the same world.
《财经》：也有人说疫情是一个“中美脱钩”实验。
Caijing: Some people say the epidemic is a "decoupling" experiment.
大部分经济学家认为脱钩是不可能的，但是也有人认为脱钩未必不可能。
Most economists think decoupling is impossible, but some argue that decoupling is not impossible.
您怎么看？贾庆国：一般情况下，脱钩是不可能的，但也不能完全排除脱钩的可能性。
What do you think? Jia Qingguo: In general, decoupling is impossible, but the possibility of decoupling cannot be ruled out completely.
这是因为人在通常情况下是理性的，但是由于各种各样的原因，也可能就会做出一些非理性的事情来。
This is because people are usually rational, but for a variety of reasons, it is possible to do something irrational.
加拿大抓捕孟晚舟的时候，我突然感觉到脱钩也是一种现实的可能性。
When Canada captured Meng's boat, I suddenly felt that decoupling was also a realistic possibility.
假如当时中国在中国境内或者委托其他国家抓捕美国的CEO作为反制，那么中美经济很快就会脱钩。
If China had acted as a countermeasure, either in China or by commissioning other countries to arrest US CEOs, the US-China economy would soon have decoupled.
当然，这种可能性只存在于非常极端的情况下。
Of course, this possibility exists only in very extreme cases.
战后几十年，美国领导人还是比较务实和理性的，这种可能性被压缩到最小程度。
For decades after the war, America's leaders were pragmatic and rational, and that possibility was minimized.
但是现在这种可能性增大，主要是因为这届美国政府做事太冲动，也太不靠谱了。
But the chances are now higher, largely because this administration has been too impulsive and unreliable.
《财经》：在当前情况下，应该怎么样避免“中美脱钩”？贾庆国：中国在处理中美关系时，还是要理性务实。
Jia Qingguo: China still needs to be rational and pragmatic in dealing with China-US relations.
目前华盛顿政界在其它问题上吵得一塌糊涂，但是在对华政策问题上却高度一致，都主张对中国强硬，我认为它处于一种情绪化状态。
I think Washington is in an emotional state, with a lot of political wrangling over other issues, but a high degree of consensus on China policy and a strong view of China.
面对这种情况，中国需要保持冷静态度和战略定力，不要因为对方说了什么、做了什么，也跟着去说、跟着去做。
Faced with this situation, China needs to remain calm and strategic. Don't follow what the other side has said or done, and follow suit.
就像美国的一些政客鼓吹病毒来自中国，我们没有必要反击说病毒来自美国。
Just as some American politicians preach that the virus comes from China, there is no need to counter that it came from the US.
总之，不能让美国极端反华分子牵着我们走。
In short, extreme anti-Chinese elements in the US should not lead us.
所谓理性面对、务实处理两国关系，就是不管是经贸关系还是人员交流，都没必要刻意的去扩大或者减少，顺其自然。
The so-called rational and pragmatic handling of bilateral relations means that no matter economic and trade relations or personnel exchanges, there is no need to deliberately expand or reduce them and let them take their course.
因此，我们要想办法让两国关系稳定下来。
Therefore, we need to find a way to stabilize the bilateral relations.
等华盛顿人心平静下来，变得比较理性了，机会成熟了，再想办法和美国一起来把两国关系推向前进。
By the time Washington calms down and becomes more rational, the opportunity is ripe to work with the United States to move the bilateral relationship forward.
外交上，官方最好不要直接回应美国民间出现的极端观点。
Diplomatically, it is best for officials not to respond directly to the extreme views that have emerged among American citizens.
官方最好对美国官方的立场和说法进行回应。
It would be better for officials to respond to official US positions and statements.
面对挑战，外交官应该保持沉着、理性和风度。
Diplomats should remain calm, rational and courteous in the face of challenges.
世界秩序正在加速重构《财经》：从2008年世界金融危机以来，世界秩序一直在重构，这次疫情会不会加速重构的速度呢？贾庆国：肯定会加速重构的进程，冷战结束以来，世界格局一直在“东升西降”，中国和一些发展中国家发展势头好，西方国家的实力和在世界上的影响力逐渐下降。
The world order is accelerating the restructuring of Caijing: Since the 2008 world financial crisis, has the world order been reconfigured continuously? Jia Qingguo: It will certainly accelerate the process of reconstruction, the world pattern has been "rising and falling westwards" since the Cold War's end.
由于种种原因，到现在为止，美国没有解决两极分化问题，欧洲国家面临的问题更多。
For a variety of reasons, the US has so far failed to address polarization, with European countries facing more problems.
此外，这次疫情对北大西洋联盟和欧盟都有一定程度的冲击，可能对北大西洋联盟的冲击更大一些，因为前期已经有弱化的趋势了。
Moreover, the outbreak has had some impact on both the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, and could have had a greater impact on the North Atlantic Alliance, which had weakened in the early stages.
包括中国在内的其他东方国家，尤其是亚洲国家，只要把自己的事情做好，“东升西降”的势头不会改变，这次疫情再一次加速了这种趋势。
Other eastern countries, including China, especially in Asia, will not change their momentum as long as they do their own thing well. This epidemic has once again accelerated this trend.
《财经》：为什么中国、日本、韩国、新加坡等东亚国家的疫情应对效果要好很多呢？贾庆国：这可能和文化价值观有着直接关系。
Caijing: Why are the East Asian countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and Singapore responding to the epidemic much better? Jia Qingguo: It may have something to do with cultural values.
这些国家的国民比较强调自律，做事比较理性和务实，不像欧美人那样随性和浪漫。
Nationals of these countries place more emphasis on self-discipline and do things more rationally and pragmatically than Europeans and Americans do.
和欧美相比，东亚社会一般更重视群体利益。
Compared with Europe and America, East Asian societies generally attach more importance to group interests.
李光耀曾提出“亚洲价值观”，“东亚人（日本人、韩国人、台湾人、香港人和新加坡人）的带有更强群体意识的价值观和实践”。
Lee proposed "Asian values" and "the values and practices of the East Asians (Japanese, Koreans, Taiwanese, Hong Kong, and Singaporeans) with a stronger sense of community."
他认为，东亚文化更强调群体利益，而欧美国家更强调个人利益，国民不愿意服从政府。
He argued that East Asian culture placed more emphasis on group interests, while European and American countries placed greater emphasis on individual interests and citizens were reluctant to submit to the government.
在东亚人看来，群体的利益界定了个人的利益，群体的利益保护好了，才能保护个人的利益。
In the view of the East Asians, the interests of the group define the interests of the individual and those of the group are protected to protect the interests of the individual.
这也许是东亚这些国家处理疫情比较有效的主要原因。
This may be the main reason why these countries in East Asia have been more effective in dealing with the epidemic.
不管是东方也好还是西方也好，都重视群体和个人这两种权益，只不过偏好不太一样，平衡点不同。
Both the East and the West value the rights of groups and individuals, but the preferences are different and the points of balance are different.
《财经》：现在各国对疫情的防控缺乏协调，随着危机不断深化，有没有可能引起新的冲突？贾庆国：现在的一些矛盾还不至于引起国家间大的冲突。
Jia Qingguo: As the crisis deepens, will it be possible to start a new conflictJia Qingguo: Some of the current contradictions do not give rise to great inter-state conflicts.
不过，各种各样的猜忌都出现了，很难说未来会不会引发这种冲突，我们需要警惕和防范这种冲突。
However, all kinds of mistrust have emerged, and it is difficult to say whether such conflicts will arise in the future, and we need to be vigilant and guard against them.
这次危机进一步说明了建构人类命运共同体的重要性和必要性。
The crisis has further demonstrated the importance and necessity of building a community of human destiny.
当然，建构人类命运共同体需要明确其具体的内涵。
Of course, the construction of a community of human destiny needs to be clear about its specific connotation.
疫情影响到底有多大多深，还没有完全展现出来，由此还可能引发新的“黑天鹅事件”。
The full extent of the epidemic's impact has yet to be fully revealed, and could trigger a new "Black Swan incident."
2020年注定是多事之秋，世界要做好准备。
The year 2020 is bound to be eventful and the world must be ready.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
贾庆国：疫情加速世界秩序重构，去全球化走不通。
Jia Qingguo: The epidemic accelerates the reconstruction of the world order.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "贾庆国：疫情加速世界秩序重构，去全球化走不通";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Jia: The epidemic accelerated the restructuring of the world order and deglobalisation.
var msg_desc = "这次疫情既有加速去全球化的趋势，也有继续推动全球化的趋势。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the epidemic is both accelerating de-globalisation and continuing to drive it.
疫情影响到底有多大多深，还没有完全展现出来。
The full extent of the epidemic's impact has yet to be fully demonstrated.
2020年注定是多事之秋，世界要做好准备";。
The year 2020 is destined to be eventful, and the world needs to be prepared.;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
