新冠疫情四重冲击，全球化要倒退？。
New Crown Epidemic Four-fold Impact, Globalization to Reverse?
何帆 等。
He Fan, etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
全球疫情的进一步扩散，将对全球经济带来较大的冲击，而由于国际局势已经与全球金融危机爆发时大为不同，全球合作的前景不容乐观，新冠疫情有可能随之会给全球经济带来第四次冲击波文|何帆 朱鹤 许佩玉 黄婉菁新冠病毒已经在全球范围内蔓延，世界卫生组织将其定性为“全球流行病（pandemic）”。
The further spread of the global epidemic will have a greater impact on the global economy, and as the international situation is very different from that prevailing at the time of the global financial crisis, the prospects for global cooperation are not promising.
虽然数个疫情比较严重的国家开始采取比较强力的防控措施，包括限制人员流动、关闭商业机构、员工在家办公等，但多数国家仍然处于防控的初期阶段，各项措施尚未到位。
While several of the more affected countries have introduced stronger control measures, including restrictions on the movement of people, the closure of commercial establishments and home-based work, most countries are still in the early stages of prevention and control and measures are not yet in place.
这势必会影响全球疫情的进一步扩散，也将对全球经济带来较大的冲击。
This will inevitably affect the further spread of the global epidemic, but will also have a greater impact on the global economy.
从目前来看，新冠疫情对全球经济带来的冲击主要有三个方面：供给扰动、需求冲击和资产负债表损失。
So far, the impact of the new crown on the global economy has been threefold: supply-side disruptions, demand shocks, and balance-sheet losses.
这场疫情是否会带来一场全球范围内的经济危机，仍有待观察。
It remains to be seen whether the epidemic will lead to an economic crisis on a global scale.
但值得担忧的是，由于国际局势已经与全球金融危机爆发时大为不同，全球合作的前景不容乐观，新冠疫情有可能随之会给全球经济带来第四次冲击波：全球化退潮。
But it is worrying that, because the international situation has become so different from when the global financial crisis erupted, the prospects for global cooperation are not promising, with the possibility that the new crown epidemic could bring a fourth shock wave to the global economy: the ebb of globalization.
面对新冠疫情带来的冲击，中国应提高警惕、预作准备，备足政策空间，或能减少本次疫情给中国经济带来的负面影响。
In the face of the impact of the new crown epidemic, China should be more vigilant, prepared to prepare sufficient policy space, and may be able to reduce the negative impact of the epidemic on the Chinese economy.
第一重冲击：来自全球供应链的供给冲击中国是首先爆发新冠疫情的国家，受此影响，各个行业的生产一度停滞。
First shock: Supply shocks from global supply chains have brought production to a standstill in China, the first country to experience a new crown.
考虑到中国已经是全球第二大经济体，特别是中国经济与全球供应链的融合程度较高，这将给全球经济带来较大的供给冲击。
Given that China is already the world's second-largest economy, especially given its greater integration into global supply chains, this will have a significant supply impact on the global economy.
如何测算新冠疫情对全球供应链带来的供给冲击呢？一种直接的研究方法是利用国际投入产出表数据库来测算中国对全球经济的影响。
One direct way to measure the supply impact of the new crown epidemic on global supply chains is to use the international input-output table database to measure China's impact on the global economy.
从表面上看，这种方法最为直接、也最为系统，理应得出较为明确可信的结论，但在现实中，运用投出产出表方法可能会遇到各种困难。
On the face of it, this method is the most direct and systematic, and should lead to clear and credible conclusions, but in reality, the use of the method of producing tables may encounter difficulties.
一是投入产出表中的数据并非实际的统计数据，在计算的过程中需要根据底层的投入产出模型进行大量的估算和推算，在这一过程中会存在大量的估算偏差。
First, the data in the input-output tables are not actual statistics. In the process of calculation, a large number of estimation and extrapolation are needed based on the input-output model at the bottom.
跨国投入产出表更是会面临这个问题，各国的统计标准差异会进一步放大投入产出表的误差。
The cross-border input-output tables will face this problem even more, and the differences in national statistical standards will further amplify the input-output table errors.
二是投入产出表是通过一组联立方程组找到的一种线性机制，而实际的经济机制大多是非线性的，且有大量的正反馈和负反馈效应。
Second, the input-output table is a linear mechanism found through a set of simultaneous equations, while the actual economic mechanism is mostly nonlinear and has a large number of positive and negative feedback effects.
三是测算冲击水平的关键在于确定原始冲击的量级，但目前对原始冲击的评估信息是严重不足的。
Third, the key to estimate the impact level is to determine the magnitude of the original impact, but the original impact assessment information is seriously inadequate.
换言之，如果我们没办法相对准确的测度中国受到的冲击量级，我们也没办法估算对全球经济的冲击，而只能利用不同的情景假设。
In other words, if we cannot measure the magnitude of China's impact with relative accuracy, we cannot estimate the impact on the global economy, but can only use different scenarios.
事实上，这正是为什么我们现在看到的各种测算疫情对全球经济影响的模型，大都只能停留在情景分析的层面。
In fact, that is why most of the models we see now to measure the impact of the epidemic on the global economy are only situational analysis.
我们试图从另一个角度，更为直接地测度新冠疫情对全球供应链带来的供给冲击。
From another perspective, we try to measure more directly the supply impact of the new crown epidemic on global supply chains.
我们的研究思路是：通过原始而真实的国际贸易数据，找出那些更容易受到中国冲击的国家。
The idea is to find out which countries are more vulnerable to Chinese shocks through raw and true data on international trade.
这些国家进口了更多的中国产品，尤其是中间产品。
These countries have imported more Chinese products, especially intermediate products.
进口中间品的目的是进入国内的生产环节，显然对该国生产的影响更为直接。
The purpose of importing intermediate goods is to enter the domestic production chain, and the impact on national production is clearly more direct.
找到了这些更容易受到冲击的国家之后，我们就可以根据这些国家的分布和规模，判断新冠疫情对全球供应链带来的供给冲击。
By identifying these more vulnerable countries, we can judge the supply impact of the new crown epidemic on global supply chains, based on the distribution and size of these countries.
我们计算了世界各国中间品进口额占总进口额的比重、从中国进口的中间品占其全部中间品进口的比重以及各国贸易总额占GDP的比重。
We calculated the share of world imports of intermediates in total imports, the share of imports of intermediates from China in its total imports of intermediates, and the share of countries' total trade in GDP.
如果一国的前两个指标比较高，则说明该国对中国的中间品进口有较高的依赖度。
If a country's first two indicators are high, it shows a high dependence on Chinese imports of intermediate goods.
在此基础上，若该国同时拥有较高的对外贸易依存度，则说明该国的整体经济对中国进口的依赖程度更高，进而表明该国在此次新冠疫情中会受到较大冲击。
On this basis, if the country at the same time has a high degree of dependence on foreign trade, the country as a whole is more dependent on imports from China, thus indicating that the country will be more affected by the new crown outbreak.
如图所示，对国际贸易依赖程度更高、与国际供应链联系更强、且从中国进口中间品较多的国家大多都是发展中国家，几乎没有发达经济体。
As shown in the figure, most of the countries that are more dependent on international trade, have stronger links to international supply chains and import more intermediates from China are developing countries, with few developed economies.
当然，在部分产业中有些发达国家和中国在生产和消费环节的联系非常紧密，如电子产业中以中日韩为核心形成了东亚生产体系，汽车产业中德国对中国的终端需求依赖度较高。
Of course, in some industries, some developed countries and China are closely connected in the production and consumption links. For example, China, Japan and South Korea form the East Asian production system in the electronics industry.
这种供给冲击会持续多久呢？虽然当前中国企业尚未完全复工复产，但从目前的进度来看，中国企业恢复到正常生产状态只是时间问题。
How long will this supply shock last? It is only a matter of time before Chinese companies return to normal production, even though they have not yet fully resumed production.
供给冲击虽然来得最早，但也会最早消退。
Supply shocks, though the earliest, will subside as soon as possible.
同时，值得指出的是，当前的全球供应链依然是围绕发达经济体展开的分工体系，而中国在全球供应链中的独特地位是其它新兴经济体无法替代的，因此，只要全球供应链没有出现系统性的危机，就没理由认为这种供给冲击会带来持续的影响。
At the same time, it is worth noting that the current global supply chain remains structured around a division of labour among developed economies, and that China's unique position in global supply chains is irreplaceable for other emerging economies, so long as there is no systemic crisis in global supply chains, there is no reason to believe that such supply shocks will have a lasting impact.
然而，随着中国企业逐渐恢复到正常的生产状态，新的问题又会浮出水面。
However, as Chinese companies gradually return to normal production, new problems will surface.
之前大家以为要加班生产的出口订单，都还在吗？第二重冲击：防控疫情导致的总需求萎缩当前全球市场担心的问题早已不再是中国能否复工，而是新冠疫情对总需求的冲击。
The second shock: Controlling the contraction in aggregate demand caused by the epidemic. The current global market concern is no longer whether China can resume work, but the impact of the new crown epidemic on aggregate demand.
随着新冠疫情在全球范围内的扩散，各国政府被迫采取各种防疫措施，也引发了金融市场的担忧。
As the new crown epidemic spreads around the world, governments are being forced to take various precautions, raising concerns in financial markets.
全球多个股票市场连续暴跌。
Stock markets around the world have plummeted.
就连习惯于高估全球经济增速的IMF也表示，2020年全球经济会比2019年更差。
Even the IMF, accustomed to overestimating global growth, says the global economy will be worse in 2020 than it was in 2019.
目前来看，对总需求冲击的判断比较困难，市场预期也比较混乱，主要原因在于全球各国的防疫抗疫理念有很大的差异，而且所采取的措施仍在不断变化。
At present, it is difficult to judge the impact of aggregate demand, and the market expectations are more chaotic, mainly because of the great differences in the concept of epidemic prevention and the continuous changes in the measures taken.
不同的防疫抗疫对策，带来对需求的冲击也会不同。
Different anti-epidemic measures, the impact on demand will also be different.
如果根据严格的程度，对各国防疫抗疫的对策做一个光谱，则中国在光谱的一个极端，美国的初期反应在另一个极端。
If a spectrum of national responses to the epidemic is made according to the degree of rigour, then China is at one extreme of the spectrum and the United States at the other extreme.
由于有2003年SARS疫情的前车之鉴，所以中国从一开始就采取了包括封城、停产停课在内的严厉措施，这种抗疫模式能够较好地控制疫情，但由于抑制消费、限制人员流动，对需求带来的扰动也更大。
Given the precedent of the SARS epidemic in 2003, China has taken tough measures from the outset, including closures and school closures, which have allowed for a better control of the epidemic, but have also caused greater demand disruptions by curbing consumption and restricting the movement of people.
韩国采取的对策和中国较为相近，效果也大体类似。
South Korea's approach is similar to that of China, and the effect is broadly similar.
反之，如果采取更为放任的对策，看似对经济的扰动更小，但疫情的扩散会更迅猛，后期需要用更多的补救措施，目前的意大利和伊朗就是这种情况。
On the other hand, a more laissez-faire response would appear to be less disruptive to the economy, but the spread of the epidemic would be faster and more remedial measures would be needed later, as is currently the case in Italy and Iran.
许多国家最初的态度更接近美国而非中国，但从现有趋势看，越来越多的政府开始改变立场并朝着中国的方向移动，甚至美国政府也采取了更为严厉的应对措施。
Many countries initially came closer to the US than to China, but the current trend suggests that more and more governments are moving in the direction of China, even as the US government responds more harshly.
这意味着接下来防疫抗疫措施对总需求的抑制效应会越来越强。
This means that the next anti-epidemic measures against aggregate demand will be more and more effective.
发达国家大多以第三产业为主，消费占GDP的比重更高，因此限制人员流动和关闭公共区域会对本国经济造成更大的冲击。
Given that most developed countries are dominated by the tertiary sector, with consumption accounting for a higher share of GDP, restrictions on the movement of people and the closure of public areas would have a greater impact on their economies.
对新兴经济体而言，发达国家需求下降意味着外需下降，国内经济压力自然增加。
For emerging economies, falling demand in developed countries means lower external demand and naturally increased domestic economic pressures.
随着疫情的发展，对需求影响更大的一个因素是各国对传染病的防控能力。
As the epidemic progresses, one factor that has a greater impact on demand is the ability of countries to control infectious diseases.
发达国家已建立起相对完善的公共卫生医疗服务体系，拥有强大的基层医疗服务能力，其医疗体系的韧性和效率明显高于发展中国家。
Developed countries have established a relatively well-developed public health service system, with strong primary health-care capacity, and their health-care systems are markedly more resilient and efficient than those of developing countries.
一旦这些国家开始意识到疫情的严重性，并全力启动传染病的防控体系，控制新冠疫情并不是一件困难的事情。
Once these countries begin to recognize the severity of the epidemic, and are fully committed to the prevention and control of infectious diseases, it will not be difficult to control the new crown.
而且，这些地区尚未出现集中爆发的情况，要比中国在疫情初期面临的治疗压力更小一些。
Moreover, there has not been a concentrated outbreak in these areas, which is less of a treatment pressure than China faced at the beginning of the epidemic.
真正可能出现重大问题的是医疗卫生条件相对落后的发展中国家。
The real potential for major problems is in developing countries, where health conditions are relatively backward.
我们利用世界卫生组织公布的全民健康覆盖指数（Universal health coverage index，简称UHC指数）来衡量各国的基础医疗能力。
We use the Universal Health Coverage Index, published by the World Health Organization, to measure countries "primary health-care capacity.
该指数的构建涉及多个方面，且受限于部分国家相关数据的可得性和真实性，并不能直接比较各国医疗水平。
The construction of the index is multifaceted and subject to the availability and authenticity of data in some countries and does not allow direct comparisons of health levels across countries.
不过，相对于发达经济体，该指数更适合于衡量发展中国家，特别是欠发达国家的基础医疗状况。
However, the index is better suited to measuring basic health conditions in developing countries, especially in less developed countries, than in developed economies.
我们结合UHC指数和各国的贸易状况，综合评估各国面对的疫情风险敞口。
Combined with the UHC index and the trade performance of countries, we are synthesizing the exposure of countries to the epidemic.
根据世界卫生组织提供的数据，中国的UHC指数大概是79。
According to the World Health Organization, China's UHC index is about 79.
如果以此做为界定防控能力的分界点，那么除中国以外，所有UHC值不超过79的国家的贸易规模总和占全球贸易总额的比重约30%，这些国家在中国出口总额的比重大约是35%。
If this were used as the cut-off point for defining control capacity, the combined trade size of all countries with a UHC value of less than 79 per cent of total global trade, excluding China, is about 35 per cent of their total exports.
也就是说，中国的外需中有三分之一左右的国家或许没有足够的能力来妥善应对疫情。
In other words, about one-third of China's external needs may not be able to respond adequately to the epidemic.
这些国家一旦出现问题，会让中国的外需变得更加疲弱。
Any problems in these countries will further weaken China's external demand.
第三重冲击：资产负债表的短期恶化新冠疫情除了会给供需造成冲击，还会给资产负债表造成影响，这种影响是相对隐性的。
Third shock: Short-term deterioration of the balance sheet. In addition to shocks to supply and demand, the new crown will have an impact on the balance sheet, which is relatively hidden.
新冠疫情可以通过两种机制直接影响到社会各部门的资产负债表。
The new crown epidemic can directly affect the balance sheets of all sectors of society through two mechanisms.
一是防控疫情会带来一定程度的经济停滞，各部门在短期内会因此承担相应的流动性损失，这会直接体现在资产端流动资产的额外消耗。
First, the prevention and control of the epidemic will lead to a certain degree of economic stagnation, departments will bear the corresponding loss of liquidity in the short term, which will be directly reflected in the asset side of the additional consumption of liquid assets.
二是金融市场在恐慌情绪下出现抛售行为，并导致资产价格快速下跌，这会让各部门相应的金融资产价值缩水，减少资产价值。
The second is that financial markets sell off in panic, causing asset prices to fall rapidly, reducing the value of corresponding financial assets across sectors and reducing asset values.
第一种机制下，各部门承担是流动性损失，而非实际损失。
Under the first mechanism, departments assume the loss of liquidity, not the actual loss.
后期可以逐渐用新增的流动性弥补这部分缺口。
Later, this gap could be filled gradually with additional liquidity.
这一点在中国体现的比较明确。
This is quite clear in China.
为了防控疫情，中国经济的生产、流通和消费环节暂时停滞。
In order to prevent and control the epidemic, China's economy production, circulation and consumption links have temporarily stalled.
在这期间，多数经济主体没有创造任何经济价值，或者说没有创造GDP。
During this period, most economic actors did not create any economic value, or GDP.
我们用生产法粗略匡算，由于完全停工和效率损失，2-4月期间大约会损失掉25-30天，共计8万亿元。
Using the production method, we roughly calculate that due to total shutdown and loss of efficiency, about 25-30 days will be lost between February and April, making a total of 8 trillion yuan.
其中，部分上中游工业企业受到影响较小，这些工业企业在第二产业中的占比大约是30%。
Some of the upper-middle industrial enterprises, which account for about 30 per cent of the secondary sector, were less affected.
部分服务业没有受影响，比如金融业和网上消费，这些企业大概可以占到第三产业的50%。
Some services sectors have not been affected, such as finance and online consumption, which account for roughly 50 per cent of the tertiary sector.
再结合第二产业和第三产业在GDP中的占比，最终得出疫情带来的流动性缺口大概有4-5万亿元。
Combined with the share of the secondary and tertiary sectors in GDP, the resulting liquidity gap is estimated to be 4-5 trillion yuan.
这些不是实际利润损失，而是现金流损失。
These are not actual loss of profits, but loss of cash flow.
部分企业实际上是在用自己的现金流去补充其他部门的现金流，或者说是用资产负债表的变动去补偿现金流量表。
Some companies are actually using their cash flow to supplement the cash flow of other departments, or to compensate the cash flow statement with balance sheet changes.
受疫情影响，政府的税收及其他收入会减少，银行也会遭受一定的利息损失，但主要承担这部分流动性缺口的还是企业和居民两个部门。
Affected by the epidemic, the Government's tax and other income will be reduced, banks will also suffer certain interest losses, but the main responsibility for this liquidity gap is the enterprise and residential sectors.
对居民部门来说，不可能通过增加负债来弥补现金流缺口，只能消耗储蓄。
For the residential sector, it is not possible to make up for the cash-flow gap by increasing indebtedness, but rather to deplete savings.
企业部门可以消耗当前的流动资金，或者从金融部门获得短期贷款。
The business sector can either consume current liquidity or obtain short-term loans from the financial sector.
无论何种方法，两部门的杠杆率短期内都会被迫增加。
Either way, leverage in both sectors will have to increase in the short term.
根据2019年的数据推算，居民和企业两个部门每月净现金流增量约5000亿-6000亿元，这就意味居民和企业部门要完成资产负债表的修复至少需要6-8月的时间，也就是持续到2020年三季度。
Based on 2019 data, the net monthly cash flow increase for residents and businesses is estimated at $500 billion to $600 billion, which means that it will take at least six to eight months for residents and the corporate sector to complete balance-sheet repair, that is, until the third quarter of 2020.
在此期间，居民的耐用品消费和企业的固定资产投资都会受到直接的影响。
During this period, the consumer durable goods consumption and the enterprise fixed assets investment will be directly affected.
对于发达经济体来说，近期金融市场剧烈调整导致的资产价值缩水会直接冲击到各部门的资产负债表。
For advanced economies, the recent sharp correction in financial markets has reduced asset values directly affecting the balance sheets of various sectors.
美国的401K计划将居民部门的养老金与金融市场直接联系在一起，金融市场暴跌或许会让居民部门养老金账户缩水，进而影响到当期和未来的消费支出。
America's 401K program links household pensions directly to financial markets, where collapsing financial markets may shrink household-sector pension accounts, affecting current and future consumer spending.
这对美国经济会造成直接冲击。
This would have a direct impact on the US economy.
目前这部分影响的量级不易估算，因为事情尚在发展，但只要金融市场不能在短时间内恢复平静并回归过去的水平，实体部门的资产负债表就会受损，就需要花时间来修复。
The magnitude of this impact is difficult to estimate at this point, as events are still unfolding, but as long as financial markets do not restore calm and return to the levels of the past in the short term, the balance sheet of the real sector will suffer and take time to repair.
无论何种机制造成的资产负债表损失，最终都指向一点，即在失去了居民和企业两个部门的支出动力之后，能够弥补需求缺口，稳住总需求的力量只剩下政府部门。
Whatever the mechanism, balance-sheet losses ultimately point to the fact that, after losing the incentive to spend in both the residential and corporate sectors, the government sector alone has the power to close the demand gap and stabilize aggregate demand.
从经济周期看，新冠疫情打断了2019年底呈现出的全球经济弱复苏进程。
In terms of economic cycles, the new crown has interrupted the weak global economic recovery seen at the end of 2019.
如果此时政府部门不能填补这部分需求缺口，推动经济复苏，那就意味着经济在底部的时间被迫延长了。
If the government fails to fill this gap and propel the economy back into recovery, that means the economy will have to spend more time at the bottom.
这将是实体经济最难熬的阶段。
This will be the most difficult period for the real economy.
第四重冲击：全球化退潮新冠疫情是全球所有国家共同面临的问题。
The fourth impact: The new crown epidemic of globalization is a common problem facing all countries in the world.
2020年3月12日，G20第二次协调人会议发表了《二十国集团协调人关于新冠肺炎的声明》，一致同意将使用所有可行的政策工具，包括适当的财政和货币措施，应对新冠疫情的挑战。
On 12 March 2020, the second meeting of G-20 focal points issued the G20 Focal Point Statement on New Crown Pneumonia, in which they agreed to use all available policy instruments, including appropriate fiscal and monetary measures, to address the challenges of the new crown epidemic.
虽然这传递出了积极的信号，但全球经济合作的处境已经和十年前全球金融危机爆发之时大不一样，新冠疫情可能不仅无法促进各国之间的协作，反而会加剧全球化的退潮。
While this sends a positive signal, the state of global economic cooperation is not the same as it was a decade ago, when the global financial crisis erupted, and the new crown may not only fail to promote collaboration among countries, but rather exacerbate the receding tide of globalization.
加强全球经济合作，需要几个关键因素：领导者、多边合作的平台和国内的政治支持。
Strengthening global economic cooperation requires several key factors: leadership, a platform for multilateral cooperation, and domestic political support.
在20世纪90年代直至全球金融危机爆发，推动全球经济合作的领导者是美国，美国试图通过全球经济合作推广其支持的规则和制度；推动全球经济合作的平台既有传统的布雷顿森林体系机构，也有新兴的G20峰会，还有各种专业性的多边组织；推动全球经济合作的国内政治力量包括在全球化中获益最多的跨国公司，而普通民众也在一定程度上享受了经济快速增长的好处，对全球化总体持正面态度。
Between the 1990 "s and the onset of the global financial crisis, global economic cooperation was driven by the US, which tried to promote the rules and institutions it supported through global economic cooperation; global economic cooperation was driven by traditional Bretton Woods institutions, emerging G-20 summits, and specialized multilateral organizations.
全球金融危机爆发之后，贸易保护主义抬头、地缘政治冲突不断加剧、民粹主义的影响力越来越大，这都冲击了全球合作的基础。
In the wake of the global financial crisis, the rise of trade protectionism, intensifying geopolitical conflicts, and the growing influence of populism have undermined the foundations of global cooperation.
特朗普当选美国总统之后，美国数次挑战国际秩序传统，引发了国际社会的广泛争议。
Since Trump's election as US president, the US has challenged the tradition of international order several times, sparking widespread international controversy.
美国已经没有能力、也没有意愿支持多边合作。
The United States is no longer able or willing to support multilateral cooperation.
传统的布雷顿森林体系迟迟无法推进改革，其合法性大打折扣，而新兴的G20平台则面临着被边缘化的尴尬局面。
The traditional Bretton Woods institutions have been slow to advance reform, their legitimacy has been eroded, and the emerging G-20 platform is facing the embarrassment of marginalization.
西方国家国内经济社会问题丛生，收入不平等程度日益加剧，进一步导致其国内政治力量的极化和对立。
Western countries are beset with domestic economic and social problems and growing income inequality, further polarizing and antagonizing their domestic political forces.
在经济稳定增长时期，人们会更加乐观，也更宽容开放，但在经济相对低迷时候，人们会变得更加悲观，也会更加排外封闭。
In times of steady economic growth, people are more optimistic and open-minded, but in times of relative economic downturn, they become more pessimistic and exclusionary.
激进全球化的民意基础不复存在。
There is no longer a constituency for radical globalization.
包括新冠肺炎在内的新兴传染病，也是全球化的一个副产品。
Emerging infectious diseases, including new crown pneumonia, are also a by-product of globalization.
在全球化的背景之下，人口和货物的流动性不断提高，这也使得疾病的传染速度更快、范围更广。
In the context of globalization, the increasing mobility of people and goods has also made the spread of disease faster and more widespread.
在缺乏更好对策的情况下，隔离是防范疫情的无奈选择。
In the absence of a better response, isolation is the last resort.
可以预见的是，即使疫情消失，各国也会在对人口和货物的跨境流通方面施加更为严格的管制。
It is foreseeable that even if the epidemic disappears, countries will impose stricter controls on the cross-border movement of people and goods.
在面对疫情的挑战时，各国由于采取的对策不同，也有可能出现互相指责、互相防范的情况。
Confronted with the challenges of the epidemic, countries may also be accused and guarded against each other because of their different responses.
疾病的传播，也很容易伴随着对特定人群的“污名化”，导致更多的歧视和排斥。
The spread of disease is also easily accompanied by the "stigmatization" of specific groups of people, leading to more discrimination and exclusion.
在这种情况下，新冠疫情可能会成为继全球金融危机、贸易保护主义、地缘政治冲突之后的对全球化的又一次冲击，全球化退潮的速度会进一步加快，从历史的长视角来看，这是一次全球化黄金时代的“结束的开始”（thebeginningoftheend）。
In this context, the new crown could become another shock to globalization following the global financial crisis, trade protectionism, and geopolitical conflicts, and the ebb of globalization, which, from a long-term historical perspective, is the "end of the golden age" of globalization.
（作者何帆为上海交通大学安泰经济与管理学院教授，熵一资本首席经济学家，朱鹤、许佩玉、黄婉菁任职于熵一资本全球宏观研究院；编辑：苏琦）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(He Fan, professor at Shanghai Jiaotong University's Antai School of Economics and Management, and chief economist Entropy-Capital, Zhu He, Xu Pei-yu and Huang Wanjing work at Entropy-Capital Global Macroscopic Institute.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情四重冲击，全球化要倒退？。
New Crown Epidemic Four-fold Impact, Globalization to Reverse?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情四重冲击，全球化要倒退？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "全球疫情的进一步扩散，将对全球经济带来较大的冲击，而由于国际局势已经与全球金融危机爆发时大为不同，全球合作的前景不容乐观，新冠疫情有可能随之会给全球经济带来第四次冲击波";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
