火神山工人想回家：至少9人确诊，生计暂难为继 | 直击武汉。
Flamingo workers want to go home: At least nine people have been diagnosed. Livelihood is at stake at & # 124; & # 45; straight to Wuhan.
刘以秦。
Liu Yiqin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
同样是从全国各地赶来支援武汉，他们的身份比较尴尬，既不属于救援队，也不算“滞留人员”文|《财经》记者 刘以秦编辑|谢丽容3月17日，第一批41支援助湖北的医疗队踏上了返程，武汉人民热情欢送这些来自全国各地的医护人员。
As well as coming from all over the country to support Wuhan, their identities were awkward and neither part of the rescue team, nor did they belong to Ren Liuyin, a reporter at Caijing. On March 17, the first group of 41 medical teams assisting Hubei started their return journey.
另一头，洪山区的一座隔离观察点，出现了一些骚动。
At the other end, a secluded observation point in the Hongshan area caused some commotion.
这里是用于隔离观察火神山医院和雷神山医院撤下来的工人，共377名工人，他们住在中建铂公馆项目的活动板房里。
It is used to isolate the 377 workers who were evacuated from Mount Huoshen Hospital and Lei Shenshan Hospital, who were housed in the pantry of the Zhongjian Platinum Mansion Project.
《财经》记者获得的中建铂公馆的隔离工人统计名单显示，最晚一批撤出的22名工人于2月28日开始隔离。
According to a statistical list of segregated workers at the Zhongjian platinum complex obtained by Caijing, the 22 workers who had been evacuated at the latest began to be quarantined on 28 February.
到3月14日，所有377名工人都已经隔离满了14天。
By 14 March, all 377 workers had been quarantined for 14 days.
他们并未接到可以返乡的通知，也不能离开隔离点，隔离期内有补助，一人约5000元，隔离期满后，不再发放补助。
They were not notified of the possibility of returning to their homes, nor were they allowed to leave the quarantined area. They received a stipend of about $5,000 for the duration of the isolation period.
工人向现场维护秩序的工作人员提出了两点诉求：一是希望可以尽快返乡开工，或是明确能返乡的时间；二是继续酌情发放隔离期以外的补贴。
The workers made two appeals to the workers at the scene: first, to return home as soon as possible, or to specify the time by which they could return to their homes; and, secondly, to continue to provide benefits beyond the quarantine period, as appropriate.
一位现场的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，工人们围住隔离点大门，不让工作人员进出，城建局、信访局的人也来了，但没能给出明确的结果，“只能再报到市政府，尽快出返乡方案，但是现在谁也不知道什么时候能离开武汉。
A staff member at the scene told Caijing that workers had surrounded the gates to keep out workers and that people from the URA and the Letters and Visits Bureau had arrived, but could not give a definite result.
”还有一些从火雷两山撤离的工人，自费隔离在酒店或其他安置点，所需费用需要自己承担，隔离期满后，会收到一张健康证明，可以在武汉继续工作。
Some of the workers evacuated from the two mountains were isolated at their own expense in hotels or other settlements at their own expense, and at the end of which they received a health certificate and were able to continue their work in Wuhan.
但目前武汉还未全面复工，各类工程建筑工地都还处于停工状态，一位参与雷神山建设的工人告诉《财经》记者，他正在面临经济压力：“在老家的朋友们都已经开工了，而我现在没有收入。
But Wuhan has not yet resumed full-scale work, and construction sites for all kinds of projects are still at a standstill. A worker involved in the construction of Mount Lei told Caijing that he is under economic pressure: "Friends at home have already started and I have no income.
”中建三局是此次两山医院建设的总指挥，中建三局的一位负责工人管理的人士告诉《财经》记者，工人们的不满情绪已经持续了好几天，甚至出现了有人负气损坏隔离点设施的现象。
A worker in charge of the three bureaus told Caijing that workers' discontent had gone on for days, and there had even been cases of people taking gas and damaging the facility.
上述人士称，已经给武汉政府各个部门沟通了，但现在还没有解决方案。
These people said that the Wuhan government departments have been communicated, but there is no solution.
火雷两山撤下来的工人分为一期和二期，一期是普通工人，二期是在收治病人后，还进病区维护施工过的工人，前述中建三局人士告诉《财经》记者，有约70名二期工人被隔离在蔡甸区的一个工地板房里，通过核酸检测后，有9名工人确诊，还有一些工人核酸阴性，但肺部CT显示有感染。
The workers evacuated from the two mountains were divided into two phases, one for ordinary workers and the other for workers who had been in the sick area after receiving treatment. About 70 Phase II workers were quarantined in a slate room in Cai Den district. Nine workers tested positive for nucleic acid, while others showed negative lung CT findings, Caijing told China Finance.
3月17日，由于蔡甸区隔离点板房的条件较差，这批工人被转移到市区里的隔离点继续隔离观察，“确诊和疑似的病人都已经收治了，剩下的这些也已经隔离了14天，目前没有出现新的感染情况。
On 17 March, as a result of the poor condition of the shanty houses in the Cai Den area, the workers were moved to isolated sites in the urban areas to continue to observe isolation, "the confirmed and suspected patients have been admitted and the remaining cases have been isolated for 14 days, with no new infections reported."
”对于更多工人来说，最大的困难就是在隔离期满后没有收入，一些没有被集中隔离管理的工人选择在武汉寻找其他工作机会，武汉目前仍然在郊区建设方舱，但工人的需求量并不大，大部分人只能就地等待。
For many more workers, the biggest difficulty is no income after the end of segregation, with some workers not centrally segregated choosing to look for other jobs in Wuhan, which is still building cabins in the suburbs, but there is little demand for workers and most people have to wait on the spot.
“做好了被感染的心里准备”2月4日，火神山医院收治第一批病人后，现场仍然在继续施工。
"Be prepared for the infection." Construction continued on Feb. 4 after the first group of patients were admitted to Mount Fukuyama Hospital.
工程负责人李海（化名）管理的工人们开始担忧，担心有感染风险，不想干了。
Workers managed by engineering director Li Hai (not his real name) began to worry, worried about the risk of infection, do not want to do.
李海1月24日到达火神山，开工后基本天天连轴转，2月4日收治病人之前的3天，是现场最为紧张的抢工期，一天只能睡1-2个小时。
Li Hai arrived at Mount Fire on January 24, basically daily rotation after the start of work, February 4 before the treatment of the three-day site is the most intense fighting period, can only sleep 1-2 hours a day.
火神山医院直到2月中旬才基本完工，但他没有撤离，留下来做后期维护工作。
The Mount Huoshen Hospital was not substantially completed until mid-February, but he did not evacuate and remained for the later maintenance work.
这确实是有被感染风险的。
There is a real risk of infection.
2月15日，武汉下大雨，火神山医院的个别区域，包括病区，出现了天花板漏水的情况，他半夜紧急组织工人进去维修。
On February 15, heavy rain in Wuhan, Huoshen Mountain Hospital, including the individual areas, the ceiling leaks, he emergency workers in the middle of the night repair.
由于火神山和雷神山医院是紧急搭建完成，没有物业保障，医疗垃圾会统一在现场焚烧，但生活垃圾不能被及时处理，李海说，有病人会往病区厕所下水道里扔垃圾，下水道经常出现堵塞，工人们就要立刻冒着被感染的风险进去维修，“如果扔一只N95口罩进去，一定会堵住，维修的风险很高。
Without property protection, medical waste will be burned at the scene. However, domestic waste cannot be disposed of in a timely manner, Li said. Patients throw garbage into toilets and sewers in sick areas, sewers are often clogged and workers are exposed to the risk of infection.
”两山医院都设置了红区和黄区，也就是污染区和半污染区，工人如果要进去，需要做好防护准备，现场的医护人员会帮他们检查，是否防护到位。
Both hospitals have red and yellow areas, or polluted and semi-polluted areas, and workers need to be prepared to go in if they want to go in.
前述中建三局员工提到，收治病人后，还有工人会去维修通风管道，通风管道既不完全属于红区，也不完全属于黄区，覆盖了整个医院，直接通向病房，工人维修的时候通常全套防护装备，但风险也不是没有，无法保证万无一失。
The staff of the three bureaus mentioned that after receiving patients, workers would repair the ventilation pipes, which were neither completely red nor yellow. They covered the whole hospital and went directly to the wards. The workers usually maintained full protective equipment, but the risks were not unknown and there was no guarantee of safety.
工人们撤离出来后，部分工人统一接受了核酸和CT检测，检查费用由公司承担，“表面看起来都没有症状，但是查出不少肺部呈磨玻璃状的。
When the workers were evacuated, some of the workers were tested for nucleic acids and CT at the company's expense. "None of them looked symptomatic on the surface, but many of the lungs were found to be glassy.
”被查出来的确诊和疑似病人都已经收治，治疗费用全免，目前没有死亡案例。
The confirmed and suspected patients have been admitted free of charge and there have been no deaths.
但工作人员仍然不敢掉以轻心，3月16日，有医生过来给他们培训，“医生说，有一些确诊病人是因为药物压制所以核酸转阴，这类病人还未形成抗体，有复阳的可能性。
But staff members still dare not take it lightly. On March 16, doctors came to train them. "Doctors say there are some confirmed patients whose nucleic acid is clouded by drug suppression.
”前述中建三局员工说。
The staff said the three bureaus.
此外，还有不少工人未接受核酸和CT检测，工人张晓明2月12日带领约100人的团队进入雷神山工地，他是看到新闻报道的消息，主动报名，他所在的公司将他们报给中建三局统一管理，在雷神山工作4天，他告诉《财经》记者，他带队的工人们都未被安排做检查。
In addition, many workers have not been tested for nucleic acids and CT. On February 12, worker Zhang Xiaoming led a team of about 100 people into the Raytheon Hill site. He volunteered to sign up for the news. His company reported them to the China Construction Bureau for unified management.
在雷神山时，他认识了另一位工友，隔离时他听说那位工友感染了，他有些担心，但是也联系不上，“在这种环境下，有人感染是意料之中，我们都做好了思想准备，政府也提供了充足的保障，包括防护措施和后续的治疗措施。
At the time of Raytheon Mountain, he met another workman who, in isolation, had heard that the worker was infected. He was worried, but could not be reached. "In such an environment, someone is expected to get infected, we are well prepared and the government provides adequate safeguards, including protection and follow-up.
”不能被算作“滞留人员”1月24日，火神山医院开工，1月26日，雷神山医院开工。
Can't be counted as "stranded people" January 24, the fire god mountain hospital began work, January 26, Lei Shenshan Hospital began.
为了赶工期，大量工人被招募，没人能准确计算一共有多少工人参与建设。
In order to meet the deadline, large numbers of workers were recruited, and no one could accurately calculate how many workers were involved in construction.
前述中建三局士告诉《财经》记者，参与建设工人至少有8000人。
Caijing told Caijing that there were at least 8,000 construction workers involved.
张旭从东北老家到武汉，已经一个月了。
It has been a month since Zhang Xu came to Wuhan from his hometown in the northeast.
在武汉的老乡工友告诉他，来武汉参与建设雷神山医院，包吃包住，一天的工资1000元，他带着另外6名工友一起赶到武汉。
Wuhan in the township workers told him, to Wuhan to participate in the construction of Lei Shenshan Hospital, packaging, a day's wages of 1000 yuan, he and six other workers together to Wuhan.
2月4日，火神山收治病人；2月8日，雷神山收治病人。
On 4 February, Mount Fire treated patients; on 8 February, Raytheon Mountain treated patients.
2月28日左右，火神山雷神山医院进入运营阶段，大部分工人都已陆续撤离，仅剩约100名工人留下做后期的维保工作。
On or about February 28, Mount Huo Lei Shenshan Hospital entered the operational phase, most of the workers have been evacuated, leaving only about 100 workers to do the later maintenance work.
撤离出来的工人需要接受14天的隔离观察，多名参与建设工人告诉《财经》记者，一开始他们接到的通知是，可以不在当地隔离，返乡隔离。
The evacuated workers were subjected to a 14-day quarantine, and several construction workers told Caijing they were initially told they could leave the area and go home and be quarantined.
但事情很快有了变化。
But things soon changed.
2月13日，湖南湘潭援建武汉火神山医院的69名建筑工人中有两人在返乡隔离后，确诊新冠肺炎。
February 13, Hunan Xiangtan to help build Wuhan fire god mountain hospital 69 construction workers in isolation after returning home, confirmed the new crown pneumonia.
随后，新的政策马上出来了——所有撤离出两山的工人们，一律不准返乡，统一在武汉隔离观察。
Subsequently, a new policy came out - all the workers evacuated from the two mountains, are not allowed to return home, unified in Wuhan observation isolation.
由于工人数量太多，且来自不同的施工团队，签的都是外包劳务合同，中建三局很难将所有人都集中管理。
Because of the large number of workers and the fact that they come from different construction teams, it is difficult for CCB to centralize all of them by contracting outsourced labour services.
据《财经》记者了解，一些工人住在酒店隔离，还有大部分住在暂停施工的工地板房里，由于资源有限，不少都是2人一间。
According to Caijing reporter, some workers live in hotel isolation, and most live in temporary construction sites, many of them are two-person rooms because of limited resources.
还有一位工人告诉《财经》记者，他曾经被就近安排在汉口北方舱隔离，他住进去时，方舱里都是需要隔离的志愿者、工人。
Another worker told Caijing that he had been quarantined near the Hankou North cabin, which was filled with volunteers and workers who needed to be quarantined.
隔离期满14天后，武汉本地的工人就可以自行回家，但前述中建三局人士说，武汉本地的约占20%，大部分都是外来人员。
Wuhan local workers will be allowed to return home 14 days after the end of the quarantine period, but about 20 percent of the local population is local, most of whom are foreign nationals, according to people in the three bureaus.
隔离期间，会给每个工人发放总额约5000元补贴，外地工人会增加几百块的返程交通补贴，直接打到工人提供的个人账户上，14天后，补贴停止。
A total of about $5,000 is paid to each worker during the quarantine period, and several hundred additional round-trip transport allowances are added to the worker's personal account, and the subsidy ceases 14 days later.
张旭说，现在一天的住宿费加上伙食费，至少要花掉120元钱，他听说武汉对滞留人员有一天300的补助，给市长热线打电话申请，对方告诉他要通过社区登记，他找到社区，社区说他并不属于滞留人员的范畴，“必须要封城前到武汉的才算滞留人员。
He heard that Wuhan had a 300-day subsidy for stranded people and called the mayor's hotline to apply. He was told that he wanted to register with the community, which said he did not belong to the category of stranded people.
”一位武汉市政府工作人员告诉《财经》记者，工人们都是有公司的，所以不算“滞留人员”，“他们属于来汉务工人员。
A Wuhan government official told Caijing that the workers were all company workers, so they were not "stranded" workers.
”张晓明在隔离期满后，又找到了新的工作，他先去蔡甸区建设了新的隔离点，又去了武汉女子监狱，搭建监狱里的隔离点。
"Zhang found a new job after the quarantine expired, first building a new quarantine point in Cai Den district and then going to Wuhan women's prison to set up separate sites in the prison.
“这些都是紧急的工程，基本上工人都是连轴转，没有时间睡觉，所以也不用找地方住。
"These are urgent projects and basically workers are running around without time to sleep, so they don't have to find a place to live.
”张晓明的心态还算积极。
Zhang Xiaoming's mentality was positive.
他的老家在湖北十堰，此前一直在武汉工作，春节前他本来计划回老家，武汉封城了走不了，“短期收入不在意了，只希望武汉可以尽快回到以前的样子。
His hometown in Shiyan, Hubei, had been working in Wuhan, before the Spring Festival, he had planned to return home, Wuhan could not walk, "short-term income does not care, only hope Wuhan can return to the same as before.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火神山工人想回家：至少9人确诊，生计暂难为继 | 直击武汉。
Flamingo workers want to go home: At least nine people have been diagnosed. Livelihood is at stake at & # 124; & # 45; straight to Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "火神山工人想回家：至少9人确诊，生计暂难为继 | 直击武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "同样是从全国各地赶来支援武汉，他们的身份比较尴尬，既不属于救援队，也不算“滞留人员”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; not included in the rescue team or at & quot; s service.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
