上海防疫再升级：境外输入20例，重点关注16国。
Shanghai anti-epidemic upgrade: 20 cases imported from abroad, focusing on 16 countries.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
居家隔离标准升级，集中隔离住宿费自理，原则上有200元、400元两档文 |《财经》记者陈亮 王静仪 李皙寅编辑|施智梁作为中国最重要的国际大都市之一，上海正面临第二波防疫考验——严防境外输入。
As one of the most important international metropolises in China, Shanghai is facing a second wave of quarantine tests - strict precautions against foreign imports.
3月17日下午，上海市卫健委新闻发言人郑锦介绍，3月16日上海新增3例境外输入性新冠肺炎确诊病例，无新增本地新冠肺炎确诊病例。
On the afternoon of March 17, a spokesman for the Shanghai Fitness and Health Commission, Cheng Jin-jin, said three newly confirmed cases of overseas imported pneumonia were reported in Shanghai on March 16.
截至3月16日24时，累计报告境外输入性确诊病例20例，按输入地分，意大利10例，伊朗4例，美国2例，西班牙2例，法国1例，英国1例，均在院治疗。
As at 2400 hours on 16 March, a cumulative total of 20 cases of confirmed cases imported from abroad had been reported, with 10 cases in Italy, 4 cases in Iran, 2 cases in the United States, 2 cases in Spain, 1 case in France and 1 case in the United Kingdom.
现有44例境外输入性疑似病例正在排查中。
Forty-four suspected cases of foreign importation are currently being investigated.
伴随海外疫情不断扩散，上海涉外疫情防控重点国家名录新增8国。
Along with the overseas epidemic spreading, Shanghai foreign-related epidemic prevention and control key list of countries add 8 countries.
在韩国、日本、伊朗、意大利、法国、西班牙、德国、美国8国旧版名录上，英国、瑞士、瑞典、比利时、挪威、荷兰、丹麦、奥地利8国今日进入名录。
Eight countries, including the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium, Norway, the Netherlands, Denmark and Austria, are currently on the list of eight countries, including Korea, Japan, Iran, Italy, France, Spain, Germany and the United States.
一位长期在上海工作的瑞士公民向《财经》记者确认，她于3月16日收到了瑞士驻沪总领馆的通知邮件，过去14天里到过上述16个国家旅客，在到达上海之后都需要居家或者集中隔离14天。
A long-time Swiss citizen working in Shanghai confirmed to Caijing that she had received a notification email from the Swiss Consulate General in Shanghai on March 16, saying that she had visited the 16 countries in the past 14 days and needed to stay at home or be in intensive quarantine for 14 days after arriving in Shanghai.
多位受访专家告诉记者，防输入是当前疫情防控的首要工作，国内目前疫情防控的阶段性进展得来不易。
A number of experts interviewed told reporters that the prevention and control of the current epidemic is the first priority, the domestic epidemic prevention and control stage progress is not easy.
“外来输入风险增高。
"There is an increased risk of imported inputs.
”中山大学公共卫生学院教授陆家海向《财经》记者坦言，由于新冠肺炎已成全球传染病，国外一些地区正像早期武汉一样处于疫情暴发期，而中国防控已取得成效，部分在国外的中国人感觉国内更加安全、决定回国。
Lu Jiahai, a professor at the School of Public Health at Zhongshan University, told Caijing that with the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia worldwide, some parts of the world are in an outbreak like Wuhan in the early years, and Chinese control has been successful, with some Chinese abroad feeling safer and determined to return home.
上海海关怎么做上海虹桥机场和浦东国际机场，是上海此次严防疫情输入的第一线。
Shanghai Customs how to do Shanghai Hongqiao Airport and Pudong International Airport, Shanghai is the first line of the strict anti-epidemic input.
2019年上海航空口岸出入境人员为42621826人次，旅客总数42201084，位居全国第一。
In 2019, there were 42621,826 arrivals and 42201084 arrivals at Shanghai Airport, the highest in the country.
今年3月初东方航空宣布恢复欧洲航线，上海航空口岸出入境航班量较春节期间有所上升。
China Eastern announced the resumption of flights to Europe in early March, and the number of flights to and from the Shanghai airport rose during the Spring Festival.
欧美人员不断输入，上海海关即日起实施更严格的管控措施。
Europe and the United States personnel continue to import, the Shanghai Customs has implemented more stringent control measures.
上海海关副关长叶建介绍，上海海关对来自重点国家的航班实施100%登临检查，对航班上的入境人员实施100%体温检测及100%健康申明卡审核。
Shanghai Customs Deputy Commissioner Ye Jian said that the Shanghai Customs Service carries out 100% boarding and inspection of flights from key countries, 100% body temperature test and 100% health declaration card audit.
上海海关通过登临检疫、健康申报审核、体温监测、流行病学调查等手段拦截的有症状人员，由地方联防联控机制安排直接转运至定点医院并开展联合采样。
The Shanghai Customs Department, through the means of boarding and quarantine, health declaration audit, body temperature monitoring, epidemiological investigation and other means, intercepted symptomatic persons, arranged by the local JCMB directly to designated hospitals and conducted joint sampling.
对症状不明显但经海关综合研判存在较大风险的入境人员，经海关采样后，按照地方联防联控机制，分批转运至集中隔离点实施医学观察。
Imported persons whose symptoms are not obvious but who have been comprehensively assessed by the Customs shall, after being sampled by the Customs, be transferred in batches to centralized quarantine points for medical observation in accordance with the joint local control mechanism.
除上述方式处置外的其他来自重点国家航班上的入境人员在办理完成海关检疫、行李通关等手续后，经机场工作人员引导至机场临时转运区。
After going through the formalities of customs quarantine and baggage clearance, the inbound passengers coming from key countries other than those disposed of in the above-mentioned way are guided to the temporary transit area of the airport by the airport staff.
上海海关都将在上述人员护照上贴标。
The Shanghai Customs will put up a sign on the passports of the above-mentioned persons.
红黄颜色标签旅客一律隔离，机场会同航空公司、上海16个区驻在机场工作人员、邻省驻在机场工作人员，将上述旅客分别送到集中隔离点、居家隔离中转点。
Passengers with red and yellow color labels are segregated and the airport, together with airlines, airport staff stationed in 16 districts of Shanghai and airport staff stationed in neighbouring provinces, will send the above-mentioned passengers to centralized and isolated transit points.
护照贴有“绿标”的旅客引导至放行通道。
Passengers with "green signs" on their passports are directed to the passage.
由于疫情扩展速度快，上海海关与上海市实施错位管控。
Due to the rapid spread of the epidemic, Shanghai Customs and Shanghai implement dislocation control.
上海海关将更多人员力量和工作资源投入到非重点国家入境人员的风险管控中。
Shanghai Customs put more manpower and working resources into the risk management of people entering non-key countries.
上海海关对非重点国家所有入境人员实施100%体温监测和100%健康申明卡审核，加大登临检查和流行病学调查力度，大幅度增加旅客核酸检测覆盖面。
The Shanghai Customs Administration has implemented 100 percent temperature monitoring and 100 percent health declaration card audit for all non-key state-owned personnel, stepped up boarding inspection and epidemiological investigation, and significantly increased the coverage of passenger nucleic acid testing.
同时，加大对健康申明瞒报行为的惩处，引导入境人员如实进行健康申报。
At the same time, we will increase the penalties for concealment of health claims and guide people entering the country to make truthful health declarations.
北京航空航天大学公共管理学院教授、清华大学中国应急管理基地兼职研究员詹承豫建议，可制定标准限定来华人员，比如在买机票时就要出示健康申报和明确事由；来华人员需经严格检测，隔离费用应主要由个人承担；集中精力研究疫苗；发扬人道主义精神，对外展开包括专家、物资、防控技术、防控策略的相关援助。
Zhang Chengyu, a professor at the Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics and a part-time researcher at the China Emergency Management Base at Tsinghua University, suggested setting standards for people to come to China, such as health declaration and clear reasons.
入境隔离怎么做？过去14天来自或去过重点国家的入境人员之后如何管控？上海市民政局副局长曾群用三个“严”表达上海管控决心：从严从紧落实14天居家隔离健康观察措施，管理流程将更加严密，居家隔离标准将更加严格。
Mr Tsang, deputy director of the Shanghai Civil Administration, expressed Shanghai's determination to tighten the 14-day stay-at-home quarantine by strictly enforcing the 14-day stay-at-home health watchdog, tightening management procedures and tightening home quarantine standards.
曾群表示，同一家庭中，居家隔离对象和非居家隔离对象不可以住在同一套房子里，但承诺一起居家隔离健康观察的，可以住在同一套房子里。
Mr Tsang said that, in the same household, home-based and non-residential isolators could not live in the same house, but those who promised to stay together to observe health isolation could live in the same house.
如果全家人都需要居家隔离健康观察的，也可以住在同一套房子里。
Families can also live in the same house if they need a home-based health monitor.
具备居家隔离条件的重点国家入境人员抵达后，全部由各区工作人员集中接送到各区的“临时集中留验点”。
After the arrival of the key national immigration personnel with the condition of home isolation, all the staff in the districts will be transported to the "temporary centralized inspection points" in the districts.
3月16日夜、17日晨，上海各区连夜制定方案，做好“临时集中留验点”的选点设置、场所消毒。
On the night of March 16 and 17, all districts in Shanghai worked out plans overnight to set up sites and disinfect sites for temporary and centralized check-points.
各级民政、卫健、公安、海关、边检、机场等部门积极联动，加强从口岸入口到居村社区的全流程闭环管理。
The departments of civil affairs, public health, public security, customs, border inspection and airports at all levels are actively linked to strengthen the whole process of closed-loop management from the port entrance to the host community.
各居村委会严阵以待，做好与社区卫生服务中心人员上门甄别、评估和确认的工作预案。
Each village committee is ready to do a good job with community health service center personnel door-to-door screening, evaluation and confirmation of the work plan.
被接送到各区“临时集中留验点”后，相关人员将先进行核酸测试，结果为阴性的，再由各区护送至居家隔离场所进行为期14天的居家隔离；结果为阳性的，则按规定流程转送至规定的医疗机构诊治。
After being transported to the "temporary collective testing point" in each district, the person concerned will be tested for nucleic acid, then escorted by the districts to a home isolation facility for a period of 14 days. If the results are positive, they are referred to the prescribed medical institution for treatment in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
在等待核酸检测结果期间，相关社区将上门核查上述人员是否具备居家隔离条件。
While awaiting the results of the nucleic acid test, the communities concerned will conduct a door-to-door verification of the isolation of the above-mentioned persons.
如不具备，则一律实行集中隔离。
Where they do not exist, centralized segregation is practised.
住宿费原则上有每人每天200元左右或400元左右两档。
Accommodation costs are in principle about 200 yuan or 400 yuan per person per day.
重点国家入境人员进入小区开始居家隔离健康观察后，地区公安、卫健部门将会同社区更加严格落实管理措施，确保居家隔离人员不离开住所。
When key state residents enter the housing estate and begin to observe quarantine, local public security and health authorities, together with the community, will more strictly implement management measures to ensure that people living in isolated homes do not leave their homes.
对擅自离开的，将依法处置。
Those who leave without permission will be dealt with according to law.
曾群表示，欢迎居民群众进行监督。
Zeng said that residents are welcome to carry out supervision.
“回溯此前经验，上海采用了内紧外松的方式，对疫情管控方式颇为妥当，”上海交通大学中国公益发展研究院院长、中国社会组织促进会专家委员徐家良教授对《财经》记者表示，上海有很强的跨部门、跨层级、跨区域，防控体系动员能力，通过网格化、属地化管理，将街道、居委、卫生、民政、公安都有效动员，实现属地追责、管理到位。
"Looking back on previous experience, Shanghai has adopted a tight-fitting approach to epidemic control," Xu Jialiang, director of the Shanghai Jiaotong University Institute of Chinese Community Development and expert member of the China Council for the Promotion of Social Organizations, told Caijing.
如居家条件不具备隔离要求的，一律集中隔离。
If the household conditions do not meet the isolation requirements, all centralized isolation.
集中隔离的重点国家入境人员需自理住宿费和餐费。
Centralized segregation of key national immigration personnel to pay for their own accommodation and meals.
其中，住宿费原则上有每人每天200元左右或400元左右两档。
Among them, accommodation costs are in principle about 200 yuan per person per day or about 400 yuan two steps.
从国内其他口岸入境中转来沪、过去14天来自或去过重点国家的入境人员，也将参照上述标准落实居家隔离或集中隔离，并开展流行病学调查。
Persons entering or transiting through other ports of entry to Shanghai in the past 14 days from or to priority countries will also be placed in residential or centralized segregation by reference to the above criteria, and epidemiological investigations will be conducted.
陆家海告诉《财经》记者，传染病防控有三环节：找到传染源、切断传播途径、保护易感人群。
Lu told Caijing that the prevention and control of infectious diseases have three links: find the source of infection, cut off the transmission route, and protect vulnerable people.
目前在没有疫苗用于保护易感人群的情况下，发现传染源、切断传播途径是可行之策，国内防控实践也已经证明了这一点。
In the absence of a vaccine to protect vulnerable populations, it is feasible to identify the source of infection and cut off transmission routes, as has been demonstrated by domestic control practices.
上海按照风险等级来区分来源国，并要求隔离14天，这样的境外防控确有科学根据，广州、深圳等城市也应该跟进类似的管控措施。
Shanghai classifies countries of origin by risk level and requires 14 days of isolation. There is a scientific basis for such overseas controls, and cities such as Guangzhou and Shenzhen should follow suit.
（实习生马文斌、李琼宇对此文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Intern Ma Wenbin, Li Qiongyu also contributed to this article) Updated: 2009-03-12 10: 55: 00 Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
上海防疫再升级：境外输入20例，重点关注16国。
Shanghai anti-epidemic upgrade: 20 cases imported from abroad, focusing on 16 countries.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "上海防疫再升级：境外输入20例，重点关注16国";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "居家隔离标准升级，集中隔离住宿费自理，原则上有200元、400元两档";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in principle.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
