20多国紧急状态，中国如何帮助抗疫？。
More than 20 countries state of emergency, how does China help fight epidemic?
李铁。
Li Tie.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
利用中国的疫情防控经验，帮助其他疫情受灾国度过难关，同时强化未来的合作机会。
Take advantage of China's experience in disease prevention and control to help other affected countries overcome difficulties and strengthen opportunities for future cooperation.
在这个时候，帮助其他国家其实也等于帮助中国自己巴基斯坦新政府上台以来，中巴经济走廊的发展前景开始处于一个较为不确定的状态。
At this time, helping other countries is tantamount to helping China's own new government in Pakistan, the prospects for development of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor have begun to look more uncertain.
图/IC文|李铁编者按：3月15日，一段视频走红网络，在意大利，民众奏响了中国国歌，并高喊“谢谢中国”，意大利人民以此向为他们提供抗疫援助的中国人民表示感谢。
Photo / IC & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; The Italian people thanked the
全球抗疫进程已经进入一个新阶段。
The global anti-epidemic process has entered a new phase.
自全球抗疫进入了关键时期以来，中国在巩固自身抗疫成果的同时，也及时向全球输送援助力量，提供经验。
Since the global epidemic entered a critical period, China, while consolidating its own achievements in fighting the epidemic, has also provided timely assistance and experience to the world.
新型冠状病毒是一种全新的未知病毒，中国在第一时间对病原体进行识别，向世界分享了有关信息，使国际社会能够对病毒得以及时了解和预防。
The new coronavirus is a completely new kind of coronavirus. China identified the pathogen at the first time and shared the relevant information with the world, enabling the international community to understand and prevent the virus in a timely manner.
面对疫情，中国迅速采取了加强检测和隔离、封城、建立方舱医院、学生停课等有效措施。
In the face of the epidemic, China quickly adopted effective measures to strengthen detection and quarantine, seal off cities, establish a square-cabin hospital and suspend classes for students.
世卫组织称，中国防疫经验表明，新冠肺炎疫情可被遏制。
The WHO says China's vaccination experience shows that the outbreak can be contained.
此外，中国还向疫情严重的国家和地区伸出援手。
In addition, China has extended assistance to countries and regions with severe epidemics.
3月12日晚，由中国卫健委和红十字会共同组建的抗疫医疗专家组抵达意大利首都罗马，并带来中方捐助的医疗物资。
On the night of March 12, a team of medical experts from the Chinese Health Commission and the Red Cross arrived in the Italian capital and brought medical supplies donated by the Chinese side.
意大利是欧洲最早为应对新冠肺炎疫情而宣布进入紧急状态的国家，据法国24小时电视台此前报道，在首都罗马出现新冠肺炎确诊病例后，意大利政府早在1月31日便宣布进入为期6个月的紧急状态。
Italy was one of the first countries in Europe to declare a state of emergency in response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown. French 24-hour television reported that the Italian government declared a six-month state of emergency as early as 31 January following a confirmed case of pneumonia in the capital, Rome.
在紧急状态下，意大利各地方政府将拥有更大的权力，并在执行疫情应对措施时可跳过一些繁琐步骤。
In a state of emergency, Italy's local governments will have more power and will be able to skip some cumbersome steps in implementing responses to the epidemic.
据中国网报道，意大利国家传染病研究所的医生们在和中国专家组交流会之后表示，中国医生“从预防、诊断到救治，每一个环节的分享都非常宝贵、有效。
Doctors at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Italy said after an exchange with a Chinese panel of experts that doctors in China "share everything from prevention and diagnosis to treatment, and every link is valuable and effective.
给意大利带来了最前沿、最一手的抗疫经验”。
To Italy brought the most cutting-edge, the most first-hand experience of fighting the epidemic. "
该所附属医院诊疗研究室主任尼古拉·彼得罗希洛说：“我们非常需要中方的经验，并已向中方提出了进一步开展科研合作的计划。
"We really need the Chinese experience and have put forward a plan to further develop scientific cooperation," said Nikolai Petrosilo, director of the clinic at the institute's affiliated hospital.
”除意大利之外，中国还向伊朗、伊拉克等国派出了专家组；向韩国、日本以及欧洲多国提供了抗疫物资援助，包括口罩、防护服、护目镜和新冠肺炎核酸检测试剂盒等。
In addition to Italy, China has sent teams of experts to Iran, Iraq and other countries, and has provided anti-epidemic material assistance to South Korea, Japan and many other European countries, including masks, suits, goggles and DNA kits for testing the disease.
中国已经和韩国成立了应对新冠肺炎疫情联防联控合作机制，与欧盟成立了应对新冠肺炎疫情联合专家组。
China and the Republic of Korea have established the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for New Crown Pneumonia and the Joint Group of Experts on New Crown Pneumonia with the European Union.
中国专家还与欧盟、非盟和东盟以及多个国家举行视频会议，进行经验分享和技术交流。
Chinese experts have also held videoconferences with the EU, AU and ASEAN, as well as with various countries, for experience sharing and technology exchange.
中国发布的多版新冠肺炎诊疗方案和防控方案也被译成多种文字进行分享。
China's multi-edition New Crown Pneumonia diagnosis and control programme has also been translated into multiple languages for sharing.
疫情之下，全球经济风声鹤唳，中国一方面要防止境外输入病例导致疫情的再度传播；另一方面，也在积极采取国际合作，帮助疫情受灾国度过难关，同时强化未来的合作机会。
Under the epidemic, the global economy is rickety. On the one hand, China wants to prevent the re-spread of the epidemic caused by imported cases from abroad; on the other hand, it is taking active international cooperation to help the affected countries overcome the difficulties and strengthen future opportunities for cooperation.
中国城市和小城镇发展中心首席经济学家李铁近期为《财经》撰文分析称，此时，帮助他国也等于帮助中国自己。
'Helping other countries is also helping China itself, 'Li Tietian, chief economist at China's Center for Urban and Small Town Development, said in a recent analysis for Caijing.
在这个时候，不应该渲染其他国家的防疫措施的制度问题，中国应该利用这次机会，继续推动全球化进程，落实“一带一路”国际合作机制，并在其中发挥重要作用。
At this time, China should not exaggerate the system of epidemic prevention measures in other countries. China should use this opportunity to continue to promote the globalization process and implement the mechanism of "One Belt, One Road" international cooperation, and play an important role in it.
（以下为正文）新冠肺炎疫情目前在世界上的蔓延趋势出现了严重的不确定性。
There is serious uncertainty about the spread of the new crown pneumonia in the world.
而在中国，由于及时采取果断措施，取得了明显的收效。
In China, decisive and timely measures have yielded tangible results.
虽然风险尚未解除，但疫情受到遏制的趋势已经十分明确。
While the risks have not been removed, the trend towards containing the epidemic is clear.
目前，防控的重点已经开始从防止国内原发地向各地的传播，转向重点防止境外输入。
At present, the focus of prevention and control has begun to shift from preventing home-grown transmission to focusing on preventing out-of-country imports.
其实我们关注疫情在国际上的演化趋势，应该聚焦在两个方面，一是如何防止由于境外输入导致疫情的再度传播；二是采取什么样的国际合作，帮助疫情受灾国度过难关，同时强化未来的合作机会。
In fact, we are concerned about the international evolution of the epidemic. We should focus on two aspects: how to prevent the re-spread of the epidemic as a result of foreign input; and what kind of international cooperation should be adopted to help the affected countries to tide over the difficulties and strengthen future opportunities for cooperation.
在这个时候，帮助他国也等于帮助中国自己。
To help others at this time is to help China itself.
在这个时候，不应该渲染其他国家的防疫措施的制度问题，忽视了利用这次机会，可能为中国继续推动全球化进程，落实“一带一路”国际合作机制，发挥重要作用大好机会。
At this time, we should not exaggerate the system of epidemic prevention measures in other countries, neglecting to take advantage of this opportunity, which may be a great opportunity for China to continue to push forward the globalization process and implement the mechanism of "one belt, one road" international cooperation.
疫情形势逆转，需要新的判断疫情初始阶段，很多人悲观地认为，可能中国要再次面临一些国家的封堵，经济的风险将会从国内的停工停产转化为国际的封锁，一些产业链可能会被迫向外转移。
The reversal of the epidemic will require a new initial phase of diagnosis, with many pessimistic views suggesting that China may once again face closures by some countries, that economic risks will shift from shutdowns at home to international blockades, and that some industrial chains may be forced to move outward.
根据当时一些国家的表现和学者的分析，似乎是存在着这种可能。
On the basis of the performance of some States at the time and the analysis of scholars, it appears that such a possibility exists.
但事到如今，很多人没有预料到的是，事情发生了逆转。
But what many did not expect today was a reversal.
曾经提出对中国关闭国门的许多国家，也开始被迫关闭自己的国门，而且持续的时间估计要远比中国经历的要长。
Many of the countries that have proposed closing their doors to China are beginning to be forced to do so for an estimated longer period of time than China has experienced.
因为中国虽然大规模疫情发生的比较早，但是在尽短的时间内解决了问题。
Because China although the outbreak of large-scale epidemic occurred relatively early, but in the shortest possible time resolved the problem.
而对于其他国家来说，由于各种原因，导致无法采取果断措施，甚至有可能会使疫情的蔓延无限放大。
For others, the inability to take decisive action for a variety of reasons may even magnify the epidemic indefinitely.
在这种情况下，再次判断全球的产业链在空间会引起什么样的变化，以及如何利用后疫情时期如何发挥“一带一路”合作机制，应该采取什么样的战略措施显得尤为重要。
In this context, it is particularly important to judge once again what changes the global industrial chain will cause in space, and how to use the "one belt, one road" cooperation mechanism in the post-epidemic period.
从国际贸易的角度讲，从因疫情对华暂时关闭大门，到现在因防范其他国家疫情中国有可能还要关闭国门，实际上对全球产业链和国际贸易影响巨大。
From the point of view of international trade, from the temporary closure of the door to China due to the outbreak of the epidemic to the possibility that China will close its doors to other countries due to the outbreak of other countries, which will in fact have a great impact on global industrial chains and international trade.
中国能否在不关闭国门的情况下，继续维持现有的国际贸易格局，可能是需要认真做出判断和决策的。
Whether China can continue to maintain the current pattern of international trade without closing its doors may require careful judgment and decision-making.
我认为，对于来自境外人口和货物不应该采取一刀切的关闭政策，而是应该强化检验措施，虽然会付出一定人力和资金成本，但是对贸易双方维持长期的合作关系以及现有的经济利益是十分重要的。
In my view, there should be no one-size-fits-all closure policy for people and goods coming from outside the country. Rather, we should strengthen our inspection measures, which, while incurring certain human and financial costs, are important for maintaining long-term cooperative relations and existing economic benefits for both trading partners.
从投资的角度看，虽然由于中国的劳动力成本和土地成本上升，导致一部分产业向亚洲其他地区转移。
From an investment perspective, though, some industries have shifted to other parts of Asia as a result of rising labour and land costs in China.
但是通过这次疫情治理效果看，中国的制度优势就是可以经历任何重大的灾难和突发性危机，而不会导致国家治理的失控。
But, judging by the effectiveness of the epidemic, China's institutional advantage is that it can withstand any major disaster or sudden crisis without running out of control of the country.
对于投资者信心的建立尤为重要。
This is particularly important for building investor confidence.
很多人认为，长期以来对中国的投资主要是取决于成本优势，其实制度的稳定优势和全产业链的形成以及国民素质等，同样是投资者必须要考虑的因素。
Many people believe that the long-term investment in China mainly depends on the cost advantages, its stable advantages and the formation of the entire industrial chain and national quality are also factors that investors must take into account.
在如今疫情蔓延全球的危机时刻，考验中国的另一个重要因素就是采取何种姿态，利用有利时机，加大吸引外资的力度，这也是当前非常重要的政策着力点。
At this time of global crisis, another important factor that will test China's ability to take advantage of the right opportunities to attract foreign investment is a very important current policy focus.
例如宣布对外商投资的各项新的优惠政策，特别是结合疫情当下的新特点等，决定对于外来投资人员的防疫措施和隔离措施提供什么样的保障等。
For example, announcing the new preferential policies for foreign investment, especially in light of the new features of the epidemic situation, to decide what safeguards should be provided for the epidemic prevention measures and quarantine measures for foreign investment personnel.
关键时刻见真情，也许利用好了，可以一扫近些年一些国家和投资者观望的阴霾，创造中国国际贸易和投资的新局面。
Key moment to see the truth, perhaps the use of good, can be a few countries and investors wait and see the haze, create a new situation of international trade and investment in China.
利用中国经验，助力全球抗疫从产能分布的格局来看，我们虽然看到了油价下跌等因素，给中国提高石油天然气储备，降低企业成本带来了利好。
Using China's experience, Helping Global Fight Against Plague From the pattern of capacity distribution, we have seen factors such as falling oil prices, which have brought positive benefits to China in terms of increased oil and gas reserves and lower corporate costs.
但是原本应对与突发性疫情的大量应急性医疗物资的生产本来还存在着各种后疫情时代过剩的可能。
But the production of a large number of acute medical materials that should have responded to the sudden outbreak of various post-epidemic-era excess is possible.
如果中国利用这次疫情大爆发，把过剩的医疗物资产能及时地通过合作机制，支援给“一带一路”合作的友好国家，既解决了产能过剩问题，同时又是对这些国家的雪中送炭。
If China takes advantage of the outbreak, supporting friendly countries with "one belt, one road" cooperation in a timely manner through cooperative mechanisms, it will solve the problem of overcapacity while providing a silver bullet for these countries.
当然也埋下了国家间、企业间和民众间相互信任的伏笔。
It has, of course, laid the groundwork for mutual trust among nations, between enterprises and among peoples.
从互联网和信息技术的发展趋势看，中国治理疫情的经验有很多科学和智慧的因素，脱胎于互联网应用的普及和各种城市智慧技术市场化的广泛运用。
From the development trend of Internet and information technology, China's experience in controlling epidemic situation has many scientific and intelligent factors, which are derived from the popularization of Internet application and the wide application of various urban intelligent technologies.
在推进“一带一路”防疫合作机制的同时，还可把互联网和信息技术在城市中运用方式加以推广，包括对于城市和社区居民在封闭以及自我隔离期间的心理支持和生活保障支持，以及在复工中利用互联网优势，采取视频会议和互联网办公模式的运用等，特别是推广各种后台软技术和前台硬技术。
While promoting the "One Belt, One Road" cooperation mechanism for epidemic prevention, the Internet and information technology can be promoted in urban settings, including psychological support and livelihood support for urban and community residents during periods of isolation and self-isolation, as well as the use of the Internet for back-to-work applications such as videoconferencing and Internet office models, especially through the promotion of back-office soft technologies and hard front technologies.
总之，可以把这些在中国抗疫过程中行之有效的中国优势，通过防疫体系的建设，作为支援“一带一路”国家的重点内容，这需要在建立专家支援团队的时候，就充分考虑这方面成员以及技术人员的组合。
All in all, the advantages of China, which have proved effective in fighting epidemic diseases in China, can be highlighted in the support to the "one belt, one road" country through the establishment of an epidemic prevention system.
之所以提出通过“一带一路”合作机制，建立全球化的防疫体系，原因在于，一是通过已有机制可以迅速得到相应；二是参与这个机制的各国与中国基本都是友好国家；三是还可以通过这个机制扩大“一带一路”的影响；四是在这个特殊时期，人们对于传统机制的依赖，可以通过防疫而增加机制的互信；五是还可以通过“一带一路”的金融合作机制，帮助受灾国家解决资金压力问题。
Through the "One Belt, One Road" cooperation mechanism, we can establish a global epidemic prevention system because, on the one hand, we can quickly get corresponding epidemic prevention system through existing mechanism, on the other hand, we can expand the influence of "One Belt, One Road" with China.
对于反对“一带一路”甚至一些拆台的国家，我们仍然可以采取先民间、后国家的方式，让他们知道享有“一带一路”国际合作机制的好处。
For those who oppose "one belt, one road," or even some countries that are falling apart, we can still take a civilian, post-national approach and make them aware of the benefits of having a "one belt, one road" international cooperation mechanism.
中国的目标是争取扩大相关国家的合作范畴，化解矛盾和对立，同时区分友好国家和竞争国家，采取各种不同的方式，尽最大可能实现化敌为友。
China's goal is to seek to broaden the scope of cooperation among the countries concerned, to defuse contradictions and antagonisms, and to distinguish between friendly and competitive countries, taking various ways to maximize friendship between enemies.
当然也要坚持国际交往的基本原则，对于继续持顽固立场的国家，区分国家和人民采取不同的政策措施。
We must, of course, adhere to the basic principles of international exchanges and adopt different policy measures for countries and peoples that continue to hold intransigent positions.
近几年，全球化的格局遭遇了单边主义的严峻挑战。
In recent years, the pattern of globalization has been severely challenged by unilateralism.
但是从发展的趋势看，单边主义并不得人心。
But in terms of development trends, unilateralism is unpopular.
而这次疫情的全球爆发，同时对各个国家的发展水平、治理能力和应急措施的采取，都是一次严峻挑战。
The global outbreak of the epidemic is a serious challenge to the level of development, governance and emergency response of individual countries.
中国虽然在国内的疫情治理上取得了成功，但是应对全球的防疫格局，注定无法独善其身。
Although China has achieved success in the treatment of the epidemic at home, it is doomed to be unable to cope with the global epidemic situation.
因此如何利用好危机带来的挑战和机遇，实现全球格局贸易的重塑和突破，机不可失时不再来。
Therefore, how to make good use of the challenges and opportunities brought about by the crisis, to achieve a global pattern of trade restructuring and breakthrough, the opportunity will not come again.
具体建议如下：建立“一带一路”国家疫情防控合作机制。
Specific recommendations are as follows: "One belt, one road" national cooperation mechanism for disease prevention and control.
在不方便人员往来的情况下，可以通过视频交流达成共识，并通过机制采取合作。
In the case of inconvenient movement of persons, consensus could be reached through video-conferencing and cooperation could be achieved through mechanisms.
建立“一带一路”国家防范新冠疫情援助基金，可从各相关银行以及财政部等方面，筹集资金，也可邀请“一带一路”国家参与这项基金的投资。
The creation of a "one belt, one road" national fund for the prevention of a new crown could raise funds from banks and the Ministry of Finance, among others, and "one belt, one road" countries could be invited to participate in the fund.
加强“一带一路”国家公共卫生防疫体系建设，强化中国有关部门和公共卫生防疫体系在这方面的职能。
We will strengthen the construction of the national public health and epidemic prevention system along "One Belt, One Road" and strengthen the functions of relevant Chinese departments and the public health and epidemic prevention system in this regard.
对相关国家的防疫援助和支持应通过体系建设来完成。
Assistance and support for epidemic prevention in the countries concerned should be provided through system building.
在“一带一路”合作机制下，交流防疫治理经验，包括医疗和城市治理以及互联网信息技术的应用成果和经验。
Under the "One Belt, One Road" cooperation mechanism, experiences were exchanged on epidemic prevention, including medical and urban governance and the application of Internet information technology.
可以通过人力和技术支持的方式进行援助。
Assistance can be provided in the form of human and technical support.
作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is a chief economist with the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho Taoho. Click here to find out more about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
20多国紧急状态，中国如何帮助抗疫？。
More than 20 countries state of emergency, how does China help fight epidemic?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "20多国紧急状态，中国如何帮助抗疫？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "利用中国的疫情防控经验，帮助其他疫情受灾国度过难关，同时强化未来的合作机会。
var msg _ desc = & quot; used China's experience in disease prevention and control to help other affected countries tide over difficulties and strengthen future opportunities for cooperation.
在这个时候，帮助其他国家其实也等于帮助中国自己";。
At this point, helping other countries is tantamount to helping China itself.;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
