疫情引发连环熔断，全球股灾何时平息？。
When will the global stock market crash die down as the epidemic triggers a meltdown?
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
“现在没有系统性的不平衡，我们更像是突然被流星撞击，只不过撞击我们的是病毒，不是流星”文|《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿 编辑|苏琦3月16日再成“黑色星期一”，全球股市又现连环熔断。
"There is no systematic imbalance. We are more likely to be hit by a meteor than by a virus, not a meteor." Yan Jin, a reporter with Caijing, was re-established as Black Monday March 16.
3月16日美股触发本月第三次熔断，道琼斯指数创1987年以来最大单日跌幅。
On March 16, U.S. stocks triggered their third meltdown this month, with the Dow dropping its biggest one-day drop since 1987.
同时，巴西、加拿大、埃及等国股市也纷纷出现熔断，股灾已从美国向全球各地蔓延。
At the same time, Brazil, Canada, Egypt and other countries in the stock market meltdown, stocks have spread from the United States to all over the world.
美联储3月15日再次降息后，美国及全球金融市场反而陷入新的恐慌。
After the Fed cut interest rates again on March 15, US and global financial markets plunged into a new panic.
3月16日国际油价大幅下挫，截止收盘，WTI 4月原油期货收跌3.03美元，跌幅9.55%，报28.70美元/桶。
Oil prices tumbled March 16, and by the end of trading, WTI April crude fell $3.03, or 9.55%, to $28.70 a barrel.
布伦特5月原油期货收跌3.80美元，跌幅11.23%，报30.05美元/桶。
Brent crude futures ended down $3.80, or 11.23%, at $30.05 a barrel in May.
纽约商品交易所黄金期货市场交投最活跃的4月黄金期价16日比前一交易日下跌30.2美元，收于每盎司1486.5美元，跌幅为1.99%。
Gold futures, the New York Mercantile Exchange's most active April session, fell $30.2, or 1.99%, to $1486.5 an ounce on the day before.
纽约商品交易所4月交割的黄金期货价格下跌30.20美元，跌幅2%，收于1486.50美元/盎司，创2019年12月20日以来新低。
Gold futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell $30.20, or 2%, to $1,486.50 an ounce, its lowest level since December 20, 2019.
随着新冠病毒疫情引发的公共卫生危机袭卷全球，全球股市波动性急剧上升，经济不确定性也在增加。
With the global public health crisis caused by the new cap virus epidemic, global stock market volatility has risen sharply and economic uncertainty has increased.
3月16日全球范围内的恐慌性抛售此起彼伏。
On March 16, panic selling erupted around the world.
欧股当天低开低走，欧洲斯托克50指数期货跌幅扩大至6%。
European shares opened lower on the day and European stock 50 futures fell 6 per cent.
法国CAC40指数跌幅扩大至逾10%，创2013年以来新低。
The French CAC40 index fell more than 10 per cent, its lowest level since 2013.
截至北京时间3月16日22时，英国富时100跌7.01%、法国CAC40跌11.25%、德国DAX跌10.28%；恐慌指数VIX期货跌幅23.37%。
At 2200 hours (March 16), FTSE 100 had fallen 7.01 per cent in the UK, CAC40 in France by 11.25 per cent, DAX in Germany by 10.28 per cent and VIX futures in the Panic Index down 23.37 per cent.
亚太股市也全面重挫，中国内地A股上证指数跌3.4%，港股恒生指数跌4.03%(16:08)，澳大利亚暴跌9.7%，菲律宾、印度、泰国跌逾5%，韩国跌逾3%，日本收跌2.46%。
Asia-Pacific equity markets also tumbled across the board, with China's A share index falling 3.4 per cent, Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 4.03 per cent (16: 08), Australia dropping 9.7 per cent, the Philippines, India and Thailand fell more than 5 per cent, South Korea fell more than 3 per cent and Japan closed 2.46 per cent lower.
在金融市场一片惨跌中，美股3月16日大幅低开，标普500指数跌7%，触发本月第三次熔断，美股暂停交易15分钟。
In the midst of a financial market rout, U.S. stocks opened sharply lower on March 16, with the S & P 500 down 7%, triggering the third meltdown this month and suspending trading for 15 minutes.
临近尾盘，美股再次扩大跌幅，道指跌超3000点，跌幅近13%，创1987年以来最大跌幅。
Towards the end of the day, U.S. stocks widened again, dropping more than 3,000 points, or nearly 13 per cent, to their biggest drop since 1987.
截止收盘，道指跌12.93%，标普500跌11.99%，纳斯达克指数跌12.32%。
By the close, the Dow was down 12.93%, the S & P 500 was down 11.99% and the Nasdaq was down 12.32%.
尽管美联储在3月15日再度紧急降息，特朗普之前签署了83亿美元的支出法案，众议院民主党人也在推动另一项刺激法案，但这些大手笔举措都未能有效阻止恐慌情绪蔓延。
Although the Federal Reserve cut interest rates again on March 15, Trump signed a $8.3 billion spending bill, and House Democrats pushed for another stimulus bill, none of these big moves were effective in stopping the panic from spreading.
对冲基金QQQ资本创始合伙人王洲对《财经》记者指出，市场短期内大跌是很多投资者斩仓出局止损造成的，市场的波动性还会继续。
Wang Zhou, founder partner of QQQ Capital, a hedge fund, told Caijing that the short-term plunge was the result of many investors' exit stops and volatility would continue.
白宫经济顾问库德洛3月16日表示，特朗普政府准备向经济注入4000亿美元，以缓解快速蔓延的新型冠状病毒对经济造成的冲击。
The Trump administration is prepared to inject $400 billion into the economy to cushion the economic impact of the new coronavirus, which is spreading rapidly, White House economic adviser Gordon Kudlow said March 16.
全球央行在危急关头，又祭出降息的法宝。
The world's central banks are also offering rate cuts at critical junctures.
在美联储之后，新西兰、韩国、捷克、科威特、尼日利亚、阿联酋、沙特、卡塔尔、巴林、印度、以色列、日本、越南、约旦、斯里兰卡、中国香港及中国澳门共17个国家及地区宣布跟进，采取包括降息或量化宽松等货币政策以维持经济稳定。
After the Fed, 17 countries and regions - New Zealand, South Korea, the Czech Republic, Kuwait, Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, India, Israel, Japan, Vietnam, Jordan, Sri Lanka, Hong Kong, China, and Macao, China - followed suit, adopting monetary policies that included interest-rate cuts or quantitative easing to maintain economic stability.
也有更多的央行表示将加入议息的行列。
More central banks have also said they will join the consensus.
与此同时，七国集团（G7）的一份联合声明说，各国领导人将使用所有财政和货币政策工具来支持受疫情影响最严重的企业和员工。
Meanwhile, a joint statement by the Group of Seven nations said world leaders will use all fiscal and monetary policy tools to support businesses and workers most affected by the epidemic.
G7领导人还表示他们将合作开发这种致命病毒的疫苗。
The G-7 leaders also said they would work together to develop a vaccine for the deadly virus.
IMF总裁格奥尔基耶娃表示，为了防止疫情对经济造成长期损害，有必要出台额外的财政刺激措施。
IMF Managing Director Sergei Georgieva said additional fiscal stimulus was needed to prevent the epidemic from hurting the economy in the long term.
她同时表示，准备好调动1万亿美元贷款能力用于抗击疫情。
She also said she was ready to mobilize $1 trillion in lending capacity to fight the epidemic.
但显然，靠降息提振经济的希望在目前仍不敌疫情的冲击效应。
But it is clear that hopes of boosting the economy by cutting interest rates are still outpacing the epidemic's knock-on effects.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）对《财经》记者表示，此次疫情的冲击不同于2008年的金融危机，那时是金融体系内部出了问题，过多的杠杆积累了大量泡沫。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global foreign-exchange director and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, told Caijing that the impact of the outbreak was different from the 2008 financial crisis, when there was a problem inside the financial system and too much leverage accumulated bubbles.
这一次很大程度上则是“外生”事件，这一点对美国、中国、欧洲等都一样。
This time it was largely "exogenous," as it was in the US, China, and Europe.
杰弗瑞·杨说，2008年时由于金融监管措施太松懈等原因，经济“失衡”不断积累，导致金融市场泡沫不可持续。
Jeffery Young said financial market bubbles were unsustainable in 2008 as a result of growing "imbalances" in the economy, including lax financial regulation.
现在则没有系统性的不平衡，我们更像是突然被流星撞击，只不过撞击我们的是病毒，不是流星。
Now there is no systematic imbalance, we are more like a sudden meteor impact, only hit us is a virus, not a meteor.
当然，如果疫情带来的损害能得以控制，就不用过于担心长期经济损失。
Of course, if the damage from the epidemic can be contained, there is less concern about long-term economic losses.
疫情或持续到夏天在市场的动荡和恐慌情绪依然未散之际，七国集团领导人3月16日承认疫情给世界经济带来重大风险，并表示将采取一切必要的经济政策。
The outbreak could continue into the summer amid continuing market turmoil and panic, when the G-7 leaders acknowledged on March 16 that the outbreak posed a major risk to the world economy and pledged to adopt all necessary economic policies.
七国集团希望，各国央行在疫情之下保持协调。
The G-7 wants central banks to coordinate in the face of the epidemic.
七国集团领导人表示，政策的基调是“不惜代价”，正在动用货币和财政手段抗击疫情冲击，并将协调抗病毒的医学研究。
The G-7 leaders said the policy tone was "whatever it takes" and that monetary and fiscal measures were being used to combat the epidemic and that antiviral medical research would be coordinated.
七国集团领导人称，财长们将每周在实施刺激措施以及其他可能需要采取的措施上进行协调，将解决国际供应链中断问题并促进国际贸易。
The G-7 leaders said that weekly coordination among finance ministers on stimulus measures and other measures that might be needed would address disruptions to international supply chains and facilitate international trade.
七国集团领导人还表示，将努力延缓新冠病毒的传播速度，采取包括合适的边境管控在内的必要措施。
The G-7 leaders also said they would try to slow the spread of the virus and take the necessary measures, including appropriate border controls.
在此之前，因疫情严重威胁全球经济，美国银行将全球增长预期下调至2.8%，这是自2009年以来的最低水平。
Prior to that, Bank of America lowered its global growth forecast to 2.8 per cent, its lowest level since 2009, as the outbreak seriously threatened the global economy.
世界经合组织(OECD)在最新发布的《全球经济展望报告》中，也将2020年全球经济增速预期从新冠疫情暴发前的2.9%下调至2.4%。
In its latest Global Economic Outlook report, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development also lowered its forecast for global economic growth from 2.9 per cent before the outbreak to 2.4 per cent in 2020.
特朗普3月16日发布了新冠肺炎疫情指南，建议人们尽量避免出行，避免10人以上的聚会，避免去酒吧、餐馆和美食广场等地用餐，并尽量避免旅行、购物等活动。
Trump released his guidelines for pneumonia on March 16, advising people to avoid trips, gatherings of more than 10 people, meals in bars, restaurants, and food squares, and travel and shopping as far as possible.
他还表示，新冠肺炎疫情有可能会持续到7月甚至8月。
He also said the outbreak was likely to continue into July or even August.
但他否认了在全国范围内实施封锁的计划。
But he denied plans to impose a nationwide blockade.
但在美国，从地方政府到许多美国公司都采取了严厉措施，来防范疫情蔓延。
But in the United States, from local governments to many American companies, tough measures have been taken to prevent the epidemic from spreading.
纽约州、新泽西州和康涅狄克州已达成一项地区性协议，从3月16日晚8点起关闭所有电影院、赌场、体育馆和健身房。
New York, New Jersey and Connecticut have reached a regional agreement to close all cinemas, casinos, stadiums and gymnasiums from 8pm on March 16.
餐馆和酒吧也只能提供外卖和送餐服务。
Restaurants and bars also offer take-out and meals only.
50人以上的集会也将暂停。
Meetings of more than 50 people will also be suspended.
很多企业也暂时关闭，并取消必要的旅行等。
Many businesses have also been temporarily closed and necessary travel cancelled.
俄亥俄州也下令关闭电影院、健身房、保龄球馆等娱乐场所，并建议将推迟初选日期直到6月。
Ohio also ordered the closure of cinemas, gyms and bowling alleys, and suggested postponing the primaries until June.
3月16日，旧金山宣布“封城”举措，要求民众尽可能待在家中，除非有不得已需要外出的重要事项，但必要的政府职能部门和商店将继续开放。
San Francisco on March 16 announced the "sealing of the city," requiring people to stay at home as long as possible, unless there are compelling reasons to go out, but essential government functions and shops will remain open.
全球经济前景暗淡据高盛预测，受疫情影响，美国第一季度GDP可能萎缩5%。
Global economic outlook bleak Goldman Sachs predicts that U.S. GDP could contract by 5% in the first quarter because of the epidemic.
而市场投资者的担忧已经从疫情带来的短期经济冲击，转向其长期带来的负面影响。
And market investors "concerns have shifted from the short-term economic impact of the epidemic to its long-term negative impact.
全球越来越多的国家在关闭边界，这将进一步加重跨境贸易和人员往来困难。
An increasing number of countries around the world are closing their borders, which will further exacerbate cross-border trade and people-to-people difficulties.
巴拿马宣布禁止不在巴拿马常驻的外国人入境。
Panama has declared a ban on the entry of foreigners who are not resident in Panama.
洪都拉斯政府宣布封闭边界一个星期。
The Honduran Government declared the border closed for one week.
阿根廷和秘鲁周日宣布了边界关闭的防疫措施。
Argentina and Peru on Sunday announced quarantine measures to close their borders.
阿根廷总统费尔南德斯在电视上表示，阿根廷将关闭边界15天，禁止外国人入境。
Argentine President Marco Fernandez said on television that Argentina would close its border for 15 days to foreigners.
阿根廷的公立和私立学校停课至3月31日。
Public and private schools in Argentina were closed until 31 March.
秘鲁总统马丁·比斯卡拉 (Martín Vizcarra)周日说，秘鲁也将关闭边界，暂停民航和航运业务。
On Sunday, President Martín Vizcarra said Peru would also close its borders and suspend civil aviation and shipping services.
他呼吁公众自我隔离15天，以减缓病毒传染的速度。
He called on the public to isolate themselves for 15 days to slow the spread of the virus.
世界贸易组织发布2020年第一季度《全球服务贸易晴雨表》报告指出，新冠肺炎疫情冲击全球经济，全球服务贸易增长减弱。
According to the World Trade Organization's Global Trade in Services Barometer report for the first quarter of 2020, the new crown pneumonia epidemic has hit the global economy and growth in global trade in services has weakened.
该报告称，自2019年底至2020年第一季度，全球服务贸易增长继续呈放缓态势；全球服务贸易最新读数为96.8，低于去年9月份的98.4，也远低于100的基准值，表明全球服务贸易增长低于趋势水平。
According to the report, growth in global services trade continued to slow from late 2019 to the first quarter of 2020; the latest reading for global trade in services was 96.8, down from 98.4 in September last year and well below the benchmark of 100, indicating below-trend growth in global trade in services.
这一指标尚未完全反映出新冠肺炎疫情对全球经济的影响，未来几个月全球经济可能还会进一步下降。
This indicator does not yet fully reflect the impact of the new crown pneumonia epidemic on the global economy, which is likely to decline further in the coming months.
在全球服务贸易各项指标中，航空客运和集装箱运输下降幅度最大，其最新读数分别为93.5和94.3。
Among the indicators of global trade in services, the steepest declines were in air passenger and container transport, with the latest readings being 93.5 and 94.3, respectively.
在新冠肺炎疫情暴发之前，这两个行业的增长已经有所放缓，疫情暴发后其放缓程度进一步加大。
Growth in both sectors had slowed before the outbreak and slowed further after the outbreak.
这两个指数在一定程度上反映了今年1月份以来新冠肺炎疫情的发展态势，即从遏制疫情蔓延的早期努力到接近月底时疫情有所加剧。
To some extent, these two indices reflect the development of the new outbreak of pneumonia since January, when the epidemic intensified from an early effort to contain the spread of the epidemic towards the end of the month.
集装箱航运指数下跌系亚洲船运业务量下降所致，航空客运量下降的影响范围更广，除亚洲外也包括北美、南美和欧洲。
The decline in the container shipping index is due to a decline in shipping in Asia, which has had a wider impact on air traffic, including North America, South America and Europe, in addition to Asia.
同时，全球金融交易指数和信息通信技术服务指数也低于趋势水平，其最新读数分别为97.7和97。
At the same time, the global index of financial transactions and the ICT service index are also below trend, with updated readings of 97.7 and 97, respectively.
建筑业指数保持稳定，最新读数为99.8。
The construction industry index remained stable, with the latest reading of 99.8.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情引发连环熔断，全球股灾何时平息？。
When will the global stock market crash die down as the epidemic triggers a meltdown?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情引发连环熔断，全球股灾何时平息？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; When did the global stock market crash die down?;
var msg_desc = "“现在没有系统性的不平衡，我们更像是突然被流星撞击，只不过撞击我们的是病毒，不是流星”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "There's no systematic imbalance at the moment. We're more likely to have been hit by a meteor than by a virus, not a meteor."
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
