瞒报疫情者被判刑，上海首例！。
The underreporting of the epidemic resulted in the first case in Shanghai.
黄姝静。
NINNINNINGJING.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
被告人李某平隐瞒武汉旅行史，回上海后多次出入公共场所，导致11名医护人员在内的55人被隔离，李某平因犯妨害传染病防治罪被判处有期徒刑1年3个月文|《财经》记者黄姝静编辑 |鲁伟备受关注的上海首例妨害传染病防治案一审宣判。
Defendant Li Meiping concealed Wuhan's travel history and returned to Shanghai. As a result, 55 people, including 11 medical workers, were quarantined. Li was sentenced to one year and three months' imprisonment for obstruction of infectious disease.
3月16日，上海市金山区人民法院公开审理了李某平妨害传染病防治案，被告人因在新冠肺炎疫情期间妨害传染病防治，被判处有期徒刑1年3个月，缓刑1年6个月。
On March 16, Li Meiping was sentenced to one year and three months' imprisonment and one year and six months' probation for obstructing the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases during the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia.
根据通报，李某平从武汉返回上海后，隐瞒行程，多次出入公共场所。
According to the notice, Li Muping returned to Shanghai from Wuhan, concealing itinerary, many times in public places.
李某平在出现咳嗽等症状的治疗过程中，不仅隐瞒了武汉的旅行史，还密切接触了多位医护人员。
In the course of treating cough and other symptoms, Li not only concealed Wuhan's travel history, but also had close contact with many medical personnel.
最终，李某平导致55名与其密切接触过的人员被隔离，包括11名医护人员。
In the end, Li led to the isolation of 55 people, including 11 medical personnel, who had been in close contact with him.
据《财经》记者了解，李某平案从刑拘到宣判仅一个月左右——2月13日，李某平治愈出院，当天即被警方刑拘。
According to Caijing reporter, Li Muping's case from detention to sentence only about a month - February 13, Li Meiping cured discharged, the same day was detained by the police.
这之后，李某平案移送检察院审查起诉，至3月16日，李某平案在法院公开宣判。
After that, Li Muping's case was referred to the procuratorate for examination and prosecution, and by March 16, Li Muping's case was publicly pronounced in court.
疫情防控期间，屡有隐瞒疫情者被立案调查，这些人涉嫌违反的罪名并不完全一致，有的涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪被立案，有的涉嫌以危险方法危害公共安全罪被立案。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, cases have been opened against those who have concealed the epidemic. The charges against them are not identical. Some of them are suspected of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases, while others are suspected of endangering public security by dangerous means.
李某平案为什么是妨害传染病防治罪被判刑？北京市炜衡律师事务所律师周浩告诉《财经》记者，最高人民法院、最高人民检察院、公安部、司法部联合出台的《关于依法惩治妨害新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控违法犯罪的意见》（下称《意见》），这在一定程度上明确了罪名的适用。
Zhou Hao, a lawyer at Beijing's Wei Heng Law Firm, told Caijing that the joint opinion of the Supreme People's Court, the Supreme People's Procuratorate, the Ministry of Public Security and the Ministry of Justice on punishing according to law the crimes that obstruct the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection with pneumonia (hereinafter referred to as the Opinions).
根据《意见》规定，行为人抗拒疫情防控措施的行为，可能构成以危险方法危害公共安全罪和妨害传染病防治罪。
According to the Opinion, a perpetrator's resistance to epidemic prevention and control measures may constitute a crime against public safety by dangerous means and an offence against the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
“认定为妨害传染病防治罪，主要是与以危险方法危害公共安全罪相区别，《意见》提到两类特殊人员危害公共安全之外的其余抗拒疫情防控的行为会被认定为妨害传染病防治罪。
"The offence of obstruction of the prevention and control of infectious diseases is primarily distinguished from the offence of endangering public safety by dangerous means, and the Opinion mentions that the remaining acts of resistance to the prevention and control of epidemics, other than those committed by two categories of persons, are considered as offences against the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
”周浩称：“当前疫情防控趋势下，本案的意义在于以案释法，加大警示教育，引导广大群众依法支持和配合疫情防控工作，按防疫要求报告旅行史、居住史、体温检测、疫情症状，履行居家隔离、医学观察防控措施等。
"In the current trend of epidemic prevention and control, the significance of this case lies in interpreting the case, increasing warning education, guiding the masses to support and cooperate with epidemic prevention and control according to law, reporting travel history, residence history, temperature test, epidemic symptoms, home isolation and medical observation and control measures according to epidemic prevention and control requirements," Zhou said.
”隐瞒致55人隔离，包括11名医护人员2020年1月23日，李某平在武汉住了3天，得知武汉将关闭的消息后返回上海。
The cover-up led to 55 people being quarantined, including 11 paramedics. Li returned to Shanghai on January 23, 2020 after spending three days in Wuhan when he learned that Wuhan would be closed.
李某平返回上海后，为防止家人被传染，独自一人住在松江区的一家酒店里。
When Li returned to Shanghai, he stayed alone in a hotel in the Songjiang district to prevent his family from getting infected.
上海金山区人民检察院指控，李某平明知自己是重点地区回沪人员，仍多次乘坐公共交通工具，出入超市、便利店等公共场所。
The Jinshan People's Procuratorate in Shanghai accused Li Meiping of taking public transport to and from supermarkets, convenience stores and other public places, knowing that he was returning to Shanghai as a key area.
在出现咳嗽等症状后，李某平乘坐公交车前往上海市第六人民医院金山分院就诊，在就诊时不仅隐瞒武汉旅行史，还在输液室密切接触多人。
After coughing and other symptoms, Li took a bus to the Sixth People's Hospital Jinshan Branch Hospital in Shanghai, not only concealed Wuhan travel history, but also close contact with many people in the infusion room.
检方指控：1月30日，李某平签署居家隔离承诺书后，又于1月31日未经申报外出，乘公交车前往药店买药。
Prosecutors allege that on January 30, Li signed a letter of commitment to stay in isolation, and on January 31, he took a bus to the drugstore to buy medicine.
2月2日，李某平再次前往医院就诊，在医护人员多次追问下方才承认有武汉旅行史。
February 2, Li Meiping went to the hospital again, in the medical staff repeatedly asked before admitting to Wuhan travel history.
2月4日，李某平被确诊为新冠肺炎患者，与其密切接触的55人被隔离——其中包括上海市第六人民医院金山分院11名医护人员。
On February 4, Li was diagnosed with pneumonia, and 55 people in close contact with him were quarantined - including 11 medical staff of the Jinshan Branch of the Sixth People's Hospital in Shanghai.
检方认为，李某平违反了上海市相关防疫措施，未主动居家隔离和报告行程，还在签署承诺书后多次外出，多次在就诊时隐瞒湖北旅行史。
The prosecution believes that Li violated the relevant anti-epidemic measures in Shanghai, did not actively home isolation and reporting itinerary, but also signed a commitment to go out several times, many times in the medical treatment of Hubei travel history.
“李某平为了一己之便，罔顾公共安全，为社会防疫带来巨大的隐患，其行为已违反传染病防疫法规定，涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪。
"Li Meiping, for his own sake and in disregard of public security, has brought great danger to social epidemic prevention.
即使现在防控形势有所好转，也不能姑息此类违法行为。
Even now that the situation has improved, such violations cannot be condoned.
”检察官同时指出，李某平到案后如实交代犯罪情节，签署了认罪认罚具结书，可依法从轻处罚，建议对李某平判处有期徒刑一年三个月，适用缓刑。
"The prosecutor also pointed out that Li Meiping after the case truthfully confesses the circumstances of the crime, signed a confession, can be given a lighter penalty according to law, and recommended Li Meiping be sentenced to one year and three months' imprisonment, the application of probation.
李某平的辩护律师表示，李某平最初没有其他症状，只是没有胃口，所以以为只是普通感冒。
Li's defense lawyer said Li did not have other symptoms at first, but had no appetite, so he thought it was just a common cold.
“每个人对新冠肺炎的认识都有一个过程，李某平疏于防范主要是因为自身对疾病的认识、对自身的感染状况不了解，并非有意传播或妨碍传染病防治。
"Everyone has a process of understanding the new crown pneumonia, and Li's negligence is mainly due to his knowledge of the disease, his own infection status, not intentionally spread or hinder the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases.
”法庭上，李某平表示认罪悔罪，称自己现在非常后悔，并表示愿意捐献血浆给其他需要的患者。
In court, Li pleaded guilty, saying he was "very sorry" and offered to donate blood plasma to other patients who needed it.
经审理，金山法院当庭宣判，被告人李某平行为已构成妨害传染病防治罪，判处其有期徒刑1年3个月，缓刑1年6个月。
After trial, the Jinshan court sentenced Li Mou to one year and three months' imprisonment and one year and six months' probation for the crime of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
为什么是妨害传染病防治罪？在疫情防控期间，隐瞒行程或病情造成危害后果，无疑是犯罪行为。
Why is it a crime of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases? It is no doubt a criminal act to conceal the harmful consequences of a journey or illness during epidemic prevention and control.
《财经》记者发现，最近全国已有几起因涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪被立案或刑拘的案例。
Caijing reporter found that there have been several cases of cases of criminal cases or detentions on suspicion of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
3月1日，山东省菏泽市成武县法院公开审理并当庭宣判一起妨害传染病防治罪案。
March 1, Shandong Heze City Chengwu County Court open trial and sentence a crime of obstruction of infectious diseases.
这是山东省首例疫情防控期间妨害传染病防治罪案。
This is the first epidemic in Shandong Province during the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
法院审理查明：被告人田某某在新冠肺炎疫情防控期间，违反传染病防治法规定，拒绝执行卫生防疫机构依照传染病防治法提出的防控措施，引起新冠肺炎病毒传播严重危险，被告人田某某被判处有期徒刑10个月。
The court heard that during the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, the defendant Tian refused to carry out the preventive and control measures proposed by the anti-epidemic agency according to the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases.
3月13日，北京通报一起涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪案例。
On March 13, Beijing reported a suspected case of obstruction of infectious disease control.
黎某在美国期间已出现发热、咳嗽等症状，并多次在当地就诊，在美国登机前曾服用退烧药，登机后未如实向乘务人员提供个人健康状况及丈夫、儿子等同行人员情况，给同机人员造成传染风险。
While in the United States, Le Mou has developed fever, cough and other symptoms, and many times in the local clinic, before boarding in the United States before taking anti-fever drugs, after boarding the aircraft did not provide the crew members with their personal health status and husbands, sons and other counterparts, posing a risk of infection.
目前，顺义公安分局以涉嫌妨害传染病防治罪，对黎某立案侦查。
At present, Shunyi Public Security Bureau on suspicion of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases, a case against Lebanon.
周浩告诉《财经》记者，妨害传染病防治罪的认定，主要有三个要素，一是故意危害公共安全之外的抗拒防疫措施的行为；二是，违反传染病防治法的规定，这里的传染病防治法要做广义上的理解，包括《传染病防治法》《突发事件应对法》《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》等系列与疫情防控有关的法律和国务院有关规定；三是，引起新型冠状病毒传播或者有传播严重危险的。
Zhou Hao told Caijing that there are three main elements in the determination of the crime of obstructing the prevention and control of infectious diseases. On the one hand, the acts of deliberately endangering public security against epidemic prevention and treatment; on the other hand, the law on the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases should be interpreted broadly.
周浩表示，认定为妨害传染病防治罪，主要是与以危险方法危害公共安全罪相区别，《意见》提到两类特殊人员危害公共安全之外的其余抗拒疫情防控的行为会被认定为妨害传染病防治罪。
Mr Chow said that the offence of obstructing the control of infectious diseases was mainly distinguished from the offence of endangering public safety by dangerous means. The Opinion mentioned that the remaining acts of resistance to epidemic prevention and control other than those committed by two special categories of persons would be considered as obstruction of the prevention and control of infectious diseases.
《意见》规定的两类特殊人员“已经确诊的新冠肺炎病人”和“新冠肺炎疑似病人”，这是根据《传染病防治法》第七十八条的规定，传染病病人、疑似传染病病人为国务院卫生行政部门发布的《传染病防治法规定管理的传染病诊断标准》，符合传染病病人和疑似传染病病人诊断标准的人。
According to Article 78 of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, patients or suspected patients of infectious diseases shall be the Diagnostic Criteria for Infectious Diseases under the Provisions of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases issued by the health administration department under the State Council, and who meet the diagnostic criteria for patients and suspected patients of infectious diseases.
这意味着行为人虽然出现发热、干咳、乏力等某些新冠肺炎感染症状，但没有医疗机构出具相关诊断结论、检验报告的，就不是这两类特殊人群。
This means that although the actor has fever, dry cough, fatigue and other symptoms of pneumonia, but no medical institutions issued relevant diagnostic conclusions, testing reports, it is not the two groups of special populations.
周浩强调，具体到李某平案，李某平虽不是上述两类特殊人员，但其自武汉返沪后，未主动居家隔离、隐瞒武汉史，有咳嗽症状，签署居家隔离承诺书后，还未经申报外出，事后又被确诊为新冠肺炎患者，已经引起传播的危险，应当被认定为妨害传染病防治罪。
Zhou Hao stressed that specific to Li Mu Ping case, although Li Muping is not the two special categories of personnel, but since his return to Wuhan, not actively home isolation, concealing Wuhan history, cough symptoms, signed the commitment letter of isolation, not declared to go out, and was subsequently diagnosed as the new crown pneumonia patients, should be considered as obstruction of infectious disease prevention and treatment.
针对近期多起被以妨害传染病防治罪立案的事件，中国卫生法学会常务副会长、清华大学法学院教授王晨光表示，《传染病防治法》和《突发公共事件应对法》对应的都是应急响应。
In response to a number of recent cases filed for obstruction of infectious disease, Wang Chenguang, executive vice-president of the China Society of Health Law and a professor at Tsinghua University School of Law, said that both the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act and the Public Emergency Response Law corresponded to emergency response.
应急状态是一种法律规定的特殊社会治理状态，有两个重要特征：政府行政权力依法在一定程度上的集中、个人权利依法在一定程度上的削弱。
The state of emergency is a special social governance state prescribed by law, which has two important characteristics: the concentration of government administrative power in accordance with the law, and the weakening of individual rights to a certain extent according to law.
王晨光表示，以近期多发的确诊患者隐瞒行踪、隐瞒症状事件为例，个人行踪和身体状况本属于个人隐私，但是在疫情防控期间，确诊病例、疑似病例隐瞒前述信息都可能对他人健康和社会安全构成威胁，因此，个人应当根据相关规定如实报告。
Wang said that, while the personal whereabouts and physical condition of patients who have recently been diagnosed often conceal their whereabouts and symptoms are private matters, the confirmed cases and suspected cases of concealment of the aforementioned information may pose a threat to the health and social security of others during the prevention and control of the disease, so individuals should report according to relevant regulations.
“公众应该明白，为在应急状态下有效防控疫情传播，这些关乎他人安全的信息纵使涉及隐私，也绝不再是‘可说不可说’，而是必须依法如实报告。
"The public should understand that in order to effectively prevent and control the spread of the epidemic in an emergency situation, information about the safety of others, even if it involves privacy, must no longer be 'unspeakable', but must be reported as such in accordance with the law.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
瞒报疫情者被判刑，上海首例！。
The underreporting of the epidemic resulted in the first case in Shanghai.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "瞒报疫情者被判刑，上海首例！";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "被告人李某平隐瞒武汉旅行史，回上海后多次出入公共场所，导致11名医护人员在内的55人被隔离，李某平因犯妨害传染病防治罪被判处有期徒刑1年3个月";。
Valar msg _ desc = & quot; Li & quot; & quot; & quot; Li & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
