钟南山当总顾问、最贵入职金加持，富士康为何仍不能全面复工。
Zhong Nan Shan as the chief consultant, the most expensive to enter the job, why Foxconn still can not fully resume work.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 王凤 周源。
Author Wang Feng Zhou Yuan.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
为了尽快回到正常轨道，富士康在过去两周祭出了招工史上最贵的入职奖金，深圳工人响应踊跃，3.7万人报名，最后进入富士康工作的人不到1万图/视觉中国文|《财经》记者王凤 周源编辑|谢丽容过去两周，全球最大代工厂富士康在深圳经历了招人大战。
In an effort to get back on track as soon as possible, Foxconn offered its most expensive induction bonus in hiring history over the past two weeks, with 37,000 workers signing up and fewer than 10,000 joining Foxconn.
富士康龙华园区一位主管何超对《财经》记者说，前几周已经招进3万人，每天招工2000人的节奏持续了两周。
He Chao, a director of Foxconn's Longhua Park, told Caijing that 30,000 people had been recruited in the past few weeks and 2,000 a day for two weeks.
“年前17万人左右，现在估计有18-19万工人。
"There were about 170,000 people in the first year, and there are now an estimated 180,000 to 190,000 workers.
工人成了富士康能否复工的重要指标。
Workers have become an important indicator of whether Foxconn can return to work.
为了加快安全复工节奏，2月25日，富士康宣布，已聘请中国工程院院士、著名呼吸病学专家钟南山担任集团新冠肺炎防疫及复工总顾问，以帮助该公司在中国恢复生产时应对健康危机。
In an effort to speed up the pace of safety, Foxconn announced on February 25 that it had hired Zhong Nan Shan, a renowned cardiologist and academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, as the group's chief consultant for pneumonia prevention and resumption of work to help the company cope with a health crisis as production resumes in China.
人来了，在中国大陆拥有40多个生产基地、百万大军的富士康，面临“管理大考”。
Foxconn, with more than 40 production bases and a million-strong army in mainland China, faces a "management test."
2月10日后，工人陆续复工。
Workers resumed work after 10 February.
每天，龙华园区已复工、新进厂员工需要通过智能识别门禁系统，互相间隔一米进出；产线上工人相隔1-1.5米；体温等健康数据被收集到公司自研的APP中，形成个人健康动态档案。
Every day, Lung Wah Park has been re-established, new plant employees need to intelligent identification of the door system, in and out of each other, workers on the production line separated by 1-1.5 meters; health data such as body temperature are collected into the company's self-researched APP to form a dynamic personal health file.
20%，40%，60%，80%……目前，富士康国内各厂区复工率缓慢攀升。
At present, the rate of return to work in Foxconn is slowly rising.
富士康母公司鸿海科技集团（下称“鸿海”）在越南、印度、墨西哥等地的厂区已经满载营运。
Foxconn's parent, Hon Hai Technology Group (Hon Hai), is now fully operational in Vietnam, India and Mexico.
但疫情对复工节奏的影响，已经反映在资本营收和资本市场上。
But the impact of the epidemic on the pace of return to work has been reflected in capital income and capital markets.
3月5日，富士康称2月份营收2175亿元新台币（约合72.8亿美元），同比下滑18.1%，创2013年3月以来最大月跌幅。
On March 5, Foxconn reported revenue of T $217.5 billion (US $7.28 billion) in February, down 18.1 per cent year-on-year, the biggest monthly decline since March 2013.
2月10日以来，鸿海（2317）股价已下跌10%（截至3月13日）。
Hon Hai (2317) shares have fallen 10 per cent since February 10 (as of March 13).
3月12日，鸿海前董事长郭台铭称，目前在供应端包括中国大陆、越南和中国台湾等地区，复工进展超乎预期，不担心供应链，消费市场是否可成长才是关键。
On March 12, Hon Hai's former chairman, Gou Deming, said the resumption of work was progressing faster than expected on the supply side, including in China, Vietnam and Taiwan, and that it was crucial that consumer markets could grow without worrying about the supply chain.
不过，供应链的复苏恐怕也没那么迅速。
But the supply-chain recovery may not be as rapid.
图/视觉中国多位代工行业人士向《财经》记者表示，复产联动产业链上下游、供应商网络，富士康完全复产面临困难。
A number of Chinese subcontractors told Caijing that it was difficult for Foxconn to fully resume production because of the network of suppliers and upstream of the industrial chain.
稳住苹果的催单情绪，招聘更多的季节工，尽可能快速地盘活供应网络，是富士康的当务之急。
Keeping Apple's buying mood steady, recruiting more seasonal workers, and invigorating the supply network as quickly as possible are Foxconn's top priorities.
鸿海此前就面临人工成本不断抬升、中美博弈等问题，受此次疫情影响，富士康早已开启的自动化升级和产能外迁，有了更加紧迫的时间表。
Hon Hai has faced rising labor costs and games between China and the US, and the epidemic has pushed Foxconn into a much more urgent schedule of automation upgrades and capacity shifts.
一位台湾地区代工行业高管对《财经》记者称，富士康产能撤离大陆依然缓慢，不过节奏会加快。
'Foxconn is still moving slowly away from the mainland, but at a faster pace, 'a Taiwanese industry executive told Caijing.
用钱砸出复工率鸿海的iPhone生产主要集中在富士康郑州、深圳和太原，另有少部分在印度。
Huanghai's iPhone production is concentrated in Foxconn, Shenzhen and Taiyuan, and to a lesser extent in India.
2月18日，苹果公司宣布业绩预警，受疫情影响，全球iPhone供应紧张。
On Feb. 18, Apple announced an early warning that global iPhone supplies were tight because of the epidemic.
能够保证正常供应，核心在富士康。
Can guarantee the normal supply, core in Foxconn.
富士康郑州承接90%的iPhone订单。
Foxconn takes over 90% of iPhone orders.
此前《财经》曾报道，为了激励返岗，iDPBG（数位产品事业群，integrated Digital Product Business Group）早在2月15日就推出“防疫返岗激励奖”，郑州的在职员工返岗可获得3000元奖励。
Earlier, Caijing reported that in order to stimulate the return to work, the iDPG (Digital Product Group, Integrated Digital Product Group) launched the "Anti-epidemic Incentive Award" as early as February 15.
但这远远不够。
But that is not enough.
2月中旬后，为了鼓励新老员工尽快到生产线上，龙华园区推出了相对诱人的入职奖金分批次发放制度：3月31日之前入职，入职满60天发放4250元，入职满90天发放2500元，共计6750元。
Since mid-February, in order to encourage new and old employees to join the production line as soon as possible, the Lung Wah Park has introduced a relatively attractive system for distributing induction bonuses in batches: $4,250 before March 31, $4,250 after 60 days and $6,750 after 90 days.
但是，每月奖金和次月薪资一起发放，奖金发放时员工必须在职。
However, the monthly bonus is paid together with the next monthly salary, and the employee must be on board when the bonus is paid.
对于新入职员工，另有360元奖金，分三个月发放。
For new recruits, a bonus of $360 is awarded over three months.
多位长期为富士康招聘人士向《财经》记者反馈，这是富士康招工史上最贵的入职奖金。
Many longtime Foxconn recruiters reported to Caijing that it was the most expensive entry bonus in Foxconn's recruiting history.
何超是富士康自动化产线的一名主管。
He Chao is a director of Foxconn Automation Production Line.
2月27日返回深圳龙华园区后，他开始推荐工人进厂，每推荐一人，拿3600元/人的推荐费。
Upon his return to the Longhua Park in Shenzhen on February 27, he began to recommend workers to enter the factory.
何超做个人小中介，自己在抖音、快手上打广告，拉的工人绝大部分是深圳周边聚集的工人。
He Chao does individual small intermediary, oneself in jitter, fast hand advertisement, pull the worker is the worker that gather in Shenzhen mostly.
不久后，管理层也得拉人头。
Soon, management will also have to pull the plug.
2月28日，何超曾说，园区的复工率是30%。
On 28 February, He Chao said the return to work in the park was 30 per cent.
“生产线基本处于半瘫痪状态。
"The production line is basically semi-paralyzed.
”为了尽快恢复产能，富士康龙华要求每个师级干部都有人头任务——必须推荐一个普通员工进厂上班。
To restore capacity as soon as possible, Foxconn requires that every division-level cadre has a head-on task - an ordinary employee must be recommended to work.
完成了有奖金，完不成影响绩效。
Finished with bonus, will not affect the performance.
每天，新进员工在富士康观澜跑入职流程，复工人员在富士康龙华做核酸检测。
Every day, new employees in Foxconn Kwan Lan run on the induction process, workers in Foxconn Longhua do nucleic acid testing.
3月5日，排队3天后，何超做了核酸检测。
On March 5, three days after queuing, He Chao did a nucleic acid test.
龙华园区的西门和南门，排满了人。
The west gate and south gate of Longhua Park are full of people.
算上到达深圳居家隔离等待复工的员工和新进员工，“40%复工率”。
Add in the employees and new employees who arrive in Shenzhen and are waiting to return to work, "40% return to work."
但是，苹果在根据疫情走势和市场反应调整订单。
But Apple is adjusting orders to the epidemic and market reactions.
iPhone线上线下渠道均遭受疫情冲击。
Both the online and offline channels of the iPhone were hit by the epidemic.
据中国信通院数据，2月份，整个中国智能手机市场总体出货量634.1万部，同比下降54.7%，android手机占比92.2%。
In February, the Chinese smartphone market as a whole shipped 6.341 million units, down 54.7% year-on-year and 92.2% of the handset market, according to the China Institute of Information and Communications Technology.
照此计算，苹果手机2月份出货量仅49.4万部。
At that rate, Apple's handset shipped just 494,000 units in February.
郭台铭的担心是对的，此前停止营业的体验店陆续开张，但消费需求和线下体验并未完全复苏。
Mr Gou is right to worry that, despite the opening of previously closed experiential stores, consumer demand and offline experiences have not fully recovered.
3月6日，龙华区的招募中心开始实施流量管制。
On 6 March, traffic control was introduced at the recruitment centre in Longhua district.
入职奖励7110元，3.7万人报名。
Induction prize of 7110 yuan, 37,000 registered.
提交入职申请证明的工人，收到了退回信息。
The worker who submitted the entry application certificate received the returned information.
真正进入富士康工作的人不到1万，“很多人在富士康周围睡大街”，何超说，“还有好多人在路上”。
Fewer than 10,000 people actually work at Foxconn, "many sleep in the streets around Foxconn," he said.
他手里几百号工人，“真正进厂只有100多人”。
In his hands hundreds of workers, "only more than 100 people actually enter the factory."
富士康郑州入职员工的返费也开始下降，限制名额。
Foxconn Zhengzhou employee return fees also began to decline, the limit of quotas.
自己招工赚推荐费的周亮对《财经》记者说，很多员工在等，等富士康提高返费。
Zhou Liang, who earned his own referral fee, told Caijing that many employees were waiting for Foxconn to raise the refunds.
3月9日返费下降，招聘现场“人山人海”，应聘的工人急了，开始给周亮塞红包，争取排队名额。
March 9 Fee reduction, recruitment scene "sea of people," candidates for the workers, began to give Zhou Liang plug red envelopes, for a quota.
3月11日，何超“拉工人赚推荐费”的工作戛然而止。
On March 11, Ho Chao's "recommendation fee for pulling workers" came to an abrupt end.
富士康龙华发布通知，内部推荐政策于当日20:00前暂停实施，人力部门、各种内部报名通道都被叫停。
Foxconn announced that the internal recommendation policy will be suspended by 20: 00 on the same day, manpower departments, various internal registration channels have been suspended.
3月16日将推出新政策。
The new policy will be launched on 16 March.
当天，河南郑州确诊1例境外输入新冠肺炎病例。
On the same day, Zhengzhou, Henan Province, confirmed a case of imported New Crown Pneumonia.
11日富士康包车送员工去外地工厂，“路过郑州的员工都被遣返。
11, Foxconn to send staff to the factory, "passing through Zhengzhou employees were repatriated.
过两天政府可能让企业全面停招。
Two days from now, the government could shut down businesses altogether.
”周亮说，“这两天港区富士康冲刺，返费又开始上扬”。
Zhou Liang said: "These two days the port area Foxconn sprint, the return fee starts to rise again."
富士康需要的工人，随着苹果订单变化和返费政策变动增增减减。
Foxconn needs workers to rise, fall and fall as Apple orders change and rebate policy changes.
张超是和朋友3月初到富士康龙华区，等了一周才入职。
Zhang Chao and his friends came to Foxconn Longhua District in early March and waited a week before starting work.
现在突然停招，“很多人都觉得被富士康骗了。
Now suddenly stop, "a lot of people feel cheated by Foxconn."
说好2天就可以入职，现在已经等一个礼拜花了很多钱。
I was supposed to be on duty in two days, and I've been waiting for a week to spend a lot of money.
”张超对《财经》记者说。
"Zhang Chao told Caijing.
他的朋友等不了，直接回家了。
His friend couldn't wait and went straight home.
富士康在武汉核心疫区的工厂则招人困难。
Foxconn's plant in Wuhan's core epidemic area is difficult to recruit.
富士康武汉工厂主要为戴尔、惠普、联想代工台式机，原本有2万余人。
Foxconn Wuhan factory mainly for Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo-based desktop computers, originally there were more than 20,000 people.
在那里工作10余年的资深主管李鑫告诉《财经》记者，他们内部前段时间天天开会讨论复工，此前预计的返岗率不足1/5。
Li Xin, a senior executive who has worked there for more than 10 years, told Caijing that they had met daily to discuss getting back to work.
“确诊1个是严重事故，2个就是重大事故，有可能封掉工厂。
"One diagnosis was a serious accident and two were major accidents with the potential to shut down the plant.
”他《财经》记者说，工厂复工只能分批启动，风险不小。
His Caijing reporter said the risks of returning to work were not insignificant.
80%工人，80%供应链复工难，但复产更难。
Eighty per cent of workers, 80 per cent of the supply chain, are struggling to get back to work.
鸿海70%的产能在中国。
Hon Hai produces 70% of its capacity in China.
富士康百万大军中，60万人为苹果工作，贡献80%的利润。
Of Foxconn's million-strong army, 600,000 work for Apple, contributing 80% of its profits.
大陆与苹果，是富士康长久的底牌。
Mainland China and Apple, is a long-standing Foxconn card.
由沿海深入内陆发展的几十年中，鸿海电子产业链上大大小小的供应商也不断繁衍。
From the coastal development of the inland decades, Hon Hai electronics industry chain large and small suppliers have also continued to proliferate.
复产率，取决于链条上企业的复工率。
Reproduction rate depends on the return rate of enterprises in the chain.
复产是一个网络概念。
Reproduction is a network concept.
据机工智库对679家制造业企业的调研，大型企业复产，需要上百个关键供应商支撑；中小型企业复产，至少需要数十个关键供应商。
According to a survey of 679 manufacturing firms by the mechanical think tank, hundreds of key suppliers are needed to revive large enterprises, and dozens of key suppliers are needed to revive small and medium-sized enterprises.
机械工业信息研究院智能制造发展研究所陈琛向《财经》记者分析，“完全复产，富士康需要兼顾的节点太多”。
Chen Chen, of the Institute of Intelligent Manufacturing Development at the Institute of Mechanical Industrial Information, told Caijing that Foxconn has too many nodes to attend to.
电子产品的供应链绵长、分散，库存有限，突发零部件断供问题棘手。
Electronic products supply chain long, scattered, limited inventory, burst parts supply problems thorny.
广东一家小型企业，2017年成为苹果供应商，主要业务是金属与半导体表面处理。
Guangdong, a small-scale enterprise, became an Apple supplier in 2017, specializing in metal and semiconductor surface treatment.
苹果把项目经过认证和打样后，富士康承接苹果的全制程，分门别类生成生产交易订单，该企业承接表面处理订单。
After Apple authenticated and proofed the project, Foxconn took over Apple's entire process, generating production transaction orders by category, the enterprise to undertake surface processing orders.
该企业总裁向《财经》记者透露，公司2月10日复工以来产能利用率低，“现在只有平时60%订单”。
The company's president told Caijing that it had low capacity utilization since resuming work on February 10 and "now has only 60 per cent of normal orders."
复产还是个选择题。
Reproduction is still a multiple choice.
富士康比较知名的供应商有京泉华、同兴达、科创新源、美盈森、领益智造、瀛通通讯等。
Foxconn's well-known suppliers are Jing Quanhua, Tongxing Da, Koko Innovation Source, Meiyingsen, Yingzhi, Yingtong Communications, etc.
京泉华的主要客户还有格力、华为。
Beijing Quanhua's main customers are also Geli, Huawei.
科创新源的几大客户也包括中兴、华为。
Branch innovation source several major customers also include Zhongxing, Huawei.
领益智造和美盈森的客户均包括富士康和小米。
Ikea and Macquarie's clients both include Foxconn and Millet.
“供应链不会断，但可能会缺。
"The supply chain will not break, but it may be missing.
”上述代工企业高管对《财经》记者分析，富士康一直以来是一家狼性企业，对供应商交货良率低的行为罚款重，付款账期长达150-180天，是其他企业的2倍多。
Foxconn has long been a wolf-like company, fined heavily for low delivery rates to suppliers and paid for up to 150-180 days, more than twice that of other companies, according to Caijing.
疫情期间，各大客户都在催单的情况下，“供应商企业会权衡取舍，作出选择，或者调整产能配比”。
During the epidemic, the major customers in the case of reminders, "suppliers will weigh trade-offs, make choices, or adjust the ratio of production capacity."
富士康也在面临有限产能如何配比的选择题。
Foxconn is also facing the question of how to match limited capacity.
新冠病毒引发的疫情蔓延至全球，每年赶赴富士康的驻厂工程师队伍，今年很难如期而至。
With the outbreak spreading all over the world, it's hard to get to Foxconn this year with a team of resident engineers.
一环扣一环，新产品的验证与量产时间推后，苹果将原计划9月份发布的5G iPhone 推迟到10月份。
The company delayed the release of the 5G iPhone, originally planned for September, until October, as part of a series of delays in verifying and mass-producing new products.
与苹果相比，华为一系列旗舰机、5G产品的发布与开售，预示着稳定的量产需求。
In comparison with Apple, Huawei launches and sells a range of flagship and 5G products, signaling a steady demand for mass production.
尽管各大手机品牌线下渠道均受疫情冲击，2月25日，荣耀仍发布了智能手机荣耀V30 Pro 和 9X Pro，华为发布了5G平板 MatePad Pro 5G。
While major handset brands were hit by the epidemic, Glory released Smartphone Honor V30 Pro and 9X Pro on Feb. 25, and Huawei released the 5G tablet MatePad Pro 5G.
Mate Xs 也于3月5日10:08正式开售。
Mate Xs also officially opened for sale at 10: 08 on March 5.
华为3月26日将举办P40系列线上发布会。
Huawei will hold the P40 series of online launches on March 26.
去年5月16日，美国政府将华为纳入“实体清单”后，美国制造企业伟创力（为华为基站、手机等产品提供组装服务）设立于长沙的代工厂，因停产且拒绝发货、拒绝归还华为价值数亿元的设备与物料，被剔除供应链，相关订单转向富士康。
After the US government added Huawei to its "entity list" on May 16 last year, US manufacturers Huawei, which provides assembly services for Huawei's base stations and mobile phones, were shut out of the supply chain after shutting down production and refusing to return hundreds of millions of dollars worth of Huawei equipment and materials.
英国调研机构Canalys数据显示，2019年中国智能手机销量为3.69亿部，同比下滑7%。
Smartphones sold 369 million units in 2019, down 7% from a year earlier, according to Canalys, a British research firm.
2019年，华为以38.5%的市场份额继续稳坐中国智能手机市场头把交椅。
Huawei continued to dominate the smartphone market in China with 38.5% market share in 2019.
整体市场疲软背景下，华为实现逆势增长，手机出货量从一年前的1.048亿部跃升至2019年的1.42亿部，增幅为35.5%，其他品牌出货量普遍下降，小米和苹果下降了21%。
Against a backdrop of weak overall market conditions, Huawei's shipments jumped from 104.8 million a year ago to 142 million in 2019, an increase of 35.5 per cent, while shipments of other brands generally fell, with millet and apples down 21 per cent.
富士康需要在不断变化的手机市场上权衡、中和。
Foxconn needs to weigh and neutralise the ever-changing mobile phone market.
过去两年，受中美博弈持续、iPhone创新乏力、苹果5G机难产等因素影响，作为存量的苹果iPhone逐渐式微；作为增量的华为，5G手机布局迅猛且卡位精准，其手机也越来越倚重国内市场，不断加单富士康。
Over the past two years, Apple's iPhone has shrunk as a result of continued Sino-American gaming, weak iPhone innovation, and difficulties in delivering Apple 5G iPhones. As an incremental Huawei, 5G phones are fast-moving and pinched, and increasingly rely on the domestic market for additional Foxconn.
除了手机，电脑产能也亟待恢复。
In addition to mobile phones, computer capacity needs to be restored.
湖北省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部3月11日的最新通告显示，对全国、全球产业链配套有重大影响的企业，按程序批准后可以复工复产。
According to the latest notice issued on March 11 by the Hubei Provincial New Grown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command, enterprises that have a major impact on the overall industrial chain may resume work upon approval according to procedures.
富士康武汉工厂代工了全球（戴尔、惠普等品牌）40%的台式机，在整个富士康营收中占比较小。
Foxconn Wuhan works for 40% of the world's desktops (Dell, Hewlett-Packard, etc.) and accounts for a relatively small portion of Foxconn's revenue.
李鑫对《财经》记者说，工厂有考虑将产能转移至深圳、重庆和昆山，“重庆明确回复接收不了，他们自己也忙不过来”。
Li told Caijing that the factory had considered shifting production capacity to Shenzhen, Chongqing and Kunshan, saying "Chongqing has no clear response and is too busy to handle itself."
昆山、深圳则只承接了小部分。
Kunshan and Shenzhen only undertake a small part.
因复工复产困境而延期交货，富士康可能面临巨额违约罚款。
Foxconn could face a huge penalty for defaulting on deliveries delayed by the resumption of work.
新冠病毒引发的疫情虽然是不可抗力，正式开工日之前，富士康可以用不可抗力与客户谈判，但正式开工后，这个理由就很难继续发挥作用。
Although the outbreak was force majeure, Foxconn was able to use force majeure to negotiate with customers prior to the official start date, but that argument was difficult to sustain once the work began.
此前，富士康董事长刘扬伟设定的内部目标是，2月底恢复大陆半数产能，三月份恢复80%产能。
The move follows an internal target set by Foxconn's chairman, Liu Yangwei, to restore half of mainland capacity by the end of February and 80 per cent in March.
3月8日，富士康郑州官微称，截至3月6日，富士康河南各工厂到岗总人数规模已达18万，复工复产率超80%，公司多数供应商复工复产率也达到80%。
On March 8, officials in Zhengzhou, Foxconn, said that as of March 6, the total number of workers in Foxconn's Henan factories had reached 180,000, the rate of resumption of work exceeded 80 percent, and most of the company's suppliers had resumed production at 80 percent.
“80%×80%是多少？”上述代工企业高管向《财经》记者分析称，虽然组装员工要求低，但新招员工纯度不够，很可能影响产品良率。
"How much is 80 per cent x 80 per cent?" Caijing told Caijing. "Although assembly workers are demanding less, the lack of purity of new recruits is likely to affect product yield.
即便是80%的复工率，配合80%的供应链复工率，最后情况也不好说能是什么水平。
Even with an 80% reactivation rate, coupled with an 80% return to work rate in the supply chain, it is difficult to say at what level.
15-20天的交货延期，苹果尚可忍受，但如果超过30天，原本在大陆生产的旧机型很可能转移至印度等海外工厂，新机型后续也可能考虑海外工厂。
A 15-to-20-day delivery delay is tolerable, but older models made on the mainland are likely to move to overseas plants such as India for more than 30 days, with new models likely to follow suit.
全球化产能布局加速目前来看，疫情对各产业的冲击波会继续扩散。
Globalisation of the distribution of production capacity to accelerate the current situation, the impact of the epidemic on various industries will continue to spread.
过去几年，中美贸易摩擦不确定性、中国人工成本提升、全球手机市场饱和等各因素叠加，鸿海的“大象转身”早已启动——以“工业富联”为驱动，由“制造服务企业”向“科技服务企业”转型。
Over the past few years, the combination of uncertainty over trade frictions between China and the US, rising labor costs in China, and saturation in the global mobile phone market has set in motion Hon Hai's "elephant turn" - driven by the Confederation of Industrial Affluence and transformed from a "manufacturing services company" to a "technology services company."
与此同时，伴随着大陆产能转换与升级，附加值不高的低端产能逐步外迁，寻找成本低洼地带。
At the same time, along with the mainland capacity conversion and upgrading, low-value-added low-end capacity gradually out, looking for low-cost low-lying zones.
疫情过后，自动化升级加速。
Automation upgrades accelerated after the outbreak.
iPhone的制造工序有400多个，是普通手机的10倍。
The iPhone has more than 400 manufacturing processes, 10 times the size of a regular cellphone.
标准化环节最容易替换，而类似于拧螺丝等需要力道把握、感官判断的环节，“机器的柔性和精度远未达到”。
Standardized links are the easiest to replace, and similar to screws, such as the need to grasp the power, sensory judgment, "machine flexibility and precision far from being achieved."
中国人民大学中国企业创新发展研究中心主任姚建明教授向《财经》记者分析，对于迭代迅速的电子产品，全部环节实现柔性机器替代人工的成本过于高昂，从当前的技术水平看也不现实。
Yao Jianming, director of the China Enterprise Innovation and Development Research Center at Renmin University of China, told Caijing that for fast-iterating electronic products, the full cost of replacing labor with flexible machines is too high and unrealistic given the current level of technology.
疫情促使富士康加快自动化和智能化的步伐，但机器彻底换人还是很遥远。
The outbreak has prompted Foxconn to speed up automation and intelligence, but a complete overhaul of the machine is still a long way off.
此前不断升级的海外布局也将有变化。
The overseas layout, which had been constantly upgraded, will also change.
2019年8月，鸿海正式启动年产百万新机的印度iPhone生产线，打破以往只在大陆生产新机的惯例。
In August 2019, Hon Hai officially launched its million-new iPhone production line in India, breaking with a tradition of producing new machines only on the mainland.
鸿海香港上市公司富智康（2038.HK）2019年中报称，鸿海多年前就在印度与越南设立手机组装厂，协助中国品牌客户在亚洲、海外及中国境外市场发展业务。
Hon Hai reported in mid-2019 that Hon Hai had set up handset assembly plants in India and Vietnam years ago to help its Chinese-branded customers develop businesses in Asia, overseas and outside China.
本次疫情期间，鸿海印度、越南工厂满载运营，支撑iPhone生产。
During the outbreak, Hon Hai's factories in India and Vietnam were operating at full capacity, propping up iPhone production.
李鑫说，不止iPhone，台式机也有考虑越南。
'More than the iPhone, the desktop has Vietnam in mind, 'Li said.
但是越南大学毕业生少，工程师甚至比工作了20年的自己还贵。
But Vietnam has fewer graduates and engineers are more expensive than they have been working for 20 years.
大客户、市场均在美国。
Major customers, the market is in the United States.
美墨边境原来有一个小型组装厂，台式机的显卡、主板已经在那里组装，“慢慢地会直接在那里生产”。
There used to be a small assembly plant at the Mexico-US border, where graphics cards and motherboards for desktops were already assembled "slowly and directly there."
第三方数据机构Strategy Analytics多位手机分析师对《财经》记者表示，鸿海印度、越南工厂的产能补足能力有限。
Hon Hai's factories in India and Vietnam have limited capacity to make up, a number of mobile-phone analysts at third-party data firm Strategy Analytics told Caijing.
具有较强的韧性的苹果供应链、成熟完善的中国制造体系，是应对疫情的缓冲剂。
Apple has a strong supply chain, mature and perfect Chinese manufacturing system, is a buffer against the epidemic.
从苹果近3年的200大供应商名单看，中国企业（包括香港）的数量由31家、34家上升至40家，涉及领域不断扩大且一路向上游追溯。
The number of Chinese companies, including Hong Kong, has risen from 31 to 40 in the nearly three-year list of Apple's top 200 suppliers, with an ever-expanding field and a long way upstream.
消费电子产品零部件中高价值的产品（显示面板、各类半导体器件、摄像头模组、功能器件、被动元件、结构件）中，2017年，苹果200大供应商中的19家中国大陆公司集中于功能器件、结构件两个领域。
In 2017, 19 of Apple's 200 largest suppliers of high-value products (display panels, various semiconductor devices, camera modules, functional devices, passive components, structural components) were concentrated in the areas of functional devices and structural components.
到了2018年，27家中国大陆公司在显示面板（京东方）、结构件、功能件、摄像头模组、半导体（长电科技）5个领域均有苹果订单。
By 2018, 27 mainland Chinese companies had Apple orders in five areas: display panels (Beijing Oriental), structural components, feature parts, camera modules, and semiconductors (long-distance power technology).
2019年，香港10家苹果供应商公司的30家工厂，全部设在中国大陆。
In 2019, all 30 factories in Hong Kong's 10 Apple suppliers will be located in mainland China.
“不管他们去哪里生产，都需要中国的供应商。
"Wherever they go to produce, they need Chinese suppliers.
”透镜公司研究创始人况玉清向《财经》记者分析。
"Liuyu Qing, founder of Lenses, told Caijing.
富士康由沿海向内陆的“西进”路径，和由大陆向海外的“出海”路径类似——供应商、物流、人力资源与成本，以及背后的整个产业链迁徙。
Foxconn's "westward" route from the coast resembles the "sea" route from the mainland to overseas - suppliers, logistics, human resources, and costs, and the migration of the entire industrial chain behind it.
单就劳动力因素，“中国过去四十年工业高速发展过程中，培育了海量受过基础教育、高效率、高素质的产业工人”。
In terms of labor force alone, "China has nurtured a large number of highly educated, efficient and high-quality industrial workers during the past four decades of rapid industrial development."
此外，动不动就闹罢工的印度工人，远没有国内的工人容易管理。
Moreover, strike-prone Indian workers are far less easily managed than their domestic counterparts.
无论有没有疫情，短期乃至中期，富士康分散于大陆各省份的工厂很难有变化。
With or without an outbreak, Foxconn's factories, scattered throughout the mainland's provinces, are unlikely to change in the short to medium term.
由深圳到成都，郭台铭走了22年（1988年到深圳，2010年富士康成都投产）。
From Shenzhen to Chengdu, Guo has been walking for 22 years (1988 to Shenzhen, Foxconn Chengdu production in 2010).
国内迁徙尚且缓慢，海外则难度更甚。
Internal migration is slow, and overseas is even more difficult.
疫情和中美贸易摩擦一样，只是企业外迁的催化剂。
The epidemic, like trade frictions between China and the US, is a catalyst for corporate emigration.
目前来看，催化效果因疫情全球扩散而打折。
So far, the catalytic effect has been discounted by the global spread of the epidemic.
疫情目前正在全球蔓延，产能和订单转移到其他地方，均有疫情因素，不能解决供应链中断问题。
The epidemic is now spreading globally, with production capacity and orders being moved elsewhere, with epidemic factors that do not address supply chain disruptions.
长期看来，中国的产业升级是工业发展的必然趋势。
In the long run, China's industrial upgrading is the inevitable trend of industrial development.
疫情无疑给置身于这一大趋势中的苹果和富士康敲响警钟。
The epidemic is no doubt a wake-up call for Apple and Foxconn in the midst of this trend.
“分散布局，降低休克风险”，上述代工企业高管及多位受访者对《财经》记者强调，疫情坚定了品牌方与代工厂产能分散布局的大方向。
"Fragmentation reduces the risk of shock," Caijing told Caijing. "The epidemic has strengthened the distribution of capacity between brands and subcontractors."
苹果早已意识到供应链过度集中的风险，近年来一直催促鸿海转移产能，新冠病毒反而变成产能扩散的有力推手。
Apple, long aware of the risks of excessive supply-chain concentration, has been pressing Hon Hai to shift capacity in recent years, turning the new cap virus into a powerful driver of capacity proliferation.
新冠疫情更深远的影响可能正在发生。
The more far-reaching effects of the new crown epidemic are likely to occur.
中国社会科学院经济研究所副研究员倪红福对《财经》记者分析，美国单边主义和贸易保护主义抬头，增加了未来全球经济发展的不确定性、不稳定性。
U.S. unilateralism and rising trade protectionism have increased uncertainty and instability in the future global economy, said Ni Hongfu, associate researcher at the Institute of Economics of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
持续的经贸摩擦使全球价值链分工格局被迫加速调整。
Persistent economic and trade frictions have forced the global value chain division of labour to accelerate adjustment.
美国政府实行‘制造业回流’政策以来，“全球价值链已经在缩短，区域价值链在加强”。
Since the US government's "manufacturing backflow" policy, "global value chains have been shrinking and regional value chains are strengthening."
“疫情可能会加速中美之间的经济脱钩，我国产业参与全球价值链的深度可能不会继续加深，但国内价值链与区域价值链将进一步往上走。
"The epidemic is likely to accelerate economic decoupling between China and the United States, and the depth of our industry's participation in global value chains may not continue to deepen, but domestic value chains and regional value chains will go further."
”（注：应受访者要求，文中何超、周亮、李鑫均为化名）【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
"(Note: At the request of the interviewee, He Chao, Zhou Liang and Li Xin are all aliases. The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co., Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山当总顾问、最贵入职金加持，富士康为何仍不能全面复工。
Zhong Nan Shan as the chief consultant, the most expensive to enter the job, why Foxconn still can not fully resume work.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "钟南山当总顾问、最贵入职金加持，富士康为何仍不能全面复工";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why did Foxconn not fully resume & quot;; when Zhong Nan Shan was its general adviser and most expensive employer?
var msg_desc = "为了尽快回到正常轨道，富士康在过去两周祭出了招工史上最贵的入职奖金，深圳工人响应踊跃，3.7万人报名，最后进入富士康工作的人不到1万";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; Foxconn & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
