因疫情被强制隔离该不该收费？。
Should we charge for mandatory quarantine due to the outbreak?
兰荣杰。
Lan Rongjie.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
对于隔离外来人员的收费问题，简单的判断标准应该是：非自愿选择者不收费、有功于大局者不收费、可能漏网者不收费、质次价高时不收费文|兰荣杰对于确诊新冠肺炎的病人，治疗费用由国家承担，这一政策基本没有争议。
A simple measure of the fees charged for quarantining outsiders should be that those who do not voluntarily choose do not charge for their services, those who may miss out do not charge for their services, and those who do not charge for quality and high prices.
于私是减轻病人负担，于公则是避免“看不起病”的感染者游离在外传染他人。
In private is to reduce the burden of patients, in the public is to avoid "look down on the disease" infected people away from other people.
近来颇有争议的是，如果因疫情防控需要被强制隔离，住宿及生活费用该由谁承担？天下毕竟没有白吃的午餐，接纳隔离人员的宾馆一定会收费，一日三餐也不可能完全依赖捐赠。
It has recently been controversial as to who should bear the cost of accommodation and living expenses if forced isolation is necessary for disease prevention and control. After all, there is no free lunch, hotels that accept isolated people are bound to charge fees and cannot rely entirely on donations for three meals a day.
在政府、个人和第三方之间，如何分担隔离成本才是最佳选项？解决这一争议，需要考虑三个层次的问题：一是合法性，即政府收费有无法律依据？二是合理性，即在依据不明的前提下，政府收费是否合理？三是可操作性，即如果需要收费，具体标准该如何确定？政府向被隔离人员收费合法吗？《传染病防治法》第四十一条第二款规定：“……政府应当对被隔离人员提供生活保障”。
To resolve the dispute, three levels of questions need to be considered: first, whether there is a legal basis for government fees; second, whether government charges are reasonable under unclear conditions; third, how to determine the specific standard if charges are required? Article 41 (2) of the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act provides that:... "the government shall provide livelihood security for the isolated persons."
单看这一款，政府似有义务兜底隔离费用；但如果加上第一款，就知道这一条仅针对“已经发生甲类传染病病例的场所或者该场所内的特定区域的人员”，并不包括外来人员。
In this paragraph alone, the Government seems obliged to cover the costs of isolation; but if paragraph 1 were added, it would be understood that the article would apply only to "persons in places where cases of A-type infectious diseases have occurred or in specific areas of the site" and would not include outsiders.
换句话说，若因本地发生疫情被就地隔离，食宿费用应由政府承担；但若因来自外地疫区需要隔离，《传染病防治法》并未对费用问题予以明确。
In other words, in case of on-site isolation due to a local outbreak, the cost of accommodation and food should be borne by the Government; however, the Communicable Disease Prevention Act does not specify the cost if isolation is required because it comes from an infected area.
市场经济的原则是“谁受益谁付费”。
The principle of a market economy is "who benefits and pays."
即使隔离本地人员，消耗隔离场所食宿资源的也是被隔离人，为何要由政府买单呢？原因之一，“谁受益谁付费”的前提是契约自由，即买家对于买不买、买什么和买多少有自由选择权，卖家不能强迫交易。
Even if local people are isolated, it is the segregated who consume the resources for accommodation in the quarantine facility, so why should the government pay for it? For one thing, the premise of "who benefits and pays" is freedom of contract, meaning that buyers have a free choice about what they buy, what they buy, and how much they buy, and sellers cannot force trade.
对本地人员的隔离恰恰具有强制性，是否隔离、何处隔离和食宿标准这些合同要素，都不由被隔离者选择。
The segregation of local personnel is precisely mandatory, and the contractual elements of segregation, segregation and accommodation criteria are not chosen by the segregated.
如果隔离要收费，既是“霸王合同”，又是“强迫交易”，显然不符合市场原则。
If segregation were to be charged, it would be both a "bully contract" and a "forced trade," clearly not in line with market principles.
原因之二，防疫隔离除了吃住与付费的对价关系，本质上也是政府暂时“征用”高风险人员的人身自由。
For another reason, quarantine is essentially a temporary requisition of personal liberty by the government, in addition to the consideration of food, lodging and payment.
“征用”是一种强制购买，为了公共安全，被隔离人员有义务让渡短时间的自由，但也有权利获得合理补偿。
"Expropriation" is a compulsory purchase and, in the interest of public safety, the segregated person is obliged to grant freedom for a short period of time, but is also entitled to reasonable compensation.
鉴于补偿费用是“羊毛出在羊身上”，兼之对自由的“征用”只需要相对人不作为，而不必像医务人员那样积极冲锋陷阵，所以补偿顶多是象征性的，但至少不应让被隔离人员自掏腰包——正如不可能让医生自己买药上前线。
Given that compensation costs are "sheep out of sheep's clothing," and that the "requisition" of freedom requires only relative inaction, rather than the active engagement of medical staff, compensation is at best symbolic, but at least the isolated person should not be left to fend for himself - just as it is impossible for doctors to buy their own medicine on the front line.
原因之三，如果要求被隔离者付费，可能引发何种社会效果呢？首先是一部分应当隔离的人员可能会想方设法逃避隔离，结果自然是危及公共安全。
The third reason is what kind of social effect might result if segregated people were asked to pay for it? First, some people who should be segregated might try to avoid segregation, with the result, of course, that public safety would be endangered.
一旦出现“漏网之鱼”导致疫情扩散，即便仅仅算经济账，也一定是因小失大。
Once the emergence of "fish leakage" caused the spread of the epidemic, even if only counting economic accounts, it must be a small loss.
其次是不排除部分地方官员与隔离场所勾结，随意扩大隔离范围、提高收费标准，把防疫做成生意，结果难免是助长腐败。
Secondly, it is not excluded that some local officials collude with isolated places, arbitrarily expand the isolation area, raise the fee rate and make the epidemic prevention business, which inevitably encourages corruption.
正是因此，综合权衡免费隔离的直接成本和收费隔离的潜在损失，对于没有选择权的本地人员，地方政府应当实施免费隔离。
It is for this reason that the direct costs of free isolation should be weighed against the potential loss of fee segregation, and that local governments should provide free isolation for local personnel who do not have the option.
问题在于，相比身不由己的本地人员，部分外来人员似乎有充分的自由去选择是否隔离、何处隔离。
The problem is that some outsiders seem to have ample freedom to choose whether and where to segregate than locals who cannot help themselves.
比如近日因欧美疫情爆发，大量旅客回流中国，给京沪等门户口岸造成极大的隔离压力。
For example, the recent outbreak of Europe and the United States, a large number of tourists returned to China, Beijing and Shanghai and other portals caused great isolation pressure.
严格说来，这些旅客明知入境就要隔离，似乎可以选择是否回国，也可以选择从何处入关。
Strictly speaking, these passengers, knowing that they will enter the country in isolation, seem to have the option of returning home or of choosing where to enter.
既然《传染病防治法》并未对这类人员的隔离费用作出规定，各地政府应当如何取舍呢？规定不明时，对流入人员收取隔离费用合理吗？表面看来，外来人员自愿流入，自行承担隔离费用，一则你情我愿，二则等价交换，应属天经地义之事。
Since the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases does not provide for the cost of isolation of such persons, how should local governments choose between them? Is it reasonable to charge isolation fees to incoming personnel when the regulations are unclear? On the face of it, it is only natural that outsiders voluntarily enter and bear the cost of isolation.
正是因此，一些高速路口就设有收费隔离公示牌，一是希望外来人员知难而退，二来也算明码实价诚信收费。
As a result, some high-speed junction on the cost of isolation placards, one is hoping that outsiders know difficult to retreat, and the other is also clear code of integrity charges.
更极端地说，低风险地区接纳高风险地区流入人员，没在隔离费用之外另行收费，似乎已是仁至义尽。
To put it more extreme, it seems humane for low-risk areas to accommodate the influx of people from high-risk areas without charging a fee in addition to the cost of isolation.
然而，公共政策并不仅仅是消费契约，在合同自由和等价交换原则之外，还必须考虑更多复杂因素。
However, public policy was not just a contract of consumption; more complex factors must be taken into account in addition to the principles of freedom of contract and exchange of value.
首先，流入地政府必须甄别外来人员是否真有选择的自由。
For starters, governments must screen outsiders for real freedom of choice.
比如在疫情爆发前去疫区出差的本地人员，或者被旅居国遣返的出国人员，多数人并没有选择是否返乡的自由。
For example, the majority of local staff on business in affected areas prior to the outbreak of the epidemic, or expatriates repatriated from their host countries, do not have the freedom to choose whether to return home.
要求他们付费隔离，要么使其流落街头，要么就是强买强卖，无论如何都触及文明社会的底线。
Requiring them to pay for isolation, either for living on the streets or for forced selling, in any case touches the bottom line of civilized society.
与此类似，当特定区域因为疫情发生严重人道灾难，面临紧迫危险的居民自行流出，也很难说得上是自由选择。
Similarly, when a particular region is affected by a severe humanitarian disaster and the population is in imminent danger, it is hardly a matter of free choice.
其次，流入地政府必须掂量收费隔离的间接成本。
Second, governments must weigh the indirect costs of fee-splitting.
一是不能因当地的些许得失影响抗疫大局，比如从疫区返回的抗疫人员，不管是火神山等工程建设者还是物资运输司机，严格说来确属自愿往来，当地进行收费隔离顶多是“不仗义”，但却可能影响到抗疫大局，应从全国层面予以禁止。
The first is that local gains and losses should not affect the overall situation of the epidemic, such as returning from epidemic areas, whether construction workers such as Mount Fire or material transport drivers, is strictly voluntary, local fee-splitting is at best "non-pardonable," but may affect the overall situation and should be banned at the national level.
二是要区分当前成本和长远收益，比如对疫区前来的务工人员免费隔离，既可争取到本地复工复产的关键劳动力，也可提升本地形象，长远看可能利大于弊。
Second, it is necessary to distinguish between current costs and long-term benefits, such as the free segregation of migrant workers coming to the affected areas, which will not only provide a key workforce for the resumption of work, but also enhance the local image, which may outweigh the disadvantages in the long run.
最后，只有在隔离措施全覆盖的前提下，才可以讨论对自愿流入人员收费隔离。
Finally, the separation of charges for voluntary influx should be discussed only if the isolation measure is fully covered.
如果隔离措施有漏洞，一些顾虑隔离费用的流入人员，难免会私下潜入而成为“漏网之鱼”。
If there are loopholes in the isolation measures, some people concerned about the inflow of fees, will inevitably sneak into the "leaking fish."
如此一来，不仅存在疫情扩散的风险，还造成“好人吃亏、坏人得利”的错误导向。
In this way, there is not only the risk of the spread of the epidemic, but also the wrong direction of "good people suffer and bad people profit."
如需收费，标准如何确定？如上所述，对于法律上没有明确的外来人员的隔离费用，在满足严格条件的前提下，地方政府要求一些被隔离人员自行负担，似乎也算合情合理。
Where fees are required, how are the criteria determined? As noted above, it would seem reasonable for local governments to require some segregated persons to bear their own costs, provided that strict conditions are met.
鉴于隔离措施本质上是一种行政强制行为，基于普遍的行政法治原则尤其是比例原则，隔离收费应当满足两个标准：一是隔离地点必须满足必要的质量标准，包括安全保障、饮食营养、活动空间、资讯传输和医疗支持等。
Given that seclusion is essentially an administrative coercive act, based on the general principles of the administrative rule of law, in particular the principle of proportionality, the fee for isolation should meet two criteria: first, the site must meet the necessary quality standards, including safety and security, dietary nutrition, mobility space, information transmission and medical support.
简而言之，隔离不是坐牢，隔离措施应当仅以控制潜在的疫情扩散为上限，不得不当降低被隔离人员的正常生活水平。
In short, isolation is not a prison sentence, and isolation measures should be limited to containing the potential spread of the disease and must reduce the standard of living of those who are isolated.
二是收费仅以覆盖成本为限，不宜“发疫情财”。
Second, the charge is limited to cover the cost only, not "epidemic wealth."
毕竟，考虑到“拒疫情于辖区之外”的动机和逐利天性，一些地方政府难免有高价收费的冲动。
After all, given the motivation and profit-seeking nature of the "epidemic outside their jurisdictions," some local governments are tempted to charge high prices.
但公权不应成为赚钱的工具，更不能沦为“敲竹棒”的打手，否则将是对其合法性的极大冲击。
But public power should not be a tool for making money, let alone a batter, or it will be a serious blow to its legitimacy.
简而言之，疫情期间的适度人员流动和强制隔离，于公于私都属必要。
In short, moderate mobility and forced isolation during the epidemic are necessary for both the public and private sectors.
对于隔离外来人员的收费问题，简单的判断标准应该是：非自愿选择者不收费、有功于大局者不收费、可能漏网者不收费、质次价高时不收费。
The simple criteria for judging fees for isolating outsiders should be: no fees for involuntary selections, no fees for meritorious service, no fees for possible leaks, and no fees for low quality and high prices.
唯有如此，才能在护卫抗疫大局的前提下，利用市场规则实现相对公平的社会效果。
Only in this way can we use the market rules to achieve a relatively fair social effect on the premise of defending the overall situation of the epidemic.
建议在“一盘棋”的思路下，以上述准则为参考，综合协调各地隔离收费政策，避免地方各自为政、以邻为壑甚至“把抗疫当生意”的乱象。
It is suggested that under the "one-game-a-game" mentality, the above-mentioned guidelines should be used as a reference to coordinate the policy of collecting fees in an integrated way to avoid local fragmentation, beggar-thy-neighbour and even "business-as-usual" disorder.
（作者为西南财经大学法学院副教授，编辑：朱弢）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Author: Associate Professor, School of Law, Southwest University of Finance and Economics, ed.) Click here to find out more about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
因疫情被强制隔离该不该收费？。
Should we charge for mandatory quarantine due to the outbreak?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "因疫情被强制隔离该不该收费？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "对于隔离外来人员的收费问题，简单的判断标准应该是：非自愿选择者不收费、有功于大局者不收费、可能漏网者不收费、质次价高时不收费";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
