健康码助战抗疫，个人信息会被滥用吗？。
Health code to combat the disease, personal information will be abused?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 姚佳莹。
Author Yao Jia Ying.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
依托全国一体化政务服务平台的数据共享支撑，电子健康凭证的推广和应用，考验政府数据治理能力。
Relying on the data sharing support of the national integrated government service platform, the promotion and application of electronic health voucher test the government data governance ability.
精准防疫的要求能否成为破除数字壁垒的契机？如何确保个人信息安全？各类疫情服务小程序，在疫情过后还会有用武之地吗？文|《财经》记者 姚佳莹 编辑 |朱弢“大家都在‘穗康’小程序抢口罩，我们恨不得自己跑得再快点。
Can the demands of accurate epidemic prevention be a chance to break down digital barriers? How can personal information security be ensured? Will small procedures for epidemic prevention still be useful after an epidemic?
”腾讯云一名产品经理说道。
A product manager at Tencent said.
仅口罩预约功能，腾讯团队便在两天内完成了预约流程、线下药店配合方案、用户通知等设计。
Only mask booking function, Tencent team in two days to complete the appointment process, online pharmacy cooperation plan, user notification and other design.
在1月31日，腾讯为广州市设计的官方疫情服务小程序“穗康”上线，原本开发周期需一周的小程序缩短为三天，提供疫情上报、口罩预约、在线问诊等功能。
On Jan. 31, Tencent took a week to shorten its development cycle to three days for the official Outbreak Service program designed by Guangzhou, offering such functions as reporting outbreaks, making mask appointments and consulting online.
在此次疫情防控中，类似的政务小程序并不少见，政府数字治理的技术配备加速发展。
In this epidemic prevention and control, similar small government procedures are not uncommon, the government digital governance technology equipment to accelerate the development.
健康码是此类疫情服务小程序的共有功能之一。
Health code is one of the common functions of this kind of epidemic service.
通过自主申报健康信息，民众可获取反映健康状况的健康码，并凭码通行社区、办公楼、交通口等核验场景。
Through the autonomous declaration of health information, the population has access to health codes that reflect the state of health and check scenes for communities, office buildings, traffic gates, etc.
在防疫初期，健康码有助于防止线下扎堆填报信息带来的病毒传染风险，一改政府人海战术排查病患的做法；随着疫情得到初步控制，健康码实现的人员行程追踪、同行密切接触人员自查等功能亦助力企业复工复产。
In the early stage of epidemic prevention, health codes can help prevent the risk of virus infection brought about by the downloading of information and change the government's practice of checking patients by sea and sea.
得益于微信11亿多月活用户这个“国民APP”优势，腾讯“防疫健康码”上线一个多月以来，目前已在北京、广东、四川、云南、天津等近20个省级行政区上线，覆盖广州、武汉、福州等300多个市县，累计亮码25亿人次，覆盖9亿人口，累计访问量超过80亿，是服务用户最多的健康码。
Thanks to the advantages of Weixin's more than 1.1 billion monthly live users, Tencent's health code for epidemic prevention has been put on line for more than a month in nearly 20 provinces, including Beijing, Guangdong, Sichuan, Yunnan and Tianjin, covering more than 300 cities and counties in Guangzhou, Wuhan and Fuzhou.
广东、四川、重庆等地的健康码已初步互通互认，民众只需进行一次健康状况认证，便可一码通行。
Guangdong, Sichuan, Chongqing and other places have been preliminary mutual recognition of health code, the public only need to conduct a health certificate, can be a yard.
尽管全国各省市健康码的互通互认在加速推进，但健康码全国统一的条件尚不成熟。
Although the mutual recognition of health codes in provinces and cities in China is accelerating, the conditions for the unification of health codes are not yet mature.
3月7日，国家卫健委人口家庭司司长杨文庄表示，由于不同省份的风险等级、响应级别和防控要求不同，各地健康码生成标准不一，健康码无法追踪申报人后续健康状况等原因，一码通行的环境条件尚不成熟。
On March 7, Yang Wenzhuang, director of the Population and Family Division of the National Health and Wellness Commission, said that due to the different risk levels, response levels and control requirements in different provinces, health code generation standards varied from place to place and health codes could not track the health status of filers.
依托全国一体化政务服务平台的数据共享支撑，以腾讯健康码为代表的电子健康凭证的推广和应用，实则考验的是政府数据治理能力。
Based on the data sharing support of the national integrated government service platform, the promotion and application of E-health credentials represented by Tencent health code will test the ability of government data governance.
精准防疫的要求能否成为破除数字壁垒的契机？大规模采集个人信息后，如何确保个人信息安全？各类疫情服务小程序，在疫情过后还会有用武之地吗？数据壁垒的打通为时尚早随着各地复工复产加速，跨区域人口流动为疫情防控带来新的挑战。
Can the requirements of accurate epidemic prevention be an opportunity to break down digital barriers? How to ensure personal information security after the large-scale collection of personal information? All kinds of epidemic services will be useful after the epidemic?
可以注意到，各地陆续通过劳务合作备忘录等形式，以健康码为基础，实现健康监测的互认机制。
It may be noted that, through the labor cooperation memorandum and other forms, health code-based mutual recognition of health monitoring mechanism.
3月11日，山东省发布文件，统一健康码标准，首先与京津冀等14省（市、区）实现互认；目前，广东、四川、重庆健康码实现初步互认，浙江、河南两省已实现互通互认，此外，京津冀健康码互认亦正加速推进中。
On March 11, Shandong Province issued documents to unify health code standards, beginning with mutual recognition with 14 provinces (cities and districts), including Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei; at present, Guangdong, Sichuan and Chongqing have achieved initial mutual recognition, Zhejiang and Henan provinces have achieved mutual recognition, and the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei health code recognition is accelerating.
健康码成为防疫期间用以身份确认和健康风险预警的标识，其实现的个人行程可追溯、密切接触人员信息查询等功能，涉及多层级政府，横跨不同归口部门，包括卫健、铁路、公安、政法等。
Health code is used to identify and early warning of health risks during epidemic prevention. The personal itinerary can be traced back to people in close contact. It involves multi-level government and cuts across different sectors, including health care, railways, public security, law and order, etc.
腾讯方面向《财经》记者表示，基于《全国一体化政务服务平台防疫健康信息码接口标准》，正在推动全国一体化政务服务平台“防疫健康信息码”与全国各地健康码的互信互认，“在疫情防控中，不同部门在各自的职责范围内所处的环节是不一样的，所以我们需要结合多方数据，进行数据融合和标准化”。
Tencent told Caijing that, based on the "National Integrated Government Service Platform Health Information Code Interface Standard," the integrated government affairs service platform "epidemic prevention health information code" and health codes across the country mutual recognition, "in the epidemic prevention and control, different departments in their respective areas of responsibility are different, so we need to integrate data fusion and standardization."
统一各层级政府和不同部门的数据标准，共享确诊、疑似病例、密切接触者、县域风险等级数据库，这是否意味着数据壁垒正逐步打通？“突发事件具有关联性，只有打破界限和壁垒，才能形成应对突发事件的联动机制。
Harmonization of data standards at all levels of government and in different sectors, sharing of diagnosis, suspected cases, close contacts, county-level risk-level databases, does this mean that data barriers are gradually opening up?
但以此一例并不意味着地区间、部门间的数据壁垒正逐步打通，体制、机制、利益问题等阻碍地区间、部门间信息资源共享的主要因素还未根本解决。
However, this example does not mean that data barriers between regions and departments are gradually opening up, and institutional, institutional and interest issues, which hinder the sharing of information resources between regions and departments, have not yet been fundamentally resolved.
在与疫情防控有关的工作之外，仍然不同程度地存在彼此分割和信息资源不共享的情形。
In addition to the work related to epidemic prevention and control, there are still varying degrees of fragmentation and non-sharing of information resources.
”暨南大学公共管理学院院长、广东省“数字政府”改革建设专家委员会委员蔡立辉向《财经》记者表示。
Cai Lihui, dean of Jinan University's School of Public Administration and a member of Guangdong's expert committee on digital government reform and construction, told Caijing.
由于部门分割、条块分割的碎片化机制，且地方间存在行政壁垒等现象，数据壁垒一直是政府数据化治理能力提升的一大阻碍，造成数据标准不一、开发利用程度不高等问题。
Due to sectional segmentation, fragmentation and administrative barriers, data barriers have been a major obstacle to the improvement of government data management capacity, resulting in inconsistent data standards and low degree of exploitation.
“数据打通共享，意味着所有公民对同一个数据拥有同等权限。
"Data sharing means that all citizens have equal rights to the same data.
因此，数据打通共享与权限和身份有关，与维护公民权利有关。
Data access sharing is therefore related to access and identity, as well as to the defence of civil rights.
要实现数据打通共享，需要解决四个层次的问题：一是统一数据标准，二是拥有实现数据共享的技术支撑；三是明确数据从采集、保存到使用的权利、义务和利益问题；四是体制机制问题。
There are four levels of data sharing that need to be addressed: harmonization of data standards; technical support for data sharing; clarification of rights, obligations and benefits of data collection, preservation and use; and institutional mechanisms.
”蔡立辉向《财经》记者分析道。
"Cai Lihui told Caijing News.
从应用到互通互认，健康码背靠的是算法和庞大的数据库。
From application to mutual recognition, health code is backed by algorithms and a large database.
在此次疫情中采集的个人信息将如何使用？如何确保个人信息安全？数据保护：明确政企权责健康码在填写申报过程中，包含了身份证号等太多个人信息，如何保证这些信息不被滥用，也是公众十分关心的问题。
How will the personal information collected during the outbreak be used? How to ensure personal information security? Data Protection: Clarify that the government and enterprises' health codes contain too much personal information, such as identity numbers, during the filing process, and how to ensure that such information is not misused is also a matter of great public concern.
政府层面，其实在数据收集、存储和使用方面做出了相应规定。
At the governmental level, the collection, storage and use of data are regulated accordingly.
以北京市“健康宝”为例，便实行的是信息采集最小化原则，仅采集身份证号和人脸，且24小时内所有数据都会删除、重置，24小时的存储实行国家信息安全三级保护。
In Beijing, for example, "Health Bao" is based on the principle of minimizing the collection of information. Only identity numbers and faces are collected, all data are deleted and replaced within 24 hours, and 24-hour storage is protected by the State Information Security Level 3.
北京安理律师事务所高级合伙人王新锐曾参与企业健康码开发的个人信息保护合规制定，他向《财经》记者表示，在合规制定的过程中，一个基本的问题是，应界定政府、企业双方的权利和义务。
Wang Xinrui, a senior partner at Anli Law Firm in Beijing, who worked on compliance with the protection of personal information for corporate health code development, told Caijing that a fundamental issue in the compliance process is to define the rights and obligations of both the government and the enterprise.
“为防止信息被滥用，政府和企业分别应做出怎样的承诺？在其中扮演的角色是什么？这些都应该界定清楚”。
"What are the commitments that governments and companies should make to prevent the misuse of information, and what is their role therein? These should be clearly defined."
根据欧盟于2018年生效的《通用数据保护条例》（GDPR），围绕数据共享和处理，将其中不同主体进行区分，一类是数据控制者，另一类是数据处理者。
Under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which entered into force in 2018, different subjects are distinguished around data sharing and processing, one being data controllers and the other data processors.
对外经济贸易大学数字经济与法律创新研究中心执行主任许可向《财经》记者表示，在此次防疫中，政府便是数据控制者，有数据收集目的，处理方法和保存期限的决定权；企业则是数据处理者，依从控制者的指令，采集、保存、处理数据等。
The government is the data controller in this epidemic, with data collection purposes, processing methods and retention periods, while the enterprise is the data processor, following the instructions of the controllers and collecting, preserving and processing data, the executive director of the Center for Digital Economy and Legal Innovation of the University of Foreign Economy and Trade told Caijing
根据《财经》记者了解，此次健康码其实整合了多渠道采集的个人健康数据，除了自主申报，还会纳入社区、医院、甚至政府部门等方面的数据。
According to Caijing, the health code actually integrates personal health data collected from multiple sources, including community, hospital and even government data, in addition to self-declaration.
那么在此次防疫中，政府部门多大程度上向企业共享了数据呢？“在此次防疫中，企业只扮演了技术服务的角色，主角还是政府，企业即便因此接触到政府数据，也只能在疫情防控的背景下使用。
So to what extent have government departments shared data with companies in the epidemic? "In this epidemic, companies played only a technical role, the main actor or the government, and even if they had access to government data, it could only be used in the context of disease control.
”王新锐告诉《财经》记者。
Wang Xinrui told Caijing.
许可表示，如果企业违反承诺，私下将数据留存或者用于其他目的，便需要承担相应的法律责任。
The license says companies will be held liable if they break their commitments to keep data privately or use it for other purposes.
“如果企业将私下数据留存，那么企业便变成了数据控制者，对于控制者来说，数据的处理和使用都应经过数据主体的同意，倘若企业不具备，就要承担违反个人信息保护规定的一系列责任。
"If an enterprise keeps private data, it becomes a data controller. For the controller, the processing and use of data should be subject to the consent of the data subject.
”许可向《财经》记者分析道。
'Permits an analysis to Caijing.
健康码的未来？可以注意到，在此次疫情中，很多地方政府基于防疫需要，迅速建立线上疫情服务平台，用以触达民众，快速采集健康信息。
The future of health codes? It may be noted that in this epidemic, many local governments have rapidly established online epidemic service platforms based on epidemic prevention needs to reach people and quickly collect health information.
“尽管一些地方政府此前已与我们有线上的政务服务合作，但总体上看，有30%到40%的地方政府基于疫情防控需求是首次使用微信小程序。
"Although some local governments have previously worked with our wired government services, overall 30 to 40 per cent of local governments are using microphone apps for the first time based on epidemic prevention and control needs."
”腾讯相关负责人表示。
Tencent officials said.
目前，腾讯还在持续政务疫情类小程序的开发过程中。
At present, Tencent is still in the process of developing a small program like government affairs epidemic.
据《财经》记者了解，以腾讯为例，开发一款疫情服务小程序需要至少30人的人力投入，而成本“不是几十万就能搞定”。
According to Caijing reporter, take Tencent as an example, to develop a small epidemic services program requires at least 30 people's manpower input, and the cost "not hundreds of thousands can be settled."
疫情过后，政府和企业投入巨大的线上疫情服务平台将会如何发展？应注意哪些问题？镇江市相关负责人表示，正在计划把疫情服务平台发展为镇江市民办理日常事务的一个入口。
After the outbreak, how will the government and enterprises invest in a huge online epidemic service platform? What issues should be noted? Zhenjiang City officials said that plans are under way to develop the epidemic service platform into an entry point for the citizens of Zhenjiang.
“例如进行房产交接预约、挂号、交通违章处理、企业申报、领取公积金等。
"For example, to make real estate transfer appointment, registration, traffic violations, enterprise declaration, provident fund, etc.
而且在此次防疫的使用过程中，大部分市民对微信小程序有使用经验，后面丰富功能，就不会遇到我们前期遇到的很多问题。
And in the course of this epidemic prevention, most of the public to micro-small procedures have experience, after the rich function, we will not encounter many problems encountered in the early stage.
”可以注意到，现实中不乏因健康码评估漏洞给民众带来不便的问题。
It may be noted that there are real problems with poor health-code assessments that have inconvenienced people.
3月11日，一名湖北武汉的新冠肺炎治愈出院患者由于健康码仍显示红码，在登机前，即使出示出院文件、核酸检验报告、解除隔离证明，得到的仍是工作人员“什么文件都没用，我们只认健康码”的回复。
A patient discharged from the hospital in Wuhan, Hubei Province on March 11 was given a reply saying "nothing but health code" before boarding the plane, even after showing discharge documents, nucleic acid test reports and release of isolation certificates.
王新锐表示，此次由于防疫紧急，健康码匆忙上线，出现各种漏洞可以理解，但随着疫情逐步得到控制，应注意避免各种不合理规则内嵌入这类产品中。
Wang Xinrui said that because of the urgent epidemic prevention, health code rushed to the line, there are various loopholes understandable, but as the epidemic gradually under control, care should be taken to avoid various unreasonable rules embedded in such products.
“比如红码绿码黄码，一定要能解释到底是什么机制，哪些因素会影响评估，避免把很多不合理的‘一刀切’做法内嵌入算法，由人做判断尚可以商榷，但我们没办法质问机器。
"For example, red code green code yellow code, must be able to explain what exactly is the mechanism, which factors will affect the assessment, to avoid many unreasonable 'one-size-fits-all' practices embedded in the algorithm, the human judgment is debatable, but we cannot question the machine.
”王新锐向《财经》记者表示。
Mr Wang told Caijing.
腾讯方面亦表示：“企业主要还是服务政府需求。
Tencent also said: "The main business or service government demand.
据我们了解，一些城市会考虑，疫情结束后，我们希望这个平台能结合政府、企业、民众的需求，在未来城市建设中发挥价值。
We understand that some cities will consider that after the epidemic is over, we hope that this platform can integrate the needs of the government, enterprises and people and play a valuable role in future urban construction.
”对于疫情服务平台今后的使用，王新锐表示，涉及人的基本权利的问题，若无非常严谨的评估，应注意避免让算法做判断。
Regarding the future use of epidemic service platforms, Wang Xinrui said that in the absence of a very rigorous assessment of fundamental human rights issues, care should be taken not to allow algorithms to make judgments.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
健康码助战抗疫，个人信息会被滥用吗？。
Health code to combat the disease, personal information will be abused?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "健康码助战抗疫，个人信息会被滥用吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Health Code Aids & amp; Anti-epidemic, is personal information misused? & quot;
var msg_desc = "依托全国一体化政务服务平台的数据共享支撑，电子健康凭证的推广和应用，考验政府数据治理能力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; relies on data-sharing support from the National Integrated Government Service Platform to promote and apply electronic health credentials, testing government data-governance capabilities.
精准防疫的要求能否成为破除数字壁垒的契机？如何确保个人信息安全？各类疫情服务小程序，在疫情过后还会有用武之地吗？";。
Can the demands of precision epidemic prevention be an opportunity to break down digital barriers? How can personal information security be ensured? Will small procedures for epidemic services be used in the aftermath of an epidemic?
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
