从英国抢票回国有多难？。
How hard is it to get a ticket home from England?
从英国抢票回国有多难？。
How hard is it to get a ticket home from England?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 出行一客。
The following article comes from a trip.
Author 施智梁团队。
Author Team.
出行一客。
Take a trip.
《财经》杂志交通工业组创建，专注于交通出行领域新闻。
The Transport Industry Section of Caijing Magazine was founded to focus on news in the field of transport travel.
在这里，我们将带你联结出行、科技与未来。
Here, we will connect you with travel, technology and the future.
。
.
欧洲疫情不断扩散，英国确诊病例迅速增加，由于部分航班取消，在英留学生想马上回国并不容易文丨《财经》记者 陈亮 王静仪编辑丨施智梁英国疫情蔓延近日明显加速。
The spread of the epidemic in Europe has seen a rapid increase in confirmed cases in the UK, where the spread of the disease has accelerated dramatically in recent days as foreign students in the UK want to return home immediately due to the cancellation of some flights.
截至3月15日，英国新冠肺炎确诊病例数已达1372例，与前一天公布的数字相比增加232例；单日新增死亡病例14例，为有疫情以来增幅最大，累计死亡病例达35例。
As of March 15, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in the UK had risen to 1,372, 232 more than the previous day's figure, and 14 new deaths a day, the largest increase since the outbreak, with a cumulative total of 35 deaths.
面对英国政府推行的应对疫情相关政策，部分在英留学生陷入恐慌，立即准备返回中国，但很快他们就发现，回国的道路并不那么畅通。
Some British students were in a panic and were ready to return to China in the face of the British government's policy of fighting the epidemic, but soon found their way home was not so clear.
近日国际机票价格飞涨，一张从伦敦到上海的机票从5000元飙升到了3万多元。
The price of international airline tickets has skyrocketed from 5,000 yuan to more than 30,000 yuan for a flight from London to Shanghai.
飞涨的价格也挡不住回国的迫切需求。
Soaring prices cannot stave off the urgent need to return home.
3月份伦敦至北京和上海的直飞机票已经全部售罄。
Direct flights from London to Beijing and Shanghai in March have been sold out.
《财经》记者获悉，东方航空每天一班的伦敦至上海航线客座率达105%，3月23日、24日、26日、27日伦敦盖特威克至上海客座率达102%，全部处于超售状态。
According to Caijing, China Eastern Airlines daily flight from London to Shanghai passenger rate of 105%, March 23, 24, 26, 27 London Gatewick to Shanghai visitors rate of 102%, all in the state of oversold.
近期有航空公司还取消了部分航班，让英国留学生回国之路更加艰难。
Some airlines recently canceled some flights, making it harder for British students to return home.
3月16日从伦敦飞往北京的两班航班已被取消，国航相关人士向《财经》记者证实，确实取消了一些航班。
The two flights from London to Beijing on March 16 were canceled, and Air China sources confirmed to Caijing that some flights had indeed been cancelled.
挣扎抢票“一觉醒来我就开始抢票了。
Struggle for a ticket "I woke up and started snatching tickets.
”在伦敦政治经济学院读研的张叶告诉《财经》记者。
Zhang Ye, a graduate student at the London School of Economics, told Caijing.
英国当地时间3月12日，张叶收到学校邮件，所有课程都变成网上授课，就连毕业考试也转移到了线上。
On March 12, Zhang received an e-mail from her school, and all the courses were made available online, even for her graduation exam.
得知这个消息后，张叶身边的中国同学都开始买起了机票，宿舍也退了。
After learning this news, Zhang Ye around the Chinese students began to buy tickets, dormitory also returned.
原计划在英国实习的张叶当时还决定留守英国。
Mr Zhang, who was planning an internship in Britain, decided to stay in the UK.
3月13日清晨，张叶看到英国相关防疫政策后陷入恐慌。
In the early morning of March 13, Zhang Ye saw the relevant UK vaccination policy after the panic.
既怕在英国感染，又怕自己在10平米房间内蜗居数月得抑郁症，加上国内父母的催促，张叶决定买票回国。
Fear of infection in Britain and fear of spending months in a 10-square-metre room suffering from depression, plus the urging of domestic parents, Zhang Ye decided to buy tickets home.
虽然父母让张叶不要考虑票价，但看着3月中下旬1万5到3万人民币的机票，张叶还是下不去手。
Although his parents told Zhang Ye not to consider the ticket price, but looked at the middle and second half of March 15,000 to 30,000 yuan tickets, Zhang Ye still can not go down.
张叶看中了一张4月往返机票，价格在6000元人民币。
Zhang Ye saw a return air ticket for April. The price is 6000 yuan.
就在犹豫要不要返回英国之时，一个小时内上述往返机票价格从6000元人民币涨至8000元人民币。
The price of the round-trip tickets rose from Rmb6,000 to Rmb8,000 within an hour of hesitating whether to return to Britain.
最终张叶选择了一张4月初从伦敦回上海的单程机票，售价5000元人民币。
Zhang eventually opted for a one-way ticket to Shanghai from London in early April for RMB5,000.
3天后，4月10日前所有伦敦到上海的机票都售罄了。
Three days later, all London-Shanghai tickets sold out before April 10.
庆幸的感觉还没温存多久，国内航司取消航班的消息在留学生群内炸锅。
Fortunately, the feeling is not long, the Department of Internal Aviation canceled flights in the group of foreign students fry.
中国国航app上显示，3月16日一共有三班从伦敦希斯罗机场飞往北京首都机场的航班，其中原计划于当地时间12：05和17：40起飞的两班已被取消，只剩下20：25起飞的CA938，CA938的前序航班已从北京首都机场起飞。
According to Air China, there were three flights from Heathrow Airport to Beijing Capital Airport on March 16, with two flights scheduled to depart at 12: 05 and 17: 40 local time cancelled, leaving CA938, CA938 scheduled to take off at 20: 25 local time.
除上述航班外，3月18日CA856、3月21日CA848等伦敦前往北京的航班也被取消了。
In addition to the flights mentioned above, flights from London to Beijing, such as CA856 on March 18 and CA848 on March 21, were cancelled.
3月17日至3月19日从伦敦到北京的航班基本从每天三班减少到每天一班。
From March 17 to March 19, the number of flights from London to Beijing was reduced from three to one a day.
作为代表国家的载旗航空公司，国航需要承担两国之间不断航的任务，这意味着即使遇到紧急情况，国航也将保留中英航线的至少一班航班。
Air China, as the flag carrier representing the country, is required to undertake continuous flights between the two countries, which means Air China will retain at least one flight on the China-UK route even in an emergency.
可以参考的是，此前由于疫情原因，美国禁止过去14天内到过中国的非美国公民进入美国境内，多家美国航空公司暂停了中美航班，但国航承担起两国不停航的任务，实现每天一班航班飞往美国。
It may be recalled that the United States had previously prohibited non-United States citizens who had visited China in the past 14 days from entering United States territory because of the outbreak, and that a number of United States airlines had suspended flights between the United States and the United States, but Air China undertook a non-stop flight to the United States.
话虽如此，但留学生们仍担心后续其他公司是否会把航班取消掉。
That said, international students are worried about whether other companies will cancel flights in the future.
入境后需隔离如果能踏上回国的飞机，那只是留学生万里长征第一步。
If you can set foot on a return flight, it's only the first step in a long journey for international students.
后续还有入境关要过。
And then there's the immigration clearance.
中国民用航空局飞行标准司司长朱涛介绍，民航局对航班疫情风险进行综合评分，划分为高中低三个等级，根据不同等级采取不同的防控措施：对于低风险的航班，主要保障人流物流的畅通，根据需要进行体温检测，机组佩戴一般的医用口罩。
Zhu Tao, director of the Civil Aviation Administration's aviation standards department, said the civil aviation authority rated the risk of flight outbreaks as three grades lower, taking different measures to prevent and control the disease according to different levels.
中风险航班，合理安排客舱布局，减少人员流动，同时航程过程中对旅客进行体温检测，机组使用医用外科口罩。
Medium-risk flights, reasonable arrangement of cabin layout, reduce the movement of people, while passengers during the voyage temperature testing, the use of medical surgical masks unit.
高风险航班，尽可能的减少机上服务流程，对旅客进行分区管理，安排旅客分散就座。
High-risk flights, as far as possible to reduce the flow of in-flight services, passengers for district management, arrangements for scattered seats.
在涉及国际（地区）疫情重点航线上，航空公司进一步加强了航班疫情防控措施。
In the international (regional) epidemic of the key routes, airlines have further strengthened the measures for the prevention and control of the epidemic.
东方航空的国际回程航班将在机舱门口测量每一位旅客的体温，对体温超过标准的旅客进行重点监控。
China Eastern's international return flight will measure the body temperature of every passenger at the cabin door and will focus on passengers whose body temperature is above standard.
地面及空中服务部门将按照当地卫生部门和机场的防疫要求，落实好旅客体温检测和信息申报。
The ground and air services departments will carry out temperature checks and declarations of passengers in accordance with the requirements of local health authorities and airports for epidemic prevention.
一旦航班中发现疑似病例或发热旅客，机组在航班落地前半小时依据目的地口岸要求和现有流程通知目的地机场海关；航班中设立后客舱最后三排右侧座位作为航空器隔离点，尽可能将疑似或发热旅客安置在右侧靠窗位置，航班中发现疑似病例或发热旅客要简化服务程序，安排专门乘务员穿戴防护用品为疑似或发热旅客服务。
Once a suspected case or hot passenger is found on the flight, the unit notifies the destination airport customs half an hour prior to the arrival of the flight according to destination port requirements and existing procedures. The last three rows of the rear passenger cabin are used as aircraft isolation points.
到达国内机场后，重点国际（地区）旅客将要面临入境关。
Upon arrival at the domestic airport, key international (regional) travellers will face immigration clearance.
中国另一大门户机场浦东国际机场，则将重点旅客转运流程前移到了停机坪上。
Pudong International Airport, another major gateway to China, moved key passenger transfer procedures to the tarmac.
重点国家（地区）航班落地停靠相对固定机位或廊桥后，上海海关实施登临检疫、体温筛查、信息查验等入境检疫流程，发现发热或疑似新冠肺炎旅客后，由机场通知现场等待的120救护车直接从机坪转运至属地指定医疗机构就诊。
After landing at a relatively fixed seat or corridor bridge, the Shanghai Customs Department carries out quarantine procedures such as boarding and quarantine, temperature screening and information checking, and notifies passengers with fever or suspected New Crown Pneumonia that the 120 ambulances waiting at the airport will be transferred directly from the airport to designated medical institutions in the territory.
无症状旅客经入境检疫后，海关和边检部门针对来源地依据检疫、筛查标准，逐一对每一位旅客对标检查，按分类在旅客所持护照上粘贴红黄绿三种颜色标签。
After an asymptomatic passenger is quarantined, the customs and frontier inspection authorities examine each passenger on a case-by-case basis according to the quarantine and screening criteria, and affix red, yellow and green labels to the passports of the passengers according to categories.
红黄颜色标签旅客一律隔离，机场会同航空公司、上海16个区驻在机场工作人员、邻省驻在机场工作人员，将上述旅客分别送到集中隔离点、居家隔离中转点；对途径上海的空铁中转旅客，机场方面提供短驳运送，由现场工作人员及时通知航空公司、火车站，派车派人将不同目的地、不同中转方式的旅客送交到值机点、火车站，做到面对面交接、封闭式管理。
Airport and airline companies, airport staff stationed in 16 districts of Shanghai, and airport staff stationed in neighbouring provinces will deliver the above-mentioned passengers to centralized and isolated transit points. Short barges will be provided for passengers transiting through Shanghai.
护照贴有“绿标”的旅客引导至放行通道。
Passengers with "green signs" on their passports are directed to the passage.
北京则采取了首都机场从3月10日起正式启用3号航站楼D区作为集中接受疫情严重国家和地区进港航班的处置专区，分区分类、精准实施旅客和行李的集中转运。
Beijing has adopted the Capital Airport since March 10, the official opening of Terminal 3, Area D, as a centralized reception area for flights from countries and regions with severe epidemics, the classification of zones, and the precise implementation of centralized transfer of passengers and luggage.
D区建筑面积约为10万平米，位于C区和E区中间，从空间上实现了与其他航班旅客隔离，最大限度防止机场内混流导致的交叉传染。
Area D, with an area of approximately 100,000 square metres, is located between Area C and Area E and is spatially isolated from passengers on other flights to minimize cross-contamination resulting from mixing within the airport.
当疫情严重国家和地区的航班进港后，首都机场统一安排航班停放在专属停机位，所有机上旅客经由海关进行测温等检疫排查，边检办理入境手续，非中转旅客在专属休息区等候摆渡车前往新国展旅客接驳区；中转旅客在办理完中转手续后，再前往专属休息区候机。
When flights from severely affected countries and regions arrive, the Capital Airport will arrange for flights to be parked at private stands. All passengers on board will undergo quarantine checks such as temperature measurement by the customs, border controls will be checked and non-stop passengers will be waiting in the exclusive lounge area for ferry services to the new exhibition area.
对于入境过程中发现的体温异常旅客，首都机场也设置了专门的转运程序和路线，以避免与其他旅客发生接触。
Special transfer procedures and routes are also in place at the Capital Airport for passengers with abnormal body temperature found during the entry process to avoid contact with other passengers.
3月16日，北京市所有境外进京人员，均转送至集中观察点进行14天的隔离观察，集中隔离观察期间，隔离人员费用需自理。
On March 16, all foreign visitors to Beijing were transferred to a centralized observation point for a 14-day period of quarantine observation.
（应受访者要求，张叶为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(At the request of the interviewee, Zhang Ye is a pseudonym) Click on the picture to see more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从英国抢票回国有多难？。
How hard is it to get a ticket home from England?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "从英国抢票回国有多难？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How difficult was it to get a ticket home from Britain?;
var msg_desc = "欧洲疫情不断扩散，英国确诊病例迅速增加，由于部分航班取消，在英留学生想马上回国并不容易";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
