湖北上市公司的复工焦虑：有的停不得，有的赔不起。
Hubei listed companies back to work anxiety: some can not stop, some can not afford to pay.
张建锋 等。
Zhang Jianfeng etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
2019年上半年占据湖北省GDP约五分之一的112家省内上市公司，目前复工情况各异。
The 112 listed companies, which accounted for about one-fifth of Hubei province's GDP in the first half of 2019, are now operating differently.
部分公司影响不大，但也有企业收入面临较大下滑风险文丨《财经》记者 张建锋 王颖 张欣培 刘以秦编辑丨陆玲3月16日，《财经》记者在嘉必优（688089.SH）现场看到，工厂已经开工，有员工进出。
Some companies have little influence, but there are also companies that are exposed to significant downside risks to corporate income. Journalist Zhang Jianfeng Wang, Zhang Xinpei, editor of the Qin Dynasty, and the Caijing reporter saw at the scene of Jiabiyou (688089.SH) on March 16 that the factory had been opened and employees were entering and leaving it.
“我3月9日来上班，所在部门有一半的员工到岗。
"I came to work on March 9th and half the staff in my department were there.
”公司一位发酵产线的员工告诉《财经》记者。
An employee of the company's fermentation line told Caijing.
嘉必优上述场景，是湖北宣布复工以来部分企业复产的缩影。
Jiabiyou above scenes, Hubei announced the resumption of some enterprises since the microcosm.
随着全国新冠肺炎疫情得到有效控制，浙江等地在2月份就开始有序推进复工复产。
With the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia under effective control, Zhejiang and other places began to promote orderly resumption of production in February.
作为疫情重灾区，湖北省每日新增新冠肺炎确诊病例逐步下滑至3月15日的4例，取得阶段性成果。
As a seriously affected area, the number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei province declined gradually to 4 cases on March 15.
此前几天，湖北已拉开复工序幕。
A few days earlier, Hubei has started the prelude to work.
3月10日习近平赴湖北省武汉市考察疫情防控工作时指出，在加强防控的前提下，采取差异化策略，适时启动分区分级、分类分时、有条件的复工复产。
On March 10, Xi Jinping visited Wuhan City, Hubei Province, to study the epidemic prevention and control work. Under the premise of strengthening prevention and control, he adopted a strategy of differentiation, starting zoning, classifying, and conditionally resuming work.
次日，湖北省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控指挥部下发通告（简称“通告”）：全省以县域为单位，划分低、中、高风险区，实施分区分级差异化防控，企业分类分时有条件复工复产。
The following day, the Hubei Province New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Command issued a notice ("Notice"): the province as a unit of counties, divided into low, medium and high-risk areas, the implementation of district-level differentiation prevention and control, the classification of enterprises conditional resumption of work.
“在中风险、低风险地区人员：凭健康码绿码，省内安全有序流动；省内客运航班、旅客列车等交通逐步有序恢复。
"Medium-risk, low-risk area personnel: with health code green code, the safe and orderly flow of the province; passenger flights, passenger trains and other traffic in the province gradually and orderly recovery.
”目前，湖北企业复工情况如何？《财经》记者采访发现，2019年上半年占据湖北省GDP约五分之一的112家省内上市公司，目前复工情况各异。
In an interview with Caijing, the 112 provincial listed companies that accounted for about one-fifth of Hubei province's GDP in the first half of 2019 have resumed work in a variety of ways.
部分保障疫情防控、重大民生、农业物资企业在疫情期间正常运行。
Partial guarantee epidemic prevention and control, vital people's livelihood, agricultural materials enterprises in the epidemic period normal operation.
“公司属于重点化工企业，一些设备停产后重启成本很高，部分设备停产后就报废了，不能停产。
"The company is a key chemical industry, some equipment shutdown restart costs are very high, some of the equipment shut down after scrapping, can not stop production.
”地处湖北省宜昌市的兴发集团（600141.SH）对《财经》记者表示，春节期间，草甘膦、磷铵等农业物资生产一直在运行。
The production of agricultural materials, such as glyphosate and ammonium phosphate, has been running during the Spring Festival, Hubei province's Hing Fat Group (600141.SH) told Caijing.
与兴发集团同处在“停不得”名单中的企业，还有奥美医疗（002950.SZ）、中百集团（000759.SZ）等。
Among the companies on the "no stop" list are Ogilvy & amp; Maison (002950.SZ) and Centennial Group (000759. SZ).
在湖北疫情得到有效控制后，部分属于重点产业链配套企业，承担国家、省市重大工程和重点项目的企业先批复产复工。
After the epidemic situation in Hubei Province was effectively controlled, some key industrial chain supporting enterprises, enterprises undertaking major projects and key projects at the national, provincial and municipal levels were granted permission to resume production.
作为湖北地区三大支柱产业之一，汽车行业已率先复产，十堰东风卡车日产能已达200多台。
As one of the three pillar industries in Hubei area, the automobile industry has taken the lead in resuming production.
地处湖北潜江的永安药业（002365.SZ），是当地复工重点关注对象，其复工复产申请于3月6日晚间获批。
The Yongan Pharmaceutical Company (002365.SZ), located in the Hubei submerged river, was the focus of local rework and its application was approved on the night of March 6.
“交通封锁已经解除，本地员工基本已到岗。
"The traffic blockade has been lifted and local staff are almost at their posts.
”公司一位人士告诉《财经》记者，生产问题解决了，别的都好说。
A person at Caijing told Caijing that the production problem had been solved and everything else was easy to say.
相对于湖北其他地区，疫情中心的武汉，对复工复产管理仍较严格，除重点公司外，其他企业先按不早于3月20日24时前复工复产。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic situation, remains relatively strict about the resumption of production, except for key companies, which first resumed work before 2400 hours before March 20.
据《财经》记者了解，房地产等行业尚不在武汉复工名单中。
According to "Caijing" reporter understands, real estate and other industries have not been in Wuhan reinstated list.
“我们现在不在复工名单中，线下卖房业务没法开展，公司没有新增收入。
"We're not on the rework list right now, the offline sales are not going to go ahead and the company has no new revenue.
”武汉一家房地产工作人员对《财经》记者无奈表示，财务总监急得跳脚。
Wuhan real estate staff told Caijing reporter helplessly that the financial director jumped.
因银行业务无法办理，亦有房地产公司暂停发放员工工资。
Some real estate companies have suspended staff salaries because the banking business cannot be carried out.
目前，通往湖北省内航班、高铁、客运等交通动脉尚未恢复，省外人员无法返岗仍是当地企业复工面临的主要难题。
At present, the transportation arteries to Hubei Province, such as flights, high-speed rail and passenger transport have not been restored.
作为截止3月14日湖北省唯一仍处于高风险区的武汉，仍未解封，交通问题表现尤为明显。
Wuhan, the only high-risk area in Hubei province as of March 14, remains unsealed, with traffic problems particularly acute.
《财经》记者采访发现，此轮疫情对湖北上市公司一季度业绩影响不一。
"Caijing" reporters found that the round of the epidemic on Hubei listed companies in the first quarter results vary.
部分公司影响不大，但也有企业收入面临较大下滑风险。
Some companies have little impact, but there are also large downside risks to corporate income.
分级分类有序推进在湖北省发布复工复产通告后，位于疫情中心区的湖北上市公司，目前复工情况如何？《财经》记者采访多家湖北上市公司发现，部分涉及重点民生、重要行业公司，在疫情期间并未停止运营。
After the announcement of the resumption of work in Hubei province, how are the listed companies in Hubei province now working again? Caijing reporter interviewed a number of listed companies in Hubei Province and found that some of them involved key people's livelihood and important trade companies and did not stop operating during the epidemic period.
身处暴风眼中的武汉，农贸市场全部停业，商超自然成为了蔬菜供应的主渠道。
In the eye of the storm Wuhan, the farmers' market closed down, business supernatural become the main vegetable supply channels.
武汉国资旗下的中百集团（000759.SZ），作为一线保供的商超企业，守护着武汉市民的“菜篮子”。
Wuhan state-owned 100 Group (000759. SZ), as the first-line guarantee of the commercial super-enterprises, the protection of Wuhan city's "basket of vegetables."
中百集团相关负责人告诉《财经》记者，公司基本没有停工，人员在岗率90%以上。
The relevant head of the Group told Caijing that the company basically did not stop work, staff in the job rate of more than 90%.
自1月23日武汉封城以来，除了关闭百货商店，部分仓储超市、便民超市门店保持正常营业。
Since the city was closed on January 23, Wuhan, in addition to the closure of department stores, some storage supermarkets, convenient supermarket stores keep normal business.
《财经》记者了解，中百超市目前营业只到下午5点，而且个人消费者无法进入，超市只接受社区团购。
According to Caijing, the supermarket is only open until 5pm, and individual consumers can not access the supermarket only accept community purchase.
与中百集团业务在疫情期间同样未停摆的公司，还有武汉本地医药流通企业九州通（600998.SH）。
With the Group of 100 business in the same period of the epidemic did not stop the company, there is Wuhan local pharmaceutical distribution enterprises Jiuzhou Tong (600998.SH).
按照防疫指挥部下达的指令，公司1月21日晚即召开紧急会议，组织部分员工返岗，进行防疫物资的采购、储存及配送等相关工作。
In accordance with the instructions given by the anti-epidemic command, the company called an emergency meeting on the evening of January 21 to organize the return of some employees to work on the procurement, storage and distribution of epidemic prevention materials.
“我们从年前忙到现在。
"We've been busy since the year before.
除夕夜都是吃的盒饭，集团有上千人都这样。
On New Year's Eve, there are thousands of people in the group.
”公司证券部刘志峰向《财经》记者透露，即使是后台支持部门，也要上一线理货、发货。
Liu Zhifeng, the company's securities department, told Caijing that even back-office support departments had to work on first-line tally and deliver goods.
生产疫情物质大型红外测温仪器的华中数控（300161.SZ），1月21日起，就接到大量来自各地政府部门的订单，但因为春节前，公司库存现货有约100台，很难满足突然爆发的防疫需求。
The central China CNC (300161.SZ), which produces large-scale infrared thermometers for epidemic substances, has received a large number of orders from local government departments since January 21, but because the company had about 100 units in stock before the Spring Festival holiday, it was difficult to meet sudden outbreaks of epidemic demand.
“为了尽快能够供应物资，公司董事长陈吉红在朋友圈发布求助信息，冠捷科技和一家芯片公司，临时撬开仓库，将物料加急送到武汉。
"In order to get supplies as quickly as possible, Chen Jihong, the company's chairman, posted help messages in a circle of friends. GuanJi Technology and a chip company temporarily broke open the warehouse and rushed materials to Wuhan.
”华中数控副总裁李社林告诉《财经》记者。
Li Sulin, vice president of CNC in central China, told Caijing.
记者了解到，楚天高速（600035.SH）及两家国内一线显示面板企业，天马微电子、华星光电在武汉的工厂亦未停工。
The reporter learned that the Chu Tian high speed (600035.SH) and two domestic first-line display panel enterprises, Tianma micro-electronics, Huaxing photoelectricity factory in Wuhan has not stopped.
春节后，支援湖北疫情保障、农业物资企业率先复工复产。
After the Spring Festival, support Hubei epidemic protection, agricultural materials enterprises to resume production first.
生产应用于工程板房建设结构密封胶的回天新材（300041.SZ），因援助武汉火神山、雷神山医院建设，2月6日率先开了两条生产线，4日后四地全线复产，目前湖北开工率接近80%，上海、广东和常州三个基地，开工率接近90%。
Production of new materials (300041.SZ) for the construction of structural sealant in engineering slab houses, started two production lines on Feb. 6 to assist the construction of Wuhan Huangshen Mountain and Lei Shenshan Hospital.
“襄阳政府也鼓励我们提早开工。
The Xiangyang government is also encouraging us to start early.
我们有一部分产品是替代进口的，供货给华为、宁德时代、中国中车，考虑国家战略利益和上下游产业链，地方政府允许在做好防护的前提下，尽快复工复产。
Some of our products have been imported in place of imported ones, supplied to Huawei, Ningde era and ChinaChina.The local governments are allowed to resume work as soon as possible, taking into account the national strategic interests and the upstream-downstream industrial chain.
”回天新材董秘章宏建告诉《财经》记者。
Zhang Hongjian, secretary-general of China Daily, told Caijing.
为保障春耕农业物资供应，主业为磷复肥、新型肥料的新洋丰（000902.SZ）也是湖北省内较早复工的一员。
Xinyang Fengfeng (000902.SZ), a new type of fertilizer, was one of the early workers in Hubei province to ensure the supply of agricultural materials for spring plowing.
在疫情期间停产的三个湖北生产基地，经当地批准全面复产。
The three Hubei production bases, which were shut down during the epidemic period, were fully reactivated with local approval.
作为农业物资磷肥重要生产基地，湖北省磷肥产量占全国30%以上。
As an important production base of agricultural materials phosphate fertilizer Hubei Province accounted for over 30% of the national phosphate fertilizer production.
进入3月份，随着湖北疫情好转，对全国和全球产业链配套有重大影响企业，承担重点项目企业的复工申请开始获批。
In March, with the improvement of the epidemic in Hubei Province, enterprises with significant impact on the national and global industrial chains began to receive approval to resume work for enterprises undertaking key projects.
位居三大支柱产业之首的汽车产业，复工意义尤为重大。
The resumption of work is particularly significant in the automotive industry, which ranks at the top of the three pillars.
总部位于武汉的东风汽车集团，在十堰、襄阳均设有生产基地。
Wuhan-based Dongfeng Automobile Group, in Shiyan, Xiangyang have production bases.
东风汽车集团相关人士告诉《财经》记者，公司武汉两家整车厂近日被批准复工。
Dongfeng Motor Group related sources told Caijing, the company Wuhan two whole car factories were recently approved to resume work.
和武汉相比，十堰和襄阳的整车厂复工压力较小，各项准备工作也在紧锣密鼓进行中。
Compared with Wuhan, Shiyan and Xiangyang of the whole plant back to work less pressure, the preparations are also in the intensive work.
3月6日—8日，公司安排104台车把分布于房县等地的1600余名员工接回十堰城区，为复工复产做准备。
From March 6 to 8, the company arranged 104 vehicles to bring back 1600 employees from Fangxian and other places back to Shiyan city to prepare for the resumption of work.
良品铺子（603719.SH），目前大部分武汉门店均已经开门营业，但不接受顾客进店消费，主要订单来自线上外卖平台和社区团购。
Most Wuhan stores (603719.SH) are now open for business, but customers are not allowed to buy them. The main orders come from online take-out platforms and community groups.
一位良品铺子店员告诉《财经》记者，武汉的主要门店都是在3月之后才开门营业，还有部分门店没有开门，营业时间是上午10点到下午5点。
"Wuhan's main stores are not open until after March, and some shops are open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.," a good goods shop clerk told Caijing.
《财经》记者注意到，湖北部分非急需复工企业，目前只有少许业务复产。
"Caijing" reporter noted that Hubei part of the urgent need to resume industrial enterprises, only a small number of business resumption.
主业为痔疮膏等药品的马应龙（600993.SH），生产制造方面，只有防疫物资的部分生产线复工，如中药、消毒产品等，多数是来料加工。
Ma Yinglong (600993.SH), whose main business is hemorrhoids and other medicines, only part of the production line for epidemic prevention materials, such as traditional Chinese medicine, disinfection products, etc. are returned to work, most of which are processing raw materials.
“全面复工时间还在等政府通知。
"Full resumption of work is still pending notification by the Government.
”公司一位人士表示。
A person at the company said.
急盼复工批准相对于上述重点企业复产，更多的湖北上市公司尚未复工。
It is hoped that more listed companies in Hubei Province will resume work than those listed above.
“我们现在的策略只是线上办公，客户可以通过线上交纳1000元预定金锁定房源，等复工后带客户去现场看样板房。
"Our current strategy is just online office, customers can pay 1000 yuan in advance to lock the source of housing, after the resumption of work to take customers to the scene to see the sample room.
”在武汉房地产公司南国置业（002305.SZ）做销售工作的李明（化名）对《财经》记者表示，项目预计3月底能复工，正式复工约4月15号。
Li Ming (not his real name), who works in sales at Wuhan real estate company Nan Guo.SZ, told Caijing that the project is expected to resume work by the end of March and resume work about April 15.
李明所在项目，为南国置业在武汉市阳逻经济开发区开发的洺悦华府，该项目为高层+洋房住宅。
Li Ming's project is a high-rise and foreign-owned house developed by Nan Guoying in Wuhan's Yang Lo Economic Development Zone.
“疫情前项目每天接待的客户有一两百组，交定金的客户占比约百分之七八十，现在的线上销售两周只有约12个客户缴纳预定金。
"The pre-epidemic project receives one to two hundred customers a day, with about 80 percent of clients paying a down payment, and only about 12 customers on-line now pay a down payment for two weeks.
”李明表示，“因为线上缴纳预定金后，无法带客户办理相关手续，所以就没有新的提成，目前只能拿基本工资，但我们的收入主要来自提成。
"There is no new royalty because it is not possible to take clients through the relevant procedures after paying the advance online, but we only get basic pay at the moment, but our income comes mainly from commissions," says Mr Li.
”南国置业主业为物业出租和物业管理、物业销售。
The main properties in South China are rental and property management and property sales.
除了中大型超市、药房等重点商户开业，及外地房地产项目逐步复工外，公司在武汉的房地产项目尚未开工。
Apart from the establishment of large and medium-sized supermarkets, pharmacies and other key businesses, as well as the gradual resumption of real estate projects in Wuhan, the company has not started real estate projects.
2019年上半年，物业销售占公司营业收入比例超过90%。
Property sales accounted for more than 90 per cent of the company's operating revenue in the first half of 2019.
根据《通告》，武汉地区，除疫情防控、公共事业、群众生活、农业生产必需涉及重要国计民生的企业，及对全国、全球产业链配套有重大影响的企业经批准可复工外，其他企业先按不早于3月20日24时前复工复产。
According to the Circular, other enterprises in Wuhan may resume production before 2400 hours before March 20, unless epidemic prevention and control, public services, people's lives and agricultural production are necessary for enterprises to account for the people's livelihood, and enterprises that have a major impact on the supporting national and global industrial chains are permitted to resume work.
显然李明所在的房地产公司，目前暂不在复工名单中。
It is clear that Li Ming's real estate company is not currently on the list.
与南国置业处境相同，另一家湖北房企也未能开工。
The same situation as South China, another Hubei housing enterprise also failed to start.
“股东着急，董事长更急着，但必须要等到通知才能复工。
"Shareholders are in a hurry, the chairman is more anxious, but he has to wait until notice."
”一位湖北房企人士对《财经》记者无奈表示，武汉处于疫情重灾区，没办法，销售人员采取线上办公。
A Hubei housing enterprise personage to "Caijing" reporter helplessly expresses, Wuhan is in the epidemic disaster area, has no way, the salesperson takes the online office.
“因为不能去银行办理业务，员工工资暂停发放。
"Salary is suspended because we can't go to the bank to do business.
”位于武汉的部分工业园也在等待复工通知。
Wuhan-based industrial parks are also waiting to be notified.
“我们工业园进驻的企业有7、8家，包括建材、食品、智能装备，民企为主。
"We have 7 or 8 factories in the park, including building materials, food, intelligent equipment, private enterprises.
此前武汉有开复工会议，主要以涉及民生、医药等企业为主。
Wuhan before the resumption of meetings, mainly involving people's livelihood, medicine and other enterprises.
”一位武汉工业园负责人王强（化名）向《财经》记者介绍，我们工业园内公司尚不在复工名单中。
Wang Qiang, a Wuhan industrial park official (not his real name), told Caijing that the company in our industrial park was not on the list.
与上述企业翘盼复工类似，多家湖北上市公司虽然省外业务已顺利复工，但省内业务何时重启，仍需等待政府部门的通知。
Similar to the above-mentioned enterprises eager to resume work, although many Hubei listed companies have successfully resumed operations outside the province, but when the provincial business will restart, still have to wait for notification from government departments.
湖北水泥产量占公司约三分之一的华新水泥（600801.SH），湖北之外的基地复工情况比较顺利，湖北省内生产尚未复工。
Huaxin Cement (600801.SH), which accounts for about one-third of Hubei Cement production, resumed work in Hubei Province.
“公司在湖北的项目多集中在高风险区、中风险区，低风险区业务较少。
"Most of the company's projects in Hubei are concentrated in high-risk and medium-risk areas, with less business in low-risk areas.
”公司一位人士表示，公司湖北生产基地主要在鄂东、鄂西，分布较广，各地复工时间要等待当地相关部门具体通知。
A company official said the company's Hubei production base is mainly in eastern Hubei and western Hubei, which is widely distributed and waiting for specific notification from local authorities.
所属旅游行业的三特索道（002159.SZ），因从疫情初期已经开始着手复工的准备工作，目前公司省外部分项目已复工，但湖北省内项目还在闭园中。
The three-lane (002159.SZ) in the tourism industry has resumed work on some of its projects outside Hubei province, but the project in Hubei province is still closed because of preparations for resuming work at the beginning of the epidemic.
公司回复《财经》记者称，公司在湖北省内有5个项目，复工时间需要根据当地疫情控制情况而定，目前尚没有明确的开园时间。
According to Caijing, the company has five projects in Hubei province, the resumption time depends on the local epidemic control situation, there is no clear opening time.
虽然湖北尚有很多公司不能复工，但准备工作早已开始。
Although many companies in Hubei can not resume work, but the preparatory work has already begun.
“公司制定了分批次复工计划，有私家车的员工将会第一批到岗。
"The company has a batch back-to-work plan and the first batch of employees with private cars will arrive.
”南国置业销售人员李明表示，公司也制作了防疫手册，并成立了专门的防疫小组，防疫物资如消毒液、口罩等也已准备好。
Li Ming, a South China home sales person, said the company had also produced a vaccination manual and set up a special anti-epidemic team, and epidemic prevention materials such as disinfectant and masks were ready.
“虽然口罩比较难买点，但通过各种渠道，东拼西凑的数量，够用一些时间。
"Although masks are more difficult to buy, through a variety of channels, a patchwork of quantities, enough time.
”“防护口罩充足，是复工的前提。
"A sufficient supply of face masks is a prerequisite for resuming work.
”华新水泥上述人员亦对《财经》记者表示，公司大股东位于国外，此前帮助公司从海外采购了很多口罩，除了给火神山医院等捐献外，目前还有充足的口罩以供复工使用。
Huaxin Cement officials also told Caijing that the majority of the company's shareholders are located abroad, having helped the company procure many masks from overseas and that it now has enough masks to return to work, in addition to donating to places such as Fo Shen Shan Hospital.
复工难题待解全国各地早已陆续复工或全面复工，但对于疫情中心的武汉来说，全面复工还有点远。
The task of returning to work has been resumed or resumed all over the country, but for Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, full-scale rehabilitation is still a bit far away.
“我已经在外地待了两个月，公司已经部分复工，我一直着急回去，但是递交的申请一直没通过。
"I have been away for two months, the company has been partially reinstated, and I have been anxious to go back, but the application has not been successful.
我所在的武汉的小区现在基本还是封闭状态，回去很难。
Wuhan, where I live in the district is still basically closed, it is difficult to go back.
”武汉一家医药公司人士无奈告诉《财经》记者。
Wuhan, a pharmaceutical company, helplessly told Caijing.
根据记者了解，外地人员返汉进入小区需要经过多个流程，包括准备材料、提交返汉申请、等待审核以及最终通行证的发放。
According to the reporter's understanding, the return of foreign personnel into the community needs to go through a number of processes, including preparation of materials, submission of return applications, pending clearance and the issuance of final passes.
“我们社区基本不批，可能是为了防范风险吧。
"Our community is basically non-franchised, probably to guard against risk.
”上述医药公司人士表示。
The pharmaceutical company said.
而除了程序繁琐、审核异常严格的返汉申请外，员工到岗人数不足、交通不畅成为阻碍武汉复工的最大难题。
In addition to the cumbersome procedures, review of very strict applications for return to Han, the number of employees to the post, traffic obstruction has become the biggest obstacle to Wuhan resumption of work.
“有些员工所在地仍在封路状态，员工根本没法出来，这是影响我们复工的最大问题。
"The biggest problem with getting back to work is that some of our employees are still in a state of closure and can't get out at all.
”武汉鑫立科技人士直言，公司尽管已部分复工，但员工十分不足。
Wuhan Xinli technology personage bluntly said that although the company has partially resumed work, but the staff is very inadequate.
华新水泥人士也告诉记者，省内交通不顺畅，员工返岗受到了一定限制。
Huaxin Cement people also told reporters that the province's traffic is not smooth, staff back to work by a certain limit.
“很多外地滞留的员工回不了武汉，而且回来之后还需要隔离两周。
"Many of the stranded workers will not be able to return to Wuhan and will need to be quarantined for two weeks after their return.
在湖北境内只要有外地流通人员过来必须自行隔离。
Any person in circulation in Hubei province must be isolated by himself.
”武汉优光科技人士告诉记者，公司目前复工人员到岗人数不足1/5。
Wuhan Youguang technology personnel told reporters that the company is now back to the number of workers to the number of less than one-fifth.
由于武汉的特殊疫情，也有员工选择离职。
As a result of Wuhan's special epidemic situation, employees also choose to leave.
“有几个同事的家人已经不让他们来武汉工作了。
"Some of my colleagues' families have stopped them from working in Wuhan.
目前招工有点困难。
Recruitment is a bit difficult at present.
”武汉关山觉文化CEO徐郑冰告诉《财经》记者。
Xu Zheng-bing, Wuhan's cultural chief executive, told Caijing.
部分人员返岗受阻，也让九州通、启迪环境（000826.SZ）在岗一线人员的工作量非常大。
Some of the personnel are prevented from returning to work and the workload of the front-line staff at Kyushu Tong and Enlightenment Environment (000826.SZ) is very heavy.
“由于疫情期间医院每天产生了大量的医疗废弃物，时间紧、任务繁重。
"Because the hospital produced a large amount of medical waste every day during the epidemic, the time is tight and the task is heavy.
”启迪环境相关负责人表示，我们面临巨大的压力和挑战，团队采取“三班倒”的方式进行医废处理，一天24小时不停歇。
"We are under enormous pressure and challenge," said the person in charge of enlightening the environment.
记者了解到，由于武汉公共交通依然处于停滞状态，目前复工人员主要以拥有私家车的员工为主。
The reporter learned that, as Wuhan public transport is still in a state of stagnation, the current workers mainly have private car employees.
不过，为了解决该问题，一些企业正在通过班车的方式解决员工上下班出行问题。
To address the problem, however, some companies are using shuttle buses to help employees get to and from work.
交通不畅一方面造成了员工复工的困难，另一方面，也为公司物流带来了压力。
Traffic is not good on the one hand caused the difficulty of workers back to work, on the other hand, also brought pressure to the company logistics.
回天新材董秘章宏建告诉记者，由于湖北大多数地区实行了封城措施，交通已经被阻隔，发往外地的运输也受到了影响，存在着物流延迟、运费上涨的压力。
Zhang Hongjian, secretary-general of Hubei Province, told reporters that as a result of the closure measures in most areas of Hubei, traffic has been blocked, transport to the outside world has been affected, there are logistics delays, increased freight pressure.
武汉工厂有约700名员工，目前留在武汉约200名，到岗约70名的华中数控，虽然一些员工强烈要求回来上班，但公司也面临两难抉择。
Wuhan, which employs about 700 workers, is staying at about 200 in Wuhan, where it has about 70 CNC employees, though some are keen to return to work, but the company faces a dilemma.
“员工回来上班，很可能下班不能进社区，或者家里还有别人，怎么办？集中安排住酒店的费用确实太高了，如果我现在安排100个员工来上班，一天酒店费用就是2万块钱。
"What if the staff comes back from work and probably can't come into the community after work or if there's someone else at home? The cost of centralizing the hotel is really too high.
”李社林说。
"said Li.
“受春节假期及多地实施疫情封锁的影响，人工、运输等成本上涨明显，生产端成本确实有所提高。
"Due to the impact of the Spring Festival holiday and the implementation of the epidemic blockade, labor, transportation and other costs have increased significantly, production-side costs have indeed increased.
”九州通对《财经》记者表示，原材料供应不足，目前部分防护用品有一定紧张。
Kyushu told Caijing that raw materials were in short supply and some of the protective equipment was under strain.
已经拿到复工许可证的安道麦A（000553.SZ），也只能部分复产。
Andamayer A (000553. SZ), which has been granted a work permit, can only be partially reactivated.
受供应商只有部分复工、物流通关缓慢影响，原材料供应不足，全面复工尚需时日。
Full resumption of work will take time as suppliers resume work only partially, logistics clearance is slow and raw materials are in short supply.
不过，近日，湖北省交通运输厅相关负责人表示，目前，各地都制定了逐步恢复公共交通出行方案，未来几天，除武汉外，更多市县将逐步恢复公共交通出行，也将有更多“点对点”、“一站式”车辆护送务工人员返岗。
However, in recent days, officials from the Hubei Provincial Transport Department said that plans were in place to gradually restore public transport, and that more cities and counties would gradually resume public transport in the coming days, as well as more "point-to-point" and "one-stop" vehicles to escort workers back to work.
武汉已有企业复工，但复工人数受到限制，仅是部分复工。
Wuhan enterprises have resumed work, but the number of workers is limited, only partial resumption of work.
更多的企业仍在焦急地等待复工中。
More businesses are still waiting anxiously to get back to work.
对于很多企业，政府仍没有明确的复工时间表。
For many businesses, the government still does not have a clear timetable for resuming work.
武汉颂大教育科技董事长徐春林也希望可以尽快复工，“我希望我们可以在3月20日复工，但是政府目前没有通知，需要什么条件才可以复工。
Xu Chunlin, director of education and technology at Wuhan Songs University, also wants to get back to work as soon as possible. "I hope we can get back to work on March 20, but the government has not informed us of the conditions required to resume work.
”徐春林告诉记者，疫情至少使公司减少了30%、大约1亿以上的营收。
Xu told reporters that the outbreak had reduced the company's revenue by at least 30 per cent, or about 100 million.
“疫情带来的创伤是巨大的，我们要活下去，必须找办法。
"The trauma of the epidemic is enormous, and we must find a way to survive.
一方面我们进行了业务的结构性调整，放弃或去掉某些业务，深入打透有希望爆发的业务。
On the one hand, we have made structural adjustments to our business, abandoning or eliminating certain operations and penetrating promising ones.
同时，必须压缩开支，省下每一分钱，熬下去，熬到春暖花开。
At the same time, we must economize, save every penny, endure until spring blossoms.
”徐春林说。
"said Xu Chunlin.
“我们的业务基本上都停滞了，第一季度基本没有营收。
"Our business has essentially ground to a halt, with little revenue in the first quarter.
就算复工后，市场回暖需要时间，下半年的现金流可能会出现紧张。
Even if it takes time for the market to pick up after work, cash flows could be tight in the second half.
”徐郑冰告诉记者。
Xu told reporters.
但是复工，不仅仅需要交通的恢复，更需要公共服务设施的恢复。
But getting back to work requires not only the restoration of transportation, but also the restoration of public services.
“即便复工申请获批，但如果我们周围的公共交通和餐饮等公共服务没有得到恢复。
"Even if applications for reinstatement are approved, public services such as public transport and catering around us will not be restored.
我们也没有办法正常上班。
We can't get to work right.
”徐春林告诉记者。
Xu Chunlin told reporters.
业绩影响不一《财经》记者采访发现，此轮疫情对湖北上市公司业绩影响不同。
Performance impact of different "Caijing" reporters found that the round of the epidemic on Hubei listed companies have different impact.
没有停产的兴发集团，受疫情影响不大。
There is no production of the Group, not affected by the epidemic.
“下游客户复工较晚延迟提货，目前公司订单超过库存。
"Downstream customers to resume work late to pick up goods, the company is now ordering more than inventory.
”公司一位人士告诉《财经》记者，公司水运渠道没有受到限制，因公司磷铵等产品属于农资，省内交通有绿色通道，加之一季度是淡季，所以业绩影响较小。
A Caijing official told Caijing that the company's waterway was not restricted because products such as ammonium phosphate are agricultural and there is a green channel for traffic in the province.
较早复工的回天新材，虽然2月份湖北地区收入受到较大影响，但公司对湖北省的收入不具有依赖性，短期内经营受疫情影响亦不大。
Early resumption of work of the new material, although the February Hubei region income was more affected, but the company is not dependent on Hubei Province income, short-term business affected by the epidemic.
2016年至2018年，公司营业收入主要来自于华东、华南地区。
From 2016 to 2018, the company's operating income mainly from East China, South China.
同期，公司在华中地区的营业收入占营业总收入的比例分别为7.35%、8.38%、14.85%。
During the same period, the company's sales revenue in central China accounted for 7.35%, 8.38% and 14.85% of its total revenue, respectively.
相对于上述公司，因受疫情期间全国高速公路免费政策影响，楚天高速虽然很多本地员工坚守岗位，但公司2月份、3月份，基本上没有收入。
In contrast to the company, Chu Tian high-speed although many local staff remained in place because of the free national highway policy during the epidemic, but the company had little income in February or March.
“与往年同期相比，收入大幅下降。
"Compared to the same period in previous years, incomes have fallen significantly.
”公司相关人士表示。
People involved with the company said.
三特索道亦对《财经》记者表示，目前，虽然省外项目已陆续开业，但为防范疫情，各项目均采取了严格控制客流量的举措，省内项目恢复运营时间尚不确定，一季度的业绩面临较大考验。
Santander also told Caijing that although provincial projects have been opened, all projects have taken measures to strictly control the flow of passengers to prevent the outbreak, the provincial project resumption time is uncertain, and the first quarter's performance faces a big test.
除了部分公司一季度业绩面临考验外，部分湖北房企也面临资金压力。
In addition to some companies face the first quarter of the performance test, some Hubei housing enterprises also face capital pressure.
一位福星股份人员告诉《财经》记者，受疫情影响，公司销售业务无法实际推进，收入影响较大，同时无法办理质押业务，让银行发放新的贷款不太可能。
A Fortune Stock Company official told Caijing that because of the epidemic, the company's sales could not be pushed forward, the revenue impact was greater, and it was not possible for the bank to make new loans.
对受疫情影响的企业，湖北省也出台了相关扶持政策。
For enterprises affected by the epidemic, Hubei Province has also introduced relevant support policies.
2月份，湖北发布通知，对受疫情影响、授信到期还款确有困难的中小微企业，金融机构要通过适当降低利率、调整还款期限等方式，帮助企业渡过难关；给予相关企业就业补贴、降低生产成本等。
In February, Hubei issued a notice that financial institutions should help small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the epidemic and having genuine difficulties in repaying their letters of credit due, to help them tide over difficulties by lowering interest rates appropriately and adjusting repayment periods.
上述福星股份人员表示，公司有两笔贷款到期，向银行申请延期，目前已获批准。
The Fortune shares said the company has two loans maturing, apply to the bank for an extension of time, has been approved.
富邦股份（300387.SZ）亦告诉《财经》记者，疫情期间，武汉市东湖高新区和应城市政府对公司维持正常经营生产活动给予了大力支持，“经公司申请，应城市派驻工作组驻点指导生产基地防疫生产，协调银行等金融机构给予疫情期间融资政策支持。
During the outbreak, Wuhan Donghu Hi-tech District and the government of Yingcheng gave strong support to the company to maintain normal production and production activities. "Upon the application of the company, the city dispatched teams to guide the production base epidemic prevention production and coordinate the financing policy support of banks and other financial institutions during the epidemic period.
”九州通亦希望，政府给予更多支持，如低息应急贷款、降低流通环节的资金成本。
Kyushu also wants more government support, such as low-interest emergency loans and a reduction in the cost of capital in circulation.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北上市公司的复工焦虑：有的停不得，有的赔不起。
Hubei listed companies back to work anxiety: some can not stop, some can not afford to pay.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北上市公司的复工焦虑：有的停不得，有的赔不起";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "2019年上半年占据湖北省GDP约五分之一的112家省内上市公司，目前复工情况各异。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The 112 provincial listed companies that accounted for about one-fifth of Hubei province's GDP in the first half of 2019 are now working differently.
部分公司影响不大，但也有企业收入面临较大下滑风险";。
Some companies have had little impact, but also have company revenues that face significant downside risks and demands.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
