美国疫情被严重低估，谁错失了防控窗口？。
The U. S. epidemic is seriously underestimated. Who missed the control window?
蔡婷贻。
CHOI Ying-yee.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
美国公共卫生专家对药监局和疾控中心在检测试剂核准、制造和供应的缓慢甚至缺失倍感受挫，认为这导致美国错过在疫情初期发现感染源并隔离的机会之窗文|《财经》记者蔡婷贻编辑|郝洲在应对此次新冠肺炎疫情的暴发时，美国的病毒检测体系前期失灵了。
Public-health experts in the United States have been frustrated by the slowness or even lack of approval, manufacture, and supply of detection reagents by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Centers for Disease Control, arguing that this caused the United States to miss out on the opportunity to identify and isolate sources of infection early in the epidemic.
“这是一次失败，承认吧！”美国过敏症和传染病研究所主任福契（Anthony Fauci）在3月12日的国会听证会上表示。
"It was a failure, admit it," Anthony Fauci, director of the American Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told a congressional hearing on March 12.
“该体系并没有提速到我们需要的状态。
"The system is not going up to where we need it.
”随着新冠病毒在美国引发的疫情越来越严重，总统特朗普3月13日在白宫宣布进入国家紧急状态。
President Trump declared a state of emergency at the White House on March 13 as the outbreak of the new crown virus in the United States grew worse.
美国抗疫在案例不断增加和股市多日崩盘后，正式进入新阶段。
The U. S. epidemic entered a new phase after a growing number of cases and several days of stock market collapse.
导致美国疫情失控的是两个月内迟迟未得到解决的检测试剂供应问题。
What is causing the epidemic to spin out of control is the long-overdue supply of testing reagents in two months.
哈佛大学流行病学家李普西奇(Marc Lipsitch) 指出，美国实际感染人数远高于目前统计，“目前的数字远远低估了实际情况。
Marc Lipsitch, an epidemiologist at Harvard University, points out that the actual number of infections in the US is well above current figures, which "greatly underestimate the reality."
”尽管世界卫生组织在今年1月底就已经宣布疫情进入“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件（PHEIC）”状态，要求各国政府为疫情做准备，美国华盛顿州也在1月19日出现第一个案例——曾经到过武汉出差的一名35岁男性出现发烧和咳嗽症状，但是美国防疫部门在检测试剂的准备工作上进展异常缓慢。
Although the World Health Organization declared the outbreak "a public health emergency of international concern" at the end of January, requiring governments to prepare for the epidemic, Washington state on January 19 saw the first case of a 35-year-old man who had been on business in Wuhan suffering from fever and coughing symptoms.
2月4日，负责监管检测试剂和药物的食品药品监督管理局（FDA，以下简称药监局）才正式批准美国疾病控制与预防中心（CDC，以下简称疾控中心）自行研发的检测试剂。
On February 4, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which oversees the testing of reagents and drugs, formally approved a test reagent developed by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
截至3月15日，美国的确诊案例已超过3600例，其中重灾区包括华盛顿州（769例），纽约州（732例）、加利福尼亚州（425例）和马萨诸塞州（164例）。
As of March 15, more than 3,600 cases had been confirmed in the United States, including Washington State (769), New York (732), California (425) and Massachusetts (164).
死亡人数达68例，其中养老院发生聚集性感染的华盛顿州占42例。
Of the 68 deaths, 42 occurred in Washington State.
美国疾控中心至今总检测案例仅有1.6万多例。
The CDC has so far detected only more than 16,000 cases.
美国公共卫生专家对药监局和疾控中心在检测试剂核准、制造和供应的缓慢甚至缺失倍感受挫，认为这导致美国错过在疫情初期发现感染源并隔离的机会之窗。
Public-health experts in the United States have been frustrated by the slow, if not lack, approval, manufacture, and supply of detection reagents by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, arguing that this has led the United States to miss the window of opportunity to identify and isolate sources of infection early in the epidemic.
美国疾控中心主任雷德菲尔德（Robert Redfield）在国会听证会上也不得不承认：“不能排除此前因流感去世的病人可能是由于感染新型冠状病毒。
Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also had to admit at a congressional hearing: "It cannot be ruled out that patients who died of influenza earlier may have been infected with the new coronavirus.
”他对国会解释称，缺乏预算导致各实验室设备和人手都不足。
He explained to Congress that the lack of a budget had led to a shortage of equipment and staff in the laboratories.
根据流行病专家的模型推估，在几种不同干预模式下，美国仍可能有1亿6000万人到2亿1000万人在未来受到感染。
Epidemiologist models estimate that between 160 million and 210 million people could still be infected in the future in the United States under several different intervention models.
药监局前副局长沙福斯泰因（Josh Sharfstein）对《财经》记者指出，如果药监局在一开始就整合跨部门意见，情况将有所不同。
Josh Sharfstein, a former deputy director of the agency, told Caijing that the situation would be different if the agency had integrated cross-sectoral views at the outset.
部分愤怒的专家和前官员公开要求第三方尽快就行政部门的失职进行调查。
Some angry experts and former officials have publicly demanded that third parties investigate the administration's failings as soon as possible.
“我不知道哪里出了错，但是我认为我们需要独立评估（哪里出了问题）。
"I don't know what went wrong, but I think we need an independent assessment [of what went wrong].
” 疾控中心前主任弗里登（Tom Frieden）呼吁政府尽快立案调查。
Tom Frieden, former director of the CDC, called on the government to open an investigation as soon as possible.
官僚体系制约美国的防疫工作层层分级。
Bureaucratic system restricts the epidemic prevention work in the United States.
州政府负责第一线，联邦政府主管防疫策略和资源分配。
State governments are the front line, the federal government responsible for epidemic prevention strategies and resource allocation.
检测试剂的核准权在药监局，制造和研发检测试剂的首要责任通常直接落在疾控中心。
The approval authority for detection reagents rests with the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the primary responsibility for manufacturing and developing detection reagents usually falls directly to the CDC.
上海公共卫生临床中心1月11日发表新冠病毒基因组序列后，各国实验室得以直接研发检测试剂，德国一周后首先完成，美国疾控中心在1月24日也完成自行研发，但是2月4日才获得药监局许可使用，接着在2月6日开始向美国数个公立实验室发放90个试剂。
Following the release of the new crown virus genome sequence by the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Centre on 11 January, laboratories were able to develop detection reagents directly, first in Germany a week later and by the CDC on 24 January, but only on 4 February, followed by the distribution of 90 reagents to several United States public laboratories on 6 February.
同一时间段内，世界卫生组织向全球159个实验室发送了25万个试剂。
During the same period, the World Health Organization sent 250,000 reagents to 159 laboratories worldwide.
美国疾控中心坚持自行研发检测试剂，初期接受检测的条件严格限制在14天内到过中国且出现症状或密切接触过确诊案例。
The CDC insists on developing its own detection reagents, limiting initial testing conditions to only 14 days of travel to China with symptoms or close contact with confirmed cases.
所有检测试剂由疾控中心发出到地方医院，地方医院采样后再寄回疾控中心在亚特兰大的总部进行检验。
All detection reagents were sent from the CDC to the local hospital, where they were sampled and sent back to CDC headquarters in Atlanta for testing.
疾控中心和药监局强调这是为了保证准确性，但是在对付传染性如此高的新冠病毒时，这样的做法被认为缺乏弹性，层层关卡浪费了美国几个星期的时间，这段时间本来可以用来更早地找出感染病人，积极控制疫情。
CDC and DIA stress that this is to ensure accuracy, but when dealing with such a highly contagious new crown virus, it is considered inelastic, with layers of barriers wasting weeks in the United States that could have been used to identify infected patients earlier and actively control the outbreak.
曾经在美国疾控中心工作过的范德堡大学医学院流行病学家沙夫纳（William Schaffner）教授指出，自埃博拉到寨卡病毒，美国习惯于自行研发检测试剂。
Professor William Schaffner, an epidemiologist at Vanderborg University School of Medicine who worked at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, notes that the US has been accustomed to developing its own testing reagents from Ebola to Zika.
“接受别人研发的试剂（对疾控中心）是个不可思议的想法……其中可能有些我不知道的考虑，但是我相信自尊是其中一个原因：谢谢你（的慷慨），但我们知道怎么做，我们将自行研发。
"Accepting reagents developed by others [for CDC] is an incredible idea... some of which I may not know, but I believe self-esteem is one reason: Thank you [for your generosity], but we know how to do it, and we'll develop it ourselves.
”不过，美国疾控中心自行研发的检测试剂随后出现无法准确测试病毒的问题。
However, tests developed by the CDC itself subsequently failed to test the virus accurately.
疾控中心后来放开让地方公立实验室自行检验样本后，检测试剂出现无法检测出正确结果的情况，接着检测试剂盒的重要组件又缺货。
When the CDC later released the samples to local public laboratories for self-testing, detection reagents failed to detect the correct results, and then critical components of test kits were out of stock.
至2月底为止，美国全国100多个公立实验室只有3个实验室有准确的疾控中心提供的检测试剂可用。
By the end of February, only three of the more than 100 public laboratories in the United States had accurate CDC detection reagents available.
检测试剂短缺给各州政府的防疫工作带来极大挑战。
The shortage of detection reagents poses a great challenge to the vaccination efforts of state governments.
分管卫生与公共服务的纽约市副市长亨泽（Raul Perea-Henze）自2月2日起三次发信给疾控中心，反复请求疾控中心给纽约市公共健康实验室提供对抗新冠病毒的医疗资源，尤其是检测试剂。
Raul Perea-Henze, New York City's deputy mayor for health and public services, has written to the CDC three times since February 2, repeatedly requesting the CDC to provide the New York City Public Health Laboratory with medical resources, especially detection reagents, to fight the new crown virus.
“之前收到的检测试剂无法满足纽约市860万居民的需求……联邦政府的迟缓回应已经延迟我们打败病毒的努力。
"The detection reagents we received were unable to meet the needs of New York City's 8.6 million residents... The slow response of the federal government has delayed our efforts to defeat the virus."
”疫情严重的华盛顿州西雅图和金县公共卫生部门专家杜钦指出，“检测能力的短缺阻碍了我们对这病毒传染力和可能扩散程度的了解……如果我们更早就具备检测能力，我们可能对这疾病有更好的了解。
"The lack of testing capacity is hampering our understanding of how contagious and potentially contagious the virus is... and if we had been able to detect it earlier, we might have had a better understanding of the disease," said Dr. Duchin, a public health expert in Seattle and Kim County, Washington.
”美国疾控中心因检测试剂不足对筛检对象设立了高门槛，但是高门槛直接导致病毒传播进入社区感染阶段。
The CDC has set a high threshold for screening because of insufficient detection reagents, but the high threshold leads directly to the spread of the virus into the community infection stage.
当美国在2月27日首度出现不明原因感染案例时，疾控中心因为该病人既没有旅游史也没有接触过任何确诊病患而拒绝对她进行筛检，直到她病情严重，入住的加州大学戴维斯分校附属医院再三要求，最终才给予检测，此案例成为美国第一个认定的社区感染案例，北加州的感染案例数后来出现快速增长。
When the United States first reported an unidentified infection on February 27, the CDC refused to screen the patient because she had neither a travel history nor any confirmed patient until she became seriously ill and was tested at the University of California, Davis-affiliated hospital, the first confirmed case of community infection in the United States.
美国疾控中心的坚持背后是药监局的严格要求。
The CDC's insistence is backed by strict requirements from the Drug Enforcement Administration.
不同于中国国内，美国实验室分为公立和私营，私营实验室又分商业和医学研究机构，这些实验室可依法自行研发检测试剂，但需药监局核准才能使用。
Unlike in China, United States laboratories are divided into public and private, and private laboratories are subdivided into commercial and medical research institutions, which may, in accordance with the law, develop their own testing reagents, but only with the approval of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
药监局核准耗时且昂贵，新检测试剂进行临床测试时需要实验室需具备一定资格，样本数和实验结果也须达到一定要求。
It is time-consuming and expensive for the FDA to approve. The new reagent should be qualified in laboratory for clinical testing.
新冠病毒疫情爆发后，美国药监局至2月底都仍坚持这个政策，只允许美国疾控中心进行检测，导致私营实验室的检验和研发能力完全无法被纳入在抗疫的努力之中。
After the outbreak of the new crown virus, the US Drug Enforcement Administration maintained this policy until the end of February, allowing testing only by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, leaving private laboratories "testing and research-and-development capabilities completely ineligible for inclusion in the fight against the disease.
在疫情蔓延同时，数个医学研究实验室，包括西雅图实验室、北卡罗来纳州医学中心和斯坦福大学医学院，在2月中都已完成检测试剂研发，但是因为药监局迟迟未签发紧急授权（Emergency Use Authorization），几个星期内都无法进行临床试验。
As the epidemic spread, several medical research laboratories, including Seattle Laboratories, the North Carolina Medical Center, and Stanford University School of Medicine, completed reagent development in mid-February, but were unable to conduct clinical trials for weeks because of delays in issuing Emergency Response Authorization.
让研究人员不理解的是，药监局在紧急时刻还要求相关材料不能用电子方式传送，而需邮寄纸质文件到马里兰州办公室。
What the researchers did not understand was that, in an emergency, the Drug Enforcement Administration also required that the relevant material should not be transmitted electronically, but that paper documents should be mailed to the Maryland County office.
“都已经2020年了……病毒移动速度比药监局还快。
"It's 2020... the virus is moving faster than the FDA.
”华盛顿大学临床病毒学实验室格伦宁格（Alex Greninger ）指出。
Alex Greninger, of the University of Washington's Clinical Virology Laboratory, points out.
美国临床实验室联盟也指出，私营实验室自1月中就开始和卫生及公共服务部门联络希望取得检验核准，但是从未得到正面回复。
The American Federation of Clinical Laboratories also noted that private laboratories had been in contact with health and public services since mid-January to obtain approval for testing, but had never received a positive response.
药监局的拖延迫使全美国100个实验室的负责人联合发函给参众两院委员会，诉请国会介入加快药监局的审批流程；同一天，美国微生物学会也发函给药监局，要求药监局对其成员紧急授权，信中指出，“如果我们手上有安全且有效的检测试剂但却无法使用，这可能给人们带来（染病）的风险。
The FDA's delay forced the heads of 100 laboratories across the United States to send a joint letter to the Senate and Senate committees requesting Congress to intervene to speed up the FDA's approval process; on the same day, the American Society of Microbiology sent a letter to FDA requesting urgent authorization for its members, stating that "if we have safe and effective detection reagents but cannot use them, people are at risk."
”1月中，当华盛顿州出现首例感染病例，盖茨基金会资助的“西雅图流感研究”负责人认为，既然该计划已经搜集了当地病患案例的鼻咽拭子，检测这些样本是否为属于新冠病毒感染将有助于了解病毒是否已在美国传播。
When the first case of infection appeared in Washington state in mid-January, the director of the Gates Foundation-funded Seattle Flu Study concluded that since the program had collected swabs from local patients, testing whether the samples were new to the virus would help determine whether the virus had spread in the United States.
不过，该提议遭到疾控中心和药监局再三拒绝，主要理由包括：未获得病患的许可、该机构并不具备临床检验资格。
However, the proposal was repeatedly rejected by CDC and the Drug Enforcement Administration, mainly on the grounds that permission had not been obtained from the patient and that the agency did not qualify for clinical testing.
负责“西雅图流感研究”项目的专家朱海伦（Helen Chu）在2月25日不顾药监局有无批准，对一名当地无旅游史的青少年样本做了测试，结果呈阳性反应。
Helen Chu, an expert in charge of the Seattle Flu research project, tested a local sample of teenagers with no travel history on Feb. 25, despite the FDA's approval.
朱海伦表示，这意味着病毒在无人注意的情况下，已经在美国传播了一段时间。
That means the virus has been circulating in the U.S. for some time without anyone noticing, says Ms. Zhu.
华盛顿州随后对其他样本进行病毒测试，发现两个死亡案例样本对新冠病毒检测呈阳性反应。
A subsequent virus test in Washington state found two death samples tested positive for the new crown virus.
心急如焚的地方政府只好重复要求美国疾控中心和药监局加快核准其他实验室的检测资格。
Distraught local governments have repeatedly asked the CDC and the FDA to speed up the approval of other laboratories.
纽约市副市长亨泽要求药监局应该加速核准临床传染病检测、临床实验室和其他机构研发的测试方法，加速纽约市的筛检，同时要求药监局和疾控中心针对新冠病毒的筛检讨论保持迅速且透明。
New York City's deputy mayor, Henze, asked the agency to speed up approval of testing methods developed by clinical infectious disease testing, clinical labs, and others, and to speed up screening in New York City, while requiring rapid and transparent screening discussions between the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
药监局前副局长沙福斯泰因对《财经》指出，联邦法律和架构并非缺乏弹性，在一定安排下，药监局完全具备兼顾到准确性和授权新检测试剂的弹性，只是药监局在疫情初期选择了不一样的策略。
'The federal law and structure are not inflexible, 'former deputy director of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Safstein, told Caijing.' Under certain arrangements, the agency has the flexibility to balance accuracy and authorize new testing agents, although the agency chose a different strategy in the early stages of the epidemic.
提高筛检速度和能力在层层压力和批评下，美国药监局和疾控中心终于对政策做出调整。
Improving Screening Speed and Ability Under mounting pressure and criticism, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have finally adjusted their policies.
药监局在2月29日宣布放宽限制，允许递交申请紧急许可的实验室，只要递交相关材料就可以直接进行临床试验，不需等到药监局完成审查，试剂最后需要递交五个阳性和五个阴性反应样本才能正式成为可使用试剂。
The FDA announced on February 29 that it would relax restrictions by allowing laboratories applying for emergency permits to conduct clinical trials without waiting for the FDA to complete its review. The reagent would have to hand in five positive and five negative response samples before it could be officially used as a reagent.
疾控中心也同时宣布包括Quest 和LabCorp在内的数个大型商业实验室自3月开始加入检测行列。
The CDC also announced that several large commercial laboratories, including Quest and LabCorp, had joined the test in March.
根据智库美国企业研究所的统计，到3月14日为止，美国大学和商业实验室单日检测能力达到26860个，其中加州18个公立实验室单日检测能力8000个，LabCorp 达3000个。
According to the American Enterprise Institute, a think tank, by March 14, U.S. universities and business laboratories had 26,860 one-day testing capabilities, of which 18 state laboratories in California had a one-day testing capacity of 8,000 and Labcorp 3,000.
Quest在获得药监局核准后指出，他们将在一周内达到单日筛检1万个样本目标，一个月内将这一数目提升到单日2万。
Quest said it would meet its one-day screening target of 10,000 samples within a week, raising the number to 20,000 a day within a month.
佛罗里达大学新兴病原体研究所所长莫里斯（John Glenn Morris）强调，“解决方案从来不是疾控中心能派送几个检测试剂，而是让那些大型商业公司参与，这样我们才能开始检测所有需要的人……那时我们才能开始了解这个病毒散播的有多广。
John Glenn Morris, director of the University of Florida's Institute of Emerging Pathogens, stressed that "the solution has never been for the CDC to send in a few detection reagents, but to involve large commercial companies so that we can start testing all those who need it... then we can begin to understand how widespread the virus is spreading."
”除了实验室，检测试剂制造商也加入改善检测试剂的供应问题。
In addition to laboratories, manufacturers of detection reagents are also involved in improving the supply of detection reagents.
赛默飞（Thermo Fisher）3月13日获得美国药监局的紧急检测试剂制造许可，该公司表示将在一周内完成140万个检测试剂盒，一个月内完成500万个检测试剂盒的目标。
Thermo Fisher, which on March 13 was licensed by the U.S. Drug Administration to manufacture emergency test reagents, said it would complete 1.4 million test kits within a week and 5 million test kits within a month.
另一家也得到药监局许可的检测试剂制造公司罗氏则承诺在一周内达到制造40万个检测试剂盒的产能。
Roche, another manufacturer of reagents licensed by the FDA, has pledged to produce 400,000 test kits within a week.
3月11日起美国几个城市开始设立免下车筛检站让民众可以接受采样，包括西雅图、旧金山、圣安东尼奥、纽约州的新罗谢尔、明尼苏达的罗切斯特、康涅狄格州的哈特福和科罗拉多州的丹佛。
Starting March 11, several cities in the United States began setting up drop-off screening stations to allow people to take samples, including Seattle, San Francisco, San Antonio, New Rochelle, New York, Rochester, Minnesota, Hartford, Connecticut, and Denver, Colorado.
科罗拉多的筛检站从3月11日早上10点开始，接受筛检的人需要出示医生的处方。
Screening stations in Colorado start at 10 a.m. on March 11 and people who undergo screening need to show their doctor's prescription.
筛检门槛包括：1、发烧或下呼吸道症状（且曾在14天内接触确诊病例）；2、14天内曾到过高风险传染地，出现发烧或下呼吸道感染症状，且已经排除其他疾病可能；3、出现需要住院的严重呼吸道症状如肺炎但无法确诊者。
Screening threshold includes: 1. Fever or lower respiratory symptoms (with 14 days' exposure to confirmed cases); 2. 14 days at a high-risk infectious site with fever or symptoms of lower respiratory tract infection, excluding other possible diseases; and 3.
不过，想接受筛检的民众过于踊跃，平均等待时间达4小时，3月11才开始开放的筛检站一天后就因为需求过大被迫紧急叫停。
However, the average waiting time for screening was too high, with an average waiting time of four hours, and the screening station, which only opened on 11 March, was forced to stop a day later because of excessive demand.
尽管如此，科罗拉多州表示将尽速满足民众筛检需求，希望未来能对所有感冒症状的民众进行筛检。
Still, Colorado says it will meet the need for screening as soon as possible, hoping to screen all people for cold symptoms in the future.
特朗普在宣布美国进入紧急状态记者会上强调，将来“谁想筛检就能得到。
Trump, speaking at a news conference announcing America's state of emergency, stressed that in the future "anyone who wants it will get it."
”在协调之下，数个主要零售商沃尔玛、 Target、 CVS、 Walgreens的停车场将设立临时取样站，让民众都能够开车筛检；谷歌也设立网站协助民众分析症状和是否需要接受筛检，如果需要筛检网站将直接引导民众到最近的筛检站。
Under the coordination, several major retailers - Wal-Mart, Target, CVS and Walgreens - will set up temporary sampling stations to allow people to drive, and Google has set up a website to help people analyze symptoms and need screening, which will direct them to the nearest screening station if needed.
随着美国社会疫情升温，社会陷入恐慌，特朗普多次谴责防疫部门延误，甚至责怪前任总统奥巴马。
With the US social epidemic heating up and society in panic, Trump has repeatedly condemned the epidemic's delay, and even former President Barack Obama.
但是特朗普政府在2018 年解散国安会“大流行”对应小组被认为是导致这次抗疫缺乏整合的主要原因。
But the Trump administration's decision to dissolve the NSS "pandemic" counterpart in 2018 was cited as the main reason for the lack of integration.
美国疫情是否能进一步得到控制，流行病学家各持不同看法。
Epidemiologists differ as to whether the epidemic in the United States can be brought under further control.
纽约西奈山伊坎医学院病毒和疫苗专家克莱默（Florian Krammer）对《财经》记者指出，检测试剂的短缺造成疫情的扩大，但是这个问题已经差不多得以解决。
Florian Kramer, an expert on viruses and vaccines at the Icahn School of Medicine in Mount Sinai, New York, told Caijing that shortages of detection reagents had caused the outbreak to spread, but the problem had almost been solved.
但他也指出，疫情过后，相关部门应该检讨职能设计的问题。
But he also pointed out that after the outbreak, the relevant departments should review the issue of functional design.
美国过敏症和传染病研究所主任福契在听证会上警告，由于之前的应对失误，美国疫情“将会更为严重。
At the hearing, Fauci, director of the American Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, warned that the epidemic "will get worse" because of previous mistakes.
”他指出满足检测试剂只是第一步，“因为测试不会告诉你最后会有多少案例“，大规模筛检能帮助了解目前疫情的严重性，但是美国需要的是多管齐下对抗病毒，包括筛检、隔离、预防社区感染、同时加速研发治疗方法和疫苗。
He points out that meeting test reagents is only the first step, "because testing will not tell you how many cases will end up in the future." Large-scale screening can help understand the severity of the current epidemic, but what the US needs is a combination of screening, isolation, prevention of community infections, and accelerated development of treatments and vaccines.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国疫情被严重低估，谁错失了防控窗口？。
The U. S. epidemic is seriously underestimated. Who missed the control window?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "美国疫情被严重低估，谁错失了防控窗口？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Who missed the control window?
var msg_desc = "美国公共卫生专家对药监局和疾控中心在检测试剂核准、制造和供应的缓慢甚至缺失倍感受挫，认为这导致美国错过在疫情初期发现感染源并隔离的机会之窗";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; American public-health experts frustrated at the slow or even absent approval, manufacture, and supply of detection reagents by the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Centers for Disease Control, believing that this resulted in the United States missing a window of opportunity to detect and isolate the source of infection early in the epidemic;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
