美国“三剑客”救国悬念。
US "Three Swordsmen" Saves the Nation.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
当人类生存的主题被病毒、大流行病裹挟时，在白宫坐镇的特朗普、民间看好的疾病专家安东尼·福西和美联储主席鲍威尔纷纷出招，是老旧的套路还是定海神针，还未可知文|《财经》特派记者 金焱 发自华盛顿编辑|苏琦3月15日，周日。
WHEN the subject of human survival is threatened by a virus or pandemic, Trump at the White House, popular disease expert Anthony Fauci, and Federal Reserve Chairman Colin Powell are calling for an old-fashioned formula or a pin, as yet unknown.
华盛顿多云而阴冷的天气。
It was cloudy and cold in Washington.
我的脸书上，朋友圈里有很多人都跑出去拍春天了。
My face book, a lot of people in the circle of friends run out to shoot spring.
玉兰花、樱花不管阴郁的天空，不管疫情的侵袭，自顾自优雅地绽放；很多人都在转发各种疫情下的新现实：一些国家已经在周日封城、宵禁和限制出行了，欧洲包括丹麦、波兰、捷克等都关闭了边境……，原来的不可能都变得可能，政府的措施越来越极端。
Magnolia and cherry blossoms bloom gracefully in the dark skies, regardless of the epidemic; many are transmitting new realities across the epidemic: some countries are already closed on Sundays, curfews and travel restrictions, Europe including Denmark, Poland, the Czech Republic, and so on...
微信上，得州大学达拉斯分校前副校长冯达旋用英语给我留了言。
On the microphone, Feng Da, a former vice president of the University of Texas at Dallas, left me a message in English.
他说，美国的社会动荡（social unrest）已然开始。
Social unrest in the US, he says, has already begun.
他指的社会动荡指民众非理性大量购买大米，牛奶，卫生纸和其他必需品。
He referred to social unrest as the irrational mass purchase of rice, milk, toilet paper and other necessities.
冯达旋的原话是：“我真正担心的是，当确诊案例数量达到50万——根据指数模型，美国感染者的数量可能在3天内达到一百万，6天后达到二百万，那时美国可能会面临严重的政治地震！”冯达旋告诉我他在学物理专业时明白了“指数级增长”深刻而简单的含义。
"What I'm really worried about is that when the number of confirmed cases reaches 500,000 - one million in three days and two million in six days, according to index models - the United States could face a serious political earthquake!" Feng told me that he understood the profound and simple meaning of "exponential growth" when studying physics.
不过他说的数字并没让我震惊，毕竟几天前美国权威媒体报道说，根据内部文件，美国疾控中心模型分析师马修·比格斯塔夫（Matthew Biggerstaff）在2月一场电话会议中，向全球约50个专家团队介绍了美国疫情发展的可能方向。
But the numbers he said did not shock me, after several days of authoritative US media reports that Matthew Biggerstaff, a model analyst at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, told a conference call in February that about 50 teams of experts from around the world had been briefed on the possible direction of the epidemic.
比格斯塔夫通过模型，按照病毒的传播程度推演出4个结果。
Using the model, Bigstoff deduced four results based on the degree of transmission of the virus.
其中一个结果显示，美国预计将有1.6亿至2.14亿人会被感染，而疫情可能会持续1年。
One result shows that between 160 million and 214 million people are expected to be infected in the United States, with the epidemic likely to last for a year.
最坏情况下，全美将有170万人死于新冠肺炎。
At worst, 1.7 million people across the United States will die from pneumonia.
此外比格斯塔夫预测，将有240万至2100万美国人需要住院。
In addition, Bigstaf predicts that between 2.4 million and 21 million Americans will need to be hospitalized.
但当他说起自己的故事时，事情不妙的沉重感才磅礴而出。
But when he spoke of his own story, things were not a great heaviness to come out.
他说，越战期间他在大学读研。
He said he studied at the university during the Vietnam War.
那时尽管反战情绪高涨，但美国社会却远比现在感觉更稳定，他甚至怀疑现在这种全国范围的忧虑情绪在一战和二战期间都没有过。
At the time, despite a surge in anti-war sentiment, American society felt far more stable than it does now, and he even suspected that there was no such thing as nationwide anxiety during World War I or World War II.
但没有迹象表明，特朗普了解事态的严重性。
But there is no indication that Trump understands the gravity of the situation.
特朗普被一些美国华人称为大统领。
Trump has been hailed by some Chinese Americans as the grand master.
病毒大敌当前，在白宫坐镇的特朗普显然是危机时刻带领美国人民制定大战略、走出危机的政治大统领。
With the virus now, Trump, sitting in the White House, is clearly the political leader who leads the American people in times of crisis, shaping their broad strategy and emerging from the crisis.
但特朗普面对冠状肺炎病毒的应对方式广受批评：信息不透明、充满了政治宣传且效率低下。
But Trump's response to the coronary pneumonia virus has been widely criticized for its opacity, political propaganda, and inefficiency.
承袭好莱坞大片的套路，灾难袭来，美国的知识分子总会从书本里、实验室中跳出来拯救世界，这一次的民间救世剑客是美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）下的国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）所长安东尼·S·福西（Anthony S. Fauci） 。
Following in the footsteps of Hollywood blockbusters, American intellectuals have jumped out of books and labs to save the world, this time by Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) under the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
与公共卫生危机相伴相随的就是经济灾难。
The public health crisis has been accompanied by economic disaster.
美联储主席鲍威尔3月15日傍晚霹雳行动震撼江湖，他所在的美国联邦储备委员会宣布，将联邦基金利率目标区间下调至零至0.25%的超低水平，还将购买7000亿美元的国债以及住房抵押贷款支持证券。
Federal Reserve Chairman Colin Powell shook China on the evening of March 15, when his Federal Reserve Board announced it would cut the federal funds rate target to an ultra-low level of zero to 0.25%, and would buy $700 billion in Treasury bonds and home-mortgage-backed securities.
被认为直接用了王炸。
Considered to have used Wang Bang directly.
当人类生存的主题被病毒、大流行病裹挟时，三剑客是老旧的套路还是定海神针，还未可知。
When the theme of human survival by the virus, pandemic threat, the three swordsman is an old routine or Dinghai pin, it is not known.
（全球经济在艰难地避免衰退，疫情对信心造成了又一次沉重打击。
(The global economy is struggling to avoid a recession, which is another blow to confidence.)
图：金焱）  经济剑客的剑法朋友给了我一个星巴克的咖啡充值卡，她寄出来时，星巴克还是那个大多数美国人每天打卡的所在，我收到朋友的卡时，星巴克已经关闭了2000多家门店今年年初，美国工业生产就停滞不前。
Yan: The economic swordsman's sword friend gave me a Starbucks coffee recharge card, and when she sent it, Starbucks was where most Americans punch their cards every day. When I received my friend's card, Starbucks had closed more than 2,000 stores.
二月下旬，美国消费者信心的一枝独秀，被看成是全球经济唯一亮点。
In late February, American consumer confidence was seen as the only bright spot in the global economy.
现在美国零售商关门的名单有一大长串，包括苹果、Patagonia，Warby Parker，Urban Outfitters，Glossier和Allbirds，而沃尔玛和Lululemon则限制了商店营业时间。
There is now a long list of retailers closing down in the United States, including Apple, Patagonia, Warby Parker, Urban Outfitters, Glossier and Allbirds, while Wal-Mart and Lululemon restrict shop opening hours.
每年我感知春天的渠道，除了早春的花儿草儿，最主要的市井途径就是看到在街面上那些闲适地品酒聊天的人——饭店和酒吧在天气转暖时都会把窗子通通打开，或者把桌椅搬到街上。
Every year I perceive the channels of spring, except for the early spring flowers and grasses, where the principal avenue is to see the idle tasters of wine and chatting in the streets - restaurants and bars that open windows or move tables and chairs into the streets in the heat of the day.
周六午时这样的场景在华盛顿的某些街区短暂一闪，就被寂静覆盖了。
Saturday afternoon scenes like this, which flash briefly in some neighborhoods of Washington, are covered in silence.
实际上，街面上能见的，从电影院、宾馆、到大大小小的饭店、酒吧、商铺、美容美发店无一幸免，全部被疫情打击。
In fact, the street can be seen, from the cinema, hotels, large and small restaurants, bars, shops, beauty salons, all hit by the epidemic.
美股更是惊心动魄，3月9日和12日道琼斯工业指数的下跌都超过了2000点，美股猛烈下跌触及7%的一级市场熔断线，是1997年以来首次引发熔断机制。
U.S. stocks were even more breathtaking, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling more than 2,000 points on March 9 and 12, and U.S. stocks tumbling sharply to a 7% primary-market meltdown, triggering the first meltdown since 1997.
2月20日至3月12日，道琼斯工业指数、纳斯达克综合指数、标普500指数分别下跌27.76%、26.64%、26.74%，美股已进入技术性熊市。
Between February 20 and March 12, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Nasdaq Composite Index and the S & P 500 fell 27.76 percent, 26.64 percent and 26.74 percent, respectively.
就像美国脱口秀明星所说，投资者看到股市如此惨烈，惊叫着“我的钱呀”！把头埋进手里，不敢看大盘；又突然意识到疫情蔓延，不能碰脸，又惊叫着“冠状病毒”！赶紧抬头，又看大盘再跌，再惊叫……。
As the American talk-show star put it, investors saw the stock market so tragically and cried out, "My Money!" Buried his head in his hands and dared not look at the market; and suddenly realized that the epidemic was spreading, could not touch his face and screamed "coronavirus"!
很多看不见的风险也在不断积聚。
Many unseen risks are also accumulating.
美国正处于金融周期的高位，企业部门面临巨大的债务风险。
The United States is at the top of the financial cycle, and the corporate sector faces huge debt risks.
受全球经济衰退风险和OPEC谈判破裂等影响，原油价格暴跌。
Crude oil prices have plummeted amid the risks of a global recession and the collapse of OPEC negotiations.
在如此艰难情境之下，正是美联储主席出剑之际。
In such difficult circumstances, it was the Fed chairman who struck the sword.
作为世界上最有权势的人——美联储主席需要实现最大就业、稳定物价、并与政府紧密沟通。
As the world's most powerful person, the Fed's chairman needs to maximize employment, stabilize prices, and communicate closely with the government.
我有很多经济学家朋友都在抱怨美联储主席的独立性在特朗普时代已经大打折扣，但新冠肺炎疫情在全球蔓延，经济增长面临风险时，能及时采取行动来支持经济的稳定和增长的也就只有美联储主席了。
Many of my fellow economists complain that the Fed's chairman's independence has been severely compromised during the Trump era, but it is only the Fed chairman who can take timely action to support economic stability and growth when the new crown pneumonia epidemic is spreading around the world and economic growth is at risk.
这个经济上的救市剑客在3月3日打出第一套剑法，紧急降息50个基点。
The economic swordsman struck his first set of sword laws on March 3, cutting interest rates by 50 basis points.
本来市场的期待是3月18日在议息会议上再次降息，但鲍威尔剑走偏风，将联邦基金利率目标区间大幅下调至0-0.25%。
The market was expecting another rate cut at a rate meeting on March 18, but Powell slashed the federal funds rate target to 0-0.25%.
如此密集的降息在经济史上十分罕见。
Such an intense rate cut is rare in economic history.
2008年金融危机后，美联储为挽救经济，曾一路降息至0-0.25%的超低水平，此后延续了7年的零利率政策。
After the 2008 financial crisis, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates to an ultra-low level of 0-0.25%, continuing a seven-year zero-interest-rate policy.
美联储声明称，新冠疫情已给包括美国在内的很多国家的社会和经济造成损害。
The Fed statement said the new crown had caused social and economic damage in many countries, including the United States.
全球金融环境受到显著影响。
The global financial environment has been significantly affected.
本次降息将有助于支持美国经济、稳定就业市场、维持通胀目标。
The rate cut will help support the U.S. economy, stabilize the job market and maintain inflation targets.
除降息之外，美联储还宣布了7000亿美元大规模的量化宽松计划，包括几个月内回购至少5000亿美元国债，增持至少2000亿美元规模的抵押担保证券。
In addition to cutting interest rates, the Federal Reserve announced a massive $700 billion program of quantitative easing, including buying back at least $500 billion in Treasury bonds within a few months and adding at least $200 billion in mortgage-backed securities.
这一举动也非同寻常。
This move is also unusual.
2008年金融危机后，美联储先后推出至少三轮量化宽松。
After the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed launched at least three rounds of quantitative easing.
首轮量化宽松，也就是金融体系最危急的时候，美联储直接购买“两房”债务及其抵押担保证券，此举支持金融机构信用，及时稳定了市场。
The first round of quantitative easing, when the financial system was at its most critical, saw the Fed buy Fannie and Freddie debt and its mortgage-backed securities directly, a move that bolstered the credit of financial institutions and stabilized markets in a timely manner.
对美联储此次出招，花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）的联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）给我解读说，这可能是寻求宣布效应（announcement effect）。
Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former global head of foreign exchange and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, explained to me that this could be an announcement effect.
三剑客珠联璧合？所谓的宣布效应，是因为特朗普在上周五宣布美国进入紧急状态后，众议院迅速通过了疫情救助法案，加上美联储放大招，起码政治经济上强强联合，在病毒面前形成珠联璧合之势。
The so-called declarative effect of three swordsmen is that, following Trump's declaration of a state of emergency on Friday, the House of Representatives quickly passed an epidemic-relief bill, and the Fed magnifies, at least politically and politically, to bring the virus into line.
这是丰满的理想。
This is the fullness of the ideal.
在现实中，美联储宣布降息后，10年期美国国债收益率下跌32个基点，美股道琼斯指数期货和标普500指数期货双双大幅下跌，再次熔断。
In reality, 10-year Treasury yields fell 32 basis points after the Fed cut interest rates, and U.S. stock Dow and S & P 500 futures fell sharply and melted again.
特朗普作为领导美国人民抗疫的大统领，他的主攻方向是遏制策略。
Trump, the leader of the American people's fight against the disease, has focused on containment.
比如在疫情暴发之初，他决定禁止中国航班来美，推动旅行禁令，以为关闭边境便可解决。
In the early days of the outbreak, for example, he decided to ban Chinese flights to the US and push for a travel ban, in the belief that closing the border would solve the problem.
结果一味防守，病毒步步紧逼。
Result blindly defends, the virus is pressing step by step.
在淡化危机规模的轻敌战术后，美国新冠确诊病例直接超过1300例，死亡病例达36例。
After diluting the scale of the crisis, the number of confirmed cases directly exceeded 1,300 in the United States, with 36 deaths.
很多人曾在2月中旬问我，美国的疫情会有多严重。
Many people had asked me in mid-February how serious the epidemic would be in the United States.
记得为了回答这个“将来时”的问题，我仔细察看了美国的疫情数字，回复说，美国问题不大，3月不会超过1500例——这还是给自己留了空间，本来我想说1200例。
To answer that "future tense" question, I looked closely at the U. S. epidemic figure, and replied that the United States had a small problem, not more than 1,500 cases in March - leaving room for myself, I would say 1200.
特朗普对疫情的佛系剑术招来舆论批评后，特朗普并没有改变“防守型”打法。
Trump did not change his "defensive" style of play after Trump drew criticism for his Buddhist fencing of the epidemic.
“为了防止新病例进入我们的国家”，特朗普推出了针对来自欧洲的旅客的旅行限制。
"To prevent new cases from entering our country," Trump has introduced travel restrictions for travelers from Europe.
美国国土安全部宣布入境限制措施，要求从欧洲返回的乘客只能从全美的13个指定机场之一入境，并且入境需要接受额外入境检查，包括回答健康状况、旅行史，并向地方卫生机构报备个人信息。
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has announced restrictions that require passengers returning from Europe to enter only one of the 13 designated airports in the United States and to undergo additional immigration checks, including answering health and travel history, and submitting personal information to local health authorities.
有评论说，特朗普总统宣布在未来的三十天内禁止大部分欧洲人进入美国，这是迄今他在对抗新冠病毒方面迈出的最重要一步。
President Trump's announcement of a ban on most Europeans entering the United States for the next 30 days is the most important step he has taken so far in the fight against the new crown virus.
此举加速了他酝酿已久的与美国许多传统盟友的分离。
This accelerated his long-simmering separation from many of America's traditional allies.
特朗普说要在当地时间13日午夜起，暂停美国与欧洲申根区26个成员国之间的旅行往来。
Trump says he will suspend travel between the United States and the 26 members of the European Schengen Area from midnight local time.
后来特朗普又把英国和爱尔兰包括在内——据说他宣布禁止来自欧洲的人员入境美国之前，他们并没有得到美方的通知。
Trump later included the United Kingdom and Ireland, who were said to have received no notification from the US before declaring a ban on people from Europe entering the US.
这一最后通谍先在欧洲机场引发混乱，混乱随后出现在芝加哥、纽约、达拉斯等指定的“分流”机场。
This ultimatum first caused chaos at European airports, which then appeared in Chicago, New York, Dallas, and other designated "diversion" airports.
有描述说，上百名从欧洲返回的乘客14日晚排成长队，将走廊挤得水泄不通。
Hundreds of passengers returning from Europe were reported to have lined up in long lines Thursday night, choking the corridors.
边检人员对此措手不及。
The border guards were taken aback.
有旅客抱怨，仅十分之一的边检窗口在工作，还有人自述，已被迫等待超过6个小时。
One passenger complained that only one in 10 border control windows was working, while others stated that they had been forced to wait for more than six hours.
在这样密集的环境里，乘客摩肩接踵，机场既没有为旅客测体温，也没有做新冠肺炎核酸检测。
In such a dense environment, passengers jostle each other and the airport has neither a temperature test nor a New Crown Pneumonia nucleic acid test.
所谓的“额外入境检查”，仅仅是要求回答身体状况与旅游史，以及回家后遵守疾控中心指导、开展自我隔离。
The so-called "additional entry check" simply requires an answer to a medical condition and travel history, as well as compliance with CDC guidance and self-isolation upon return home.
一名现场旅客悲观地说：“这就像是世界末日，我们一周以后都会被感染。
"It's like the end of the world," one passenger said gloomily. "We'll be infected in a week.
”在珠联璧合还有待观察时，与特朗普意见相左、又德高望重的NIAID所长安东尼·S·福西成为传播沟通政治化外的一股清流。
While it remains to be seen what topaz will look like, Anthony S. Fossey, the dissident and respected director of NIAID, has become a purge of the politicization of communications.
2月25日接受采访时，福西警告说，如果新冠病毒大流行，旅行限制将变得“无关紧要”，因为“你无法将整个世界拒之门外”。
In an interview on Feb. 25, Fossi warned that travel restrictions would become "irrelevant" if the new cap were to become pandemic, because "you can't shut the world out."
在特朗普宣称美国正在“迅速开发新冠病毒疫苗”，“基本上将以相当快的方式对此进行注射疫苗预防”后，福西表示，开发疫苗的过程可能需要长达一年至一年半的时间。
After Trump declared that the US was "rapidly developing a new crown virus vaccine," which "will be largely vaccinated fairly quickly," Fossi said the process of developing a vaccine could take from a year to a year and a half.
有一次我刚打开电视，特朗普正在谈病毒检测，一如以往，他的语言风格平实得难以让人接受，他说“test is beautiful”（检测是美好的），这让我开怀大笑。
When I first turned on the TV, Trump was talking about virus testing, and, as always, his language was unacceptably plain, and he said "test is beautiful", which made me laugh.
到了福西这里，他说，随着新型冠状病毒向全国传播，美国“没有真正准备好”执行所需的新冠病毒检测量。
Arriving at Fossi, he said the United States was "not really ready" to carry out the new coronavirus test as the new coronavirus spread across the country.
美国不能像其他国家那样迅速、轻松或以同样的数量处理新冠病毒检测，即使病毒已经扩散到44个州，这是“失败的”。
The US cannot process a new crown virus test as quickly, easily, or in the same amount as other countries, even if the virus has spread to 44 states, which is "failing."
他说，美国在病毒检测方面面临着特别的困难。
He said the United States faces particular difficulties in testing for the virus.
“任何人都能轻松进行（检测）的想法，其他国家和地区的人正在做的事情，我们没有为此做好准备。
"Anyone can easily think [of testing] what people in other countries and regions are doing, and we are not prepared for that."
我认为应该这样做，但我们没有。
I think that should have been done, but we did not.
”福西说。
'said Fossey.
福西说的话，都让我笑不出来。
What Fossey said made me laugh.
福西的利剑就是专业知识，在谈及美国新冠肺炎疫情对日常生活的影响时长时，他说，持续的时间很难预测，但是从历史角度看，可能会持续长达8周。
Fossi's sword is expertise, and when it comes to the long-term impact of the outbreak on everyday life, he says the duration is hard to predict, but historically it could last as long as eight weeks.
3月15日福西更是提出了美国全面封国的可能，他说，“即使要面对批评，我倾向采取更激进的措施。
On March 15, Fossi raised the possibility of a full US state, saying, "Even in the face of criticism, I would have preferred more radical measures.
”▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the epidemic: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国“三剑客”救国悬念。
US "Three Swordsmen" Saves the Nation.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "美国“三剑客”救国悬念";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "当人类生存的主题被病毒、大流行病裹挟时，在白宫坐镇的特朗普、民间看好的疾病专家安东尼·福西和美联储主席鲍威尔纷纷出招，是老旧的套路还是定海神针，还未可知";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; When the subject of human survival was threatened by viruses or pandemics, Trump at the White House, favorite disease expert Anthony Fauci, and Federal Reserve Chairman Colin Powell did the same old trick or with Ding Haoshen.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
