专访牛津教授陈铮鸣：英国防疫策略是近乎无情的理性。
Interview with Oxford professor Chen Shining: British epidemic prevention strategy is almost callous reason.
专访牛津教授陈铮鸣：英国防疫策略是近乎无情的理性。
Interview with Oxford professor Chen Shining: British epidemic prevention strategy is almost callous reason.
江玮。
Jianwei.
活粒                      。
Live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
英国准备了更多举措，但这些措施在什么时候实施才能达到最大效果，是英国政府的重要考量，尽管这导致了英国的对策看起来暂时让外人难以理解本文6854字，阅读全文约10分钟文 |《财经》记者 江玮 发自伦敦  编辑 | 郝洲当意大利封锁全境、法国宣布学校停课，英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊最新制定的防疫政策饱受争议。
Britain is poised to do more, but when it will do so is an important consideration for the British government, even though it has led to a seemingly temporary effort to make 6854 words difficult for outsiders to understand and read for about 10 minutes.
尽管他在3月12日宣布英国的防疫行动进入了第二阶段，但他宣布的最主要三个政策是出现发烧或者咳嗽症状的人要进行自我隔离，学校取消海外旅行，超过70岁或者健康状况有问题的人不要乘坐邮轮，并反复强调洗手对于预防新冠肺炎的重要性。
Although he announced on March 12 that the UK's vaccination campaign was in its second phase, he announced three major policies: self-segregation for people with fever or cough symptoms, cancellation of overseas school travel, no cruise for those over the age of 70 or with health problems, and repeated emphasis on the importance of hand-washing in preventing pneumonia.
与此同时，英国的新冠肺炎确诊人数持续上升，截至当地时间3月13日早上九点，798人确诊。
Meanwhile, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia in the UK continued to rise, with 798 people diagnosed as of 9 a.m. local time on March 13.
但英国政府首席科学顾问帕特里克·瓦兰斯表示，英国目前实际的感染人数可能在5000到10000人之间。
But Patrick Varens, chief science adviser to the British government, said the actual number of people currently infected could be between 5,000 and 10,000.
随着英国进入防疫行动的新阶段，英国政府表示将不再对出现轻微症状的病人进行检测，这部分人被要求在家隔离，新冠病毒检测将只对病重入院的患者展开。
As the UK enters a new phase of its vaccination campaign, the British government says it will no longer test patients with mild symptoms, who are required to be isolated at home and whose new crown virus test will only be administered to patients who have been hospitalised.
英国政府此前公布了针对新冠肺炎的防疫行动计划，分为防堵、拖延、研究和减损四个阶段。
The government has previously announced a plan of action to combat pneumonia in the New Crown, divided into four phases: containment, delay, research and impairment.
随着感染数量的增加，防疫工作从防堵进入了拖延阶段，即如何放缓病毒在英国的蔓延以及减少到达峰值的影响。
As the number of infections increased, the epidemic moved from containment to delay, slowing the spread of the virus in the UK and reducing the impact of peak levels.
约翰逊将新冠肺炎形容为“一代人面临的最严重公共卫生危机”，但他同时表示采取更严厉措施的时机非常重要，因此暂时并未宣布关闭学校或者停止大规模集会。
Johnson described pneumonia as "the worst public health crisis of a generation," but said the timing of tougher measures was so important that no school closures or mass rallies were announced.
对于是否关闭学校的选择，约翰逊表示：“科学建议是目前这么做的危害大于好处。
"Scientific advice is that doing so now does more harm than good," Johnson says of the choice whether to close schools.
”与其他国家采取的政策力度相比，英国的对策引发批评。
The British response has drawn criticism compared with the strength of policy elsewhere.
英国前卫生大臣杰里米·亨特批评约翰逊政府在英国距离意大利的现状只差4个星期的时候无所作为。
Jeremy Hunt, a former British health minister, criticized the Johnson administration for inaction just four weeks before Italy's status quo.
世界权威医学期刊《柳叶刀》杂志主编理查德·霍顿表示，英国迫切需要执行保持社交距离和关闭政策，而英国政府是在拿公众的健康“玩轮盘赌”，是一个重大错误。
Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of The Lancet, the world's leading medical journal, said the UK urgently needed to implement social distance and closure policies, and that the British government was making a big mistake in playing roulette on public health.
但瓦兰斯表示英国政府现在采取的措施可以缓解疫情高峰期的到来，并有助于在英国产生群体免疫。
But Varens said the measures the British government is taking now could ease the peak of the epidemic and help create mass immunization in Britain.
他表示，由于大部分受感染人群都是轻症，他们在治愈后可以产生某种群体免疫，让更多的人对新冠肺炎免疫。
Since most of the infected people are mild, they can develop some form of group immunity after treatment, allowing more people to be immunized against the disease, he said.
瓦兰斯预计大约60%的人口在感染病毒治愈后英国才能实现群体免疫，这一数字经过不同角度的解读变得争议。
Valance estimates that about 60% of the population will not be immunized until the virus is cured, a figure that has been interpreted differently.
英国牛津大学流行病学教授陈铮鸣在接受《财经》记者专访时表示，英国政府的做法有时候是近乎无情的理性冷静，但其中考虑到了英国的国情和民众心理。
In an interview with Caijing, a professor of epidemiology at Oxford University in the UK, Chen Shining said the British government's approach is sometimes almost callous and rational, but it takes into account British conditions and psychology.
他表示在英国准备了更多举措，但这些措施在什么时候实施才能达到最大效果是英国政府的重要考量，尽管这导致了英国的对策在和中国以及欧洲其他国家对比时看起来让人难以理解。
He said more was being planned in the UK, but when these measures would be implemented to achieve maximum effect was a key consideration for the British government, although it made the British response look incomprehensible when compared to China and the rest of Europe.
“武汉最大的借鉴意义就是不能挤兑医疗资源，不能让医生感染，这是非常关键的。
"Wuhan's greatest reference meaning is can not squeeze the medical resources, can not let the doctor infect, this is very crucial.
”陈铮鸣说。
"said Chen.
《财经》：和法国宣布学校停课、意大利宣布封锁全国相比，英国政府的对策是否过于轻视？陈铮鸣：官方说是基于科学做出的决策，但科学家层面已经有一些不同的声音。
Caijing: Is the British government's response too disdainful when compared with the French announcement of school closures and Italy's announcement of a nationwide blockade? Chen says it is officially science-based, but scientists already have different voices.
《柳叶刀》主编和前卫生大臣都对政府的举措有不同的意见，觉得他们做得太少。
The Lancet editors-in-chief and the former health minister were divided over the government's actions, feeling they were doing too little.
本来以为会有更大的举措，比如关闭学校，限制或者取消大型的人群聚集活动如体育赛事、音乐会，或者有明确的规范，比如德国取消了1000人以下活动。
There would have been greater moves, such as closing schools, restricting or canceling large crowds such as sports events, concerts, or clear rules, such as the cancellation of 1,000 events in Germany.
因此约翰逊宣布的举措在英国国内面临不同的声音。
As a result, Johnson's announcement was met with different voices in Britain.
在我看来，现在的政策可能更多是希望对经济和民生的影响降到最低，但这些措施迟早会改，因为英国疫情还处于急速上升阶段。
In my view, policies may now be aimed more at minimizing the impact on the economy and people's well-being, but sooner or later these measures will change, because the UK epidemic is still on the upswing.
现在英国防疫工作已经进入第二阶段，即降低伤害阶段。
The UK is now entering the second phase of immunization, harm reduction.
第一阶段是希望把病毒挡在外面，英国在2月基本上是想通过早期筛查诊断和隔离接触病例的人来围堵病毒。
The first phase is the hope of keeping the virus out of the way, and in February the UK basically wanted to block the virus by early screening, diagnosis and isolation of cases.
现在出现大幅度社区传播之后，可能力不从心，希望大部分的人能扛过去，不至于出现对医疗系统的突然大规模挤兑。
Now there is a large community spread, may not be able to bear the majority of the people can carry the past, there is no sudden large-scale run on the health-care system.
按病情轻重进行治疗也是合理的，因为中国和意大利出现的情况也存在这个问题。
Treatment on a case-by-case basis is also justified, as is the case in China and Italy.
《财经》：英国政府的一个策略是希望能够产生群体免疫来对抗病毒，但在缺乏疫苗的情况下，这一策略是否过于冒险？陈铮鸣：所以说英国的策略过于冒险和理性，现在德国也是这个措施。
Caijing: One of the British government's strategies is to create mass immunization against antiviral diseases, but is it too risky in the absence of a vaccine? Chen says: So the British strategy is too risky and rational, and Germany is now doing the same.
这与东方的打法完全不同，抵挡不住了，就把你引进来。
This is completely different from the way the East played, can not resist, so you were introduced.
这个病毒能不能消灭掉？它和SARS还不一样，SARS感染以后发高烧，高烧之后才有感染力，最后病毒消失了。
Can the virus be wiped out? Unlike SARS, which has a high fever after infection, it has a high fever before it becomes infectious, and eventually the virus disappears.
但新冠病毒是一个持久战，最后消灭病毒有两个方法，一是疫苗尽快出来，这是有希望的，但夏天之前肯定看不到。
But the new canopy virus is a protracted war, the last two ways to eliminate the virus, a vaccine as soon as possible, it is hopeful, but certainly not before summer.
另一个是像西班牙大流感，来了三拨，最后消亡就是因为感染的人太多了，大家都产生了免疫力。
The other, like the Spanish flu, came in three waves and died out because there were so many people infected that everyone developed immunity.
有人在感染之后死亡，也有人感染之后治愈，恢复之后就产生了免疫力，病毒传播的危险度也在慢慢降低直到最后消亡。
Some die after infection, others heal after infection, recover and develop immunity, and the risk of virus transmission slowly diminishes until it dies.
现在英国政府采取的也是这种理念。
The British government is now adopting the same philosophy.
从某种角度来讲，政府还应该多做一些，但想要采取亚洲，比如中国的做法，可能没有办法。
In a way, the government should do more, but there may be no way to do what Asia, China, for example, has done.
中国的力度很大，快刀斩乱麻，但成本也很高。
China is big, quick to cut corners, but also costly.
中国的措施也是在一个特定的时机，正好在春节期间，大家都在放假，已经停摆，那就继续停摆，以此控制疫情。
China's measures also come at a specific time, during the Spring Festival, when everyone is on holiday, has stopped, so continue to stop to control the epidemic.
假如在常态下，要让14亿人都停摆，我觉得很难做到。
If, under normal circumstances, 1.4 billion people were to stop, I find it difficult to do so.
各个国家国情不同，时间点和感染情况不一样，出发点也各异，所以有各种应对方法，适合各自国情，但也各有利弊，没有一个完美的方案。
Different national circumstances, different time points and infections, and different starting points have led to a variety of responses that are appropriate to each national context, but also have advantages and disadvantages, without a perfect solution.
《财经》：英国政府说是基于科学、概率和模型制定了这些政策，但新冠病毒是全新的病毒，如果算法不够准确导致决策失误怎么办？陈铮鸣：虽然有这种可能，但现在病毒的系数已经基本上清楚了。
Caijing: The UK government says it developed these policies on the basis of science, probability and models, but the new crown virus is a completely new virus, and what if the algorithm is not accurate enough to lead to errors in decision-making? Chen rattles: Despite this possibility, the virus's coefficients are now largely clear.
R0再生系数，也就是一个人可以传染几个人，大概是三到四左右。
R0 Regeneration coefficient, the number of people a person can infect, is about three to four.
以前传播系数不到3，大概六天感染人数翻倍，但现在英国和意大利的情况是四天翻倍。
Whereas previously the transmission factor was less than three and the infection rate doubled in about six days, in Britain and Italy it has doubled in four days.
实际情况可能更加严重，传播系数可能在3到4左右。
The actual situation is likely to be more serious, with a transmission factor of about 3 to 4.
根据这个曲线基本可以预测，所以现在就是要延缓。
The curve is basically predictable, so it's time to slow down.
一是通过宣传，民众自己采取一些行动，这样对经济的损失最小，因为一旦政府出面的话，很多东西需要政府买单，经济政策与政治政策是密切相关的。
First, through advocacy, the people themselves take some action, which is the least costly to the economy, because once the Government comes forward, a lot of things need to be paid for by the Government, and economic and political policies are closely linked.
这里有很多经济考虑，各国有各国的国情。
There are many economic considerations, and each country has its own national conditions.
另一个情况是，英国肯定会采取一些极端的措施，像意大利一样，但要对采取这些措施的时间和民众的耐受度进行评估。
The other is that the UK will certainly take drastic measures, as in Italy, but only if the timing and tolerance of the population are assessed.
像中国那种程度的封城肯定不行，中国民众忍耐力特别强，配合，有大局观。
China's level of closure is certainly not the case, the Chinese people have a strong tolerance, cooperation, the overall view.
英国民众做不到，所以英国政府希望用在最关键的时间点。
The British people cannot do it, so the British government wants to spend it at the most critical point in time.
这种考虑有一定道理，但也可能不准确，可能低估了民众的觉悟。
There is some truth to this consideration, but it may also be inaccurate and may underestimate the consciousness of the population.
科学的东西也不是一成不变的，肯定会有不同的声音，我们已经听到了不同的意见。
Scientific things are not static, there will be different voices, we have heard different views.
所以从个人角度，没有必要都听政府的，根据自己的知识和判断，该采取什么措施采取什么措施。
So from a personal point of view, it is not necessary to listen to the government, according to their knowledge and judgement, what measures should be taken to take what measures.
很多人可能还是歌舞升平，该干什么干什么，有可能最后没事，但也可能两个星期之后就开始骂了。
Many people may still sing and dance, do what should be done, may finally be okay, but also two weeks later began to scold.
但也有人比较警觉，尽量减少面对面的接触，在生活尽量维持常态的同时，做你能做的事情。
But there are also people who are alert and keep face-to-face contact to a minimum and do what you can while living as normal a life as possible.
这是比较明智和理性的做法。
This is a wiser and more rational approach.
其实社会的反映已经开始逐渐强烈了，哪怕政府不讲，民众会有自己的判断。
In fact, the social reaction has begun to strong, even if the government does not speak, the people will have their own judgment.
尽管如此，社会没有出现大的恐慌，国家做国家的，社区做社区的，个人做个人的，找到一个比较平衡的方案。
Nevertheless, there is no great social panic. The State does the state, the community does the community, the individual does the individual, and finds a more balanced programme.
《财经》：约翰逊的顾问说英国在四周之后可能面临和意大利同的局面，英国的国家医疗服务体系（NHS）在多大程度上能应对这种局面？陈铮鸣：英国的情况肯定会恶化和蔓延，但会不会发展成意大利的局面，我个人的判断是可能不至于那么差。
Caijing: Johnson's advisers say the UK could be in the same situation as Italy in four weeks' time.How well can the NHS deal with this situation? Chen says: The situation in the UK is bound to worsen and spread, but whether it will develop into an Italian situation may not be so bad.
第一，早期的感染曲线显示，意大利刚开始的情况比英国还好，几乎是零增长，后面突然爆发，这说明围堵工作做得不够到位，社区已经广泛传播却没有察觉。
First, the early infection curve shows that Italy started out better than the UK, with almost zero growth, followed by a sudden explosion, suggesting that containment is not in place and that the community has spread undetected.
英国前期也采取了各种措施，有些传播及时得到了控制，虽然力度如果和新加坡相比可能还是不够，但至少在2月没有明显的增加。
Various measures were also taken in the early part of the year, and some communications were brought under control in time, although they may not have been sufficient compared to Singapore, but at least there was no significant increase in February.
意大利好像非常风平浪静，除了1月底有输入性病例，后来基本没出现。
Italy appears to be very calm, with the exception of imported cases at the end of January, which were largely absent.
意大利是第一个宣布进入紧急状态和第一个切断与中国航线的国家，最后也是疫情最严重的。
Italy was the first country to declare a state of emergency and the first to cut off shipping to China, and finally the worst.
由于采取的政策时间点把握得不好，或者把握好了但力度不够，因为它不像武汉出现爆发，大家有一种虚假的安全感，觉得没事，该干嘛干嘛。
Due to the adoption of a poor grasp of the policy time point, or good but not strong enough, because it does not appear in Wuhan, people have a false sense of security, feel free, do what.
意大利2月举行了很多活动，威尼斯狂欢节、米兰时装周、马拉松都照常举行。
Italy held many events in February, Venice Carnival, Milan Fashion Week, marathon as usual.
这种聚集性的群体活动传播很厉害，密切接触和互相交流，成为病毒最好的传播场所。
This kind of aggregation of mass events spread very well, close contact and mutual exchange, become the best transmission of the virus.
病毒开始迅速扩张，开始可能以年轻人为主，他们没有出现很明显的症状，扛一扛就过去了。
The virus began to spread rapidly, and may begin with young people, who did not show obvious symptoms and then went away carrying it.
慢慢扩散到老年人，真正的问题就爆发了。
Slowly spread to older people, and the real problems erupt.
意大利是欧洲老龄化最严重的国家，对医疗的冲击很大。
Italy is Europe's oldest country, with a strong impact on health care.
意大利的另一个问题是出现地区性聚集，伦巴第大区的病例占了全国百分之六七十的比例。
Another problem in Italy is the emergence of regional aggregations, with the Lombardy region accounting for 60 per cent of cases nationwide.
虽然这是意大利最富有的地区，但医疗资源再怎么充沛也抵挡不住病人洪水般增加。
Although this is Italy's richest region, but no amount of medical resources can withstand the flood of patients.
英国希望病例能够比较均匀地分布，不会在某一地方出现对医疗资源的严重挤兑。
Britain wants cases to be distributed fairly evenly, without a severe run on health resources anywhere.
我认为英国可能不会出现像意大利那样的情况。
I don't think there might be a situation like that in Italy.
一是年龄，英国的年龄结构相对没有那么老龄化，第二分布相对比较均匀，三是英国的感染虽然也在恶化，但早期病人的传播没有像意大利来的那么快，准备时间比较充足。
The first is age, Britain's age structure is relatively less aging, the second is relatively evenly distributed, and the third is that, while infection is worsening in the UK, the spread of early patients is not as rapid and time-consuming as in Italy.
英国的疫情发展可能比意大利晚三到四周，医院也在做必要的准备。
The British epidemic may be three to four weeks later than in Italy, and hospitals are making the necessary preparations.
现在分成两步，一是没有生命危险的手术推迟，但这会带来一些医疗的次生危害。
There are now two steps. One is that life-saving surgery is delayed, but that could lead to some secondary medical damage.
另外可能要像意大利那样进行病人选择。
Patient selection may also be required, as in Italy.
治疗不是按先来后到，而是要根据病情，当呼吸机或者体外肺循环仪不够的时候，给谁使用。
Treatment is provided not on a first-come, first-served basis, but on a case-by-case basis, when the ventilator or extracorporeal pulmonary circulation is insufficient.
这很残酷，但没有办法。
It's cruel, but there's nothing we can do.
《财经》：英国政府放弃了对所有轻症疑似病人进行检测，但这也有可能加剧社区传播风险。
Caijing: The British government has abandoned testing for all suspected light patients, but it could also increase the risk of community transmission.
这是一个明智的决定吗？陈铮鸣：英国政府的做法让中国来讲很难理解，这是由它的政治、社会决定的，有的时候是近乎无情的理性冷静。
Is this a wise decision? Chen Shunming: The British government's approach is difficult for China to understand because of its political, social, and sometimes callous rational calm.
它根据概率论来计算，必要的措施希望民众配合。
It is calculated on the basis of probability theory and the necessary measures are expected of the public.
英国是一个公民社会，诊断了一例不可能把患者的行动轨迹全部公布，在东方社会这么做可以让大家提高警惕，这里出于保护个人隐私的目的是不可能做到的。
The UK is a civil society that has diagnosed a case in which it is impossible to tell the full story of a patient's trajectory, and doing so in Eastern societies can lead to increased vigilance, which is impossible for the sake of protecting one's privacy.
你不知道在哪里发生，在很大程度上加大了防控难度。
You don't know where it happens, which greatly makes prevention and control more difficult.
但现在的政策是，出现症状全要隔离，我觉得民众应该会遵守。
But now the policy is to isolate all symptoms, and I think people should follow them.
经过两个月大家对这个病的认识还是很重视的，电视上也在宣传各种卫生防护措施，洗手，但没有说戴口罩。
After two months of awareness of the disease is still very important, television is also promoting a variety of health protection measures, hand-washing, but did not say wearing masks.
这有客观和主观的原因，一是口罩紧缺，二是病毒通过飞沫传播，只要保持一定距离，所以强调洗手有其科学道理。
There are objective and subjective reasons for this, one is the shortage of masks, and the other is the virus spread through droplets, as long as a certain distance, so there is scientific reason to emphasize hand washing.
《财经》：放弃对轻症病人的检测是因为检测能力不足吗？陈铮鸣：我不认为完全是，这是英国的一个策略。
Caijing: Do we give up testing for mild cases because of insufficient detection capability? Chen Shunming: I don't think it's all a British strategy.
其实在2月英国已经开了十几个检测中心，现在的能力大概一天可以检测一到两万。
In fact, more than a dozen testing centers were opened in the UK in February, and are now capable of testing up to 20, 000 a day.
检测出的数量可以体现疫情严重程度，但都去检测，结果显示阳性也未必去得了医院，因为要视病情而定。
The number detected can be an indicator of the severity of the outbreak, but all are tested and the positive results do not necessarily go to the hospital, depending on the condition.
如果是轻症就待在家里，因为80%的人都是靠自身免疫力扛过去。
If it's a mild illness, stay at home, because 80% of people carry it on their own immunity.
一部分人扛不过去才到医院。
Some people can't get past the hospital.
这看上去是近乎无情的理性冷静，但也有它的道理，因为感染数量大，必须要做一些取舍。
This may seem almost callous rational calm, but it also makes sense because the number of infections is so high that some trade-offs must be made.
在家隔离，英国的条件比中国好一些，因为人口密度比较低，家里通常有几个房间，分为楼上楼下。
Isolation at home is better in Britain than in China because of the low population density and the fact that there are usually several rooms in the house, divided into upper and lower floors.
但不检测就不会了解疫情的真实情况。
But without testing, we won't know what the epidemic is really like.
《财经》：武汉之前也是轻症在家隔离，但由此导致更多人感染，所以后来建设方舱医院集中收治，武汉的经历对英国没有借鉴意义吗？陈铮鸣：武汉最大的借鉴意义就是不能挤兑医疗资源，不能让医生感染，这是非常关键的。
Wuhan is also a light disease isolated at home, but as a result of which more people become infected, so the experience of building a centralized hospital in Fangdao has no significance for Britain? Chen Shunming: Wuhan's greatest lesson is that it can't squeeze medical resources and let doctors infect.
进方舱医院的患者其实很少接受治疗，大部分不需要治疗就扛过去出院了。
Patients admitted to the cabin hospital receive little treatment, and most are discharged without treatment.
但通过设置方舱医院减少了不必要的社区传播。
However, unnecessary community transmission has been reduced through the establishment of cabin hospitals.
英国需不需要？现在暂时可能还不需要。
Britain needs it or not? It may not be needed for the time being.
一是英国的量还没有那么大，二是英国的国情决定可能不需要这么做，它的社区密度低，居住条件也比较好。
The first is that the UK is not as large as it is, and the UK may not need to do so because of its low density of communities and better living conditions.
英国强调在家隔离的话，家人一定要隔离，希望不会产生太多家庭聚集的交叉感染。
The UK emphasises that families must be separated if they are isolated at home, in the hope that there will not be too many cross-infections where families congregate.
肯定会有，但严重程度现在还不是很清楚。
Definitely, but the extent of the problem is not clear.
《财经》：戴口罩对预防新冠肺炎有没有用？为什么英国和中国结论不同？陈铮鸣：英国和欧洲的文化是生病了才戴口罩。
Caijing: Does wearing masks help prevent pneumonia? Why do the UK and China come to different conclusions? Chen rattles: British and European cultures wear masks only when they are sick.
戴口罩的华人被打或者被歧视，有的是因为他们觉得你生了病还在外面跑，由此引发误解和冲突。
Chinese wearing masks are beaten or discriminated against, sometimes because they think you're sick and run outside, leading to misunderstanding and conflict.
但随着疫情的扩张，慢慢也会改变。
But as the epidemic spreads, it will change.
尤其在人口密集的地方，现在已经有一些人开始戴口罩。
Especially in densely populated areas, some people are now wearing masks.
《财经》：你戴口罩吗？陈铮鸣：我没有戴。
Caijing: Do you wear a mask? Chen Ming: I am not wearing it.
第一现在英国感染的人数还是少，比例还是很小，而且散在不同的地方。
First, the number of people infected in Britain is still small, the proportion is still small and scattered in different places.
第二，采取了个人防护。
Secondly, personal protection was taken.
现在戴口罩意义不是很大，因为英国人口密度不是很大。
Wearing masks is not a big deal these days because of Britain's low population density.
飞沫传播通常也就是一两米的距离，最最关键是洗手。
The most important thing is to wash your hands when droplets travel a distance of one or two meters.
以前做过很多研究，禽流感和往年流感的时候，发现戴口罩不洗手也不能阻止病毒传播。
Previous studies have found that wearing a mask without washing your hands does not stop the spread of the virus.
有人戴口罩方式不对或者没有及时更换，又或者戴了以后不注意洗手，反而增加了感染风险。
Some people wear masks incorrectly or do not replace them in time, or do not pay attention to hand washing after wearing, but increased the risk of infection.
还有一个问题是口罩现在很难买到了，虽然备了口罩，但要关键的时候再用。
Another problem is that masks are hard to get these days, and while wearing them, use them when critical.
现在尽量保持社交距离，减少接触。
Try to maintain social distance and reduce contact now.
大家都比较警觉，一定程度上还是能起到作用。
Everybody is alert, but to a certain extent it works.
《财经》：防堵、拖延、研究和减损这四个阶段是英国应对传染病疫情时通常采取的模式吗？陈铮鸣：不完全一样。
Caijing: Are the four stages of containment, delay, research and impairment the usual UK model for dealing with infectious disease outbreaks? Chen Shining: Not exactly the same.
英国肯定会制定一些政策，尤其是面对大的疫情，但首先要根据疫情的流行病学特征、危害和传播模式来制定。
The UK will certainly have some policies in place, especially in the face of major outbreaks, but first and foremost according to their epidemiological characteristics, hazards, and modes of transmission.
以前疯牛病传播途径不同，当时做了最坏的打算，可能会有100万人感染，但事实上没有。
BSE was spread differently in the past, when the worst-case scenario was to infect a million people, but in fact it did not.
这一次说可能70-80%的人感染，50万人死亡，这是最坏的打算，我估计不会这么糟。
This time around 70-80% of the population is infected and 500,000 people die, which is the worst-case scenario and I don't expect it to be so bad.
但先把最坏结果想到了，再看每个阶段出现什么情况，如何应对，根据国力，找到利益最大化、危害最小化的应对方式，英国无法做到像中国那样不计成本。
But by thinking of the worst, looking at what is happening at each stage, how to deal with it, and finding ways to maximize benefits and minimize harm according to its national strength, the UK cannot afford to be as reckless as China.
中国国情不同，中国是一个全能政府，民众比较配合，疫情爆发相对集中在武汉。
China's national conditions are different, China is an all-round government, the people are more cooperative, the outbreak of the epidemic relatively concentrated in Wuhan.
英国的四阶段行动计划是根据这次疫情制定，现在进入第二阶段，但第二阶段也不是一成不变，措施还会分阶段出来。
The United Kingdom's four-phase action plan was developed in the light of the epidemic and is now in its second phase, which is not static and will be phased in.
研究穿插在各个阶段，不只是英国的研究，也会参考国际经验。
The study will be interspersed at various stages, not only in the UK, but also with international experience.
现在主要还是延缓，因为还未感受到对英国医疗系统特别大的冲击。
The delay is mainly due to the fact that the impact on Britain's health care system has not yet been felt.
但两个星期之后再看，NHS受到的压力可能会不同，但尽量希望是软着陆，而不是硬着陆，导致医疗系统崩溃，意大利就面临这种情况。
But two weeks from now, the NHS may be under different pressure, but trying to hope for a soft landing, rather than a hard landing, could lead to a collapse of the health-care system, as in Italy.
第二阶段的政策还会分三个层次，现在仍处于初级层次，虽然已经进入延迟阶段，但出台的政策还是蜻蜓点水，大力度的措施还没有出台，比如休学、休市、休工等，或者封城。
The second phase of the policy will have three levels and is still at an early stage, and although it is in its early stages, policies are still on the drawing board and drastic measures are yet to be put in place, such as suspending schools, markets, jobs or cities.
这些都是可能的，都在计划之中，在必要的时候出台。
These are possible, planned, and available when necessary.
但什么时候出手，我们现在也不好猜测。
But when to take the shot, we are not easy to guess.
法国比英国严重一些，按疫情分析比英国早一到两周。
France is a little more serious than Britain, one or two weeks ahead of the epidemic.
其中有社会心理学的考虑，法国到了这个时候，大家怕了，一出手大家容易接受。
Among them has the social psychology consideration, France arrives this time, everybody is afraid, one hand everybody is easy to accept.
但英国还没有到那种情况，如果现在喊狼来了，等到真的狼来了没有人信，这是很重要的出发点。
But Britain has not yet reached that point, and if the wolf comes now and no one believes it when it does, that is an important starting point.
武汉和意大利总是遥远的，大部分民众还体会不到其严重性。
Wuhan and Italy are always far away, and most people still do not realize its seriousness.
但过一个星期，如果疫情再继续恶化，现在每四天翻倍，接下来可能要考虑取消一些大型活动，比如体育赛事和音乐会。
But a week later, if the epidemic continues to worsen and now doubles every four days, it could be followed by consideration of cancelling major events, such as sporting events and concerts.
如果政府现在宣布取消公共活动，势必要产生退票，退票对企业影响非常大。
If the government now announces the cancellation of public events, there is bound to be a refund, the impact on enterprises is very large.
而自己不去是自己的事情，损失由自己承担。
And not their own things, the loss of their own bear.
所以现在的措施是尽量对社会、经济的震荡降到最低。
Therefore, the current measures are to minimize social and economic shocks.
接下来可能休学、休市，最后在看要不要封城。
Next may suspend school, the rest of the market, in the end to see whether to close the city.
我估计会有这些不同阶段，希望不要走到封城这一步。
I expect there will be these different stages and I hope not to go the way of the City.
但封城也是一个名义上的封城，意大利的封城和武汉的封城程度是不一样的。
But the sealing of the city is also a nominal one, the extent of Italy and Wuhan is not the same.
《财经》：英国政府在制定决策的时候引入一个行为心理顾问小组，他们依赖的模型在很大程度上依靠对民众行为的预估，并由此制定了和其他国家应对程度完全不同的政策。
Caijing: The British government has introduced a team of behavioral psychologists into its decision-making, relying on models that rely heavily on estimates of people's behaviour and that lead to policies that are quite different from other countries "responses.
你如何看待这个小组的作用？陈铮鸣：很多事情有正反两方面，有的时候可能有点教条，但也不能完全忽略。
How do you view the role of this group? Chen Shining: Many things have positive and negative aspects, and sometimes it may be a bit dogmatic, but it can't be completely ignored.
比如意大利封城，看起来是很好的应对举措，但孩子休学了，谁来照看？虽然减少了学校的密切接触，但这些孩子回到家里，有的需要老人带，于是增加了孩子传给老人的风险。
Italy, for example, seems to be a good response, but who will take care of the children when they leave school? Although it reduces the school's close contact, some of these children come home with older people, thus increasing the risk of their children being passed on to the elderly.
如果需要父母照顾，父母是医生怎么办，医疗资源本来就已经很紧张。
Where parental care is needed and parents are doctors, medical resources are already stretched thin.
另一个要考虑的是要封锁多长时间。
Another consideration is the length of the blockade.
中国已经到了极限，再下去大家都要“发疯”了。
China has reached the limit, then everyone will be "crazy".
英国和意大利又是另一种情况，一旦结束，全都跑去度假，反而增加人口流动和感染机会。
In Britain and Italy, on the other hand, when it is over, all go on holiday, increasing the chances of mobility and infection.
这个问题很让人纠结，但很多问题不是这么简单，有其两面性。
This question is very confusing, but many problems are not so simple, it has two sides.
对于民众的耐受度的评估是基于以往研究，在特殊时候，民众的耐受力可能不一样。
Assessments of tolerance in the population are based on previous studies and may vary among people at particular times.
但要英国封锁两个月是不可能的，两到三个星期可能是极限，但这三个星期什么时候用？等到高峰期的时候，大家心理也有准备，也接受了。
But a two-month British blockade is out of the question, and two or three weeks may be the limit, but when are those three weeks usedBy the peak, people are prepared and accept it.
现在可能不太能接受，在水到渠成时采取一个有效措施，大家都会配合。
It may not be acceptable right now, but when the time comes to take an effective step, everyone will cooperate.
这有一定的科学道理，但看上去有些过于理性冷静，但没办法，就像打仗一样，总要有所取舍。
There is some scientific reason, but it seems to be too rational and cool, but there is no way out, just like fighting, there is always a trade-off.
《财经》：但从中国人的角度看还是有些难以理解。
Caijing: But it's still a little difficult to understand from the Chinese point of view.
陈铮鸣：是比较难以理解。
Chen Shining: It is more difficult to understand.
中国确实有很多值得借鉴的地方，但国情不同，不可能也没办法采取同样的举措。
China does have a lot to learn from, but different national conditions make it impossible and impossible to do the same.
中国是一个全能的政府，老百姓也配合，大家步调一致。
China is an all-round government, the common people also cooperate, everyone is in step.
这边是公民社会，必须要互动，所以出台政策需要均衡各方面的因素。
Civil society on this side has to interact, so policies need to be balanced across the board.
除非是到了极端的危急状态，那时采取政策水到渠成，但现在还没到时候。
Unless it is in a state of extreme crisis, the time has come to adopt policies, but not yet.
所以在中国国内很多人不太理解。
Therefore, many people in China do not understand.
等到疫情过后，大家也可以探讨一下，不同社会的管理模式，利与弊，是很复杂的。
After the epidemic, we can also discuss the different social management models, pros and cons, is very complex.
有人讲中国的防疫是生物学加政治学，其中要考虑到很多政治学和生物学的因素。
Some people say that China's epidemic prevention is biology plus political science, which should take into account a lot of political science and biological factors.
中国是希望打歼灭战，把病毒彻底消灭。
China is hoping to annihilate the virus completely.
西方比如英国和德国是“与病共舞”，打持久战。
In the West, Britain and Germany, for example, dance with the sick for a long time.
《财经》：英国政府现在还可以采取什么措施来加强其应对能力？陈铮鸣：政策角度已经进入防疫第二阶段。
Caijing: What more can the British government do now to strengthen its response capacity? Chen Shining: Policy perspective has entered the second phase of immunization.
目前政策的对与错，我们可能要两三个月之后才能进行科学评估。
It may take us two or three months to make a scientific assessment of what is right or wrong with current policy.
政府有政府的道理，但也有人提出不同的意见。
Governments have their reasons, but there are also people who disagree.
它是不是最合理的，谁也很难讲，要等到疫情过去。
It is not the most reasonable, and it is difficult to say until the epidemic is over.
不同的防疫模式也是如此，中国是一百米快跑，冲刺过线，但新的卷子又发下来。
The same is true for different epidemic prevention modes. China is a 100-meter sprint, sprint across the line, but new tests are issued.
英国则认为这是一场马拉松，先慢慢跑，不急于冲刺，因为看不到终点，所以现在如果采取某些措施为时过早。
Britain sees it as a marathon, running slowly rather than sprinting, because there is no end in sight, so it would be premature to take some action now.
我们能做的就是自己保护好自己。
All we can do is protect ourselves.
系列报道英国用4000万人感染换群体免疫，“轮盘赌注”还是明智之举？靠延缓策略，把疫情拖到夏天，缓解医院床位轮转的压力，进而在这一过程中控制疫情，面对激增的传染数字，真正要实施这一策略将非常困难。
In the UK, where 40 million infections are traded for mass immunization, "roulette bets" are the sensible way to control the epidemic in the process by slowing the epidemic into the summer, relieving the pressure on hospital beds, and making it difficult to implement the strategy in the face of surging infection figures.
疫情防控失败：李文亮所在医院陷落于死板遵从指令李文亮生前所在的武汉市中心医院，在此次新冠肺炎疫情中最先陷落，医护人员伤亡最重。
The epidemic failed: Li Wenliang's hospital was trapped in the Wuhan City Central Hospital, where Li Wenliang was living, and was the first to fall in the new crown pneumonia epidemic, with the heaviest casualties among hospital staff.
航空业关于飞行安全的“海恩法则”，同样适用于传染病防控，应该检视每一个细节。
The industry's "Hein Law" on flight safety, which applies equally to infectious disease control, should be examined in every detail.
香港吸取SARS经验，新冠抗疫医护人员零感染医疗卫生部门和研究人员提早入手，并在第一时间告知市民，同时吸取了SARS疫情时期的经验，对医院内感染尤为注意，正是此次中国香港特区抗击新冠疫情值得称道之处。
Drawing on the SARS experience, the Hong Kong SAR of China is to be commended for its efforts in fighting the new crown outbreak. The team started early and informed the public as soon as possible, learning from the SARS experience and paying particular attention to hospital-based infections.
互联网“战疫”：武汉最紧张一周问诊暴增，医保支付打通最后一环受疫情期间影响，多地医保快速开通互联网医疗支付业务，但这距离行业的春天或许还远，长期的“医保份额”划定仍是瓶颈，找到其他的买单方也在探索期。
Internet "epidemic": Wuhan's most intense week of consultations, health-care payments through the last ring affected by the epidemic, many health care services quickly open Internet medical payment business, but this may be far from the industry's spring, long-term "health care share" allocation is still the bottleneck, find other paying parties are also in the exploratory phase.
新冠病毒突变位点已增至149个，专家称近期变异不大世卫组织总干事说，新冠肺炎的传播效率低于流感，传播似乎并非由未患病的人所驱动。
The number of new crown virus mutations has risen to 149, and experts say the recent variation is small. The WHO director-General says pneumonia is less efficient than flu, and transmission does not appear to be driven by people who are not ill.
这意味着，其所引发的疫情是可以被遏制的。
This means that the outbreak it causes can be contained.
但近期疫情在全球蔓延，仍令各界人士深表担忧。
However, the recent global spread of the epidemic is still a source of deep concern.
中国疾控中心负责人：疫情全球大流行很难避免，应对迫在眉睫从趋势上看，新冠肺炎全球大流行可能无法避免，中国需一边打好国内阻击战，一边应对全球疫情带来的新风险。
(China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) (CDC) (China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) The global pandemic is very difficult to avoid. In terms of trends, a global outbreak of Newcastle Pneumonia may be inevitable.
首例新冠肺炎逝者解剖报告公布，有助改善患者临床诊疗方案新冠肺炎逝者遗体解剖已完成11例，据首份观察报告，肺部深处多粘液的情况，对临床治疗的化痰、排痰方案决策有帮助，对多器官的深入影响仍待进一步检测。
The first autopsy report on the deceased patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia was released. Eleven autopsies were performed on the deceased patients. According to the first observation report, the presence of mucus in the deep lungs was helpful for clinical decision-making on sputum control and phlegm drainage.
继“有效药”后又出“新冠疫苗”，文字游戏还是蹭热点？药物、疫苗的筛选这样一个万众期待的大事，更需要准确传递信息，以减少公众误解。
Following "effective drugs" and the emergence of a "new crown vaccine," word games or hot spots? The screening of drugs and vaccines is a much-anticipated event that requires accurate communication to reduce public misconceptions.
投资7.3亿的传染病网络直报系统因何失灵28天2020年1月24日以后，传染病网络直报系统在对各地的疫情信息上报、汇总，以及疫情整体的防控非常重要，但仍需进一步改善上报机制、监测系统过于繁复等问题。
After January 24, 2020, the Communicable Disease Network Direct Reporting System will be very important in reporting, aggregating, and controlling the epidemic as a whole, but reporting mechanisms and monitoring systems need to be further improved.
从冷板凳到聚光灯，氯喹等“鸡肋”药入选新冠肺炎诊疗方案阿比多尔、磷酸氯喹成为治疗新冠肺炎的试用药物，仍需要临床试验继续验证。
From cold stools to spotlights, chloroquine and other "chicken ribs" have been added to the new crown pneumonia treatment regimen - Abidor and chloroquine phosphate - as trial drugs for new crown pneumonia, which still needs to be validated in clinical trials.
为防止以后再落被动局面，即便疫情结束，相关药物临床试验也应继续。
Clinical trials of related drugs should continue even after the outbreak is over, in order to prevent a relapse in the future.
谁是第一个基因检测出的新冠病毒肺炎患者？第三方检测机构测出首例“冠状病毒未分型”后，仅电话通知了医院。
Who was the first person to be tested for coronavirus pneumonia? The first case of coronavirus untyped was detected by a third party and only the hospital was notified by telephone.
三天后，第二例报告单上写着“SARS冠状病毒”。
Three days later, the second report card said "SARS coronavirus."
那时没人想到，这是一种来势汹汹的新型冠状病毒发起的攻击。
At that time, no one thought that this was a new, aggressive attack of coronavirus.
两份新冠肺炎病理结果出炉，遗体解剖仍在紧张进行研究者正试图揭示新冠病毒的致病性、致死性机制，为临床治疗提供新依据，阶段结果是新冠病毒的致病特征与SARS相似，而进一步的结果或将由解剖揭开。
Researchers are trying to uncover the pathogenicity and deadly mechanism of the new crown virus and provide a new basis for clinical treatment. The result is that the new crown virus has similar pathogenic characteristics as SARS, and further results may be revealed by autopsy.
7万新冠病例分析：粗病死率2.3%，医务人员感染原因待查截至目前，还没有证据表明，此次新冠病毒疫情像SARS那样出现超级传播者事件，但医务人员感染以及防护失败的具体原因仍有待深入调查。
Up to now, there is no evidence that the outbreak of the new crown virus is like SARS, but the exact cause of the infection and its failure remains to be investigated.
从实验室到病房，阻击新冠病毒病毒的溯源、从动物到人的传播路径、人与人间的传播方式，这些研究还在进行中，抗病毒的疫苗和特效药的研发、验证，还只是初现曙光。
From laboratories to wards, research is still under way on the traceability of the new crown virus virus, the route of transmission from animal to human, and the modes of human-to-human transmission. The development and validation of antiviral vaccines and specific drugs is only beginning to dawn.
医护感染攀升，湖北医护扛过最艰难的一个月对病毒的未知、医疗物资缺乏，又因高强度的工作压力影响到免疫力，导致医护感染达到高峰。
Health-care infections climbed, with Hubei medical staff bearing the brunt of an unknown virus, a lack of medical supplies, and high levels of stress affecting immunity.
随着医护人员防护意识、对病毒认识的增强，相关防护措施到位，后期被感染的医护人员应该越来越少。
With the awareness of health care personnel protection, the enhancement of virus awareness, relevant protective measures in place, the late infected health care workers should be less and less.
新冠肺炎核酸检测“漏诊”：取样不规范，试剂盒质量不一新冠肺炎核酸检测阳性比率低，与病情发展阶段、采集流程是否规范、试剂盒的质量相关。
Nucleic acid detection "missed diagnosis": sampling is not standardized, kit quality is not a new crown pneumonia nucleic acid test rate is low, with the stage of disease development, whether the collection process is standardized, the quality of the kit.
为减少可能的“漏诊”，专家建议对不同厂商的试剂盒进行系统对比。
To reduce possible missed diagnoses, experts recommend a systematic comparison of test kits from different manufacturers.
治新冠肺炎：救治组推荐中药方，专家提醒西药不能停中科院院士陈凯先认为，中西医在医学理论、实践上，在对病毒和传染病的认识上有很大不同，完全可以中西结合、发挥各自所长。
The expert reminds the academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chen Kai, that Chinese and Western medicine in medical theory and practice, in the understanding of viruses and infectious diseases is very different, can fully integrate the West and the West and bring into play their respective strengths.
◤活粒为《财经》杂志 科技与健康团队 的新媒体项目，坚持独立、独家、独到，合作／爆料请联系：yingxin@caijing.com.cn◢《财经》旗下健康领域深度报道专栏扫一扫：。
Zheng Huo-Ge, a new media project for the Technology and Health Team of Caijing magazine, insists on independence, exclusivity and originality. Please contact yingxin @ caijing.com.cn to scan Caijing's in-depth reporting column on health.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访牛津教授陈铮鸣：英国防疫策略是近乎无情的理性。
Interview with Oxford professor Chen Shining: British epidemic prevention strategy is almost callous reason.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "活粒";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专访牛津教授陈铮鸣：英国防疫策略是近乎无情的理性";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "英国准备了更多举措，但这些措施在什么时候实施才能达到最大效果";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Britain has prepared many more measures, but when did they come into force to AT & quot;;
title: '中国疾控中心负责人：疫情全球大流行很难避免，应对迫在眉睫',。
At the CDC: A global pandemic is hard to avoid and should have AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '首例新冠肺炎逝者解剖报告公布，有助改善患者临床诊疗方案',。
The release of its first autopsy report on deceased patients with Newcomial Pneumonia has helped improve its clinical programme and service.
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '继“有效药”后又出“新冠疫苗”，文字游戏还是蹭热点？',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '投资7.3亿的传染病网络直报系统因何失灵28天',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '从冷板凳到聚光灯，氯喹等“鸡肋”药入选新冠肺炎诊疗方案',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '谁是第一个基因检测出的新冠病毒肺炎患者？',。
Who was the first person with gene-detected New Crown Virus pneumonia? & apos;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '两份新冠肺炎病理结果出炉，遗体解剖仍在紧张进行',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '7万新冠病例分析：粗病死率2.3%，医务人员感染原因待查',。
Case analysis: Crude death rate of 2.3 per cent, and cause of infection by medical personnel at & apos;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '从实验室到病房，阻击新冠病毒',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '新冠肺炎核酸检测“漏诊”：取样不规范，试剂盒质量不一',。
Nucleic acid test "missed diagnosis": Sampling not standard, and kit quality inconsistent with & apos;.
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '治新冠肺炎：救治组推荐中药方，专家提醒西药不能停',。
AT & P's service: The treatment group recommended a traditional Chinese medicine. Experts warned against & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '活粒',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="活粒";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; live & quot;;
