亲历美国疫情转折，口罩一夜逆袭，中美防疫天差地别。
The experience of the United States epidemic turned, the mask night attack, China and the United States epidemic prevention.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
编者按：今天有两个新消息：好消息是，特朗普没感染，坏消息是，前一条消息并没有让美国人松一口气。
Editor's Note: Two new news today: The good news is that Trump is uninfected, and the bad news is that the former did not give Americans much relief.
相反，这两天美国的疫情紧张程度骤增，而这种紧张又通过各种社交媒体实时地传播到世界各地。
On the contrary, the last two days have seen a sharp rise in tensions in the United States, which in turn have spread in real time around the world through various social media.
美国内部对于特朗普政府的疫情反应和防疫措施有不同的看法。
There are different views within the US about the Trump administration's response to the epidemic and its response to the epidemic.
当地时间3月13日，美国《纽约时报》科学与健康的记者Donald McNeil在电视节目中谈到中国的疫情防控，在6分钟内条理清晰地介绍了中国的检疫流程，从如何隔离到彻底打破传播链，以及如何保护医院资源不崩溃，“在战胜疫情上，中国已经取得了巨大的成功，不断地检测、检测、检测，找到病毒”。
Donald McNeil, a science and health reporter for The New York Times, spoke on China's quarantine program on March 13, describing the country's quarantine process in six minutes, from how to isolate to completely break the transmission chain and how to protect hospital resources from collapse.
而由于美国在世界政治和经济中的特殊地位，这里的疫情防控备受全世界的关注，可谓牵一发而动全身。
Because of the special position of the United States in world politics and economy, the disease prevention and control is concerned all over the world.
同时，在各国的政要和百姓对各种防疫措施的利弊争执不休之际，大家也都在看美国人怎么想，怎么做。
At the same time, as politicians and citizens around the world debate the pros and cons of various preventive measures, everyone is watching what Americans think and do.
《财经》杂志常驻华盛顿记者金焱用她的亲身体验，记录下了这几天上至联邦政府，下至普通百姓的心态变化，为我们描绘出了一幅美国在紧急状态下的真实图景。
Kim, a Washington-based reporter for Caijing, used her personal experience to document changes in mentality from the federal government down to the general public these days, portraying a true picture of the United States under a state of emergency.
文| 金焱编辑|苏琦有人曾告诉我，好的记者要随时洞察社会情绪的变化。
Yan Jin Editing & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Someone once told me that good journalists should always be aware of changing social moods.
3月13日，美国总统特朗普宣布国家紧急状态，承诺联邦政府将全力以赴，并与私营公司合作，为更多受到冠状肺炎疫情影响的美国人提供救助，并开放最多达500亿美元的资金渠道。
On March 13, US President Trump declared a state of emergency, pledging that the federal government would do its utmost, and work with private companies, to provide relief to more Americans affected by the outbreak of coronary pneumonia, and to open up to $50 billion in funding.
他宣布之际，美国50个州中的48个州和哥伦比亚特区已报告病例近1800个，至少41人死亡。
His announcement comes as 48 of the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia have reported nearly 1,800 cases and at least 41 deaths.
3月13日，在美国华盛顿白宫，美国总统特朗普（中）出席记者会时正式宣布“国家紧急状态”。
On March 13, at the White House in Washington, DC, US President Donald Trump (middle) officially declared a "state of emergency" at a press conference.
他说，此举旨在让美国联邦政府全力投入到抗击新冠肺炎疫情的努力中。
He said the move is intended to get the federal government fully committed to the fight against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
这项举措将释放500亿美元资金，帮助各州和地方政府应对疫情。
The move would free up $50 billion to help state and local governments deal with the epidemic.
图/新华美国高调进入国家紧急状态，实际上已经酝酿了几天。
Photo / Xinhua The United States has been in a state of emergency for several days.
宣布进入全国紧急状态，意味着联邦政府能动用更多资源抗击疫情，能作出更灵活而迅速的应对。
The declaration of a state of emergency means that the federal government will be able to use more resources to fight the epidemic and respond more flexibly and quickly.
总统也可以紧急状态之名，执行更严苛的防疫措施。
The president may also impose more stringent preventive measures in the name of a state of emergency.
但特朗普对此却踌躇再三。
But Trump has hesitated.
知情人说他有自己的担心：一是这等于自己打脸，他此前一直在公开场合淡化疫情，把冠状肺炎疫情与季节性流感相提并论；二是他担心可能引发经济上的负面影响，尤其是华尔街对疫情形势的担忧。
People close to him say he has his own fears: first, he has played down the epidemic in public, comparing it to seasonal flu, and second, that he fears possible negative economic consequences, particularly on Wall Street.
在各种纠结后，特朗普还是援引了1988年实施的《斯塔福德法》宣布全国紧急状态。
Trump has invoked the Stafford Act, enacted in 1988, to declare a state of national emergency after all the hassles.
该法律将允许联邦紧急事务管理署（FEMA）向州和地方政府提供联邦援助，并协调全国的应对措施。
The law will allow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to provide federal assistance to state and local governments and coordinate the national response.
全国紧急状态最常用于自然灾害事件，但也用于疾病爆发。
National emergencies are most commonly used in natural disaster events, but also in disease outbreaks.
在特朗普反复权衡之际，美国的社会情绪在短短一两天内骤然发生了变化。
As Trump ponders, America's social mood has suddenly changed in just a day or two.
因为时差，世界卫生组织宣布新冠肺炎疫情“具有全球大流行病特征”的消息，是在3月12日传到美国人的耳朵里的。
Because of the time difference, the World Health Organization announced that the outbreak of pneumonia had "global pandemic characteristics," which spread to Americans on March 12.
对大多数中国人、对很多医疗卫生体系的人来说，这一迟来的大流行病的称号，此时说与不说，意义不大。
For most Chinese, and for many in the health-care system, the title of the late pandemic makes little sense to say no.
但对于大多数美国人来说，这代表了疫情与舆情的拐点。
But for most Americans, it represents an inflection point between the epidemic and public opinion.
我的美国朋友圈画风突变，都开始谈如何保持安全距离或自我隔离——想象一下，一天前所有人还在秀吃、秀喝、秀恩爱、秀宠物，转瞬间都崩起脸来谈疫情。
My friends in the United States have suddenly changed their painting styles, all talking about how to stay safe or isolate themselves - imagine that just a day ago everyone was on the show, drinking, showing off their love, showing their pets, and suddenly falling apart to talk about the epidemic.
而且不只是自己说，每个人都严肃得像新闻发言人一样呼吁美国民众警惕疫情。
And not just by saying that everyone was serious enough to appeal to the American public, like a press spokesman, to be alert to the epidemic.
实际上，美国民众的警惕性确实陡然提高了几个层级。
Indeed, American vigilance has risen sharply at several levels.
“社交疏离”（social distancing）摇身一变成为推特上的热词，使用频率飙升。
"Social alienation" has become a buzzword on Twitter, and the frequency of its use has soared.
花旗集团前全球外汇主管、深数宏观（DeepMacro）的联合创始人兼CEO杰弗瑞·杨（Jeffrey Young）和我聊起这些，他这样解释说：美国人容易过度自信，也容易过度紧张（overpanic）。
As Jeffrey Young, Citigroup's former head of global exchange and co-founder and CEO of Deep Macro, explains, 'Americans tend to be overconfident and overstressed.
在专卖有机食品的Mom’s Market，3月12日晚的关门时间，所有购物的人已经从商场的一侧七转八转排到商场的另一侧，这种场面很多工作人员也是第一次看到。
At Mom's Market, which specializes in organic food, on the night of March 12, when all shoppers have been shuttling from one side of the store to the other side of the store, the first time many workers have seen it.
图：金焱美疫的剧情进展太快其实像埃博拉、禽流感这样的流行病袭来时，所有的人都会很焦虑。
Photo: Yan Jin, the Yim epidemic is progressing too fast In fact, when an epidemic like Ebola or avian influenza strikes, everyone is anxious.
但没有任何传染病像冠状肺炎疫情这样能够长期占据全球新闻的版面。
But no infectious disease has long dominated the global news like the outbreak of coronary pneumonia.
LexisNexis数据显示，今年1月冠状肺炎疫情暴发的第一个月，有超过41000篇英语印刷的新闻文章中提到了“冠状肺炎疫情”一词，它出现在将近19000篇文章的大标题中。
According to Lexis Nexis, the term "coronary pneumonia" appeared in nearly 19,000 headlines in more than 41,000 English-language news articles in the first month of the outbreak in January.
相比之下，埃博拉暴发的第一个月，即2018年8月，只有大约1800篇英语印刷的新闻文章提到了“埃博拉”一词，它出现在约700篇文章的大标题中。
By contrast, in August 2018, the first month of the Ebola outbreak, only about 1,800 English-language press articles referred to the word "Ebola," which appeared in the headlines of some 700 articles.
我不记得当时在美国任何人和我有过任何关于“埃博拉”话题的交谈，即使现在提“埃博拉”，也无非是为了对比和解读“冠状肺炎疫情”。
I don't remember anyone in the United States talking to me about Ebola, even now, just to compare and interpret the "coronal pneumonia epidemic."
致死率是冠状肺炎疫情几十倍的埃博拉，得到的关注度却不到冠状肺炎疫情的百分之三左右。
The fatality rate is dozens of times the outbreak of coronary pneumonia, but received less attention than the coronary pneumonia epidemic of about three percent.
后来证实，美国医疗体系的专业人士们忧心忡忡。
It turned out that health-care professionals in the United States were worried.
3月12日，美国国内三个最大的医疗组织机构致信副总统彭斯，要求特朗普总统宣布冠状肺炎疫情为国家紧急状态。
On March 12, America's three largest health-care organizations sent a letter to Vice President Burns asking President Trump to declare a state of emergency.
这三个组织机构分别代表了美国的医院体系、护士体系和医生体系。
These three organizations represent the American hospital system, the nurse system and the doctor system.
此举引发惊呼，因这一举动实属史无前例。
The move was greeted with alarm because it was unprecedented.
对疫情更显性的焦虑情绪体现在市场上。
The more overt anxiety about the outbreak is reflected in the market.
3月12日当天，三大股指收盘均跌入技术性熊市。
On March 12, the three main indexes closed in a technical bear market.
在刚经历完历史上第二次熔断之后，美股当天再度熔断。
After a second meltdown in its history, U. S. stocks melted again on the same day.
疫情在美国有一个多月剧情都进展缓慢，到了3月12日，剧情速度让很多人膛目结舌、跟不上节奏。
The situation in the United States has been slow for more than a month, and by March 12 the tempo had left many rattle untamed and out of step.
当天，好莱坞影星汤姆·汉克斯及夫人在澳大利亚确诊感染新冠病毒、NBA球季中止。
Hollywood star Tom Hanks and his wife were diagnosed with the new crown virus in Australia and the NBA season was over.
邻国加拿大总理特鲁多面对超级棘手的问题——妻子确诊感染病毒。
Neighbouring Canada's Prime Minister Narendra Trudeau faces the thorny issue of his wife being diagnosed with the virus.
当然小道消息加恶搞也不会放过美国总统，说特朗普中招、并成为超级传播者的消息和截图四处传播。
Of course, rumors and jokes will spare the president of the United States, as rumors and clips of Trump's actions and his emergence as a super-communicator spread everywhere.
在华盛顿，从白宫到最高法院、国会大楼以及国会办公室都纷纷宣布暂停向公众开放。
In Washington, the White House to the Supreme Court, the Capitol building and the offices of Congress have all been closed to the public.
华盛顿引以为豪的史密森尼博物馆和国家动物园当天也宣布从周六开始暂停向公众开放。
The Smithsonian Museum and the National Zoo, both of which Washington is proud of, also closed to the public on Saturday.
在国会陆续把各种听证会也取消后，我在朋友圈说，中国敢取消二会，美国就敢取消听证会。
After congressional hearings were canceled, I told friends that if China ever canceled the second meeting, the United States would dare to cancel the hearing.
很多人打趣说，美国敢取消大选吗？实际上民主党总统参选人拜登、桑德斯本周日要举行辩论，但由于疫情蔓延，辩论会只能在没有现场观众的情况下进行。
Many joked that the United States dared to call off the election.In fact, Democratic presidential contenders Biden Saunders are debating this Sunday, but because of the epidemic, the debate will have to be held without a live audience.
不知道他们面对空空荡荡的观众席，激情是否会打折。
I don't know if they will discount their passion in the face of an empty auditorium.
更震撼的是，路易斯安娜州则宣布延迟举行总统大选初选。
Even more striking, Louisiana announced a delay in holding the presidential primaries.
在纽约，百老汇12日则宣布会“立即”暂停所有演出。
In New York, Broadway announced on the 12th that all performances would be suspended "immediately."
“立即”两个字引发了大量的讨论：人们感慨它来得太突然，来得太极端；猜想它之后的一系列打击太大——仅在一周前，旅游业为纽约市带来了超过2670万美元的收入。
The word "immediately" has generated a great deal of discussion: people lament that it came too suddenly, too extreme; and suspect that it was followed by a series of blows - tourism brought in more than $26.7 million to New York City just a week ago.
与之遥相呼应的是，好莱坞环球影城和迪士尼当天宣布关闭。
In response, Hollywood Universal Studios and Disney announced the closure of the day.
与更多人切身利益相关的是，人们四处寻找关于检测病毒的信息，然后发现美国的城市都面临同样的问题：没有能力让每一个想要检测的人接受检测。
What is at stake for more people is that people look around for information about testing for the virus and then find that cities in the United States face the same problem: the inability to get everyone who wants to be tested tested.
社会学家Robert Gordon就沮丧地和我说，美国各个权威机构在检测病毒方面的信息互相冲突，这样的结果就是制造混乱和迷惑。
Robert Gordon, a sociologist, told me in dismay that conflicting information from various US authorities on testing for the virus had created confusion and confusion.
半个月前的一天，在纽约的杰弗瑞·杨晚上快半夜时去超市买东西。
One day half a month ago, Jeffery Young went to the supermarket near midnight in New York City.
那时美国还算风平浪静。
The United States was calm at the time.
他开玩笑和我说是应对疫情囤积食品，而他“囤积”的“大件”是中国人所说的洋酒。
He joked that he was responding to the epidemic by hoarding food, and that the "big thing" he "hoarded" was what the Chinese call foreign wine.
在特朗普宣布全国紧急状态后，他给我发短信说，洋酒有三个用处：当市场大跌时，喝酒解愁；当市场上涨时，举杯庆祝；当市场上所有的消毒剂都卖光了，它聊可替代消毒。
After Trump declared a state of emergency, he sent me a text message saying that alcohol served three purposes: drinking when the market plummeted; drinking to cheer when markets rose; and talking instead of disinfecting when all the disinfectants were sold out.
他揶揄道，买洋酒太明智，今天市场上涨，可以举杯庆祝——杰弗瑞·杨说的是，特朗普宣布“国家紧急状态”后，美国三大股指均涨超9%，主要股指尾盘强势拉升，道指飙升近2000点。
Buying liquor is too smart, he said, and today the market is rising to a toast -- Jeffery Young says, after Trump declared a "state of emergency," all three U.S. stock indexes rose more than 9%, major indexes pulled up strongly, and the Dow soared nearly 2,000 points.
三大股指均录得2008年金融危机以来的最大单日涨幅。
All three indexes recorded their biggest one-day gains since the 2008 financial crisis.
但洋酒买便宜了味道就很糟，杰弗瑞·杨说，最佳选择是用它来消毒。
But wine tastes bad when it's cheap, says Jeffery Young. The best option is to disinfect it.
消毒水在美国市场被抢购一空已有段时间。
Disinfectant has been snapped up in the U. S. market for some time.
大型超市Giant误发消息，消毒用品会在13日早6点上货，引发华府的一个Giant清晨排长队。
Giant, a large supermarket, misinformed that disinfection supplies would be delivered at 6 am on the 13th, triggering a long morning queue at Giant in Washington.
最终人们只好买各种材料自制消毒水 图/金焱口罩逆袭在迄今为止我整个的美国经历中，口罩成为生活中的话题，只有一次。
Eventually people had to buy a variety of materials, self-made disinfectant drawings / Yan-masks. Throughout my experience in the United States to date, masks have been a topic of discussion in my life, only once.
那是二月的一个周日，大家早早约好晚上去F君家里玩。
It was a Sunday in February, and everyone had an early engagement to visit Mr. F. 's house.
走前，因为看书我错过了一大堆未接电话和未读短信，花了几分钟才明白来龙去脉：一个美国女孩儿临时在群里告假：感冒一直没好，不确定能否赴宴。
It took me a few minutes to figure out what had happened. An American girl was on temporary leave in the group: she had a bad cold and wasn't sure if I would be able to come to the party.
F君是那种幽默又慷慨的美国绅士，直接回复说，就是感冒了也一定要来！F君的话激发了十几个参加聚会的美国人的不安。
Gentlemen F is the kind of American gentleman who is so humorous and generous that he will come when he has a cold, and his words have excited the uneasiness of a dozen or so Americans at the party.
一个搞医的颇为挖苦地说，来成，别忘了戴口罩。
One doctor said sarcastically, Come on, don't forget to wear a mask.
其他人则把不安推给了我。
The others blamed me for the uneasiness.
他们共同的担忧是：本来就是流感季节，又有冠状病毒疫情在其他国家蔓延，不希望被美国女孩儿传染。
Their common concern is that this is the flu season, there is a coronavirus epidemic in other countries, do not want to be infected by girls in the United States.
要么我给美国女孩儿找口罩（以防她不戴），要么我劝服女孩儿不要来，否则他们没法放心地赴宴。
Either I find a mask for an American girl (in case she doesn't wear one), or I try to persuade the girl not to come, or they won't be able to go to the party with confidence.
以前，我们中间一个美籍俄罗斯女子体味太重，又不好意思当面戳穿。
Once upon a time, one of our Russian-American women smelled too heavy and embarrassed to prick her face.
无奈之下我和她提及体味扰民的事儿，委婉含蓄，既顾全了她的尊严，也化解了别人被熏的苦恼。
However, I and she mentioned the body odor disturbing things, euphemism, not only take care of her dignity, but also to solve the affliction of other people smoked.
一战成名，之后所有人有抱怨时，我都被推到最前线。
When World War I became famous and everyone complained, I was pushed to the front line.
我翻找了一下，自己还真有个口罩，是几年前在国内防雾霾用的。
I rummaged for a moment, but I did have a mask that I used years ago to prevent haze at home.
但强迫别人戴口罩根本就不可能。
But forcing someone else to wear a mask is out of the question.
最后我花了一个小时劝美国女孩儿在家休息，劝F君不要坚持，并安抚其他人按时参加晚宴。
Finally, I spent an hour persuading the American girls to stay at home, urging him not to insist, and comforting others to attend the dinner on time.
口罩这种生活小插曲的角色，在美国新增病例直线上升并推波成为惊天大浪后，陡然变得复杂。
The role of the mask, a life episode, has suddenly become more complicated as new cases skyrocket in the US and send waves into the wild.
自疫情在武汉暴发起来就无比紧张，到武汉新增病例首次降至5例仍然无比紧张的，是美国华人。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic in Wuhan on the incomparable tension, to Wuhan for the first time new cases fell to five cases is still extremely tense, is the Chinese-Americans.
我被拉进一个华人的地区抗疫群，里面探讨的各种话题从本地新增病例，到是否在家上班，到囤货要不要囤枪，当然更多的是戴不戴口罩的灵魂追问。
I was dragged into a Chinese area to fight epidemics on topics ranging from new cases locally, to whether to work at home, to hoarding weapons and, of course, to soul-searching without masks.
一个美国华人和我打趣说，大家都是高知，但有兵荒马乱情结。
One Chinese American joked with me that everyone knows a lot, but they have a complex of soldiers and horses.
我在专栏里描述疫情降临大华府后，很多人问我，需不需要从国内寄口罩过来？我的回复一律是：不需要，怕被打——亚裔“戴口罩而被打”不时在新闻中出现，后来还有新闻说，亚裔没戴口罩被打……。
When I wrote about the epidemic in Washington, many people asked me if I needed to send masks from across the country. My reply was: No, I didn't need to be beaten - Asians wearing masks regularly appear on the news, and later news that Asians are not wearing masks...
因口罩问题而被打的案例极少，说穿了它不过是种族歧视者找到新的发泄口罢了，偏偏有人将它归为中西文化不同。
There are very few cases of beatings over masks, which, to put it bluntly, are nothing more than a new outlet for racism, which some would classify as different from Chinese and Western culture.
我不记得中国文化的博大精深中有戴口罩的文化分枝。
I don't remember the great depth of Chinese culture with its mask-wearing cultural branches.
至于西方文化为何排斥口罩，我四处找西方人问询，没人承认这和文化传承有半点关系。
As for why Western culture rejects masks, I asked westerners everywhere, and no one admitted that it had anything to do with cultural heritage.
不去扯文化差异，更实用是从防病角度来看这个问题。
Instead of dragging cultural differences, it is more practical to look at the problem from a disease prevention perspective.
亚洲人普遍相信，冠状肺炎疫情传染性强、潜伏时间长，阻断其扩散的重点就是隔绝其传播途径、由此戴口罩是最有效的手段之一。
It is widely believed in Asia that the epidemic of coronary pneumonia is highly contagious and latent for a long time, and that the key to stopping its spread is to isolate its route of transmission, and wearing a mask is one of the most effective means.
但大多数美国人告诉我，他们无非是遵从美国公共卫生官员的宣传，戴口罩没用，只有出现症状的人、或者是已经生病的人才需要戴口罩。
But most Americans tell me that they are simply following the advice of US public health officials that wearing masks is useless and that only people with symptoms, or those who are already sick, need to wear them.
事实真相没那么简单。
The truth is not that simple.
美国对外关系委员会全球卫生高级研究员黄严忠给我讲了他的故事：他感冒刚好，经常咳嗽。
Huang Yanzhong, a senior researcher on global health at the United States Council on Foreign Relations, told me his story: He caught a cold and often coughed.
前两天他应邀参加国会的听证会，一路从纽约赶到华盛顿，在火车上戴了口罩，本想这对同行乘客是礼貌之举，同时是个“请远离”的信号。
He was invited to a congressional hearing the other day and traveled from New York to Washington to wear a mask on a train that was supposed to be polite for fellow passengers and a sign of "stay away."
但是很快就有人坐在他旁边，因为他们喜欢靠窗的位置。
But soon someone sat next to him because they liked to sit by the window.
这很快被逆转了。
This was quickly reversed.
3月12日当天，我的美国朋友中间流传着一篇文章：一些专家呼吁，全球的卫生政策制定者须重新考虑口罩的作用。
On March 12, an article circulated among my American friends called on global health policymakers to rethink the role of masks.
这个在权威医学杂志《柳叶刀》上发表的文章指出，一些公共卫生研究者相信，冠状肺炎病毒已在“挑战常规的遏制策略”——那些患者在感染初期可能没有症状，或只有轻微的症状。
The paper, published in The Lancet, a leading medical journal, notes that some public health researchers believe that coronary pneumonia is already "challenging conventional containment strategies" - patients who may have no symptoms at the beginning of an infection, or have only mild symptoms.
传统上，人们戴口罩以防止病人与健康人间的接触进而传染，但如果有无症状都戴口罩，这也会通过控制病毒源头保护人们。
Traditionally, people wear masks to prevent contact between patients and healthy people, but if they do not have symptoms they wear masks, which also protects people by controlling the source of the virus.
仔细留心街上的行人、出租司机和超市的人群，我发现12日当天，大华府地区非亚裔人中带口罩的数量要远远多过亚裔人口，这是我第一次有这样的发现。
Careful attention to pedestrians, taxi drivers and supermarket crews in the streets revealed that on the 12th, the number of non-Asians wearing masks in the Greater Washington area was much higher than the Asian population, the first time I've found this out.
罗伯特·亨德勒（Robert Hendler）原来在Parkland医院任副院长与首席质量官，现在是美国得克萨斯州医院协会（Texas Hospital Association）首席医疗官，同时是得克萨斯大学西南医学中心临床教授。
Robert Hendler, a former vice-president and chief quality officer at Parkland Hospital, is now chief medical officer at the Texas Hospital Association and a clinical professor at the Southwestern Medical Center at the University of Texas.
他给了我非常专业的回答。
He gave me a very professional answer.
他直言不讳地说，美国口罩短缺，为了避免大众囤积口罩，公共卫生官员建议只有患病者用口罩，减少病毒传播，同时也是为节省有限的资源。
He bluntly said there was a shortage of face masks in the United States and, to avoid a public face mask hoarding, public health officials suggested using masks to reduce the spread of the virus and save limited resources.
如果冠状肺炎疫情在美国变为更大范围的流行，且感染人数迅速增加，那么减少人与人之间传播的有效方法就是戴口罩。
If the outbreak of coronary pneumonia becomes more widespread in the United States and the number of infections increases rapidly, the most effective way to reduce human-to-human transmission is to wear masks.
在政治层面上，除了在杂志封面上给特朗普带口罩的政治寓意，口罩短缺也让人们看到美国政治家的短视。
On the political front, in addition to the political message of wearing Trump's mask on the magazine's cover, the shortage of masks has brought to light the shortsightedness of US politicians.
这场公共卫生危机显示出，在过去的20年中，联邦预算无法应付愈来愈多的威胁支出，包括恐怖袭击、天灾和致命感染疾病。
The public health crisis has shown that over the past two decades, the federal budget has been unable to cope with an increasing number of threat expenditures, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters and deadly infectious diseases.
《华盛顿邮报》指出，2009年美国H1N1流感暴发，促使美国最大幅度地布署“全国战略储备”(Strategic National Stockpile)，事后证明，这也是联邦政府最后一次大量储存药物与医疗补给品。
The Washington Post noted that the 2009 H1N1 flu outbreak in the US prompted the country's largest deployment of its Strategic National Stockpile, which proved to be the federal government's last large stockpile of medicines and medical supplies.
美国公共卫生系统为了控制预算而逐渐降低库存量，并期待疫情发生时私人产业能迅速供应；由于每年只有有限的6亿元预算，此后联邦政府就未大规模重新添置医疗储备，包括N-95口罩在内。
The US public-health system is gradually reducing stocks in order to control its budget, and expects a rapid supply of private industry in the event of an epidemic; with a limited annual budget of $600 million, the federal government has not significantly restocked its medical reserves, including N-95 masks.
美国医疗卫生系统一年需要35亿个口罩，而美国目前储量只有所需的1%。
The US health-care system needs 3.5 billion masks a year, and the United States now has just 1% of what it needs.
罗伯特·亨德勒总结说，这就是风险与收益（risk versus benefit）的对垒过程：如果每个人都戴N-95口罩，疫情传播的风险会迅速下降。
This, concludes Robert Hendler, is the countervailing process of risk versus benefit: if everyone wears an N-95 mask, the risk of the outbreak spreading will decline rapidly.
由于现在美国的病例数相对较少，尚未达到要广泛使用口罩的必要性，这样戴口罩的益处就无法体现出来，这与中国疫情的现状有所不同。
Because the number of cases in the United States is relatively small, the need for widespread use of masks has not yet been reached, so that the benefits of wearing masks are not apparent, unlike the current situation in China.
13日中午我参加了一个智库的电话会讨论疫情。
At noon on the 13th I attended a telephone meeting of a think tank to discuss the epidemic.
谈到口罩，智库的专家说，N-95口罩主要是中国生产，美国存大的缺口。
Speaking about masks, think-tank experts say the N-95 masks are made in China, leaving a big gap in the U. S.
我转告给Robert Gordon，他感慨说，我们太依赖中国了。
I told Robert Gordon, who lamented that we were too dependent on China.
作者为《财经》驻美记者责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
The writer is with Caijing's American correspondent. & nbsp; Huang Duanhuang @ cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
亲历美国疫情转折，口罩一夜逆袭，中美防疫天差地别。
The experience of the United States epidemic turned, the mask night attack, China and the United States epidemic prevention.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "亲历美国疫情转折，口罩一夜逆袭，中美防疫天差地别";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "由于美国在世界政治和经济中的特殊地位，这里的疫情防控备受全世界的关注，可谓牵一发而动全身。
var msg _ desc = & quot; given its special political and economic position in the world, prevention and control of the disease has attracted worldwide attention and attention.
同时，在各国的政要和百姓对各种防疫措施的利弊争执不休之际，大家也都在看美国人怎么想，怎么做。
At the same time, as politicians and citizens around the world debate the pros and cons of various preventive measures, everyone is watching what Americans think and do.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情放大三星危机，越南基地缺人缺料缺协同',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '飞鹤营收仅为蒙牛1/7，市值何以反超',。
AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '石油巨头搞副业，“油卖菜”会是一门好生意吗',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '走出方舱医院，不等于回到正常生活 | 武汉现场',。
Running out of the cabin hospital did not constitute a return to normal life and AT & amp; apos; Wuhan.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
