西班牙“封国”抗疫：4700万民众行动受限。
Spain Seals Plague: 47 Million People Limited in Movement.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
从3月14日开始，西班牙进入国家紧急状态。
From 14 March, Spain went into a state of emergency.
根据西班牙宪法，国家紧急状态最多可持续15天，此后议会需要讨论并决定是否延长。
According to the Spanish Constitution, a state of emergency may last up to 15 days, after which Parliament needs to discuss and decide whether to extend it.
多位接受《财经》记者采访的西班牙人称，他们现在只能祈求西班牙不会成为第二个意大利2020年3月14日，西班牙巴塞罗那街头的一幅“山姆大叔”的漫画，写着“I want you to stay home（我希望你待在家里）”的字样。
Several Spaniards interviewed by Caijing said they could only hope that Spain would not become the second Italian caricature of "Uncle Sam" on the streets of Barcelona, Spain, on March 14, 2020, with the words "I want you to stay at home.
图/法新文|《财经》记者金焱发自华盛顿 编辑|苏琦世界卫生组织（WHO）总干事谭德塞公开宣称，欧洲现在是全球新冠病毒大流行病的“震中”后不久，欧洲国家相继报告感染和死亡人数急剧上升。
Yan Jin, a reporter at Caijing, China's editor and director-general of the World Health Organization, openly declared that Europe is now the "epicentre" of the global new-crown-virus pandemic, with European countries reporting a sharp rise in infections and deaths.
3月14日，西班牙成为意大利之后欧洲第二大疫情中心，该国政府宣布进入紧急状态，限制民众外出。
On March 14, Spain became Europe's second-largest outbreak center after Italy, and the government declared a state of emergency, restricting people from going out.
3月13日，意大利创下了单日死亡人数最高纪录，24小时死亡250人，增幅25%，成为全球至今最高单日增幅。
Italy recorded its highest one-day death toll on March 13, with 250 deaths in 24 hours, a 25 percent increase, the highest one-day increase yet.
迄今，意大利总计死亡1266人，感染总人数为17660人。
So far, 1,266 people have died in Italy, bringing the total number of infections to 17,660.
也是在3月13日，西班牙报告的死亡人数上升了50%，达到120人；感染人数增加到4231人。
Also on 13 March, the reported death toll in Spain rose by 50 per cent, to 120; the number of infections increased to 4,231.
西班牙卫生部3月14日发布的数据更为惊人，截至当地时间当天中午，西班牙新冠肺炎确诊病例5753例，单日新增1544例。
The Ministry of Health on March 14 released more alarming figures, as of noon local time, Spain's new crown pneumonia confirmed 5753 cases, a day new 1544 cases.
另据西班牙首相办公室消息，西班牙首相桑切斯的妻子贝戈尼娅确诊感染新冠病毒。
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Antonio Sánchez has been diagnosed with the new crown virus, according to the Spanish prime minister's office.
西班牙首相桑切斯3月14日宣布，为遏制新冠肺炎疫情蔓延，西班牙将在全国实施为期15天的“封城”措施。
Spain will implement a 15-day nationwide "cordon sanguinis" campaign to contain the spread of the new crown pneumonia, Spanish Prime Minister Jose Antonio Sánchez announced on March 14.
在经过长达7小时的内阁会议后，西班牙政府决定：除工作、就医或购买生活必需品等特定情况外，全国近4700万民众禁止走出家门。
After a seven-hour Cabinet meeting, the Spanish government decided to ban nearly 47 million people from leaving their homes, except in certain circumstances such as work, medical treatment or the purchase of necessities.
封锁令包括所有居民都必须留在家里，除了买食物、去药房、医院或工作及其它紧急事情外。
The closure order includes the obligation for all residents to stay at home, except to buy food, go to a pharmacy, a hospital or a job and other urgent matters.
至此，从3月14日开始，西班牙进入国家紧急状态。
A state of emergency has thus been in force in Spain since 14 March.
根据西班牙宪法，国家紧急状态最多可持续15天，此后议会需要讨论并决定是否延长。
According to the Spanish Constitution, a state of emergency may last up to 15 days, after which Parliament needs to discuss and decide whether to extend it.
多位接受《财经》记者采访的西班牙人称，他们现在只能祈求西班牙不会成为第二个意大利。
Several Spaniards interviewed by Caijing said they could only hope that Spain would not become a second Italy.
在马德里的博士后研究员Manuel Sánchez Cánovas告诉《财经》记者，马德里是西班牙的重灾区，左翼政府对疫情没有充分重视，出于政治考虑，一周前还允许各种大型活动继续进行。
Manuel Sánchez Cánovas, a post-doctoral researcher in Madrid, told Caijing that Madrid was a major disaster area in Spain, that the left-wing government did not pay enough attention to the epidemic and that political considerations allowed major events to continue a week ago.
旅游业、酒店业会受到很大的打击，他们占到西班牙经济的13%还多。
Tourism and hotels, which account for more than 13 per cent of the Spanish economy, will be hit hard.
西班牙政府强调将“调动国家所有资源，更好地保护全体公民的健康”。
The Spanish government stressed that it would "mobilize all the country's resources to better protect the health of all its citizens."
这意味着，该国将可以限制人员流动，下令疏散人群，禁止市民进入某些地方，并对企业进行长达15天的干预。
This means that the country will be able to restrict the movement of people, order the evacuation of people, ban citizens from certain places and intervene in businesses for up to 15 days.
桑切斯认为，在封城后下周西班牙确诊病例恐怕会攀升一倍以上，突破1万大关。
Sánchez believes the number of confirmed cases in Spain is likely to more than double next week, surpassing the 10,000 mark.
他呼吁民众勤洗手、少出门加强防疫。
He urged people to wash their hands frequently and go out less to prevent diseases.
在宣布“封城”之后，《财经》记者采访的多位西班牙人都表示对前景比较乐观，在上海工作的建筑师Bruno Rodriguez对《财经》记者表示，西班牙医疗水准较高，相关医疗设备也很先进，是世界公共医疗卫生体系最好的国家之一。
After the announcement, several Spaniards interviewed by Caijing said they were optimistic about the outlook, with architect Bruno Rodriguez, who works in Shanghai, telling Caijing that Spain has one of the best public health systems in the world, with high standards of health care and sophisticated medical equipment.
3月14日，西班牙人以特殊的方式表达了他们对“封城”的回应。
On March 14, the Spaniards expressed their response to the "blockade" in a special way.
在社交网络上，人们发起了向医护人员致敬的倡议。
On social networks, initiatives have been launched to pay tribute to health-care workers.
当晚10时，被限制在家的西班牙人响应号召，或打开窗子，或站在露台上、吹口哨、热烈鼓掌，打破了封城决定带来的寂静。
At 10 p.m., the Spaniards, confined to their homes, answered the call, either by opening the windows or standing on the terrace, whistling and clapping enthusiastically, thus breaking the silence brought about by the closure decision.
总理桑切斯强调说，医护人员在西班牙的这一历史关键时刻是抵御冠状病毒的最好屏障。
Prime Minister Sánchez stressed that medical staff in Spain at this critical moment in history is the best defense against coronavirus.
回顾疫情在西班牙的蔓延，其最终沦陷只用了一周的时间。
Looking back at the spread of the epidemic in Spain, it took only a week for it to fall.
早在当地时间1月31日晚，西班牙戈梅拉岛（LA GOMERA）确诊了一名冠状肺炎感染病例。
A case of coronary pneumonia was confirmed on the Spanish island of La Gomera on the night of January 31, local time.
虽然病毒敲开了西班牙的大门，但有两个因素让西班牙人比较放松，一是这名患者是德国国籍；二是患者接受隔离和治疗的戈梅拉岛是西班牙加那利群岛中的一个岛屿，那是德国人与英国人的度假圣地，最主要的是这个岛距离首都马德里有2000公里远。
Although the virus opened the door to Spain, two factors relaxed Spaniards: the patient was a German national; and Gomera, an isolated and treated island in the Canary Islands of Spain, a holiday destination for Germans and Britons, most notably the fact that the island was 2,000 kilometres from the capital, Madrid.
之后，西班牙的疫情蔓延比较缓慢。
Since then, the epidemic has spread more slowly in Spain.
直到2月底西班牙确诊人数仍不到30人，西班牙从上到下并不觉得紧张。
With fewer than 30 confirmed cases in Spain until the end of February, Spain was not nervous from top to bottom.
3月2日，有13万居民的西班牙小城Leganés市发生聚集感染，这个人员流动性很大的小城距马德里仅有18公里，成为第一个暴发点。
On 2 March, the Spanish town of Leganés, with a population of 130,000, was the first outbreak point in a small, highly mobile city, just 18 kilometres from Madrid.
福音联盟发言人Pedro Tarquis 表示，福音教堂有3名信众因感染新冠肺炎入院，这些信众曾参加过教会活动，在活动中传染了数十人。
Pedro Tarquis, a spokesman for the Evangelical Alliance, said three members of the evangelical church had been admitted with pneumonia because they had participated in church activities that had infected dozens of people.
3月5日，巴斯克地区的一家医院表示，该院一名医生已将新冠肺炎传染给了多名医护人员。
On March 5, a hospital in the Basque Country said a doctor at the hospital had passed on pneumonia to doctors and nurses.
此前，该医护人员曾接触多名确诊病患，且在确诊时无明显症状。
Previously, the doctor had been in contact with a number of confirmed patients and had no obvious symptoms at the time of diagnosis.
不过截止到当地时间3月5日12时，西班牙新冠肺炎确诊病例为208例。
But as of 12: 00 local time March 5, Spain's new crown pneumonia confirmed 208 cases.
3月7日，西班牙境内发生最大的新冠病毒传播事件。
On 7 March, the largest transmission of the new crown virus occurred in Spain.
始自巴斯克自治区维多利亚市两周前举行的一场葬礼，在这场葬礼上有60多名参与者被感染新冠肺炎。
More than 60 participants were infected with pneumonia at a funeral in Victoria, an autonomous Basque country, two weeks ago.
于是一些大型活动相继取消，比如梅利利亚大区决定取消原定于3月21日的跑步和自行车比赛。
This was followed by the cancellation of major events, such as the decision of the region of Melilla to cancel the running and cycling events scheduled for 21 March.
每年会有3500人参加此活动。
Each year, 3,500 people take part in the event.
既使如此，西班牙总体上社会生活依然按部就班，西班牙有关部门直到那时都坚信，该国绝大多数新冠肺炎病例是输入性的，或与出国旅游的人有关。
Even so, social life in Spain as a whole remained on track, with Spanish authorities until then convinced that the vast majority of new cases of pneumonia in the country were imported or related to people travelling abroad.
3月8日西班牙卫生部发布消息称，该国已确诊589例新冠肺炎病例，13人死亡。
Spain has confirmed 589 new cases of pneumonia and 13 deaths, the Health Ministry said on March 8.
西班牙卫生警报和紧急情况中心的负责人费尔南多·西曼说，疫情在控制范围内。
Fernando Simán, director of the Spanish Health Alert and Emergency Centre, said the outbreak was under control.
他指出，60%的病例仅限于西班牙17个自治区中的其中3个，与此同时，70%的病例集中在4个自治区。
He noted that 60 per cent of cases were limited to three of Spain's 17 autonomous regions, while 70 per cent of cases were concentrated in four autonomous regions.
西班牙庆典游行等大型活动在3月8日达到了高潮，当天马德里有67场大型游行活动，巴塞罗纳有5万人聚集，瓦伦西亚等地也有上万人聚集。
Major events such as the Spanish festivities culminated on March 8 with 67 major marches in Madrid, with 50,000 people in Barcelona and tens of thousands in places like Valencia.
尽管受到质疑，西班牙卫生部一再表示没有任何必要取消3月8日的妇女平权大游行。
Despite the challenges, the Spanish Ministry of Health has repeatedly stated that there is no need to cancel the March 8 women's equality march.
最后马德里有12万人参加了大游行，人群、标语牌在大街小巷流动。
In Madrid, 120,000 people took part in the parade, with crowds and placards streaming down the streets.
Manuel Sánchez Cánovas看到了街上的游行，他不记得有人戴口罩，大家敲锅打盆，完全不像是在疫情期间。
Manuel Sánchez Cánovas saw a demonstration in the street, and he did not remember the wearing of a mask and the beating of pots and pans, which did not seem to be the case during the outbreak.
西班牙国会第三大党、极右翼党派VOX组织了9000人集会，秘书长哈维尔·史密斯参加并公开演讲，但随后检测阳性。
The far-right party VOX, the third largest party in the Spanish Parliament, organized a rally of 9,000 people, with Secretary-General Javier Smith participating and speaking publicly, but subsequently testing positive.
3月9日西班牙巴斯克省Labastida市三所学校宣布关闭，该市数十名确诊病例大多数都来自这三所学校。
On 9 March, three schools were closed in Labastida municipality, Basque Country, Spain, from which the majority of the dozens of confirmed cases originated.
该市的某一确诊病例在确诊后，没有遵守隔离规范，擅自跟一名学生进行了接触，这名学生后又参加了两所学校的足球比赛，使得学校发生大规模感染。
One confirmed case in the city, after being diagnosed, did not comply with the quarantine norms and contacted a student who then participated in a football match at two schools, causing a mass infection in the school.
直到那时，西班牙政府仍维持着疫情一级警报，与之相对的是最为轻微、最为温和的防控手段。
Until then, the Spanish government maintained a first-level epidemic alert, in contrast to the mildest and mildest form of control.
那时的焦点地区是马德里、阿拉瓦和拉里奥哈等地，卫生部在讨论是否要将警报提高至二级。
The areas of focus were Madrid, Alawa and La Rioja, and the Ministry of Health was discussing whether to raise the alert to level II.
3月11日形势急转直下，首都马德里部分地区成为“高传播区域”——基本上无法确定病毒传染源头和轨迹，且每天的病例成指数级增长的地区。
On March 11, the situation deteriorated sharply, with parts of the capital, Madrid, becoming "high-transmission areas" - areas where the source and trajectory of the virus are largely uncertain, and the number of cases per day increases exponentially.
马德里地区确诊患者占西班牙总数的50%，死亡人数占总数的66%，重症患者102人，占总人数的80%。
In the Madrid region, 50 per cent of all cases were diagnosed, 66 per cent of all deaths and 102 cases of serious illness, or 80 per cent of the total.
西班牙政府表示，完全控制疫情至少需要1个半月到2个月，如果抗疫措施未按计划进行，则需要3至4个月。
The Spanish government says it will take at least a month and a half to two months to bring the outbreak under full control and three to four months if anti-epidemic measures do not proceed as planned.
马德里大区主席阿约索（Isabel Diaz Ayuso）3月11日表示，未来几天内马德里的感染人数还将继续增加，尤其是在即将到来的周末，恐将会出现新的暴发。
Madrid president Isabel Diaz Ayuso said March 11, the number of infections in Madrid will continue to increase in the coming days, especially in the upcoming weekend, there is a threat of new outbreaks.
虽然为避免疫情传播，西班牙政府关闭了马德里所有国家级博物馆。
The Spanish government has shut down all national museums in Madrid to avoid the spread of the disease.
马德里当地政府宣布，马德里的所有级别学校关闭15天；1000人以上大型集会被取消；所有剧院、文化中心和图书馆全面关闭15天，提倡企业让员工在家工作。
Madrid's local government announced that all schools of all levels in Madrid were closed for 15 days; large gatherings of more than 1,000 people were cancelled; and all theatres, cultural centres and libraries were closed for 15 days, promoting home-based work by businesses.
但这一切措施都来得太晚。
But all of this came too late.
参加3月8日游行集会的部分政界人士，3月12日纷纷确诊冠状肺炎阳性，包括3月8日推动并参加了马德里12万人大游行的、西班牙社会平等部部长，其丈夫西班牙第二副首相巴勃罗-伊格莱西亚斯被隔离。
Some politicians who took part in the march 8 march were confirmed to be positive for coronary pneumonia on 12 March, including the Minister for Social Equality of Spain, whose husband, Pablo Iglesias, Second Deputy Prime Minister of Spain, was quarantined on 8 March, when he promoted and participated in the 120,000-strong march in Madrid.
西班牙感染病例数自8日以来大幅攀升，国内餐厅酒吧，以及所有体育艺文机构都已经关闭。
The number of infections in Spain has risen sharply since the 8th, the country's restaurants and bars, as well as all sports and cultural institutions have been closed.
马德里地区确诊病例数近3000例，当地已下令关闭所有非必要的商业活动。
Nearly 3,000 cases have been confirmed in the Madrid region, where all non-essential commercial activities have been ordered to close.
西班牙卫生当局3月14日表示，此前24小时新增冠状肺炎感染者1500人，总数已经达到5753人，其中一半是在首都马德里，死亡者为136人。
Spanish health authorities said Monday that 1,500 new cases of coronary pneumonia had been reported in the previous 24 hours, bringing the total to 5,753, half of them in the capital, Madrid, where 136 people died.
这最终导致当天内阁特别会议通过政令，除特定情况外，全国民众不能离开自己的住所。
This eventually led to the adoption of a decree by a special Cabinet session on the same day that the entire population could not leave their homes except in certain circumstances.
这些情况包括购买食品、药品等必需品，就医，前往工作场所，返回常住住所，对老年人、未成年人等弱势群体进行帮助和照顾，去金融机构或保险机构等。
These include the purchase of necessities such as food, medicines, medical treatment, visits to workplaces, return to places of habitual residence, assistance and care for vulnerable groups such as the elderly and minors, and visits to financial institutions or insurance institutions.
政令规定，西班牙全国所有教育机构停止现场教学，除供应食品等生活必需品、报刊杂志、燃料等的商店以外，其他零售商店全部停止营业。
The decree stipulates that all educational establishments throughout Spain shall cease on-site teaching and that all retail shops shall be closed, except for those that supply necessities such as food, newspapers, magazines, fuel, etc.
根据这一政令，西班牙卫生大臣直接集中指挥全国卫生系统工作，卫生部有权动用和调配全国所有医疗资源，国家和地方警察等安全部队暂由内政部管辖。
Under the decree, the Spanish Minister of Health directs the work of the national health system directly and the Ministry of Health has the authority to mobilize and deploy all medical resources throughout the country, with security forces, such as the national and local police, temporarily under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior.
禁令草案还显示，政府将削减所有公共交通。
The draft ban also shows that the government will cut all public transport.
航空公司、火车、公共汽车和轮船经营者被告知要将服务减少至少一半，任何飞机、火车、公共汽车或其它运输工具只能三分之一满。
Operators of airlines, trains, buses and ships have been told to cut services by at least half and that only one third of any aircraft, train, bus or other means of transport is full.
但该法令草案并未提到是否将会关闭边界，也没有详细说明违反封锁将会面临什么样的惩罚。
However, the draft decree does not mention whether the border will be closed, nor does it specify what penalties would be imposed for violations of the embargo.
这些禁令效果如何，尚有待后续时间检验。
The effects of these prohibitions have yet to be tested.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
西班牙“封国”抗疫：4700万民众行动受限。
Spain Seals Plague: 47 Million People Limited in Movement.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "西班牙“封国”抗疫：4700万民众行动受限";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Spain's "Sealed" epidemic: 47 million people with limited or moderate mobility;;
var msg_desc = "从3月14日开始，西班牙进入国家紧急状态。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Spain has had a state of emergency since 14 March.
根据西班牙宪法，国家紧急状态最多可持续15天，此后议会需要讨论并决定是否延长。
According to the Spanish Constitution, a state of emergency may last up to 15 days, after which Parliament needs to discuss and decide whether to extend it.
多位接受《财经》记者采访的西班牙人称，他们现在只能祈求西班牙不会成为第二个意大利";。
Several Spaniards interviewed by Caijing say they can only pray that Spain does not become Ritchie's second Italian / quot;;.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
