苹果关闭大中华区以外所有门店，供应链也吃紧。
Apple has closed all its stores outside Greater China, and its supply chain is tight.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 王凤。
Author Wang Feng.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
库克在公开信中引用了林肯的话说：“困难重重，我们必须与时俱进。
"We have to keep pace with the times," Cook quoted Lincoln as saying in his open letter.
因为我们面临的问题是全新的，所以我们必须重新思考，重新行动。
Because the problems we face are entirely new, we must rethink and act anew.
”文 | 《财经》记者 王凤 编辑 | 谢丽容随着新冠病毒的全球扩散，苹果（AAPL:NASDAQ）遭受的冲击波也由大中华区扩散至全球。
With the global spread of the new crown virus, the shockwave from Apple's (AAPL: NASDAQ) has spread globally from Greater China.
3月14日，库克在苹果官网发信称，将关闭大中华区以外的所有零售店，至3月27日。
On March 14, Cook wrote on Apple's website that he would close all retail outlets outside Greater China until March 27.
在此之前的2月1日至9日，苹果关闭了中国大陆的所有零售店。
Earlier, from February 1 to 9, Apple shut down all retail stores in mainland China.
一直到2月13日，苹果位于大陆的42家零售店才全部恢复营业。
It wasn't until Feb. 13 that all 42 of Apple's retail stores on the mainland reopened.
更早的3月9日，库克通知位于加利福尼亚、西雅图、韩国、日本、意大利等感染密度最大地区的员工，继续在家办公一周。
Earlier, on March 9, Cook told employees in the most heavily infected areas, such as California, Seattle, South Korea, Japan and Italy, to stay at home for a week.
美国、欧洲市场零售店的关闭，意味着苹果iPhone等产品的线下触点短期内要休克了。
The closure of retail stores in the US and Europe means that offline contacts for products such as Apple's iPhone will go into shock in the short term.
目前中国市场消费需求尚未恢复，疫情会进一步打击全球消费需求。
China's consumer demand has not yet recovered, and the epidemic will hit global consumer demand further.
此外，供应链断链风险由中国扩散至全球。
Moreover, supply-chain risks spread from China to the rest of the world.
承接90%iPhone组装订单的富士康郑州称，截至3月6日，富士康及大部分供应商复工复产率均达80%。
As of March 6, Foxconn and most of its suppliers were back to work at 80%, according to Foxconn, which handles 90% of iPhone assembly orders.
但组装的恢复前提是原材料的充足供应，美日韩等产业链上游任何一个环节出现问题，都将导致下游组装厂的产线工人面临“无米之炊”。
But the resumption of assembly presupposes an adequate supply of raw materials, and problems in any link upstream of the US, Japan and South Korea industrial chain will lead to a "rice-free cookout" for downstream assembly plant workers.
3月14日凌晨，苹果还宣布，原定于6月份举办的第31届全球开发者大会（WWDC）转到线上。
In the early hours of March 14, Apple also announced that the 31st Global Developer Conference (WWDC), originally scheduled for June, would go online.
因为加利福尼亚州圣何塞地区确诊多个新冠病例。
Several new cases were confirmed in San Jose, California.
新款iPhone推迟发布，量产可能推迟至第二季度。
The launch of the new iPhone was delayed, possibly until the second quarter.
原计划9月份发布的5G新机也将推迟至10月份，量产日期推迟1-2个月。
The new 5G, originally planned for September, will also be delayed until October, with production delayed by one to two months.
3月9日上午9:34，美国三大股指齐跌超7%，触发熔断。
March 9 9: 34 a.m., the three major U.S. stock index fell below 7%, triggering the meltdown.
包括微软、谷歌在内的科技股集体下跌，作为FAANG（美国市场五大最受欢迎、表现最佳科技股）成员之一，苹果无法置身事外。
Technology stocks, including Microsoft and Google, fell collectively as one of the five most popular and best performing tech stocks in the U.S. market, leaving Apple untouched.
消费需求全球羸弱全球爆发的疫情，将在全球范围内打击所有苹果产品需求。
A global outbreak of weak consumer demand will hit demand for all Apple products around the world.
据中国信通院发布的数据，2月份国内智能手机出货量634.1万部，同比下降54.7%。
Smartphones shipped 6.341,000 units in February, down 54.7% from a year earlier, according to figures released by the Chinese Academy of Informatics.
其中，Android 手机占比92.2%。
Of these, 92.2 per cent are Android.
1月智能手机出货量2036.6万部，其中Android手机占比88.7%。
Smartphones shipped 20.366 million units in January, of which Android accounted for 88.7%.
照此计算，苹果手机1月份出货量230.1万部，2月份出货量49.5万部，环比下降78.5%。
At that rate, Apple's handset shipped 2.301 million units in January and 495,000 units in February, a drop of 78.5 percent.
3月12日，富士康前董事长郭台铭公开喊话，台湾、大陆复工进展超乎预期。
On March 12, Foxconn's former chairman, Guo Deming, publicly announced that Taiwan and the mainland are making more progress than expected.
订单却开始下降。
Orders are starting to fall.
据产业链人士透露，苹果因疫情全面爆发将低价新iPhone订单量减半（此前预计全面量产3000万台）。
Apple has halved orders for new iPhones because of a full-blown outbreak, according to industry sources, up from an overall production estimate of 30 million.
这款手机已经在富士康印度工厂生产，随着郑州产能的逐渐恢复再返回中国。
The phone has been manufactured at Foxconn India and will return to China as Zhengzhou's production capacity recovers.
郭台铭特意强调对消费市场低迷的担心——硬件产品在消费市场，消费者晚几个月消费还没关系，工厂产能落后2周到3周，日后用数个月时间加班调整可以恢复。
Mr. Gou purposely stressed concerns about a weak consumer market, where consumer spending is still a few months behind, factory capacity is two weeks behind schedule, and a few months of overtime adjustment could resume.
“美国占全球消费市场的40%消费量，美国消费能力下降，将伤害全球经济”。
"The US accounts for 40 per cent of the global consumer market and the decline in US consumer capacity will hurt the global economy."
然而，美国的疫情状况并不乐观。
However, the situation in the United States is not encouraging.
3月12日，好莱坞知名演员汤姆·汉克斯及其妻子、爵士中锋鲁迪·戈贝尔确诊，NBA宣布无限期停赛。
Hollywood actor Tom Hanks and his wife, Sir Rudy Goebbels, were diagnosed on March 12 and the NBA declared an indefinite suspension.
当天，世界卫生组织（WHO）宣布新冠肺炎疫情“具有全球大流行病特征”，成为美国公众对疫情认知的“拐点”。
On the same day, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the outbreak of new crown pneumonia "has the characteristics of a global pandemic," becoming the "inflection point" of public perception of the epidemic in the United States.
焦虑的情绪立刻传导到股市上。
Anxiety carried over to the stock market immediately.
继3月9日三大股指齐跌超7%触发熔断，3月12日，三大股指收盘均跌入技术性熊市。
The three main indexes ended March 12 in a technical bear market, following a fall of more than 7% in the three indexes on March 9.
美股当天再次熔断，创一周两次熔断记录。
U. S. stocks on the same day again melting, twice a week to break the record.
其他国家也因股市下滑触发熔断机制。
Other countries also triggered a meltdown as a result of the stock market downturn.
自1月21日以来，苹果股价已下跌12.36%。
Apple shares have fallen 12.36% since January 21.
3月13日，特朗普宣布美国进入国家紧急状态。
On March 13, Trump declared a state of emergency in the United States.
截至3月14日，美国有2340例确诊病例，49例死亡。
As of March 14, there were 2,340 confirmed cases and 49 deaths in the United States.
消费电子产品不是生活必需品，特殊时期需求面疲软是必然。
Consumer electronics is not a necessity of life, especially the weak demand side is inevitable.
一位台湾代工企业高管对《财经》记者分析，疫情期间，“民生需求面才是王道，所有创造出来的需求都将打回原形”。
During the epidemic, "the demand side of people's livelihood is the king, and all the demand created will revert to its original form," a senior executive of a Taiwanese subcontractor told Caijing.
国内，虽然苹果零售店和一些线下渠道陆续开放，但销量仍受到影响。
At home, Apple's retail stores and some offline channels are opening up, but sales are still affected.
Strategy Analytics 分析师隋倩向《财经》记者表示，2月份，苹果在国内线下渠道端销量下滑了8成以上。
In February, Apple's offline sales fell more than 80%, Sui Qian, an analyst at Strategy Analytics, told Caijing.
她预测，第1季度苹果iPhone全球的出货量会同比下滑10%左右；第二季度，苹果手机仍处于同比下降区间。
She predicts global shipments of Apple's iPhone will fall about 10% year-on-year in the first quarter, while Apple's will remain in a year-on-year decline in the second quarter.
以中国为触点，传导到全球，消费萎缩将扩散至全球。
Taking China as the point of contact, the global transmission, consumption will spread to the contraction of global consumption.
世界卫生组织指出，全球百多个国家或地区已出现新冠肺炎病例，超过13万人染病。
The World Health Organization says more than a hundred countries and regions have reported new cases of pneumonia, with more than 130,000 people infected.
世卫总干事谭德塞称，欧洲目前成为疫情大流行的“震中”。
WHO Director General Lindsey said Europe is now the "epicentre" of the pandemic.
西班牙全国进入紧急状态，捷克、斯洛伐克、丹麦多国已封闭边境。
Spain has a state of emergency, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Denmark and many countries have closed the border.
据苹果财报，美国市场占据苹果40%（近三年分别占比：44.94%，42.20%，42.14%）以上营收，欧洲市场占超23%（23.17%，23.50%，23.97%）营收，日本市场占7%-8%（8.27%，8.18%，7.74%）营收。
According to Apple's earnings, the U.S. market accounts for 40% of Apple's revenue (44.94%, 42.20%, 42.14%, respectively), the European market accounts for more than 23% (23.17%, 23.50%, 23.97%), and the Japanese market accounts for 7% to 8% (8.27%, 8.18%, 7.74%).
疫情导致消费需求疲软、产品供应不足，因持续低迷的消费苹果砍单，这一循环已在中国上演。
The epidemic has led to weak consumer demand and a lack of supply, a cycle that has been set in motion in China as the country continues to slash spending on Apple.
即便富士康等组装厂的产能恢复，可预见的美国大本营、欧洲、日本市场普遍的需求羸弱，将给苹果带来更大压力。
Even if assembly plants such as Foxconn recover their capacity, the predictable weakness of demand across the US base, Europe and Japan will put more pressure on Apple.
供应链难题更大的挑战在供应链。
The bigger supply chain challenge lies in the supply chain.
苹果的供应链体系遍布全球。
Apple has a global supply chain.
2019年苹果公布的全球200大供应商名单显示，中国台湾供应商数量为46家，美国供应商40家，中国供应商40家（大陆+香港），日本供应商39家，韩国供应商14家。
According to the list of the world's 200 largest suppliers published by Apple in 2019, there are 46 suppliers from Taiwan, 40 from the United States, 40 from China (Mainland + Hong Kong), 39 from Japan and 14 from the Republic of Korea.
德国占3%，新加坡、奥地利、英国等国家占8%。
Germany accounted for 3 per cent and Singapore, Austria, the United Kingdom and others accounted for 8 per cent.
这200大供应商，在全球分布着807家工厂。
The 200 largest suppliers have 807 factories spread around the world.
其中，383家在中国大陆，占比47.46%。
Of these, 383 are in mainland China, accounting for 47.46 per cent.
日本和东南亚的工厂数量也较多。
There are also more factories in Japan and Southeast Asia.
2019年，中国（大陆+港台）、日本和韩国的供应商占比高达69.5%。
China (Mainland + RTHK), Japan and South Korea accounted for 69.5 per cent of suppliers in 2019.
华尔街对苹果供应链担忧，不仅因为大中华区16.79%（2019财年年报）的营收市场，更因为中国乃至东亚庞大的生产体系与物流体系，恢复艰难。
Wall Street is worried about Apple's supply chain, not only because of the revenue market for 16.79% of Greater China (the 2019 annual report), but also because of China's huge production and logistics systems and those of East Asia.
恢复如初，更难。
Recovery is harder than ever.
此刻，这种担忧正扩散至苹果全供应链的各个环节。
At the moment, that concern is spreading to all segments of Apple's supply chain.
企业真正复产涉及整个产业链上下游，以及每个节点辐射到的供应商网络。
Real production of enterprises involves the whole industry chain upstream and downstream, as well as each node radiated to the supplier network.
对于苹果这样涉及200家大供应商、800个工厂以及周围无数大中小企业的供应链条来说，某个关键环节的关键零部件出现突发问题，都有可能影响整个链条的精密运转节奏。
For a chain like Apple, which involves 200 large suppliers, 800 factories, and countless small and medium-sized enterprises around it, a critical component breakout can affect the precise rhythm of the chain.
产业链上游，苹果半导体（集成电路+分立器件）领域的供应商，绝大多数位于美国，如ADI、博通、高通、英特尔、德州仪器、AMD、美光等。
Upstream in the industry chain, Apple Semiconductor (IC + discrete devices) suppliers, the vast majority of which are located in the United States, such as ADI, Botong, Qualcomm, Intel, Texas Instruments, AMD, Meguiar, etc.
韩国、日本、欧洲只在部分芯片领域有身影。
South Korea, Japan and Europe are only present in some chip fields.
被动元件领域的供应商则聚集于日本，如村田、日本TDK、日本太阳诱电等。
Suppliers in the field of passive components are concentrated in Japan, such as Kimura, TDK in Japan and solar induced electricity in Japan.
苹果供应链其实有较强韧性。
Apple's supply chain is actually more resilient.
“在不同的领域深度绑定领头羊，这已经是将鸡蛋放到不同的好篮子里。
"Binding the leader in depth in different fields is already putting eggs in different good baskets.
”野村综研(上海)咨询有限公司通信和ICT产业部咨询顾问闵海兰对《财经》记者说。
"Nomura Research (Shanghai) Consulting Co. Ltd., communications and ICT industry consultant Min Hai-lan told Caijing.
上述代工企业高管对《财经》记者说，苹果每个关键零部件都有2-3个备选。
Apple has two or three options for each key component, Caijing told Caijing.
富士康、和硕、广达等工厂附近的仓库，均会允许几家供应商放置多余的物料（如订单外的30%）以备不时之需。
Warehouses near Foxconn, Asus and Quanta will allow several suppliers to place excess materials (such as 30% off-order) in case of need.
“但供应链复工难度太大。
"But getting the supply chain back to work is too difficult.
”库克可以将库存周转天数从一个月压缩至6天甚至3天，却无法预知新冠病毒的走势。
Mr Cook could compress inventory lead times from a month to six or even three days, but could not predict what would happen with the new cap virus.
库克在公开信中引用林肯的话称，“困难重重，我们必须与时俱进。
"It's difficult and we have to keep up with the times," Cook quoted Lincoln in an open letter as saying
因为我们面临的问题是全新的，所以我们必须重新思考，重新行动。
Because the problems we face are entirely new, we must rethink and act anew.
”美国、韩国、日本，目前均是疫情影响的重点国家。
The United States, South Korea and Japan are all key countries affected by the epidemic.
韩国疾病管理本部3月14日数据显示，累计确诊病例数为8086例，累计死亡72例。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases was 8,086, with a cumulative total of 72 deaths, according to the Korea Disease Management Headquarters March 14.
日本广播协会（NHK）电视台统计，截至当地时间3月14日23:30，日本累计确诊病例786例，已有22例死亡。
As of 23: 30 March local time, 786 cases had been confirmed and 22 deaths had occurred in Japan, according to the NHK television station.
郭台铭3月12日便称，自己担心日本和韩国的供应链，“现在DRAM有涨价的趋势，加上部分面板供应有问题”。
On March 12, Mr Gou said he was worried about supply chains in Japan and South Korea, "with DRAM now trending higher, plus problems with some panel supplies."
而中国富士康所辐射的供应商网络尚未完全复苏。
And China's Foxconn radiation supplier network has not yet fully recovered.
一个负责iPhone表面处理的供应链企业总裁对《财经》记者透露，目前拿到的订单是平时的60%左右。
Caijing, the president of a supply-chain company that handles the iPhone's surface, told Caijing that it is getting about 60% of its usual orders.
“至少40%的产能闲置”。
"At least 40 per cent of capacity is idle."
此外，第三方数据机构IDC发布新冠肺炎（COVID-19）对全球终端设备市场影响评估称，供应商在年末赶制生产配件，让部件存货非常充裕，但物流停运使全球主要供应链运转陷入停摆。
In addition, IDC, a third-party data organization, released its impact assessment of the global market for end-of-pipe equipment, saying suppliers rushed to produce spare parts at the end of the year, leaving spare parts in ample supply, but the shutdown brought major global supply chains to a standstill.
乐观预计是，供应链受到的影响在本季度结束；悲观预计是，全球设备市场呈“L”形衰退曲线。
The upbeat forecast is that the supply chain will be affected by the end of the quarter, while the gloomier outlook is for an "L" curve in the global equipment market.
西泽研究院研究院特约研究员邓宇对《财经》记者说，海外疫情扩散成为全球产业链受挫的“黑天鹅”，目前处于爆发期，或将冲击到全球产业链的修复，从海外疫情扩散趋势来看，“持续到二季度末的可能性较大”。
The spread of overseas epidemics has become a black swan for the global industrial chain, and it is now in the midst of an outbreak or could hit the repair of global industrial chains, said Deng Yu, a special research fellow at the Xizang Research Institute.
不难推测，库克的全球供应链体系正在和时间赛跑。
It is easy to speculate that Cook's global supply chain system is in a race against time.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
苹果关闭大中华区以外所有门店，供应链也吃紧。
Apple has closed all its stores outside Greater China, and its supply chain is tight.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "苹果关闭大中华区以外所有门店，供应链也吃紧";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Apple has shut all its stores outside Greater China, and its supply chain is at its service.
var msg_desc = "库克在公开信中引用了林肯的话说：“困难重重，我们必须与时俱进。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Cook quoted Lincoln in his open letter as saying: "It's tough, we have to keep up with the times.
因为我们面临的问题是全新的，所以我们必须重新思考，重新行动。
Because the problems we face are entirely new, we must rethink and act anew.
”";。
";;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
