新冠疫情蔓延全美，特朗普连任增变数。
Trump's re-election is uncertain as the new crown epidemic spreads across the country.
王晓枫。
Wang Xiaofeng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
应对重大公共卫生事件对美国大选影响举足轻重，福特总统在1976年连任失败被指一定程度上受到应对猪流感事件不利的影响，特朗普目前应对疫情的表现被美国媒体称为“灾难”，他能亡羊补牢，避免重蹈覆辙吗文|《财经》记者 王晓枫编辑|郝洲当地时间3月14日，白宫医生表示，特朗普新冠病毒检测结果为阴性，这让外界松了一口气。
President Ford's failure in his 1976 re-election campaign, which was partly blamed on the US media as a "disaster," has helped prevent a repeat of the epidemic. White House doctors said March 14 that Trump's test results for the new crown virus were negative.
就在一天前，美国总统特朗普刚刚宣布进入国家紧急状态，拉开美国全面应对新冠疫情大幕。
Just a day ago, US President Trump declared a state of emergency, ushering in a comprehensive US response to the new crown.
目前，美国确诊的新冠病毒病例已接近3000例，死亡人数已有至少48人。
Nearly 3,000 new cases of the virus have been confirmed in the United States, and at least 48 people have died.
宣布进入全国紧急状态，意味着联邦政府能动用更多资源抗击疫情，作出更灵活迅速的应对。
The declaration of a state of emergency means that the federal government will be able to deploy more resources to fight the epidemic and respond more flexibly and quickly.
总统可以紧急状态之名，执行更严厉的防疫措施。
The president may impose stricter measures in the name of a state of emergency.
特朗普的举措一定程度上给予市场信心，美国股市反弹9%，结束震荡的一周。
Trump's move gave some confidence to markets, with US stocks rebounding by 9%, ending a week of turmoil.
然而，这一切却并没有冲淡外界对美国大选的担忧，美国大选正值党内初选白热化阶段，疫情会对投票率、选民安全和大型拉票集会产生怎样的影响仍是未知数，新冠病毒已成为2020年选情最大的“黑天鹅”。
All of this, however, has not dampened concerns about the US election, which has become the most popular black swan in 2020, at a time when primaries are in full swing and the impact of the epidemic on voter turnout, voter safety and large canvassing remains uncertain.
美国总统竞选核心内容之一是大型集会拉票与选民互动，在互动过程中会有频繁的握手和拥抱。
One of the central features of the US presidential campaign is the interaction of large rallies with voters, with frequent handshakes and hugs.
如今这种密集接触的传统正受到考验，对新冠病毒的担忧已导致特朗普和民主党参选人拜登和桑德斯取消多项竞选活动。
Today's tradition of intense engagement is being tested, and concerns about the new crown virus have led Trump and Democratic candidates Biden and Sanders to cancel many campaigns.
同时疫情的爆发可能从根本上改变大选性质，因为政府要在竞选活动与保护选民和参选者之间寻求平衡。
At the same time, the outbreak could fundamentally alter the nature of the election, as the government seeks a balance between campaigning and protecting voters and candidates.
病毒风险危及两党参选人角逐总统职位的特朗普和两名民主党人都已年过七十，属于新冠病毒易感人群。
Virus Risk Threatens Candidates for the presidency Trump and two Democrats, both over 70 years old, are among those susceptible to the new cap virus.
特朗普的健康状况引发诸多担忧，因为他不久前在海湖庄园接待了来访的巴西总统博索纳罗。
Trump's health is a cause for concern, given that he recently hosted visiting Brazilian President Hugo Bosonaro at Lake Hai Manor.
随行的巴西总统府社会传播秘书处负责人法比奥·瓦恩加滕（Fabio Wajngarten）回国后被确诊感染新冠病毒。
Accompanied by Fabio Wajngarten, head of the Social Communication Secretariat at the Presidency of Brazil, he was diagnosed with the new crown virus.
瓦恩加滕曾与特朗普、美国副总统彭斯一起合影。
Mr. Wangateng took a photo with Trump and Vice President Burns.
不仅是与巴西政府官员接触，特朗普因为频繁参加各种选举拉票大会而广泛接触各界人士，这其中不乏确诊者。
Not just with Brazilian government officials, Trump has reached out to a wide cross-section of people, many of them diagnosed, for his frequent participation in various election rallies.
一位近日参加美国政界保守派大会人士确诊感染新冠病毒。
A recent attendee at the Congress of American Political Conservatives has confirmed the virus.
该大会2月底在华盛顿附近举行，很多保守派政治人物到场，包括特朗普与副总统彭斯，特朗普曾与大会主席握手，后者在会议中接触过确诊病人。
The conference, held near Washington in late February, was attended by many conservative politicians, including Trump and Vice-President Burns, who shook hands with the president of the General Assembly, who had been in contact with confirmed patients during the meeting.
无独有偶，3月初在华盛顿举行的亲以色列游说团体大会上也有两名参会者事后确诊感染新冠病毒，很多国会议员到场，彭斯和国务卿蓬佩奥亦是座上宾。
Similarly, two attendees at the pro-Israel lobby meeting in Washington in early March were later confirmed to be infected with the new crown virus, with many members of Congress present, including Peng and Secretary of State Pompeio.
其中，佛罗里达州共和党众议员马特·盖茨（Matt Gaetz）在得知自己曾与确诊患者有过接触时正与特朗普同乘空军一号总统专机，盖茨随即转移到一处无人的舱室，但在下飞机前，特朗普坚持与他短暂交谈。
When Matt Gaetz, Florida's Republican congressman, learned that he had been in Air Force One with Trump when he learned that he had had contact with a confirmed patient, Gates immediately moved to an empty cabin, but Trump insisted on a brief conversation with him before disembarking.
不过，据盖茨透露，特朗普近日采取了一些预防感染措施，包括频繁使用手部消毒液。
However, according to Gates, Trump has recently taken steps to prevent infection, including frequent use of hand sanitizers.
特朗普一直不讳言他有洁癖，自称患有“恐菌症”。
Trump has been unabashedly squeamish about his cleanliness, claiming to have "phobia."
特朗普近日在白宫疫情简报会上曾对记者们调侃说，“你们可能听说过，我常洗手。
As Trump joked to reporters at the White House briefing recently, "You may have heard that I wash my hands often.
”调侃归调侃，美国目前正在谨慎对待病毒在华府扩散。
The US is now taking a cautious approach to the spread of the virus in Washington.
由于担心自己也被感染，特朗普在3月13日晚也接受了新冠病毒检测，第二天的检测结果显示阴性。
Fearing that he, too, would be infected, Trump tested for the virus on the night of March 13, with negative results the next day.
在等待病毒检测结果的期间，特朗普还接受了体温检测，结果“完全正常”。
While awaiting the virus test results, Trump also underwent a temperature test, which turned out to be "perfectly normal."
对于特朗普和彭斯密切接触的工作人员，白宫也都在进行体温检查。
The White House is also conducting temperature checks on the people Trump and Burns are in close contact with.
多场竞选集会被取消不仅是特朗普，民主党两位参选人的健康安全也颇受关注，拜登和桑德斯之间的辩论原本定于3月15日（周日）在亚利桑那州举行，由于担忧新冠病毒的影响，目前已经改为在首都华盛顿举行。
The cancellations are not just about Trump, but also about the health and safety of the two Democratic candidates, whose debate, originally scheduled for Sunday, March 15, in Arizona, has been held in the capital, Washington, amid concerns about the impact of the new cap virus.
这种突如其来的变化让家住亚利桑那州菲尼克斯的克莱尔·蒂尓帕克（Claire Tyrpak）非常失望，她在当地电视台负责筹款事务，她是桑德斯的坚定支持者。
This sudden change has disappointed Claire Tyrpak of Phoenix, Arizona, who is a staunch supporter of Sanders and is in charge of fundraising on local television.
3月6日，她前往桑德斯在菲尼克斯的竞选动员集会。
On 6 March, she travelled to Sanders' campaign mobilization rally in Phoenix.
当时人山人海，排起了长队，大家的参与热情丝毫没有受到选情影响。
At that time, there was a sea of people, queue up, everyone's enthusiasm for participation was not affected by the election.
克莱尔对《财经》记者表示，如今她越来越担忧疫情会对桑德斯竞选集会带来影响，因为这会不利于选情动员。
Clare told Caijing that she is now increasingly concerned about the impact of the outbreak on Sanders' campaign rally, which could be detrimental to election mobilization.
初选竞选活动在3月10日后急转直下，桑德斯竞选团队率先宣布取消在俄亥俄州克利夫兰的拉票集会，这是新冠疫情在美国暴发以来首个遭取消的初选集会。
As the primary election campaign plunged after March 10, the Sanders campaign spearheaded the cancellation of a rally in Cleveland, Ohio, as the first primary election rally to be cancelled since the outbreak of the new crown in the United States.
桑德斯团队表示，将视具体情况决定是否取消未来的集会。
The Sanders team said it would decide whether to cancel future meetings on a case-by-case basis.
拜登竞选团队随即也宣布，取消在克利夫兰的集会。
The Biden campaign then announced it would cancel the rally in Cleveland.
关于是否应该举行集会，拜登表示他将征求美国疾控中心的意见，如果他们的结论是不应举行大规模室内集会，那么将遵照建议停止大型室内集会。
On whether a rally should be held, Biden said he would consult with the CDC and, if they concluded that there should be no large indoor meeting, would comply with the recommendation.
华盛顿州是美国新冠病毒致死人数最多的地区，各位参选人一直避免在该州举行竞选活动。
Candidates have avoided campaigning in Washington state, which has the highest number of deaths from the new crown virus.
华盛顿州民主党推迟了原定在西雅图举行的一场大型筹款晚宴，该党官员原本希望这场晚宴能吸引参选人和1200多名参与者。
The Washington State Democratic Party has postponed a major fundraising dinner in Seattle that party officials had hoped would attract more than 1,200 attendees and candidates.
2020年到目前为止，特朗普已经举行十多次竞选集会，每次集会的间隔时间从未超过两周。
So far in 2020, Trump has held more than a dozen campaign rallies, never more than two weeks apart.
然而疫情也促使特朗普团队做出改变，取消了原定在内华达州举行的筹款活动以及原计划在拉斯维加斯的共和党犹太人联合会的讲话。
But the outbreak also prompted a change in Trump's team, which canceled a planned fund-raising event in Nevada and a planned speech by the Republican Jewish Federation in Las Vegas.
除此之外，特朗普竞选团队还宣布取消在内华达州、科罗拉多州和威斯康星州的竞选活动。
In addition, the Trump campaign announced the cancellation of campaigns in Nevada, Colorado, and Wisconsin.
新冠病毒防疫要点之一就是避免近距离接触，这正是大型竞选机会的必要元素。
Avoiding close contact is one of the essential ingredients of a major campaign opportunity.
著名选举公关幕僚亚力克斯·科南特（Alex Conant）直言，疫情之下，握手以及亲吻婴儿看起来真的很不明智。
As Alex Conant, a well-known public-relations aide, bluntly put it, shaking hands and kissing babies looks really unwise in the face of the epidemic.
虽然大多数政治人物都会在握手之后使用洗手液，但他们仍然在冒险。
While most politicians use hand sanitizers after shaking hands, they still take risks.
“我预计参选人将很快停止举行集会，直到新冠病毒疫情过去。
"I expect the candidates to stop holding rallies very soon until the new crown virus is over.
没有人想让自己的支持者染病。
No one wants their supporters to get sick.
”对于是否应该举行竞选集会，联邦政府首席传染病专家、国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）所长安东尼·福西（Anthony Fauci）建议，如果集会所在地未出现社区传播，可如期召开。
Anthony Fauci, the federal government's chief infectious-diseases expert and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), suggested holding an election rally if it did not occur.
但如果存在社区传播，应三思而行。
But if there is community transmission, think twice.
福西还强调，易感人群，例如年长者尤其是那些有慢性病的老年人，应采取专门防护措施，不要去参加大型集会。
Fossi also stressed that vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, especially those with chronic diseases, should take special precautions not to attend large gatherings.
取消大型集会将影响与选民沟通以及动员选民，可能会导致投票率下降，如果老年人因为担忧感染而不去投票恐影响以老年人支持者为主的参选人，而那些依靠年轻选民的参选人可能会短期受益。
Cancellation of large gatherings will affect communication with voters and mobilize voters, and may lead to a decrease in voter turnout if older persons do not vote for fear of infection that would affect candidates who are predominantly supporters of older persons, while those who rely on young voters may benefit in the short term.
中国人民大学国际关系学院副教授刁大明对《财经》记者分析说，在民主党内的初选阶段，如果投票率出现影响，会对桑德斯有利，因为桑德斯的支持者以年轻人为主，如果同步减少投票率，对年轻人影响弱。
Diao Daming, associate professor at the Institute of International Relations at Renmin University of China, told Caijing that it would be in Sanders's favor if turnout were to have an impact in the Democratic primaries, because Sanders's supporters are predominantly young and have a weak impact on young people if turnout is reduced in tandem.
而且如果取消集会改为在线动员，那么也会对桑德斯有利，因为拜登的支持者遍及各个政治光谱，太多元不好估算在线动员效果。
And if the rally were cancelled for online mobilisation, it would also benefit Sanders, whose supporters span a wide spectrum of political spectrum and are too diverse to estimate online mobilisation.
但总体上，拜登领先桑德斯优势明显，这个趋势应该不会被疫情扭转。
But overall, Biden has a clear lead over Sanders, a trend that should not be reversed.
目前，拜登获得890张党代表票，桑德斯有736票。
Biden currently has 890 party delegates and Saunders 736.
民主党参选人拿下1991张代表票就能夺得党内总统候选人提名，从而有望在11月的大选中对阵特朗普。
The Democratic candidates will win the party's presidential nomination by winning 1991 votes, which is expected to defeat Trump in November's general election.
疫情是否会影响大选很大程度上要取决于能否在今后的八个月中有效控制病毒扩散，如果不能恐对特朗普选情产生影响，其中影响之一就在于投票率。
Whether the epidemic affects the election will depend largely on how effectively the virus spreads over the next eight months, not least in terms of voter turnout, if not likely to have an impact on Trump's campaign.
特朗普在2016年大选中能够获胜很大程度上得益于竞选集会造势，若他无法举行这类活动，对于他的竞选造势风格可能是一个沉重打击。
Trump's election victory in 2016 will largely benefit from campaign rallies, and his inability to hold such events could be a serious blow to his campaign style.
“初选将在六月结束，如果疫情持续发酵，会对特朗普连任选情产生不利影响，影响特朗普支持者投票率。
"The primaries will end in June, and if the epidemic continues, it will have a negative impact on Trump's re-election campaign, affecting Trump's turnout."
与民主党支持者相比，特朗普支持者年龄偏高且更容易受疫情影响，例如，蓝领工人若感染病毒将被隔离，恐失去工作，这会打消他们的投票热情。
Trump supporters are older and more vulnerable than Democratic supporters, for example, because blue-collar workers would be quarantined for fear of losing their jobs, which would discourage them from voting.
”刁大明说。
Diao said.
疫情应对恐成特朗普软肋2020年大选刚刚铺开，初选将在六月中旬左右结束，接下来将召开两党大会正式提名候选人以及宣布竞选搭档，这将掀开本次大选的高潮。
Tackling the epidemic threatens to derail Trump in the run-up to the 2020 general election, which will end around mid-June, with a bipartisan convention to formally nominate candidates and announce a running mate.
之后，两党总统候选人将会就一系列内政外交话题展开辩论，可以肯定的是，疫情会让公共卫生话题成为焦点，特朗普本次疫情表现将成为民主党的抨击对象。
After that, presidential candidates from both parties will debate a range of domestic and foreign-policy issues. To be sure, the epidemic will bring public-health issues to the fore, and Trump's current performance will be the target of a Democratic attack.
特朗普上任以来以减税、经济刺激及其它短期措施应对经济问题，并使美国避免经济衰退。
Trump has responded to economic problems with tax cuts, economic stimulus, and other short-term measures since taking office, and has enabled the US to avoid a recession.
冠状病毒却让他措手不及，股市崩盘和检测病毒不利让特朗普备受指责。
He was taken aback by the coronavirus, which Trump has been accused of following the stock market crash and testing for viruses.
美国媒体更是将他最初的应对政策称为“灾难”，特朗普被指淡化危机规模，称之为完全来自境外的威胁，只是设置旅行禁令，除此之外没有拿出具体措施。
The US media have dubbed his initial policy response a "disaster," with Trump accused of playing down the scale of the crisis, calling it an exclusively foreign threat and imposing a travel ban, without concrete measures.
“疫情对于选情来说是一个双刃剑，现任总统拥有很大行政权力，可以通过设置议程赢得民众好感，避免疫情成为减分项。
"The epidemic is a double-edged sword for the election, and the incumbent has a lot of executive power to win people's favour by setting the agenda to avoid the epidemic becoming a subdivision."
然而特朗普此前只是出台旅行禁令，这无济于事。
Yet Trump's previous travel ban did not help.
特朗普应该庆幸桑德斯、拜登或其他民主党参选人不是州长，否则通过比较将会立判高下。
Trump should be glad that Sanders, Biden, or any other Democratic contender is not governor, or he will be judged better by comparison.
”刁大明说。
Diao said.
由于一度迟迟不出台联邦层面政策，急速传播的疫情在美国带来恐慌，不仅引发超市抢购风潮，还让全美面临停工停学的局面。
The rapid spread of the epidemic has caused panic in the United States, triggering a scramble not only for supermarkets, but also across the country, owing to a delay in federal policy.
这样一来，病毒不仅对特朗普的选民健康构成问题，而且构成经济问题，这会危及连任。
In this way, the virus would not only pose a problem for Trump's voters "health, but also an economic issue, which would jeopardize his re-election.
“特朗普总统的政治强项不再有效了，现在需要的是能让美国人安心，让人们看到，总统有能力控制局面，然而，特朗普恰恰无法向国人传达出这一感觉。
"President Trump's political strength is no longer valid; what is needed now is reassurance that the president has the ability to control the situation, and yet Trump is unable to convey that feeling to his countrymen.
”乔治城大学教授马克·罗姆（Mark Rom）表示。
Mark Rom, a professor at Georgetown University, said.
疫情带来的次生灾害特别是无薪休假将会对特朗普的核心选民蓝领工人带来巨大生活负担，若特朗普不能保证他们免受疫情冲击，那么会打消这些人的投票积极性。
The secondary disasters associated with the epidemic, especially unpaid leave, will place a huge burden on Trump's core constituency of blue-collar workers, who will be discouraged from voting if Trump does not guarantee them protection from the epidemic.
为了避免这种情况，特朗普政府已经与众议院民主党人达成一项法案，允许提供免费病毒检测，并向许多受疫情影响的人提供带薪病假，这将一定程度上缓解中下层收入者压力。
To avoid this, the Trump administration has agreed with House Democrats on a bill that would allow free virus testing and provide paid sick leave to many people affected by the epidemic, which would go some way toward easing the pressure on middle- and lower-income earners.
应对重大公共卫生事件对大选影响举足轻重，福特总统在1976年连任失败被指一定程度上受到应对猪流感事件不利的影响。
Responding to major public-health events was crucial to the election, and President Ford's defeat in 1976 was blamed in part for the adverse impact of the swine flu response.
1976年冬季，美国某军事基地暴发猪流感，引起人们对一场毁灭性大流行病的恐惧。
In the winter of 1976, an outbreak of swine flu at a United States military base raised fears of a devastating pandemic.
时任总统福特宣布了一项全民免疫接种计划。
Then President Ford announced a universal immunization program.
到该年底，美国2亿左右人口中有4000万人接种新疫苗，但疾病大流行没发生，这导致政府公共卫生声誉受损，因为大规模疫苗接种成本高昂且疫苗本身还造成大约30人死亡。
By the end of the year, 40 million of the approximately 200 million people in the United States had received new vaccines, but the absence of a pandemic had damaged the Government's public health reputation owing to the high cost of mass vaccination and the fact that the vaccine itself had caused some 30 deaths.
当年有些人将疫苗事件归咎于福特总统，他在那年竞选连任中输给卡特。
Some blamed the vaccine on President Ford, who lost to Carter in his re-election that year.
美国国家医学院前任院长哈维•芬伯格（Harvey Fineberg）在2009年甲流大爆发时反思1976年的决策时坦言，时任政治领导人希望做正确的事情，但缺乏技术知识。
As Harvey Fineberg, the former president of the US National College of Medicine, acknowledged when he reflected on his 1976 decision at the outbreak of swine flu in 2009, then-political leaders wanted to do the right thing, but lacked technical expertise.
技术专家与决策者之间沟通关系重大，决策者和专家不能完全依赖某些半定量评判标准，例如通常、有时和可能。
Communication between technical experts and policymakers is crucial, and policymakers and experts cannot rely solely on certain semi-quantitative criteria, such as general, sometimes and possible.
日常用语对追踪和调整流感暴发一类动态局势是不充分的。
Routine language is insufficient to track and adjust dynamic situations such as influenza outbreaks.
技术专家的责任是认真和精确思索已知和未知，准确描述不确定性，并在情况变化时随时加以调整，同时将信息传递给决策者。
It is the responsibility of technical experts to think carefully and accurately about the known and unknown, to describe uncertainties accurately and to adjust them as circumstances change, while conveying the information to decision makers.
决策者和技术专家在面对大众时，都会遇到严重的交流困难，而大众的理解、支持和参与可能是关键性的。
Policymakers and technical experts face serious communication difficulties when facing the general public, where understanding, support and participation can be critical.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情蔓延全美，特朗普连任增变数。
Trump's re-election is uncertain as the new crown epidemic spreads across the country.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情蔓延全美，特朗普连任增变数";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "应对重大公共卫生事件对美国大选影响举足轻重，福特总统在1976年连任失败被指一定程度上受到应对猪流感事件不利的影响，特朗普目前应对疫情的表现被美国媒体称为“灾难”，他能亡羊补牢，避免重蹈覆辙吗";。
War msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
