最长寒假何时结束？西部率先开学，多数省份未定。
When will the longest winter vacation end? The west begins first, most provinces are undecided.
刘梓桐 等。
Liuzitong et al.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
青海、贵州、西藏、新疆、山西、云南六省份已公布开学到校时间。
The six provinces of Qinghai, Guizhou, Tibet, Xinjiang, Shanxi and Yunnan have announced the start of the school year.
此前受新冠肺炎疫情影响，各地学校推迟了开学时间，切换成远程授课这一新兴模式，但网课质量尚有争议文 |《财经》实习生 刘梓桐 徐辰烨 记者 俞琴编辑|朱弢经历一个史上最漫长寒假后，青海高中生已陆续重返校园，成为全国最早开学复课的一批学生。
While schools around the world have delayed the start of classes and switched to the new model of distance learning, thanks to the new outbreak of pneumonia, the quality of the online lessons has been disputed and has become one of the earliest students in the country to resume classes after a long winter vacation.
按照青海省政府发布的通告，普通高中、中等职业学校原则上3月9日至13日陆续开学。
According to the circular issued by the Qinghai provincial government, regular senior high schools and secondary vocational schools begin classes in principle from 9 to 13 March.
截至3月15日，另有贵州、西藏、新疆、山西、云南五省份公布了复学时间。
As of March 15, five more provinces in Guizhou, Tibet, Xinjiang, Shanxi and Yunnan have announced the resumption of schooling.
从上述六地公布的时间表来看，青海普通高中、中等职业学校学生最早开学。
From the schedule published in the above-mentioned six places, Qinghai general high school, secondary vocational school students as early as the start of school.
除高三、初三以外，云南中小学生将拥有一个更加漫长的寒假，直到3月30日才返校。
Except for the third year of high school and junior middle school students in Yunnan will have a much longer winter vacation until March 30.
《财经》记者统计发现，除上述六地外，其他大部分地区尚未明确复学时间。
"Caijing" reporter statistics, except for the above-mentioned six places, most other areas have not yet clearly back to school time.
专家认为，相较西部地区，境外输入压力、省际人流压力更大的东部城市，将面临更多挑战，因此“暂没有考虑开学的问题”。
Experts believe that compared with the western region, foreign input pressure, the pressure of more people in the eastern part of the province, will face more challenges, so "do not consider the issue of the start of school.
相较小学、中学，高校学生具有“跨省流动”的特点，因此，在疫情得到绝对控制前，“为了保险起见，高校很难开学”。
Compared to primary and secondary schools, college students have the characteristics of "inter-provincial mobility," so before the epidemic is absolutely controlled, "for the sake of safety, it is difficult for colleges to open schools."
各地距离全面复学还有多远？西部地区率先开学2月28日，青海省政府发布通告称，普通高中、中等职业学校原则上3月9日至13日陆续开学；初中学校原则上3月16日至20日陆续开学。
The government of Qinghai Province announced on February 28 that regular senior high schools and secondary vocational schools will, in principle, be reopened from March 9 to 13, and junior middle schools from March 16 to 20.
高等院校(含高等职业学院)及小学、特殊教育学校、幼儿园等开学时间待定。
The opening hours of higher education institutions (including higher vocational colleges) and primary, special education and kindergarten are to be determined.
3月9日，青海省首批144所普通高中和中职学校的学生重返校园，如期开学。
On 9 March, students from the first 144 regular high schools and vocational schools in Qinghai Province returned to school on schedule.
青海也成为全国首个复课的省份。
Qinghai has also become the first province to resume classes.
从公开数据来看，青海新冠疫情已得到控制。
From open data, Qinghai new crown epidemic has been brought under control.
2月21日，青海省累计18例确诊病例全部治愈出院，实现确诊病例和疑似病例清零。
On February 21, a total of 18 confirmed cases were cured and discharged from Qinghai Province, resulting in zero confirmed and suspected cases.
自2月6日起至今，青海无新增确诊病例和疑似病例。
Since February 6, there have been no new confirmed cases or suspected cases in Qinghai.
贵州则是最早公布复学时间的省份。
Guizhou is the earliest province to announce the resumption of schooling.
2月27日，贵州省教育厅官网发布通知，该省高三年级和初三年级学生将于3月16日正式开学，而其他年级开学时间，“将视下一阶段疫情防控情况，经科学评估后再确定”。
Feb. 27, Guizhou Province, the official website of the Department of Education announced that the third and third year of senior high school students will officially open on March 16, while the other grades will be reopened "subject to scientific assessment, depending on the prevention and control of the next phase of the epidemic."
除贵州、青海外，内地31个省份中，仅山西、西藏、新疆、云南公布复学时间。
In addition to Guizhou and Qinghai, only Shanxi, Tibet, Xinjiang and Yunnan provinces have announced the resumption of schooling.
其中，山西全省域高三年级“按照3月25日开学做准备”，高校应届毕业生“按四月初开学做准备”；西藏各级各类学校年暂定3月下旬开学；新疆中小学及中职学校将在3月23日开学；云南高三、初三年级定于3月23日开学，中小学其他年级3月30日开学。
The school year is tentatively scheduled to open in late March; the primary, secondary and vocational schools in Xinjiang will open on March 23; the third and third grades of senior high school in Yunnan Province will begin on March 23; and the other grades of primary and secondary schools on March 30.
从学段分布上看，除了西藏和山西外，上述公布复学安排的六个地区中，有4个省份未明确高校学生复学时间。
In terms of the distribution of schools, in addition to Tibet and Shanxi, four of the six regions where such arrangements were announced did not specify the time for college students to resume their studies.
对此，21世纪教育研究院副院长熊丙奇告诉《财经》记者，中、小学生主要是省、市、县域内的人口流动，而高校复学并不仅仅是某一个省份的事情，而是“跨省运动”，“必须做到全国上下一盘棋”。
In response, Xiong Bingqi, vice-dean of the Institute for Education in the 21st Century, told Caijing that primary and middle school students mainly move within provinces, cities and counties, and that the resumption of higher education is not just a matter for one province, but a "cross-provincial campaign" that "must be a whole nation."
3月13日，教育部应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组办公室主任王登峰在接受央视《新闻1+1》采访时提到，中国目前有4000多万的大学生，其中有1000多万是跨省流动，3000万是在省内流动。
On March 13, Wang Dengfeng, director of the Leading Group for Addressing the New Crown Pneumonia Leading Group, told CCTV News 1 + 1 that there are more than 40 million college students in China, more than 10 million of whom are moving across provinces and 30 million within the province.
王登峰表示，大学复课，流动人口多，流动范围大，对社会影响也很大。
Wang Dengfeng said that the resumption of university classes, mobile population, large mobility, social impact is also very large.
在复学的过程中，首先要解决就近的中小学开学的问题，在中小学基本上开学或者在疫情得到更进一步控制的前提下，再考虑大学的开学，“所以可以明确，大学开学要相对往后延。
In the process of getting back to school, we have to solve the problem of opening primary and secondary schools close to home first. When primary and secondary schools basically reopen, or universities begin to reopen with more control of the epidemic, "it is clear that the start of college will have to be delayed relatively later.
”首都师范大学教育学院教授劳凯声也向《财经》记者表示，高校开学必须“绝对保障全国各地的学生都回来以后也是安全的”。
"The reopening of colleges and universities must" absolutely guarantee that students from all over the country will be safe when they come back, "Lo Kaisheng, a professor at the Capital Normal University's Faculty of Education, also told Caijing.
他认为，学校是一个人群密集的地方，且生源地多元，社会流动性也比较大。
He believes that the school is a densely populated place, and the source of the diversity, social mobility is also relatively large.
因此，在疫情得到绝对控制前，为了保险起见，高校很难开学。
So, before the epidemic is absolutely contained, it is very difficult for colleges and universities to start classes just to be safe.
从地理位置上看，发布开学时间通知或已经开学的省份集中于中西部，而东部省市暂未明确复课时间。
Geographically, the provinces that have been notified of the start of the school year or have reopened are concentrated in the centre-west, while those in the east have not yet set a timetable for reopening.
熊丙奇对此解释道，中西部地区主要为劳务输出地，跨省、跨境流通压力相对较小，而上海、北京、广州等大城市，承受着较大的境外输入压力，以及复工所带来的省际人流压力，“所以暂没有考虑开学的问题”。
Xiong explained that the central and western regions are mainly labor exporting areas, with relatively little cross-provincial and cross-border circulation pressure, while large cities such as Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou are under greater pressure from overseas input and the pressure of inter-provincial traffic as a result of the resumption of work.
最长寒假尚未明确结束时间表此前受新冠肺炎疫情影响，各地学校推迟了开学时间，切换成远程授课这一新兴模式。
The longest winter break has yet to be finalized after schools across the country delayed school hours and switched to the emerging model of distance learning, affected by the outbreak of pneumonia.
“其实很多学校已经开学了，只是选择了网课教学的方式。
"In fact, many schools have been opened, only to choose the network of teaching methods.
”在熊丙奇看来，无论用什么方式上课，只是上课的途径不同，关键在于网课的质量。
The key, according to Xiong, is the quality of online classes, regardless of the mode of instruction but the way classes are conducted.
不过，《财经》记者注意到，部分学生难以适应在家学习的氛围，更有甚者，面对升学压力产生焦虑情绪。
However, Caijing reporter noted that some students find it difficult to adapt to the atmosphere of study at home, and what is more, they suffer from anxiety in the face of pressure to study.
内蒙古自治区包头市一名高三学生告诉《财经》记者，受疫情影响，他所在的重点中学发布通知，延迟了开学时间。
A senior three student in Baotou, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, told Caijing that the outbreak had delayed the start of the school year after his key secondary school had issued a notice.
自1月31日起，该校高三学生开始在家远程上课。
From January 31, the school's third year of high school students began classes remotely from home.
但这名学生认为，远程授课难以替代在校读书，“不容易集中注意力，而且家里的学习氛围也没有学校好。
But distance learning is not an easy substitute for schooling, the student said, "not easy to concentrate on, and the learning atmosphere at home is not as good as that of school."
”一名高三年级教师也向《财经》记者表示，网络授课中，学生不能像过去一样直接面对面问问题，老师也不容易知道学生的学习情况，更多要靠学生自律。
A third-grade teacher also told Caijing that students in online classes could not ask questions directly in person as they had in the past, and teachers could not easily know how students learned and relied more on self-discipline.
在他看来，开学太晚容易耽误学生，甚至还可能拖累高考，“还是希望尽早开学“。
In his view, too late to start school easy delay students, and may even drag down the college entrance examination, "or hope to start school early."
据中国青年报中青校媒调查分析，10.38%大学生在初次上网课时不太顺利，影响了学习，62.39%虽然上课不太顺利，但基本能完成课程内容，仅有27.23%的学生上课很顺利，流畅地进行了各个环节。
According to the media survey conducted by the China Youth Daily, 10.38 percent of college students had a difficult first time on the Internet, which affected their study.
远程教育的另一缺陷还在于，它无法辐射到部分贫困学生。
Another drawback of distance education is that it fails to reach some poor students.
据中国网消息，2月29日，河南邓州一名初三学生，因无钱买手机听学校网课，而大量吞服治疗精神疾病的药物，幸运的是，这名学生最终获救。
A junior high school student in Dengzhou, Henan province, was rescued on Feb. 29 after swallowing a large number of drugs to treat mental illness because he couldn't afford to buy a cell phone, according to China Daily.
“复课要建立在当地疫情得到良好控制的基础上，因地制宜。
"The resumption of classes should be based on good local epidemic control, according to local conditions.
”熊丙奇向《财经》记者表示，实际上教育部已经对学校开学做出了非常明确的要求。
Xiong told Caijing that the education ministry had in fact set very clear requirements for schools to reopen.
据2月28日教育部印发的《部署统筹做好教育系统新冠肺炎疫情防控和教育改革发展工作》，判断一个地方是否具备开学的条件，有三个原则性的要求：一、疫情没有得到基本控制前不开学；二、学校基本防控条件不具备不开学；三、师生和校园公共卫生安全得不到切实保障不开学。
On February 28, the Ministry of Education issued "Deploying to Manage the Prevention and Control of the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic and the Development of Educational Reform" to determine whether a place is eligible for the start of the school year.
更早以前的2月25日，国务院在发布《关于依法科学精准做好新冠肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》时，以附件形式发布了《中小学校新冠肺炎防控技术方案》、《大专院校新冠肺炎防控技术方案》，重点对中小学和大专院校开学前的准备、开学后的卫生防护以及出现疑似感染症状应急处置等提出了技术要求。
Earlier on February 25, the State Council issued the Technical Program for Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia in Primary and Secondary Schools and the Technical Program for Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia in Colleges and Universities.
按照国务院的要求，无论是中小学还是大专院校，在开学前都要做到每日掌握教职员工及学生健康情况，并向主管部门报告。
According to the requirements of the State Council, both primary and secondary schools and universities, before the start of the school year, should be able to daily staff and student health, and report to the competent authorities.
在开学前，学校要对全体教职员工开展防控制度、个人防护与消毒等知识和技能培训。
Before the start of the school year, schools should train all staff in knowledge and skills such as prevention and control systems, personal protection and disinfection.
同时要做好洗手液、手消毒剂、口罩、手套、消毒剂等防控物资的储备，并设立（临时）隔离室，以应对突发状况。
At the same time to do a good job of hand sanitizer, hand disinfectant, masks, gloves, disinfectant and other control materials reserves, and set up (temporary) isolation rooms to respond to emergencies.
截至3月13日，全国已有27个省份无新增新冠肺炎确诊病例，其中19个省份连续14天及以上“0新增”。
As of March 13, 27 provinces had no confirmed new cases of pneumonia, 19 of them for 14 consecutive days and more.
疫情爆发地湖北，也于3月13日实现了“疑似病例首次0新增”。
Hubei, the epicenter of the outbreak, also achieved the "first suspected case 0 new cases" on March 13.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
最长寒假何时结束？西部率先开学，多数省份未定。
When will the longest winter vacation end? The west begins first, most provinces are undecided.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "最长寒假何时结束？西部率先开学，多数省份未定";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; When did the longest winter vacation last? & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "青海、贵州、西藏、新疆、山西、云南六省份已公布开学到校时间。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Six provinces of Qinghai, Guizhou, Tibet, Xinjiang, Shanxi and Yunnan have announced their start date.
此前受新冠肺炎疫情影响，各地学校推迟了开学时间，切换成远程授课这一新兴模式，但网课质量尚有争议";。
Schools across the country have delayed starting classes and switched to a new model of distance learning, thanks to the new Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
