志愿者郑恺：他们缺的是人间最后的关爱。
Volunteer Zheng Kai: What they lack is the last love in the world.
驳静。
Calm down.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
疫情把整座城市卷进车轮，大部分人是被动的，也有一些人，主动加入，在城里奔波，心怀侠义精神，为武汉人做点事。
The epidemic brought the whole city into the wheels. Most of the people were passive, but some of them took the initiative to join in running around the city with a chivalrous spirit and doing something for the Wuhan people.
记者 | 驳静（发自武汉）摄影 | 黄宇夜 间“都有，我们什么都有。
REFUGEE & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”志愿者给我发了个定位，没说几点得到，只说防护用品齐全。
"The volunteer gave me a location, did not say when to get it, but said that the protective equipment was complete.
我匆匆准备出门，心想那自然是越快越好。
I hastened to get out, thinking that the sooner the better.
这时是晚上8点，摄影师老黄跟另一位同事出去采访，接到我消息时车刚开到酒店楼下，回来得正是时候。
It was 8 p. m., and photographer Lao Huang was out with another colleague. When I got my message, the bus had just arrived downstairs and was back just in time.
听我说完，老黄干脆没上楼。
After listening to me, Lao Huang simply didn't go upstairs.
我抓了一个口罩戴上，想了想，又往包里塞了两件隔离衣，下楼去跟他会合。
I grabbed a mask, thought about it, shoved two more paraphernalia into my bag, and went downstairs to meet him.
定位是间小酒馆，在武昌区友谊大道与和平大道之间，隔江与我们所在的酒店相望，只需穿过长江二桥，20分钟到达。
Locate is a tavern, in Wuchang District between Friendship Avenue and Peace Avenue, the next river and our hotel, just across the Yangtze River Bridge, 20 minutes to arrive.
我在车上跟老黄同步我知道的信息。
I was in the car with Lao Huang to synchronize the information I knew.
实际情况是，我知道的并不多，只知道我们前往小酒馆，与几个志愿者在那里会合。
The truth is, I didn't know much about it, except that we went to the pub and met a few volunteers there.
到小酒馆后，在这里穿戴齐整防护用品，再一同前往新冠肺炎患者家中。
When you get to the tavern, wear proper protective gear and head to the home of the New Crown Pneumonia.
接头人叫郑恺，志愿者之一，这些天一直在响应网上的求助。
The contact person is Zheng Kai, one of the volunteers, who has been responding to online requests for help these days.
微博上“肺炎患者求助超话”曝光度很高，许多情急之下无可奈何的患者，将病症等情况发到这个“超话”中，它们被大量转发，还经常以截图形式传播在微信朋友圈中。
"Pneumonia superego" on microblog exposure, many desperate patients, such as the disease into this "super-language", they are widely transmitted, often in the form of screenshots in micro-friends.
求助者的姓名与电话，就这样传播在互联网世界中。
The caller's name and phone number are thus spread in the Internet world.
2月7日晚，一位近80岁的婆婆在家中去世，志愿者将消息发在朋友圈，“奶奶没了脉搏，不需要床位了”。
When an 80-year-old mother-in-law died at home on the night of February 7, volunteers posted the news to friends, "Grandma has no pulse and no bed is needed."
郑恺与另外两位志愿者，晚上一同去处理后事。
Zheng Kai and two other volunteers went to work together in the evening.
一进小酒馆，气氛紧张，这是我到武汉的第四天。
When I entered the tavern, the atmosphere was tense. It was my fourth day in Wuhan.
我上午曾去隔离酒店，与为家人求医的年轻人周洋一同看望他爷爷，中午也曾到天佑医院门诊大厅，但都没有此时此刻气氛紧张。
I went to quarantine the hotel in the morning to see his grandfather with Zhou Yang, a young man who sought medical treatment for his family. At noon, I visited the out-patient hall of Tianyou Hospital.
我感到心跳加速，一是因为郑恺语速急促，指导我们穿戴，一面又不断接电话、发信息，仿佛有一万件事同时需要他处理。
I felt my heart beating fast. First, Zheng Kai was speaking so fast that she kept answering the phone and sending messages as if there were 10,000 things he needed to do at the same time.
二是因为小酒馆灯光暗淡，视野不清，吧台里黑漆漆，外间亮着灯，不过也勉强够看，我们沿着吧台走到酒馆最深处，在此处边穿戴边提问，像是地下党接头；地上散落几箱防护物资，桌上也有口罩等一应装备，果然如先前所说，“东西都有”。
We walked down the bar to the deepest part of the pub and asked questions like underground party connections. There were boxes of protective equipment on the floor and masks on the table. As we said before, "everything" was there.
三是因为，就在10公里外，死者家属正在等我们。
Three because, just 10 kilometres away, the families of the dead are waiting for us.
家属有儿子陆国修，年过半百，新冠肺炎确诊患者，孙女陆海月，二十出头，正不知所措。
Family members have son Lu Guoxue, over 50 years old, new crown pneumonia confirmed patients, granddaughter Lu Hai, in his early 20s, is at a loss.
出发迫在眉睫。
Departure is imminent.
两辆车，他们在前，我跟老黄紧随其后。
Two cars. They're ahead. Old Huang and I are following.
车停在武昌区中南路附近的一条街上，然后步行进入。
The bus stopped on a street near Zhongnan Road in Wuchang District and entered on foot.
夜色厚重，小区里路灯同样暗淡。
The night was heavy, and the street lights in the quarter were equally dim.
一团人围在社区服务中心门前，有穿保安制服者，也有像我们这样全副武装者，另外还有两辆派出所的SUV停在社区门口。
A crowd gathered in front of the community service center, dressed in security uniforms, heavily armed men like us, and two police station SUVs parked in front of the community.
几分钟后这两辆车先走一步，车道狭窄，调头时颇为费力，在场的人目光大都被它们吸引，目送其离开。
A few minutes later, the two cars moved ahead, their driveway narrow and struggling to turn their heads. Most of the people present were attracted by them and watched as they left.
其中一辆车的车窗缓缓落下，一个声音对着郑恺的方向说“那辛苦你们了”，郑恺圆滑应对，“应该的应该的”。
The window of one of the cars dropped slowly. A voice said to Zheng Kai in the direction of "That's hard on you".
人群外围，有一年轻姑娘，穿着粉色摇粒绒睡裤，黑色羽绒外套，脸上简单戴一口罩，面目看不大清楚，但眼睛里透着一股力量。
Outside, there was a young girl in pink velvet pajamas, a black plush coat, and a simple mask on her face.
见我同她谈话，立刻往右移动两步，“最好离我远一点”，“我虽然没做过检查，但我肯定是感染的了”。
Seeing me talking to her, I immediately moved two steps to the right, "Better stay away from me." "I didn't have a checkup, but I must be infected."
隔着大约三米，我们谈了几句。
About three metres apart, we spoke a few words.
我没敢多问，她声音里明显带哭腔，刚刚去世的，正是她奶奶。
I dare not ask, her voice is obviously crying, just passed away, it is her grandmother.
郑恺向社区工作人员咨询，新冠肺炎病人在家中离世后，接下来是何种程序。
Zheng Kai asked the community workers what the procedure would be after the death of the patient with pneumonia at home.
得知，第一，打给疾控中心，由他们派人来消毒；第二，办死亡证明；第三，殡仪馆来车把尸体接走。
First, call the CDC and have them disinfect it; secondly, issue a death certificate; and thirdly, the mortuary comes to pick up the body.
等人群散去，包括郑恺在内的三位志愿者与我、老黄以及陆海月一行人，转移阵地，前往陆海月家所在那栋楼。
As the crowd dispersed, three volunteers, including Zheng Kai and I, Lao Huang and Lu Haiyue, shifted their positions to the building where the Lunar Family lived.
此时已是晚上9点半。
It was half past nine at night.
2月7日，陆海月说，“哭解决不了任何问题，眼泪是最不值钱的东西”。
"Crying doesn't solve anything," Lu said on February 7. "Tears are the least valuable thing."
上三楼。
Upper third floor.
门开着，陆海月、三位志愿者和老黄依次入内，我殿后，等我走到门前，已经踏不进去——客厅太小了，一下挤进去五六个人，又都是穿戴着防护服、拿着工具的，已没有太多空间供人转身。
The door was open, and the moon, the three volunteers, and Old Huang went in, and behind me, when I reached the door, I could not step in -- the parlour was too small for five or six people, dressed in protective clothing and carrying tools, and there was not much room to turn around.
我站在门口张望。
I stood at the door looking.
这是个两室一厅，没有玄关，大门正对厨房门，厨房门紧闭。
It was a two-bedroom, one-hall room, with no entrance, facing the kitchen door, which was closed.
右手两间卧室门，一间关着，一间敞开，敞开的门里走出来陆国修，他正在穿外套，手里活动着，人却沉默不语，只是站在那里，没有跟众人寒暄。
The two-bedroom door of his right hand, one closed, the other open, came out of the door. Lu Guorepair was in his coat, moving in his hand, but the man was silent, and did not engage in any greeting.
而紧闭的门内，躺着几个小时前去世的陆海月的奶奶。
Within the closed door lay her grandmother, who had died a few hours earlier.
几分钟后，我还是进屋了，刚在门外听起来还比较隐约的狗叫声，变得清晰起来，听声音方向，正是正前方，想必是关在厨房里，一声紧似一声，或许是被关得久了。
A few minutes later I entered the room, the sound of which sounded fainter outside the door, and became distinctly heard, directly in front of me, and no doubt in the kitchen, with a shrill sound, or a long confinement.
陆海月收拾着两只口袋，终于问：“狗怎么办？”郑恺答：“都什么时候了，还管得了狗。
Lu Hai month pack two pockets, finally asked: "What about the dog?" Zheng Caesar: "When, still can control the dog.
”志愿者带着大喷壶，要对海月奶奶的房间大肆消毒。
The volunteers carried large pots and tried to disinfect Granny Haiyue's room.
疾控中心在电话中告诉郑恺，他们会来，但是要等，前面还排了7户。
The CDC told Zheng Kay by telephone that they would come, but there were still seven in front of them.
后来疾控中心一位30岁左右的男性工作人员向我确认，他们原本的确需要第二天才能过来消毒。
Then a 30-year-old male CDC staff member confirmed to me that they did not need to come the next day to disinfect.
7户，每户人家平均要花去他们两个小时，轮到陆家，起码得第二天中午。
It took seven families, on average, two hours per household, and Lu's turn, at least the next day at noon.
不过即便当晚消毒完毕，陆海月父女，这个晚上仍然不可能留在这间房子里过夜。
But even after disinfecting the house that night, it was impossible for the father and daughter to stay in the house overnight.
首先，从小到大，陆海月都是跟奶奶睡一个屋、一张床，虽然是头对着脚，也是亲密无间。
First of all, from small to large, land and sea with her grandmother sleep in a room, a bed, although the head to the feet, is also very close.
现在已故的奶奶不得不继续留在屋里，家里还剩一个房间，一对父女，无处可去。
Now the late grandmother had to stay indoors, with a room left, a father and daughter, and nowhere to go.
摆在郑恺面前的问题，是如何安置他们。
The question for Zheng Kai was how to settle them.
最理想的做法，当然是社区出面，给他们安排到隔离酒店。
Ideally, the community would come forward and arrange for them to be housed in a quarantined hotel.
陆国修早就确诊，核酸检测呈阳性，曾高烧39.8摄氏度，居家隔离几天后，烧退了，症状减轻，如果放到若干天后，“应收尽收”政策下，可以住进方舱医院。
Lu Guoxue has long been diagnosed with positive nucleic acid testing, a high fever 39.8 degrees Celsius, a few days after the isolation of the home, burned out, the symptoms alleviated, if put after a few days, "receivable" policy, can be admitted to the cabin hospital.
而陆海月，作为密切接触者，也该由隔离酒店接收，从做核酸检测开始，一步步往前走。
And land and sea, as close contacts, should also be received by the isolated hotel, from the beginning of nucleic acid testing, step by step forward.
但此时此刻，情势逼人，社区并没有插手的意思。
At the moment, however, the situation was pressing and the community did not mean to intervene.
我想起白天，和老黄到过一家叫作艳阳天的隔离酒店，当时是跟着年轻人周洋去看望爷爷，分明在那里看到有多间空房。
I remember going to a secluded hotel called Sunny Days with Lao Huang during the day. I followed the young man Zhou Yang to see Grandpa.
病急乱投医，我提议，可以去“艳阳天”碰碰运气。
In case of emergency, I suggest we try our luck on a sunny day.
不过，一来手中没有街道出具的证明，二来他们不在同一辖区，能被接收的可能性不大。
On the one hand, however, there was no certificate from the street and, on the other hand, they were not in the same jurisdiction and were unlikely to be accepted.
郑恺招呼陆海月父女上另一辆车，自己则上了我们的车，他在地图上找到一家最近的酒店，十几分钟可达。
Zheng Kai greeted Lu Hai's father and daughter on another car. He got into our car. He found the nearest hotel on the map and it was within ten minutes.
老黄开车，我在副驾驶，郑恺在后座，他探过身来，口中念念有词，像是与我们商量：“这酒店才200块一晚，他们又刚死了最亲的人，想再找找别的酒店。
Lao Huang drove, I was driving, Zheng Kai was in the back seat. He leaned over and said something like, "It's only 200 dollars a night.
”郑恺的意思我听明白了，一个刚失去了祖母，一个刚失去了母亲，二人这个晚上的归宿，如果是破陋的小旅店，他心中不忍。
I understood what Zheng Kay meant. One had just lost his grandmother, another had just lost his mother, and they were going to end up this evening.
两辆车行进在夜色中的武汉，这回是我们的车在前，另一辆车在后，只不过大家都不知道去往何处。
Two cars were moving through the night in Wuhan. This time our car was ahead and the other was behind, but no one knew where to go.
老黄开着车，为没有明确目的地感到踌躇，我回头看郑恺，等他拿主意。
Huang drove, hesitated over the lack of a clear destination. I looked back at Zheng Kai and waited for him to make up his mind.
犹豫几分钟后，他在后座拨通了一个电话，语气仍十分急迫：“你们今晚还有房吗”，“套间也行”，“我有钱，一万块够吗”？挂掉电话，紧急调头，他为父女二人找到一间他认为过得去的酒店。
After a few minutes' hesitation, he dialed a phone in the back seat, still in an urgent tone: "Do you have any rooms to-night," "Suite OK," "I have enough money, ten thousand bucks"? Hang up the phone and make an urgent U-turn.
出乎我意料的是，这个时期竟然还有开门迎客的酒店。
To my surprise, there was a hotel that opened its doors to welcome guests during this period.
找到落脚点，郑恺放松下来，开始同我们讲述当天下午发生的事。
Finding his footing, Zheng Kai relaxed and began to tell us what had happened that afternoon.
傍 晚2月7日傍晚发生的事，是一位病重老人离世的过程。
What happened on the evening of February 7 was the death of a very sick old man.
这几幕不容易叙述，也不容易还原，但陆海月忘不掉。
These acts are not easy to narrate, nor easy to restore, but the land and sea moon can not forget.
第三天，她住进隔离酒店，一周后，又得以住进方舱，不管换到哪里，晚上都睡不好，总想着奶奶和狗。
On the third day, she stayed in a secluded hotel, and a week later she was able to stay in the cabin again, unable to sleep well at night, wherever she moved, thinking of Grandma and the dog.
当时她和爸爸就在奶奶身边，在场者除了他们父女，郑恺也能算半个，他通过视频见到了海月奶奶最后一面。
She and her father were at Grandma's side. Besides their father and daughter, Zheng Kai could count half an hour. He saw Grandma Hai's last face via video.
陆海月一家是郑恺投入志愿者行动之后，救助的第二个家庭。
Lu Haiyue family is Zheng Kai put into the volunteer action, the rescue of the second family.
郑恺第一次去陆海月家，带了肉和泡面等食物，还有口罩和电热毯。
Zheng Kay's first visit to Lu Hai was to bring meat and noodles, as well as masks and electric blankets.
陆海月去路口接他，见他拎着两大袋东西，下着雨，没打伞。
Lu Haiyue to meet him at the junction, see him carrying two large bags of things, rain, did not take an umbrella.
陆海月心想，这种时候，连自家亲戚都不愿意上家里来了，这个人却要上楼。
Lu Hai-yue thought that at such a time, even his own relatives do not want to come to the home, but this person is going upstairs.
郑恺是那种“上楼”“到病房里去”的类型。
Zheng Kai was the sort of person who went upstairs to the ward.
不上楼，他就发现不了后来他总跟我提起的几件事，一是陆家家里几乎没吃的，二是家里非常冷，有空调，但舍不得开，没有热水器，唯一的热水来源是一只烧水的壶。
Without going upstairs, he couldn't see the few things he always told me about afterwards. One was that the Lu family had little to eat, the other was that the house was very cold and air-conditioned, but reluctant to open it.
陆海月听郑恺说，第二天他会再来。
Lu said that he would come again the next day.
自从求助信息在网上发布，陆海月接到无数电话，许多人给她出主意，让她去某个医院试试运气，让她给某个热线打电话，像郑恺这样直接杀到家里的，几乎没有。
Since the help message was posted online, Lu Hai-yue has received countless phone calls, and many people have advised her to try her luck at some hospital and ask her to call a hotline.
第二天就是2月7日。
The next day was February 7.
下午，郑恺给陆家消完毒，安抚老人家，说：“在家好好养病，一定会去医院的。
In the afternoon, Zheng Kai gave Lu Jiajie the poison, comforted the old people, said: "good health at home, will definitely go to the hospital.
”接着郑恺就去社区反映老人的情况。
"Zheng Kai then went to the community to reflect on the elderly.
一直以来，海月奶奶没有力气，生活不能自理，大小便失禁。
All the time, grandmother has no strength, life can not take care of themselves, incontinence.
最早是陆国修出现新冠肺炎症状，2月2日，陆国修去第七医院做检查，凌晨到家，CT片显示双肺感染，核酸检测结果2月5日也拿到了，是阳性。
Lu Guoxiao first appeared symptoms of pneumonia, February 2, Lu Xiu went to the seventh hospital for an examination, home in the early morning, CT scan showed two lung infections, nucleic acid test results on February 5 was also positive.
连续几天都高烧不退，之后家中一老一小相继出现症状。
High fever for a few days in a row, after the first one in the family one after another symptoms.
奶奶病后，陆海月的两个姑姑也会来送药送食物，但照顾起居、操心病床、对外求助，这些事都得依靠陆海月。
When Grandma was ill, Lu Hai-yue's two aunts would deliver medicine and food, but they had to rely on the land and sea to take care of themselves, take care of their beds and ask for help.
她腾不出空去做检测，家里两个病人，离不了人。
She had no time for a test, and there were two patients in the house who could not be separated.
不过陆海月心里明白，自己多半也得病了，她头昏，腹泻，偶尔体温会上升，并且嘴巴一直发干。
But Lu Hai-yue knew that she was probably ill too. She was dizzy, had diarrhea, had an occasional rise in temperature, and had a dry mouth.
没吃对症的药，也没做检查，陆海月依靠的是“自己的心态”，“所有的器官都在做努力”，就这么撑着。
Did not take the right medicine, nor did the examination, the land and sea rely on "their own mentality", "all organs are making efforts," and so on.
陆海月的家这天傍晚，海月奶奶靠自己爬下床，坐上痰盂。
That evening at Lu Hai's home, Granny Yue got out of bed by herself and sat on a spittoon.
痰盂受力不均，歪了，老人家倾倒在地。
The spittoon was uneven and crooked. The old man dumped it on the ground.
一片狼藉，陆海月心中慌乱，她试图把奶奶提起来，使了大劲，仍然提不动。
A mess, land and sea in the heart of panic, she tried to lift up the grandmother, made a great effort, still unable to lift.
她去隔壁房间把爸爸叫过来，两人合力，仍以失败告终。
She went to the next room and called Dad over. Together they failed.
她哭着跑去社区，想求人帮忙，与社区工作人员的交涉超过5分钟，交涉片段，陆海月录了音，她后来有播给我听。
Crying, she went to the community, asking for help, interceding with community workers for more than five minutes, negotiating clips, recording the land and sea moon, which she later broadcast to me.
我听到的是情绪越来越激动的两个人，一个是年轻姑娘，惊慌失措地去求救，一个是中年男子，听到了令他感到匪夷所思的诉求。
I heard of two men, a young girl, panicking for help, and a middle-aged man, who had heard the strange appeal.
双方不欢而散。
The two sides parted.
被社区的工作人员拒绝后，海月又赶紧跑回家。
Rejected by the community workers, Haiyue rushed home.
其间，她打了所有急救电话，又与郑恺拨通视频电话。
In the meantime, she made all the emergency calls and dialed Zheng Kai's video phone.
镜头对着奶奶，郑恺让她去试探体温，陆海月伸手试了手背、额头，“都是冰的”。
Looking at Grandma, Zheng Kai asked her to test her temperature. Lu Hainan tried the back of her hand and her forehead.
视频里，郑恺看到了老人的眼睛，瞳孔里的光消散了。
In the video, Zheng Kai saw the old man's eyes, the light in the pupil dissipated.
郑恺最后让陆海月去按颈动脉，陆海月照做，“脉搏也没了”。
Zheng Kai finally let the land and sea to press the carotid artery, land and sea moon to do, "pulse is gone."
手机“啪嗒”一声掉到地上。
The mobile phone "clicked" to the ground.
再打，陆海月就不接了。
If you fight again, land and sea won't answer.
六七分钟后，才重新通上话。
Six or seven minutes later, the conversation resumed.
陆海月后来告诉我，奶奶一直以来都没有力气，一直都给她一种快不行了的感觉，呼吸有很大问题，所以没让她戴口罩，因为一戴上口罩就更喘不上气。
Lu Hai later told me, grandmother has been no energy, has been giving her a sense of nearly no, breathing problems, so she did not wear a mask, because a respirator is more breathless.
但她能感觉到奶奶想活着，“她跟我说，自己怎么办，这样怎么办，要是有医院就好了”。
But she could feel her grandmother want to be alive. "She told me what to do, how to do, if only there were a hospital."
“我不敢相信奶奶是以这种方式离开的。
"I can't believe Grandma left in this way.
体温、脉搏，全部都试了，我还一直摇她，不动，敲她，还是一动不动。
Body temperature, pulse, all tried, I shook her all the time, did not move, knocked at her, did not move.
”讲到这里，我没再往下问，语言咽入肚中，没发出任何声响。
At this point I did not go any further, and the words sank into my stomach without making a sound.
陆海月从小由爷爷奶奶养大。
Lu Haiyue was brought up by her grandparents.
她听邻居说，她刚出生时，她妈妈把她“丢在门口”。
She heard from her neighbor that her mother had "left her at the door" when she was just born.
当时对门也住着一个孕妇，一开门看到对面家门口有一个娃，敲门，是奶奶开的。
On opening the door, she saw a baby in front of her house. She knocked at the door. It was opened by Grandma.
奶奶一看那个娃，就知道是谁，她把孩子抱回家，养了起来。
When Grandma looked at the baby, she knew who it was. She took the baby home and raised it.
很长一段时间，陆国修也不在家，他在外面打工，海月就跟爷爷奶奶相依为命。
For a long time, Lu Guoxiu was not at home, he worked outside, and Hai Yun lived with her grandparents.
直到五年前，爷爷去世，陆国修才回武汉，跟一老一小住到了一起。
Until five years ago, Grandpa died, Lu Xiu returned to Wuhan, living with an old man.
关在厨房里的狗，就是爷爷去世后开始养的，“奶奶一个人怕孤独，狗陪她这么多年。
Caged in the kitchen, Grandpa died after the start of the dog, "Grandma is afraid of loneliness, the dog with her for so many years.
她最放心不下的就是狗”。
Her biggest worry is the dog.
狗没有名字，陆海月管它叫“弟弟”。
Dogs do not have a name, land and sea called it "younger brother."
打小海月就跟奶奶睡一个屋、一张床，长大一点后是头对着脚这样睡。
She slept in a room and a bed with her grandma and slept with her head on her feet when she was a little older.
懂事起，就开始帮奶奶打胰岛素。
As soon as I was old enough, I started taking insulin for Grandma.
当然主要是奶奶自己操作，不过海月负责拿手电筒照着，早上打12个单位，上到“13”，排气，海月充当眼睛，盯着胰岛素笔上这些数字。
Granny, of course, did it all by herself, but Haiyue was responsible for shining the flashlight, hitting 12 units in the morning and going up to "13." Exhaust, the moon acted as an eye, staring at the numbers on the insulin pen.
还得负责拿棉签蘸酒精，出血了给按上。
Also be responsible for getting a cotton swab dipped in alcohol and bleeding to the top.
从前为了给海月支付学费，爷爷退休后还去琴行做保安，有一次回家路上叫车撞了，也默默回了家，腿上血淋淋一片，海月记得。
In order to pay tuition fees, Grandpa retired to do security, a car on the way home, but also quietly back home, the legs of a bloody, remember.
奶奶也非常善良，总照顾楼下的流浪狗，有时候下楼喂，实在下不去，拿绳子吊着一个碗，装上食物放下楼。
Grandmother is also very kind, always looking after the stray dog downstairs, sometimes downstairs Hey, really can not get down, with a bowl suspended with a rope, loaded food down the stairs.
一家人都特别怕麻烦别人，海月继承了这种性格。
The family are particularly afraid of trouble, the sea moon inherited this character.
自疫情在家中蔓延，并且自己也有症状以来，海月也找过社区，大都是打电话，偶尔上门去求救，也都站在门口，离人两米远。
Since the outbreak spread in the home, and their own symptoms since, Haiyue has also found the community, mostly on the phone, occasionally to the door to seek help, are also standing at the door, two meters away from people.
一直到最后情况不可控，她才上网发了求助。
It wasn't until things got out of hand that she went online for help.
更早之前郑恺，武汉本地人，1982年出生，父亲是铁路公安，他自己后来也进入铁路系统工作，在动车上做列车员，武汉九省通衢，郑恺跟着铁路跑过很多地方。
Before that, Zheng Kai, a native of Wuhan, born in 1982, whose father was a railway police officer, himself joined the railway system and worked as a conductor on the train.
不过他小时候的梦想是当警察。
But his childhood dream was to be a cop.
志愿者郑恺的自拍郑恺父亲退休之前任职于铁路公安巡警大队，当年家里有不少卷宗，反扒的、缉毒的，应有尽有。
Volunteer Zheng Kai's autograph Zheng Kai's father retired before working in the Railway Public Security Patrol Brigade, there were a lot of files, anti-drug, anti-drug, everything.
郑恺读着这些案件分析长大，从小就擅长侦查与反侦查，脑子里一派对行侠仗义、扶弱济困的向往之情。
Zheng Caesar reads these cases grow up, good at detection and anti-investigation since childhood, the brain of chivalrous, help the weak and needy yearning.
小时他经常被爹妈锁在家里，卷宗给他灵感，他想到办法，不开门不用钥匙，从七楼阳台翻出去，再毫发无损地回到家里。
When he was young, his father and mother locked him in his house, and the files inspired him, and he thought of ways to get out of the seventh-floor balcony without a key, and return home unscathed.
有一次在游戏厅兴奋过了头，忘了回家时间，爹妈一回家发现门窗是好的，孩子没了，报了警，这个捉迷藏的游戏才告一段落。
Once in the game hall excitedly, forgot to go home time, father and mother came home to find that the door and windows are good, the child is gone, reported to the police, this game of hide-and-seek is over.
除此之外就是读金庸，对侠客痴迷，最喜欢令狐冲和东方不败，前者桀骜不驯，后者特立独行，是他最喜欢的两个人物。
In addition to reading Jin Yong, the chivalrous obsession with chivalrous people, like to make foxhulong and oriental undefeated, the former is rebellious, the latter maverick, is his two favorite characters.
1998年，郑恺16岁，应征入伍，服役于湖北省武警总队。
In 1998, Zheng Kai was 16 years old. He was drafted and served in the Hubei Armed Police Headquarters.
第二年，郑恺就跟部队去抗洪，驻地在湖北省松滋市的一个县，住在一间学校。
The next year, Zheng Kai went with his troops to fight against floods. He lived in a school in a county in Songzi, Hubei Province.
有一天，郑恺与战友抬一桶热水，喊“1、2、3，抬”，战友抬早了一个数，开水眼看要荡出水桶，旁边站着个孩子，郑恺抬脚将孩子踢开，开水泼了一大片在手上。
One day, Zheng Kai and his comrades-in-arms carried a bucket of hot water, shouting "1, 2, 3, carrying."
烫伤严重，抹烫伤膏了事。
The scald is serious. Rub it and anoint it.
之后晚上巡堤，二人一组，发现“管涌”，紧急抢险，搬了不少大石块，烫伤处溃烂得更加不堪。
Later that night, patrol the embankment, a group of two, found "piping", emergency rescue, moved a lot of large stones, burns ulcers worse.
这给郑恺留下长久的后遗症，普通人徒手从蒸笼里抢个馒头，不在话下，郑恺不成，他非得用筷子夹，纸杯接热水他不敢，端碗热鸡汤也发怵。
This left a lasting legacy for Zheng Kai. The ordinary people snatched a steamed bun from the steamer with their bare hands.
手后来恢复了，心里仍对烫的东西怀有恐惧。
His hands recovered, and he was still afraid of the hot stuff.
在部队服役五年，郑恺错过当警察的机会，退役后进了铁路局。
After five years in the army, Zheng Kai missed the chance to become a policeman and retired to the railway office.
直到前几年，他还在动这方面的脑筋，听说法国有一个“外籍军团”武装部队，允许外籍国民加入，被军团接收后，能干五年，“有犯罪记录的也可以抹去，获得新身份”。
Until a few years ago, he used to think about it, hearing that France had an armed "legion of foreigners" that allowed foreign nationals to join, be accepted into the army for five years, and that "anyone with a criminal record can be erased and given a new identity."
他在网上研究，后来觉得这条路过于艰难，终于作罢。
He studied on the Internet, and later felt that the passage was difficult and finally finished.
不过在列车上工作，也能碰到冒险经历。
But working on a train can be an adventure.
从深圳回武汉列车上有位常客，时常给郑恺一两包烟，郑恺对他有印象。
From Shenzhen back to Wuhan on a regular train, often give Zheng Kay a pack or two of cigarettes, Zheng Kai was impressed with him.
有一回二人聊起了天，郑恺带他下车，请他喝酒唱歌。
Once when they had a talk, Zheng Cai took him out of the car and invited him to drink and sing.
酒过三巡，对方借郑恺手机打电话，一打就再没回来。
After three drinks, the other party borrowed Zheng Kai's cell phone, a dozen never came back.
手机是诺基亚E71，上市没多久，还挺值钱。
The mobile phone is Nokia E71, which is worth a lot of money.
郑恺从对方留下的手机里找到线索，冒充姑娘，加他QQ，还真把人给找着了。
Zheng Kay found clues from the other side's cell phone, pretended to be a girl, added him QQ, and really found someone.
就在一个网吧，郑恺带着几个人把这家伙给揍了一顿，把人给押进了派出所。
Just in an Internet cafe, Zheng Cai and a few people gave this guy a beating, put people into the police station.
郑恺把年轻时的照片给我看过，相貌堂堂，很有“小生”像，部队五年，身体底子也好，做起事来很不惜力。
Zheng Kai showed me the photos of his youth. He was handsome and had the image of a "little boy."
现在自己的城市遇到劫难，郑恺想各种办法出力。
Now his own city met with disaster, Zheng Caesar thought of various ways to contribute.
最开始是帮人对接一点物资，偶尔送一趟货到医院，零星做点事。
The first is to help people docking a bit of material, occasionally send a shipment to the hospital, sporadic do something.
有一天在朋友圈看到李淼的情况，他问朋友，情况是否属实。
One day he saw Li Miao in a circle of friends and asked him if it was true.
很快他就入了几个群，在群友支持下，迅速去医院看望李淼，比接触陆海月一家早不了几天。
Soon he joined several groups and, with the support of his group, quickly went to the hospital to see Li Miao, not many days before he came in contact with the family.
志愿者的防护用品也并不达标，只能是尽力为之（摄于2月7日）现在想来，李淼与陆海月一家真是非常相似。
The volunteers were not up to standard in their protective gear either. They had to do their best (February 7). Now, Li Miao is very much like the Lu and Moon family.
李淼才上初中，与他奶奶相依为命。
Li Miao just went to junior high school and lived with his grandmother.
郑恺见到李淼的时候，已经有志愿者把他奶奶送到医院，不过当时床位紧张，李淼奶奶就在留观室吸氧、耗着。
When Zheng miao met Li, volunteers had taken his grandmother to the hospital, but when the bed was tight, Grandma Li miao was in the observation room.
李淼到医院楼下见郑恺时，抵触情绪非常重，他第一句话是：“要是我奶奶没了，我就跟她一起死。
When Li Miao met Zheng Caesar downstairs, his first words were: "If my grandmother died, I would die with her.
”郑恺去李淼家里，第一件事仍是消毒。
"Zheng Caesar went to Li Miao's house.
拖地时，第一个拖把拖一下，断了，李淼又找出一个，一拖，又断了，郑恺随口问：“你们家没个好的拖把吗？”孩子说了一句：“我们家的拖把都是奶奶捡回来的。
When the first mop mowed the floor, it broke, and Li Miao found another one and pulled it off again. Zheng Kai casually asked, "Don't you have a good mop in your house?" The child said, "Granny picked up all the mop in our house.
”这两句话对郑恺刺激很大。
"These two words were very exciting for Zheng Kai.
至于陆海月，存在郑恺心中的话是“家里只有这么大一个壶能烧点热水”，以及“十几天没洗澡了”。
As for Lu Hai-yue, Zheng Kai's words were "the only big pot in the family that can boil some hot water" and "ten days without a bath."
话语交织在郑恺心中，使他不认可那些更理性的救助方式。
The words interwoven in Zheng Kai's heart made him disapprove of the more rational ways of rescuing him.
他投入很多感情，试图做更多。
He threw himself into a lot of emotions and tried to do more.
他给李淼远在四川的生母打电话，搞明白了这一家人，为何只有一老一小。
He managed to meet many people, calling his biological mother in Sichuan, and found out why there was only one old man and one child.
他妈妈有自己的难处，在四川很努力地忘掉过去，过自己的生活。
His mother has her own difficulties, in Sichuan very hard to forget the past, live their own life.
孩子从小缺乏父爱，或许因此对大20多岁的郑恺逐渐信任。
Children from a lack of fatherly love, perhaps as a result of some 20-year-old Zheng Kai gradually trust.
李淼的电话公布到网上，最开始几天，两秒钟就来一个电话，大部分询问需要什么帮助，孩子小，不懂分辨，把一句话复述给无数人听，郑恺跟他说：“不要去接所有电话，以后有叔叔帮你。
When Li Miao's telephone was posted on the Internet, there was a phone call in the first few days and two seconds. Most of the questions asked for help.
”依靠武汉大学校友会的力量，李淼的奶奶住上了院。
"Relying on the strength of the Wuhan University Alumni Association, Li Miao's grandmother lived in the hospital.
郑恺又扮演另一个角色，他跟青春期的李淼讲道理，说服孩子，奶奶现在已经算是幸运的，别再去想那些叛逆的事。
Zheng Kai played another role. He reasoned with Li Miao, an adolescent, to convince her that Grandma was lucky now. Don't think about the treachery.
陆海月已经比同龄人心理成熟一些，郑恺就跟她讲“失去”的道理，一个人活着，总要经历这些，五年前爷爷是一次，现在是第二次。
Lu Hai-yue has been more mature than her peers. Zheng Kai told her about the "lost" truth that a person has to go through these things.
“把事情做完，心里才会比较舒服”，“帮人就要帮到底”，郑恺属于这样一类角色。
"Finish things, the heart will be more comfortable", "to help people to the end," Zheng Kai is such a role.
为人冲动，年轻时为爱自杀过，割左手动脉，疤还在手腕；生活有过大起大落，现在属于“落”的时期，要不也不会搬回家跟父母住；爱交朋友，口头禅是“等疫情结束我们喝一顿酒”，2月7日以来，光是跟我就说过不下五回。
Being impulsive, suicidal when young, cutting left-handed arteries, scars still on the wrist; life has gone up and down, now it's a time of falling, or moving home to live with parents; making friends, the mantra is, "We'll have a drink when the epidemic is over," and since February 7, I alone have said no less than five times.
他还爱逞能，心底的侠客梦时时作祟，遇事绝不独善其身，小区封了，郑恺为了出去帮忙，白天翻出墙去，夜里再悄悄翻回来。
He also love to be brave, the chivalrous dream of the bottom of my heart is constantly haunting, not alone, the community sealed, Zheng Kai to go out to help, day to dig out the wall, quietly back at night.
我心里琢磨，倘若从他自己喜欢的金庸人物里去找对应，多半不是什么大侠，而是像江南七怪那样的人物，武功算不上大名堂，可不妨碍他们在江湖上管个闲事。
I thought to myself that if I looked for a match from his favorite Jin Yong personage, it would not be some kind of chivalrous man, but someone like the Jiangnan Strange.
他在朋友圈里写，每个家庭缺的不是钱，缺的是人间最后的关爱。
He wrote in the circle of friends, every family is not lack of money, is the last love on earth.
后 来再把思绪拉回到2月7日晚。
Then bring your thoughts back to the night of February 7.
因为这个晚上，并没有因为将父女二人送到酒店而结束。
Because this evening, did not end because of the father and daughter sent to the hotel.
陆海月父女在酒店大堂测了体温，都正常，酒店允许他们住下。
Lu Haiyue father and daughter in the lobby of the hotel took temperature, all normal, the hotel allows them to stay.
安顿好二人，郑恺再松一口气，以为这漫长的一天总算结束。
When they were settled down, Zheng Kai breathed a sigh of relief that the long day was over.
另一辆车已经撤了，老黄和我打算先把郑恺送回家。
The other car had been evacuated. Lao Huang and I were going to take Zheng Kai home first.
车开出不到10分钟，郑恺又接到电话，说疾控中心一会儿就去小区，到死者家中消毒。
Less than 10 minutes later, Zheng Kai received a phone call saying that the CDC would go to the neighborhood in a few minutes to disinfect the deceased's home.
于是我们再次调转车头，去酒店接陆海月。
So we turned the car around again and went to the hotel to pick up the moon.
这个晚上，我们第二次到了中南街道的这个小区里。
This evening, we made our second visit to this small area of the south-central street.
这次，除了疾控中心的两位工作人员和陆海月，其余没有任何人上楼去。
This time, apart from the CDC staff and Lu Hai-yue, no one else went upstairs.
我站在离楼道口四五米远的地方观望，看到他们两人穿的防护用品呈橡胶质感，更笨拙，也更密闭。
Standing four or five metres from the entrance to the hallway, I saw that the protective equipment they were wearing was rubber-textured, clumsier and more sealed.
10分钟后，消毒人员下楼，迫不及待地要脱掉全身的装备，他们的表情，看上去非常难受。
Ten minutes later, the disinfectors came downstairs, eager to take off their gear, their expressions looking very uncomfortable.
另一位他们的同事拎着一根管子走过去，转过身我才看见，一个大号喷壶背在身上，跟洒农药的家伙什儿很像。
Another of their colleagues walked by with a tube and turned around until I saw a large spray bottle on the back, much like the guy who sprayed the pesticide.
脱衣服之前，洒一遍，脱掉后，又洒一遍。
Before you undress, sprinkle, remove, and sprinkle again.
我跟陆海月说：“你也过去，叫他给洒洒。
I said to Lu Hai-yue: "You also go, let him sprinkle.
”2月7日晚，疾控中心正在给工作人员消毒。
On the night of February 7, the CDC was disinfecting staff.
疾控中心一开始不乐意，说“这东西很刺激”，但还是对着陆海月洒了洒。
At first, the CDC was reluctant to say, "It's exciting," but sprinkled it on the land and sea.
郑恺也走了过去，伸出戴着手套的双手接受高浓度消毒液的洗礼。
Zheng Kai also went over and held out her gloved hands for the baptism of high concentration disinfectant.
消完毒，遗体仍然运不走，需等到第二天，办完死亡证明，殡仪馆才能来车。
After the poison, the body still can not be transported, until the next day, after the death certificate, the funeral parlour can not come.
于是，我们开着车，第三次前往那家酒店。
So we drove off to the hotel for the third time.
这时已经过了凌晨，老黄从头天早上9点开始，分别跟两位记者采访，还没歇过一刻，此时已非常疲惫，于是把四扇窗户大开，四下透风。
By this time it was past 9: 00 in the morning, Huang had interviewed two journalists respectively. He had not rested for a moment, so he opened four windows and breathed freely.
凉意就趴着窗口，随时要冲进来。
Cool on the window, ready to rush in.
我摘掉帽子和护目镜，想透口气，只听陆海月说：“狗的事，我想通了。
I took off my hat and goggles and tried to catch my breath. Then I listened to Lu Hai-yue and said, "I've figured it out.
”陆海月答应过奶奶要好好照顾狗，但就像郑恺说的，都什么时候了，还管得了狗。
Lu promised Grandma to take good care of the dog, but as Zheng Kai said, it was time to take care of the dog.
“狗的毛发上可能会携带病毒，如果放出去，怕给人造成影响。
"Dogs may carry the virus on their hair, and if released, they're afraid of causing effects.
其二是，它很乖，但也很胆小，每次出去只会被别的狗欺负。
Second, it is very good, but also very timid, each time out will only be bullied by other dogs.
”陆海月这样自我安慰。
"Lu Hai-yue consoled herself.
说是想通了，道理也讲得挺明白，后来几次跟陆海月聊天，每当提到狗，她就开始哽咽。
Say is to think, the reason also quite clear, and then a few times with the land and sea moon chat, whenever the dog, she began to choke.
她后来住到隔离酒店，晚上听到外面狗叫，心里就发酸，告诉自己，这是不得已。
She later lived in a secluded hotel, and when she heard the dog barking outside at night, she felt sour and told herself that it was necessary.
再后来住进方舱医院，睡觉的时候也总惦记它。
And then into the cabin hospital, when sleeping always think of it.
最后一次离开家，陆海月把一桶狗粮放在桌上，后来一直后悔，担心位置放高了，“但愿它的求生欲，能迫使它把狗粮扑下来吃”。
The last time he left home, Lu Haiyue put a pail of dog food on the table, and later regretted it, worried about its high position.
没有排到优先级而被过早放弃的狗，令人泪下。
Dogs that are not prioritised and abandoned prematurely are tearful.
2月8日，郑恺送陆海月住到酒店的做法，迎来了后果。
On February 8, Zheng Kai sent Lu Hai-yue to stay at the hotel.
出资的基金会不认可郑恺的做法，决定不再与他合作，他只好又开始“单干”。
The foundation did not approve of Zheng Kai's approach and decided not to cooperate with him any more.
陆海月与她爸爸留宿的酒店房间，被闻讯而来的警察封了起来。
Lu Hai-yue and her father stayed in the hotel room, the police were informed to seal up.
父女二人再次无处可去。
They had nowhere else to go.
陆海月跟她爸爸住到酒店，显然将传染风险带到此处。
Lu Hai-yue and her father live in a hotel, apparently bring the risk of infection here.
我问郑恺，他是怎么想的。
I asked Zheng Kai what he thought.
郑恺说，当晚的确是个“两难”，但他做不到就这样让这对父女回家去。
Zheng Kai said the evening was indeed a "dilemma," but he could not do so and let the father and daughter go home.
最好的办法当然是找到一个空的房子，可哪儿有这么理想化的房子。
The best way, of course, is to find an empty house, but where there is such an idealized house.
至于风险和隐患，郑恺只好明知不可为而为之了。
As for the risks and pitfalls, Zheng Kai knew he could not.
但对陆海月来说，这个晚上在酒店，终于洗上了热水澡，这是十几天来的第一次。
But for land and sea, this evening at the hotel, finally washed up in a hot bath, this is the first time in more than a decade.
这一天，一切发生得太快太突然。
This day, everything happened too fast and too suddenly.
直到躺下，陆海月才意识到，爸爸也很难过，他在不远处的另一张床上，背对着自己，正在哭，但是不想叫她发现。
It was not until he lay down that Lu Hai-yue realized that he, too, was sad. He was in the other bed not far away, with his back to himself, crying, but he did not want her to find out.
后来陆海月进方舱，穿的衣服都是郑恺给的。
Later the moon entered the cabin, wearing clothes were given by Zheng Kai.
2月8日这一天，发生的事情也很多。
On 8 February, much also happened.
她爸爸得到入住方舱机会，当天下午步行去了武昌方舱医院。
Her father was given the opportunity to check in and walked to Wuchang Fang Hospital that afternoon.
留下陆海月一人，又是一个不知能留宿何处的夜晚。
Leaving the land, sea and moon, is another night where I don't know where to stay.
郑恺想到了李淼。
Zheng Kai thought of Li Miao.
当时李淼的奶奶已经住进医院，他愿意收留这个无家可归的姐姐一晚。
Li Miao's grandmother had been admitted to the hospital and he was willing to take in the homeless sister for the night.
同是天涯沦落人。
The ends of the earth.
我听陆海月提起李淼，说的是“弟弟”，“跟弟弟加了微信”，“慢慢也知道了弟弟的情况”。
I listened to Lu Hai month mention Li Miao, said is "younger brother", "with younger brother added micro-letter", "slowly know the younger brother's condition."
我分别问过陆海月和郑恺，疫情结束后，想做什么。
I asked Lu Haiyue and Zheng Kai, respectively, what they wanted to do after the epidemic ended.
郑恺的答案是两个字，“赚钱”。
Zheng Kai's answer was "making money."
他今年38岁，尚未结婚，有一个谈了6年的女朋友，人生还有很多计划可做。
He is 38 years old, unmarried, has a girlfriend of 6 years, and has a lot of plans to do in life.
不过眼下，郑恺还在参与武汉的救助，单兵作战了几天后，2月23日，他开始在一家养老院担任起安保工作，当天还问我“能不能搞到N95口罩”。
However, Zheng Kay is still involved in Wuhan rescue, a few days after a single combat, February 23, he began to work in a nursing home security, the same day asked me "can I get the N95 mask."
陆海月才24岁，在城市里颠沛流离几日后，总算在方舱医院找到一点安稳的感觉。
Lu Hai only 24 years old, in the city after a few days of wandering, finally found a little security in the cabin hospital.
还是思念奶奶，还是在担心狗。
Or miss Grandma, or worry about the dog.
不过这里有非常温柔的护士姐姐，每天伙食不错，有牛奶也有水果，有时晚上还有夜宵。
But there were very gentle sisters and nurses. Every day there was good food, milk and fruit, and sometimes supper at night.
她说，她想要改掉以往懒散的毛病，等疫情结束，找一份稳定的工作，跟爸爸两个人好好生活。
She said she wanted to get rid of her lethargy and wait until the epidemic was over to find a stable job and live well with her father.
（除郑恺外，其余所有采访对象为化名）作者档案驳静三联记者，喜欢听故事、说人话。
(With the exception of Zhengcai, all the other interviewees are pseudonyms) The author files refute the three journalists, like to listen to stories and tell personal words.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博、豆瓣都是：驳静 大家都在看请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
Lifestyle Weekend Personal Weibo, Douban are: everyone is reading please stamp! Lifestyle Weekly New Crown Pneumonia series article copyright of the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact backstage.
点击图片，一键下单「应对不确定性」▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to a weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you come over to our office
。
.
驳静。
Calm down.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
志愿者郑恺：他们缺的是人间最后的关爱。
Volunteer Zheng Kai: What they lack is the last love in the world.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "志愿者郑恺：他们缺的是人间最后的关爱";。
var msg _ title = & quot; volunteer Zheng Kai: They lacked the last care and quot;;
var msg_desc = "疫情把整座城市卷进车轮，大部分人是被动的，也有一些人，主动加入，在城里奔波，心怀侠义精神，为武汉人做点事。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The epidemic rolled the whole city into the wheels. Most were passive. Some, too, volunteered to join in the city, doing something for the Wuhan people in a chivalrous spirit.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '台湾诗人杨牧去世：让风朗诵，那最后的诗篇',。
At the death of Taiwan poet Yang Mu: Let the wind recite, and last verse & apos;.
subject_name: '三联生活周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
