一个湖北水果店老板的自救：销售额腰斩仍不裁员，期待帮扶政策出台。
Hubei fruit store owner's self-help: Sales halved is still not layoff, looking forward to the help policy.
王晓珊。
Wang Xiaoshan.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
在防控的前提下，推动各类生产企业复工复产，成为近日各地的着眼点。
Under the premise of prevention and control, to promote the resumption of various types of production enterprises, has become the focus of recent days.
然而，疫情仍在肆虐，对众多中小微企业的影响也在逐渐体现。
However, the epidemic is still raging, and the impact on a large number of MSMEs is gradually being felt.
为帮扶受疫情影响的中小企业，苏州、上海、北京、珠海等地都出台了相关帮扶举措。
To help small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the epidemic, Suzhou, Shanghai, Beijing, Zhuhai and other places have launched relevant assistance measures.
2月2日，江苏省苏州市在全国率先出台支持政策，从加大金融支持、稳定职工队伍、减轻企业负担三个方面发力，帮助因疫情影响生产经营遇到困难的中小企业，具体包括加大金融支持、缓缴社保费用、减免中小企业房租、税费以及减免房租等。
On February 2, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, took the lead in introducing support policies in three areas: increasing financial support, stabilizing the workforce and reducing the burden on enterprises, and helping small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) experiencing difficulties due to the epidemic, including increased financial support, delayed payment of social security fees, rent relief for small and medium-sized enterprises and rent relief.
2月3日，上海市人社局发布四项举措减轻企业负担，包括实施失业保险稳岗返还政策、推迟调整社保缴费基数、可延长社会保险缴费期、实施培训费补贴政策。
On February 3, the Shanghai Municipal People's Bureau announced four measures to ease the burden of enterprises, including implementing the unemployment insurance return policy, postponing the adjustment of the social security contribution base, extending the social insurance contribution period and implementing the subsidy policy for training fees.
北京2月3日出台的“若干举措”规定，企业因受疫情影响导致生产经营困难的，可以通过与职工协商一致采取调整薪酬、轮岗轮休、缩短工时、待岗等方式稳定工作岗位，尽量不裁员或者少裁员。
If an enterprise has difficulties in production and operation due to the impact of the epidemic, it may, through consultation with the workers, adopt measures to stabilize their jobs, such as adjusting remuneration, rotating vacations, shortening working hours and waiting periods, so as not to lay off staff or lay off workers.
符合条件的企业，可按规定给予失业保险费返还。
Eligible enterprises may be reimbursed unemployment insurance premium according to regulations.
对因受疫情影响经营暂时出现困难但有发展前景的企业不抽贷、不断贷、不压贷。
For the business affected by the epidemic temporarily difficult but promising enterprises do not draw loans, loans, non-pressure.
2月5日晚，珠海市发布“暖企”十条，涉及劳动用工补贴、科技项目攻关、贷款贴息补贴、贷款风险共担、个人金融业务保障、租金减免优惠、税费减免、税费延期缴纳、进出口业务支持和应急公共法律服务等内容。
On the night of Feb. 5, Zhuhai issued 10 "Heating Enterprises," covering labor subsidies, key projects in science and technology, subsidized interest rates on loans, loan risk sharing, personal financial business guarantee, rent reduction and exemption, tax reduction and exemption, tax payment extension, import and export business support and emergency public legal services.
当前，武汉的中小企业正积极寻求自救。
At present, Wuhan SMEs are actively seeking self-help.
天香果园是湖北规模最大的水果连锁企业，目前门店100余家，覆盖武汉、鄂州、黄冈、黄石、孝感、咸宁、仙桃等城市，这些城市也是当前疫情较为严重的地区。
Tianxiang Orchard is the largest fruit chain in Hubei Province. There are more than 100 fruit chains in Hubei Province, covering cities such as Wuhan, Huizhou, Huanggang, Yellowstone, filial piety, Xianning and Xiantao.
作为受疫情影响最严重的水果零售企业，天香果园希望在困境中能够找到自己的自救之路。
As the fruit retail enterprises most seriously affected by the epidemic, Tianxiang Orchard hopes to find its own way to save itself in difficult circumstances.
记者 | 王晓珊编辑 | 小豆 盛倩玉一个武汉水果连锁店老板的自述武汉天香果园商贸有限公司创始人 安琦口述我们算是最早知道疫情发生的那批人，然而当时的信息都显示，这只是一个简单的感染事件，实在没想到后来会发展得这么严重。
Anqi Oral, founder of Wuhan Tianxiang Orchard Trading Co., a Wuhan fruit chain owner, tells us we were the first people to know about the outbreak, but all the information at the time suggests it was a simple infection that never bothered to grow.
如果疫情没发生，按照惯例，我和家人会回到老家武汉市黄陂区祁家湾街道过年，大家相互拜年、串门、舞狮、放烟花。
If the outbreak did not happen, my family and I would return to the Qijiawan street of Huangpi District, Wuhan City, to celebrate the Spring Festival.
祁家湾还是非物质文化遗产舞狮的地方，甚至汉口都会有很多人来我们老家看舞狮。
Qi Jia Wan is also an intangible cultural heritage lion dance place, even Hankou will have a lot of people to watch the lion dance in our hometown.
然而今年疫情爆发后，热闹的景象不见了，只看见到处都在消毒，人们出门都是带着口罩，见面也不怎么寒暄。
However, after the outbreak this year, the bustle of the scene disappeared, only to see disinfection everywhere, people are wearing masks outside, not too pleasant to meet.
对于我们做生意的来说，往年春节都是收获的季节，也是销售收入比较好的时候。
For us to do business, Spring Festival in previous years is the harvest season, but also relatively good sales revenue time.
在除夕的前两天到初十之间，我们门店的业绩会是平时的三倍，现在只有不到1/3。
Between the first two days of New Year's Eve and the tenth day of junior high school, the performance of our stores will be three times more than usual, now less than one third.
很多时候，我们门店还会出现排队购买的现象，现在是见不到了。
Most of the time, we still have queuing up to buy phenomenon, now is not seen.
高层分三方坐镇防意外情况虽然疫情严重，但我们公司还是属于较早作出应对措施的。
High-level tripartite sitting town to prevent accidents Although the outbreak of serious, but our company is still an early response.
疫情发生后，我们在1月23日成立了公司抗击疫情指挥部，高层分成几个小组，分割开来工作，用电话会议形式进行沟通，以防万一高层干部被感染，使公司正常运转受影响，一个在宁波，一个在厦门，而我自己在武汉坐镇，这样即使一个地方沦陷了，依然有其他地方的领导能够迅速顶上，保证公司正常运转。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, on January 23, we set up the Company's Anti-epidemic Command, which was divided into high-level groups, working separately and communicating by teleconference, in case senior cadres were infected and the company's normal operations were affected.
随后我们立刻采购防御物资，譬如酒精、口罩等。
Then we immediately buy Defence Materiel, such as Alcohol, Mask, etc.
当时我们弄到了1万个口罩，拿到后第一时间就下发给所有门店，门店每天进行消毒并公示；身体不适的员工马上隔离观察。
At the time, we acquired 10,000 surgical masks, which were delivered to all stores immediately after they were delivered. The stores were disinfected and advertised daily; employees who were unwell were immediately quarantined.
现在看来，当时我们的防御工作做对了，目前为止我们公司员工还没有出现感染的。
Now it seems that we did the right thing at the time, so far our employees have not been infected.
但在这个过程中，实在太多不确定因素了，很多时候让人猝不及防。
But in the process, there are too many uncertainties, many of which can be caught off guard.
生鲜卖不掉就烂掉，预计损失300万我们今年囤货的时候相对保守，大概只存了够卖三、四天的货，价值800万左右，而且都是储存期短的鲜品。
Unsold or rotten, estimated to lose 3m We hoarded our stock relatively conservatively this year, probably saving enough for three or four days worth about $8 million, and all of it fresh and short-lived.
疫情的爆发，让很多城市突然宣布封城。
The outbreak of the outbreak caused many cities to suddenly declare the city closed.
这期间车不能走，人也出不来，货物不能进出、无法售卖，这意味着我的货只能放在门店里面烂掉。
During this time, cars can't go, people can't get out, goods can't go in and out, can't sell, which means my goods have to rot in the store.
像车厘子，一箱要几百块，现在都卖不出去，即使是送也没人要，而这些鲜货到期就只能扔掉。
Like a cart, it costs a few hundred dollars a case. It can't be sold now. No one wants it, even if it's delivered.
一个店的库存起码是几千、上万块，这里都是损失。
A store inventory of at least a few thousand, tens of thousands of dollars, here is a loss.
水果批发市场几乎停摆，档口不能正常营业，为春节预备的库存无法正常销售。
Wholesale fruit market almost stopped, the file is not normal business, the stock for the Spring Festival can not be sold normally.
销售额的下降还带来了库存积压，生鲜商品储存期短，我们预计会产生约300万的损失。
The decline in sales has also led to a backlog of stocks and a short shelf life for fresh commodities, which we expect to generate some 3 million dollars in losses.
道路的封锁断了我们的物流，很多地方车辆进出受阻，我们目前的货物运输不通畅意味着我们拿不到货，即使能够拿到货放到总仓，也无法配送到其他门店。
The blockage of roads has cut off our logistics, vehicles have been blocked in many places, and our current lack of access to goods means that we cannot get them and even if we can get them to the main warehouse, they cannot be delivered to other stores.
譬如原来送货从A点到B点，再回到A点，两点之间距离不到100km，通常我们的送货司机得4个小时，但现在可能要8-10小时，但这还不确保一定能送到。
We usually get 4 hours for delivery, but now it may take 8-10 hours, but that doesn't guarantee delivery.
我们理解封城主要是为了控制疫情，只是希望不同城市封城前，能够提前告知企业，让我们做好准备。
We understand that the closure of the city is mainly to control the epidemic, just hope that different cities before the closure, can inform enterprises in advance, let us be prepared.
突然封城，很多货物要调动也调动不了，员工想回家的回不了，想来的也来不了。
Sudden closure of the city, many goods have to be transferred can not be mobilized, employees want to go home can not come back, want to come.
这次疫情我们所有的门店都位于重点疫区，运输受阻，客流稀少，门店销售额腰斩。
This outbreak of all our stores are located in key epidemic areas, blocked transport, a sparse flow of passengers, shop sales halved.
原来的客单是100单，现在只有40单，减少一半以上，40单中有40%是通过线上购买的。
The original list of 100 tickets is now 40, a reduction of more than half, with 40 per cent of 40 orders purchased online.
现在进店的人寥寥无几，客流量减少了大概70-80%。
Fewer people are coming in now, and traffic is down by about 70-80%.
天香果园现在有100家直管店和9家加盟店，2月3日，公司已经有30多家门店在歇业。
Tianxiang Orchard now has 100 direct-management shops and 9 franchises, and on February 3, more than 30 stores were closed.
到了2月4日，我们收到通知说武汉以外的门店都不给营业。
On February 4, we were informed that all stores outside Wuhan were closed.
现在只有不到一半的店在营业，虽然我们已经提前做了很多准备，但遇到这种突发的情况我们真的无能为力。
Fewer than half of the stores are open now, and although we've made a lot of preparations in advance, there's really nothing we can do about it.
天香果园每个月的房租和工资加起来大概要500-600万，如果我们销售额没有了，就没有利润去支付这笔费用，未来公司经营难保不出现问题，那我就只能陆续关店。
Tian xiang orchard monthly rent and wages add up to about 5-6 million, if we do not have sales, there will be no profit to pay for the expenses, the future of the company will be difficult to ensure that there are no problems, then I can only continue to close shop.
员工关键时刻与公司共克时艰这次比较难得的是，公司很多员工在关键时刻愿意挺身而出，与公司一起共克时艰。
This is a rare moment for many employees of the company to step forward and work together to overcome the difficult times together.
之前我们有一个店长，在年初二的时候被家人强行接回家了。
Before we had a store director, in the second day of the year was forcibly taken home by the family.
后来她在家里和家属沟通，说“店里还有几十万的货，如果是自己的店，会忍心看着它烂吗？”第二天，店长的爱人开车把她送回店里继续工作。
Then she talked to her family at home and said, "There are hundreds of thousands of goods in the store, and if it's your own, will you have the heart to watch it rot?" The next day, the owner's wife drove her back to work.
目前公司还有一半员工留守在武汉，但是这一半的员工已经在高压态势下持续工作半个月。
Half of the company's employees remain in Wuhan, but half of them have been working under high pressure for half a month.
现在很多门店就是一个人上班，一上就是一天班。
Now many stores are a single person at work, one day on the shift.
虽然因为客流量减少，每天工作时长已经由15个小时改为8个小时，但很多人已经连续工作20天了，对员工来说压力还是挺大。
While the number of hours worked per day has changed from 15 to 8 as a result of reduced passenger traffic, many have been working for 20 consecutive days, and the pressure on staff remains high.
以往一个店至少有5个人，现在可能只有1-2人，又要收银、又要打包、整理货物，还要去送货、消毒，所有工作都积压在一起。
There used to be at least five people in a store, but now there may be only one or two. There is a backlog of cashiering, packing, packing, shipping, disinfecting.
附近的餐馆基本上都关门了，员工想吃个外卖都很难，只能从超市里买点泡面吃，一吃就是好几天。
Restaurants nearby are almost closed, and it's hard for employees to eat a takeaway. Instead, they buy noodles from a supermarket and eat it for days at a time.
以往员工是身体上劳累，但现在有些员工可能看到朋友圈、抖音上的负面消息，造成心理负担很大，有一两个员工已经辞职了。
In the past, employees were physically tired, but now some employees may see negative news on their circle of friends and jitters, causing a lot of psychological stress. One or two employees have resigned.
但是没有离职的员工，我们依然会继续发基本保障的工资，也不打算裁员。
But if we do not leave, we will continue to pay the basic protection of the wage, nor do we plan to lay off workers.
我们企业不能倒，假如我们倒了，可能会影响到1000个员工，进而影响到1000个员工的家庭，这样整个就业率都会下降。
If we fail, it could affect 1,000 workers, and then the families of 1,000 employees. That would reduce the overall employment rate.
“不是看谁能救你，而是要积极自救”2月3日，我还给这个同行里的一个老大哥打电话，他告诉我：“现在我们要思考的问题不是看谁能救你，而是要自己积极采取自救的方式。
"It's not about who can save you, it's about saving yourself." On February 3, I called an older brother in the profession who told me, "Now the question we have to think about is not who can save you, but how to help ourselves.
”我也蛮认同他的话，一个企业的发展肯定会遭遇到不少的考验，可能越是大的一些灾难、苦难，更能够锻炼一支队伍。
I quite agree with him that the development of an enterprise is bound to encounter many trials, perhaps the greater the number of disasters, suffering, more able to train a team.
但不可否认的是，像我们这种体量的公司都感受到压力的话，那些在管理、效率、应急反应上迟缓的企业肯定更困难，可能很多无可避免就要被淘汰掉。
But there is no denying the fact that companies of our size feel pressured, and those that are slow to manage, efficient, and respond quickly are bound to find it more difficult, and many will inevitably be phased out.
当前很多地区已经陆续出台企业帮扶政策，但因为湖北是疫情重灾区，大家关注的重点依然在救人救命上，在恢复整个经营秩序这一块可能还是相对滞后一些。
At present, many areas have successively issued enterprise assistance policy, but because Hubei is the most serious area of the epidemic, people are still focused on saving lives, in the restoration of the overall management order may still lag a bit.
我觉得政府在这一块是对的，首先要把疫情先控制好，把能救的人先治愈，尽可能避免更多的人感染。
I think the government is right in this area. First of all, we should control the epidemic, cure those who can be saved, and avoid as many people as possible.
然而，恢复生产、恢复市场活力这件事并不是一下子就能做到的。
However, reviving production and revitalizing the market will not be possible overnight.
在政府努力抗击疫情的时候，我们企业也不想给政府添太多麻烦，只是希望政府能够出台一些政策，支持我们渡过难关。
As the government tries to combat the epidemic, our companies don't want to cause the government too much trouble. We just want the government to come up with policies that will help us tide over the difficulties.
希望政府出台金融扶持政策没有发生疫情时，我们本来预测这个月可以赚到500万左右，但现在反而要亏几百万。
We had expected to make about $5 million this month, but now we are losing millions of dollars, when the government introduced a financial support policy.
如果政府能出台一些金融扶持政策，帮我们争取利息低一点的银行贷款度过当前的资金苦难阶段，可能我们这三个月就能够缓过劲来，6个月就可以恢复元气。
If the government can put in place some financial support policies to help us get a bank loan with lower interest rates through the current funding difficulties, maybe we can get over it in three months and recover in six months.
水果零售行业是风险比较大的行业，之前很多股东已经把自己的房产都拿出来去做抵押，解决现金流的问题，如今又碰到这么一个考验，真的不敢想象未来是什么样子的。
Fruit retailing is a riskier industry, where many shareholders have already taken out their homes as collateral to solve cash flow problems and now face such a test that they can't imagine what the future will look like.
以前遇到困难，或许还能想办法找别人帮助一下，但是现在大家都遇到困难了，再找别人也是没有办法了。
In the past difficulties, may also be able to find other people to help, but now that we are all having difficulties, there is no other way to find others.
公司现在还有1000多万的货款要付，批发档口几百万的赊销款一时也无法回款，员工300多万的工资要在2月15日发放，200多万的租金要支付，预计2月份资金缺口达千万以上，3月份如果不能回复正常，公司真的很难撑下去。
The company still has more than 10 million dollars to pay, millions of dollars in wholesale sales, more than 3 million dollars in payroll on February 15, more than 2 million in rent, a projected shortfall of more than 10 million in February, and no return to business as usual in March.
我们已经在想办法与供应商们沟通，争取能够缓付、减付或是分期付货款，希望能够得到他们的支持和谅解。
We are already trying to communicate with our suppliers in order to be able to defer, reduce or pay in instalments, hoping to get their support and understanding.
我们以前从来没有欠过供应商一分钱，这次我们希望他们能够理解我们当前的困境。
We've never owed a penny to our suppliers before, and this time we hope they will understand our current predicament.
如果此次能得到对方同意，公司再多熬一个月到两个月也是有可能的。
If the other side can agree this time, it is possible for the company to stay on for another month to two months.
公司因为前期经历事情多，现在还比较淡定，但我们依然希望这种情况能够尽可能在短时间内得到缓解，也希望政府部门来关心我们，创造条件让我们尽早恢复经营，也只有这样，我们才能够自救。
We still hope that this situation will be alleviated as soon as possible. We also hope that the government departments will take care of us and create the conditions for us to resume our business as soon as possible.
我现在每天都要打几个小时的高层会议电话，商讨解决问题的办法。
I now have to make several hours of high-level phone calls every day to work out how to solve the problem.
有一次我的大儿子刚好看到我电脑里的文件，问我：“爸爸，这次到底能不能熬过去？”我对他说，能熬过去的，在这个时候，我们反而要比任何时候都表现出乐观、积极、阳光的情绪。
Once my oldest son happened to see the files on my computer and asked me, "Daddy, can I make it through this time?" I told him that we could make it through, and at this point we were more optimistic, positive and sunny than ever.
据财新2月6日报道，清华、北大联合调研995家中小企业结果显示，34%的企业账上现金只能维持一个月，33.1%的企业可以维持两个月，17.91%的企业可以维持三个月。
A joint survey of 995 SMEs conducted by Tsinghua and Peking University showed that 34 percent of enterprises could only keep their cash on their accounts for one month, 33.1 percent for two months and 17.91 percent for three months.
对于这些企业来说，薪资和五险一金是成本支出的大头，其次是租金，偿还贷款占13.98%，三项合计占90.44%。
For these enterprises, salaries and insurance premiums account for the bulk of the cost, followed by rent, with 13.98 per cent of loans repaid and three out of 90.44 per cent.
为了应对疫情，22.43%的企业计划减员降薪，21.23%的企业准备贷款，16.20%的企业选择停产歇业，13.58%的企业股东自己增资，还有10.16%的企业选择民间借贷。
In response to the epidemic, 22.43 per cent of enterprises plan to reduce wages, 21.23 per cent prepare loans for enterprises, 16.20 per cent suspend operations, 13.58 per cent increase their own capital and 10.16 per cent opt for private lending.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个湖北水果店老板的自救：销售额腰斩仍不裁员，期待帮扶政策出台。
Hubei fruit store owner's self-help: Sales halved is still not layoff, looking forward to the help policy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一个湖北水果店老板的自救：销售额腰斩仍不裁员，期待帮扶政策出台";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "儿子问：这次到底能不能熬过去？我说：能";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; I said: & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
