武汉6例门诊新增确诊何来？有人菜场值过班，有人复工被查出。
Wuhan 6 out-patient clinic newly diagnosed where? Some people have been on duty, some people back to work was detected.
武汉6例门诊新增确诊何来？有人菜场值过班，有人复工被查出。
Wuhan 6 out-patient clinic newly diagnosed where? Some people have been on duty, some people back to work was detected.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
“湖北和武汉医疗救治、社区防控和后续工作任务依然艰巨繁重，其他地区人员流动和聚集增加带来疫情反弹风险依然存在。
"The tasks of medical treatment, community control and follow-up in Hubei and Wuhan remain arduous, and the risk of an epidemic rebound from increased migration and agglomeration in other regions remains.
”唯有继续加大防控和排查力度，才有可能避免新冠肺炎疫情再次局部暴发3月18日，武汉协和医院心外科候诊区，医护人员正在为等待就诊者测量体温。
Only by continuing to step up control and screening efforts will it be possible to avoid another localized outbreak of pneumonia on March 18, 2007.
《财经》记者信娜/摄影文|《财经》特派武汉记者 信娜 实习记者 朱贺编辑|王小2020年3月19日开门就是好消息：截至18日24时，湖北、武汉新增确诊病例0例；武汉的新增疑似病例、现有疑似病例也皆为零。
Sinai / Caijing News & amp; Caijing & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
此前连续五天，武汉原本已归零的新增确诊病例一度冒头。
Prior to five consecutive days, Wuhan has been to zero new confirmed cases of the first appearance.
3月13至3月17日，武汉共新增14例确诊患者，其中6例来自门诊。
From March 13 to March 17, Wuhan, a total of 14 new patients confirmed, six of which came from outpatient clinics.
来自门诊的病例，虽然绝对数字不大，但仍被专家视为必须严加防控的危险信号。
Cases from outpatient clinics, although small in absolute numbers, are still regarded by experts as a dangerous sign that must be kept under control.
3月18日，武汉市卫健委通报了唯一一个确诊病例，也是来自门诊。
On March 18, Wuhan city health committee reported the only confirmed case, also from the clinic.
这引起了医学专家和各级机构的高度重视。
This has attracted great attention from medical experts and institutions at all levels.
3月18日，中共中央总书记习近平在中央政治局常委会重要讲话中强调：在充分肯定我国疫情防控工作成绩的同时，要清醒看到国内外疫情形势的复杂性和严峻性。
On March 18, Chinese Communist Party General Secretary Xi Jinping stressed in an important speech to the Standing Committee of the Politburo that while fully recognizing the achievements of China's epidemic prevention and control, we should be clearly aware of the complexity and severity of the epidemic at home and abroad.
湖北和武汉医疗救治、社区防控和后续工作任务依然艰巨繁重，其他地区人员流动和聚集增加带来疫情反弹风险依然存在。
The tasks of medical treatment, community control and follow-up in Hubei and Wuhan are still arduous, and the risk of epidemic rebound from increased migration and agglomeration in other regions remains.
根据武汉市卫健委的通报，3月18日的新增确诊患者曾在2月24日晚5点，出门去江汉区姑嫂树菜场值夜班一次。
According to the Wuhan Health Commission, March 18, the newly diagnosed patients on February 24 at 5 p.m., went out to Jianghan District aunt tree farm night duty.
2月25日早上回到家中，无人员接触。
He returned home on the morning of 25 February without any contact.
这名患者的感染来源可能为菜市场内暴露或市场人员接触感染所致。
The source of infection in the patient may have been Hallucinogenic exposure in the market or from contact with market personnel.
姑嫂树菜市场距离华南海鲜市场步行不到3公里。
My aunt's vegetable market is less than 3 km from the South China seafood market.
《财经》记者了解到，武汉有43家医院已陆续开放普通门诊，普通门诊检测皆开始正常收费。
"Caijing" reporter learned that Wuhan has 43 hospitals have opened general outpatient clinics, general outpatient testing began to charge normal fees.
近日，有外地人陆续来武汉的三甲医院就诊，从概率上看，这也加大了多方感染的潜在风险。
Recently, there are outsiders coming to Wuhan Sanjia Hospital, from the probability, this also increased the potential risk of multi-infection.
据医学专家分析，在门诊中发现病例的危险在于，这些新增确诊患者有可能是全市大筛查中被漏掉的传染源，这增加了疫情死灰复燃的可能性。
According to medical experts, the risk of finding cases in outpatient settings lies in the fact that these newly diagnosed patients may be a missed source of infection in large-scale city-wide screening, which increases the likelihood of a resurgence of the epidemic.
不过，浙江大学公共卫生学院教授陈坤对《财经》记者分析，散发的社区新冠肺炎患者的出现也是传染病流行过程中的“正常”形态。
But Chen Kun, a professor at Zhejiang University School of Public Health, told Caijing that the distribution of patients with New Crown Pneumonia is also a "normal" pattern in the epidemic.
重要的是做好流行病学调查，早发现、早隔离，并通过现在行之有效的检疫、防疫措施，疫点就会得到扑杀。
It is important to do a good job in epidemiological investigation, early detection, early isolation, and now through effective quarantine, epidemic prevention measures, epidemic point will be eliminated.
外出复工可能会增加感染风险5 天内新增14个确诊病例，其中6例来自门诊。
Restarting work outside the home may increase the risk of infection by 14 new cases within five days, of which 6 are from outpatient settings.
这对每日关注武汉新冠肺炎病例数据的王木（化名），可不算好消息。
This is not good news for Wang Mu (alias), who is following the case data of Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia on a daily basis.
这是她在武汉的第53天，“禁足”社区的第30天。
This is her 53rd day in Wuhan, the 30th day of the "no foot" community.
她的疑问是，这些门诊确诊病人到底由何而来？武汉一处隔离观察点，每天三次全面消毒。
Her question is, where exactly do these out-patients come from? A secluded observation point in Wuhan, disinfected three times a day.
《财经》记者 王小/摄影武汉卫健委3月18日的通报显示，2020年3月17日0-24时，武汉市新增确诊病例1例，来自门诊。
A new case was confirmed in Wuhan on March 17, 2020, at 0-24: 00 a.m. on the city of Wuhan, according to a report released on March 18, 2007.
门诊患者住江汉区汉兴街金色雅园，为姑嫂树菜市场管理人员。
Outpatients live in Hanxing Street Jinya Garden, JiangHan District, for my sister-in-law Halles Market Manager.
《财经》记者获得的一份告知书，详细记录了该名患者的情况，该份告知书来自其所在社区居委会。
The Caijing correspondent obtained a circular detailing the patient's condition, which came from his neighbourhood.
3月15日晚，该患者咳嗽伴有胸闷，无发热，经联系约定于3月16日早上由社区工作人员陪同前往武汉中西医结合医院（又称新华医院）就医，当日检查结果未见新冠肺炎特征，核酸检测结果未出。
On the evening of March 15, the patient coughed with chest tightness and no fever. The patient was escorted by community workers to Wuhan Chinese and Western Medical Association Hospital (also known as Xinhua Hospital) on the morning of March 16 for medical treatment.
医院放行，之后，该名患者一直未出家门。
The hospital released the patient, who remained at home.
3月17日晚，社区收到上级口头反馈结果该患者核酸检测阳性，后连夜将该患者接出小区就诊，现于市中心医院住院治疗。
On the night of 17 March, the community received oral feedback from her superiors that the patient had tested positive for nucleic acid, and the patient was taken out of the neighbourhood overnight and is now hospitalized in a central hospital.
2名家属已送至密切接触者的隔离酒店。
Two family members were taken to the quarantined hotel where they were in close contact.
目前，上述家属身体状态良好，无发热，无胸闷气促等症状。
At present, the above-mentioned family members in good physical condition, no fever, no chest tightness and other symptoms.
流行病学调查显示，该名确诊患者体温一直无发热症状，仅轻微咳嗽。
Epidemiological investigation showed that the confirmed patient's body temperature had not been febrile symptoms, only a mild cough.
2月和3月曾各有一次去金雅三期东门取朋友送来的生活物资。
In February and March, each went to the East Gate of Jinya III to collect supplies from friends.
其妻子曾三次取生活物资，未与他人直接接触。
On three occasions, his wife took her daily necessities without direct contact with anyone else.
2月24日晚5点，该名确诊患者出门去姑嫂树菜场值夜班一次，2月25日早上回到家中，无人员接触。
At 5 p.m. on 24 February, the confirmed patient went out for a night shift at his aunt's tree farm and returned home on the morning of 25 February without any contact.
3月18日，上述武汉市卫健委通报中描述，推断感染来源为菜市场暴露或市场人员接触感染所致。
March 18, the above-mentioned Wuhan City Health Commission reported that the presumed source of infection is the Hallucinogenic Market exposure or market contact infection.
另一名有过外出工作经历的新增患者确诊于3月15日。
Another new patient, who had worked outside the home, was diagnosed on March 15.
据武汉卫健委通报，该名患者住武昌区百瑞景2期，曾有过在小区活动、外出上班和医院就医经历。
According to Wuhan Health Commission reported that the patient lived in Wuchang District Barry King 2, there have been community activities, outside work and hospital experience.
其所在社区一名工作人员在3月18日对《财经》介绍，前两天，该名住户开始复工。
A staff member of his community told Caijing on March 18 that two days earlier, the household had resumed work.
其所在单位为职工做体检排查，后在武汉天佑医院做了核酸检测，结果为阳性。
Its unit for the staff to do physical examination and screening, after doing in Wuhan Tianyou Hospital nucleic acid testing, the results are positive.
确诊后，患者已在第一时间被送入光谷地区一家定点医院隔离治疗。
After the diagnosis, the patient was first taken to a designated hospital in the Guanggu area for isolation and treatment.
目前，其所住楼层已消杀完毕，同住在家里的密切接触者均已进入隔离点进行医学观察。
At present, its floors have been eliminated, and close contacts living at home have been placed in isolation for medical observation.
“除了他以外，家里还有一个人是街道的工作人员，两个人每天外出上班”，上述工作人员说，很难查出来到底是从哪里感染的。
"In addition to him, there was one person in the house who worked in the street and two people went out to work every day," said the staff, who said it was difficult to find out where the infection had come from.
“不排除社区或家庭成员感染可能。
"The possibility of infection in the community or among family members is not excluded.
”武汉卫健委通报这样解释该名患者的可能感染原因。
Wuhan Health Commission informed the patient of this explanation for the possible infection.
门诊核酸检测等均需自费“我们都不知道是怎么回事”，在得知这几日新增确诊病例来自门诊后，武汉协和医院一名医务人员称，有压力。
Out-patient nucleic acid testing and so on "we do not know how the matter," after learning that these days the new confirmed cases from the outpatient clinic, Wuhan Concord Hospital, a medical staff said, pressure.
武汉协和医院在第一批开放医院名单中。
Wuhan Concorde Hospital is on the list of the first open hospitals.
本周开始，其本部院区许久未开的门诊大门重新打开。
The long-standing outpatient clinic in its main compound reopened this week.
3月中旬开始，武汉市部分医院陆续恢复普通门诊，并开放病区，收治非新冠肺炎患者。
In mid-March, some hospitals in Wuhan resumed regular outpatient clinics and opened the sick areas to patients with non-Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
每日非新冠定点医院名单、各医院门诊、急诊和住院科室开放情况可在武汉市卫健委官网查询。
The daily list of non-accredited hospitals, outpatient, emergency and inpatient departments can be consulted on the Wuhan Health Officers' Network.
截至3月17日12:00，35家仅收治非新冠病人与8家新冠、非新冠病人均收治的非新冠定点医疗机构，这43家恢复了部分门诊和住院科室。
As at 12: 00 on 17 March, 35 non-crown designated medical institutions that treated only non-crown patients and 8 new crown and non-crown patients had been admitted, and some outpatient and inpatient units had been restored.
3月18日下午3点，武汉协和医院二楼心外科候诊区，《财经》记者遇到一名年轻女子，头戴彩色帽子，怀里紧紧抱着出生21天的孩子。
On March 18, at 3: 00 p.m., at the waiting area for cardiac surgery on the second floor of Wuhan Concorde Hospital, Caijing reporter met a young woman with a colorful hat and a 21-day-old baby in her arms.
他们从武汉周边某县城自驾赶来。
They drove themselves from a county around Wuhan.
他们此时能进入武汉并不容易，需要准备多份材料：县城医院开具的转诊单，健康证等。
They can enter Wuhan at this time is not easy, need to prepare a number of materials: county hospital issued by the referral list, health certificates.
这位女子告诉《财经》记者，孩子出生不久便出现缺氧症状，县城医院条件有限，没法确诊，“这两天症状越来越严重，哭的时候特别明显，喘不上来气”。
The woman told Caijing that hypoxia appeared shortly after birth and conditions at the county hospital were too limited to confirm the diagnosis. "These two days are getting worse and the crying is particularly pronounced and breathless.
此前他们通过在线问诊向协和心外科医生咨询，初步结果是“先天性心脏病”。
Earlier, they consulted a Concorde cardiologist through an online consultation, and the preliminary result was "congenital heart disease."
得知武汉协和医院开诊，他们便第一时间赶来。
Knowing that Wuhan Concorde Hospital opened, they came first.
“如果不是孩子生病，我们也不会冒着风险进入武汉”，这位母亲说，孩子还小，希望能尽快治疗。
"We wouldn't have risked going into Wuhan if the child hadn't been ill," the mother said, adding that the child was young and wanted to be treated soon.
他们面对的是全副武装的医护人员，防护服、眼睛、面罩、口罩，与发热门诊内的医生几无两样。
They were faced with heavily armed medical personnel, protective clothing, eyes, masks and masks, almost identical to those found in the fever clinic.
只要两三个人围上来，他们便大张手臂，“退后、退后，不要围上来”。
When only two or three men were gathered about them, they opened their arms wide, and said, Stand back, stand back, and do not come about.
这与门诊楼内无处不在的“请与他人保持距离，至少1米以上”的通知相呼应。
This echoes the ubiquitous circular "Please distance yourself from others, at least 1m or more" in the outpatient building.
《财经》记者看到，医院做了详细记录，每一个病人都被完整登记了姓名、年龄、就诊卡信息。
Caijing reporter saw that the hospital made a detailed record, each patient was fully registered name, age, medical card information.
就诊卡需先在窗口绑定家庭住址和电话号码。
The card first binds the home address and telephone number to the window.
填完上述信息，体温枪就伸过来对着额头检测。
Fill in the above information, the body temperature gun over to the forehead detection.
如果体温超过37.3℃，体温枪会自动报警。
If the temperature exceeds 37.3 ℃, the temperature gun automatically calls the police.
导诊台内一位工作人员介绍，发热病人会立马隔离处理，并送至发热定点医院。
An attendant at the clinic said the febrile patients would be immediately isolated and sent to the fever designated hospital.
在测量体温外，工作人员还会用脉搏血氧饱和度仪检测就诊者的血氧饱和度。
In addition to temperature measurement, the staff will also use pulse blood oxygen saturation meter to detect the client's blood oxygen saturation.
就诊者还需回答，是否曾与确诊新冠肺炎患者有过接触。
Respondents were also asked whether they had had any contact with patients diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia.
如果收治入院，需先做检测排查，排除新冠肺炎后，才能办理住院。
If admitted to hospital, need to do a test and screening, remove the new crown pneumonia, can be hospitalized.
上述医务人员介绍，不仅要做CT、两次核酸检测，还要做血清抗体检测。
The above-mentioned medical personnel, not only to do CT, two nucleic acid testing, but also to do serum antibody testing.
《财经》记者了解到，上述检测项目均需自费，其中核酸检测300元，血清抗体100多元。
Caijing reporter understands, afore-mentioned test item needs self-pay, among them nucleic acid test 300 yuan, serum antibody 100 many.
武汉大部分医院将注意力转向到开放的普通门诊和病区。
Most hospitals in Wuhan have turned their attention to open general outpatient and sick areas.
一位三甲医院副院长称，近期的主要精力投放在门诊，情况已经明显好转。
A deputy hospital director said the recent focus on outpatient care, the situation has significantly improved.
仍需警惕复工风险武汉近日新增来自门诊的部分确诊患者，提示有的社区还有新冠肺炎患者。
Still need to be alert to the risk of resumption of work Wuhan recently added some patients from the clinic confirmed, suggesting that some communities also have new crown pneumonia patients.
不过，首都医科大学公共卫生学院副院长郭秀花认为，个别的确诊病例是小概率事件。
However, Guo Xiuhua, deputy dean of the Institute of Public Health at Capital Medical University, said individual confirmed cases were low probability events.
大趋势是疫情得到控制，可以开展正常的经济活动了。
The general trend is that the epidemic is under control and that normal economic activity can be carried out.
此前，北京大学公共卫生学院教授宁毅接受《财经》记者采访时也提到，整个趋势是快速递减的，永远也不能排除局部暴发的可能，需要警戒点点星火。
Earlier, Beijing University School of Public Health Professor Ning Yi told Caijing that the overall trend is rapidly decreasing, can never exclude the possibility of local outbreaks, need to be vigilant.
控制不好的话，就是一把大火。
If it's not under control, it's a fire.
有警戒心，点点星火会越来越少。
Be on guard. There will be fewer sparks.
与外出工作相关的新增确诊病例，是否会使疫情在某些地区卷土重来？浙江大学公共卫生学院教授陈坤认为，传染病的防控措施要因时因事因地制宜，并根据形势的变化适时调整策略与措施，现在正在进行的分类分区域分时间段有序复工复学也是这个道理。
Will newly confirmed cases related to work outside the home lead to a resurgence of the epidemic in some areasChen Kun, a professor at Zhejiang University School of Public Health, opined that measures to prevent and control infectious diseases should be tailored to specific situations and adjust strategies and measures to changing circumstances.
3月18日，湖北省人民政府副省长曹广晶在疫情防控工作发布会上介绍，武汉市第一类企业可以继续复工复产，其他企业按照不早于3月20日24时前复工复产进行安排。
On March 18, Cao Guangjing, vice-governor of the People's Government of Hubei Province, told a briefing on the prevention and control of the epidemic that enterprises in category I of Wuhan could resume work and other enterprises could resume production before 2400 hours before March 20.
根据政府部门的解释，第一类企业，是指涉及保障疫情防控、群众生活必需等企业。
According to government departments, the first category refers to enterprises involved in ensuring the prevention and control of epidemic diseases and the necessities of life for the masses.
复旦大学公共卫生学院教授胡善联提示，复工单位需要全权负责，从组织上要特别重视。
Fudan University School of Public Health Professor Hu Shanlian suggested that the resumption of work units need full responsibility, from the organization of special attention.
从技术措施上来说，可以慢慢放开，对员工的上班时间、在食堂就餐的时间进行错位安排，打个时间差，不要在一起聚集。
From a technical point of view, can slowly open up, employees work time, dining in the canteen misplacement, a time difference, do not gather together.
他还提示，个人也需多注意卫生防护，戴口罩，勤洗手，保持社交距离，通风，不去密集场所等。
He also suggested that individuals should pay more attention to health protection, wearing masks, washing their hands frequently, maintaining social distance, ventilation and avoiding crowded places.
至于整个武汉何时能够解封，恢复正常工作和生活秩序，此前中国工程院院士李兰娟在接受媒体时提到，到3月20日左右武汉新增确诊人数有望清零。
As for when Wuhan as a whole can be unsealed and return to normal working and living order, Li Lanjuan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, told the media that the number of newly diagnosed cases in Wuhan by March 20 is expected to be zero.
清零之后仍要进行两周的观察，如果不再有新增确诊患者，武汉的“封城”问题可解决，恢复正常工作和生产生活。
After the two weeks of observation, if no new patients are diagnosed, Wuhan's "closure" problem can be solved, normal work and production life.
按上述预计，武汉有望于4月上旬考虑解决“封城”问题。
According to the above forecast, Wuhan is expected to consider early April to solve the "closure" problem.
但截止目前，湖北和武汉当地尚未有权威机构正面谈及全城解封的具体时间表。
But so far, no local authority in Hubei and Wuhan has spoken positively about a specific timetable for the city's release.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉6例门诊新增确诊何来？有人菜场值过班，有人复工被查出。
Wuhan 6 out-patient clinic newly diagnosed where? Some people have been on duty, some people back to work was detected.
终于！湖北和武汉新增归零！                                        终于！湖北和武汉新增归零！                          ...                                                央视财经                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           湖北双清0，但这一信号须警惕！                                        湖北双清0，但这一信号须警惕！                          ...                                                中国经济网                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           湖北双清0，但新增1例的感染来源要警惕！                                        湖北双清0，但新增1例的感染来源要警惕！                          ...                                                中国青年报                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣         。
Finally, Hubei and Wuhan add to zero! Finally! Hubei and Wuhan add to zero!... CCTV Finance and Economics do not like to see the reasons for the low quality of content OK content low-interest Hubei Shuangqing 0, but this signal should be vigilant! Hubei Shuangqing 0 but the source of the new 1 case should be vigilant!
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉6例门诊新增确诊何来？有人菜场值过班，有人复工被查出";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“湖北和武汉医疗救治、社区防控和后续工作任务依然艰巨繁重，其他地区人员流动和聚集增加带来疫情反弹风险依然存在";。
"Hubei and Wuhan still have a difficult and arduous task of medical treatment, community prevention, and follow-up, and the risk of an epidemic rebound from increased human mobility and agglomeration in other areas remains & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
