疫情下创业者艰难自救：仿佛突然被按下了暂停键。
Founders struggling to save themselves from the epidemic: It was as if they had been pushed the pause button.
肖芳 伍洋宇等。
Xiao Fang Wu Yuanyu etc.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：肖芳 伍洋宇 周伊雪  编辑：文姝琪“ 大量的创业公司都面临着现金流的压力，维持6个月以上的现金流被认为是企业能够熬过去的关键。
Source: Visual Chinese Journalist: Xiao Fang Ningyu Zhou Yi Xue, Editor: NINETY NINETY NINETY NINETY "A large number of startups are under cash flow pressure, and maintaining cash flow for more than six months is considered the key to getting through.
”2020年的春节，疫情突如其来，让创业者们猝不及防。
The sudden onset of the Spring Festival in 2020 caught entrepreneurs off guard.
1月14日，创业公司“十二栋”在武汉试营业了公司迄今为止最大的一家线下夹娃娃机店。
On January 14, the start-up company "Twelve" in Wuhan trial operation of the company so far one of the largest offline clip-on doll shop.
这名叫““LLJ夹机占”门店有1000平方米。
The store, called LLJ Chuck, has 1,000 square meters.
十二栋本想将其作为样板店，但在运营十天之后，1月24日晚上，它就关停了。
Twelve companies wanted to use it as a model shop, but after 10 days of operation, on the night of January 24, it was shut down.
随后，十二栋在北京、上海等其他7个城市的十几家门店陆续关停。
Subsequently, 12 other seven cities in Beijing, Shanghai and a dozen stores have been closed.
目前营业的只剩下2家，营业时间已大幅缩短，2月也将全部关停。
Only two remain open, and business hours have been significantly shortened, with all closures due in February.
这个最早依靠“长草团子”表情IP获得大量传播，随后成长为卡通形象IP孵化运营的公司，线下生意陷入困境。
The company, which first gained popularity by relying on the "long grass regiment" IP expression, grew into a cartoon IP incubator and ran into trouble offline.
“LLJ夹机占好的时候能占公司收入的60%，关停对我们的现金流造成了非常大的压力。
"LLJ grips account for 60% of the company's revenue when it's good, and the shutdown puts a lot of pressure on our cash flow.
而且，我们还面临门店租金和人力成本等支出压力，如果情况一直不能好转，账上的钱也就能撑两个月。
And we're under pressure to spend money on store rents and labor costs, and if things don't get better, the money on the books will last two months.
”十二栋文化联合创始人兼COO乱乱告诉界面新闻。
Twelve culture co-founders and COO messed up the interface news.
因为疫情，像十二栋这样突然陷入困境的企业还很多，餐饮、旅游、线下零售行业首当其冲，和实体相关的行业也受到较大影响。
Because of the epidemic, such as the 12 enterprises such as the sudden plight of many enterprises, catering, tourism, offline retail industry, and the entity-related industries were also affected.
大环境之下，更多行业受到的影响也将逐渐显现。
Under the general environment, more industries will also be affected gradually.
可以参考的是2003年，当年中国四个季度的GDP增速分别为11.1%、9.1%、10%和10%，其中第二季度受“非典”影响增幅下滑的趋势非常明显。
China's GDP grew 11.1 percent, 9.1 percent, 10 percent and 10 percent in the four quarters of 2003, with the second quarter showing a sharp decline in the number of people affected by the disease.
除了餐饮、旅游、线下零售行业之外，国资委的调查显示，2003年第二季度，65.5%的企业反映“非典”疫情对本企业生产经营活动产生了不利影响，主要集中在企业销售、出口、项目洽谈和建设等环节，其中，认为影响销售的企业比重高达61.6%。
Besides catering, tourism and offline retailing, the SASAC survey showed that in the second quarter of 2003, 65.5 per cent of enterprises reported that the SARS epidemic had had a negative impact on their production and business operations.
2月2日，金沙江创投合伙人朱啸虎发表朋友圈称，今年比非典还严峻，对很多创业企业是生死关。
On February 2, Jinshajiang venture partner Zhu Xiaohu issued a circle of friends said that this year is more severe than SARS, many startups are life-or-death.
多个互联网行业创业者也均向界面新闻表示，疫情对公司的影响肯定有，具体有多大还需进一步观望。
A number of Internet entrepreneurs have also told the interface news, the impact of the epidemic on the company must be, how much more to wait and see.
虽然压力很大，但他们已经开始有所行动，打算克服一切困难降低损失，熬到疫情过去。
Despite the pressure, they have begun to do something about it and intend to overcome all difficulties to reduce their losses until the end of the epidemic.
最焦虑的春节1月19日，处理完最后一个面试，李欣（化名）的公司提前放了假。
The most anxious Spring Festival Jan. 19, processing the last interview, Li Xin (alias) of the company ahead of time off.
2019年，公司客户量超过他的预期，但人手不足，每个员工都很累，他想让大家趁着春节多休息一下，来年铆足劲儿继续干。
In 2019, the company had more customers than he had expected, but it was understaffed and every employee was tired. He wanted everyone to take advantage of the Lunar New Year to have a good rest and keep going in the coming year.
两年前，李欣从一家头部互联网公司的行政部离职，靠着工作中积累下的办公物业和活动场地资源，他创办了自己的办公选址咨询公司。
Two years ago, Ms. Li left the administration of a head-on Internet company and started his own office-location consulting firm, drawing on his accumulated office property and mobile-space resources.
2019年是其正式公司化运营的第一年，他给拿下了一个规模数千人的互联网公司客户，还做了一些大型会议的场地选址服务，5个员工把年流水做到了500万。
In 2019, the first year of his full-fledged corporate operation, he took off a client of thousands of Internet companies and set up site selection services for a number of large conferences, with five employees achieving five million annual running costs.
今年，他准备再招几个人，把流水做到800万。
This year, he is going to hire a few more people to do eight million.
1月初，李欣关注到了武汉发生肺炎疫情的消息，但在当时的环境下，他并没太当回事。
At the beginning of January, Li was concerned about the news of pneumonia in Wuhan, but in the circumstances, he did not take it seriously.
很快，随着每天确诊病例的增多，各地防控疫情措施的升级，朋友圈、微信群全是肺炎疫情的消息，李欣也逐渐焦虑了起来。
Soon, with the daily increase in confirmed cases, the escalation of measures to prevent and control the epidemic, friends, micro-groups are all the news of pneumonia, Li Xin has gradually become anxious.
他很快找到年前谈好的两个客户再次确认生意——不出所料，其中一个计划3月要换办公室，说暂时不搬了；另一个原本打算年后大量招人，想租个8000平米的新办公室，也因为疫情先不招了，找办公室的计划自然搁置。
He quickly tracked down two clients he'd negotiated a couple of years ago--one plan to switch offices in March and say it wouldn't move for the time being, and another plan to hire more than 8,000 square meters of new office space in the next year or so, and plans to find an office were shelved because of the outbreak.
“年前招的2个人因为封村不能来上班了，你都不知道我有多绝望。
"You don't know how desperate I was when two people I recruited a year ago couldn't come to work because of a village ban.
”李欣对界面新闻说。
"Li Xin told Interface News.
疫情像是给高速前进的创业公司按下了暂停键，一切都戛然而止。
The epidemic was like a pause for a fast-moving startup, and everything came to an abrupt end.
乱乱也有这个感觉：原本十二栋的线下衍生品生意是高速流动的，但现在因为疫情停滞了。
There was also a sense that the original 12 off-line derivatives business, which was moving at a high speed, had stalled because of the outbreak.
十二栋生产出来的衍生品一部分流向言几又、1983潮玩店等书店和文创店，这部分能占到十二栋线下收入的40%。
Twelve of the derivatives produced flow in part to bookstores and Vincentian stores, such as Toy Stores in 1983, which account for 40% of the 12 offline revenues.
2月本来是销售旺季，年前这些门店已经和十二栋完成了订单交易，十二栋准备了库存，现在这些货品全都滞留在十二栋的仓库中，十二栋还要为此付出一个月80万的仓储费。
The stores, which were due to be in high season in February, had placed orders with a dozen stores a year ago and 12 were in stock, all of which are now held in 12 warehouses, at a cost of $800,000 a month.
另一部分产品流向LLJ夹机占。
Another part of the product flows to LLJ clamps.
年前开完武汉的新店后，乱乱预估春节期间的月流水能做到3000万到3500万元，而在现在的情形下，流水基本归零。
After opening the new store in Wuhan some years ago, the monthly flowing water during the Spring Festival can be estimated to be between 30 million and 35 million yuan.
不仅如此，他每个月的房租和人力支出还要1200万元左右。
What's more, he spends about 12 million yuan a month on rent and manpower.
“我们公司也算是经历了这个行业的从无到有，一直比较有信心，但这次文创产业受到的打击真的挺大的。
"Our company has been through the industry from scratch, has been more confident, but this creative industry has been hit really hard.
”乱乱告诉界面新闻。
Tell the Interface News.
让他更担心的是，相比于餐饮、旅游这些刚需行业，文创行业的恢复也会更加滞后。
What worries him the most is that the recovery of the creative industries will lag further than that of catering and tourism.
“疫情过去后一个月的时间，餐饮和旅游就会恢复，但我们得需要两个月。
"Food and travel will resume a month after the outbreak, but it will take us two months.
”乱乱做出这样的判断。
"To make such a judgment.
过去两年资本已转入寒冬，创业公司的日子并不好过。
Over the past two years, when capital has turned to winter, startups have had a tough time.
泰合资本去年调研了30多家头部投资机构在2020年的投融资策略，包括战投、美元和人民币机构。
Last year, Thai Capital investigated the investment and financing strategies of more than 30 head investors in 2020, including battle placement, dollars and renminbi institutions.
调研结果显示，只有14%的机构表示他们在未来一年的投资策略会更活跃，有57%的机构表示会进一步收缩。
Only 14 per cent said their investment strategy would be more active in the coming year, while 57 per cent said they would contract further, according to the survey.
如果说部分创业者还可以靠对行业的前瞻性以及商业模式上的创新在寒冬里找到机会，但这一次的疫情爆发，留给创业者的反应时间太短了。
While some entrepreneurs can still find opportunities in the winter by looking ahead to the industry and innovating in their business models, this time the outbreak has left entrepreneurs too little time to react.
积极自救在这个最长的春节假期中，创业者们根本无心休息和娱乐，他们必须马上想解决方案，至少得让公司撑得更久一点。
Actively Help Yourself During the longest Spring Festival, entrepreneurs have no heart at all for rest and entertainment. They have to figure out a solution right away, or at least make the company last longer.
乱乱和十二栋管理团队首先想到的自救措施是减少开支，房租、人力、库存、装修上都要尽可能压缩成本。
The first thought of the chaos and the 12 management teams was to cut costs and keep costs as low as possible in terms of rent, manpower, inventory and furnishings.
在复工之前，乱乱和管理团队已经有了一些初步的想法。
Before going back to work, the chaos and management team already had some preliminary ideas.
比如，原本计划在三四月开的几家店已经准备暂停，推迟开业；不到万不得已绝不裁掉一个人，但管理团队已经在考虑半薪或者三分之二薪，等公司现金流恢复之后再补给大家。
For example, several stores that were scheduled to open in March or April have been put on hold and are postponing business; no one will be laid off until last resort, but the management team is already considering a half-pay or two-thirds paycheck until the company's cash flow returns.
目前，十二栋面临的最大难题还是租金。
At the moment, rent is the biggest problem for the 12.
乱乱告诉界面新闻，十二栋已经在和各大商场商量对策，但商场面临的困难也比较大，很难有成效。
Disorderly told the interface news, 12 have been and major shopping mall measures, but shopping malls are also facing greater difficulties, it is difficult to achieve results.
“我们希望商场能延迟一些时间收租金，但商场也不愿给肯定的答复。
"We'd like the mall to delay the rent for a while, but the mall wouldn't give a positive answer either.
还有一些店铺是个人的，更难沟通。
Some shops are personal and harder to communicate with.
”2月3日，十二栋开工，全员在家办公——无论困难有多大，行动起来才能朝好的方向发展。
On February 3, 12 buildings were opened, all working from home - no matter how difficult it is to move in the right direction.
乱乱告诉界面新闻，把当前要做的事逐项分解以后，反而没有了负面情绪。
Disorderly told the interface news, the current need to do things after the breakdown, but no negative emotions.
在开工之前，十二栋管理层通过各个负责人的群，告诉大家首先确保平安，接着就是保证团队内部稳定。
Before starting work, the 12 management teams, through their respective groups of directors, told everyone to ensure safety first, followed by stability within the team.
一位十二栋的员工告诉界面新闻，目前他们在家正常办公，同事们还和之前一样在群里讨论问题，大家都挺积极的。
A 12-member employee told Interface News that they are now working from home, that colleagues are still discussing issues in the group as before, and that everyone is very positive.
乱乱最大的希望是双11和双12，现在的库存只能通过线上销售，这两个节日是线上销售的爆发期，十二栋已经开始尝试直播带货，为下半年的销售做准备。
The best hope for chaos is a pair of 11s and 12s, which can only be sold online. These are the days of online sales. Twelve have already begun to try live delivery, in preparation for sales later this year.
经过几天的焦虑之后，李欣也通过恢复工作让自己平静下来。
After a few days of anxiety, Li Xin calmed down by returning to work.
他庆幸去年没大量招人，公司账上的现金还够现在的小团队支撑半年。
He is lucky last year did not recruit a large number of people, the cash on the company's account is enough to support the current small team for six months.
疫情过去，很多公司还是要扩招和换办公室，只是要等一段时间。
In the past, many companies still had to expand and change offices, just to wait a while.
“以前要经常去拜访潜在的客户，现在可以换种方式，用微信或者电话先了解潜在客户的需求，等疫情过去掌握主动权。
"We used to visit potential customers often, but now we have the option of using a micro-letter or phone to get to know the needs of potential customers," he said.
”17年前的“非典”之下，当时创业型企业的遭遇和现在有些相似。
Under SARS 17 years ago, startups suffered something similar to what they do now.
比如，“非典”在北京爆发之后，携程也曾陷入经营的困境。
For example, after the outbreak of SARS in Beijing, Ctrip also ran into difficulties.
当时，携程创始人梁建章一方面稳住团队军心，一方面趁着业务低迷之际，让呼叫中心的员工全部上班，磨流程和培训。
At that time, Ctrip founder Liang Jianzhang, on the one hand to stabilize the team, while taking advantage of the downturn, call center staff to work, grinding procedures and training.
疫情过去之后，旅游行业迎来了“报复性”增长，7月和8月的业务量都超过了“非典”之前。
After the epidemic passed, the travel industry experienced "retaliatory" growth, with business volume surpassing that of SARS in July and August.
当年12月，携程在纳斯达克上市。
In December of that year, Ctrip went public on NASDAQ.
保证现金流，活下去疫情突如其来，对企业有负面影响，但多位创业者和投资人都向界面新闻表达了同一个的观点：它并不可怕。
Guaranteed cash flow, survival epidemic sudden, negative impact on enterprises, but a number of entrepreneurs and investors to the interface news expressed the same view: it is not terrible.
一位消费行业投资人告诉界面新闻，从其所投资的公司后台数据看，以宠物行业为例，线上单量与去年同期相比并没下降，但是因为员工目前都还在外省家中，未返回北上深等大城市，造成履约效率上有影响，但是相关消费需求并没有明显减弱。
One consumer-industry investor told Interface News that the number of online orders in the pet industry, for example, had not fallen from the same period last year, but because employees were still in provincial homes and did not return to big cities north of the country, compliance efficiency was affected, but consumer demand did not diminish significantly.
目前，大量的创业公司都面临着现金流的压力，维持6个月以上的现金流被认为是企业能够熬过去的关键。
At present, a large number of startups are facing cash flow pressure, maintain cash flow for more than six months is considered to be the key companies can survive.
以受影响最大的餐饮行业为例，疫情短期的影响则分为多种。
In the case of the most affected food and beverage industry, the short-term impact of the epidemic is manifold.
第一种是以年夜饭作为主打的品牌酒楼，这种酒楼一般年夜饭收入会占到当年收入一半，因此受疫情影响很大。
The first is the Chinese New Year's Eve dinner as the main brand restaurant, this kind of restaurant income will account for half of the year's income, so affected by the epidemic.
另一种是常规餐饮品牌，例如海底捞等，只要能够维持6个月以上现金流，影响总体是可控的。
The other is conventional food brands, such as bottom fishing, which are generally manageable as long as they can sustain cash flows for more than six months.
“餐饮的成本一部分是房租，现在很多商场都可以谈下来免两个月房租，另外原材料方面也可以用多种方式处置，实际造成的影响并没想象那么大。
"Part of the cost of the meal is rent. Many stores are now able to negotiate rent-free for two months, and raw materials can be disposed of in a variety of ways.
”前述投资人说，“心理上的影响要更大。
"The psychological impact is even greater," said the former investor.
”易凯资本创始人王冉给原本计划在今年6月完成融资的创业公司提出了更具体的建议，包括：开源节流，把健康现金流和最低现金流储备作为头等大事来抓；尽快和股东沟通，寻求急救办法；用好疫情时间，尽量把融资的准备工作通过远程办公的方式提前完成。
Yi Kai Capital founder Wang Ran has put forward more concrete proposals for startups who had planned to complete their fundraising in June, including: cut corners and prioritize healthy cash flow and minimum cash flow reserves; communicate with shareholders as soon as possible to find emergency treatment; and use the epidemic time to make preparations for financing as early as possible by telecommuting.
经过几天的筹划，乱乱终于把公司开源节流的措施落实，并于2月4日晚间以内部邮件的形式通知全体员工。
After a few days of planning, the chaos finally put the company's measures to achieve savings, February 4 night in the form of internal mail to inform all staff.
其中最重要的一条是包括乱乱和十二栋CEO王彪在内的总监级别以上人员半薪发放，同时公司暂停长线研发项目，优先短期内线上开发和销售，减少所有不必要的开支。
The most important of these was the half-pay package for directors and above, including chaos and 12 CEO WangBiao, while the company suspended long-term research and development projects, giving priority to short-term insider development and sales, reducing all unnecessary expenses.
乱乱在内部信中表示，在未来的几个月里，十二栋的重点也会是保证“现金流”，保证公司“活下去”。
In the coming months, the focus will also be on ensuring cash flow and keeping the company afloat, according to an internal letter.
同时，北京、上海等地的政府已经推出多项措施解决企业生产经营的中遇到的困难。
At the same time, the governments of Beijing, Shanghai and other places have launched a number of measures to solve the difficulties encountered by enterprises in production and operation.
比如，北京鼓励大型商务楼宇、商场、市场运营方对中小微租户适度减免疫情期间的租金，各区对采取减免租金措施的租赁企业可给予适度财政补贴。
Beijing, for example, encourages large commercial buildings, shopping malls and market operators to provide modest rent relief to MSMEs during the period of the epidemic, and various districts can provide appropriate financial subsidies to lease enterprises that adopt rent reduction or reduction measures.
上海市人社局3日发布四项举措减轻企业负担，包括实施失业保险稳岗返还政策、推迟调整社保缴费基数、可延长社会保险缴费期、实施培训费补贴政策。
Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Social Welfare released four measures to reduce the burden of enterprises, including the implementation of unemployment insurance return policy, delayed adjustment of the social security contribution base, renewable social insurance contribution period, the implementation of training fee subsidies policy.
“只要疫情能够在两三个月内控制住，所有影响都会是短期的。
"As long as the outbreak can be contained within two or three months, all the effects will be short-term.
在这种情况下，企业保持有6个月的现金流，经营就不会有多大问题。
In this case, if the company maintains a six-month cash flow, the operation will not have much of a problem.
”上述投资人表示。
The investors said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下创业者艰难自救：仿佛突然被按下了暂停键。
Founders struggling to save themselves from the epidemic: It was as if they had been pushed the pause button.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情下创业者艰难自救：仿佛突然被按下了暂停键";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "大量的创业公司都面临着现金流的压力，维持6个月以上的现金流被认为是企业能够熬过去的关键。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A large number of start-ups face cash flow pressures, and cash flow for more than six months is considered essential to make it through.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
