欧洲超市被买空了，连洗衣球都不放过。
European supermarkets have been short-changed, not sparing laundry balls.
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
3月18日，伦敦一家Sainsbury’s超市内的景象。
A view from a supermarket in Sainsbury's, London, March 18.
来源：受访者提供记者：卢奕贝 编辑：牙韩翔“ 危机时的囤货，本质上是我们试图控制局势的尝试，感觉到至少我们正在做某件事。
www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cn www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cn
”欧洲的超市已经被焦虑的人们抢购一空。
Supermarkets in Europe have been snapped up by anxious people.
英国时间3月17日早上7点，留学生Serena Huang前往了伦敦Uxbridge的一家乐购（Tesco）超市，想要补充一些日用品。
Serena Huang, an international student, went to a Tesco supermarket in Uxbridge, London, at 7 a.m. March 17 to try to replenish her grocery list.
虽然刚刚开门，但她发现在这家店内，鸡蛋、果蔬、罐头和意面都已被扫光，而厕纸、清洁剂的货架上也只剩下零星几份商品。
Though she had just opened the door, she found that eggs, fruits and vegetables, cans and spaghetti had been wiped out, and only a few items remained on toilet paper and detergent shelves.
超市的补货已经完全跟不上人们的购买速度，连洗衣球的货架上都被贴上了红色标签，告知最早到货时间是3月20日周五。
Supermarket restocking has completely outpaced purchases, with laundry ball shelves labeled red, saying the earliest arrival date is Friday, March 20th.
洗衣球的货架上被贴上了红色标签，告知最早到货时间是3月20日周五。
The laundry ball has been labeled red on the shelves, saying the earliest arrival time is Friday, March 20th.
（图片来源：受访者提供）大概两周前起，这样情况就已在英国大大小小的超市同时上演。
(Source: Respondents) Since about two weeks ago, this has been happening at supermarkets in Britain, big and small.
而其余欧洲国家也随着疫情蔓延，陆续出现抢购潮。
The rest of Europe also spread along with the epidemic, a rush to buy tide.
意大利是欧洲疫情最早开始爆发的国家。
Italy was the first country in Europe to see an outbreak.
自2月15日，意大利通报了3例确诊病例开始，恐慌开始在这个国家蔓延。
Since February 15, Italy has reported the beginning of three confirmed cases, and panic has begun to spread across the country.
2月20日左右，社交网络上开始出现意大利北部超市被抢购一空的各类信息，这也是该国最早出现确诊病历的地区。
Around February 20, social networks began to show signs that supermarkets in northern Italy had been snapped up. This was the first region in the country to have a confirmed medical record.
很快，随着疫情蔓延至意大利全国，被买空的超市也不断增多。
Soon, as the epidemic spread across Italy, so did the number of short-selling supermarkets.
在接下来的半个月，抢购如同多米诺骨牌一样传导至欧洲各个国家。
Over the next half-month, panic buying spread like a domino across Europe.
界面新闻数据组曾整理过世界主要疫情国家累计确诊新冠肺炎病例情况，自3月开始，欧洲国家的确诊病例迅猛增长。
The Interface News Data Group has collated the cumulative number of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in the world's major epidemic countries, with a rapid increase in confirmed cases in European countries beginning in March.
而恐慌性购买、超市货架空无一物，在这些地方的新闻中陆续涌现。
And panic buying and empty supermarket shelves have sprung up in the news in these places.
据世界卫生组织数据，截至欧洲中部时间3月18日，全球累计报告确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例191127例，其中欧洲地区累计确诊74760例。
According to the World Health Organization, as of March 18, Central Europe time, a total of 191,127 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia were reported, of which 74,760 were confirmed in Europe.
针对超市一直被抢空，几乎所有欧洲国家都再三向民众强调，当地的食物、货物是充足的，真的足够供应每个人的需求。
Almost all European countries have repeatedly stressed to the public that local food and goods are sufficient to supply everyone's needs.
法国经济与金融部长Bruno Le Maire、农业与食品部长Didier Guillaume在3月15日召开的新闻发布会上表示，在未来的几天和几周内，食物与基本生活必需品的供给是能够保障的；德国食物和农业部长Julia Klokner也在同一天表示，囤积会导致浪费，德国目前没有供应短缺。
Bruno Le Maire, France's minister of economy and finance, and Didier Guillaume, minister of agriculture and food, told a news conference on March 15 that supplies of food and basic necessities would be guaranteed in the coming days and weeks, and Julia Klokner, German minister of food and agriculture, said on the same day that hoarding would lead to waste.
而恐慌性抢购只会对供应链增加额外压力，如果每个人都理智一点，那么货架便会被及时补充。
And panic buying only adds extra pressure to the supply chain, and if everyone is reasonable, shelves will be replenished.
在疫情最为严峻的意大利和西班牙，当地政府部门也表示不会缺货。
In Italy and Spain, where the epidemic is most severe, local authorities say there will be no shortage.
意大利农业部门表示有74万个农场、7万家食品公司以及各类超商仍在运作，能保障供应。
Italy's agricultural sector says 740,000 farms, 70,000 food companies and various supermarkets are still operating, guaranteeing supplies.
班牙分销商和超市协会(Spanish Association for Distributors and Supermarkets)则表示当地的物流系统已经十分健全，在西班牙，超市的密度是每840名顾客附近就有一间，这意味着这个国家的超商有能力在极端环境下为每个国民服务。
The Spanish Association for Distributors and Supermarkets says the local logistics system is already well established, with a supermarket density of one in every 840 customers in Spain, which means the country's super-merchants are able to serve everyone in extreme circumstances.
3月18日，伦敦一家Sainsbury‘s超市内的景象。
A scene from a London supermarket, Sainsbury's, March 18.
来源：受访者提供然而，事实就是，面对疫情爆发所导致的恐慌性购买，超市们的货架一直无法被填满。
Source: Respondents gave the fact, however, that supermarket shelves had never been filled in the face of panic buying caused by the outbreak.
原因很简单，首先货品从制造商到仓库再到商店的物流速度，已经无法跟上需求的猛增。
The reason is simple: First, the logistics of goods from manufacturer to warehouse to store cannot keep pace with the surge in demand.
普渡大学Krannert管理学院的教授Ananth Iyer曾表示，食物供应链本身并不需要担心，现代超市一般会储存最多4个月的主食产品，以保证整个系统的正常运行。
Ananth Iyer, a professor at Purdue University's Krannert School of Management, has said that the food supply chain itself need not worry, and that modern supermarkets typically store up to four months of staple food products to keep the system running properly.
但新鲜食品没有这种缓冲。
But fresh food has no such buffer.
杂货店无法储存它们，而农民也无法让它长的更快。
Grocery stores can't store them, and farmers can't make them grow faster.
一枚鸡蛋从孵化到被人吃掉，一需要三到四个月的时间。
It takes three to four months for an egg to hatch and be eaten.
因此，对新鲜食品的需求过多可能意味着供应将无法跟上。
Thus, excessive demand for fresh food may mean that supply will not keep pace.
此外，如界面新闻曾经报告过，厕纸这类体积较大的日用消耗品，在现代社会也容易出现“被抢空”的情况。
In addition, as previously reported in the Interface News, toilet paper, a large consumer good such as toilet paper, is also prone to "shorting" in modern society.
事实上，大卖场不会为日用品准备足够多的存货。
In fact, big stores don't have enough stock for groceries.
因为这类产品的商品周转率较高，也就是卖场进货入库到卖出的周期很短。
Because of the high commodity turnover of these products, that is to say, the period from the time of stocking to selling is very short.
所以，在极端的抢购情况下，一家超市仓库内的厕纸类货品是无法满足瞬间激增的需求。
As a result, in the extreme rush, a supermarket warehouse in the toilet paper goods are unable to meet the surge in demand.
而人手不足也会影响超商的补货速度。
And the shortage of staff will also affect the super-business replenishment speed.
以超商们原本的人手安排，是不足以应付如今的抢购的。
With the super-merchants' original manpower arrangement, is not enough to cope with today's rush.
而疫情导致的在家办公、以及某些国家地区的封锁也让人手减少。
The epidemic has also reduced the number of home-based workers, as well as closures in some parts of the country.
在法国，有25-35%的员工由于学校关闭，要在家带小孩而只能在家办公。
In France, between 25 and 35 per cent of workers work from home because their schools are closed, bringing children with them.
法国官方对此表示将考虑各类措施来增加人手。
French officials said they would consider various measures to increase staffing.
伦敦一家超市内厕纸已被抢空。
Toilet paper has been emptied at a London supermarket.
来源：受访者提供面对困境，许多欧洲连锁超市已经开始行动起来。
Source: Respondents are facing difficulties and many European supermarket chains have already started to take action.
3月15日，包括乐购Tesco、Sainsbury's和Asda等在内的多家欧洲大型连锁超市，一起在多个国家的报纸上刊登了一封联名信，表示正在与政府和供应商紧密合作，以使食品被快速运输，并向旗下超商更频繁的送货，以确保货架上有货。
On 15 March, a number of large European supermarket chains, including Tesco, Sainsbury and Asda, published a joint letter in several national newspapers saying they were working closely with the government and suppliers to make food fast and deliver more frequently to its supermarkets to make sure they were available on shelves.
而提供网上购物以及自主取货服务的同行们也正全力以赴。
And their peers who offer online shopping and pick-up services are doing their best.
他们也在恳求顾客在新冠肺炎疫期不要恐慌性购买。
They are also pleading with customers not to panic buying during the SARS epidemic.
“但是我们也需要您的帮助。
"But we also need your help.
我们要希望每个人都彼此谅解。
We want everyone to understand each other.
我们了解您的担忧，但有时购买超出需要的商品可能意味着其他人将一无所获。
We understand your concerns, but sometimes buying more than you need may mean that others will get nothing.
如果我们大家一起努力，每个人都能买到足够的商品。
If we all work together, everyone can buy enough goods.
”同时，多家超市已经开始实施限购。
Meanwhile, a number of supermarkets have already imposed sales restrictions.
总部位于德国的大型连锁超市Aldi规定，每个人只能买4件商品。
Aldi, a large supermarket chain based in Germany, rules that each person can buy only four items.
公司CEO Giles Hurley于3月16日在Facebook上发表了长文声明，称希望暂时的限购能让更可能多的顾客每次到店时都有机会买到所需的东西。
In a long statement posted on Facebook on March 16, CEO Giles Hurley said he hoped the temporary sales restriction would give more customers a chance to buy what they need each time they arrive.
此外，他还表示已经向供应商增加订单，仓库也在全力运转。
In addition, he said that additional orders had been placed with suppliers and that the warehouse was operating at full capacity.
“虽然员工们已经不停地向商店补货，但暴增的需求让我们很难保证货架上没有空缺。
"The surge in demand has made it difficult to ensure there are no vacancies on the shelves, even though employees have been stocking stores.
我们的所有门店都会每天多次补货，即使你今天去看没有货，在大部分情况下过几天也会有。
All our stores will be replenished many times a day, even if you go today to see that there are no supplies, in most cases will be a few days later.
”其他超商如Tesco、Sainsbury's和Asda等也已有类似举措，限购范围除消毒卫生用品外，还包括蔬菜、意面、厕纸等日常消耗品。
Other supermarkets such as Tesco, Sainsbury and Asda have similar restrictions that include daily consumables such as vegetables, pasta and toilet paper, in addition to disinfecting sanitary products.
为降低感染风险，有超市开始实行分时段购物。
In order to reduce the risk of infection, some supermarkets began to implement shopping by time.
以德国北威州Mülheiman der Ruhr的REWE超市为例，该超市规定早上6至9时，只属于“新冠高风险人群”的购物时间，即60岁以上和患有慢性病的人才能在这个时间段购物，其他人在9-21时可以购物，而且不可结伴来购物。
Consider the REWE supermarket in Mülheiman der Ruhr, North Wales, Germany, which provides shopping hours from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. for "high-risk new crowns," i.e. over 60 years of age and people with chronic diseases, while others can shop between 9 and 21 hours and are not allowed to shop together.
“消费者试图获得控制权，而紧急购买，本质上是我们试图控制局势的尝试。
"Consumers are trying to gain control, and emergency buying is essentially an attempt to control the situation."
感觉到至少我们正在做某件事，我们正在积极进取，而紧急购买正是这样，这一点非常重要。
It is important to feel that at least we are doing something, that we are making progress, and that this is what emergency buying is all about.
”伦敦大学学院的消费者和商业心理学家Dimitrios Tsivrikos说。
Dimitrios Tsivrikos, a consumer and business psychologist at University College London, said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲超市被买空了，连洗衣球都不放过。
European supermarkets have been short-changed, not sparing laundry balls.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲超市被买空了，连洗衣球都不放过";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; European supermarket was short; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var msg_desc = "危机时的囤货，本质上是我们试图控制局势的尝试，感觉到至少我们正在做某件事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; hoarding at the time of the crisis was essentially an attempt to control the situation, feeling that we were at least doing something.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
