意大利留学生回国路：为了回家，我先去了趟非洲。
Italian students return home: To go home, I went to Africa first.
陈晓双。
Chen Xiaoshuang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
空旷的意大利机场。
An empty Italian airport.
记者：陈晓双“ 因担心意大利疫情加剧，不少当地留学生选择回国。
Journalist: Chen Xiaoxiang "Many local students have chosen to return home because they are worried about the worsening epidemic in Italy.
飙升的票价、不断取消的航班、各国趋严的出入境政策，让他们行程充满波折、等待和风险。
Soaring ticket prices, canceling flights, and tighter immigration rules across the world have made their journeys fraught with ups and downs, waits and risks.
”意大利作为欧洲率先爆发新冠肺炎疫情的国家，仅三周多的时间，确诊病例就从不到20例直线上升突破了3万例。
In just over three weeks, Italy, the first country in Europe to experience a new outbreak of pneumonia, has seen its number of confirmed cases skyrocket from less than 20 to more than 30,000.
疫情加剧、实行“封城”措施、医疗资源吃紧，这些状况让不少在意大利的华人、留学生担忧，选择回国。
The intensification of the epidemic, the imposition of a "blockade" and the shortage of medical resources have caused many Chinese and foreign students in Italy to worry about returning home.
各国减少意大利航班和加强入境限制措施，导致留学生回国行程充满了不确定性。
The curtailment of flights to Italy and the tightening of restrictions on entry have led to uncertainty for students returning home.
为了回家，我先去了趟非洲一名在都灵读书姓张的学生，原本计划2月底就回重庆，但考虑到3月13日要续居留按手印，就耽搁了下来。
To get home, I first went to an African student named Zhang in Turin. I had planned to return to Chongqing by the end of February, but the delay was due to resume on March 13.
“家人很担心，一直刷新疫情的消息，催促我回国。
"My family was very worried and kept updating the news, urging me to return home.
”3月9日，她先买了16日泰国航空中转曼谷回国的机票，后来原航班意大利段被取消，无奈只得重新预订。
On March 9, she bought a 16-day flight from Thailand to Bangkok, but the Italian section of the original flight was cancelled and had to be re-booked.
意大利机场，多数航班被取消。
Most flights were cancelled at Italian airports.
图片来源：受访者越来越多航班被取消，埃塞俄比亚航空成了为数不多的中转选择。
Source: Ethiopian Airlines has become one of the few transit options as more and more flights by interviewees are cancelled.
在了解了当地情况和入境政策后，她准备订机票时发现，都灵中转埃塞俄比亚回广州的机票在半个小时内从五千多元涨到一万多元。
After learning about local conditions and immigration policies, she was preparing to book an air ticket and found that the transit route from Turin to Guangzhou had increased from more than 5,000 to more than 10,000 within half an hour.
“我搜埃航飞北京的航班票价是七千多块，赶快买了，再晚几个小时票价就变成1万多块了。
"My flight to Beijing cost more than 7,000 yuan. I bought it quickly and the price became more than 10,000 yuan a few hours later.
”14日，张同学乘坐埃航降落到埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴，这是她第一次来非洲。
"Zhang landed in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa on the 14th, her first trip to Africa.
“航班有很多中国人，也有很多其他国家的旅客乘坐埃航转机，机场爆满。
"There were a lot of Chinese on the flights and a lot of passengers from other countries on the flights and the airport was full," he said.
虽然有检疫措施，但没办法做到人均一米的隔离。
Although quarantine measures are in place, there is no way to achieve one metre of quarantine per capita.
”埃塞俄比亚博莱国际机场人满为患。
Ethiopia's Bole International Airport is overcrowded.
图片来源：受访者她的航班转机时间有17个小时，埃塞俄比亚航空安排旅客们到酒店休息。
Source: Respondent Her flight took 17 hours between flights and Ethiopian Airlines arranged for passengers to rest at the hotel.
“我在酒店休息了10个小时，因为害怕一直没出门。
"I stayed at the hotel for 10 hours because I was afraid I would not go out.
”从3月14日都灵时间11：05登机，到北京时间3月16日15：30落地，张同学回家用了45个小时。
"From 11.05 a.m. Turin time on March 14 to 15: 30 on March 16, Zhang landed at home in 45 hours.
像她一样的意大利留学生还有很多。
There are many more Italian students like her.
小赵来到佛罗伦萨不到4个月，本计划读完语言学校申请大学。
Xiao Zhao came to Florence less than four months, the plan to complete the language school to apply for college.
遇到疫情，她本来觉得生活有保障并没慌，但有一次出门发现“很少有超市开门，所有药店没有开门”。
She wasn't panicking about the outbreak, but once she went out and found "few supermarkets open and all pharmacies are closed."
担心生活有问题，促使她开始订回国机票。
Worried about life problems, prompted her to start booking home tickets.
最初预订3月底法航的航班被取消，她担心航班会越来越少，立刻改订了尽早的机票。
Air France's flight, originally scheduled for the end of March, was canceled, fearing that fewer and fewer flights would be available.
按原计划她要乘坐火车先到罗马，飞三段回国：从罗马飞到德国法兰克福，后转机到阿布扎比，最后转机回上海。
She had been scheduled to travel by train to Rome, three flights home: from Rome to Frankfurt, Germany, then to Abu Dhabi, and finally to Shanghai.
可回国路刚开始就遇到各种不顺。
But the road back to the beginning of a variety of difficulties encountered.
她向界面新闻记者讲述，一早早准备坐火车到罗马，提前写好了旅行用的个人申明，但到了佛罗伦萨火车站工作人员要求重写一份，然后又被检查证件、火车票，结果耽误太长时间而没赶上火车。
She told the Interface reporter that she had prepared an early train trip to Rome and had prepared a personal statement for the trip, but at the Florence railway station the staff asked to rewrite it and was then checked for documents and train tickets, which resulted in too much delay in catching the train.
小赵有些无奈，为了不错过回国的航班，她和朋友花了500欧元从佛罗伦萨打车到了罗马，结果工作人员以转机时间过长为由，拒绝为他们办理值机。
In order not to miss the flight back home, Zhao and her friends took a 500-euro taxi from Florence to Rome. As a result, the staff refused to check in because of the long connecting flight.
法兰克福机场要求旅客转机时间至多为6小时，她的航班候机时间为12个小时，“不知道是不是眼泪攻势起了作用，在交涉了近2个小时候，机场方给我们放行了。
Frankfurt airport for passengers to transfer up to six hours, her flight waiting time is 12 hours, "I do not know whether the tears offensive played a role, after almost two hours of negotiations, the airport released us.
”多变的航班和政策飞涨的票价、随时可能被取消的航班、不断变化着的入境和转机政策让留学生们绷紧了神经。
Flights and soaring policies, flight cancellations at any time, and changing immigration and transit policies have strained the nerves of foreign students.
据去哪儿网数据显示，在过去的一周，美国各地返回国内的机票均价上涨136.8%，欧洲各地返回国内的机票价格上涨173.5%。
Over the past week, the average price of tickets returned home has risen 136.8 percent across the United States and 173.5 percent across Europe, according to data on where to find it.
不仅如此，在未来的一周内，欧美主要城市飞往北京、上海的直飞航班已经售罄。
Moreover, in the coming week, non-stop flights to Beijing and Shanghai from major US and European cities have been sold out.
中转方面，未来一周，由伦敦飞往北京的中转航班含税最低近14000元。
In transit, transit flights from London to Beijing in the coming week include a minimum tax of nearly 14,000 yuan.
相对来说，伦敦至上海价格会便宜些，3月24日，伦敦至上海最低3371元，但是需要斯德哥尔摩、曼谷、深圳中转3次，总共历时39.5个小时。
London to Shanghai will be relatively cheap, with a minimum of 3,371 yuan from London to Shanghai on March 24, but will require three transit trips to Stockholm, Bangkok and Shenzhen for a total of 39.5 hours.
“我很担心能不能飞，每天都打电话给机场确认。
"I was worried about being able to fly and called the airport every day to confirm.
”小赵说。
"said little Zhao.
像她一样的留学生很多，有人甚至表示“每天刷新一百遍航班状态”。
There were many students like her, and some even said, "Refresh your flight a hundred times a day."
航班管家的数据显示，随着疫情发展，意大利每日出港航班量正迅速缩减。
The number of daily flights out of Italy is shrinking rapidly as the epidemic progresses, according to flight stewards.
为了应对航班取消的情况，不少留学生选择买两份不同路线的回程机票保底。
To cope with the cancellation of flights, many students choose to buy two different routes back to the bottom of the plane ticket.
随着多个国家和地区逐步封关和停航，可以选择转地点也越来越少。
As many countries and regions gradually closed and stopped sailing, the choice of transfer location is also less and less.
如新加坡要求从3月18日起，过去14天有中国大陆、伊朗、韩国、意大利等国旅行或转机史的乘客，暂不允许入境或在新加坡抓转机；阿联酋将于3月19日起暂停对各国公民的免签、落地签政策；德国方面正实施管制边境，丹麦、法国、奥地利、瑞士和卢森堡边境关闭。
The UAE will suspend visa-free and visa-on-arrival policies for its citizens from 19 March. Germany is enforcing border controls, and Denmark, France, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg are closing their borders.
英国机场运营协会表示，由于新冠肺炎流行，如果没有政府支持，英国机场将在几周之内关闭。
The British Airports Council said the UK airport would be closed in a matter of weeks without government support because of the outbreak of pneumonia.
由于航空公司和机场发布政策渠道并不顺畅，不少留学生到机场才发现无法登机的情况。
Because airline and airport policy channels are not smooth, many students arrive at the airport to find that boarding is not possible.
此前，有意大利华人准备乘坐俄航回国时，临时被航空公司以“俄航在罗马机场的最新政策是只允许欧亚经济联盟五个国家的公民入境”为理由拒绝登机，造成五十余名旅客滞留机场。
Earlier, some Italian Chinese were temporarily refused permission to board the plane on the grounds that "RAS's latest policy at Rome airport is to allow citizens from only five EAU countries," leaving more than 50 passengers stranded at the airport.
长途旅行的感染风险即使订到机票，坐上航班，也可能意味着才迈出艰难行程的第一步。
The Risk of a Long Journey Even if you book an air ticket and get on a flight, it could be the first step in a difficult journey.
首先，全副武装防护坐飞机，是所有人前所未有的经历。
First, flying on a heavily armed plane is an unprecedented experience for all.
有意大利华人撰文记录了疫情下的意大利机场：3月12日，机场电子屏满屏的大红色“cancellato”，明显空荡了许多的check-in大厅里，只有我这趟航班排着长队，队伍里九成以上都是中国面孔，九成以上戴着一次性手套，全部戴了至少一层口罩，偶尔能看到一两个防护服。
Chinese-Italians have written about Italy's airports in the face of the epidemic: on March 12, the airport's electronic screen filled with large red "cancellato," apparently empty of many check-in halls, with more than 90% of the line in a long queue of Chinese faces, more than 90% wearing disposable gloves, all wearing at least one mask, and occasionally one or two protective clothing.
等到登机的时候，更神奇的一幕出现了：更多人穿上了防护服，恍惚间我们像是要坐飞船去外太空的宇航员。
By the time we got on the plane, a more magical sight appeared: more people were wearing protective clothing, vaguely conscious that we were going to take a spaceship to outer space.
实际上，机场、航班上都属于人员密集场所、具有感染危险，选择长途跋涉回国也面临一定的风险。
In fact, airports, flights are densely populated places, with the risk of infection, the choice of a long journey home also faces certain risks.
在18日北京疫情防控工作会上，北京疾控中心副主任庞星火就表示，真诚提示境外留学生，坚持非必要，不旅行的原则。
At the 18 th Beijing epidemic prevention and control meeting, the Beijing CDC deputy director Pang Xinghua said that the sincere reminder of overseas students, adhere to the principle of non-necessary, non-travel.
如非十分必要，应暂停回国或赴有疫情国家、地区的出行安排，减少长途旅行导致的感染风险。
If it is not necessary, we should suspend the travel arrangements to the affected countries and regions to reduce the risk of infection caused by long-distance travel.
作为主要入境口岸的北京机场，每天都有输入型病例增加。
At Beijing airport, the main port of entry, there is an increase in imported cases every day.
据北京市疾控中心，仅3月16日一天，北京就报告了9例输入性病例，涉及6个航班，其中俄航SU204有3例，国航CA908有2例，阿航EY888有1例，国航CA962、864、988各1例。
On March 16 alone, Beijing reported nine imported cases involving six flights, including three by Russian Airlines SU204, two by Air China CA908, one by AAC EY888 and one each by Air China's CA962, 864 and 988.
“EY888，我就是那个航班的乘客。
"EY888, I'm the passenger on that flight.
”看到疫情通报后，留学生小李非常担心，“在飞机上见到有人主动申请到后三排的隔离区就座，在飞机上也有感染风险。
"Xiao Li, an international student, was very worried when he saw the notification of the outbreak." On the plane, someone volunteered to sit in the back three rows of isolation and there was a risk of infection on the plane.
”据小李回忆，EY888是波音777大飞机执飞，飞机上座率很高，搭载了近500名乘客。
Mr Li recalled that the EY888 was a Boeing 777 pilot with a high occupancy rate and nearly 500 passengers on board.
中转加上时差，小李的行程总计40个小时，因为太渴了，她在飞机上还喝了点水。
With the difference of time and transit, Xiao Li made a 40-hour trip. She was so thirsty that she drank some water on the plane.
到北京后，经过咽拭子测试后，她被允许搭乘飞机从北京飞往重庆，航班上，她和其他十几名国际航班乘客被安排到飞机后三排隔离区就座。
After swabbing tests in Beijing, she was allowed to fly from Beijing to Chongqing, where she and a dozen other passengers on international flights were seated in the three rows of separation behind the plane.
在重庆接受集中隔离的三天里，她又接受了三次咽拭子检测，目前均为阴性。
During the three days of intensive isolation in Chongqing, she underwent three more swabs, all negative.
3月16日下午三点，张同学落地北京，由于体温测试37度，在经历了6个小时的测试和等待后，她和其他名有疑似症状的国际航班旅客被送往北京地坛医院进行检测。
Zhang, who landed in Beijing at 3 pm on March 16, was taken to Beijing's Ditan Hospital for tests after six hours of testing and waiting for a temperature test of 37 degrees.
经历了一宿的隔离，白天进行完核酸、CT、血常规及抗体的检测没有问题后，她被送到在北京的临时隔离点，这时她已经三十多个小时没睡觉了。
After a night of isolation and no problems with tests for nucleic acids, CT, blood routines and antibodies during the day, she was sent to a temporary quarantine in Beijing, where she had not slept for more than 30 hours.
“虽然我们在从下飞机一直到医院约30小时没睡觉没休息，但是看到在岗位上工作的那几个医生、护士、工作人员，他们真的也很辛苦，做事都能特别耐心，一直不休息，有点心疼。
"Although we stayed up for about 30 hours from the time we got off the plane to the hospital, we saw the doctors, nurses and staff working on the job who were really working very hard and very patient, not resting, a little distressed.
”“这几天一直没休息好，一天一顿饭都吃不上或者只吃上一顿，到下午人就很疲倦，有时体温会到37度。
"" I haven't had a good rest these days; I haven't had a meal or just had one meal a day, and in the afternoon people get tired and sometimes get a temperature of 37 degrees.
”张同学说，回来之前她很放心，自己在意大利并没有密切接触者，但担心在机场和医院有交叉感染的风险。
Zhang said she was reassured to return that she had no close contacts in Italy but was concerned about the risk of cross-infection at airports and hospitals.
“我们支持加大回国人员的筛查隔离，但希望不要所有人长时间集中在一起。
"We support increased screening and segregation of returnees, but we hope that not all people will stay together for long periods of time.
”按照要求，从重点地区回国，目的地是北京的入境人员将被转送至北京市的集中观察点进行14天的隔离观察。
Upon return from key areas, people arriving in Beijing will be transferred to Beijing's centralized observation point for 14 days.
目的地在上海的，如通过检疫和体温筛查，可以居家隔离14天。
Destinations in Shanghai, such as quarantine and temperature screening, can be isolated at home for 14 days.
但即使符合居家隔离条件的留学生也担心传染家里人。
But even students who qualify for home segregation worry about infecting their families.
有留学生表示，计划让家人在机场把车和房钥匙交接，自己单独居住，避免和家人接触。
Some students say they plan to have their families hand over their car and keys at the airport, live alone and avoid contact with their families.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
意大利留学生回国路：为了回家，我先去了趟非洲。
Italian students return home: To go home, I went to Africa first.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "意大利留学生回国路：为了回家，我先去了趟非洲";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "因担心意大利疫情加剧，不少当地留学生选择回国。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Many local students have chosen to return home, fearing an increase in the Italian epidemic.
飙升的票价、不断取消的航班、各国趋严的出入境政策，让他们行程充满波折、等待和风险。
Soaring ticket prices, canceling flights, and tighter immigration rules across the world have made their journeys fraught with ups and downs, waits and risks.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
