《新英格兰医学杂志》：抗艾滋药物未能缩短新冠患者病情改善时间。
New England Journal of Medicine: Anti-AIDS drugs have failed to shorten the period of improvement in new crown patients.
谢欣。
Xie Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：谢欣 编辑：许悦“ 但这并不就意味着，与常规治疗相比，新冠病毒感染者在使用洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗后毫无获益。
Source: Toothworm reporter: Xie Yue, editor: Xu Yue, but this does not mean that people with the new crown virus do not benefit from Lopinavir / Ritonavir treatment compared to conventional treatment.
”3月19日，由北京中日医院和武汉金银潭医院合作共同完成的全球第一项新冠肺炎COVID-19的随机对照临床试验结果在《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）上在线发表。
The results of the world's first randomized controlled clinical trial of COVID-19, the world's first new crown pneumonia, were published online in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) on March 19.
该临床试验旨在研究洛匹那韦/利托那韦（克力芝）治疗重症新冠肺炎（COVID-19）的临床效果。
The clinical trial was designed to study the clinical effects of Lopinavir / Ritonavir in the treatment of severe new crown pneumonia (COVID-19).
这也是新冠病毒疫情暴发以来，世界顶级医学杂志首次发表治疗新冠肺炎的临床试验结果，同期配发的NEJM社论称赞中国的研究者们，在如此困难的疫情暴发之际进行的临床试验为英勇之举。
This is the first time since the outbreak that the world's leading medical journal has published the results of a clinical trial to treat new crown pneumonia, and NEJM editorials in the same period praised Chinese researchers for their heroic clinical trials at a time of such difficult outbreaks.
这项临床试验的英文缩写为LOTUS China (Lopinavir Trial for Suppression of SARS-Cov-2 in China)，通讯作者为中日友好医院曹彬教授、武汉市金银潭医院院长张定宇、中国工程院王辰院士。
The acronym for the clinical trial, LOTUS China (Lopinavir Tribunal for Supply of SARS-Cov-2 in China), was written by Professor Cao Bin of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, Zhang Dingyu of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital of Wuhan City and Wang Chen Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
第一作者还有首都医科大学呼吸病学系王业明博士，中日临床医学研究所范国辉。
The first author is Dr. Wang Yiming, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Capital Medical University.
根据曹彬透露，今年1月初在金银潭医院参加救治时，首先想到了法匹拉韦作为候选药物，随后又筛选出洛匹那韦/利托那韦和瑞德西韦两个药物，考虑到临床可及性（法匹拉韦与瑞德西韦当时在中国尚未上市）问题，选择首先对洛匹那韦/利托那韦开展临床试验。
According to Cao, Fapiravi was the first candidate for treatment at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in early January, and Lopinavir / Ritonavir and Rhetsevir were selected for clinical trials in Lopinavir / Litonavir, given their clinical availability (Fapiravi and Rhetsevir were not listed in China at the time).
洛匹那韦/利托那韦是一款艾滋病老药，为新冠病毒疫情爆发后最早被指出“可能有效”的药品。
Lopinavir / Ritonavir is an old AIDS drug that was first shown to be "potentially effective" after the outbreak of the new crown virus.
不过，研究结果显示，在重症COVID-19成人住院患者中，与常规治疗相比，未观察到洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗获益，这主要体现在与单独采用常规支持治疗相比，在常规治疗的基础上加用洛匹那韦/利托那韦并未出现临床状况改善或死亡率降低。
However, the results of the study showed that the benefits of Lopinavir / Ritonavir treatment were not observed in adult patients with severe COVID-19 compared to routine treatment, mainly in the absence of an improvement in clinical conditions or a reduction in mortality in patients treated with Lopinavir / Ritonavir on the basis of conventional treatment alone.
但在一些次要的临床指标，以及改良意向治疗分析中，使用洛匹那韦/利托那韦的患者显示出了临床获益。
However, patients using Lopinavir / Ritonavir have shown clinical benefits in a number of secondary clinical indicators, as well as in improved intention treatment analyses.
早在2月22日，上海公卫中心也曾发表研究，称未发现克力芝/阿比多尔治疗新冠肺炎作用，但当时也同时表示研究效力存疑。
As early as February 22, the Shanghai Public Health Center published a study saying it had found no evidence of Kaletra / Abidol treating pneumonia, but at the same time expressed doubts about the efficacy of the study.
北京中日医院和武汉金银潭医院合作共同完成的这组试验，共纳入了199例实验室确诊的SARS-CoV-2感染患者，99例患者被随机分配至洛匹那韦/利托那韦组，100例被分配至常规治疗组，洛匹那韦/利托那韦组患者接受14天的每天两次洛匹那韦/利托那韦（400 mg/100 mg）治疗。
A group of 199 laboratory-confirmed cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection were included in this group, with 99 patients randomly assigned to the Lopinavir / Litonavir group, 100 to the routine treatment group, and the Lopinavir / Litonavir group to receive two treatments of Lopinavir / Ritonavir (400 mg / 100 mg / 100 mg) twice a day for 14 days.
研究团队表示，由于来不及制备安慰剂，所以本次试验未能采用双盲法。
The team said it was too late to prepare a placebo, so the trial failed to use the double-blind method.
患者中位年龄为58岁，60.3%的患者为男性。
The median age of the patients was 58 years and 60.3 per cent of the patients were men.
出现症状和随机分组的中位间隔时间为13天，在人口统计学特征、基线实验室检查结果、等级量表评分分布情况或入组时的NEWS2评分方面，两组间无重要差异。
The median interval between symptom onset and randomization was 13 days, with no significant difference between the two groups in terms of demographic characteristics, baseline laboratory test results, scale distribution, or NEWS2 scores at time of entry.
试验期间，洛匹那韦/利托那韦组33.0%的患者和常规治疗组35.7%的患者接受了全身糖皮质激素治疗。
During the trial, 33.0 per cent of patients in the Lopinavir / Ritonavir group and 35.7 per cent of patients in the routine treatment group were treated with whole body glucocorticoid.
试验的主要终点是至临床状况改善的时间，即将患者病情分为一个7分等级量表，观察患者从随机分组时至量表得分改善2分、或至出院的时间（以先发生的一项为准）。
The main endpoint of the trial was until clinical improvement, when the patient's condition was classified into a 7-point scale and the patient was observed to improve by two points from random grouping to scale, or by the time of discharge, whichever came first.
7分等级量表包括：1. 未住院，且可继续从事日常活动；2. 未住院，但无法继续从事日常活动；3. 住院治疗，不需要吸氧；4. 住院治疗，需要吸氧；5. 住院治疗，需要经鼻高流量氧疗、无创机械通气或这两者；6. 住院治疗，需要ECMO、有创机械通气或这两者均需要；7. 死亡。
7 Scale includes: 1. Unhospitalized and able to continue daily activities; 2. Not hospitalized but unable to continue daily activities; 3. In-patient treatment requiring oxygen inhalation; 4. In-patient care requiring high nasal flow oxygen therapy, non-invasive mechanical ventilation or both; 6. In-patient care requiring ECMO, invasive mechanical ventilation or both; and 7.
这也是世界卫生组织研发蓝图（R&D Blueprint）专家组推荐的终点。
This was also the destination recommended by R & amp; D Blueprint, a WHO expert group.
其他临床结局还包括，在第7日和第14日时采用7分等级量表评估的临床状况、28日死亡率、机械通气持续时间、生存者的住院时长以及从治疗开始至死亡的时间。
Other clinical outcomes included clinical status, 28-day mortality, duration of mechanical ventilation, length of stay in hospital for survivors, and time between treatment and death using a 7-point scale as at 7 and 14.
病毒学指标包括随时间推移，检出病毒RNA的患者比例以及病毒RNA滴度曲线下面积（AUC）测定值。
Virological indicators include the proportion of patients detected with RNA over time and the area under the viral RNA titration curve (AUC).
由于3患者在随机分组后24小时内死亡，2例患者的主治医师拒绝开出洛匹那韦/利托那韦，实际上共有94例患者接受了洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗。
Since three patients died within 24 hours of randomized grouping, two patients' attending physicians refused to prescribe Lopinavir / Ritonavir, and a total of 94 patients were actually treated with Lopinavir / Ritonavir.
结果显示，在主要终点，即临床状况改善的时间上，洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗与常规治疗无差异。
The results showed that there was no difference between Lopinavir / ritonavir treatment and routine treatment at the main endpoint, when clinical conditions improved.
洛匹那韦/利托那韦组和常规治疗组的28日死亡率相似（19.2%vs. 25.0%）。
The 28-day mortality rate in the Lopinavir / Ritonavir group was similar to that in the routine treatment group (19.2% vs. 25.0%).
两组在各时间点可检出病毒RNA的患者百分比相似。
The percentage of patients in both groups who were able to detect viral RNA at various points in time was similar.
但这并不就意味着，与常规治疗相比，新冠病毒感染者在使用洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗后毫无获益。
This does not mean, however, that new-crown virus infections do not benefit from Lopinavir / Ritonavir treatment compared to conventional treatment.
在排除了3例早期死亡患者的改良意向治疗分析中，两组间至临床状况改善的中位时间（15天vs16天）尽管差异很小但达到了统计学显著性。
In the modified intention treatment analysis that excluded 3 cases of early death, the median time between the two groups (15 days vs 16 days) for improvement in clinical conditions was statistically significant, although the difference was small.
此外，通过亚组分析发现，在症状出现后12日内接受治疗的患者，接受洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗的临床状况迅速康复中位时间为16.0日，少于常规治疗的17.0日，且死亡率19.0%较低于常规治疗27.1%。
In addition, subgroup analysis found that patients who received treatment within 12 days of symptom onset had a median clinical recovery time of 16.0 days for Lopinavir / Ritonavir treatment, less than 17.0 days for routine treatment, and a lower mortality rate of 19.0 per cent compared with 27.1 per cent for routine treatment.
但在症状出现后12日之后接受治疗的亚组中，并没有发现这一情况。
However, this was not found in the subgroup that received treatment 12 days after the onset of symptoms.
研究团队认为，这表明，对COVID-19早期采取洛匹那韦-利托那韦治疗是否具有临床益处是一个需要进一步研究的重要问题。
In the team's view, this suggests that the clinical benefit of the early use of Lopinavir-Ritonavir for COVID-19 is an important issue requiring further study.
这一观察结果与有研究表明SARS-CoV-2病毒性肺炎在发病第2周发生进展一致，也与之前在SARS和严重流感的抗病毒研究中观察到的起效时间一致。
This observation is consistent with studies showing that SARS-CoV-2 virus pneumonia progresses in the second week of onset, and with the onset times previously observed in SARS and severe influenza antiviral studies.
此外，在接受洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗的患者中，发生严重并发症（急性肾损伤和继发感染）或因呼吸衰竭而需要无创或有创机械通气的人数，少于未接受洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗的患者。
In addition, fewer patients were treated with Lopinavir / Ritonavir than those who did not receive Lopinavir / Ritonavir for serious complications (acute renal injury and secondary infection) or non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation due to respiratory failure.
曹彬表示，面对新发突发呼吸道传染病，快速明确有效治疗药物十分困难。
Cao Bin said that in the face of new outbreaks of respiratory infectious diseases, rapid, clear and effective treatment of drugs is difficult.
无论是2003年的SARS疫情，2012年沙特阿拉伯MERS疫情，此前的一些关于洛匹那韦/利托那韦、利巴韦林、干扰素的研究都未得出明确结论，连续错失探索治疗冠状病毒药物的机会，间接导致此次COVID-19全球流行无确切抗病毒药物的窘境。
Whether it was the SARS epidemic in 2003, the Saudi Arabian MERS epidemic in 2012, previous studies on Lopinavir / Litonavir, Ribavirin, and Interferon have not led to clear conclusions, with successive missed opportunities to explore drugs to treat coronavirus, indirectly contributing to the global pandemic of COVID-19 without precise antiviral drugs.
而本研究结果不但相对清晰明确了洛匹那韦/利托那韦对重症COVID-19有一定临床获益，而且为今后探索有效抗病毒药物积累了宝贵的经验。
The results of this study not only clearly identify the relative clinical benefits of Lopinavir / Ritonavir for severe COVID-19, but also accumulate valuable experience for the future exploration of effective antiviral drugs.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
《新英格兰医学杂志》：抗艾滋药物未能缩短新冠患者病情改善时间。
New England Journal of Medicine: Anti-AIDS drugs have failed to shorten the period of improvement in new crown patients.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "《新英格兰医学杂志》：抗艾滋药物未能缩短新冠患者病情改善时间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; New England Journal of Medicine: Anti-AIDS drugs did not shorten & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "但这并不就意味着，与常规治疗相比，新冠病毒感染者在使用洛匹那韦/利托那韦治疗后毫无获益。
var msg _ desc = & quot; but this does not mean that people with the new crown virus have benefited little from Lopinavir / Ritonavir treatment compared with routine treatment.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
