北京警方：澳籍跑步女被注销工作许可，限期离境。
BEIJING POLICE: Australian women runners were given work permits to leave Australia for a limited period of time.
平安北京。
Ping An Beijing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国本文来源：平安北京“ 3月15日15时许，朝阳公安分局接某小区卫生防疫工作人员报警称：一女子拒不配合社区防疫工作。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "At about 1500 hours on March 15, a woman refused to cooperate with community epidemic prevention efforts, a health and epidemic prevention worker in a residential area at Chaoyang Public Security Bureau reported.
接报警后，呼家楼派出所民警立即赶赴现场开展工作。
After receiving the alarm, Hou Jia building police station police immediately rushed to the scene to work.
”据@平安北京通报，当前，境外疫情加速扩散蔓延，防范境外疫情输入已成为防控工作的重中之重。
According to @ Ping An Beijing, the epidemic is spreading rapidly across the border, and preventing the import of epidemic information from abroad has become a top priority in prevention and control efforts.
近期，我市连续推出严格管控措施，广大入境进京人员主动配合，积极落实防控责任，但仍有个别人员拒不执行防控措施，存在疫情传播扩散的潜在风险。
Recently, the city launched strict control measures, the vast number of people into Beijing to actively cooperate in the implementation of prevention and control responsibilities, but there are still individuals who refuse to implement prevention and control measures, there is a potential risk of the spread of the epidemic.
3月15日15时许，朝阳公安分局接某小区卫生防疫工作人员报警称：一女子拒不配合社区防疫工作。
At about 1500 hours on March 15, Chaoyang Public Security Bureau received a community health and epidemic prevention staff alarm: a woman refused to cooperate with community epidemic prevention work.
接报警后，呼家楼派出所民警立即赶赴现场开展工作。
After receiving the alarm, Hou Jia building police station police immediately rushed to the scene to work.
经核查，梁某妍，女，47岁，澳大利亚籍，就职于拜耳医药保健有限公司，3月14日由首都机场入境进京，工作居留许可有效期至2020年9月5日。
It was verified that Liang Mu-yan, female, aged 47, of Australian nationality, worked in Bayer Medical and Health Company Limited, entered Beijing on 14 March from the Capital Airport and had a work residence permit valid until 5 September 2020.
15日下午，本应在租住地居家观察的梁某妍，未戴口罩在小区内跑步，社区卫生防疫工作人员发现后进行劝阻，但该人情绪激动，拒不配合。
On the afternoon of May 15, Yan Liang, who was supposed to be at the rented house, ran around the block without a mask. Community health and epidemic prevention workers tried to dissuade him, but the man was agitated and refused to cooperate.
民警到场后，对梁某妍进行了批评教育，要求其严格遵守疫情防控相关规定，梁某妍表示服从管理，未再外出。
After the police arrived, Liang Yanyan was criticized and educated, and asked him to strictly abide by the regulations on disease prevention and control.
梁某妍的行为在网上曝光后，引发社会关注，所在公司对其辞退处理。
Liang's behavior in the online exposure, caused social concern, his company to dismiss its treatment.
3月18日，北京市公安局出入境管理局依据《中华人民共和国出境入境管理法》第六十七条等规定，决定依法注销梁某妍工作类居留许可、限期离境。
On March 18, the Entry and Exit Administration Bureau of the Beijing Public Security Bureau decided to cancel Liang's work permit and leave the country for a limited period of time according to article 67 of the Law of the People's Republic of China on Entry and Exit.
健康安全大环境不容半点闪失。
Health and safety must not be allowed to slip.
北京处在防范境外疫情输入的最前沿，入境进京人员应与广大首都市民一道，严格遵守我国法律法规及北京市疫情防控相关规定，自觉履行防控责任和义务，齐心协力、共同守护来之不易的疫情防控成果。
Beijing is in the forefront of efforts to prevent the importation of foreign epidemic diseases. People entering Beijing should work with the people of the capital city to strictly abide by our laws and regulations and the relevant provisions of Beijing's epidemic prevention and control, conscientiously fulfill their responsibilities and obligations of prevention and control, and work together to safeguard the hard-won achievements of disease prevention and control.
对拒不执行疫情防控措施的，北京警方将依法追究法律责任。
Beijing police will investigate legal responsibility for refusing to carry out epidemic prevention and control measures.
- END -点击图片查看相关内容。
-END - Click on the picture to view the content.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
北京警方：澳籍跑步女被注销工作许可，限期离境。
BEIJING POLICE: Australian women runners were given work permits to leave Australia for a limited period of time.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "北京警方：澳籍跑步女被注销工作许可，限期离境";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Beijing police: Australian running girls have had their work permits cancelled, and RDL & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "3月15日15时许，朝阳公安分局接某小区卫生防疫工作人员报警称：一女子拒不配合社区防疫工作。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at about 15 a.m. on 15 March, a district health and epidemic prevention worker at Chaoyang Public Security Bureau reported that a woman refused to cooperate with community epidemic prevention efforts.
接报警后，呼家楼派出所民警立即赶赴现场开展工作。
After receiving the alarm, Hou Jia building police station police immediately rushed to the scene to work.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '返京澳籍华人“跑步女”系拜耳员工，公司声明立刻辞退此人',。
Running woman at home with Chinese Australians is a Bayer employee and the company says it immediately fired him.
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
