中国留学生“疫”中归国记：我们为什么回来。
Returning home from the "plague" of Chinese students: Why did we come back?
田思奇 王磬。
Chime of Tennessee.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
中午时分伦敦Tesco超市的牙膏架 拍摄：高山清记者：田思奇 王磬 编辑：曾宇“ 直到登机，一些被迫回国的同学仍在犹豫是走是留。
Tesco supermarket in London at noon toothpaste rack shooting: Ko Ko Qing reporter: Tian Siqi Qi editor: "Teng Yu, until boarding, some students forced to return to the country are still hesitating whether to walk or stay.
落地后的检疫和隔离安排很细致，不少同学表示不想连累家人，即便没有强制政策，也会申请集中隔离。
Quarantine and quarantine arrangements after landing are very detailed, many students do not want to compromise their families, even if there is no mandatory policy, will apply for centralized isolation.
”进入3月以来，新冠肺炎疫情在中国国内持稳向好，而全球多国却呈现蔓延扩大之势。
Since March, the outbreak of pneumonia in China has held steady at home, while many countries around the world are spreading.
不少国家学校开始停课、现场教学取消、防护物资紧俏，一些孤身滞留海外的中国留学生，在“走”与“留”之间艰难取舍。
In many countries, schools are closed, on-site teaching canceled and protective materials are tight. Some Chinese students who stay overseas alone have a difficult choice between going and staying.
国外疫情如何？学校防控怎样？是什么让他们下定决心回国？机场和航班上什么状况？落地后国内检疫和隔离如何安排？这是三位留学生讲述的回家故事。
What is the epidemic abroad? How do schools prevent and control it? What makes them decide to return home? What happens at airports and on flights? How are quarantine and quarantine arrangements arranged after landing? This is the story of three foreign students returning home.
从美国到成都：直到登机前还有些犹豫“很重要的一个信号是酒精都买不到了，我就感觉不太好了。
From the United States to Chengdu: There was some hesitation until I got on the plane. "The important signal is that alcohol is not available and I don't feel so good.
”——Yao，美国匹兹堡大学在读博士研究生。
"--Yao, PhD, University of Pittsburgh, USA.
行程：3月13日乘达美航空从匹兹堡到温哥华后，转乘四川航空降落成都。
Trip: From Pittsburgh to Vancouver by Delta Airlines on March 13 and then transferred to Chengdu by Sichuan Airlines.
3月15日起集中隔离14天。
Segregation began on 15 March for 14 days.
3月2日这周，学校最早的防控措施是从电梯等公共空间增加免洗洗手液开始的。
The earliest prevention and control in schools began this week with the addition of wash-free hand sanitizers to public spaces such as elevators.
“3月9日学校开始放春假，11日左右宣布要上网课，很可能持续到学期结束。
"Spring break starts on March 9 and online classes are announced around March 11, probably until the end of the term.
图书馆还开，有些学生还住在宿舍。
The library is open and some students still live in dormitories.
”在匹兹堡大学读博的Yao同学对界面新闻说。
Yao, who reads blogs at the University of Pittsburgh, told Interface News.
离开美国前，他没戴过口罩，路上戴的也大多是亚洲人。
Before leaving the United States, he did not wear a mask, and most of the road was worn by Asians.
临走前去超市，食物供应还充足，但没有卫生纸，口罩和洗手液更是“从没买到过”。
At the supermarket, food was plentiful, but there was no toilet paper, and surgical masks and hand sanitizers were "never bought."
“早先中国国内疫情爆发时，很多华人买下口罩寄回国，好在自己备下了一些。
"When the epidemic broke out in China earlier, many Chinese bought masks and sent them home.
”他说。
'he said.
Yao在3月9日买了13日的机票，从匹兹堡到温哥华再到成都，总共800美元。
Yao bought a 13-day flight from Pittsburgh to Vancouver to Chengdu on March 9 for a total of $800.
“直到登机前我还犹豫是不是要回来，”他说，“但很重要的一个信号是酒精买不到了。
"I was hesitant to return until I got on the plane," he said, "but one important sign was that alcohol was not available.
先是口罩，然后是免洗洗手液，临走前酒精也买不到，我就感觉不太好了。
First the mask, then the wash-free liquid, before leaving the alcohol can not buy, I feel not so good.
”“美国的疫情发展不很明朗。
"The development of the epidemic in the United States is not clear.
回来时中国疫情已经很明显得到控制，美国才刚开始。
By the time China returned, the epidemic was clearly under control, and the United States was just beginning.
”Yao课业压力不大，只需和老师保持沟通。
Yao's schoolwork is not stressful, so just keep in touch with the teacher.
一些人不回国是因为担心路上危险，但也有人心大。
Some do not return home out of fear of danger on the road, but also because of the human heart.
“我也劝过一些人回国，对方回答是：我回国了那我养的老鼠怎么办？”回来的飞机上人们全程戴口罩——国内航空公司不戴口罩不能上飞机，“四川航空看你没有，会给你发口罩”。
"I also advised some people to return home, the other side said: I returned to the country to do what about my rats?" People back on the plane wearing masks - domestic airlines can not wear masks, "Sichuan Airlines see you do not, will give you a mask."
落地后，疾控中心的工作人员拿着名单登机，叫走了名单上所有的人。
When it landed, CDC staff boarded the plane with the list and called off all the people on the list.
“后来我知道那些是来自疫情重点国家的人，需要集中隔离，不在名单上的就是居家隔离。
"I learned later that those from priority countries needed to be concentrated in quarantine, and those who were not on the list were isolated at home.
当时对重点国家的定义是意大利、韩国、日本、伊朗和美国，只要此前14天去过其中一个就算，但定义和政策都是随疫情变化的。
At the time, the focus countries were defined as Italy, South Korea, Japan, Iran, and the United States, and only one of them had been visited in the previous 14 days, but definitions and policies evolved with the epidemic.
”他说。
'he said.
Yao也是来自“疫情重点国家”的入境人员。
Yao is also an immigrant from the "priority countries of the epidemic."
下飞机后，他跟着工作人员指引，测体温后入住酒店。
When he got off the plane, he followed the staff's instructions, took his temperature and checked into the hotel.
Yao说，他这批隔离是免费的，但即使没有强制集中隔离，他也会找地方自己隔离起来，不去连累家人，让他们麻烦。
Yao said his isolation was free, but even if it weren't for the forced confinement, he would find a place to isolate himself, without harming his family and causing them trouble.
从法国到南京：落地检疫和安排很细致“三位工作人员在家门口等我，感觉很隆重。
From France to Nanjing: Quarantine on the ground and arrangements are very meticulous "three staff members waiting for me in front of my home, feeling very solemn.
”——刘明（化名），南京大学法语系学生，在法国里尔政治学院交换。
Liu Ming (not his real name), a French language student at Nanjing University, exchanged at the Lille School of Politics in France.
行程：3月14日乘东方航空从巴黎直飞上海。
Programme: March 14 by Eastern Airlines direct flight from Paris to Shanghai.
3月15日经统一安排回到南京，开始在家隔离。
March 15 unified arrangements to return to Nanjing, began to isolate at home.
3月14日的戴高乐机场还不拥挤，流量如同往常。
Charles de Gaulle airport was not crowded on March 14, and traffic was as usual.
自1月17日春季学期开学还不到两个月，刘明又从法国回到了中国。
Less than two months after the start of the spring term on January 17, Liu Ming has returned to China from France.
3月初的法国疫情已经比较严重，有人拿意大利的上升曲线对比后估计，法国确诊病例在本周末（3月21-22日）就会上万。
In France, where the epidemic was already severe in early March, a comparison of Italy's upward curve estimates that confirmed cases in France will occur this weekend (March 21-22).
“那时就等着政府是不是宣布停课，不停课我就不买机票，不然走了会放弃学分。
"It's waiting for the government to announce that it will suspend classes and I won't buy tickets unless I stop, or I'll give up my credits when I leave.
”在法国里尔政治学院交换学习的刘明对界面新闻说。
"Liu Ming, who studies at the Lille School of Politics in France, told Interface News.
3月12日晚上，在看到马克龙在直播讲话中宣布停课后，刘明马上动手买票。
On the evening of March 12, after seeing Macron suspend classes in a live speech, Liu Ming immediately started buying tickets.
“那时比平常稍贵一点，东航直达上海的经济舱人民币22000元一张。
"It was a little more expensive than usual," he said. "China Eastern went directly to Shanghai for 22,000 yuan.
如果是商务舱要6、7万。
67,000 if it's business class.
在法兰克福转机是10000元，在莫斯科转机是5000到6000元。
The connecting flight is 10,000 yuan in Frankfurt and 5,000 to 6,000 yuan in Moscow.
”他觉得转机不安全，就买了直航。
"Feeling unsafe for a change, he bought a direct flight.
“我是交换生，本来就要回国。
"I am an exchange student and would have returned home.
有些人拿着外国国籍或者永居，生了病才回国，这跟我情况不一样。
Some people return home with foreign nationality or permanent residence and get sick, which is not the case with me.
”他说。
'he said.
“我有朋友之前就回去了，他们觉得学分和成绩不重要，而我是不想补修。
"I went back before I had a friend. They didn't think credits and grades were important and I didn't want to fix them.
”为防传染风险，航空公司要求飞机上全程无接触。
To protect against the risk of infection, airlines require aircraft to be in full contact.
空乘都戴了口罩和护目镜，会把餐食提前送到座位上。
The flight attendants, all wearing masks and goggles, will bring the meal to their seats in advance.
“飞机其实没坐满，我全程戴口罩，”刘明说，“机上绝大多数是中国人，外国人也戴了口罩。
"The plane wasn't full. I wore a mask all the way," Liu said. "Most of the people on board were Chinese.
不过在巴黎机场只有10%的人戴。
However, only 10 per cent of people wear them at Paris airport.
”航班在3月15日早6点降落浦东机场，而乘客出机场已快8点。
The flight landed at Pudong Airport at 6 a.m. on March 15, and passengers were leaving the airport nearly eight o'clock.
每个人下飞机都要接受非常仔细的检疫。
Everyone gets off the plane under very careful quarantine.
“先是伊朗和意大利的旅客下去，然后是被报到名字的人，可能是有接触史，然后就是一批一批下，每批大概20人。
"First passengers from Iran and Italy, then people who have been reported, probably with a history of contact, then groups of about 20 people each.
”据刘明介绍，下飞机前人们都要填两张表，一张回答有没有去过高危地区、有没有症状、家在哪里；另一张是健康表。
Before disembarking, people had to fill out two forms, one answering whether they had been to a high-risk area, whether they had symptoms or where they were at home, and the other was a health form, Liu said.
“填好后会给你一个码，有ABCD四种码，我的码是绿色的。
"Fill it out and give you a code, ABCD size four, my code is green.
跟我一起下来的人都是绿色的，需要全程把健康码举着。
The people I came down with were green and needed to carry their health codes all the way down.
”下飞机后，在问询的地方，有绿色健康码的人可以通过，这片区域会有人问“是不是去过意大利、伊朗，之前的行程怎样”。
After getting off the plane, people with green health codes can pass through the area where people ask, "Have you been to Italy, Iran, what was your previous trip?"
“他们告诉你不能瞒报，否则要受法律制裁。
They told you not to hide the fact, or you would be punished.
要相信上海的医疗，如有症状如实报，在这里治疗很放心。
To believe in Shanghai's medical treatment, if there are symptoms reported truthfully, treatment here is very reassuring.
”刘明回忆说。
"said Liu Ming.
虽然没有症状，但由于是从疫区回来，刘明还是被贴上了一个黄标签。
Although there were no symptoms, Liu Ming was still labeled yellow due to his return from the epidemic area.
之后，人们上交出入境表格，登记护照号和姓名，拿完行李后，在各地安排接收的区域，江苏和浙江的工作人员已在等候。
After that, people hand in their entry and exit forms, register their passport numbers and names, take their luggage and arrange the receiving areas in various places.
来自江苏的刘明在收到江苏省发的另一张表后，坐上了江苏的专车，从上海机场转移到苏州昆山，一车20个人。
After receiving another form from Jiangsu Province, Liu Ming got on a special bus from Jiangsu Province and moved from Shanghai airport to Kunshan, Suzhou, with a load of 20 people.
抵达花神会展中心后，江苏13市每个市都设有区域和专车。
After arriving at Huaxian Convention and Exhibition Center, each city in Jiangsu Province has its own area and special bus.
刘明坐到南京仙灵，人们下车后再按家庭住址等候各区的专车。
Liu Ming sat in Nanjing immortal, people get off the car and then according to the home address waiting for the special bus in each district.
“雨花台区来接我的是非急救转运医疗车，会直接把人送到家门口，”刘明说，“在家门口等我的是社区工作人员、社区医生、社区民警，三个人，感觉很隆重。
"The people in Yuhuatai who will pick me up are non-first-aid transfer medical vehicles and will take people directly to my door," Liu said.
对我态度很好，只是为了接我一个人，‘全副武装’。
I'm being nice to you, just to pick me up, 'armed'.
”三位工作人员跟刘明交代了注意事项、测了体温，四个人建了微信群，要求刘明每天按时汇报情况。
"The three staff members told Liu Ming the matters needing attention, took temperature, four people built micro-groups, Liu Ming daily report on time.
“他们告诉我居家隔离14天法律依据是什么，协议（承诺）书上签字。
"They told me what the legal basis for the 14-day stay-at-home isolation was.
家门口装了摄像头，监督你有没有出门。
Camera's on your doorstep, watching to see if you're out.
给了我一个包，里面是有关隔离规定的解释，发了口罩、84消毒水、水银温度计，每天上午下午都要测。
I was given a bag with an explanation of the quarantine rules, a mask, disinfectant, and mercury thermometers, which were tested every morning and afternoon.
”刘明表示，检疫、回家和隔离一切都安排得很好。
"Quarantine, going home and quarantine are all well arranged," Liu said.
除了居家隔离也有别的选择，可以去酒店住，政府也会给安排，但是要自费。
In addition to residential isolation there are other options, can go to the hotel, the Government will arrange, but at their own expense.
“我家现在只我一个人。
"I am all alone in my family now.
因为我回来了，我妈就去跟爷爷奶奶住了。
Because I came back, my mother went to live with her grandparents.
如果她也在，就是两个人都要隔离。
If she's here, both of them have to be isolated.
”3月15日下午，伦敦空旷的Regents Park Station 拍摄：韦丽婷从英国到北京：不少国家的同学都走了“一位同学本想留在英国找工作，也纠结，如果回国就直飞，但直飞广州要19000元，最后还是留下了。
On the afternoon of March 15, Willem Ting traveled from Britain to Beijing: Students from many countries left. "A classmate who wanted to stay in the UK to look for a job also had trouble finding a job, but if he returned home it would cost 19,000 yuan to fly directly to Guangzhou.
”——刘慧妍，伦敦政治经济学院（LSE）研究生。
-- Huiyan Liu, graduate student at the London School of Economics and Economics.
预期行程：3月19日乘新加坡航空从伦敦经新加坡转机回北京。
Expected itinerary: From London via Singapore via Singapore to Beijing on March 19.
集中隔离14天。
Concentrated isolation for 14 days.
“疫情爆发前我本来也是打算3月底回来，在国内写论文同时实习。
"Before the outbreak, I was planning to come back by the end of March and write my thesis and practice at home.
不过最近接到了实习offer，再考虑到英国和欧洲这边的疫情发展趋势，我就把回国日期提前了。
However, I recently received an internship offer, and considering the trend in the UK and Europe, I would like to advance the date of my return.
”在伦敦政治经济学院攻读硕士的刘慧妍对界面新闻说。
"Yi, who is studying for a master's degree at the London School of Economics, told Interface News.
据刘慧妍介绍，英国一年制硕士有三个学期，第一学期从9月到12月，第二学期从1月到4月初，5月到8月是没有课的夏季学期，用来写论文。
According to Ms Lau, there are three semesters of one-year masters in Britain, the first from September to December, the second from January to early April and the fifth from May to August to write essays.
“我在3月11日左右买的伦敦-新加坡-北京的新航航班，票价大概人民币4600多元。
"The London-Singapore-Beijing SIA flight I bought around March 11 is priced at about 4600 yuan.
同一行程比我买得晚的同学有人花了6000多。
Some of my classmates who bought the same trip later spent more than 6000.
现在想买中转票估计都买不到了，直飞估计也不行，直飞大都是国航，而国航取消了很多航班。
I'm afraid I can't get a transfer ticket right now, not by direct flights, which are mostly Air China, which cancelled many flights.
”她说。
'she said.
决定回国后，刘慧妍先后加了三个微信群：一个LSE回北京的群，一个新加坡转机回北京群，还有一个同航班的群，群里有四五十人，大部分看上去是中国人。
After deciding to return to China, LiuHuiyan added three micro-groups: an LSE group returning to Beijing, a Singapore connecting flight back to the Beijing group, and a group of four or five people, most of whom looked Chinese.
“我打算飞机上全程戴口罩，还和别人拼购了护目镜，不过飞机上可能会换成眼罩。
"I'm going to wear a mask all the way on the plane and buy goggles with someone else, but maybe an eye mask will be on the plane.
”“买票的时候北京还没有入境人员集中隔离14天的政策，但有了这个政策大家也不会取消行程，”她说，事实上，“‘回北京群’里很多人本身都想申请集中隔离，因为居家隔离的话全家人都要隔离。
"Beijing didn't have a 14-day policy of concentrating immigrants at the time of buying tickets, but with that policy no one would cancel the trip," she said. "In fact, many people in the 'Back to Beijing Group' themselves want to apply for segregation because families are segregated.
”包括奥地利和法国同学在内，其他国家的同学也回家了。
Students from other countries, including Austria and France, also went home.
刘慧妍说，很多美国同学是赶在美国对英国旅行禁令生效前加急回国的。
Many American students hastened home before the US travel ban came into effect, she said.
刘慧妍同宿舍的两个中国同学打算留在英国，继续上网课写论文直到毕业。
Two Chinese students of Huiyan's dormitory intend to stay in Britain and continue to write essays online until they graduate.
其中一位本来也是想留在英国找工作，同时考虑到坐飞机或转机风险也不小。
One of them would have wanted to stay in the UK looking for a job, considering the risks of flying or connecting flights.
“同学之前也纠结，如果要回国就直飞，但直飞广州票价要19000元，最后还是决定留下了。
"Classmates also tangled before, if want to return to the country to fly directly, but direct flight to Guangzhou ticket to 19,000 yuan, finally decided to stay.
”刘慧妍的表姐在法国读书，也想回国，但航班在3月15日取消。
"Her cousin, who studies in France, also wanted to return home, but the flight was canceled on March 15.
“她本来试着买泰国转机的票，但泰国不给中国护照持有者办过境签，她想买的票又是必须入境取行李再出境，所以现在已经放弃了，做好了留在巴黎的准备。
"She was trying to buy tickets for the Thai connection, but Thailand didn't give the Chinese passport holder a transit visa, and the ticket she wanted had to enter the country to pick up her luggage before leaving the country, so she has given up and is ready to stay in Paris.
那边戴口罩的人也很少。
There are few people wearing masks over there.
”她说。
'she said.
近日网上流传消息称，飞往北京的国际航班将被分流到周边城市的机场，旅客在完成检疫后再飞北京。
International flights to Beijing will be diverted to airports in neighboring cities, according to online reports recently. Passengers will not fly to Beijing until they are quarantined.
天津机场工作人员对界面新闻确认，已接到通知，但尚未通知哪些航班将采取这种方式。
Tianjin airport staff confirmed to the interface news, has been informed, but has not yet informed which flights will take this approach.
刘慧妍3月18日表示，当时航班信息还没显示有变化。
On March 18, Ms Liu said flight information had not changed.
至于英国的疫情和学校的应对措施，她说，“学校在3月12日发通知要开始上网课，统一说法是3月23日开始，不过具体看每个学院安排，我们学院这周就开始。
As for the British epidemic and the school's response, she said, "the school issued a notice on March 12 to start online classes.
但校园没有关闭，宿舍、图书馆都没关门，3月13日去学校看到餐厅也没关。
But the campus was not closed, the dormitories and libraries were not closed, nor was the dining room closed when I went to school on March 13.
”“我们接收消息一般看BBC比较快，学校反应特别慢。
"We generally get the news that the BBC is faster and schools are particularly slow to respond.
比如一周多以前很多同学就发邮件问是不是改成网上授课，学校过了一周才回复，说一直在商讨。
For example, more than a week ago many students on the e-mail asked whether the change to online teaching, the school did not reply until a week, said that has been under discussion.
首相约翰逊的讲话之后学校也没说什么，都靠大家自己看新闻。
After Prime Minister Johnson's speech, the school said nothing and relied on everyone to watch the news.
”她说。
'she said.
两周前，刘慧妍在3月初就觉得英国疫情有些严重，从上周开始每天戴口罩。
Two weeks ago, LiuHuiyan felt a bit worse in early March and began wearing masks every day since last week.
“我在当地买了30个一次性医用口罩，花了人民币250多元。
"I bought 30 disposable medical masks locally and spent more than 250 yuan.
这边很多人说戴口罩主要是防止自己生病后传染给别人，但我看街上咳嗽打喷嚏的人也没戴，所以觉得不行，我还是得保护好自己。
A lot of people here say wearing masks is mainly to prevent them from infecting others when they get sick, but I don't see anyone on the street who coughs or sneezes, so I don't think so. I still have to protect myself.
”刘慧妍说，3月份之前大家对戴口罩有些担心，直到3月初还有新加坡人因为戴口罩在英国被打的事发生，但后来大家觉得这种情况是少数，问题不大。
"Before March, there was some concern about wearing masks, and Singaporeans were beaten in the UK wearing masks until early March, said Liu.
“有人如果要骂我的话，没事，我自己保护好自己就行”。
"If someone scolds me, it's okay. I just have to protect myself."
不过目前主要还是亚洲人戴，她说，偶尔能碰到一两个白人戴，但大部分不戴。
But it's mostly Asian, she said, occasionally meeting one or two whites, but mostly not wearing them.
除了当地人不戴的情况，口罩也很难买。
Masks are also difficult to buy, except when local people aren't wearing them.
“亚马逊买不到，eBay有但送货特别慢，很多质量也很差。
"Amazon can't buy it. There's eBay but delivery is particularly slow and a lot of quality is poor.
”刘慧妍说，此外，“卫生纸是真的买不到，特别夸张。
"Besides, toilet paper is really not available," said Liu Huiyan.
食物还好，但是中国超市的水饺和米之类的供货会很慢。
The food is fine, but Chinese supermarket dumplings and rice dumplings and other supplies will be slow.
”不少中国学生认为英国防控措施太松，“不靠谱”。
Many Chinese students believe the UK's control measures are too lax and "unreliable."
刘慧妍说，在欧洲其他国家疫情那么严重的时候，英国政府是这样的说辞、没有显得很紧张，那英国当地民众肯定更不紧张。
'At a time when the rest of Europe is so affected, the British government is not so nervous, 'said Ms. Liu.' The British people are certainly less nervous.
“本来就没人做防护，这样一说更没人关心了。
"There was no one there to protect themselves from, and no one cared about that.
”“我觉得英国学生心挺大的，听伦敦国王学院（KCL）的朋友说，他们系有两个英国学生在群里说，‘今天大家一起去上课吧，this will be fun（这肯定很有意思）’。
"I think the British students are very big-hearted," said a friend of King's College in London, who had two British students in the group saying, 'Let's go to class today, this is going to be fun.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国留学生“疫”中归国记：我们为什么回来。
Returning home from the "plague" of Chinese students: Why did we come back?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "中国留学生“疫”中归国记：我们为什么回来";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "直到登机，一些被迫回国的同学仍在犹豫是走是留。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Until boarding the plane, some of the students who were forced to return home were still hesitating whether to leave or stay.
落地后的检疫和隔离安排很细致，不少同学表示不想连累家人，即便没有强制政策，也会申请集中隔离。
Quarantine and quarantine arrangements after landing are very detailed, many students do not want to compromise their families, even if there is no mandatory policy, will apply for centralized isolation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
