伊朗疫情排查1400万人，两处什叶派圣陵破天荒关闭。
Iran has cleared 14 million people and closed two Shiite shrines for the first time.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：安晶“ 伊朗总统鲁哈尼说，虽然圣陵关闭，“我们的灵魂与圣人比任何时候都更接近”。
Interviewer: "Iranian President Hassan Rouhani says that although the shrine is closed," our souls are closer to saints than ever before. "
”随着伊朗新增新冠肺炎死亡病例连续三天过百，伊朗卫生部长纳马基表示，当局已经完成了对近1400万人的疫情排查。
With more than three hundred new deaths from pneumonia in Iran, Iranian Health Minister Manouchehr Namaki said authorities had completed an epidemic of nearly 14 million people.
为防止疫情恶化，司法部再度宣布释放8.5万名囚犯；什叶派圣城马什哈德和库姆则破天荒关闭了两处圣地，引发民众激烈抗议。
To prevent the outbreak from worsening, the Ministry of Justice again announced the release of 85,000 prisoners, while the Shiite holy cities of Mashhad and Qom closed two holy sites for the first time, sparking fierce protests.
与此同时，同为海湾国家的科威特和阿联酋向伊朗伸出援手，提供了防护物资和捐款。
At the same time, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, also Gulf States, have come to Iran's aid with protective materials and donations.
伊朗议员则呼吁就此次疫情中伊朗遭受的制裁将美国告上国际法庭。
Iranian lawmakers are calling for sanctions against Iran in the current outbreak to bring the United States to international courts.
据《伊朗头条》3月17日报道，伊朗卫生部通报，过去24小时内伊朗新增确诊病例1178例，累计16169例。
Iran's Ministry of Health has reported 1,178 new cases, or 16,169 cases, in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said.
新增死亡135例，累计988例，已有5389人治愈。
A total of 988 of 135 new deaths were recorded, and 5,389 cases were cured.
这也是伊朗连续三天出现死亡病例破百。
It is also the third day in a row that Iran has lost 100 per cent of its deaths.
确诊病例人数最多的依然是首都德黑兰，累计4047例；其次为与德黑兰相邻的旅游胜地马赞德兰，累计1433例。
The largest number of confirmed cases continued to be in Tehran, the capital, with a cumulative total of 4,047 cases, followed by Mazandran, a tourist resort bordering Tehran, with a cumulative total of 1,433 cases.
疫情爆发地库姆排名第四，累计1052例。
Qom, the epicenter of the outbreak, ranked fourth with 1,052 cases.
卫生部长纳马基宣布，截至目前，伊朗已经完成了对近1400万人的疫情排查，相当于人口的六分之一，部分出现症状的人员将接受隔离观察。
Health Minister Manouchehr Namaki announced that Iran has so far completed an epidemic of nearly 14 million people, equivalent to one-sixth of the population, and that some people with symptoms will be watched in isolation.
此前，卫生部副部长雷西称，当局在对1000万人进行排查后，发现有21万人出现至少一种疑似症状，其中3万人符合转入医疗点筛查的条件，这其中有1200人最终被转至医院就诊，900人接受住院治疗。
Earlier, Vice Health Minister Nancy Rethy said authorities had identified at least 210,000 people with at least one suspected symptom after conducting a screening of 10 million people, including 30,000 who met the criteria for referral to health-point screening, including 1,200 who were eventually referred to hospitals and 900 who were hospitalized.
为防止疫情进一步扩散，伊朗司法部于周二再度宣布释放包括政治犯在内的8.5万名囚犯。
To prevent the disease from spreading further, the Iranian Justice Ministry on Tuesday again announced the release of 85,000 prisoners, including political prisoners.
从本月起，伊朗已经多次宣布释放囚犯。
Since this month, Iran has repeatedly announced the release of prisoners.
本月早些时候，当伊朗宣布释放7万名囚犯后一天，联合国伊朗人权问题特别报告员雷曼（Javaid Rehman）建议伊朗暂时释放政治犯，以防止疫情在监狱内扩散。
Earlier this month, a day after Iran announced the release of 70,000 prisoners, the UN's Special Rapporteur on human rights in Iran, Javaid Rehman, recommended that Iran release political prisoners temporarily to prevent the disease from spreading within the prison.
雷曼透露，目前获释的人员为刑期在五年以下的轻犯，重犯依然在狱中服刑。
Lehman said those currently released were light offenders serving sentences of less than five years, with repeat offenders still serving prison sentences.
除释放囚犯，医务人员和当地政府已多次呼吁对库姆等重灾区实施封城，但遭到了拒绝。
In addition to the release of prisoners, medical staff and local authorities have repeatedly called for the closure of severely affected areas such as Qom, but have been rejected.
虽然没有封城，但圣城马什哈德却破天荒关闭了第八伊玛目阿里·里达的圣陵，库姆则关闭了阿里·里达之妹马苏玛的圣陵。
Although the city was not closed, the holy city of Mashhad broke through for the first time the holy shrine of Imam Ali Rida, while Qom closed the shrine of Ali Rida's sister, Masuma.
伊朗的什叶派为十二伊玛目派，由于葬有第八伊玛目和其胞妹，马什哈德和库姆是伊朗的两大圣城，伊朗最大的神学院也位于库姆。
Iran's Shias are twelve imams, and because of the burial of the eighth imam and his sister, Mashhad and Qom are the two holy cities in Iran, and the largest seminary in Iran is also located in Qom.
疫情爆发后，依然有众多朝圣者前往圣陵，还有人亲吻或舔圣地的门墙，以寻求对病毒免疫。
In the wake of the outbreak, pilgrims continued to descend to the shrines, and people kissed or licked the walls of holy places to seek immunity to the virus.
此前医务人员已经多次呼吁关闭圣陵，是否关闭圣陵还引发了宗教学者之间的大辩论。
Medical staff have repeatedly called for the closure of the shrine, which has also sparked a debate among religious scholars.
本周一，伊朗国家电视台宣布两座圣陵暂时关闭；当天晚上，强硬派人士和部分宗教人士聚集在圣陵前抗议政府的决定。
On Monday, Iranian state television announced the temporary closure of two shrines, as hardliners and some religious figures gathered in front of the shrine to protest the government's decision.
最终两名抗议者被警方逮捕。
The two protesters were eventually arrested by the police.
为安抚朝圣者，伊朗总统鲁哈尼周二专门对此发表讲话，表示虽然圣陵关闭，“我们的灵魂与圣人比任何时候都更接近”。
Speaking specifically to appease pilgrims, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said Tuesday that despite the shrine's closure, "our souls are closer to saints than ever before."
伊朗为政教合一国家。
Iran is a secular State.
除了关闭宗教场所，伊朗卫生部官员已多次呼吁民众留在家中，不要随意出门，警告“现在为准备新年出门采购相当于自杀”。
In addition to shutting down places of worship, Iranian Health Ministry officials have repeatedly called on people to stay at home and not to go out, warning that "going shopping now for the New Year is tantamount to suicide."
但据路透社报道，很多民众依然无视警告，各地的商场和餐馆依然照常营业。
But many people continued to ignore warnings that shopping malls and restaurants remained open, Reuters reported.
3月20日为波斯新年，当局已经向伊朗31个省的大城市派出筛查小组，对离开各市的民众进行体温检测。
On March 20, the Persian New Year, authorities have sent screening teams to major cities in 31 Iranian provinces to test the body temperature of people leaving the city.
出现发烧症状的民众将被送往隔离点。
People with fever symptoms will be sent to quarantine sites.
为协助伊朗控制疫情，科威特于周二宣布向伊朗捐赠1000万美元；政治敌手阿联酋也宣布向伊朗捐赠32吨的医疗防护物资。
To help Iran contain the outbreak, Kuwait on Tuesday announced a donation of $10 million to Iran, while political rival the United Arab Emirates announced a 32-ton donation of medical defense materials to Iran.
同一天，伊朗从中国采购的2000万个医用口罩、300万个N95口罩、一万个体温计和200万件病号服已经抵达伊朗。
On the same day, 20 million medical masks, 3 million N95 masks, 10,000 thermometers and 2 million hospital uniforms procured from China arrived in Iran.
此前，中国向伊朗免费赠送了两万套检测试剂盒。
Earlier, China gave Iran 20, 000 test kits free of charge.
英国、德国和法国也通过世卫组织和联合国为伊朗捐赠了防护物资。
The United Kingdom, Germany and France also donated protective materials for Iran through WHO and the United Nations.
伊朗外长扎里夫周一与英国外交大臣拉布通话时还呼吁英国反抗美国制裁。
Iran's Foreign Minister Nawaz Zarif also called on the U.K. to resist U. S. sanctions during a conversation Monday with British Foreign Secretary Robert Labrab.
伊朗议员拜戈拉（Shahbaz Hassapour Biglari）则呼吁伊朗就制裁问题将美国告上国际法庭，指责美国阻碍医疗物资运往伊朗的行为构成“战争罪和反人道罪”。
Shahbaz Hassapour Biglari, an Iranian lawmaker, has called on Iran to take the United States to international courts on sanctions, accusing it of obstructing medical supplies to Iran as a "war crime and a crime against humanity."
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗疫情排查1400万人，两处什叶派圣陵破天荒关闭。
Iran has cleared 14 million people and closed two Shiite shrines for the first time.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗疫情排查1400万人，两处什叶派圣陵破天荒关闭";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Iran's epidemic accounted for 14 million; and its historic closure of two Shiite shrines;;;
var msg_desc = "伊朗总统鲁哈尼说，虽然圣陵关闭，“我们的灵魂与圣人比任何时候都更接近”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iranian President Rowhani says that, although the shrine is closed, "our souls are closer to saints than ever before."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
