荷兰团队称首度发现全人源单克隆抗体，为防治新冠提供新可能。
The Dutch team said the first human-origin monoclonal antibody was found, offering new possibilities for a new crown.
王磬。
Chime with Wang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：王磬“ 抗体能够抑制病毒与细胞的相互作用，从而阻断感染。
"Antibodies can inhibit the interaction of viruses with cells, thus blocking infection," he said.
”一个由10位科学家组成的荷兰研究团队3月11日在生物学论文预印本平台BioRxiv发表文章称，他们刚刚获得了一株能够中和新型冠状病毒（SARS-CoV-2）的全人源单克隆抗体。
A team of 10 scientists published on March 11 on BioRxiv, a pre-printed platform for biological papers, that they had just acquired an allround monoclonal antibody capable of neutralizing the new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2).
这是目前已知的首个可以阻断冠状病毒感染的抗体，它的问世或将为预防和治疗新冠肺炎提供新的可能。
This is the first known antibody to block coronavirus infection and its appearance may provide new possibilities for the prevention and treatment of coronavirus infection.
“新冠病毒若需建立有效感染，必须使用其一种称为刺突蛋白的蛋白跟人体细胞的受体结合。
"If the new crown virus is to establish an effective infection, it must bind to receptors in human cells using one of its proteins called spines.
单克隆抗体主要是针对刺突蛋白，来抑制病毒与细胞的相互作用。
Monoclonal antibodies are mainly directed at the spinous process protein to inhibit the interaction between the virus and cells.
”论文第一作者、中国籍科学家李文涛博士告诉界面新闻。
The paper's lead author, Chinese scientist Dr Li Wentao, told Interface News.
李文涛现在是荷兰乌特勒支大学兽医学院生物分子健康科学系病毒分部的研究人员。
Li Wentao is now a researcher at the Department of Biological Molecular Health Sciences at the Veterinary Faculty of Utrecht University in the Netherlands.
研究团队里的10名科学家均来自鹿特丹伊拉斯莫斯医学中心及乌特勒支大学。
All 10 scientists on the team came from the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam and Utrecht University.
除了李文涛外，团队里还有一位中国籍科学家王春燕。
In addition to Li Wentao, the team also has a Chinese scientist Wang Chunyan.
该研究的负责人之一为荷兰籍科学家柏瑞德·扬·博斯（Berend-Jan Bosch）。
One of the heads of the study was Dutch scientist Berend Jan Bosch.
李文涛长期关注冠状病毒治疗性抗体的开发。
Li Wentao has long been concerned about the development of coronavirus therapeutic antibodies.
他对界面新闻表示，“抗体除了可应用于感染病人的治疗之外，还可用于高感染风险人群，如医疗工作者，用于预防病毒感染。
"Antibodies can be used to prevent viral infections in high-risk populations, such as health workers, in addition to treatments for infected patients," he told Interface News.
如果能顺利进入临床，能有效地提升重症和危重症的救治水平，降低病亡率。
If can enter the clinic smoothly, can effectively elevate the serious and the critical medical treatment level, reduces the disease mortality rate.
”相比之下，“疫苗主要给健康人免疫起预防作用，但疫苗的研发周期长，起效相对较慢。
By contrast, "vaccines primarily immunize healthy people, but their development cycle is long and relatively slow."
瑞德西韦等化学药物主要用于感染病人的治疗，通过抑制病毒的复制，起到抗病毒效果。
Rhetsevir and other chemicals are mainly used in the treatment of infected patients, by inhibiting replication of the virus, anti-viral effect.
”目前中国和美国已经进入了疫苗临床试验阶段，整个过程需要十多个月的时间。
China and the US are now entering clinical trials of vaccines, a process that will take more than a decade.
据悉，这篇论文现在已经投稿至《自然》（Nature）杂志，同行评议结果有望在接下来一月之内知晓。
The paper is now in the journal Nature, and peer review results are expected in the next month.
如通过了同行评议，有希望较快进入临床试验的进程。
If passed the peer review, it is hoped that the process of clinical trials will proceed relatively quickly.
李文涛介绍，他所在的实验室开展冠状病毒相关研究有三十多年了，累积了很多材料。
Li Wentao said his laboratory has been conducting research on coronavirus for more than 30 years and has accumulated a lot of materials.
他们7年前就开始建立一个特殊的技术平台，以便在有新病毒出现时能够迅速反应。
They started building a special technology platform seven years ago to be able to react quickly when a new virus comes along.
2年前实验室就已经拿到了这个抗体。
The antibody was in the lab two years ago.
“新冠病毒爆发以后，团队基于已有的技术平台，迅速建立了跟新冠病毒研究相关的平台，测试了该抗体对新冠病毒的中和能力，这些都发生在最近2个月。
"After the outbreak of the new crown virus, the team quickly established a platform related to research on the new crown virus and tested the antibody's neutralization of the new crown virus, all in the last two months, based on existing technological platforms.
”李文涛说。
"said Li Wentao.
该研究的另一位负责人、鹿特丹伊拉斯莫斯医学中心的细胞生物学教授格罗斯维德（Frank Grosveld）在接受大学杂志《Erasmus Magazine》的采访时表示，几年之前，他们就已经开展过“人畜共通传染病预防计划”（简称ZAPI，Zoonoses Anticipation and Preparedness Initiative），其目的是开发出针对MERS，SARS-CoV和另一种人冠状病毒HcoV-OC43的抗体。
Frank Grosveld, a professor of cell biology at the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, who led the study, told the university journal Erasmus Magazine several years ago that they had been working on the ZAPI, Zoonoes Anti-Communicable Initiative to develop antibodies against MERS, SARS-CoV, and another human coronavirus, HcoV-OC43.
当时他们就发现与这三种不同病毒交叉反应并能够阻止病毒感染的抗体。
At the time, they found antibodies that interacted with the three different viruses and were able to stop the infection.
本轮疫情爆发之后，他们利用当时保留下来的一些未经测试的抗体样本，选择那些只对SARS-CoV的突变有反应的抗体，测试它们是否也对SARS-CoV-2有反应。
After the outbreak, they selected antibodies that responded only to the SARS-CoV mutations, using samples of untested antibodies that were retained at the time, and tested whether they also responded to SARS-CoV-2.
最后，终于发现了这个对SARS-CoV-2有阻断作用的抗体。
Eventually, the antibody, which blocked SARS-CoV-2, was found.
格罗斯维德还提到这个抗体的另一种用途：可以用来建立新冠病毒肺炎的诊断测试。
Grosvede also points to another use of the antibody: it could be used to establish a diagnostic test for new crown virus pneumonia.
这样可以让人们都在家里进行测试，很容易就可以知道自己是否感染了病毒。
This allows people to test at home and make it easy to know if they are infected with the virus.
如能顺利推进，这也将极大提高欧洲国家的测试能力。
If successfully advanced, it would also greatly improve the testing capabilities of European countries.
格罗斯维德表示他们正在跟一家制药公司进行商讨，该公司有能力大规模地生产药用抗体。
Grosvede says it is in talks with a pharmaceutical company that has the ability to produce drug antibodies on a large scale.
不过他也强调，在进入市场之前，必须对抗体进行广泛的毒理学测试，他们已经开始了这个进程。
But he also stressed the need for extensive toxicological testing of antibodies before entering the market, a process they have begun.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
荷兰团队称首度发现全人源单克隆抗体，为防治新冠提供新可能。
The Dutch team said the first human-origin monoclonal antibody was found, offering new possibilities for a new crown.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "荷兰团队称首度发现全人源单克隆抗体，为防治新冠提供新可能";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "抗体能够抑制病毒与细胞的相互作用，从而阻断感染。
var msg _ desc = & quot; antibodies can block infection by inhibiting viral interactions with cells.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
