逾90座工厂停产，欧洲汽车制造商因疫情遭受重创。
European carmakers have been hit hard by the shutdown of more than 90 factories.
李亦萌。
Meng Li.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：李亦萌“ 截至目前，主流汽车制造商在欧洲的工厂关停率或接近半数。
Source: Visual China Journalist: Li Yixun "Up to now, the shutdown rate of mainstream car manufacturers in Europe has been close to half.
供应链所经受的考验令汽车制造商对全年收益的预期大幅降低，同时令当地投资者的信心被消磨。
The tests along the supply chain have sharply lowered automakers' expectations of full-year earnings while eroding confidence among local investors.
”新冠肺炎疫情正在欧洲肆虐。
The new crown pneumonia epidemic is raging in Europe.
世界卫生组织日前将欧洲定性为新冠病毒大流行的“灾情中心”，包括意大利、法国、英国、德国、西班牙在内的多个欧洲国家均已上调防疫级别，并对人员流动采取限制措施。
The World Health Organization (WHO) has labeled Europe the "epicentre" of the New Crown Virus pandemic, with several European countries, including Italy, France, the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain, raising the level of immunization and imposing restrictions on the movement of people.
此类防疫行动对欧洲汽车制造业造成了巨大影响。
Such vaccination campaigns have had a huge impact on Europe's automobile industry.
自本周起，该地区的汽车生产线陆续陷入静默，逾90座工厂将被关闭。
Since this week, the region's car production lines have been silent and more than 90 factories will be closed.
沃尔沃汽车周二晚间（3月17日）宣布，其位于比利时的根特工厂自当天下午起进入停工状态。
Volvo said late Tuesday that its Ghent plant in Belgium had been out of work since the afternoon.
沃尔沃方面称，这一举动是为了减缓新冠肺炎疫情在其员工间传播。
Volvo said the move was intended to slow the spread of the outbreak among its employees.
比利时政府近期针对疫情采取了一系列封闭措施，沃尔沃根特工厂因此出现人员短缺。
The Belgian government recently imposed a series of closures in response to the outbreak, resulting in a shortage of workers at the Volvogent plant.
根特工厂是沃尔沃汽车设立于欧洲的4座生产设施之一，约有员工5500人，主要负责生产XC40、V60等车型，同时也兼具为该品牌旗下首款纯电动车——XC40 Recharge供应电池组的职责。
The Ghent plant, one of Volvo's four production facilities in Europe, employs about 5,500 people and is primarily responsible for producing XC40 and V60 models, as well as supplying batteries for the brand's first pure electric vehicle, the XC40 Recharge.
沃尔沃汽车未就根特工厂的复工计划给出时间表，但该公司的一名内部人士告诉界面新闻，原定于今年9月的XC40 Recharge海外上市时间暂不受疫情停工影响。
Volvo did not give a timetable for the resumption of work at the Ghent plant, but an insider at the company told Interface News that the overseas launch of the XC40 Recharge, originally scheduled for September, would not be affected by the shutdown.
截至目前，沃尔沃在瑞典哥德堡附近的托斯兰达整车装配厂、舍夫德动力总成工厂以及乌洛夫斯特伦车身工厂仍保持正常生产状态。
Volvo has so far remained in normal operation at the Tórranda Truck Assembly Plant near Gothenburg, Sweden, the Shaft Power Plant and the Urovström Body Factory.
在本轮主流汽车制造商在欧洲所采取的停工停产行动中，沃尔沃汽车是一个最新案例。
Volvo is the latest in a series of shutdowns by mainstream carmakers in Europe.
周二早些时候，大众汽车集团管理董事会主席迪斯通过在线形式向世界宣布，该集团位于欧洲的多家工厂将陆续暂停生产。
Earlier Tuesday, Volkswagen's managing board chairman, Edith Dis, told the world online that the group's factories in Europe would be suspended.
“面对显著下降的销售情况，供应链的不确定性，我们工厂有中断生产的可能性。
"In the face of significantly reduced sales, uncertainty in the supply chain, our factory has the possibility of disruption of production.
”迪斯说。
"said Disney.
目前，该集团在西班牙、葡萄牙的工厂已经暂停生产。
The group's factories in Spain and Portugal have suspended production.
本周末之前，将暂停西班牙、葡萄牙、斯洛伐克和意大利的所有生产线。
All production lines in Spain, Portugal, Slovakia and Italy will be suspended by the end of this week.
自下周一起，德国工厂也将开始停工2-3周。
The German plant will also be shut down for two to three weeks starting next week.
大众汽车集团在欧洲的生产设施数量高达43个，覆盖17个国家。
Volkswagen has 43 production facilities in Europe, covering 17 countries.
按国别计算，本轮暂时关闭的工厂数量最高可达24座，停工比例接近56%。
On a country-by-country basis, the number of plants temporarily closed during the current round can be as high as 24, with shutdowns approaching 56 per cent.
同为德国汽车制造商的戴姆勒集团也在同一天做出了类似决定。
Daimler, also a German carmaker, made a similar decision on the same day.
该集团周二决定暂停其在欧洲的“大部分”生产和部分行政部门的工作，本次停产初期计划为期两周，涵盖“戴姆勒在欧洲的轿车、货车以及商用车工厂”，停产将于本周开始。
The group decided Tuesday to suspend most of its European production and parts of its administration for an initial period of two weeks, covering "Daimler's cars, trucks and commercial vehicles plants in Europe," which will start this week.
除了停产之外，戴姆勒还将对其全球供应链进行评估，当前戴姆勒的供应链无法全力维持。
In addition to the shutdown, Daimler will assess its global supply chain, which is currently not fully sustainable.
停工时间是否延长，需要取决于事态的发展情况。
Whether the downtime is extended or not will depend on the course of events.
戴姆勒方面未透露具体的受影响工厂数量，但从其新闻稿中的描述来看，工厂停工率至少在50%以上。
Daimler did not disclose the number of factories affected, but its press release described the plant shutdown rate as at least 50%.
按照该集团在官方网站上披露的信息，其在欧洲的生产设施总数为16处，其中包括外包组装厂和动力总成工厂。
According to information disclosed by the Group on its official website, the total number of production facilities in Europe is 16, including outsourced assembly plants and power assembly plants.
同为“德系三强”之一的宝马集团3月18日宣布，将自本周末起关闭在其欧洲及南非的工厂，直至4月19日。
BMW, one of the top three German companies, said Wednesday it would close its factories in Europe and South Africa from the end of the week until April 19.
该制造商在欧洲共有生产设施12处。
The manufacturer has 12 production facilities in Europe.
两家法国汽车制造商的反应则更为迅速。
Two French carmakers reacted more quickly.
标致、雪铁龙等品牌的母公司——PSA集团周一（3月16日）宣布，将临时关闭其在欧洲的15家工厂直至3月27日，涉及法国、西班牙、德国、英国、葡萄牙、波兰、斯洛伐克等多个国家。
PSA, the parent of brands such as Peugeot and Citroen, announced Monday that it would temporarily close 15 of its factories in Europe until March 27, covering France, Spain, Germany, the United Kingdom, Portugal, Poland and Slovakia.
PSA方面在一份声明中称，做出上述决定是因为“最近几天在某些生产基地附近，病情严重的新型冠状病毒病例加速出现，主要供应商供应中断以及汽车市场突然下滑”。
The PSA said in a statement that the decision was made "in recent days in the vicinity of certain production bases, the emergence of serious new coronavirus cases accelerated, the supply of major suppliers was disrupted and the auto market suddenly dropped."
该集团官方网站信息显示，PSA方面在欧洲（含俄罗斯）共有生产设施32处，本次工厂停工率为46.9%。
According to the Group's official website, PSA has 32 production facilities in Europe (including Russia), with a plant shutdown rate of 46.9 per cent.
紧随PSA集团之后，雷诺汽车集团周二（3月17日）宣布，考虑到新冠肺炎疫情在当地的蔓延之势，集团将暂时关闭其在法国的12家工厂，直至有进一步消息。
Following the PSA group, Renault Motor Corp. said Tuesday it would temporarily close 12 of its factories in France until further news of the outbreak spread there.
雷诺汽车通过官方渠道表示，其法国工厂的所有生产活动均将停止，这一举动是为了保护员工的安全。
Renault said through official channels that all production at its French plant would cease, in a move to protect its employees.
受本次停工影响的工人数量达到1.8万人。
The number of workers affected by the stoppage reached 18,000.
此外，雷诺周一（3月16日）还因为零部件供应短缺，暂停了西班牙巴拉多利德和巴伦西亚工厂的生产工作。
Also Monday, Renault suspended production at its Baladolid and Valencia plants because of a shortage of spare parts supplies.
如将达西亚及AvtoVAZ等品牌计算在内，雷诺在欧洲（含俄罗斯）共有生产设施28座。
Including brands such as Dacia and AvtoVAZ, Renault has 28 production facilities in Europe, including Russia.
本次停工的工厂总数达到14座，停工率为50%。
A total of 14 factories were shut down, with a shutdown rate of 50 per cent.
在欧洲疫情最严重的意大利，菲亚特克莱斯勒汽车集团（FCA）周一宣布，其意大利子公司以及玛莎拉蒂在欧洲的主要工厂都将暂停生产，直至3月27日。
In Italy, the worst-affected region in Europe, Fiat Chrysler announced on Monday that its Italian subsidiary and Maserati's main European plants would suspend production until March 27.
上述决定同样是因为市场需求出现下滑而做出。
The decision was also prompted by a downturn in market demand.
FCA集团将关闭在意大利的6座工厂以及塞尔维亚克拉古耶瓦茨工厂、波兰蒂黑工厂。
The FCA Group will close six plants in Italy, as well as the Kragujevac plant in Serbia and the black factory in Poland.
FCA集团官方网站数据显示，这家汽车制造商在全球共运营着超过100处生产设施，其中包括欧洲的23处设施。
The automaker operates more than 100 production facilities worldwide, including 23 in Europe, according to the FCA Group's official website.
本次FCA集团的工厂停工率为34.8%。
The current FCA Group plant shutdown rate was 34.8 per cent.
自2016年1月起脱离FCA集团的意大利超跑制造商法拉利也于14日宣布，该公司位于意大利的马拉内洛和蒙德纳两家工厂将在3月27日之前保持关闭。
Ferrari, the Italian runner who left the FCA group in January 2016, also announced on the 14th that its Maranello and Mondena plants in Italy would remain closed until March 27.
由于法拉利仅在意大利生产，因此该制造商的工厂停工率也在本次欧洲汽车制造商停工潮中达到最高的100%。
Since Ferrari is made only in Italy, the manufacturer's shutdown rate reached its highest level of 100% in this European auto maker shutdown.
在欧洲，受疫情快速传播影响的也并非只有本土汽车制造商，诸多在该地区拥有产能部署的亚洲和美国汽车制造商也被卷入其中。
In Europe, the rapid spread of the epidemic is not limited to local carmakers, who are also involved in many Asian and US carmakers with capabilities in the region.
日产汽车便是其中一例。
Nissan cars are one example.
这家日本汽车制造商位于西班牙的两家工厂13日宣布停产。
The Japanese carmaker's two factories in Spain announced the shutdown on the 13th.
该公司一位发言人表示，本次停工将至少持续到3月16日。
A company spokesman said the shutdown would continue at least until March 16.
日产西班牙工厂拥有员工约3000人，这两座工厂负责电动货车和皮卡车型的生产。
Nissan's Spanish plant employs about 3,000 people, and both plants produce electric vans and pickup trucks.
3月18日，日产汽车追加声明称，通过评估英国当前疫情所对供应链带来的影响和市场需求，决定暂时关闭日产汽车位于英国桑德兰的工厂。
Nissan Motor Co. 's additional statement on March 18 said it had decided to temporarily close Nissan's plant in Sunderland by assessing the impact of the current UK epidemic on the supply chain and market demand.
在欧洲，日产汽车共有4座生产设施（含俄罗斯），本次停工比例达到75%。
In Europe, Nissan has four production facilities, including Russia, and the shutdown rate this time reached 75 per cent.
日产汽车的本国竞争对手——丰田汽车宣布将从3月18日起，关闭位于法国和葡萄牙的两家工厂。
Toyota, Nissan's domestic rival, announced it would close two factories in France and Portugal from March 18.
同时，其欧洲总部将开始远程办公。
Meanwhile, its European headquarters will begin telecommuting.
丰田方面同时表示，其在英国和捷克的另外两家工厂暂时不受影响。
Toyota also said its two other factories in the UK and the Czech Republic remained unaffected.
丰田官网显示，这家日本汽车制造商在欧洲共有6座整车工厂（含土耳其及俄罗斯）以及两座动力总成工厂。
The Japanese carmaker has six full-vehicle plants in Europe, including Turkey and Russia, as well as two power assembly plants, Toyota said.
丰田汽车本次在欧洲的工厂停工率为25%。
Toyota's plant shutdown rate in Europe this time was 25%.
美国汽车制造商福特周二（3月17日）宣布，将暂停德国科隆及萨尔路易工厂的生产工作，位于罗马尼亚的克拉约瓦工厂也将暂时关闭。
Ford, the US carmaker, announced on Tuesday that it would suspend production at its Cologne and Sallouis plants, as well as its Krajova plant in Romania.
上述三家工厂将自本周四（3月19日）起停产，工厂内部仅保留类似维护及安保工作。
All three plants will be shut down from Thursday, March 19, and only similar maintenance and security work will remain in the plant.
福特科隆工厂及萨尔路易工厂分别为欧洲市场供应嘉年华和福克斯车型。
The Ford Cologne and Sallouis plants supply Fiesta and Fox models for the European market, respectively.
尽管上述两款车型在福特的本土市场——美国已被停产，但在欧洲市场上，它们依然是福特汽车在当地最畅销的产品。
Although the US, Ford's home market, has shut down both models, they remain Ford's best-selling local product in the European market.
福特汽车此前已于16日关闭了位于西班牙巴伦西亚的另外一家整车组装厂，后者负责生产翼虎车型。
Ford had previously closed another car assembly plant in Valencia, Spain, on the 16th, the latter responsible for the production of winged tigers.
上周末，该工厂的3名工人在新冠肺炎病毒检测中结果呈阳性。
Last weekend, three workers at the factory tested positive for the new crown pneumonia virus.
福特汽车欧洲总裁斯图尔特·罗利表示，该制造商暂时关闭工厂是因为供应链因疫情而出现了一些问题。
Ford Motor's European president, Stuart Rowley, said the manufacturer had temporarily closed the plant because of supply chain problems caused by the outbreak.
此外，对于员工的安全也是其主要考虑因素之一。
In addition, the safety of staff is one of its main considerations.
福特方面称，公司或根据世界卫生组织对欧洲疫情发展的报告采取进一步措施，不排除关闭更多工厂的可能性。
Ford said the company or the World Health Organization report on the development of the European epidemic to take further measures, not excluding the possibility of closing more factories.
福特汽车官方网站的运营地图显示，这家美国汽车制造商在欧洲共有13处生产设施，目前的停工率为30.8%。
The US carmaker has 13 manufacturing facilities in Europe, with a 30.8 per cent shutdown, according to a map of Ford Motor's official website.
而在英国，尽管疫情发展同样迅速，但由于该国采取旨在延缓高峰而非强力控制的“群体免疫”应对措施，因此包括汽车制造业在内的英国各行业并未经历明显的停工停业过程。
And, in the United Kingdom, despite the equally rapid spread of the epidemic, British industries, including the automotive industry, have not experienced a significant shutdown as a result of the country's "herd immunization" response aimed at slowing the peak rather than imposing controls.
捷豹路虎、本田、丰田和福特等汽车制造商在当地的工厂仍在正常运转。
Carmakers such as Jaguar Land Rover, Honda, Toyota and Ford are still operating their local factories.
此外，捷豹路虎在欧洲的5处生产设施也均未停工。
In addition, none of the five Jaguar Land Rover production facilities in Europe has been shut down.
经粗略估算，本次主流汽车制造商暂停生产的欧洲工厂数量或达到93座。
A rough estimate puts the number of plants in Europe on hold at 93 this time by mainstream carmakers.
另一方面，计入捷豹路虎，主流汽车制造商在该地区的生产设施数量达到190座，总体停工率或超过48%。
On the other hand, including Jaguar Land Rover, mainstream car manufacturers have 190 production facilities in the region, with an overall shutdown rate of 48 per cent or more.
如将俄罗斯排除在外，这一比例则更高。
If Russia is excluded, the proportion is even higher.
从各大汽车制造商停工停产行动的表述来看，除对于员工健康问题的关切外，供应链所面临的断裂风险正成为其欧洲业务的最大风险。
The disruption risks facing the supply chain, in addition to health concerns for employees, are becoming the biggest risk to its European operations, as expressed by the shutdown operations of major car manufacturers.
例如，法国轮胎供应商米其林将周三（3月18日）起，关闭了在意大利、西班牙和法国的工厂，停摆期“至少将维持一周”。
Michelin, a French tyre supplier, for example, will shut down its factories in Italy, Spain and France on Wednesday, "for at least a week."
大众汽车方面表示，“事情正变得越来越复杂，事态也在快速发生变化。
"Things are getting more complicated and things are changing fast," Volkswagen said.
”该集团称其在意大利及西班牙拥有产能部署的欧洲供应商数量要远远大于其中国供应商。
The group says it has far more European suppliers with capacity in Italy and Spain than it does in China.
除对产品制造产生直接影响外，疫情正在降低汽车制造商对全年收益的预期。
In addition to a direct impact on product manufacturing, the epidemic is lowering automakers' expectations of full-year earnings.
宝马集团周三在公布停工计划时表示，受新冠肺炎疫情影响，2020年其税前利润和新车交付量或将出现较大滑坡。
In a planned shutdown Wednesday, BMW said its pre-tax profits and new-car deliveries are likely to decline significantly in 2020 due to the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
法国特鲁瓦工程技术大学（UTT）独立汽车分析师刘锐表示，在未来6-9个月内，新冠肺炎疫情将对欧洲汽车市场持续造成影响，即便在疫情消除后，相关影响也将留有残余。
Liu Rui, an independent auto analyst at the University of Engineering and Technology (UTT) in France, says the new crown pneumonia epidemic will continue to affect the European car market in the next six to nine months, with residual effects even after the epidemic is over.
“考虑到欧洲各国目前刚进入紧急状态，开始对人员流动进行限制，参考中国的情况，这一阶段至少将持续3个月。
"Given that European countries are just entering a state of emergency, restrictions on the movement of people have been introduced, and taking into account the situation in China, this phase will last at least three months.
”他说，“鉴于部分欧洲南部国家的经济环境和医疗状况，疫情对当地的影响时间将更长，而那里又是汽车制造商在欧洲的重要产能聚集地之一。
"Given the economic environment and medical conditions in parts of southern Europe, the epidemic will continue to have an impact on the region, which is one of the key capacity centres for carmakers in Europe," he said.
”大众汽车集团管理董事会主席迪斯也在17日的线上财报发布会上表达了类似的观点。
Volkswagen's managing board chairman, Edith Dis, also expressed a similar view at an online earnings conference on the 17th.
“中国（对疫情）的对策非常果断，通过一些特殊安全措施，中国确保了供应链的运作。
"China's response [to the epidemic] has been decisive, with some special security measures to ensure that the supply chain works."
此类处理措施非常有效，因此汽车制造行业恢复的速度很快。
Such treatment has been effective, and the auto manufacturing industry is recovering rapidly.
”他说，“如果欧洲能够像中国迅速恢复，那么市场的快速的复苏是可以预期的，但疫情的影响将在欧洲持续多久目前仍不可知。
"If Europe recovers as quickly as China can expect a rapid recovery, it is not clear how long the effects of the epidemic will last in Europe," he said.
”“随着工厂关闭，整个欧洲的汽车库存将受到重创。
"As factories close, car inventories across Europe will be hit hard."
未来几周内，供需都将受到遭受打击。
Demand and supply will suffer in the coming weeks.
”Kepler Cheuvreux公司分析师Thomas Besson说。
"says Thomas Besson, analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux.
Jefferies投资银行分析师则认为，欧洲汽车市场的情况“将进一步恶化”。
Analysts at the investment bank Jefferies said conditions in the European car market would "deteriorate further."
汽车制造商眼下在欧洲所经历的危机已在资本市场激起涟漪。
The crisis automakers are experiencing in Europe is already causing ripples in capital markets.
公众对疫情的担忧令雷诺汽车的股价周一下挫了20%， 而PSA集团的股价则下跌了16%。
Public concern about the outbreak sent Renault shares down 20% on Monday, while PSA shares fell 16%.
德国汽车制造商正经受同样的考验。
German carmakers are being tested in the same way.
截至目前，戴姆勒、宝马和大众汽车的股价分别下跌了11%、12%和13%。
Shares in Daimler, BMW and Volkswagen have fallen 11 per cent, 12 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逾90座工厂停产，欧洲汽车制造商因疫情遭受重创。
European carmakers have been hit hard by the shutdown of more than 90 factories.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "汽车";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "逾90座工厂停产，欧洲汽车制造商因疫情遭受重创";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "截至目前，主流汽车制造商在欧洲的工厂关停率或接近半数。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; mainstream automakers have shut down or nearly half of their factories in Europe so far.
供应链所经受的考验令汽车制造商对全年收益的预期大幅降低，同时令当地投资者的信心被消磨。
The tests along the supply chain have sharply lowered automakers' expectations of full-year earnings while eroding confidence among local investors.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
