美国口罩有价无市，不少华人开始微商买口罩。
Mell Mill Mell City, many Chinese began to micro-business to buy masks.
刘雨静。
Liu Yujing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 |刘雨静编辑 |牙韩翔“ 由于口罩紧缺，微商和微信群卖口罩开始在美国华人中流行起来，各色微信群成了人们互通有无的渠道。
"Because of the shortage of face masks, microbusiness and microphones have become popular among Chinese Americans, with small letters becoming a channel for exchange of information.
”美国新冠肺炎疫情正开始全面扩散，卫生用品在美国也出现有价无市的情况。
The outbreak of pneumonia in the US is beginning to spread across the board, and health supplies in the United States have a price without a price.
早前有人在社交媒体发文称，美国口罩充足，沃尔玛售卖2.97美元20片的口罩。
Wal-Mart has sold $2.97, 20-piece masks, a social-media post said earlier.
但现实或许并非如此。
But that may not be the case.
网络上流传的图片显示美国沃尔玛超市的口罩充足。
Images circulating online show Wal-Mart stores in the United States running out of masks.
美国亚特兰大博士在读的张亮对界面新闻说，沃尔玛的这款低价口罩，2个月前他已经在官网看到过开始售卖的消息，但他每次查询该口罩，线上一直显示缺货（out of stock），线下也无货。
Dr. Zhang Liang, who is in Atlanta, told the Interface News that Wal-Mart's low-cost mask, which he had seen on the official website two months ago, had always been displayed as "out of stock" online and out of stock.
“看到这个口罩价格图好几次了，但我也不敢去Walmart看有没有货，”洛杉矶居民林肖丹对界面新闻说，“我所知道的口罩价格比这高很多，亚马逊上也都是第三方卖家在售卖，3M的8511口罩有时要卖到24.95美金一个。
"I've seen this mask priced several times, but I'm not going to Walmart to see if it's available," Lynn Shodan, a Los Angeles resident, told Interview News. "I know masks are much more expensive, third-party sellers on Amazon are selling them, and 3M 8511 masks sometimes cost $24.95.
”多个在美国加州、纽约等地居住的华人对界面新闻表示，附近的沃尔玛、Target、Home Depo和CVS等连锁零售商中，口罩早已断货，上一次买到口罩在是1月份。
Several Chinese living in California, New York and elsewhere told the Interface News that the masks had long been out of stock at nearby Wal-Mart, Target, Home Dep and CVS chains, the last time a mask was bought in January.
而卫生纸、卫生巾和消毒洗手液等产品货架也常被抢购一空。
Products such as toilet paper, sanitary towels and disinfectant hand sanitizers are often snapped up.
美国洛杉矶橙县一家Target超市近期的卫生用品货架。
A near-term hygiene shelf at a Target supermarket in Orange County, Los Angeles.
图片拍摄：李晓岚目前来看，生活在美国的华人当中，有一批在1月底和2月初买到了口罩——当时疫情在美国还没开始广泛传播，在亚马逊上还有9美元100个的口罩贩卖，亚马逊的官方Amazon Prime还显示口罩有库存。
Photo: Li Xiaolan: At present, one group of Chinese living in the US bought masks in late January and early February - before the epidemic spread widely in the US, there were still $9, 100 masks on Amazon, and Amazon's official Amazon Prime showed that the masks were in stock.
此后随着疫情逐渐严峻，线下零售商和线上电商都面临口罩缺货的状况，由此也滋生了一批漫天要价的第三方卖家。
Since then, as the epidemic has become more severe, offline retailers and online vendors have faced shortages of masks, creating a spate of third-party sellers charging exorbitant prices.
据CNBC报道，由于官方渠道断货，亚马逊上有第三方卖家一度将口罩售价上抬了582%，亚马逊上周表示，他们从平台中清除了100多万个违反了定价规定和虚假宣传的消杀和个人防护商品。
CNBC reported that third-party Amazon sellers had once raised the price of masks by 582% because of official line-outs, and last week said it had removed more than a million sterilisation and personal protective goods from the platform that violated pricing rules and false claims.
此外美国的一些医院也陷入缺口罩的情况，西雅图的一家儿童医院便在门口摆出了接受口罩捐赠的牌子；推特中，有一些公益组织列出了目前紧缺的商品清单，包括面罩、口罩、防护服、一次性手套、酒精棉球等等。
In addition, hospitals in the United States have been caught in a vacuum. A Seattle-based children's hospital has put up signs at the door to accept donations of masks. On Twitter, some public interest groups have listed items that are in short supply, including masks, masks, suits, disposable gloves, alcohol cotton balls, etc.
西雅图一家儿童医院外的招牌。
A sign outside a children's hospital in Seattle.
目前来看，尽管平台方已经开始整改，但亚马逊、Ebay上的第三方口罩卖家仍然有参差不齐的情况。
So far, third-party mask sellers on Amazon and Ebay are still patchy, even though the platform is already in the process of revamping.
一些美国华人对界面新闻表示，这些第三方贩卖的大多是中国生产出口的口罩，但质量和品牌需要仔细鉴别，50个口罩的售价大多在20美元至30美元之间。
Some Chinese Americans told the Interface News that most of these third-party sales are Chinese-made masks, but the quality and brand need to be carefully identified. Most of the 50 face masks sell for between $20 and $30.
张亮在两周前购买了Ebay上的一次性医用口罩，售价为28美元50个，“在美国发货的口罩里已经算便宜了，”他对界面新闻说。
Zhang bought a disposable medical mask on Ebay two weeks ago for $28, 50, "cheap enough to ship in the U. S.," he told Interface News.
居住在湾区的伍雯则找了一家亚马逊上的中国卖家，买到了中国发货的口罩，29美元50个。
Wu Wen, who lives in the Bay Area, found a Chinese seller on Amazon and bought a Chinese-delivered mask for $29, 50.
微商和微信群卖口罩开始在美国华人中流行起来，各色微信群成了人们互通有无的渠道，开始有人在朋友圈卖口罩。
Microbusinesses and microphones are beginning to catch on among Chinese Americans, with micro-letters serving as a channel for people to exchange what they need and people selling masks in a circle of friends.
与亚马逊上的第三方卖家一样，“有的微商口罩便宜到让人不放心，但卖的贵也不敢完全相信。
Like third-party sellers on Amazon, "some micro-business masks are too cheap to be trusted, but they are expensive to sell."
”林肖丹说，在洛杉矶的华人微信群，有人卖3美元50个的口罩，国内厂家的正规医学口罩，物流代发。
In the Los Angeles-based Chinese micro-faith community, people are selling $3, 50 face masks, regular medical masks from domestic manufacturers and logistics surrogates, he said.
林肖丹的女朋友则在另一个看起来相对靠谱的微商那买到了38美元50个的口罩，同样是中国厂家运到美国的。
Lindsay's girlfriend bought $38, 50 masks from another seemingly reliable micromerchant, also shipped to the United States by a Chinese manufacturer.
口罩在华人群体中更紧俏、信息也更为灵通，一个重要原因是目前佩戴和购买口罩的大部分还是华人。
Masks are tighter and better informed among the Chinese community. One important reason is that the majority of those wearing and buying masks are Chinese.
“亚洲超市有八成人都戴口罩，但你去Costco等大众超市只有你自己戴。
"Eight out of ten people in Asian supermarkets wear masks, but you only wear them yourself when you go to a popular supermarket like Costco.
之前我去DMV（美国车管所）办业务还因为戴口罩被歧视过。
I went to the DMV before and was discriminated against for wearing a mask.
”沈雨青对界面新闻说，她在洛杉矶的一家画廊从事艺术品管理，但由于疫情，现在已经三天没出门了。
Shen told Interface News that she works as an art director at a Los Angeles gallery but has not been out for three days because of the outbreak.
她上一次买到口罩还是1月中旬，之后她在各平台的第三方卖家买的口罩都还没发货。
The last time she bought a mask was in mid-January, none of the masks she had bought from third-party vendors on various platforms had been delivered.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国口罩有价无市，不少华人开始微商买口罩。
Mell Mill Mell City, many Chinese began to micro-business to buy masks.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国口罩有价无市，不少华人开始微商买口罩";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; US Mask Mell has a price tag, and many Chinese have begun to buy Mask & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "由于口罩紧缺，微商和微信群卖口罩开始在美国华人中流行起来，各色微信群成了人们互通有无的渠道。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; MSPs and tweets have become popular with Chinese Americans because of a shortage of masks.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
