加强检测能力是硬道理，韩国经验值得全球借鉴。
Strengthening detection capability is the absolute principle, the Korean experience is worth learning from the world.
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Yonhap记者：潘金花“ 在韩国，每200人中就有1人接受了新冠病毒检测。
Source: Yonhap Journalist: Pan Jinhua "In South Korea, 1 in 200 people are tested for the new crown virus.
”“我们要向所有国家传递一个简单的信息：检测，检测，再检测。
"We want to send a simple message to all countries: detection, testing, re-testing.
”3月16日，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞在日内瓦发出加强检测的呼吁。
On March 16, WHO Director-General Lindsay Tan launched a call for intensified surveillance in Geneva.
“预防感染和拯救生命的最有效方法就是打破传播链。
"The most effective way to prevent infection and save lives is to break the chain of transmission.
要做到这一点，就必须检测和隔离，”他说，“谁都不可能蒙住双眼救火。
To do this, you have to be tested and quarantined, "he said." No one can put his eyes on the fire.
如果不知道谁被感染了，就无法阻止这场大流行。
If we do not know who is infected, we will not be able to stop the pandemic.
”根据美国约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的统计数据，截至北京时间18日17时，全球新冠肺炎累计确诊病例数已达到19.8万例。
According to Johns Hopkins University, the cumulative number of confirmed cases of pneumonia worldwide had reached 198,000 by 1700 hours Beijing time on Tuesday.
然而目前，仍有不少国家面临着“检测难”的问题。
At present, however, many countries still face the problem of "difficult to detect."
截至北京时间17日22时30分，在非洲的54个国家中，已有超过一半报告了新冠肺炎确诊病例，达30国。
By 2230 hours Beijing time, more than half of the 54 countries in Africa, or 30 countries, had reported confirmed cases of pneumonia.
而据彭博新闻社16日报道，截至上周末，仅有36个非洲国家具备新冠病毒检测能力，若非洲出现大规模感染事件，各国的检测实验室仍有可能被“压垮”。
By the end of the weekend, only 36 African countries had the capability to detect the virus, and national testing laboratories could still be overwhelmed in the event of a mass infection in Africa, Bloomberg News reported Monday.
发达国家的检测能力同样“跟不上”。
Developed countries "detection capacity has similarly" fallen behind. "
如瑞士就已从上周开始，优先为高风险和出现严重症状的人群提供检测，轻症人群则被建议留在家中、自行隔离，以缓解有关医疗机构及实验室的压力。
Switzerland, for example, has prioritized testing for high-risk and severely symptomatic populations since last week, while light patients are advised to stay at home and isolate themselves in order to relieve the pressure on medical institutions and laboratories.
美国的检测速度也远远落后于其他国家。
The United States also lags far behind other countries in testing.
根据美国疾控中心（CDC）官方网站公布的最新数据，截至3月16日，CDC和地方公共卫生实验室仅检测了约3.2万份样本，但当天，美国的累计确诊病例已突破4000例（截至18日17时已近6500例）。
As of March 16, only about 32,000 samples had been tested by the CDC and local public health labs, but the cumulative number of confirmed cases in the United States exceeded 4,000 on the same day (nearly 6,500 as at 1700 hours on March 18), according to the latest data available on the CDC's official website.
据界面新闻此前报道，美国检测“迟缓”，主要与条件严苛、工具不足有关。
As the Interface News had previously reported, testing in the United States had been "slow," mainly due to harsh conditions and inadequate tools.
《纽约时报》17日指出，在美国，每100万人中仅有约125人接受了检测，远低于其他公布了相关数据的国家。
In the United States, only about 125 people per million people have been tested, far less than in other countries where data are available, the New York Times reported Thursday.
据了解，截至上周末，美国的检测都是手动完成的，各个实验室每天仅能进行40至60次检测。
As of the end of last week, the tests in the United States were done manually, with laboratories performing only 40 to 60 tests a day.
每100万人口中接受检测的人数，从下到上为：韩国、意大利、澳大利亚、奥地利、英国、捷克、希腊、美国。
The number of people tested per 1 million population is as follows: South Korea, Italy, Australia, Austria, United Kingdom, Czech Republic, Greece, United States.
来源：纽约时报与美国不同，意大利早在疫情爆发初期，就已在伦巴第大区铺开了检测工作，只要是曾与确诊患者接触过的人，无论有无症状，都需要接受检测，这也部分解释了为何意大利的确诊病例数会增长得如此之快。
Source: Unlike the United States, the New York Times has been testing in the Lombardy region since the early days of the outbreak, so long as people who have been in contact with diagnosed patients, with or without symptoms, need to be tested, which partly explains why the number of confirmed cases in Italy is growing so fast.
据了解，在2月底仅有500余人确诊时，意大利就已完成了一万多次检测。
By the end of February, just over 500 people had been diagnosed, and more than 10,000 tests had been completed in Italy.
在该国一些小镇，大规模的检测也帮助切断了传播链。
Large-scale testing has also helped to sever transmission chains in some of the country's small towns.
在靠近威尼斯的沃镇，地方政府2月下旬就对全体居民、约3300人进行了检测，感染者占比3%，无论有无症状均被隔离，10天后的第二轮检测显示，感染率已降至0.3%。
In the town of Vaud, near Venice, local authorities tested the entire population of about 3,300 people in late February, representing 3 per cent of those infected, isolated with or without symptoms, and a second round of tests 10 days later showed a rate of infection of 0.3 per cent.
而在海外，病毒检测力度最大的国家无疑是韩国。
And overseas, the country with the most virulent testing is undoubtedly South Korea.
截至18日零时，韩国累计确诊8413例新冠肺炎病例，连续四天单日新增病例数低于100例。
By 0000 hours on the 18th, a cumulative total of 8,413 new cases of pneumonia had been diagnosed in South Korea, with fewer than 100 new cases reported in a single day for four consecutive days.
尽管仍存在零星的聚集性感染事件，但在确诊病例数破千的海外国家中，韩国是唯一一个呈现出明显放缓趋势的国家。
Although sporadic cases of concentrated infection remain, South Korea is the only overseas country with a significant slowdown in the number of confirmed cases.
从2月4日首款检测试剂盒获批至今，韩国累计已给27万人进行了病毒检测，即每200人中，就有1人接受了检测。
Since February 4, when the first test kit was approved, 270,000 people have been tested, or one in 200.
据《华尔街日报》16日报道，韩国一共在境内设置了633个筛查点，包括“免下车”筛查诊所，以及在爆发疫情的建筑物前临时设置的诊所等，日检测能力达2万人。
A total of 633 screening sites have been set up in South Korea, including drop-off screening clinics and temporary clinics in front of buildings with a daily detection capacity of 20,000, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday.
在韩国，只要是有相关接触史或是有医生的建议，接受检测都是免费的，完成取样仅需10分钟。
In South Korea, tests are free of charge and take only 10 minutes to complete, as long as there is a history of exposure or a doctor's recommendation.
在这之后，样本会被保存在40华氏度（约4.4摄氏度）的密封容器中，运往118个实验室，由约1200名医疗专业人员完成分析，一般需要六个小时，患者通常在一天内就能获知结果。
After that, the samples are stored in sealed 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4.4 degrees Celsius) containers and transported to 118 laboratories, where they are analysed by about 1,200 medical professionals, typically taking six hours, with results usually available within a day.
韩国具备这样的检测能力，是吸取了2015年中东呼吸综合征（MERS）的教训。
South Korea's ability to do so is based on the lessons of the 2015 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).
近年，韩国引入了紧急使用许可制度，缩短了药物和试剂投放市场所需的时间。
In recent years, an emergency use permit system had been introduced, reducing the time required for the placing of drugs and reagents on the market.
此外，韩国还重新设计了紧急情况系统，在各大医院和地方保健所都配备了RT-PCR检测装置，为迅速诊断提供了基础。
In addition, the emergency system has been redesigned and RT-PCR detection devices have been installed in major hospitals and local health clinics, providing a basis for rapid diagnosis.
现在，有“余力”的韩国企业也在给其他国家供应检测试剂盒。
Now South Korean companies, which have the spare capacity, are also supplying test kits to other countries.
韩国共有四家企业获得了食品药品安全处的新冠病毒试剂盒紧急使用许可，其中包括专门生产核酸检测试剂盒的Seegene公司，该公司在本月初就已收到了30多个国家的“紧急订货请求”。
Four South Korean companies have received Food and Drug Safety Service emergency licenses for new crown virus kits, including Seegene, which specializes in producing nucleic acid test kits, which received "urgent order requests" from more than 30 countries earlier this month.
随着全球新冠肺炎病例站上20万例，各国必须加快检测的步伐。
With 200,000 new cases of pneumonia worldwide, countries must step up testing.
谭德塞16日说，世卫组织已向120个国家运送了近150万份试剂盒，并正与有关企业合作，以增加产量，供最需要的人使用。
The World Health Organization has shipped nearly 1.5 million kits to 120 countries and is working with companies to increase production for those most in need, Tan said Wednesday.
中国多所高校研发的14种检测试剂盒日前也已进入欧盟市场，向意大利、英国、荷兰等11个国家供货。
Fourteen test kits, developed by universities in China, have also entered the EU market, supplying 11 countries including Italy, the UK and the Netherlands.
此前，中国已向伊朗、日本、巴基斯坦、非盟、塞尔维亚、菲律宾等国家和国家组织捐赠了上万个检测试剂盒。
Earlier, China had donated tens of thousands of test kits to Iran, Japan, Pakistan, the African Union, Serbia, the Philippines and other countries and international organizations.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
加强检测能力是硬道理，韩国经验值得全球借鉴。
Strengthening detection capability is the absolute principle, the Korean experience is worth learning from the world.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "加强检测能力是硬道理，韩国经验值得全球借鉴";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; South Korea's experience.
var msg_desc = "在韩国，每200人中就有1人接受了新冠病毒检测。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in South Korea, one in every 200 people has been tested for the new crown virus.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
