留在美国的哈佛博士生：我正在等新冠检测通知。
Harvard PhD student staying in the United States: I am waiting for the announcement of the new crown test.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter记者：安晶“ “外面的天气好得要命，感觉这个疫情像是假的。
Source: Twitter reporter: "The weather outside is awfully good, it feels like the outbreak is fake.
””“我的学生私下告诉我，他做了病毒检测，正在等结果。
"" My student told me privately that he had been tested for the virus and was waiting for the results.
我现在还没有症状，正在家隔离，看会不会收到去检测的通知。
I have no symptoms yet, and I am isolated at home to see if I will be notified of the test.
”哈佛大学的博士研究生何小伟告诉界面新闻，他已经在家隔离了六天。
Harvard doctoral student He Xiaowei told the Interface News that he had been isolated at home for six days.
哈佛大学目前有两名学生确诊感染新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Two students at Harvard University have been confirmed to have contracted the new coronavirus pneumonia.
现在学校正在放春假。
The school is having spring break now.
何小伟的儿子尚未满周岁，他母亲正在美国帮忙带小孩。
His son is not yet one year old, and his mother is helping to raise children in the United States.
按照之前的设想，何小伟原打算在春假期间带母亲去纽约旅游放松一下。
He had planned to take his mother on a trip to New York City during spring break to relax.
武汉封城后，何小伟上的一门课曾用武汉做案例，讨论“紧急状态”问题。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, He Xiaowei on a course used Wuhan as a case to discuss the "state of emergency."
他从未想过，原本只是学术讨论中的案例，会离自己的生活如此之近。
It never occurred to him that what was originally just a case of academic discussion would be so close to his life.
何小伟第一次听到新型冠状病毒是在春节前。
He first heard about the new coronavirus before the Spring Festival.
当时美国有中文媒体将其称为“新型非典”，也有文章说是吃蝙蝠引发的，何小伟只是觉得“不可思议”。
At the time, Chinese-language media in the United States called it "the new SARS," but some articles said that it was caused by eating bats, he just thought "incredible."
那时候，美国国内的焦点全部放在了对总统特朗普的弹劾审判。
Back then, the domestic focus was entirely on the impeachment trial of President Trump.
美国参议院于1月16日开始特朗普的弹劾审判，一直持续到2月5日。
The US Senate began Trump's impeachment trial on January 16, and continued until February 5.
“没有几个人关心中国的疫情。
"Few people care about the epidemic in China.
”何小伟在美国生活了多年，据他的观察，美国主流媒体没有走世界主义路线、主要关注美国国内的事情，只有从其他国家的媒体上能看到关于疫情的报道。
He has lived in the US for many years, and he observes that the mainstream media in the US are not cosmopolitan, focusing mainly on events in the US, and only reports of the epidemic can be seen in the media in other countries.
虽然知道了武汉的疫情，但何小伟并没有任何紧张感，同学和同事之间也鲜少有人讨论。
Although know Wuhan epidemic situation, but He Xiaowei does not have any tenseness, schoolmate and colleague also few people discuss.
这段时期，何小伟印象最深的是一名同学在武汉封城之前回到美国。
During this period, he was most impressed by a classmate before the closure of Wuhan back to the United States.
大家都对她表示了关心，哈佛的各个中国学生组织开始组织捐款。
Everyone showed concern for her, and Chinese student groups at Harvard began to organize donations.
收到捐款后，学生组织在当地扫货，购买了大批口罩、防护服和护目镜。
When donations were received, student groups razed the area and purchased large quantities of masks, protective clothing and goggles.
看到印有学校名字的捐赠箱抵达武汉的照片时，何小伟还感觉很欣慰。
He was also relieved to see pictures of the donation box bearing the name of the school arriving in Wuhan.
真正让他开始有紧张感是除湖北之外，疫情开始扩散，浙江的确诊病例增多。
Really let him start to have tension is in addition to Hubei, the outbreak began to spread, Zhejiang confirmed cases increased.
何小伟在浙江有亲戚，听说杭州也要封城，“我就感觉事情严重了”。
He Xiaowei has relatives in Zhejiang Province, heard that Hangzhou will also be closed, "I feel serious things."
再之后，何小伟姐姐所在的小区出现确诊，小区被封。
After that, his sister Ho Xiaowei's community appeared to be diagnosed, the community was sealed.
“媳妇比较着急，让我去药店买口罩做些准备。
"Daughter-in-law is worried. Let me go to the pharmacy to buy masks.
”何小伟去了很多家药店，只看到了口罩在补货中的提示；在亚马逊网站上，大部分口罩也显示要3月中旬才有货。
He went to many pharmacies and saw only tips on filling; on Amazon.com, most masks were not available until mid-March.
何小伟的妻子天天去药妆店碰运气，一直没有收获，再加上美国当时本土确诊病例很少，两人便放弃了继续寻找口罩。
His wife went to the makeup shop every day to try her luck, and, given the small number of confirmed cases in the United States at the time, they gave up looking for masks.
1月21日，美国的首例本土确诊病例出现西海岸的华盛顿州。
On January 21, the first home-grown confirmed case in the United States appeared on the west coast of Washington State.
之后，新增确诊病例主要分布在华盛顿州、加州等西海岸地区。
Since then, the new confirmed cases mainly in Washington state, California and other West Coast areas.
哈佛大学位于东海岸马萨诸塞州。
Harvard University is located east coast Massachusetts.
虽然马萨诸塞州的首例确诊出现在2月1日，但该州此前大部分确诊都与一家生物科技公司在波士顿举行的员工会议有关。
Although the first confirmed case in Massachusetts occurred on February 1, most of the state's previous diagnoses were linked to a staff meeting held in Boston by a biotech firm.
美国从“钻石公主”号撤侨也没有引起何小伟身边美国同事和朋友的不安，“撤回来的人都被安排在军事基地，离我们很远，好吃好喝，还有心理医生，大家觉得这样的安排很妥帖”。
The withdrawal of American "Princess Diamond" did not upset his American colleagues and friends. "The evacuees were stationed at the military base, far away from us, good food and drink, and psychiatrists.
这一时期，学校发邮件宣布，申请去中国的研究项目将被推迟。
During this period, the school e-mailed to announce that applications for research projects in China would be delayed.
何小伟本来计划在暑假做一个研究项目，收到学校通知后，“感觉项目没戏了”。
He had planned to do a research project during the summer vacation. Upon receiving the school notice, he "felt the project was over."
此时，对于何小伟个人而言，除了牵挂国内的家人，疫情对他日常生活造成的唯一影响是研究项目做不成了。
At this point, for Mr Ho personally, the only impact of the epidemic on his daily life, apart from his family at home, was the failure of the research program.
而据他回忆，当地人对疫情关注的转折点出现在意大利确诊病例激增之后。
The turning point in local attention to the epidemic, he recalls, came after a surge in confirmed cases in Italy.
“因为大家都喜欢去意大利玩，马上又是春假，很多人都在计划去意大利。
"Because everybody likes to go to Italy, and it's spring break again, and a lot of people are planning to go to Italy.
但学校和各种机构突然叫停了意大利行程。
But schools and institutions abruptly halted the trip to Italy.
”这时候已经有人开始关心从意大利返回美国的乘客有没有进行自我隔离。
Already there is concern about whether passengers returning to the US from Italy are isolating themselves.
与此同时，华盛顿州金县的养老院社群感染在2月29日出现了首例死亡。
Meanwhile, community infections in retirement homes in Golden County, Washington, led to the first death on Feb. 29.
报告首例死亡之后，何小伟收到了学校的邮件，称校方正在密切关注疫情发展，呼吁大家勤洗手。
After reporting his first death, he received an e-mail from the school saying it was monitoring the situation and urging people to wash their hands regularly.
系门口也出现免洗消毒液，进出的人都开始在手上涂消毒液。
The door also appeared to be free of disinfectant, people in and out of the hands began to smear disinfectant.
何小伟随后去了当地的一家大型超市，买了肥皂、两袋米、10包面粉和两根羊腿。
He then went to a local supermarket and bought soap, two bags of rice, 10 bags of flour and two leg of mutton.
他当时考虑大超市人多经常排队，今后要减少去人群密集地的次数，但超市里买东西的当地人却“一如既往的淡定”。
He thought big supermarkets were lined up more often and would be less crowded in the future, but locals who bought in supermarkets were "as cool as ever."
回家后，何小伟再次开始在亚马逊上找口罩，但价格已经集体翻倍。
When he returned home, he began to look for masks again on Amazon, but prices have doubled collectively.
平时仅需80美分一个的一次性口罩变成了3美元，要等几周才有货，而且还额外增加了20美元左右的运费。
Disposable masks, which normally cost as little as 80 cents, became $3, which took weeks to arrive, and added an extra $20 or so in freight costs.
他再次放弃了在美国国内买口罩的想法。
He again abandoned the idea of buying masks in the United States.
“一方面我觉得当地人口密度小，没有口罩其实是可以的；再一个是最近几个医院发出求助，说医用物资短缺，让大家不要占用口罩，我觉得是有道理的。
"On the one hand, I think it's OK to be without masks because of the low population density, and on the other hand, I think it makes sense to ask people not to use masks because of a shortage of medical supplies," he said.
”也许因为平时出门没有戴口罩，何小伟没有遭到过当地人的歧视和辱骂。
Perhaps because he did not wear a mask when he went out, he was not discriminated against or abused by the locals.
但他也从报道里看到了戴口罩的华人被歧视的新闻。
But he also saw reports of discrimination against Chinese wearing masks.
虽然他本人不认为口罩是必需品，但考虑到一家老小，何小伟还是托了国内的家人寄口罩到美国。
Although he doesn't think masks are a necessity, Mr. He sent masks to the U.S. with his family back home, considering his family and children.
对于美国政府被指应对疫情迟缓，在何小伟看来，美国一直是弱政府、民众彪悍，大家并没有指望政府能怎么样，“因此现在买枪的人都变多了”。
With the US government accused of being slow to respond to the epidemic, Mr Ho argues that the US has been weak, with a strong population, and no one expects the government to do, "so there are more people buying guns now."
据《福布斯》杂志报道，今年2月，美国联邦调查局系统中记录的购枪者背景调查达到280万份，比去年同期上涨36%，也是自2016年以来的最大涨幅。
In February, FBI files recorded 2.8 million background checks of gun buyers, up 36 percent from the same period last year and the biggest jump since 2016, Forbes said.
在华盛顿州、加州和纽约州等重灾区，还出现了排队买枪的盛况，部分枪支店的销量在近两周上涨了六倍。
There were also gun queues in hard-hit areas such as Washington, California and New York, with sales of some gun stores up six-fold in the past two weeks.
从2月23日到3月4日，弹药销售网站Ammo.com中的付款转账比前11天上涨了68%。
From 23 February to 4 March, payment transfers from Ammo.com, the ammunition sales website, increased by 68 per cent over the previous 11 days.
2月23日正是意大利宣布对北部受疫情影响严重的11个城镇实施封锁隔离之时。
It was on 23 February that Italy announced the closure and isolation of 11 towns in the north that had been severely affected by the epidemic.
随着疫情在美国扩散，截至3月17日，马萨诸塞州的确诊病例已经升至218例。
As the epidemic spreads in the United States, the number of confirmed cases in Massachusetts rose to 218 as of March 17.
哈佛大学10日发布公告，要求所有学生在春假结束后不要返校，春假后的本科和研究生课程将改为远程或网络授课。
Harvard University on Tuesday ordered all students not to return to school after spring break, after which undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be taught remotely or online.
原计划的开学时间为3月23日。
The planned start of the school year was 23 March.
同一天，哈佛大学还要求住校学生在15日之前搬离学校，学校将为寄送保存行李提供补贴。
On the same day, resident students were required to leave school by the 15th, and the school would subsidize the sending and storing of luggage.
虽然学校开始采取行动，但何小伟不久前才与同事聚餐，“大家都是点了餐一起分享”。
Although the school began to take action, he did not dine with his colleagues until recently. "Everyone ordered a meal and shared it."
最近，他发现了一些变化：公寓楼下堆满了网购的快递包，“目测尿不湿和厕纸最多”。
Recently, he discovered changes: Apartment buildings are filled with online delivery bags, "visual urine and toilet paper most."
随着越来越多中国人选择回国躲避疫情，何小伟收到了朋友分享的机票信息，从波士顿回国的机票已经涨到3万元人民币左右。
With more Chinese returning home to escape the epidemic, Mr. He has received flight information shared by friends, and his flight home from Boston has risen to about 30,000 yuan.
但何小伟没有考虑过回国。
But Mr Ho did not consider returning home.
在他看来，去人满为患、没有防疫检测的机场，感染病毒的可能性更大，“机场走一圈，得病百分百”。
In his view, to go to overcrowded airports without vaccination tests, the risk of contracting the virus is greater, "airport walk, 100 percent disease."
上周，何小伟收到了学校的邮件，宣布学生中有两人确诊。
Last week he received an email from the school announcing that two of the students had been diagnosed.
为了保护个人隐私，学校没有公开确诊学生的详细信息。
In order to protect personal privacy, the school did not publicly confirm the details of students.
密切接触者会单独收到通知，进行隔离检测。
Close contacts are notified separately for isolation testing.
而何小伟的一名学生私下发信息，告诉他自己接受了病毒检测，正在等检测结果。
One of his students sent a message privately telling him he had been tested for the virus and was waiting for the test results.
在此之前，何小伟与包括这名学生在内的15人在同一教室上课。
He had been in the classroom with 15 others, including the student.
收到信息后，何小伟开始了自我隔离，“只能等着看会不会被通知去检测”。
After receiving the information, he began to isolate himself, "can only wait to see if they will be informed to test."
按照流程，如果怀疑自己感染新冠病毒，何小伟需先电话联系家庭医生，由家庭医生判断是否需要接受进一步检测。
According to the procedure, if he suspects he is infected with the new crown virus, he needs to call the family doctor to decide whether he needs further tests.
如果可疑程度高，校医院会派救护车将何小伟送往隔离点检测。
If the level of suspicion is high, the school hospital will send an ambulance to take him to the quarantine site for testing.
由于目前没有任何症状，何小伟选择了留在家中。
With no symptoms at the moment, he chose to stay at home.
他在家中主要是批改学生作业、开视频会、看电影、刷视频。
At home, he mainly marks schoolwork, holds video meetings, watches movies, and brushes the video.
“外面的天气好得要命，感觉这个疫情像是假的。
"It was such a fine day out there that it felt like a fake.
”但视频中频繁出现的股市熔断、疫情走向预期的新闻不断提醒着何小伟：病毒是真的，他正在因此隔离。
But the video's frequent stock-market meltdowns and predictions of an epidemic are a constant reminder that the virus is real and that he is being quarantined.
“还好家里囤了粮，”何小伟说，“现在最担心的就是收到通知让我去检测。
"Fortunately, the family hoard," he said, "now the most worried is to receive notification to me to test.
”何小伟的母亲目前心情不太好，非常担忧他的身体状况；何小伟最大的担忧则是，如果自己被感染了传染给家人，“生活就底朝天了”。
His mother is in a bad mood and is worried about his health; his biggest worry is that if he gets infected and infects his family, "life is upside down."
等到疫情结束的那一天，何小伟最想做的是：“把我妈送回家。
By the time the outbreak was over, what he wanted most was to send my mother home.
”（为保护个人隐私，应被采访者要求，何小伟为化名。
"(In order to protect his privacy, he was given an alias at the interviewee's request.
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留在美国的哈佛博士生：我正在等新冠检测通知。
Harvard PhD student staying in the United States: I am waiting for the announcement of the new crown test.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "留在美国的哈佛博士生：我正在等新冠检测通知";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Harvard PhD student left in the U.S.: I'm waiting to see RG & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "“外面的天气好得要命，感觉这个疫情像是假的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
”​";。
"?"
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
