63岁英国医学家口述：我几乎肯定会被感染。
A 63-year-old British medical expert dictated that I would almost certainly be infected.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
Paul Hunter记者：王磬“它将是一场艰难的持久战。
Paul Hunter: "It will be a long and difficult battle," he said.
”世界卫生组织（WHO）近日宣布，新冠肺炎疫情的中心已经转移至欧洲。
The World Health Organization (WHO) recently announced that the center of the outbreak of pneumonia had been moved to Europe.
兵临城下，英国首相约翰逊表示，想要彻底扼杀病毒已不太可能，唯有缓慢地通过自然感染令英国国民获得群体免疫（herd immunity）才能渡过疫情。
In the immediate aftermath, British Prime Minister Gordon Johnson said it was unlikely that the virus would be wiped out, but that only a slow natural infection would enable British nationals to get through the epidemic through mass immunization.
这种颇有争议的做法不仅在医学界掀起了激烈讨论，也加剧了人们对于老年人等脆弱群体的担忧。
This controversial practice has not only sparked heated debate in the medical community, but also heightened concerns about vulnerable groups such as the elderly.
老年人是新冠病患中死亡率最高的群体，这对本已高度老龄化的欧洲社会提出了前所未有的挑战。
Older persons are the group with the highest mortality rates among new crown patients, which poses an unprecedented challenge to an already highly ageing European society.
63岁的保罗·亨特（Paul Hunter）是英国东安格利亚大学诺里奇医学院的教授，多年从事微生物学和流行病控制方面的研究，曾任世卫组织顾问。
Paul Hunter, 63, is a professor at Norwich School of Medicine at the University of East Anglia. He has spent many years studying microbiology and epidemiology control and has been a WHO consultant.
他近日接受了界面新闻的专访，谈到了“群体免疫”的相关医学争论、是否佩戴口罩的中西之争，以及对于像他这样的英国老年人来说，这场疫情可能意味着什么。
In a recent interview with Interface News, he talked about the medical debate over mass immunization, whether to wear masks in China and the West, and what the epidemic might mean for older British people like him.
以下是他的口述：==========今早卫生部长说，他们正在考虑一项政策，即每个70岁以上的英国人都应该在疫情中自我隔离。
The following is his oral message: = = = = = = = = = = = This morning the Minister of Health said that they were considering a policy whereby every Englishman over the age of 70 should isolate himself in an epidemic.
大约只需要两三个星期，这个政策就会出台。
The policy will be in place in about two or three weeks.
我很赞同。
I quite agree with you.
新冠肺炎（COVID-19）的致死率主要体现在老年人身上，需要阻断老年人被感染的途径。
The mortality rate of New Crown Pneumonia (COVID-19) is mainly in the elderly, the need to block the way in which the elderly are infected.
英国的老龄化比中国更严重，这一点尤其紧迫。
This is particularly urgent in the UK, where ageing is more severe than in China.
但我尚不知具体将如何执行。
But I don't know exactly how.
在家隔离之后，老年人要如何获得食物，有基础疾病的人要如何获得药物，都是真实的问题。
The question of how to obtain food for older persons after isolation at home, and how to obtain medicines for persons with underlying diseases, is real.
我之前行医的时候就发现，如果出现需要将传染病患者进行隔离的情况，老年人的耐受力很低。
When I practiced medicine before, I found that older people have low tolerance when it comes to the need to isolate people with infectious diseases.
他们其实无法很好地忍受孤独。
They don't really tolerate loneliness very well.
对于那些有轻度痴呆的老人，不经常与人接触之后，他们的智力可能会下降得更快。
Older people with mild dementia may experience a more rapid decline in intelligence after infrequent contact with humans.
要降低死亡率，获得疫苗仍然是最有效的途径。
Access to vaccines remains the most effective way to reduce mortality.
搞流行病研究的会知道，“群体免疫”可以通过疫苗接种获得，也可以通过人群的自然感染获得。
Epidemiologists will know that "mass immunization" can be achieved either through vaccination or through natural infection in the population.
一旦达到目标之后，这两种途径就没有区别了：只要一定比例的人口感染了病毒、然后变得免疫，这种疾病最终都会自行消亡。
Once the goal is reached, there is no difference between the two approaches: as long as a certain proportion of the population becomes infected with the virus and becomes immune, the disease eventually dies of its own accord.
但人群自然感染的途径显然要不可控得多。
But the route of natural infection is clearly much less controllable.
比如，几乎没有社会是固定的、封闭的。
Few societies, for example, are fixed and closed.
即使您住在一个没有人出国的小岛上，也总是会有新出生的、没有免疫力的婴儿，因此群体免疫率总是会下降。
Even if you live on a small island where no one goes abroad, there will always be new babies born without immunity, so immunization rates will always fall.
又比如，有些流行病产生的免疫力可能只会持续几年，有些则是终生。
Some epidemics, for example, may have immunity lasting only a few years, others for a lifetime.
我们并没有足够了解新冠肺炎去判断它到底是哪一种。
We don't know enough about the new crown pneumonia to determine which one it is.
从我个人的病毒学知识去判断的话，新冠肺炎的免疫力可能会持续数年、但会有期限。
Judging from my own virological knowledge, the immunity to new crown pneumonia may last for years, but only for a limited period of time.
如果你现在感染了，获得的免疫力也许只能持续到两年以后，然后你还是容易再次受到感染。
If you are infected now, you may gain immunity only for two years, and then you are still susceptible to reinfection.
不过那时跟首次感染相比，你发展成为重症的可能性会大大降低。
But then you're much less likely to develop a serious illness than your first infection.
我不认为现阶段就来谈论群体免疫是件好事——除了让新闻记者们蜂拥而至寻求愿意解释这个术语的专家——现在没有疫苗，产生群体免疫的唯一途径就变成了放任疫情发展：如果您希望获得群体免疫力，那么您就什么也别做吧。
I don't think it's a good thing to talk about mass immunization at this stage - except for the fact that journalists flock to experts willing to explain the term - there is no vaccine, and the only way to generate mass immunization is to allow the epidemic to develop: if you want group immunity, then do nothing.
这隐含着一种无能为力的判断：政府是不是已经认定无法再控制这个病毒了？所以会放任这种流行病席卷这个国家，数以百万计的人可能面临死亡。
This implies an impotent judgment: has the government decided that it can no longer control the virus? So it will let the epidemic engulf the country, leaving millions at risk of death.
我现在也逐渐接受了群体免疫将开始在这场防疫中发挥作用的事实，同时也确实有越来越多的人在染病后康复。
I have come to accept the fact that community immunization will begin to play a role in this epidemic, and that more and more people are recovering from the disease.
要使群体免疫真正发挥作用以根除感染，会需要大约2/3的人口具有免疫力。
For mass immunization to be truly effective in eradicating infection, about two-thirds of the population would need to be immune.
但它是一个渐进的过程，而非一件全有或全无的事。
But it is a gradual process, not an all-or-nothing event.
当我们接近了那一水平的时候，该疾病的扩散会开始变慢，新增感染数会下降。
When we get close to that level, the spread of the disease begins to slow and the number of new infections falls.
这是所有流行病的规律。
This is the law of all epidemics.
这个期间，政府需要隔离最脆弱的人群——老年人和有基础疾病的人。
During this period, governments need to isolate the most vulnerable - the elderly and those with underlying diseases.
但又要避免让他们无助地待在家里：得保证他们有吃喝，有基本的医疗保障，并尽力让他们仍然能够与人社交。
But avoid leaving them helpless at home: make sure they have food, drink, basic health care, and try to keep them sociable.
我居住在柴郡的一个小村子里。
I live in a small village in Cheshire.
今早得知，乡村教区委员会已经安排下去，会为那些需要隔离的老人提供一个电话号码。
We learned this morning that village parish councils had been set up to provide a telephone number for those in need of isolation.
他们可以在每天上午十点钟打个电话，告知他们在食品和药品方面的购买需求。
They can call at ten o'clock every morning to let them know what they need for food and medicine.
然后村庄的志愿者将确保前往交付。
Village volunteers will then ensure delivery.
在社区中，我们已经看到了人们在试图保护被隔离的老人。
In the community, we have seen people trying to protect isolated elderly people.
过去这两天有不少英国科学家出来批评，说政府在做决策的时候不透明。
Over the past two days, a number of British scientists have criticized the government for its opacity in making decisions.
政府本质上是在通过数学模型来推测疫情的严重程度，再通过对模型进行更改、来评估不同的疾控方式。
The government is essentially using mathematical models to estimate the severity of the epidemic, and then to change the model to assess the different disease control methods.
有时这种模型很有用，有时也可能会有很大误导。
Sometimes this model is useful, and sometimes it can be very misleading.
除非所有人都能看到模型是怎么做出来的，才能去完善它。
Only if everyone can see how the model is made can it be perfected.
我倒认为政府不是有意隐瞒，他们可能只是觉得，公众不需要知道科学在说什么。
I don't think the government is trying to hide. They might just think that the public doesn't need to know what science is saying.
现在他们被迫变得更公开，说明他们基于什么证据做出决策。
Now they are forced to become more public about the evidence on which they base their decisions.
这个问题不是英国独有的。
The problem is not unique to Britain.
在亚洲、欧洲的许多疫情爆发国，我们都对此不感陌生。
We are familiar with this in many outbreak countries in Asia and Europe.
科学，只有当人们可以自由交流、分享、批评、争论的时候，最佳的公共卫生决策才能发挥作用，而不是关上门拍拍脑袋就能做到的。
Science, it is only when people are free to communicate, share, criticize, and argue, that the best public-health decisions work, rather than slap their heads behind closed doors.
不少科学家在关心病毒会否突变。
Many scientists are concerned whether the virus will mutate.
突变当然是可能的。
Mutations are certainly possible.
不过冠状病毒是大RNA病毒，称为非分段基因组，这样的遗传物质是单链的。
But the coronavirus is a large RNA virus, known as a non-segmented genome, and this genetic material is single-stranded.
它们有一个非常有效的复制系统，不会导致很多突变。
They have a very effective replication system and do not cause many mutations.
这跟流感不同。
It's different from the flu.
流感常有突变、并且会发生所谓的遗传漂变（genetic drift）。
Influenza often mutates and so-called genetic drift occurs.
A感染了一种典型的普通人类病毒，在养鸡场工作的B感染了鸡病毒，当这两种病毒接触时，它们共享了遗传物质，就会有一种新的病毒。
A is infected with a typical common human virus. B, who works in a chicken farm, is infected with chicken viruses. When the two viruses come into contact, they share the genetic material and a new virus is created.
但这不太会发生在冠状病毒上头。
But this is unlikely to happen on the coronavirus.
现在的研究来看，新冠病毒是有在发生一些变化，但可能没到能够明显改变其伤害能力的程度。
Current research suggests that the new crown virus is undergoing some changes, but probably not to the extent that it can significantly alter its ability to harm.
人们在十几年前就尝试对SARS进行实验、让其突变。
More than a decade ago, people tried to experiment with SARS and make it mutate.
但目前为止，产生的所有突变都只让它造成伤害的能力降低而不是增加了。
But so far, all of the mutations produced have reduced, not increased, its ability to cause harm.
所以我并没有那么担心突变。
So I'm not that worried about sudden changes.
真正让人担心的是病毒的源头。
What really worries us is the source of the virus.
已经无需置疑，新冠病毒来自蝙蝠。
There is no doubt that the new crown virus comes from bats.
蝙蝠的问题是它具有大量不同的冠状病毒，它在野外感染了别的动物，这些动物被捕获并运到市场上出售，通过中间宿主进入了人类。
The trouble with bats is that they have a lot of different coronavirus, which infects other animals in the wild, which are captured and sold on the market and passed on to humans through intermediate hosts.
这种野生动物交易虽然是非法的，但它已经持续了很多年。
This wildlife trade, though illegal, has been going on for many years.
人们也知道它有危险，但这个行业利润很高。
It is also known to be dangerous, but the industry is highly profitable.
我曾经发表了不少文章，警示野生动物带来的健康威胁。
I have published articles warning of the health threats posed by wildlife.
但它还是一再发生，现在这场流行病可能将带走百万人的生命。
But it does happen again and again, and now the epidemic threatens to take the lives of millions of people.
病毒首先威胁老年人的生命，但年轻人恐怕也不能幸免。
The virus threatens the lives of the elderly first, but young people are not immune.
比如在中国殉职的那位李文亮医生也就三十多岁。
For example, Dr. Li Wenliang, who died in the line of duty in China, is in his thirties.
不过他的例子有些特别。
But there is something special about his example.
我从一位中国专家那里听到一种说法，他的重症可能是因为暴露于大量的病毒之中。
I heard from a Chinese expert that his severe condition was probably due to exposure to a large number of viruses.
病毒的工作原理是这样的：它进入你的身体之后就开始繁衍，最初不会造成任何伤害。
The virus works like this: it starts to multiply when it enters your body, causing no harm at first.
但随着数量增多，身体里的免疫系统开始工作，但这些抗体不会在一夜之间就出现，需要几天。
But as the number increases, the body's immune system begins to work, but these antibodies do not appear overnight and take a few days.
但如果你的感染剂量很高，从一开始免疫系统就处于劣势地位。
But if you have a high dose of infection, the immune system is at a disadvantage from the start.
李医生是一位眼科医生，如果你也去看过眼科便会知道，问诊时需要跟病人挨得很近很近。
Dr. Lee is an ophthalmologist. If you see an ophthalmologist, you will know that you need to be very close to the patient during the consultation.
如果病人正在咳嗽，那将有大量的病毒渗入医生的脸庞。
If the patient is coughing, a large number of viruses will seep into the doctor's face.
相比之下，如果你只是乘坐了公交，而同车有病人在咳嗽，你即使被感染，摄入量也是很少的。
By contrast, if you're only on a bus and a fellow patient is coughing, you'll get very little if you're infected.
从这个角度来看，医务工作者是高危人群。
From this perspective, health workers are at high risk.
我非常尊重中国的医生。
I have great respect for Chinese doctors.
我看了很多对于武汉医生的报道。
I read a lot about the doctor in Wuhan.
他们中的很多人甚至在缺乏防护物资的情况下还坚持工作。
Many of them insist on working even in the absence of protective materials.
是他们避免了武汉陷入一场更大的浩劫。
It was they who prevented Wuhan from plunging into a greater catastrophe.
作为医生，我们都知道这样的情况是在冒险。
As doctors, we all know that this is a risky situation.
但他们仍然这样去做，这就是医者仁心。
But they still do that, and that's what doctors are all about.
对于我们这样的从事感染工作的医者来说，如果过多担心这些事情，就没法工作了。
For people like us who work with infections, if we worry too much about these things, we won't be able to work.
我关注到了是否配戴口罩的争论。
I'm concerned about the debate about wearing a mask.
我觉得中国人和欧洲人各自笃信的观点都有一些极端。
I think there are some extremes in the deeply held views of the Chinese and the Europeans.
欧洲的公卫专家说，普通人戴口罩没有价值，我是不认同的。
Public health experts in Europe say people wearing masks are worthless and I don't agree with them.
当然，如果你只是走在街上，保证两米之内都没有人，那可能确实没价值。
Of course, if you just walk down the street and make sure there's no one within two meters, it's probably not worth it.
但如果你像我一样，需要不时登上前往伦敦的拥挤的火车，这就很不一样。
But if, like me, you need to board a crowded train to London from time to time, it's quite different.
戴口罩当然有很多的衍生问题：如果佩戴时间太长，它们会被打湿甚至成为污染源；有些人会从口罩中染上皮疹等疾病；如果是N95这样的专业口罩，佩戴时间过长甚至会有害。
Wearing masks certainly has a number of problems: if worn too long, they can get wet or even become a source of pollution; some people contract illnesses such as rashes from their masks; and professional masks like N95 can be too long or even harmful to wear.
在看到了基于所谓的实证医学（grade criteria）、对照试验后，专家会推荐，只有生病的人才需要戴口罩。
After seeing controlled trials based on so-called grande criiteria, experts will recommend that only sick people need to wear masks.
但是，我们现在面临的问题，一是在于很多人并不知道他自己生病了，二是即使生了病打喷嚏——正如我们在以往流感季节看到的那样——欧洲人也很少戴口罩。
But the problem is that many people do not know he is ill, and even if he sneezes - as we have seen in previous flu seasons - Europeans rarely wear masks.
流感季节里戴口罩的病人大约只有四分之一。
Only about a quarter of patients wear masks during the flu season.
当然是口罩现在的缺口也很大，需要优先保障医护人员的口罩，希望普通人不要囤货，这又是另一个问题了。
Of course, the current gap in masks is also very large, the need to give priority to medical staff mask, hope that ordinary people do not hoard, this is another problem.
中国现在每天新增的病例都在两位数，这简直令人难以置信。
It is hard to believe that China now has double-digit new cases every day.
我认为中国在控制疾病蔓延上做得很好。
I think China is doing a good job in controlling the spread of the disease.
但我又同时不得不担心，平静只是暂时的，这个病毒还会在中国卷土重来。
But at the same time I have to worry that calm is only temporary and the virus will return in China.
也许爆发中心不再是武汉，而是别的城市。
Perhaps the epicentre of the outbreak is no longer Wuhan, but other cities.
SARS时就出现过这种情况。
This was the case with SARS.
新冠肺炎跟SARS相比更难预防。
Coronary pneumonia is more difficult to prevent than SARS.
SARS主要是在人们发病后才具有传染性，但新冠肺炎从一开始就有，通常在你住院之前，就已经感染过别人了。
SARS is mainly contagious when people get sick, but new crown pneumonia has been around since the beginning, and usually infects people before you go to the hospital.
它将是一场艰难的持久战争。
It will be a difficult and protracted war.
我今年63岁，我觉得我几乎肯定会被感染。
I'm 63, and I think I'm almost certain to get infected.
我可能会适当减少出差，但不会完全陷入自我隔离状态。
I might be able to cut back on travel, but not completely isolate myself.
我担心吗？如果我担心传染病，便不会成为一个从事传染病的医者。
Do I worry? If I worry about infectious diseases, I won't be a healer of infectious diseases.
我这辈子都在跟传染病打交道，埃博拉、寨卡、伤寒、SARS……对于个人而言，新冠肺炎的可怕程度仍然远不及埃博拉；但对社会而言，它造成的影响已经比埃博拉大多了。
I've spent my life dealing with infectious diseases, Ebola, Zika, typhoid, SARS... For individuals, the disease is still far worse than Ebola; but for society, its impact is already much larger than Ebola.
（感谢杨溢对此文的贡献）END点击图片查看相关内容未经授权 禁止转载。
(Thanks to Yang Yingyi for his contribution to this article) END Click on the picture to view the content of the unauthorized reprint.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
63岁英国医学家口述：我几乎肯定会被感染。
A 63-year-old British medical expert dictated that I would almost certainly be infected.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "63岁英国医学家口述：我几乎肯定会被感染";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 63, a British physician dictation: I almost certainly did & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "它将是一场艰难的持久战。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it will be a difficult and protracted battle.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '英国“群体免疫”行得通吗？',。
Is Britain's "group immunization" workable? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;?
subject_name: '界面新闻',。
Subject _ name: & apos; interface news & amp; apos;;,
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
