新冠肺炎重症病人救治难在哪？一线专家这么说。
Where is it difficult to treat severe cases of new crown pneumonia? First-line experts say.
陈鑫。
Chen Xin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：陈鑫“专业人士认为，在新冠肺炎疫情初期，由于医学界对疾病的认识不够，医疗资源的配备跟不上，许多病人未能及时得到救治，最终发展成为重症病人，甚至走向死亡。
Source: Visual China: Chen Xin "Professionals believe that in the early stage of the outbreak, due to insufficient medical awareness of diseases, inadequate medical resources, many patients did not receive treatment in a timely manner, eventually developed into serious patients, or even towards death.
”新冠肺炎感染者从轻症发展到重症，需要多长时间？——也许只要5天。
How long does it take for a person with New Crown Pneumonia to progress from mild to severe? - perhaps just five days.
2020年1月30日，62岁童某某因发热症状到医院就诊，当医生拿到童某某的肺部CT时，曾认为这是一例新冠肺炎轻症患者。
On January 30, 2020, 62-year-old children came to the hospital with fever symptoms, and when the doctor got a CT scan of Tongmou's lung, he thought it was a case of mild pneumonia.
但是到2月4日，童某某再次接受检查时双肺病变已明显加剧。
By February 4, however, the disease had worsened significantly by the time the child was examined again.
随后在2月5日，也是被感染的第10天，他开始接受高流量吸氧治疗，2天之后进行气管插管，最后用上了EMCO（人工心肺）。
Then, on February 5, the tenth day of infection, he began receiving high-flow oxygen therapy, followed by two days of trachea intubation and, finally, EMCO.
仅仅5天，童某某从一名轻症病人发展成为上海市公共卫生临床中心的危重病人。
In just 5 days, Tong had developed from a mild patient to a critically ill patient at the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center.
2020年3月13日，复旦大学附属中山医院感染科主任胡必杰在一场面向医疗专业人士的网络直播中分析了这起重症病例。
On March 13, 2020, Hu Bijie, director of infection at Fudan University's Zhongshan Hospital, analyzed the case in a live webcast for medical professionals.
根据国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案》，新冠肺炎的临床分型有轻症、普通型、重症、危重症四类。
According to the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme" issued by the National Health Commission, the clinical classification of New Coronavirus Pneumonia is light, common, severe and critical.
重症患者会出现气促症状，呼吸频率大于30次/分钟，同时指氧饱和度小于等于93%；而危重患者的情况更严峻，需要机械通气辅助呼吸，或出现其他器官功能衰竭。
In severe cases, shortness of breath occurs more than 30 times per minute with oxygen saturation of less than 93 per cent, while in critically ill patients the condition is more severe, requiring mechanical ventilation to aid respiration or other organ failure.
呼吸衰竭是病人发展为重症的标志，因此早期发现低氧血症，避免重症病人变成危重症是治疗的关键。
Respiratory failure (VF) is a sign of severe disease in patients, so early detection of hypoxemia and avoidance of critical illness is the key to treatment.
在这场由上海国际医院感染控制论坛（SIFIC）和中国医学论坛报联合主办的网络直播中，武汉同济医院感染科主任宁琴将近期湖北省新冠肺炎患者的临床救治工作分为三个阶段：去年12月中下旬到今年1月中下旬，1月中下旬到2月中旬，2月中旬至今。
In a live webcast hosted by the Shanghai International Hospital Infection Control Forum (SIFIC) and the China Medical Forum, Ningqin, director of infection at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, divided the recent clinical treatment of patients with Xinguan Pneumonia in Hubei Province into three phases: mid-late December last year to late January, late January to mid-February and mid-February to the present.
她说，在疫情发展的不同阶段，救治成功率也存在一定差别，其中第一批病人的死亡率相对较高。
At different stages of the epidemic, the success rate of treatment also varies, she said, with the first patients having relatively high mortality rates.
国家卫健委专家组成员、东南大学附属中大医院副院长邱海波2月4日曾在湖北省新闻发布会上表示，新冠肺炎死亡病例主要是老年病人，他们的低氧血症不是很严重，但是因为合并有冠心病、脑血管性疾病等，更容易加重造成病人死亡。
The death toll from Newcastle Pneumonia is mainly among elderly patients. Their hypoxemia is not serious, but it is more likely to cause death due to coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular diseases, said Qiu Haibo, vice-dean of the Southeast University's Central Hospital, who was a member of the national health committee.
专业人士认为，在新冠肺炎疫情初期，由于医学界对疾病的认识不够，医疗资源的配备跟不上，许多病人未能及时得到救治，最终发展成为重症病人，甚至走向死亡。
Professionals believe that in the early days of the outbreak, many patients did not receive treatment in time because of insufficient medical awareness of the disease and inadequate availability of medical resources, which eventually led to serious illness and even death.
根据卫健委早前发布的数据，武汉重症病例占确诊病例的比例最高在1月28日曾攀升至32.4%。
Wuhan accounted for the highest proportion of confirmed cases, climbing to 32.4 percent on January 28, according to figures released earlier by the Health Commission.
童朝晖是北京朝阳医院副院长，也是中央指导组医疗救治组专家。
Tong Chaohui is a vice-dean of Beijing Chaoyang Hospital and an expert on medical treatment group of the Central Steering Group.
1月18日，这位有着超过30年经验的呼吸危重症专家受命来到武汉。
The critically ill respiratory specialist, who has more than 30 years of experience, was ordered to Wuhan on January 18.
谈到初到武汉时看到的景象，童朝晖说，当时都是重症病人，“满眼一看，我觉得好像都救不活。
Speaking of the first time to see the scene in Wuhan, Tong Chaohui said, at that time are seriously ill patients, "full eyes, I feel as if all can not save.
”当时的武汉金银潭医院5、6、7层楼已经住满了重症病人，大多数患者年龄在60岁以上、伴有基础性疾病，正在接受无创通气和高流量吸氧治疗。
The 5,6,7-storey Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was full of critically ill patients, most of whom were over the age of 60 with basic illnesses and were receiving noninvasive ventilation and high-volume oxygen therapy.
“实际上，这些无创和高流量救治方式都是无效的，病人血氧饱和度只有70-80%，这在平时肯定都要插管的。
"In fact, these noninvasive and high-throughput treatments are ineffective, with only 70 to 80 percent of the patient's blood oxygen saturation, which must be intubated in normal times.
”童朝晖说，但是作为一名ICU医生，他也明白，规范操作指南在特殊时期很难落实。
But as an ICU doctor, Mr. Tong said, he also understood that it would be difficult to implement the guidelines in specific times.
在后来的日子里，童朝晖到多家医院讨论过死亡病例，发现很多病人直至死亡都没有进行插管，这让他感到遗憾。
In the days that followed, Tong went to hospitals to discuss the deaths and found that many patients until death have not been intubated, which he regrets.
临床治疗证明了插管的必要性。
Clinical treatment proved the necessity of intubation.
国家卫健委2月18日发布《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》已明确提出，当患者接受氧疗后呼吸窘迫或低氧血症无法缓解时，可考虑使用高流量鼻导管氧疗或无创通气。
The National Fitness and Health Commission announced on February 18 the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial Version 6)." When patients are unable to relieve their respiratory distress or hypoxemia after receiving oxygen therapy, they may consider using high-flow nasal catheter oxygen therapy or non-invasive ventilation.
若短时间（1-2小时）内病情无改善甚至恶化，应当及时进行气管插管和有创机械通气。
If the condition does not improve or worsen within a short period of time (1-2 hours), trachea intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation should be carried out promptly.
初期的手忙脚乱，也跟医护人员不足有关。
The initial confusion is also related to the shortage of medical staff.
换作平时，一个ICU病房护士只需负责一个病人，以确保细致、密切地观察病人的生命体征，而在当时的金银潭医院，一个护士要管3个房间。
In other words, an ICU ward nurse was responsible for only one patient to ensure that the vital signs of the patient were carefully and closely observed, whereas at the time of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, a nurse had to supervise three rooms.
“在特殊情况下，一个护士穿着防护服，要负责三间病房，在她耳朵里，所有监护仪都在叫，她是听不见的，没法分别是哪个房间的病人出现问题，因为这里每个人的氧和指数都很低。
"In exceptional cases, a nurse in protective clothing is in charge of three wards, and in her ears all the monitors are barking. She can't hear, she can't tell which room has a problem because everyone has a low oxygen and index.
”童朝晖说。
"said Tong.
同样，疫情初期，武汉从事专业呼吸危重症的专家也严重不足。
Similarly, the early stage of the epidemic, Wuhan engaged in serious professional respiratory experts are also seriously inadequate.
1月中下旬，武汉只有3家医院（金银潭、武汉肺科、武大中南）收治重症患者，随着疫情发酵，后来增加到了6所医院（新增湖北省人民医院东院、同济中法、协和西院）。
In the second half of January, Wuhan had only three hospitals (Gold and Silver Pool, Wuhan Pulmonary Department, Wuhan Central and South China University) to take in seriously ill patients. As the epidemic spread, it rose to six hospitals (the Eastern Hospital of the People's Hospital of Hubei Province, Tongzhi-Fa, Concorde Ward).
童朝晖说，一开始只能从局部调配一些从事呼吸危重症的医生和护士来救急，直到来自全国的医疗队抵达武汉，这一情况才逐渐得到缓解。
Initially, Mr. Tong said, he had to send doctors and nurses from parts of the country who were critically ill until medical teams from across the country arrived in Wuhan.
针对湖北疫情防控医疗资源具体缺口，各地派出的医疗队员除了急需的呼吸科、感染科、重症医学科人员外，还涵盖急诊科、心脏内科、神经内科、肾脏内科等多个科室。
In view of the specific shortage of medical resources for the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Province, medical teams from all over the country cover emergency departments, cardiology, neurology and renal medicine, among others, in addition to the much-needed staff in the respiratory, infectious and severe medical disciplines.
为了对医院感染进行有效预防与控制，多地派出的医疗队中还包括专门的院感防控人员。
In order to prevent and control nosocomial infections, many medical teams have included specialized staff for hospital infection prevention and control.
据统计，截至3月上旬，国家卫健委共派出346支医疗队、4.26万名医护人员支援湖北省的医疗救治工作，其中重症医学科、感染科、呼吸科、循环内科的专业人员达到了16000多人。
According to statistics, as of early March, 346 medical teams and 42,600 medical personnel had been sent by the National Health Care Commission to support medical treatment in Hubei Province, including more than 16,000 specialists in the specialties of severe medicine, infection, respiration and circulatory medicine.
一些外省市医疗队赶赴湖北的同时，还携带了不少医疗物资、设备。
While some medical teams from other provinces and cities rushed to Hubei, they also carried many medical supplies and equipment.
如浙江省第三批医疗队2月9日赶赴湖北，随行携带呼吸机40台、除颤仪4台、中心监护仪4台、心电监护仪60台、ECMO1台，设施设备等物资40余吨。
For example, the third medical team from Zhejiang Province rushed to Hubei on February 9 with 40 respirators, 4 defibrillators, 4 central monitoring devices, 60 electrocardiograms, ECMO 1 and over 40 tons of equipment and other materials.
人员和设备的支援有效缓解了武汉和整个湖北省的救治困境，治疗方案也在不断优化。
The support of personnel and equipment has effectively alleviated the plight of treatment in Wuhan and the whole Hubei province, and the treatment plan is being optimized.
国家卫健委官员此前在接受央视采访时介绍，提高治愈率还是要采取综合治疗的措施，对于重症病例，不仅仅是使用抗病毒药物，因为有很多重症患者不仅是出现了肺部的损害，还有多器官损害，包括心脏、肾脏、肝脏等，所以需要其他综合因素的治疗。
State health officials said in an interview with CCTV that improving the cure rate would still require comprehensive treatment, not just antiviral drugs for serious cases, because many patients with severe illnesses have not only lung damage, but also multiple organ damage, including heart, kidney and liver, so other complex factors are needed.
另外，医院也使用了新的疗法，比如康复患者血浆的治疗，还有中药的使用，中西医结合等手段。
In addition, hospitals are using new treatments, such as plasma treatment for convalescent patients, the use of traditional Chinese medicine, and a combination of Chinese and Western medicine.
但是童朝晖也指出，目前武汉重症病人还有数千例，白肺病人也不少。
But Tong Chaohui also pointed out that there are thousands of serious patients in Wuhan, white lung patients are also many.
专家们表示，这些重症病例共同的特点是：老年病人、合并慢性病、肺部病情进展快、持续发热。
Experts say the common characteristics of these severe cases are: elderly patients, chronic diseases, rapid lung development, and persistent fever.
所以，针对重症病人的救治方案也需要根据个体情况不断调整。
Therefore, the treatment plan for severe patients also needs to be constantly adjusted to the individual situation.
武汉市肺科医院教授杨澄清认为，尽管激素使用被认为可能引起继发感染、延缓病毒清除、造成后遗症，但多起新冠重症临床案例显示，早期小剂量激素治疗对于改善临床症状和临床结局，可能是有利的。
Yang, a professor at Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital, clarified that while hormone use was thought to cause secondary infections, delay virus clearance and sequelae, early low-dose hormone therapy may be beneficial in improving clinical symptoms and outcomes, according to a number of clinical cases of severe crown disease.
杨澄清总结，当患者炎症指标上升（需排除细菌感染）、体温38.5℃以上持续不退、胸部CT双肺多发渗出或大片状磨玻璃影或48-72小时快速进展、呼吸困难进行性加重及刺激性咳嗽明显、普通症出现重症迹象时，可以按照规定剂量使用甲强龙（糖皮质激素类药物），疗程一般是7-10天，必要时逐步减量，个体化实施。
When inflammation indicators rise (bacterial infections need to be ruled out), body temperature persists above 38.5 degrees Celsius, chest CT double-lung exudation or large-scale grinded glass shadows or 48-72 hours of rapid progress, progressive aggravation of respiratory difficulties and irritating cough, severe signs of common diseases, metostrongyron (glucocorticosteroids) can be administered in prescribed doses for 7-10 days and gradually reduced if necessary.
不过，武汉目前需要使用激素、呼吸机、气管插管的病人正在减少。
However, Wuhan currently needs to use hormones, respirators, trachea intubation patients are decreasing.
从3月上旬开始，宁琴发现以重症标准入院的病人明显少了，其中很大原因在于，国家通过一系列措施，让病人在患病早期就能被筛选出来并且接受治疗，即便之后发展成重症、危重症，也能得到很好的管理。
From early March, Ningqin found that the number of patients admitted to the hospital with intensive care standards was significantly lower. This was largely due to a series of measures adopted by the State to enable patients to be screened out and treated at an early stage of their illness and managed well even if they subsequently developed into severe and critical illness.
据湖北省卫健委数据，截止3月15日24时，湖北省目前仍在院治疗的确诊病例有8703例，其中重症2403例、危重症572例。
As of 2400 on March 15, there were 8,703 confirmed cases in hospitals in Hubei Province, of which 2,403 were severe and 572 were in critical condition, according to Hubei Wei Jiancommittee.
可以看到，重症和危重症数据相比于2月中旬的最高点（2月18日重症9289例、危重症1957例）已减少大半。
As can be seen, the number of cases of severe and critical illness has fallen by more than half from the peak of mid-February (9,289 cases of severe and 1957 cases of critical illness).
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎重症病人救治难在哪？一线专家这么说。
Where is it difficult to treat severe cases of new crown pneumonia? First-line experts say.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎重症病人救治难在哪？一线专家这么说";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "专业人士认为，在新冠肺炎疫情初期，由于医学界对疾病的认识不够，医疗资源的配备跟不上，许多病人未能及时得到救治，最终发展成为重症病人，甚至走向死亡。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Professionals say that at the start of the outbreak, many patients failed to get treatment in time to develop serious illness, or even die, because of inadequate medical awareness and inadequate medical resources.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
