强生公司：没有证据表明李兰娟推荐的达芦那韦能够用于治疗冠状病毒感染。
Johnson & amp; Johnson: There is no evidence that the drug recommended by Li Lanjuan can be used to treat coronavirus infection.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：公司官网记者：金淼 编辑：许悦“ 李兰娟院士此前曾建议将阿比多尔、达芦那韦纳入到国家卫健委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》中。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "Academician Li Lanjuan has previously recommended that Abidor and Daruanawi be included in the CNDS's" Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection "(Pilot Version 6).
”据路透社报道，3月16日，强生公司发表声明表示没有证据表明其属下公司研发的艾滋病治疗药物Prezista（通用名：达芦那韦）能够用于治疗冠状病毒感染。
On March 16, Johnson & Johnson issued a statement saying it had no evidence that the AIDS treatment drug Prezista (commonly known as Darunavir), developed by its company, could be used to treat coronavirus infection, Reuters reported.
强生公司方面指出，目前没有临床及药理证据能够支持将达芦那韦纳入到新型冠状病毒治疗指南中，也没有发表临床研究评估达芦那韦、达芦那韦/可比西它及达芦那韦/可比西它/恩曲他滨/替诺福韦用于治疗新型冠状病毒的有效性和安全性。
J & J said there was no clinical or pharmacological evidence to support the inclusion of Daruanavir in the new coronavirus treatment guidelines, and no clinical studies had been published to assess the efficacy and safety of Daruanavir, Daruanavir / Bissifat and Daruanavir / Bissitabine / Tenofovir for the treatment of the new coronavirus.
另外，目前尚无达芦那韦用于冠状病毒的体外研究。
In addition, there is no in vitro study on the coronavirus.
同时，强生公司表示达芦那韦不应在没有利托那韦或可比西它等药物促进剂的情况下给药。
At the same time, Johnson & Johnson said Daruthavec should not be administered without a drug promoter such as ritonavir or comparable citavir.
在声明中，强生公司也表示，愿意与政府、专家及其他机构合作，严格收集和透明化数据，通过证据指导有效药物的使用。
In the statement, Johnson & Johnson also said it was willing to work with governments, experts and other agencies to rigorously collect and transparently data to guide the use of effective drugs through evidence.
2月4日，中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟团队公布最新研究成果，认为阿比多尔、达芦那韦两种药物可有效抑制新型冠状病毒。
On February 4, Li Lanjuan, an academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level expert group of the National Health Commission, announced the latest research results.
李兰娟院士建议将以上两种药物列入国家卫健委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》。
Academician Li Lan-juan suggested that the above two drugs be included in the CNDS "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (6th Edition)."
该成果发布后，国内阿比多尔和达芦那韦相关企业受到资本市场追捧。
After the release of the results, domestic Abidor and Daruinawa-related enterprises were pursued by the capital markets.
但是该荐药引发行业内质疑，由于其所做仅为体外试验，并且试验中阿比多尔和达芦那韦的有效浓度分别为10-30个微摩尔、300微摩尔，这在人体内很难实现。
However, the recommendation was questioned by the industry as it was only tested in vitro and the tested ECs for abidol and daruinavir were 10-30 mole and 300 mole, respectively, which is difficult to achieve in humans.
按照这个浓度，患者或需服用上万片药物，副作用将远大于疗效。
At this level, patients may need to take tens of thousands of tablets, the side effects will be far greater than the efficacy.
2月15日，李兰娟院士在接受新京报《我们》视频采访时回应关于阿比多尔、达芦那韦的质疑时称，“（阿比多尓、达芦那韦）按照这个（体外试验）浓度才有效果，我们如实地跟专家讨论用，而不是说去推荐这两个药，仅仅是个研究的数据。
Academician Li Lanjuan, responding to questions about Abidor Darunawei in a video interview with the Beijing News on Feb. 15, said: "This [Abidol, Daruinawi] is only effective at this [in vitro test] concentration.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
强生公司：没有证据表明李兰娟推荐的达芦那韦能够用于治疗冠状病毒感染。
Johnson & amp; Johnson: There is no evidence that the drug recommended by Li Lanjuan can be used to treat coronavirus infection.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "强生公司：没有证据表明李兰娟推荐的达芦那韦能够用于治疗冠状病毒感染";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Johnson & amp; Johnson: There is no evidence that Rilan Li's recommended drug is capable of treating coronavirus infection or at least Roundup;;
var msg_desc = "李兰娟院士此前曾建议将阿比多尔、达芦那韦纳入到国家卫健委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》中。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Academician Li Lanjuan had previously recommended that Abidor and Daruanawi be included in the NCHRC's New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 6).
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
