我国已有8种新冠肺炎疫苗进行有效性评价，有望4月份完成临床前研究。
Eight new crown pneumonia vaccines have been evaluated for efficacy in China, and it is hoped that the preclinical study will be completed in April.
梁宙。
Liang Zhouzhou.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：梁宙“ 目前已有8种疫苗在进行有效性评价，部分疫苗的有效性评价工作已经完成。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Liang Zhou" Eight vaccines have been evaluated for effectiveness so far, and the evaluation of the effectiveness of some vaccines has been completed.
”2020年3月17日，国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会，介绍药物疫苗和检测试剂研发攻关最新情况。
On March 17, 2020, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a press conference to update the research and development of drug vaccines and detection reagents.
中国工程院院士王军志透露，我国新冠肺炎疫苗研发在五大技术方向总体进展顺利，大部分研发团队4月份都能完成临床前研究，并逐步启动临床试验。
Wang Junzhi, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, said the research and development of the new crown pneumonia vaccine in China was progressing smoothly in five major technological directions, with most research and development teams completing pre-clinical studies in April and initiating clinical trials.
疫苗成功研发是人类面对重大传染病取得根本性胜利的关键。
The successful development of vaccines is the key to the fundamental victory of mankind against major infectious diseases.
王军志称，全国上下数千名相关领域科学家正在全力以赴，紧紧抓住灭活疫苗、基因工程重组亚单位疫苗、腺病毒载体疫苗、减毒流感病毒载体疫苗和核酸疫苗这五大技术方向，遴选出8个优势团队，确定了九项任务推进。
Wang said that thousands of scientists from all over the country were working hard to concentrate on the five major technical directions of inactivated vaccine, recombinant gene engineering subunit vaccine, adenovirus carrier vaccine, attenuated influenza virus carrier vaccine and nucleic acid vaccine.
王军志表示，截止目前为止，上述五大技术方向疫苗都总体进展顺利，第一批确定的九项任务都已完成临床前研究（也就是动物的有效性、安全性研究）的大部分工作。
So far, Wang says, the five major technology-oriented vaccines have generally worked well, with most of the first nine tasks identified having completed pre-clinical studies (viz. animal efficacy, safety studies).
“已有研发进展比较快的单位向国家药监局滚动递交临床试验申请材料，并且已经开展临床试验方案论证、招募志愿者等相关工作。
"Units that have made rapid progress in research and development have been rolling over clinical trial application materials to the State Administration of Pharmacy and Supervision, and have conducted research on clinical trial protocols and recruitment of volunteers.
”王军志说，待国家药监局按照有关法律法规审批后，即可开始临床试验，我国新冠肺炎疫苗研发进展目前总体上处于国际先进行列，不会慢于国外。
Wang said clinical trials could begin after the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision and Administration approved relevant laws and regulations, and that China's vaccine research and development for the new crown pneumonia vaccine is now among the most advanced in the world and will not lag behind foreign countries.
教育部科技司司长雷朝滋在发布会上介绍，教育部从春节开始就动员有研究优势的厦门大学、四川大学、清华大学、北京大学、复旦大学等高校科研团队，重点从核酸疫苗等三条技术路线并行推进，协同科研院所和相关企业加快开展新冠肺炎疫苗攻关。
Since the Spring Festival, the Ministry of Education has been mobilizing research teams from Xiamen University, Sichuan University, Tsinghua University, Peking University, Fudan University and other universities with research advantages.
其中对于核酸疫苗，雷朝滋表示，这是全世界都在积极探索的疫苗研发新技术，目前全球还没有人用疫苗上市。
With regard to the nucleic acid vaccine, Mr. Lei said it was a new vaccine development technology being actively explored all over the world and no one has yet been marketed with a vaccine.
中国高校利用前期中东呼吸综合症研究中积累的技术和科研成果，加快核酸疫苗研究，将尽快验证安全性和有效性。
Using the technology and scientific research achievements accumulated in the research of Middle East respiratory syndrome, Chinese universities will quicken the research of nucleic acid vaccine, which will verify the safety and validity as soon as possible.
新冠肺炎疫苗研制速度比较快，如何确保疫苗的安全性也是外界关注的焦点之一。
New crown pneumonia vaccine development speed is relatively fast, how to ensure the safety of vaccines is also one of the focus of external attention.
中国医学科学院实验动物研究所研究员秦川表示，我国疫苗研发已充分考虑了安全性和有效性，并严格按照国家法律法规和程序进行，目前已有8种疫苗在中国医学科学院进行有效性评价，部分疫苗的有效性评价工作已经完成。
Qin Chuan, a researcher at the Institute of Experimental Animals at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, said that China's vaccine research and development had taken full account of safety and efficacy and was conducted in strict compliance with national laws, regulations and procedures.
王军志表示，国内外对于疫苗上市应用具有严格的法律法规和技术标准要求。
Wang Junzhi said that domestic and foreign vaccine marketing applications have strict laws and regulations and technical standards requirements.
疫苗进入临床试验必须完成药学方面研究、有效性研究和安全性研究。
When vaccines enter clinical trials, they must complete the research on pharmacology, efficacy and safety.
药学研究方面，主要是建立稳定的生产工艺和质量控制标准，以保证制备出合格的疫苗样品。
In the field of pharmaceutical research, stable production process and quality control standards are established to ensure the preparation of qualified vaccine samples.
对于有效性研究，是指获得疫苗样品后，采用感染动物模型（比如新冠病毒的猴感染模型和鼠感染模型）来评价疫苗免疫原性和保护效果，这个结果可用来推算临床研究的剂量和程序。
For effectiveness studies, vaccine immunogenicity and protective effects are evaluated using animal models of infection (such as the new crown virus monkey infection model and the mouse infection model) after vaccine samples have been obtained, a result that can be used to extrapolate the dose and procedure of clinical studies.
此外，疫苗研发还要进行安全性评价，针对新发传染病至少要进行动物单次给药（急性）毒性和重复性给药（长期毒性）评价。
In addition, vaccine research and development is subject to safety assessments, at least for single (acute) and repetitive administration (long-term toxicity) of animals for emerging infectious diseases.
“总的来说，首先要生产出合格疫苗样品，在动物实验中证明安全有效性后，才能进入临床试验。
"In general, qualified vaccine samples have to be produced first to be proven safe and effective in animal trials before they can enter clinical trials."
”王军志说。
"said Wang Junzhi.
王军志强调，目前，中国疫苗领域的科学家正按照相关法规和技术要求，一方面全力以赴，争分夺秒，一方面坚持按科学规律办事，在保证疫苗安全性和有效性的前提下，加快疫苗研究应用，“我们正在不断地听到他们传来的好消息，这将为全球最终彻底战胜疫情提供坚实的支撑。
"We are constantly hearing good news from them, which will provide solid support for the eventual and complete global fight against the disease," Wang said.
”对于新冠肺炎治疗药物的研究进展，科技部生物中心主任张先民在发布会上表示，针对阻断新冠肺炎轻型、普通型向重型转化，科技攻关组重点推动磷酸氯喹、法匹拉韦和中医药的临床应用。
Zhang Xiumin, director of the Department of Science and Technology's Biological Centre, said in a news conference that the group was focusing on clinical applications of chloroquine phosphate, Fabiravi phosphate and Chinese medicine to block the shift from light to heavy-duty pneumonia.
其中，法匹拉韦已完成临床研究，显示出很好的疗效，“鉴于法匹拉韦安全性好、疗效明确、药品可及，经过科研攻关组组织专家充分论证，已正式向医疗救治组推荐，建议尽快纳入诊疗方案。
Among them, Fabiravir has completed clinical studies and has shown good efficacy. "In view of the safety, clear efficacy and accessibility of Fapillavir, experts from the scientific research team have fully demonstrated that it has been formally recommended to the medical treatment group, suggesting that the diagnosis and treatment plan should be included as soon as possible.
”法匹拉韦是一种RNA聚合酶（RdRp）抑制剂，属于广谱抗流感病毒药物。
Fabiravi, a RNA polymerase (RdRp) inhibitor, is a broad-spectrum antiviral drug.
2014年3月，日本厚生劳动省批准法匹拉韦片上市，主要用于治疗新型和复发型流感。
In March 2014, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan approved the launch of Fabiravi tablets, mainly for the treatment of new and relapsing influenza.
张先民称，在安全性方面，法匹拉韦上市以来未见明显的不良反应。
Zhang said that in terms of safety, Fabirave has not seen any significant adverse reactions since the market.
在治疗新冠肺炎的临床研究中，未发现明显的不良反应。
No significant adverse reactions were found in the clinical study of the treatment of new crown pneumonia.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我国已有8种新冠肺炎疫苗进行有效性评价，有望4月份完成临床前研究。
Eight new crown pneumonia vaccines have been evaluated for efficacy in China, and it is hoped that the preclinical study will be completed in April.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "我国已有8种新冠肺炎疫苗进行有效性评价，有望4月份完成临床前研究";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "目前已有8种疫苗在进行有效性评价，部分疫苗的有效性评价工作已经完成。
var msg _ desc = & quot; eight vaccines are currently being evaluated for efficacy, and some have been evaluated for effectiveness.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
