扣邻国口罩、单方面封边境：当“散装”欧盟遇上新冠危机。
Buttressing neighbouring countries "masks and unilaterally sealing borders: when the" loose "EU faces a new crown crisis.
钱伯彦。
Mr Chamberlain.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图虫特约作者：钱伯彦“ 多边协商与交流曾是欧盟立足于充满矛盾的世界上的最大招牌，但在大难临头之际这块招牌却不见了。
"Multilateral consultation and exchange used to be the EU's biggest trademark in a world full of contradictions, but the sign disappeared in the face of disaster.
”一方面是搭载着31吨医疗物资和医护人员的外援飞机降落在意大利罗马菲乌米奇诺机场，另一方面则是同为欧盟成员国的德国因医疗用品禁令下令扣压了83万只从海外购买的口罩。
On the one hand, foreign aid planes carrying 31 tons of medical supplies and staff landed at Italy's Fiumicino airport, while on the other hand, Germany, a fellow EU member state, ordered the seizure of 830,000 masks purchased from abroad in response to a ban on medical supplies.
这正是饱受新冠疫情冲击的意大利处境的真实写照。
This is exactly what happened in Italy, which has been hit by the new crown.
北部的疫情重灾区医疗系统接近崩溃，总理孔特已经宣布封锁边境并关闭全国除药店、超市等所有商铺。
The health-care system in the north is on the verge of collapse and Prime Minister Conte has announced a border closure and the closure of all shops except pharmacies and supermarkets across the country.
而作为“中央政府”的欧盟以及欧盟成员国迄今为止给予意大利的帮助却了无踪影。
And the EU, as the "central government," and its member states have so far given Italy little help.
这并不是意大利人第一次感到被欧盟抛弃。
This is not the first time Italians feel abandoned by the EU.
早在之前的利比亚难民危机时，地中海上的难民黑船以及来自德国和北欧国家的志愿者们将大批难民送至意大利。
As early as the previous Libyan refugee crisis, black ships of refugees from the Mediterranean and volunteers from Germany and Nordic countries sent large numbers of refugees to Italy.
意大利既没有像土耳其那样拿到欧盟60亿欧元的难民基金，在时任副总理萨尔维尼于去年夏季对难民船宣布关闭所有港口之后，意大利又沦为了欧盟诸国口诛笔伐的对象。
Italy, which has neither a €6 billion refugee fund like Turkey's, came under fire from the European Union after then-Deputy Prime Minister Salvigny announced the closure of all ports to refugee ships last summer.
意大利的遭遇只是“散装”欧盟的一个注脚。
The Italian debacle is only a footnote to the "loose" EU.
从2010年的欧债危机到2015年的难民危机，再到2016年的英国脱欧，短短十年之内欧盟这个准联邦国家就连续三次遭遇了凝聚力大幅下滑、甚至联盟解体的严峻挑战，而现在的新冠病毒或许就是欧盟的又一大危机。
From the European debt crisis in 2010, to the refugee crisis in 2015, to Brexit in 2016, the quasi-federal state of the European Union has faced three consecutive serious challenges to cohesion, or even union disintegration, in just a decade, and the new crown virus may now be just another EU crisis.
是像欧债危机时那样团结一致地对抗疫情，又或者是像难民危机时那样各自为战？迄今为止，似乎欧盟各国选择了后者。
Is it a united fight against the epidemic, as in the case of the European debt crisis, or, as in the case of the refugee crisis, separately? So far, it seems, EU countries have opted for the latter.
除了像德国一样扣下紧缺的医疗物资之外，作为意大利邻国的奥地利和斯洛文尼亚也同样在第一时间对补刀，率先在未及时通知意大利的情况下，宣布单方面对意大利封锁边境。
In addition to withholding scarce medical supplies, as in Germany, Austria and Slovenia, Italy's neighbors, have also been the first countries to close their borders unilaterally to Italy without timely notification.
“这绝不是欧洲团结的象征！”意大利驻欧大使马萨里（Maurizio Massari）就公开指责面对意大利向欧盟成员国发出的援助医疗物资的请求，无一国响应。
"This is not a symbol of European solidarity!" Italy's ambassador to Europe, Maurizio Massari, has publicly accused Italy of responding to requests for medical aid from Italy to EU member states.
据《每日镜报》援引布鲁塞尔内部的消息称，欧盟层面统筹医疗物资的谈判如此艰难的关键依然是抢口罩的德国人。
The Daily Mirror quoted sources inside Brussels as saying that the key to EU-level negotiations to co-ordinate medical supplies remained the Germans, who were fighting masks.
“单方面的行动只会引发欧盟内部的多米诺骨牌效应，并影响医疗物资及时交到病人和医院手上，”即使是德国籍的欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩也不点名地批评了祖国。
"Unilateral action will only trigger a domino effect within the EU and affect the timely delivery of medical supplies to patients and hospitals," even German Commission President von der Lehn unnamed criticized his country.
在一份欧盟公告中，欧委会也正式警告道，如果有成员国故意限制医疗物资或药品的运输，将会面临法律后果。
In an EU announcement, the commission also formally warned of legal consequences if member states deliberately restrict the transport of medical supplies or medicines.
在被公开批评并成为众矢之的后，德国政府已于13日宣布改变政策，放松对医疗物资的出口禁令，允许对欧盟伙伴的过境物资予以放行。
After public criticism and criticism, the German government on the 13th announced a change in policy, easing the ban on exports of medical supplies and allowing the release of goods in transit to EU partners.
德国经济部特别强调，保护德国人民的安全以及维护特殊时期的欧洲团结都是该部门的首要目标。
The German Ministry of Economy has placed special emphasis on the protection of the security of the German people and the preservation of European solidarity in special periods as the primary objectives of the sector.
德国的医疗物资出口禁令出台于3月4日，之前还曾扣押过瑞士购买的24万只口罩以及奥地利的一批物资。
Germany's ban on exports of medical supplies came on March 4 after seizing 240,000 Swiss-bought masks and an Austrian consignment.
当时面对欧洲同行抨击的德国卫生部长施潘曾将皮球直接踢给欧盟：“只要欧盟不出台全欧盟通用的出口禁令，我们的禁令就是合理的。
German Health Minister Wolfgang Stöpp, who faced criticism from his European counterparts at the time, kicked the ball straight to the EU: "Our ban is justified as long as the EU does not have a common EU-wide export ban."
”不过，德国并不是唯一一个“自私自利”的欧盟国家。
But Germany is not the only EU country that is "selfish."
之前法国就宣布将征用所有库存口罩归政府所有，之后捷克也同样宣布立即跟进并实行医疗物资出口禁令。
France had previously announced that it would expropriate all its stocks of masks, followed by the Czech Republic's immediate follow-up and ban on the export of medical supplies.
所有欧洲国家都清楚，如果无法迅速控制本国的疫情，那么该国可能一周之后就将是今日的意大利，因此尽可能地囤积口罩是无奈之举。
All European countries know that if they do not manage their epidemics quickly, they may be Italy today in a week, so hoarding masks as much as possible is a last resort.
捷克卫生部长福尔切（Adam Vojtech）就曾在欧盟卫生部长会议上表示：“我们有着和意大利一样的问题，那就是医疗物资的需求远大于供给。
As Czech Health Minister Adam Vojtech said at a meeting of EU health ministers: "We have the same problem as Italy, where demand for medical supplies far exceeds supply.
如果物资富裕，我们可能会支援意大利。
If the material resources are rich, we may support Italy.
”而当时捷克全国确诊病例仅为12例，意大利确诊已经超过4000例。
There were only 12 confirmed cases in the Czech Republic and more than 4,000 in Italy.
如今，捷克确诊病例数已经达到344例。
Today, the number of confirmed cases in the Czech Republic has reached 344.
至于奥地利和斯洛文尼亚率先对意大利翻脸的封锁边境问题，与目前每天在奥地利意大利边境布伦纳山口绵延数公里的待通关车流形成对比的是，3月6日在布鲁塞尔举行的欧盟卫生部长会议。
As for the border closures that Austria and Slovenia have pioneered against Italy, the meeting of EU health ministers held in Brussels on 6 March contrasted with the daily flow of cars awaiting clearance in the Brenna Pass on the Austrian-Italian border.
虽然那场会议开了4小时，比以往部长级会议时长延长了近一倍，但各国依然未能就任何具体的措施达成一致。
Although that meeting lasted four hours, almost double the length of previous ministerial meetings, States were still unable to agree on any concrete measures.
各国唯一的共识仅是宣布将确保欧盟内部市场的人员流通，明确不封锁边境。
The only consensus is to declare that it will ensure the flow of people on the EU's internal market, with no explicit border closures.
奥地利卫生部长安朔尔布（Rudolf Anschober）更是高调宣布：“（另一个共识）就是对意大利的团结互助（承诺）不仅仅是修辞意义上的。
Austrian Health Minister Rudolf Anschober went so far as to proclaim: "[Another consensus] is that solidarity with Italy is not merely rhetorical."
”讽刺的是，随着一个星期以来欧洲疫情的急剧恶化、16日欧盟宣布封锁全欧盟边境，以及各国对意大利的袖手旁观，3月4日会议仅有的共识也全部破产。
Ironically, with the sharp deterioration of the epidemic in Europe over the past week, the EU's 16-day blockade of the entire EU border, and countries "inaction on Italy, the only consensus reached at the March 4 meeting has all but collapsed.
欧委会主席冯德莱恩在3月13日就明确反对各国单方面封锁边境，并担忧此举对边境地区居民造成的影响。
On March 13, European Commission President von der Leyne made clear his opposition to unilateral border closures and expressed concern about the impact this would have on people living in border areas.
冯德莱恩希望各成员国优先考虑在边境上设置体温检测点等柔性措施而非一刀切的封锁举措。
Mr von der Lein wants member states to prioritize soft measures such as temperature detection at borders rather than a one-size-fits-all blockade.
欧委会内政专员约翰森（Ylva Johansson）也要求各国在封锁边境之前至少需要及时知会邻国。
Ylva Johansson, the European Commission's commissioner for home affairs, also demanded that countries notify their neighbors at least in time before closing their borders.
但事实上，各国的封锁边境行动不仅不会及时知会邻国和欧盟总部，各国进入紧急状态的动向也同样不会及时通知邻国。
But, in fact, not only do states "border closures not inform their neighbors and EU headquarters in time, but so do states" movements toward states of emergency.
此前在3月14日夜间，法国总理菲利普就无预警地宣布法国进入流行病第三阶段，所有非必需品商店全部关闭。
Earlier, on the night of March 14, French Prime Minister Philippe announced, without warning, that France was entering the third phase of the epidemic, with all non-essential stores closed.
一时之间导致大量阿尔萨斯和洛林地区的法国人涌入德国抢购商品。
This led, for a while, to a huge influx of Alsace and Lorraine Frenchmen rushing into Germany to buy goods.
阿尔萨斯和洛林的居民以德语为主要日常语言，出入两国边境十分频繁，但与法国毗邻的德国巴符州却是德国三大疫情高发州之一。
The inhabitants of Alsace and Lorraine use German as their main daily language, with frequent border crossings between the two countries, but the German state of BW, bordering France, is one of Germany's three most affected states.
多边协商与交流曾是欧盟立足于充满矛盾的世界上的最大招牌，但如今在大难临头之际这块招牌却不见了。
Multilateral consultation and exchange used to be the EU's biggest label in a world of contradictions, but it is now missing in the face of disaster.
一种辩解是，欧盟的跨国家机能主要体现在贸易经济等领域。
One argument is that the EU's cross-country functions are mainly in areas such as the trade economy.
在欧盟条约中明确规定，卫生政策归各国自行处理，这才导致各国在处理疫情时各自为战。
It is clear from EU treaties that health policies are left to the discretion of individual countries, which leads to fragmented responses to the epidemic.
不过即便是在欧盟最驾轻就熟的财政问题上，布鲁塞尔也没有为罗马提供太多帮助。
But Brussels has done little to help Rome, even on the EU's most adept fiscal problems.
意大利总理孔特已在上周宣布将投入250亿欧元确保该国经济不至崩溃，并为停工企业和员工提供资助。
Last week, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte announced a €25 billion investment to keep the country's economy from collapsing and to subsidise shutdown businesses and workers.
但受限于羸弱的财政状况，意大利政府不仅无力推出之前孔特希望的750亿欧元一揽子计划，甚至连缩水的250亿欧元中的一半也需要欧盟帮助。
But, constrained by a weak fiscal position, the Italian government will not only be unable to deliver the €75 billion ($75 billion) package that Conte had hoped for, but will need EU help even for half of the €25 billion that has shrunk.
虽然欧盟第一时间就宣布放松对意大利的财政纪律，并成立了250亿欧元的欧盟专项基金（EU Corona Fonds）。
Although the European Union first announced a relaxation of fiscal discipline in Italy, it created a €25 billion European Union-specific fund (EU Corona Fonds).
但该数字与财大气粗的德国经济部在上周五宣布将为德国企业提供4600亿欧元的担保相比，并不值一提。
But that figure is nothing compared to the €460 billion ($381 billion) guarantee the German economy announced Friday.
此外，意大利的利空消息还来自于欧洲央行。
Moreover, Italy's bad news comes from the European Central Bank.
3月12日，在欧洲央行行长拉加德宣布维持基础利率不变的同时，又暗示为成员国降低利息开支并不是欧洲央行的任务。
On March 12, while ECB President Christine Lagarde announced that the base rate would remain unchanged, she hinted that it was not the ECB's job to reduce interest costs for member states.
该表态一度导致意大利国债利率上浮100个基点。
The announcement led to a 100 basis point rise in interest rates on Italian government bonds.
或许是意识到在疫情面前，欧盟有滑向散架的趋势，冯德莱恩以及欧洲理事会主席米歇尔将在周二连线欧盟27国领导，敦促各国在物资运输上全面开放边境，确保各国已被抢购一空的货架的基本物资供应，同时尽力确保各国之间的医疗物资将根据疫情严峻程度得到合理分配。
Perhaps realizing that the EU is slipping toward disintegration in the face of the epidemic, von der Lehn and European Council President Michel will join the EU's 27 leaders on Tuesday to press for the full opening of borders for the transport of goods, to ensure the basic supplies of looted shelves and to ensure that medical supplies are distributed fairly among countries according to the severity of the epidemic.
问题则在于，确诊7461例的德国和确诊6633例的法国，还有余力拯救意大利甚至是西班牙吗？未经授权 禁止转载。
The question is whether Germany, with 7,461 cases, and France, with 6,633 confirmed cases, has the spare capacity to save Italy or even Spain? Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
扣邻国口罩、单方面封边境：当“散装”欧盟遇上新冠危机。
Buttressing neighbouring countries "masks and unilaterally sealing borders: when the" loose "EU faces a new crown crisis.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "扣邻国口罩、单方面封边境：当“散装”欧盟遇上新冠危机";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; when the EU was "loose."
var msg_desc = "多边协商与交流曾是欧盟立足于充满矛盾的世界上的最大招牌，但在大难临头之际这块招牌却不见了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; multilateral consultation and exchange used to be the EU's biggest trademark in a world full of contradictions, but the sign disappeared when the disaster struck.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
