宝莱坞停工、泰姬陵关闭，13亿人口的印度疫情怎么样了？。
What about the Bollywood shutdown and the closure of the Taj Mahal, with its 1.3 billion-strong population?
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter记者：安晶“ 由于部分医院和隔离设施卫生状况堪忧，印度已发生多起从隔离点逃跑的事件。
Source: Twitter: Anjing "India has seen many cases of escape from quarantine sites due to poor hygiene in some hospitals and isolation facilities."
至于为何印度尚未出现大面积感染，有医疗人士指出两种可能的原因。
As to why India has not yet had widespread infection, some medical practitioners point to two possible causes.
”禁止欧盟国家乘客入境、孟买全市学校关闭、“宝莱坞”停工、泰姬陵关门。
Passengers from EU countries are banned, schools are closed across Mumbai, Bollywood stops and the Taj Mahal closes.
尚未受新冠疫情严重影响的人口大国印度也开始加强措施，预防疫情扩散。
India, a populous nation not yet seriously affected by the new crown, has also stepped up measures to prevent the spread of the outbreak.
截至3月17日，印度累计确诊病例125例，三例病亡。
As of March 17, India has a cumulative total of 125 confirmed cases and three deaths.
其中大部分病例为输入型病例。
The majority of these cases were imported.
虽然确诊病例人数不多，但自疫情出现以来，印度各地多次出现隔离人员逃跑的情况。
Although the number of confirmed cases is low, there have been several cases of isolated escapes across India since the outbreak.
至于为何逃跑，有民众抱怨是因为隔离医院的卫生环境太糟糕。
As for the reasons for the escape, there were complaints about the poor sanitary conditions in the isolated hospitals.
据Deadline新闻网报道，印度各大电影制作团体已于周一共同协商，同意从3月19日到31日暂停所有电影、电视剧和网剧制作，以减缓新冠疫情扩散。
Indian film-making groups agreed on Monday to suspend all film, television and drama production from March 19 to 31 to slow the spread of the new crown, Deadline reported.
印度影视制片方协会发布的声明指出，目前已经在印度本国和海外开工的剧组有三天时间收尾停工。
A statement released by the Indian Film Studios Association says the studios, which are already working in India and overseas, have three days to wind down.
至于何时再开工，各制作团体将于本月30日讨论。
As for when to start again, the production groups will discuss it on the 30th of this month.
印度宝莱坞每年上映超过1000部影片。
More than 1,000 films are shown annually in Bollywood.
去年前三季度，印度电影票房收入增至近380亿卢比（约合人民币35亿元），高于2018年同期。
In the first three quarters of last year, box office revenue rose to nearly 38 billion rupees (3.5 billion yuan), up from the same period in 2018.
目前，印度各地的电影院已经暂停营业，停业将持续到本月30日。
Cinemas across India have been suspended from operation until the 30th of this month.
除宝莱坞关门之外，印度著名景点泰姬陵以及多地的博物馆、石窟、庙宇都将关闭至31日。
In addition to Bollywood closures, India's famous Taj Mahal, as well as a number of museums, grottos, temples will be closed until the 31st.
英国《金融时报》称，这是泰姬陵1971年以来首次对游客关闭，而50年前是因为印巴战争。
The Financial Times said it was the first time the Taj Mahal had been closed to visitors since 1971, after the India-Pakistan war 50 years ago.
据印度旅游部数据，2018年有近650万游客前往泰姬陵游览。
Nearly 6.5 million people visited the Taj Mahal in 2018, according to the Ministry of Tourism.
同样在周一，印度政府还宣布扩大旅行限制，禁止来自欧盟、土耳其、英国和欧洲自由贸易联盟国家的非印度籍乘客入境。
Also Monday, India's government extended travel restrictions to include non-Indian passengers from the European Union, Turkey, Britain and the European Free Trade Association.
来自阿联酋、卡塔尔、阿曼和科威特的乘客必须进行14天隔离。
Passengers from the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait had to be quarantined for 14 days.
此前，印度已经禁止来自中国、意大利、伊朗、韩国、法国、西班牙和德国的乘客入境。
India has previously banned passengers from China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, France, Spain and Germany.
印度与孟加拉和缅甸的大部分边境站点已经关闭。
Most of India's border posts with Bangladesh and Myanmar have been closed.
在出现病例的15个邦和联邦属地中，印度西部马哈拉施特拉邦是确诊人数最多的邦，共有39人确诊。
The state of Maharashtra in western India has the highest number of confirmed cases among the 15 states and territories with a total of 39 confirmed cases.
马哈拉施特拉邦已经宣布关闭所有学校、商场和健身房，并禁止大型集会直至31日。
Maharashtra has announced the closure of all schools, shopping malls and gymnasiums and a ban on large gatherings until 31 December.
首府孟买还于周一要求当地医院和机场检疫人员在需接受隔离的人员手上用不褪色墨水印上“居家隔离”标识，并标出相关人员结束隔离的具体日期。
The capital, Bombay, on Monday asked local hospitals and airport quarantine officials to mark the homes with indelible ink on quarantined people and mark a date when the person will end the isolation.
至于为何拥有13亿人口的印度尚未出现大面积感染，《纽约时报》援引医疗人士的推测指出，可能是因为很多病例没有被检测出来，也有可能是因为印度从一开始采取了严格的追踪隔离措施。
As to why India, with a population of 1.3 billion, has yet to develop widespread infection, the New York Times quotes medical experts as suggesting that it may be that many cases go undetected or that India has adopted strict quarantine measures from the start.
据《印度快报》报道，2月底，南部喀拉拉邦的一家人从意大利返回印度，但隐瞒了前往意大利的旅行史，后被确诊感染。
A family from the southern state of Kerala returned to India from Italy at the end of February, but was later diagnosed with the infection after concealing a travel history to Italy, the Indian Express reported.
为了追踪这家人返回喀拉拉邦后的行踪，当地政府通过GPS定位、监控视频、社区调查等各种手段，发现这家人曾到过餐馆、银行、邮局、教堂等多个人群聚集地，最终隔离了近900名密切接触者。
To track the family's whereabouts on their return to Kerala, local authorities used GPS positioning, surveillance videos, community surveys and other means to discover that the family had traveled to various locations such as restaurants, banks, post offices and churches, ultimately isolating nearly 900 close contacts.
同样在喀拉拉邦，1月底，一名从武汉返回印度的留学生确诊感染，成为印度的首例确诊病例。
Also in Kerala, in late January, a student returning to India from Wuhan confirmed the infection as the first confirmed case in India.
随后，该邦又出现了两例确诊。
Subsequently, two more cases were diagnosed in the state.
喀拉拉邦随即宣布进入紧急状态并隔离了3000多人。
Kerala immediately declared a state of emergency and quarantined more than 3,000 people.
由于行动及时，人口超过3300万的喀拉拉邦目前仅有22例确诊病例，其中三人治愈。
Due to timely action, Kerala, with a population of over 33 million, currently has only 22 confirmed cases, three of which have been cured.
虽然采取了严格的隔离措施，但由于部分医院和隔离设施的卫生状况堪忧，印度已经发生了多起从隔离点逃跑的事件。
Despite strict isolation measures, there have been a number of incidents of escape from quarantine sites in India due to health concerns in some hospitals and isolation facilities.
周一，孟买郊区一所医院的11名隔离人员逃跑，引发了警方大搜捕。
On Monday, 11 people in a Mumbai suburb hospital escaped, triggering a wave of police raids.
此前，北方邦阿格拉一对夫妇从欧洲返回印度，丈夫于上周被确诊感染，其妻却被控从隔离点逃跑。
Earlier, a couple from Agra, Uttar Pradesh, returned to India from Europe after their husband was diagnosed with infection last week, but his wife was charged with escaping from the quarantine.
随后，女子的家人发声明指出，女子并非拒绝隔离，已经按要求前往医院，“但厕所的极度不卫生让她几欲作呕，我们有照片为证”。
The woman's family then issued a statement saying that the woman had not refused isolation and had been asked to go to the hospital, "but the extreme unsanitary nature of the toilet made her nauseous, as we have photographs to prove."
上周，孟买的一名网友也在Twitter发文抱怨，称自己的朋友正在当地一家医院隔离观察，但医院的卫生环境糟糕，“无法帮助控制疫情”。
Last week, a Mumbai netizen posted a Twitter complaint, saying his friend was being quarantined at a local hospital, but the hospital's hygiene conditions were poor and "unable to help contain the outbreak."
图片来源：Twitter2019年，印度在医疗卫生的公共支出仅占GDP的1.28%，比例甚至低于尼泊尔、斯里兰卡和岛国东帝汶。
Source: Twit2019, India's public spending on health care was just 1.28% of GDP, lower than in Nepal, Sri Lanka, and the island state of Timor-Leste.
印度政府承诺，到2025年，将把医疗卫生的公共支出提升至占GDP的2.5%。
The government has pledged to increase public spending on health to 2.5% of GDP by 2025.
根据世卫组织的数据，中低收入国家平均每年在医疗卫生的支出占GDP的6%。
According to WHO, low- and middle-income countries spend an average of 6 per cent of GDP on health care each year.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
宝莱坞停工、泰姬陵关闭，13亿人口的印度疫情怎么样了？。
What about the Bollywood shutdown and the closure of the Taj Mahal, with its 1.3 billion-strong population?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "宝莱坞停工、泰姬陵关闭，13亿人口的印度疫情怎么样了？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What about Bollywood, the closure of the Taj Mahal, or the 1.3 billion-strong Indian epidemic?;
var msg_desc = "由于部分医院和隔离设施卫生状况堪忧，印度已发生多起从隔离点逃跑的事件。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; India has had a number of escapes from quarantine sites because of concerns about the sanitary condition of some hospitals and isolation facilities.
至于为何印度尚未出现大面积感染，有医疗人士指出两种可能的原因。
As to why India has not yet had widespread infection, some medical practitioners point to two possible causes.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
