三万武汉医护人员的理发师。
30000 Wuhan medical staff barber.
杨溪。
Yangxi.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
口述：Johnny采访、文 ：杨溪“ 我们的目的和初衷是希望在安全的情况下，尽可能保留医护人员漂亮的一面。
Oral: Johnny Interview, Wen: Yang Stream "Our goal and intention was to preserve the beauty of the healthcare personnel as much as possible in a safe environment.
很多医护人员中途就又打电话联系我，说上次头发剪完了想再修一修，我就回去再帮他们重新设计，修剪一下。
A lot of paramedics called me on the way, saying that the last time I had a haircut and wanted to fix it, I went back to help them redesign it and trim it.
他们说已经看到希望了，可能不需要多长的时间就可以回家了。
They said they had seen hope and it might not be long before they could go home.
”1我是武汉的一名发型师，今天（3月12日）早上8点半，我开车接上两个伙伴，一小时后赶到了河北援汉医疗队入驻的酒店。
I am a hairstylist in Wuhan. Today, March 12, at 8: 30 a.m., I picked up two partners in my car and arrived at the hotel where the Hebei Medical Team was staying an hour later.
这是我们第三次来这家酒店。
This is our third visit to the hotel.
江岸方舱医院休舱以后，河北医疗队就在酒店原地待命休整。
After the river bank cabin hospital shuts down, Hebei medical team stands by in the hotel to rest.
很多医护人员之前剪完头发觉得不太好看，想重新修剪一下，还有些是之前没有剪上的，头发很长了，就约我们过去。
Many health care workers before cut hair feel not good to see, want to trim again, and some are not cut before, long hair, just ask us to go over.
我到那一看，很多人的头发都乱七八糟的。
When I got there, a lot of people's hair was in a mess.
我说你这头发是自己剪的？有的说是科室的护士剪的，有的说是科室的医生剪的。
I said you had your hair cut by yourself? Some said it was cut by the office nurse, some said it was cut by the office doctor.
当时要进舱了嘛，找不到理发师，他们就互相剪头发，拿手术剪刀剪，或者找酒店借剃须刀剃，一个个都跟电影里的癞子头一样。
It was time to go into the cabin. If they couldn't find a barber, they would cut each other's hair, cut with surgical scissors, or borrow a shave from a shave shop.
我们三个人花了一个上午，修剪了30多人。
The three of us spent the morning trimming more than 30 people.
下午去了另外一家酒店，那里住着河北医疗队其余一部分医护人员，还有安徽医疗队，又剪了70多人，一直忙到晚上七点钟左右。
In the afternoon, I went to another hotel, where the rest of the medical staff of Hebei Medical Team and Anhui Medical Team lost more than 70 people.
一天剪下来的头发，我没有统计过，少说也有十几斤吧，堆起来大概有大号垃圾桶的半桶那么多。
A day cut out of the hair, I have no statistics, at least a dozen jin bar, stacked up about half a bucket of large garbage can.
我是2月15日加入志愿者团队的，印象特别深，那天下着大雪，整个城市灰蒙蒙的，也没有人，很荒凉，就像电影《流浪地球》里的场景一样。
I was particularly impressed when I joined the volunteer corps on February 15th, when it was snowing heavily, and the city was gray and deserted, just like the scene in the movie Vagrant Earth.
我们前期接的都是援汉医疗队，因为考虑到他们当时比较安全。
We picked up medical teams early on because they were safer.
那一个星期每天都有差不多一两千人的医疗队到武汉来，我记得很清楚，第一天服务的是海南医疗队和陕西医疗队，医护人员加起来有200人左右，我们七、八个理发师从早上八点多一直剪到凌晨一点半。
I remember clearly that the first day of service was the Hainan Medical Team and the Shaanxi Medical Team, with a combined staff of about 200, and seven or eight of our hairdressers had their hair cut from more than eight in the morning to half past one in the morning.
因为很多人凌晨就要进光谷方舱医院接诊病人了，所以我们必须要在那之前帮他们把头发打理好。
Because a lot of people are going to the Gwanggu Fang Hospital in the wee hours, we have to get their hair in order before then.
理发师也要穿防护服，戴口罩和手套。
Hairdressers should also wear protective clothing, masks and gloves.
刚开始我特别不习惯，还提过意见，说我们没有必要穿防护服，这些东西应该留给医护人员，他们更需要。
I wasn't used to it at first, and I made the point that we didn't have to wear protective clothing. It should be left to the paramedics, who needed it more.
但是负责协调的志愿者说，医疗队过来时很健康，可我们不能保证现场的志愿者的情况，所以穿防护服既是保护我们自己，也是保护他们。
But the volunteers in charge of coordination said the team came healthy, but we couldn't guarantee the condition of the volunteers, so wearing protective clothing was both for our own protection and theirs.
我就接受了。
I accepted it.
其实我当时只是心疼，因为那会儿物资不是特别充足嘛，我们又都是在家隔离了20多天的人，我想既然大家都是健康的，是不是没有必要穿防护服。
In fact, I was just distressed, because the material is not particularly adequate at that time, we are also isolated at home for more than 20 days, I think since everyone is healthy, is not necessary to wear protective clothing.
戴着手套剪头发，经常就把手套剪破了，因为你不知道那个手感，抓头发都抓不准。
Wear gloves to cut hair, often cut gloves, because you do not know the feel of the hand, grasp the hair can not grasp.
所以刚开始的一段时间，我们剪的头发不能叫好看，只能说帮他们解决问题，边上剃掉，短，打薄，让他们好洗，好干，不被感染。
So at the beginning of the period, we can not call hair good-looking, can only say to help them solve the problem, shaved off, short, thin, so that they easy to wash, dry, not infected.
平时我们剪一个头发都要半个小时、一个小时，这时候真的就是5到10分钟一个人，最夸张的一天我差不多剪了80多人。
Usually we cut a hair half an hour, an hour, this is really 5 to 10 minutes a person, the most exaggerated day I almost cut more than 80 people.
以前一天接待的顾客也就是6到8个人，最多10个人，就觉得很忙了。
With six to eight people, or up to 10 people, who were served the previous day, it was a hectic day.
可那一天下来，虽然也觉得有点累，却没有平时那种乏力的感觉。
But that day down, although also feel a little tired, but not usually that kind of weak feeling.
可能还是有点应激反应吧，亢奋，就觉得我在做一件很崇高的事情。
Maybe I'm still a little excited, hyperactive, I think I am doing a very noble thing.
理发师们在做准备全副武装的理发师们理发师们正在工作酒店里到处都是头发Johnny和医护人员2决定做这件事，还是跟我之前的一位邻居有关。
Hairdressers are preparing heavily armed barbers. Hairdressers are everywhere in the work hotel. Johnny and the paramedics have decided to do it, or have something to do with a neighbor before me.
2月13日，她给我打电话，问我在不在武汉，能不能帮她理个发。
Feb. 13, she called me to ask me if I was in Wuhan, can you help her hair?
她是儿童医院五官科的护士，要去雷神山执行任务了。
She's a nurse in the Children's Hospital. She's on a mission to Raytheon Hill.
电话里她有一点哽咽。
She had a lump in her telephone.
我们以前是邻居，很巧的是，通常她下班我去上班，我下班她去上班，很多时候就是在楼梯的走道碰上了，打个招呼。
We used to be neighbors, but as it happens, she usually comes to work after work, and she goes to work after work, and a lot of times she bumps into me in the hallway of the stairs to say hello.
她跟我老婆接触得多一些，她儿子跟我儿子差不多大，之前天天在一起玩。
She has more contact with my wife, her son is about the same age as my son and used to play together every day.
当时她给我打这个电话，还说不敢回家剪，不想让儿子看到。
She called me and said she didn't want to go home and cut it for my son.
她也不敢让我去医院，怕对我不好。
She didn't dare let me go to the hospital for fear of doing me harm.
后来她老公来接我，去她妈妈家里剪。
Then her husband came to pick me up and went to her mother's house to have it cut.
路上她老公就说，接到任务时她确实哭了，因为恐惧。
On the way her husband said she did cry because of fear when she got the assignment.
再加上要把头发剪短，女孩子嘛，还是会不舍得。
And to cut short hair, girls, or will not be willing to.
见面以后，我问她头发要怎么剪。
After we met, I asked her how she wanted her hair cut.
她说能不能剪一个女式的平头？我当时就很震惊，我说女式平头，没有听说过这个词，为什么要剪平头呢？她说我们去那边很危险，不知道去了会是什么样，为了避免被感染到，手术帽盖住的地方不能有头发冒出来，两边都得剃掉。
She said she could cut a flat woman's head? I was shocked, I said flat-headed woman, I did not hear the word, why cut flat headShe said we would go there dangerous, do not know how to go, in order to avoid infection, the surgical cap covering the place can not have hair out, both sides have to shave off.
所以她就想到了平头。
So she thought of a flat head.
当时我心里特别难受，一个很爱美的女孩子突然说要剪平头，那种感觉你没有办法体会。
At that time, I was very sad, a very beautiful girl suddenly said to cut flat head, that feeling you can not understand.
她原本的发型是比较时尚的中长发，烫过的。
Her original hair style is more stylish medium-long hair, scald.
我就想怎么能尽量让她漂亮一点，建议她两边剃掉就可以了，上面的可以保留。
I just want to make her as beautiful as possible, suggesting that she can shave off both sides, the upper can be retained.
她说那是一个什么样子的发型呢？我说你见过邓紫棋那个发型吗，两边都推掉，上面留一层，也很帅气的。
What kind of hairstyle did she say it was? I said you saw that DengZiqi hairstyle, pushed off both sides, left a layer above, also very handsome.
我帮她把头发梳了梳，上面那个地方扎了一个辫子。
I helped her comb her hair, and there was a braid in the top place.
她头发特别多，又很硬，不是很好扎，我扎了半天，把下面怕感染的地方剃掉，又把上面那一层的长度剪到肩膀，方便她以后扎辫子。
Her hair is very much, very hard, not very good piercing, I dug for a long time, the bottom afraid of infection shaved off, and the upper layer of length cut to the shoulder, so that she can later braid.
剪完之后她照了照镜子，觉得还可以，说就先这样吧。
After she finished cutting, she looked in the mirror and thought it was OK.
后来，这款发型成了继光头之后，一线女医护理得最多的发型。
Later, the hairstyle became the haircut most worn by first-line female doctors after shaving their heads.
其实剃光头反而摩擦力不够，口罩、帽子戴不住，容易跑。
In fact shaving head is not enough friction, masks, hats can not wear, easy to run.
相反那个发型既减少了感染的风险，也好洗，她们每天都要洗头发嘛，休息时间又不够，这样剪完之后也能洗得快一点好去休息。
On the contrary, it reduces both the risk of infection and washing. They have to wash their hair every day. They don't have enough rest time.
疫情结束之后，她们还能漂亮一点。
They'll still be pretty after the outbreak.
在这之前，我也看到了抖音上面有医护人员剃光头眼泪哗哗流的视频，当时对我的触动还没有那么大。
Before that, I had also seen a video of medical staff shaving their heads and tears on the tremolo, which had not touched me that much at the time.
但是，当这件事发生在认识的人身上，对我的触动就特别大了，我就说我一定要去做这件事情。
But when it happened to someone I knew, it touched me so much that I said I had to do it.
2月13日接到她的电话帮她理了发，第二天情人节，我没有出去。
February 13 received her phone call to help her hair, the next Valentine's Day, I did not go out.
当时也在想，出去就要冒很大的风险，家里还有孩子，有点下不了决心。
At the time, I was thinking that going out was very risky. I had children at home and I couldn't make up my mind.
我爱人以前也是做护士的，她其实蛮能体谅，后来我们沟通了一下，她就说你去吧。
My wife used to be a nurse, she was quite considerate, and then we talked, she said you go.
Johnny在为女医护理发理发后的女医护3刚开始的时候，蛮多女孩子剪着剪着就哭了。
Johnny began to cry when she cut a haircut for a woman. 3 At the beginning, quite a few girls snipped and began to cry.
说实话我是一个比较感性的人，看到这些场景往往会忍不住。
To tell you the truth, I am a more emotional person, see these scenes often can not help but.
我印象特别深，佛山医疗队的一个女孩子，头发是到大腿的长度。
I was particularly impressed by a girl from Foshan Medical Team whose hair was up to the length of her thighs.
她是汉服爱好者，家里有几十套汉服，平时特别爱美，喜欢把头发编成各种复古的造型，穿汉服出去拍照。
She is a lover of Chinese clothes, there are dozens of sets of Chinese clothes, usually love the United States, like to weave the hair into a variety of retro-style, wear Han clothes out to take photos.
那天剪头发，她说第一刀一定要她自己剪，不然舍不得。
Haircut that day, she said the first knife must be cut by her own, otherwise reluctant to give up.
她没有说这个头发留了多少年，但是我能够初步判断至少是10年以上。
She didn't say how many years the hair remained, but I was able to judge for at least 10 years.
她剪那一刀的时候，毫不夸张地形容，就跟电影里面自己割肉的感觉是一样的，眼泪哗哗往下掉，整个人都在发抖。
When she cut the knife, it was no exaggeration to say that it was like cutting her own flesh in the movie. Tears went down and the whole body was shaking.
她那一刀剪完，我就安慰她嘛，我说其实也不是非要剪得那么光。
I comforted her when she finished cutting that one, and I said it wasn't necessary to cut it so well.
我尽可能帮她把头发保留了长一点点，里面剃掉，外面那层剪到了胸以下。
I kept her hair as long as I could, shaving it off inside and cutting it below her chest.
剪完之后，她笑着说其实这样子也挺好看的。
After the cut, she smiled and said that it was pretty, too.
当时我就觉得，作为一个发型师，能够在这件事情上帮到她们，真的很有成就感。
At the time, I felt a sense of accomplishment as a hairdresser who could help them in this matter.
我还碰到几个蛮漂亮的小姑娘，她们之前烫过那种大波浪卷发，染过颜色，开玩笑说我这个头发是680烫的，年前才做的，你这一刀下去就没了，这个头发剪得可贵了。
I met some pretty little girls who had their hair permed and dyed, joking that my hair was 680 hot and had been made only a few years ago.
她们当时就是这样子调侃的，感觉到她们其实也很无奈。
They were making fun of it that way, feeling that they were actually helpless.
我们去的目的和初衷是希望在安全的情况下，能尽可能保留她们漂亮的一面、女性的一面。
Our goal and intention was to preserve as much of their beauty and femininity as possible in a safe environment.
但是很多女孩子一上来就说，你给我把周边和后面都剃掉吧。
But a lot of girls come up and say, "You can shave off the sides and the back."
她说我能活着回来，后面想怎么漂亮就怎么漂亮，头发剪短了可以再长，但是我进去了如果出不来，命只有一条，我不可能去冒这个风险。
She said I could be back alive, as beautiful as I wanted to be, and as long as I wanted, but I went in and if I couldn't get out, I couldn't risk it.
有一次我给广西医疗队的一个女孩子剪头发，我当时想着，不管怎么样，留个圆寸也好一点。
One time I had a haircut for a girl from Guangxi Medical Team, and I thought, Anyway, it would be nice to keep it small.
我跟她沟通了一下，剪完之后，她说不行，还是剃光。
I talked to her, and when she finished, she said no, or shaved.
我就问她为什么，她说我剃光是希望能够健健康康地回去见到我的孩子。
I asked her why. She said I shaved just to be able to go back to see my child in good health.
男医护也是这样，上来就说我不要求你剪什么发型，短就行了。
Male medical care is the same, come up to say that I do not ask you to cut what hairdo, short enough.
基本上大部分就是剃圆寸，比光头长一点点，三毫米。
Basically, most are shaved inches, a little longer than a skinhead, three millimeters long.
要不就是直接推光。
Or just push the light.
再就是把周边几乎都剃光，上面剪到大概1厘米左右，打得很薄，叫毛寸，就这几种造型。
The other is to shave almost all the edges, cut to about 1 centimeter above, hit very thin, called Mao inch, on these kinds of modelling.
因为我们前期接触的都是没有进病区的医护人员，他们对病毒也不了解，其实刚开始大家都会有一点点恐慌吧。
Because we are in contact with the medical personnel who did not enter the area, they do not know about the virus, in fact, at the beginning we will have a little panic.
但是后面这一段时间，从病区出来的医护我们也在接，他们都说可以给我剪得好看一点，帮我剪一个发型吗？可能他们进去之后，慢慢对病毒有了解，没有那么恐惧了。
But over the next few days, we picked up the doctors and nurses from the sick area, and they said they could cut me a little better and cut me a haircut? Maybe after they got in, they got to know the virus better and were not so scared.
很多人中途就又打电话联系我，说上次头发剪完了想再修一修，我就回去再帮他们重新设计，修剪一下。
A lot of people called me on the way, saying that the last time I had a haircut and wanted to fix it, I would go back and help them redesign it and trim it.
他们说已经看到希望了，可能不需要多长的时间就可以回家了。
They said they had seen hope and it might not be long before they could go home.
理发师正在帮一名女医护理发理发师为男医护推头 4从2月15日到现在，我们没有休息过。
A hairdresser is helping a female hairdresser push the male medics head 4 From Feb. 15 to the present, we haven't had a rest.
其实根本就服务不过来。
In fact, the service simply can not come.
支援武汉的医疗队大概有3万多人，我们这个团队大概服务了不到1万人，还有好几个志愿者团队也在做这件事。
Wuhan support of the medical team of about 30,000 people, our team probably served less than 10,000 people, and several volunteer teams are also doing this.
每天中午11点半到12点，我们跟医护人员一起领盒饭，大家分批去吃饭。
Every day from 11: 30 to 12: 00 noon, we take boxed rice with the medical staff, and we eat in batches.
每个地方的盒饭都不一样，据说援汉医疗队每天每人是200块的标准，也就是说一餐盒饭100块。
Boxed rice varies from place to place. It is said that the medical team is 200 yuan per person per day, that is, 100 yuan for a meal.
我感觉是有的地方做得好，有的地方做得不好。
I feel that there are places that are well done and places that are not well done.
之前去过一个医疗队的定点酒店，酒店厨房正好没有休息，提供自助餐，蛮不错的，有肉有虾，有餐后水果，绝对达到了一天200块的标准。
I had been to a medical team hotel, the hotel kitchen just did not break, provide buffet, good, there is meat and shrimp, fruit after dinner, absolutely reached the standard of 200 dollars a day.
也有地方是达不到的，但到后期的话，医疗队的物资基本上是有保障的。
There are also areas that cannot be reached, but by late stage, medical teams are basically assured of supplies.
大部分医护来理发，可能穿的还是他们的“洗手衣”，也有穿自己衣服的，还有穿一次性手术服或者隔离服的。
Most doctors and nurses come for haircuts, perhaps wearing their "hand-washing clothes," others wearing their own clothes, and others wearing disposable surgical uniforms or isolation suits.
他们很小心，担心会对我们有影响，其实很多人也很紧张，会拿随身携带的酒精消毒液给我们，喷一下围布。
They are very careful, worried about the impact on us, in fact, many people are very nervous, will take the alcohol disinfectant with us, spray a cloth.
有时候喷多了，围布上面会有点湿，围的时候就会有点冰冰凉凉的。
Sometimes spray too much, the top of the cloth will be a bit wet, around the time will be a little chilly.
工具都是一客一消毒，每天结束工作之后，我们还会全部再用酒精喷洒一遍，就像做保养一样。
The tools are all sterilized, and at the end of the day, we spray them all over again, just like we do maintenance.
一个星期前，我的电推子坏了。
A week ago, my pusher broke down.
刚好志愿者团队里面有一个老板，他是专门做理发工具的，就把店铺里面的工具拿出来无偿给我们使用。
Coincidentally, there is a team of volunteers within a boss, he is specialized in hairdressing tools, on the inside of the shop to take out the tools for free use.
酒精洒多了，手特别干，皮肤会皱，会发暗，没有光泽，灰蒙蒙的，像老年人皱巴巴的双手一样。
Excessive alcohol, especially dry hands, wrinkled skin, will be dark, glossy, gray, like old people wrinkled hands.
后来负责协调的领队也给我们每个人发了护手霜。
Later the team leader in charge of coordination also gave each of us a hand cream.
医护人员的物资慢慢多一些之后，看到我们这样子很辛苦，也会把他们自己的酒精消毒凝胶给我们，那个东西比直接喷洒酒精好很多。
As the paramedics slowly gathered more supplies, they saw how hard we were, and gave us their own disinfectant gel, which was much better than spraying alcohol directly.
除了前期刚过来的医疗队，后面我们服务的医护，99%以上都是没有洗过头发的。
Except for the medical team that just arrived earlier, more than 99% of the medical staff we serve have not washed their hair.
可能他们刚刚从舱里面出来，回到酒店，本来是很疲惫的一个状态，一看到有剪头发的，就赶紧过来排队。
Perhaps they had just come out of the cabin, back to the hotel, was very tired of a state, the first to see a haircut, hurriedly line up.
很多人头发都是扎着的，或者是被帽子压得扁扁的，油油的。
A lot of people have their hair tied up, or their hats are flat and greasy.
我们会看头发变形的程度，如果说很影响理发的，比如头发都是弯的，发根都是倒的，就必须要先喷水再剪。
We look at the extent to which the hair is deformed. If it affects a haircut, for example, if the hair is bent and the roots are all down, we have to spray water before cutting it.
理发的场地设施，用一句话概括就是一切从简，现场有什么就用什么。
A barber's premises, in a word, is everything from simple, on-the-spot use of anything.
有的地方就是一个塑料凳子，有的地方可能是有靠背的椅子。
Some places are a plastic stool, some places may be a chair with a back.
镜子是没有的，很多人剪完头发都会习惯性地把手机打开，用相机或者就直接拿手机屏幕的玻璃照一下。
Mirrors are missing. Many people habitually turn their phones on after a haircut, using a camera or simply taking a picture of the glass on the phone's screen.
不太忙的时候，我们也会跟他们聊天。
We talk to them when we're not too busy.
比如说你觉得大概什么时候可以解封，这个事情大概还得多长时间。
How long do you think it will take, for example, to unpack it?
这一个多月，医护的变化还是很明显的。
For more than a month, the changes in health care have been evident.
没有进舱之前，大部分人都比较紧张，不知道会面临什么。
Most people are nervous and don't know what to expect until they get into the cabin.
也有年轻的医护很激动，跃跃欲试。
There are also young doctors who are excited and eager to try.
慢慢地，随着出院的病人越来越多，确诊的、疑似的越来越少，很多医护在理发时会讨论病情，比如哪一床的病人怎么样了。
Slowly, as more patients get out of the hospital and fewer people are diagnosed and suspected, many health-care professionals will discuss the conditions, such as which bed is going to get better.
最近这段时间，听到越来越多的就是他们都很想家，在聊家里的孩子。
These days, they hear more and more that they are homesick, talking about the children at home.
很多人在理发时还会给家里打视频电话，给她宝宝看，说妈妈今天理发了，有志愿者叔叔来给妈妈理发了。
Many people make video calls to their families when they have their hair cut. They show their babies that their mothers had their hair cut today and that their uncles have come to cut their hair.
医护人员来排队理发理发师志愿者的签到表Johnny领到的盒饭5从一开始做这件事情，我就和家人分开住了。
Paramedics queued up to get a hairdresser's check-in form Johnny's box of rice 5 From the start, I was separated from my family.
我现在住在一个朋友租的房子，他去外地了没有回来，就把钥匙给我，说你平时正好帮我打理一下。
I am living in a house rented by a friend. When he doesn't come back, he gives me the keys and tells me that you are just going to do it for me.
每天晚上我回到住处，进门的时候会把自己身上全部喷一遍酒精，包括鞋底，之后就把衣服挂到阳台，基本上进出就是这一套衣服。
Every night when I come back to my apartment, I spray all of my alcohol, including the soles of my shoes, and then hang my clothes on the balcony.
我们还有一起的小伙伴，就直接睡车里了，有两次剪得比较晚，正好酒店里面有空余的房间，帮忙安排在酒店住下了。
We still have a small partner, just sleep in the car, two times late cut, just inside the hotel has a spare room, help arrange to stay in the hotel.
我是湖北仙桃人，来武汉有20年了，去年刚刚在武汉落户。
I am Hubei Xiantao people, has come to Wuhan for 20 years, just settled in Wuhan last year.
2000年我18岁，因为没读书了嘛，就想出来学个手艺。
When I was 18 in 2000, I thought of learning a trade because I didn't read.
说起来也是很巧，我来武汉那天也是2月14日。
It also happened that the day I came to Wuhan was February 14.
我曾经也开过很多次理发店，但经营不善，有时候可能也是机遇的问题。
I've had a lot of barbershops too, but it's not well managed and sometimes it's a matter of opportunity.
前面几年还是不错的，也积累了一定的人脉，带过很多学生。
The previous few years or not bad, but also accumulated a certain amount of contacts, with a lot of students.
大概在2014年、2015年，我想做比较高端一点的店嘛，跟两个朋友一起投了差不多180万。
Around 2014 and 2015, I want to be a more upmarket store, with two friends who voted almost 1.8 million dollars.
但是当时武汉对这一类的店型不是很接受，一下就亏掉了几十万，前面所有的积蓄都亏掉了，还欠了一点债。
But at that time Wuhan was not very receptive to this type of store, a loss of hundreds of thousands of dollars, all the savings in front of the loss, and a little debt.
后来我又出来打了两年工，现在和朋友合伙开了一个小工作室，50多平，5把椅子，两张洗头床。
Then I went out to work for two more years, and now I have a small studio in partnership with a friend, more than 50 flat, five chairs, two shampoos.
去年12月31日，我给一个客户做头发，做完下班已经是1月1日凌晨1点钟左右了。
On December 31 last year, I had my hair done for a client. It was around 1 a.m. on January 1 after finishing work.
他给我看了一条他朋友发来的截屏，说华南海鲜市场出现了不明肺炎。
He showed me a screenshot from one of his friends about an unidentified pneumonia in the south China seafood market.
当时我就问他，这是什么？他说他朋友在医院工作，说是SARS。
Then I asked him, What is this? He said his friend worked in a hospital and said it was SARS.
但我们都没太在意，第二天还是正常工作。
But we didn't pay much attention, the next day is still normal work.
那段时间客人特别多，我们每天都是没日没夜地干。
There were so many guests at that time that we worked day and night.
到了1月18日，小年夜前后，还是有很多客人来，但是陆陆续续就看到有人开始戴口罩了。
On January 18, around the time of the Lunar New Year, there were still a lot of visitors, but a body began to see people wearing masks.
有一些客户提醒我们还是注意一下，我就让技师去买口罩，结果他们说周边的药店口罩卖完了，我那一下就感觉到这个情况严重了。
Some customers reminded us to pay attention, I asked the technician to buy masks, but they said the nearby pharmacy masks sold out, I felt the situation at that moment.
我记得我跑了十几家药店吧，买了3包普通医用口罩，N95那时候已经买不到了，我们就戴了双层医用口罩。
I remember running around a dozen drugstores and buying three bags of regular medical masks. N95 wasn't available by then, so we wore a double medical mask.
年前我们正常营业到腊月二十九（1月23日），就是封城那天。
We were open until the twenty-ninth of January, the day the city was closed.
因为有一些客户要做头发嘛，就想着尽可能帮他们做完，再回老家。
Because there are some clients who want to do hair, they want to help them do it as much as possible, and then go home.
1月23日我起床的时候已经过10点了，封城了。
January 23rd I got up after ten o'clock and closed the city.
我赶紧给那几个客人发信息，想把预约取消，他们也说不过来了。
I hastened to send a message to the guests, wanting to cancel the appointment, and they could not explain.
我就直接把店门关了，给父母打电话说回不去了，他们也特别理解，因为我们老家也挺严格的，23日武汉封城，24日仙桃就封城了，大家都待在家里，每天视频电话报个平安。
I shut the door directly, called my parents to say can not go back, they also understand, because our hometown is also quite strict, 23 Wuhan closed the city on the 24th, the peach was closed, everyone stay at home, every day video phone call a safe.
不知道4月底或者5月初有没有可能复工。
It is not known whether work will resume in late April or early May.
这段时间，所有武汉人都没有剪头发，只要一解封，第一时间理发店肯定是最忙的。
This time, all Wuhan people did not cut their hair, as long as a release, the first time the barber shop is certainly the busiest.
但是前期复工的困难比较大，不可能一下子允许那么大面积的人员聚集，而且很多人还是会担心，觉得公共场所还是不去的好。
But the difficulty of returning to work in the early days is greater, it is impossible to allow such a large number of people to gather at once, and many people will still worry that it is better not to go to public places.
我倒不担心复工以后会有特别大的影响，都是老客户，收入正常还是会进来。
I'm not worried that going back to work will have a particularly big impact. It's a regular customer and the income will come in.
而且工作室的房租压力相对小一点。
And the studio rent pressure is relatively small.
连锁店可能就很难生存，租金比较高，大部分都是流动客，还面临员工工资的压力。
Chain stores can be difficult to survive, with higher rents, mostly for itinerant customers, and are under pressure from staff salaries.
他们靠的是现金流，资金链一旦断了，很难撑下去。
They rely on cash flow, the chain of funds once broken, it is difficult to sustain.
理发师在为医护人员理发，现场条件一切从简志愿者们在露天场地为医护人员理发志愿者们在医院为医护人员理发6这两个月没有收入，我每月还要还8000左右的房贷和车贷，再加上店里的房租。
The barber is cutting the hair for the paramedics, everything from Jane's volunteers in the open air to the paramedics. The volunteers cut the hair for the paramedics in the hospital for two months.
目前房东还没有明确地说要减租。
At present the landlord has not explicitly said to reduce the rent.
说实话，我这段时间就只能套信用卡。
To tell you the truth, I can only get credit cards this time.
好在目前小孩子的网课有很多都是免费的，让我轻松了一点点。
Fortunately, there are many children's online classes are free, let me relax a little bit.
我儿子今年6岁，马上要上一年级，报了很多幼小衔接的培优班，语文、数学、英语，包括钢琴、画画这些都有学。
My son, 6 years old, is about to enter first grade and has enrolled in a number of prep classes in Chinese, mathematics, English, including piano and painting.
一旦恢复上课了，要付费去上这些培优班的话，我估计我两个月都撑不下去。
Once my classes resume and I have to pay for these peerage classes, I don't think I'll be able to do it for two months.
我是月光族，赚的钱还完房贷、车贷，再算上小孩子的培优费用，基本上就没有了。
I am the moon, the money to pay off the mortgage, car loans, and the child's preeminence costs, basically no longer.
以前有积蓄的时候，我老想着男人嘛，肯定要搞事业，想着去开店，去投资，把生意做大，总觉得钱就等着我们去赚似的。
When I had savings, I always thought about men, I was sure to do business, to open a shop, to invest, to do a big business, and always feel like money is waiting for us to make a profit.
现在我明白了一个道理，人一定要有积蓄。
Now I have learned the truth that people must have savings.
自己平时可能得要更节约一点吧，把钱攒一攒，能够未雨绸缪一下。
I may have to be a little more frugal, save a little money, can be prepared for the future.
很多人说，那你们去理发为什么不收费呢，我说人家是拿命在拼，我们怎么好意思，我们做这件事情真的就没有想过收钱。
Many people say, so why don't you go for a haircut, I said people are fighting for their lives, how can we be good, we do this thing really do not want to collect money.
有朋友问，为什么要去冒这个风险？我开玩笑说，有句话叫“国难当头，匹夫有责”，全国的医疗队伍都来支援武汉了，都已经到一级战备了，我们这个时候能拿着我们的剪刀上，跟医护人员同样站在一线，就是给他们加把劲。
One of my friends asked why he took this risk, joking that the country's medical team had come to Wuhan to support Wuhan. It was time for us to take our scissors and stand on the same side as the paramedics, giving them a boost.
刚开始出来做志愿者的时候，我很小心，不轻易开车门，车窗从来没开过，到了地方就下去干活，回来的时候还会用酒精喷一下车门把手。
When I first started out as a volunteer, I was careful not to drive the door, the window never opened, I went down to work, and when I came back, I sprayed the door handle with alcohol.
后来我就发现，路上有很多志愿者。
Later I found out that there were many volunteers on the road.
武汉市太大了，人口密度也大，要为这些人做这么多事情，其实需要很多人的付出，服务社区的，帮忙买菜、跑腿的……特别是外卖小哥，他们还是那样子，骑着一个电动车在大街上跑，真替他们捏一把汗。
Wuhan city is too big, population density is big, to do so many things for these people, in fact, need a lot of people to pay, serve the community, help buy vegetables, run errands... especially take-out brother, they still like that, riding an electric car in the street, really knead for them.
我们志愿者队伍里有几个小鲜肉，90后，他们开玩笑说，自己现在就是整条街最靓的仔。
There were a few small pieces of meat in our volunteer corps, and after 90, they joked that they were the nicest ones on the street.
今天有医护人员问我，樱花现在开了吗？我说往年这个时候，武汉的解放公园、江滩、晴川阁，包括武大和东湖的樱花园都可以看得到。
Today, some medical staff asked me if the cherry blossoms were open, and I said that at this time of the year, Wuhan Jiefang Park, Jiangtan, Qingchuan Pavilion, including the Sakura Garden in Wuda and East Lake can be seen.
她又问远吗，我们可以去吗？他们很可爱的，他们说我就是想看一下，我不下车，就在车里面看一下行不行？当时我就想，其实对于这些原地待命休整的医护人员，政府是不是可以考虑搞一辆旅游大巴，载着他们，让他们看看武汉、了解武汉。
She asked far away, can we go? They are lovely, they said I just want to see, I do not get out of the car, just look inside the car? I thought, in fact, these on-call health-care personnel, the government can consider a tour bus, to drive them, let them see Wuhan, understand Wuhan.
他们这么大老远地奔赴过来，付出这么多，到目前为止还不知道武汉是什么样子。
They come all the way here and pay so much, so far, I don't know what Wuhan is like.
在他们的印象当中，武汉就是从酒店到病房，从病房到酒店。
In their impression, Wuhan is from the hotel to the ward, from the ward to the hotel.
有人说，我都不知道外面的天气，也不知道外面的时辰，不知道现在外面是星星还是太阳。
Some people say, I do not know the weather outside, do not know the time outside, do not know whether it is the stars or the sun outside.
但是他们没有办法出去，因为他们接到的命令就是在酒店里待着。
But they could not get out, because they had been ordered to stay in the hotel.
现在已经3月中旬了，樱花就是这样子的，可能到4月初，清明节那个时候就没有了。
It's already in the middle of March, and cherry blossoms will probably be gone by early April, Ching Ming Festival.
理发师志愿者们在武汉市中心医院理发师志愿者团队，后排右一为Johnny（题图为理发师志愿者在为医护人员理发。
Hairdresser volunteers work on a volunteer team of barbers at Wuhan Central Hospital, with Johnny at the back of the row.
本文图片均由受访者提供。
Photographs of this article are provided by the respondents.
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
三万武汉医护人员的理发师。
30000 Wuhan medical staff barber.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "三万武汉医护人员的理发师";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们的目的和初衷是希望在安全的情况下，尽可能保留医护人员漂亮的一面。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Our aim and intention was to preserve as much beauty as possible in a safe environment.
很多医护人员中途就又打电话联系我，说上次头发剪完了想再修一修，我就回去再帮他们重新设计，修剪一下。
A lot of paramedics called me on the way, saying that the last time I had a haircut and wanted to fix it, I went back to help them redesign it and trim it.
他们说已经看到希望了，可能不需要多长的时间就可以回家了。
They said they had seen hope and it might not be long before they could go home.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
