那个从美国回国求医的黎女士，还有更多问题。
Ms. Lai, who is returning from the United States to seek medical treatment, has more questions.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 环球时报。
The following article comes from the Global Times.
Author 耿直哥 赵觉珵。
Author Genghuo Zhao Gejid.
环球时报。
Global Times.
报道多元世界 解读复杂中国。
Covering a Plural World Interprets Complex China.
图片来源：视觉中国本文来源：环球时报 记者：耿直哥 赵觉珵“ 近日，一个发生在北京的输入型新冠肺炎病例引起了舆论的关注。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cn Geng straight brother Zhaojid "Recently, a case of imported New Crown Pneumonia in Beijing attracted public attention.
据媒体报道，黎某在美国洛杉矶登机前曾服用了大量的退烧药，并对乘务人员隐瞒了自己的病情，还说自己没有同行者，仅称自己有点不适，让乘务员将自己安排到了飞机的后排就坐。
According to media reports, Li had taken a large number of anti-fever drugs before boarding in Los Angeles, and told the flight attendants to conceal his illness, said he did not have fellow passengers, just said that they are a little uncomfortable, let himself be arranged to sit in the back of the plane.
”除了在乘机回国前隐瞒病情，她还遭到了一些美国华人的批评。
In addition to concealing her illness before flying home, she has faced criticism from some Chinese Americans.
近日，一个发生在北京的输入型新冠肺炎病例引起了舆论的关注。
Recently, a case of imported New Crown Pneumonia in Beijing caught the attention of public opinion.
根据北京市疾病预防控制中心副主任庞星火昨日的介绍，这个名叫黎某的确诊病例，是于3月13日与其丈夫和孩子从美国洛杉矶乘国航的CA988客机抵达北京首都机场的。
The confirmed case, named Le Mou, arrived at Beijing's capital on March 13 on an Air China CA988 flight from Los Angeles with her husband and children, according to Pong Xinghua, deputy director of the Beijing Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
庞星火还介绍说，这个国内户籍在重庆的黎某，常年居住在美国的马萨诸塞州（麻省），她自述自己在2月26日至27日在美国参加公司会议，其中一同事后来被诊断为确诊病例，然后她自己在3月1日也出现了发热等不适。
Pong also said she described herself as attending a company meeting in the United States from February 26 to 27. One of her colleagues was later diagnosed with a confirmed case and she herself developed fever and other ailments on March 1.
另外，庞星火还提到黎某称自己在3月3日、5日、10和11日在美国就诊时，3次申请新冠病毒核酸检测都遭到了拒绝，所以她才于3月12日从来到美国洛杉矶乘飞机回到中国治病。
Pang also cited Le Pong's claim that she had been denied three Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) tests during visits to the United States on March 3, 5, 10 and 11, so she flew back to China on March 12 from Los Angeles.
然而，随着这个案例在舆论中的发酵，人们逐渐发现这个黎某的问题，可能比想象中的要严重和过分。
However, as this case in the public opinion ferment, people gradually discovered that this Le Mou problem, may be more serious and excessive than expected.
比如，《北京日报》今天的一篇最新报道就指出，这个黎某在美国洛杉矶登机前曾服用了大量的退烧药，并对乘务人员隐瞒了自己的病情，还说自己没有同行者，仅称自己有点不适，让乘务员将自己安排到了飞机的后排就坐。
For example, a recent report in the Beijing Daily today pointed out that Li had taken a lot of antipyretics before boarding a plane in Los Angeles. He told the flight attendants that he was not a fellow traveler and that he was not feeling well.
直到临近飞机落地前2小时，这个本来就是像从美国跑回中国治病的黎某，这才吐露真相，说自己任职的公司有人确诊，她自己也发烧了，但吃了退烧药，还说自己有丈夫和孩子在机上同行。
It was not until two hours before the plane landed that Li, who had been traveling from the United States to China for treatment, confessed that her company had been diagnosed with fever, but had taken antipyretics and said she had a husband and children on board.
《环球时报》记者的采访也证实了这一点。
An interview with the Global Times confirmed this.
一名与黎某同机，且与黎某一开始的座位相隔数排的乘客就表示，在飞机于北京落地后，空乘广播说要有防疫人员上机检查，于是大家等了1小时左右，就看到黎某一家先被带下了飞机。
A passenger row away from one of Li's original seats said that after the plane landed in Beijing, the flight attendants announced they would need epidemic prevention personnel on board, so they waited for about an hour and saw the Li family being taken off the plane.
之后其他乘客才陆续下机。
Then the other passengers began to alight.
这名乘客还说，虽然客机上大家的保护措施都比较到位，不少人都戴了护目镜和口罩，但她认为黎某的做法“极度自私、不可原谅，希望她能受到法律的制裁”。
The passenger also said that although everyone in the passenger plane protection measures are in place, many people wear goggles and masks, but she said Le practices "extremely selfish, unforgivable, hope she can be brought to justice.
另一方面，黎某的这个案子，还引起了一些不少在美国马萨诸塞州华人的关注。
On the other hand, the case of Le Mou has also aroused some concern among Chinese in Massachusetts.
《环球时报》记者看到的两组当地华人的聊天记录就显示，黎某是马萨诸塞州生物科技公司Biogen（勃健）的员工，其公司在2月26日的一次会议上出现了大规模的聚集性病例，疫情在3月初就被发现了。
Two groups of local Chinese chat records seen by the Global Times showed Le Mou was an employee of Biogen, a Massachusetts biotech company whose company reported a massive case of aggregation at a meeting on February 26, and the outbreak was discovered in early March.
这些聊天记录中，有人还称黎某在美国已经被“确诊”了，但她“不满意”美国的医疗手段，所以违反隔离要求，从马萨诸塞州一路来到洛杉矶，然后坐飞机回到中国，可她却撒谎说美国没给她做检测。
Some said she was "diagnosed" in the United States, but she "wasn't satisfied" with the medical treatment, so she flew all the way from Massachusetts to Los Angeles and back to China, in violation of quarantine requirements, but lied about not being tested.
“这一路要祸祸多少人啊”，其中一份聊天记录中有人这样说道。
"How many people will be hurt along the way," one of the chat records says.
另有熟悉美国航班交通的人表示，距离黎某所在的马萨诸塞州不远的纽约，就有飞往北京的直航，但她选择了先从美国东海岸来到西海岸，再从洛杉矶飞回国内。
Other people familiar with US air traffic say there is a direct flight to Beijing not far from New York, where Le Roy lives in Massachusetts, but she chose to fly from the east coast of the United States to the west coast and back home from Los Angeles.
该人士表示，考虑到美国很低的口罩佩戴率，可以预想到这一路也可能有不少被黎某传染的。
Given the low wearing rate of masks in the US, it is conceivable that a number of cases could have been infected along the way, this person said.
但也有自称是黎某同事的人，在一个名为“北美华人e网”的论坛上发帖说：“她已经比较严重了，医院不让她住院，也不让她治疗”。
But others, claiming to be colleagues from Li, posted on a forum called the North American Chinese e-Network, said: "She has become so serious that the hospital has not allowed her to be hospitalized or treated."
此人称，自己是黎某的密切接触者，虽然终于被允许做病毒检测了，但被告知“资源紧张，（检测）时间另行通知”。
The person said he was in close contact with Li, although finally allowed to do virus testing, but was told "resources tight, [test] time to be announced."
此人还在贴文中写道：“医院……明确表示如果positive，在需要上呼吸机之前没有任何治疗，就在家休息……请问如果我们确诊了要不要也逃回国？”对于上述信息，《环球时报》记者目前还在核实中，但我们查询美国当地媒体的报道发现，美国马萨诸塞州的那家名叫Biogen的生物科技公司，确实曾在2月26日于当地举办了一场大型会议，并在会议结束后的短短几天里，就出现了多名新冠肺炎确诊病例。
"The hospital... made it clear that if there was no treatment before we needed a ventilator, it would rest at home...... but we checked with local media to find out if we wanted to go home."
这也与目前黎某已经被确认的信息相符，即她曾在2月26日在当地参加了一场会议，会议中有人确诊感染。
This is also consistent with the already confirmed information from Lebanon that she attended a meeting on the ground on 26 February, during which the infection was confirmed.
根据《波士顿环球报》的报道，Biogen公司在意识到情况不对后，曾于3月5日通报了公司此次会议发生的聚集性疫情，并要求员工远程办公。
The Boston Globe reported that Biogen, aware that the situation was not right, had informed the company on March 5 of the gathering epidemic and asked employees to telecommute.
其他媒体则称，该公司9日又要求参加过那场会议的员工在家自我隔离。
Other media said the company on the 9th also asked the staff who participated in the meeting to self-isolation at home.
《波士顿环球报》在一篇更新于3月10日的报道还提到，这些参加过会议且后来出现了疑似症状的员工，曾在3月5日公司通报了疫情信息后跑去当地医院申请做病毒检测，但因为不符合美国疾控中心制定的过于苛刻的病毒检测标准而被拒绝。
The Boston Globe, in an update dated March 10, also noted that the employees who attended the meeting and later developed suspected symptoms had gone to the local hospital on March 5 to apply for a virus test, but were turned down for failing to meet the CDC's overly stringent virus detection criteria.
甚至于，由于大量公司员工都跑去医院急诊要求做测试，Biogen公司还一度要求员工们不要再去医院要求做检测了，因为这已经给当地医院的急诊室造成了很大压力。
Even as a large number of employees rushed to hospitals for tests, Biogen once asked employees not to go back to the hospital for tests, which had put a strain on the emergency rooms of local hospitals.
Biogen公司自己也曾在3月3日和4日向当地官方报告过公司会议出现了聚集性病例的事情，并询问了做检测的事情，但同样以不够检测标准被拒。
Biogen itself reported to local officials on March 3 and 4 that there had been cases of aggregation at the company's meetings, and asked about the tests, which were also rejected as inadequate.
但报道也补充说，在3月6日的时候，当地多家医院已经设置了临时检测站，以应对由于Biogen公司的聚集性病例而猛增的测试需求。
But it added that by March 6, several local hospitals had set up temporary testing stations to cope with surging demand for tests because of Biogen's concentrated cases.
美国一家医疗资讯网站3月9日的报道也显示官方彼时已经同意对Biogen参加过会议的员工进行检测，Biogen当时也已经告诉员工，让他们待在家里自我隔离，并等待官方联系他们进行检测。
A report on March 9 by a US medical information website also showed that officials had agreed to test Biogen's staff, who were then told to stay at home to isolate themselves and wait for officials to contact them for tests.
在检测标准对Biogen的员工放宽后，马萨诸塞州官方3月9日公布的数据就显示，当时他们就已经测出了32名与该公司有关的确诊病例，占了该州当时全部41名确诊病例的近8成。
After testing standards were relaxed for Biogen employees, Massachusetts officials reported on March 9 that they had detected 32 confirmed cases involving the company, or nearly 80% of the state's 41 confirmed cases at the time.
之后，这一“与Biogen有关的确诊病例”数字，也成为了当地官方每天的疫情通报中的一个环节，数字则从3月9日的32例增加到了3月14日的104人，占当天累计138个确诊人数的75%——可以说Biogen公司的那场会议，已经成为了马萨诸塞州的“华南海鲜市场”。
The number of confirmed cases related to Biogen rose from 32 on March 9 to 104 on March 14, or 75 percent of the 138 people diagnosed that day.The Biogen meeting has become Massachusetts's South China Seafood Market.
那么，从上述信息来看，我们虽然暂时无法核实黎某“确诊后逃回中国”的指控，但从上述美国媒体的报道中我们可以发现，这个黎某在回国前应该已经知道公司发生了聚集性疫情，并已经被公司通知在家隔离，等待官方联系去检测。
So, from the above information, we are not in a position to verify Lebanon's "diagnosis and escape back to China" allegations, but we can see from the above-mentioned US media reports that this Lebanon before returning home should have known that the company had a concentrated epidemic, and has been notified by the company isolation, waiting for official contact to detect.
至于她为何在这种情况下仍然要跑到洛杉矶，隐瞒病情乘机回国，置自己和他人的安危于不顾，这一鲁莽的行为是否真如北美华人e网的那个网贴说，是源于她觉得美国的治疗方法不行，目前也仍然还需进一步核实。
As to why she still has to travel to Los Angeles to hide her illness and put herself and others' safety at risk, this reckless act, like the one posted on the North American Chinese e-Network, stems from her belief that the American treatment is not working and still needs to be further verified.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那个从美国回国求医的黎女士，还有更多问题。
Ms. Lai, who is returning from the United States to seek medical treatment, has more questions.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "那个从美国回国求医的黎女士，还有更多问题";。
var msg _ title = & quot; and Ms. Lai, who returned from the United States to seek medical care, and at least & quot;
var msg_desc = "近日，一个发生在北京的输入型新冠肺炎病例引起了舆论的关注。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a recent case of imported New Crown Pneumonia in Beijing caught public attention.
据媒体报道，黎某在美国洛杉矶登机前曾服用了大量的退烧药，并对乘务人员隐瞒了自己的病情，还说自己没有同行者，仅称自己有点不适，让乘务员将自己安排到了飞机的后排就坐。
According to media reports, Li had taken a large number of anti-fever drugs before boarding in Los Angeles, and told the flight attendants to conceal his illness, said he did not have fellow passengers, just said that they are a little uncomfortable, let himself be arranged to sit in the back of the plane.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
