一张机票18万?欧洲华人深陷回国难题。
One plane ticket 180,000? The Chinese in Europe are in deep trouble.
陈晓双。
Chen Xiaoshuang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：陈晓双“ 金鹿航空推出了3月18日伦敦-日内瓦-上海航线的787公务机行程，共40个座位，单个座位售价18万元起，迅速卖光。
Reporter: Chen Xiaoshuang "Jinlu launched March 18 route London - Geneva - Shanghai 787 business flight itinerary, a total of 40 seats, a single seat price of 180,000 yuan, quickly sold out.
”随着境外疫情不断升级，越来越多的华人择返回国内。
"As the epidemic continues to escalate abroad, more and more Chinese are opting to return home.
但由于各地管控措施升级和很多国际航班暂停等限制，很多人面临回国难的困境。
But many face the prospect of returning home because of escalating controls and restrictions such as the suspension of many international flights.
曲折回国路意大利当地时间3月14日15时，计划乘坐俄罗斯航空经莫斯科中转回国的欧阳女士做好防护来到罗马机场，顺利办理登机牌和出关手续，但在登机之前被告知非俄罗斯籍不能登机，“俄航工作人员已经直接把我的登机牌撕掉一半了。
2008-12-15 10: 00 p.m. local time Italy 14 March, planning to return via Moscow via Russian Airlines Ms. Ouyang to make preparations for the airport, smooth boarding passes and clearance procedures, but was told before boarding that non-Russian nationals could not board the plane, "Russian Airlines staff have directly torn my boarding pass off half.
”和她同航班面临同样境遇的还有约50位华人。
She shared the same fate as her flight with about 50 Chinese.
与俄航交涉无果后，欧阳女士迅速重新订埃塞俄比亚航空经亚的斯亚巴斯转机回国的航班。
After unsuccessful negotiations with RIA, Ms. Ouyang quickly rebooked Ethiopian Airlines via Addis Ababa to return home.
但“埃航目前已经满了，没买到票的人只能回家，没有航班了。
"But the airline is full now and those who don't have tickets have to go home and there are no flights.
”罗马机场 图片来源：欧阳欧阳称，她出发前致电俄航官方客服确定她的联程机票可以顺利乘坐航班，但没想到机场出关后，遇到政策突变被拒绝登机。
Rome Airport Source: Ouyang Oyang said she phoned RIA's official customer service to make sure her connecting flight would work, but was refused permission to board the plane after the airport was cleared.
经核实，目前俄航在罗马机场的最新政策是，只允许欧亚经济联盟五个国家的公民（俄罗斯、白俄罗斯、哈萨克斯坦、吉尔吉斯斯坦、亚美尼亚）乘坐俄罗斯航空返回莫斯科。
It has been verified that at present the latest policy of RIA at Rome airport is to allow only citizens of five EURASEC countries (Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Armenia) to return to Moscow by Russian Airlines.
仅隔了一天之前，一名在意大利工作的房女士，庆幸搭上了俄航政策出台前同一航班顺利回国，此前也因阿联酋、土耳其航空陆续意大利航线调整而改签过。
Just a day ago, a woman who worked in Italy was lucky to be able to return home on the same flight before RIA's policy, having been re-signed by UAE and Turkish Airlines as they adjusted their routes to Italy.
中转航班22个小时，她全程穿着防护服，为了最大程度降低病毒感染风险，她没有摘下口罩用餐、滴水未进。
She wore protective clothing throughout her 22-hour transit flight and did not take off her mask to eat or drink, in order to minimize the risk of infection.
在像“欧洲党回国群”这样的微信群里，不断有人分享回国经验和更新航班机场限制措施。
In small groups like the Return Group of the European Party, the experience of returning home and updating flight airport restrictions are constantly being shared.
从西班牙、德国、法国回程的留学生们密切关注航班和政策动向，担心转机被拒、航班被临时取消。
Returning students from Spain, Germany and France closely followed flight and policy developments, fearing that connections would be turned down and flights temporarily cancelled.
群里的热心人士不断更新注意事项，“目前台北新加坡不可转机。
Enthusiasts in the group constantly update their notes. "Taipei Singapore is not a connecting flight at the moment.
从3月16日起，莫斯科与巴塞罗那、布尔加斯、法兰克福、伊拉克利翁、慕尼黑、塞萨洛尼基和苏黎世之间的航班将暂停。
From 16 March, Moscow's flights with Barcelona, Burgas, Frankfurt, Heraklion, Munich, Thessaloniki and Zurich will be suspended.
过安检需要摘下口罩防护服。
Remove mask protective clothing for security clearance.
”此外，还有很多“回国群”变成了机票代理售卖群，一张荷兰转机回国的航班公务舱机票被买到了近5万元一张。
Other groups turned into ticket agents, and a business-class ticket for a Dutch flight home was bought for nearly 50,000 yuan.
航班、包机还是公务机？北京时间3月15日13：07，一架国航波音747-400客机从首都机场起飞，执行北京—米兰—温州—北京包机任务。
An Air China Boeing 747-400 took off from the capital at 13: 07 a.m. Beijing time on a Beijing-Milan-Wenzhou-Beijing charter flight.
这架飞机的两舱布局最大载客量为524人，相对与有回国需求的海外华人而言仍是杯水车薪。
With a maximum capacity of 524 passengers, the aircraft is still a tiny fraction of the overseas Chinese who need to return home.
目前，有些海外华人考虑通过各种途径组织包机回国。
At present, some overseas Chinese consider various ways to organize the return of charter flights.
一位伦敦留学生向界面新闻记者表示，学校学联帮忙联系了国内民航A330客机，从伦敦直飞天津，经济舱票价1400英镑，商务舱3000英镑。
A London student told the Interface News that the school federation had helped contact the domestic airline A330, which flies directly from London to Tianjin for ￡1,400 in economy class and ￡3,000 in business class.
留学生家长也成立了包机群，统计回国需求，希望凑够人数包架飞机回国。
Parents of foreign students also set up a group of charters to count the needs for repatriation, hoping to assemble enough charter flights home.
利用欧洲华人回国心切，一些不法分子开始用虚假航班信息趁机诈骗牟利。
Taking advantage of the return of European Chinese, some illegal elements began to use false flight information to profit from fraud.
3月13日，吉祥航空发布声明称，目前未接收到任何波士顿回国商业包机合作需求。
On March 13, auspicious Airways issued a statement, said that at present did not receive any Boston return to commercial air charter cooperation needs.
国内一家航空公司工作人员对界面新闻表示，”确实收到了许多欧洲留学生家长提出的包机需求，但个人自行包机类型的审批程序很复杂。
"We do receive many requests from parents of European students for charter flights, but the approval process for individual charter types is complex," one domestic airline staff told Interface News.
航空公司目前还是以保障正常航班为主。
Airlines are still focused on ensuring regular flights.
”3月4日，民航局宣布对疫情期间不停航和复航的国际航班给予奖励政策，政策执行期限为2020年1月23日至2020年6月30日。
On March 4, the Civil Aviation Administration announced an incentive policy for international flights that did not stop or resume flights during the epidemic period, with a policy period of 23 January 2020 to 30 June 2020.
奖励标准分成两档：共飞航班每座公里0.0176元，独飞航班每座公里0.0528元。
The award criteria are divided into two stages: 0.0176 yuan per kilometre for each flight and 0.0528 yuan per kilometre for solo flights.
得益于民航局奖励政策和市场需求，航空公司逐渐恢复了部分国际航线。
Thanks to the Civil Aviation Administration's incentive policy and market demand, airlines gradually restored some international routes.
其中，南航计划逐步恢复广州至澳新、北美、欧洲、东南亚等多个地区的国际客运航班，其中欧洲航线方面，从3月22日起，南航计划将广州至伦敦航线恢复至每周4班，每周1、3、5、7执行。
Among them, China Southern plans to gradually restore international passenger flights from Guangzhou to New Zealand, North America, Europe and Southeast Asia. On the European route, from March 22, China Southern plans to resume flights from Guangzhou to London to four flights a week, running at 1, 3, 5 and 7 per week.
东航方面从3月15日起恢复了多条国际航线。
China Eastern resumed international flights on March 15.
其中欧洲航线上恢复了浦东—巴黎、浦东—阿姆斯特丹、浦东—法兰克福、浦东—伦敦等航线。
Among these routes, Pudong-Paris, Pudong-Amsterdam, Pudong-Frankfurt, Pudong-London were restored.
除了传统的民航固定航班和包机航班外，得益于快捷私密等优势，公务机成为华人回国的热门选项。
In addition to the traditional civil aviation fixed and charter flights, due to the advantages of fast and private, business aircraft become a popular option for Chinese to return home.
3月14日，金鹿航空推出了3月18日伦敦-日内瓦-上海航线的787公务机行程，共40个座位，单个座位售价18万元起，迅速卖光。
On March 14, Taurus launched its 787 business trip on the London-Geneva-Shanghai route on March 18, offering a total of 40 seats and selling for $180,000 a seat.
一位公务机从业人员称，“目前公务机包机一天一个价格，机场和出入境政策也在随时改变，旅客需求大增，平台飞机包机业务已经安排到一周以后了。
"Business jet charter flights now cost a day, airport and immigration policies are changing at any time, passenger demand has increased and platform charter operations have been scheduled for a week," said a business jet operator.
”一张报价单显示，公务包机回国单座的价格至少在10万以上。
A quotation shows that official charter flights cost at least 100,000 a seat back home.
3月19日伦敦直飞上海，15万一人；3月22日13座庞巴迪环球快车5000伦敦—上海浦东每座12万。
London will fly directly to Shanghai on March 19th, one hundred and fifty thousand people. On March 22, 13 Bombardier's Global Express will fly to London 5000 - 120,000 each.
但随着国内防疫政策不断升级，公务机或将面临入境限制。
However, with the continuous upgrading of domestic immunization policy, civil servants may face restrictions on entry.
目前，首都机场方面已宣布，暂停受理国际（含港澳台地区）进港公务机保障任务，恢复时间另行通知。
At present, the capital airport has announced that the suspension of international (including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) into Hong Kong civil aircraft guarantee mission, recovery time to be announced.
严防境外输入风险目前入境国际航班仍然较分散，涉及全国24个机场，面临着较大的管控压力更大。
At present, inbound international flights are still relatively scattered, involving 24 airports across the country, facing greater control pressure.
飞常准数据显示，3月14日国内承接疫区航班的机场数量达到10个，其中首都机场疫区航班量最多，达到8个；上海两机场以5个疫区航班量位居第二。
According to statistics, on March 14, the number of airports in China receiving flights from affected areas reached 10, with the capital having the highest number of flights, with eight, and Shanghai having the second highest number of flights in five affected areas.
此外，广州白云、哈尔滨太平、延吉朝阳川以日均2个疫区航班量排名第三。
In addition, Guangzhou Baiyun, Harbin Taiping, Yanji Chaoyang Chuan ranked third in the daily average of 2 affected areas.
机场作为防止境外疫情输入的关键口岸，目前已经执行了非常严格防疫措施。
Airport as a key port to prevent the importation of epidemic diseases, has implemented very strict epidemic prevention measures.
首都机场方面，全部国际及地区进港航班，均停靠首都机场处置专区。
For the Capital Airport, all international and regional inbound flights call at the Capital Airport Disposal Zone.
旅客经由海关进行测温等检疫排查，边检办理入境手续，非中转旅客在专属休息区等候摆渡车前往新国展旅客接驳区；中转旅客在办理完中转手续后，再前往专属休息区候机。
Passengers go through quarantine checks such as temperature measurement, border check-in procedures, non-stop passengers waiting in the exclusive lounge area for ferry departure to the New China International Exhibition Passenger Connection Area. After completing the transfer formalities, the transfer passengers will proceed to the exclusive lounge waiting area.
上海方面则要求，从3月13日零点起，凡是在进入上海之日前14天内，有过韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本、法国、西班牙、德国、美国等国家旅行或居住史的所有中外人员，一律实施居家或集中隔离健康观察。
Shanghai, for its part, has required all Chinese and foreign personnel with a history of travel or residence in South Korea, Italy, Iran, Japan, France, Spain, Germany and the United States to carry out home-based or centralized health surveillance within 14 days before the date of entry into Shanghai.
在3月15日召开的北京市新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，国航海外疫情防控组成员张允介绍称，3月1日至3月15日滚动统计，国航“境外进京”航班在登机前因体温超标暂不运输旅客76人，涉及23个航班。
Zhang Yun, a member of the Air China Overseas Coronavirus Prevention and Control Programme, said at a press conference on March 15, 2006. According to statistics from March 1 to March 15, 76 passengers and 23 flights were suspended due to excessive body temperature before boarding on Air China's overseas flights.
3月1日至3月15日滚动统计，国航机组执行境外进京航班，飞行途中检测体温超标落地移交检疫67人（涉及44个航班）。
Between March 1 and March 15, 2008, the Air China flight crew carried out overseas flights to Beijing, with 67 people (involving 44 flights) having their body temperature exceed the standards on the ground.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一张机票18万?欧洲华人深陷回国难题。
One plane ticket 180,000? The Chinese in Europe are in deep trouble.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "一张机票18万?欧洲华人深陷回国难题";。
var msg _ title = & quot; a plane ticket of 180,000? Chinese Europeans are at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "金鹿航空推出了3月18日伦敦-日内瓦-上海航线的787公务机行程，共40个座位，单个座位售价18万元起，迅速卖光。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
