国内日产口罩过亿只，生产企业纷纷谋求出口。
Domestic production of 100 million masks, manufacturers have sought to export.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼 编辑：许悦“ 有企业口罩还没生产出来，也想要出口。
Journalist: Xu Miao: "There is a company mask has not been produced, also want to export.
”根据美国约翰·霍布金斯大学数据显示，截至美国东部时间14日20时15分，全球累计确诊156102例。
A total of 15,6102 cases were diagnosed worldwide by 2015 Eastern Time, according to John Hobkins University.
而全球范围内的疫情爆发，也带来世界范围内的口罩供应危机。
The worldwide outbreak has also led to a worldwide crisis in the supply of masks.
美国当地时间3月5日，美国贸易代表办公室公布了对美国中国3000亿美元加征关税商品A清单下产品公告，包含口罩、医用手套等医疗防护产品，排除类型均为完全排除。
On March 5, the US Trade Representative's office announced the US $300 billion tariff plus tariff on US-China products under A list, including medical protection products such as masks and medical gloves, all of which are completely excluded.
这也意味着，这些产品自排除生效之日起，1年内免加征7.5%的关税。
This also means that these products are exempt from a 7.5 per cent tariff for one year from the date of entry into force of the exclusion.
中国一直是口罩出口大国，而在国内新冠疫情率先爆发后，不少企业扩产、转产口罩生产。
China has been a major exporter of face masks, and after the outbreak of the new crown in China, many enterprises have expanded production and switched to mask production.
据赛柏蓝统计，在去年12月份暴发新冠疫情后，截至3月12日，有近20家药企新增口罩生产线，除此之外，中石化、富士康、上汽通用五菱，甚至童装品牌“小猪班纳”等企业也跨界转产口罩。
According to Cyber Blue, nearly 20 companies added masks to their production lines as of March 12, in addition to companies such as Sinopec, Foxconn, SAIC General Wuling and even the children's clothing brand Piggy Banner.
国家发改委消息称，2月29日，包括普通口罩、医用口罩、医用N95口罩在内，全国口罩日产能达到1.1亿只，日产量达到1.16亿只，分别是2月1日的5.2倍和12倍，进一步缓解了口罩供需矛盾。
The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) said on February 29, including ordinary masks, medical masks and N95 face masks, there was a daily production capacity of 110 million masks and 116 million daily production, 5.2 times and 12 times that of February 1 respectively, further easing the gap between supply and demand for masks.
企业扩产、转产由此也带来了国内市场产能供应过剩的情况。
The expansion and conversion of enterprises has also led to an oversupply of capacity in the domestic market.
随着新冠疫情在全球范围内的发展，国内口罩生产企业也将目光放到全球范围内口罩紧缺国家的市场。
With the global development of the new crown epidemic, domestic mask manufacturers are also looking at the global market in countries facing a shortage of masks.
包括长荣股份、新纶科技在内的上市公司发布公告表示，公司将产能在满足国内需求后也将对外出口。
Listed companies, including Evergreen and Polyurethane, have announced that they will export capacity to meet domestic demand.
来自国内口罩重要产地湖北仙桃的口罩生产企业工作人员郭先生接受界面新闻采访时表示，在国内订单趋于平稳的情况下，进行询价的多是出口订单，而其中以意大利、西班牙等疫情较为严重地区询价的需求最为突出。
Guo, a mask-maker from Hubei Xiantao, an important producer of Chinese masks, told the Interface News that while domestic orders tend to level off, export orders tend to make inquiries, with the demand most acute in areas with more severe outbreaks such as Italy and Spain.
“国内国外两个市场感觉是分裂的，一方面国外需求爆发，一方面国内前期新增产能因为缺乏出口资质，出不去，国内开始降价。
"Both domestic and foreign markets feel fragmented, with foreign demand erupting and domestic prices starting to fall because of a lack of export qualifications in the early stages of domestic production."
”郭先生表示，其所在工厂目前生产的订单仍然主要以政府订单为主，将少数余量进行出口。
Mr Guo said orders for production at his plant were still mainly government orders, with a small amount of spare parts being exported.
虽然其所在的工厂口罩在此次疫情前就完成了欧盟CE认证，可以出口欧盟。
Although its plant mask before the outbreak completed the EU CE certification, can be exported to the European Union.
但是郭先生表示出口订单一直以来只占到全部订单非常小的一部分，公司仍然缺少外贸易经验，而这也是大多数口罩企业共同面对的问题。
But Mr. Guo says export orders have been a very small part of all orders, and the company still lacks the foreign trade experience that most mask companies face.
如果国内企业想要把口罩出口到欧盟，需要同第三方检测认证服务机构合作，由第三方检测机构将企业产品送检查、准备申报材料，将申报材料递交到CE认证机构。
If domestic companies want to export masks to the European Union, they need to cooperate with third-party testing and certification services. Third-party inspection agencies send their products to the EU for inspection, prepare declarations and forward them to the CE certification body.
而近期口罩出口需求的增多也直接拉动了第三方检测认证服务的订单数量。
The recent increase in demand for mask exports has also directly boosted the number of orders for third-party certification services.
浙江温州一位第三方检测认证服务机构的的工作人员表示，从3月7日和8日起，公司平均每天收到四、五十个订单，“此前做认证的都是机械类产品，几乎没有做口罩认证的。
From March 7 and 8, the company received an average of 40 to 50 orders a day, according to a staff member at Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, where 'previously certified mechanical products with little or no mask certification.
”而由于欧洲疫情原因，部分CE认证机构已经停止发证了，欧盟认证服务的价格也随之水涨船高，由原来的几千元涨至1万多。
As a result of the European outbreak, some CE certification authorities have stopped issuing licenses and prices for EU certification services have risen from a few thousand yuan to more than 10,000 yuan.
但这些也没有阻挡国内企业想要出海的热情。
But they have not dampened the zeal of domestic companies to get out to sea.
“市场上现在还有涨到3、4万的，毕竟现在市场供求这么紧张。
"There are still 30,000 or 40,000 left in the market, because the market is so tight right now.
”而CE认证通常的时间需要7-15个工作日。
CE certification typically takes seven to 15 working days.
而该工作人员表示，老板已经通知，如果订单进一步增加，就需要暂停服务。
The staff member said the boss had advised that the service would need to be suspended if orders were to increase further.
“和我们合作的认证机构由于我们订单数量多，也已经开始暂停接我们的单了。
"The certification authority with which we are working has also suspended the receipt of our order due to the large number of orders.
”不止口罩生产企业来询问出口认证的情况，该工作人员表示，近期也有温州当地的无纺布企业、服装生产企业来咨询口罩出口情况，“甚至有些企业，口罩都没生产出来，就过来咨询，来看看能不能做这块儿的生意。
More than just mask makers are asking about export certifications, the official said, adding that Wenzhou-based nonwoven enterprises and garment manufacturers have recently come to consult about the export of masks.
”猛增的出口需求，也带来相应的风险。
The surge in export demand has brought its own risks.
上述第三方认证行业工作人员表示，其在和生产企业沟通时，也会明确告知，CE证书的真实性可以保障，但是不能保证产品能够百分百出口，“具体也要看国内外海关的要求。
The third-party certification industry said it would also make it clear to producers that the authenticity of CE certificates was guaranteed, but there was no guarantee that 100 per cent of products would be exported, "depending on customs requirements at home and abroad.
”另外，3月15日广东省医疗器械管理委员也发布了《广东省口罩等防控医疗器械产品投产建议及指引》，该文件中也明确，外销产品需获得各个地区的相关认证，认证时间周期较长，具有较大的市场风险，因此建议广大企业应在充分调研市场现状，并充分考虑生产环境、设备、原材料、人员、技术等因素后，全面审度自身条件，审慎投产。
In addition, on March 15, the Guangdong Provincial Medical Device Management Commission issued the "Recommendations and Guidelines on the Production of Medical Device Products such as Mask in Guangdong Province." The document also specifies that exported products need to obtain relevant certification from various regions.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
国内日产口罩过亿只，生产企业纷纷谋求出口。
Domestic production of 100 million masks, manufacturers have sought to export.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "国内日产口罩过亿只，生产企业纷纷谋求出口";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "有企业口罩还没生产出来，也想要出口。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; company masks were not manufactured and wanted to be exported.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
