英国医学家：群体免疫将是一个难以想象的复杂过程。
British medical scientist: Group immunization will be an incredibly complex process.
王磬。
Chime with Wang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：王磬“ “英国政府大概是设想了一下九个月后的情况。
"The British government is probably imagining the situation nine months later," he said.
如果在九个月的时间内我们没有合适的疗法或者疫苗，那么可以想象，许多国家或许仍会爆发疫情。
If we do not have the right treatment or vaccine in nine months, it is conceivable that many countries may still have outbreaks.
这种大流行病仍将会在世界上广泛传播，但如果英国遵循群体免疫的策略，或许在那时已度过了最糟糕的时期。
The pandemic will continue to spread around the world, but Britain may have passed its worst by then if it had followed a crowd-immunization strategy.
””英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊提出了“群体免疫”的防疫思路后，不仅引发了国际舆论哗然，也在英国国内激起了科学家们的争论。
"Boris Johnson, the British prime minister, raised international public opinion and sparked debate within Britain over the idea of a" mass immunization "policy.
马丁·希伯德（Martin Hibberd）是伦敦卫生与热带医学学院新兴传染病教授、新加坡基因组研究所副所长。
Martin Hibberd is Professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and Deputy Director of the Singapore Institute of Genomics.
他长期研究传染病并有多项学术发表。
He has a long history of infectious diseases and many scholarly publications.
近日，希伯德就英国的新冠防疫状况接受了界面新闻的专访，提到新加坡的经验，并认为“群体免疫”策略将是一个难以想象的复杂过程。
In a recent interview with Interface News about Britain's new crown immunization status, Hebrews spoke of Singapore's experience and said the "mass immunization" strategy would be an incredibly complex process.
以下是访谈全文，刊发时有编辑。
The full text of the interview is available as an editor.
界面新闻：约翰逊首相认为，想要彻底扼杀病毒已经不太可能，唯有缓慢地通过自然感染令英国国民获得群体免疫（herd immunity），才能渡过疫情。
Interface News: According to Prime Minister Johnson, it is no longer possible to kill the virus at all, but only by slowly allowing people to pass through the epidemic through natural infections that give them group immunity.
你如何看待英国的这种防疫思路？希伯德：英国的思路并不完全清晰，政府对此也不够透明。
How do you feel about this kind of cordon sanitaire in Britain? Hebrew: The British idea is not entirely clear, and the government is not transparent about it.
但我乐意对此给出我的解释。
But I would be happy to give my explanation.
群体免疫是一个方法论上的选择。
Group immunization is a methodological choice.
对于流行病学家来说，它并不是一个不寻常的概念——压平流行曲线、分散病例，避免医院在短时间内承受不过来。
For epidemiologists, it is not an unusual concept - smoothing out popular curves, spreading cases, and avoiding hospitals becoming overwhelmed in a short period of time.
英国政府的假设是将会出现非常多的病例，他们想让情况尽可能在能够管理的范围内。
The British government's assumption is that there will be a very high number of cases and they want to keep things as manageable as possible.
在中国，人们可能认为这是像SARS一样，需要付出很多努力、在短期内控制住它。
In China, people may think that this is like SARS, which requires a lot of effort to control it in the short term.
这在中国取得了很大的成功。
This has been a great success in China.
目前中国已经控制住了境内的新病例传播，但是仍然容易出现境外输入病例。
China has been able to contain the spread of new cases, but is still vulnerable to imported cases.
所以中国现在也不能彻底放松。
So China can't completely relax now either.
这种高度紧张的策略要持续到什么时候呢？要等到我们有了有效的治疗方法、或者疫苗。
How long will this high-stress strategy continue until we have an effective treatment, or a vaccine?
疫苗一般需要18个月。
Vaccines generally take 18 months.
这个过程耗时很长。
This process takes a long time.
对英国来说，中国的方法是艰巨且难以实施的。
For Britain, China's approach is difficult and difficult to implement.
政府担心，民众将很难长期忍受这种遏制政策（containment）。
The government fears that it will be difficult for the population to endure such containment for long.
政府要想避免巨大的伤亡，还有一个办法，就是避免在短时间内发生医疗资源挤兑。
Another way for the government to avoid massive casualties is to avoid a run on medical resources any time soon.
政府想让这些原来可能在1-2个月内集中出现的病例，分散到6-9个月之中，让高峰出现在夏季。
The government wants to spread the cases, which could have been concentrated within a month or two, over a period of six to nine months, with peaks in summer.
因为夏季是流感淡季，NHS（国家医疗服务体系）有相对充足的资源可以应付新增的新冠病人。
Because summer is the low season for flu, the NHS (National Health Service) has relatively ample resources to handle the addition of new crown patients.
等冬天流感季再到来的时候，人群的60%-70已经感染过了新冠病毒，便能受到抗体的保护，不需要去医院了。
By the time the winter flu season arrives, 60% to 70% of the population will have been infected with the new crown virus, protected by antibodies and no need to go to the hospital.
但如果现在已经采取了更严格的管制措施，便可能将高峰期推迟到夏季之后，NHS将处境艰难。
But if stricter controls are put in place now, the NHS could find itself in a difficult position to postpone its peak until after summer.
界面新闻：设想这个策略奏效了。
Interface News: Imagine this strategy works.
你预计需要到什么时候，英国才会拥有群体免疫？希伯德：如果我对这个政策的理解正确，它的目的应该是在冬季达成群体免疫。
Hebrews: If I understand this policy correctly, the goal should be to achieve mass immunization in the winter.
也就是，在今年11、12月之前，有60%的人口感染上病毒。
That is, by November or December this year, 60 percent of the population was infected with the virus.
界面新闻：群体免疫相当于说让整体人群在病毒面前自然暴露，那些本来就脆弱的群体会因此变得更加脆弱。
Interface News: Community immunization is the equivalent of exposing entire populations to the virus, making those who are already vulnerable more vulnerable.
英国有6600万人，世卫组织预测的covid-19死亡率在3%-4%之间。
There are 66 million people in the UK, and the WHO estimates that the covid-19 mortality rate is between 3% and 4%.
这是否意味着将有大量的人会提前死去？希伯德：英国政府在努力给脆弱人群优先保护，并针对他们进行社会隔离。
Does this mean that large numbers of people will die prematurely? Hebrew: The British government is trying to give priority to the vulnerable and isolate them from society.
我认为这是十分重要的，不管现在的政策是否成功。
I think that is very important, regardless of the success of current policies.
政策的目的是，让受影响较小的人群来建立群体免疫，然后希望这将保护更脆弱的人群。
The aim of the policy is to reach out to less affected populations to build mass immunization, which it is hoped will protect the more vulnerable.
但这当然是一个难以想象的复杂过程。
But this is, of course, an incredibly complex process.
界面新闻：一个批评是，covid-19是一种新出现的病毒，很多特性尚不为人了解，采用群体免疫的风险很高。
Interface News: One criticism is that covid-19 is an emerging virus, many of which are not yet understood, and there is a high risk of adopting mass immunization.
例如，被传染后是否能够直接获得免疫力？如果病毒出现了变异，之前获得的免疫力是否还仍然有效？希伯德：已经有越来越多的证据表明，被感染后人们会产生保护性免疫反应。
For example, is immunity directly available after infection? If the virus mutates, does the immunity it acquired remain valid? Hebrew: There is growing evidence that people develop protective immune responses after infection.
我们一直在寻求免疫学的测试，期待回答两个问题：第一就是人们将获得怎样的免疫力？是一段特定时间、还是终生的？第二是，现在有许多无症状患者，甚至都不知道自己被感染了，当前有许多讨论：这些人到底占感染总数的多少？英国政府认为潜在感染者多达10000人，但是由于没有足够的测试，我们不知道该数字是否准确。
We've been looking for immunological tests, hoping to answer two questions: first, what immunity will people have, at a particular time, or for a lifetime? Second, there are many asymptomatic patients who do not even know they are infected.
目前尚无人关注人群里的抗体反应。
There is no known antibody response in populations of concern.
这是一种常规的流行病学工具，可用来确定感染人群的比例。
It is a conventional epidemiological tool that can be used to determine the proportion of infected persons.
关于变异，covid-19总体来说变化不大。
With regard to variation, covid-19 in general has not changed much.
一般而言，每种病毒都会发生变化，它很易感、并且已经传染了很多人。
In general, each virus changes, it is susceptible, and it has infected many people.
我们确实观察到了一些细微的变化，但尚无证据显示它将有免疫学意义上的剧烈变化，至少这种变化不会在短期内发生。
We do observe subtle changes, but there is no evidence that they will have dramatic changes in immunological significance, at least not in the short term.
我们每年其实也都在观察其他的冠状病毒，这些病毒会引起普通感冒，而且变化不大。
Every year, we actually observe other coronavirus, which causes a common cold, but with little change.
我认为目前没有特定的驱动可以改变病毒。
I don't think there is a specific driver that can change the virus.
界面新闻：您也在新加坡担任教职，新加坡的防疫跟英国有没有什么不同？新加坡现在看起来控制得不错，它的模式有可能在欧洲奏效吗？希伯德：新加坡跟英国的预设有个很大的不同。
What's the difference between Singapore and the UK Singapore now seems to be in control, and is its model likely to work in EuropeHebrew: Singapore is very different from the UK.
刚才提到的英国策略里隐含了英国政府的一个判断：九个月之内想要通过疫苗或药物完全控制病毒是不可能的，只能依赖人群的免疫力。
Implicit in the British strategy just mentioned is the British government's judgment that complete control of the virus by vaccine or drug within nine months is impossible and depends on the immunity of the population.
因此要推“群体免疫”。
So we have to push "mass immunization."
但新加坡其实是在期待：六个月的时间里会有某种疗法。
But Singapore is really looking forward to some sort of cure within six months.
在此之前他们采取限制/围堵/遏制政策。
Prior to that, they adopted a policy of restraint / containment / containment.
所以他们正试图防止疫情在这六个月中爆发，在尽可能长的时间内保持尽可能小的感染数量。
So they are trying to prevent the outbreak from erupting in the next six months, keeping the number of infections as low as possible for as long as possible.
因此，新加坡在追踪密切接触者方面投入了大量资源。
As a result, Singapore has invested considerable resources in tracking close contacts.
政府官网上会将病例按群聚归类，民众都可以看到。
Cases will be clustered online by government officials and will be visible to the public.
他们还进行广泛的追踪与测试，对呈阳性者会很快隔离。
They also carry out extensive follow-up and testing, and those who test positive are quickly isolated.
我认为这就是遏制的策略：将确诊的人尽快隔离。
I think that's the strategy of containment: isolate those who are diagnosed as soon as possible.
新加坡的收治措施使大多数人对战胜疾病充满信心。
Treatment in Singapore has given most people confidence in fighting disease.
这样一来，就不会出现恐慌性抢购或过度反应，因为人们对政府的做法有信心。
As a result, panic buying or overreaction would not occur, as people were confident in the government's approach.
但我发现许多欧洲国家的情况都与之不同，不光是英国。
But I find that the situation is different in many European countries, not just in Britain.
我曾希望我们可以有一些类似的举措，但目前看来我们还没有这样做。
I had hoped that we could do something similar, but it does not seem that we have done so yet.
确诊数字会在某个时候迅速增长。
The number of confirmed cases will grow rapidly at some point.
英国的疫情发展已经达到了与此前的中国相仿的水平，而中国在那时已经采取了非常多的措施。
The epidemic in the UK has reached a level similar to that in China, where much has been done.
我们应该立即采取措施。
We should take immediate measures.
否则这些措施的影响力将越来越小。
Otherwise, the impact of these measures will diminish.
如果在英国在有10000个病例时才宣布要有行动，那么或许，检测与隔离所有这10000个案例就已经是一个挑战。
If action is announced in the UK only with 10,000 cases, then perhaps testing and isolating all 10,000 cases is already a challenge.
界面新闻：在你看来，英国政府最终为什么会做出这样的决定？这会不会影响到各国对英国人的看法——来自一个六七成人口都感染了传染病毒的国家？希伯德：英国政府大概是设想了一下九个月后的情况。
Interface News: Why, in your view, did the British government ultimately make such a decision? Would it affect how countries view the British - a country where 60-70% of the population is infected with infectious diseases? Hebrew: The British government is probably imagining a situation nine months from now.
如果在九个月的时间内我们没有合适的疗法或者疫苗，那么可以想象，许多国家或许仍会爆发疫情。
If we do not have the right treatment or vaccine in nine months, it is conceivable that many countries may still have outbreaks.
这种大流行病仍将会在世界上广泛传播，但如果英国遵循群体免疫的策略，或许在那时已度过了最糟糕的时期。
The pandemic will continue to spread around the world, but Britain may have passed its worst by then if it had followed a crowd-immunization strategy.
我们将是做得最好的，因为我们已经度过了整个周期。
We will do the best we can, because we have gone through the whole cycle.
因此，到那个阶段，我们在英国已经确诊并收治了所有病例的大多数。
So by that stage we had diagnosed and treated the majority of all cases in the UK.
作为一个英国公民，感染之后休息两三周，便可以得到终身保护，可以在世界各地旅行而不担心会传播疾病。
A British citizen who takes two or three weeks off after an infection is protected for life and can travel around the world without fear of spreading disease.
当然，政策也会不断跟随现实改变。
Of course, policy will continue to change in line with reality.
例如当下就有不少关于是否关闭学校的讨论：关闭学校真的有期待中的益处吗？流感相关研究的数据表明，即使儿童不在学校，依旧会在家中和他们的朋友们在一起。
For example, there is much discussion these days about whether or not to close schools: Do schools really have the expected benefits? Influenza-related data show that even when children are not in school, they stay at home with their friends.
我觉得我们需要讨论一下如果孩子们不在家里的时候，或许他们是和照顾他们的爷爷奶奶待着的。
I think we need to talk about if the kids aren't at home, maybe they're with their grandparents.
这可能也不是件好事。
This may not be a good thing either.
（感谢杨溢对本文的贡献）未经授权 禁止转载。
(Thanks to Yang Yingyi for his contribution to this article) Unauthorized reprinting is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
英国医学家：群体免疫将是一个难以想象的复杂过程。
British medical scientist: Group immunization will be an incredibly complex process.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "英国医学家：群体免疫将是一个难以想象的复杂过程";。
var msg _ title = & quot; British medical scientist: Group immunization will be an incredibly complex process & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“英国政府大概是设想了一下九个月后的情况。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "The British government probably imagined nine months from now.
如果在九个月的时间内我们没有合适的疗法或者疫苗，那么可以想象，许多国家或许仍会爆发疫情。
If we do not have the right treatment or vaccine in nine months, it is conceivable that many countries may still have outbreaks.
这种大流行病仍将会在世界上广泛传播，但如果英国遵循群体免疫的策略，或许在那时已度过了最糟糕的时期。
The pandemic will continue to spread around the world, but Britain may have passed its worst by then if it had followed a crowd-immunization strategy.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
