中国是否考虑完全禁止外来人员入境？官方回应。
Is China considering a complete ban on foreign nationals? An official response.
牛其昌。
Niu Qichang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ 截至目前，中国民航局共执行13架次赴疫情严重国家的运输任务，其中安排7架次临时航班接回中国公民1101人。
Source: Visual China "Up to now, China's Civil Aviation Administration has carried out 13 transport missions to countries with severe epidemics, in which 7 temporary flights were arranged to bring back 1,101 Chinese citizens.
”记者：牛其昌2020年3月16日下午，国务院联防联控机制就依法防控境外疫情输入有关情况举行发布会。
Reporter: Niu Qichang March 16, 2020 afternoon, the State Council Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism on the prevention and control of overseas epidemic input into the situation held a press conference.
海关总署政策法规司司长王军表示，目前国内疫情防控形势持续向好，但是境外疫情却在加速扩散，“外防输入”已经成为当前我国疫情防控的重中之重。
The General Administration of Customs Director General Wang Jun said that the situation of domestic epidemic prevention and control continues to improve, but the overseas epidemic is accelerating, "foreign defense input" has become a top priority in China's epidemic prevention and control.
据国家卫健委通报，截至3月15日24时，我国累计报告境外输入确诊病例已达123例，其中3月15日0—24时，新增报告境外输入确诊病例12例（北京4例，广东4例，上海2例，云南1例，甘肃1例）。
As of 2400 hours on March 15, 123 confirmed cases had been reported from outside the country, including 12 newly confirmed cases from overseas (4 cases from Beijing, 4 cases from Guangdong, 2 cases from Shanghai, 1 case from Yunnan and 1 case from Gansu).
国家移民管理局边防检查管理司司长刘海涛在新闻发布会上介绍，3月11日世界卫生组织宣布新冠肺炎疫情为全球大流行，从这个时间节点以来，全国陆、海、空口岸入境人员日均在12万人次，与去年同期相比下降了八成多。
Since March 11, when the World Health Organization declared the new crown pneumonia epidemic a global pandemic, the country's land, sea and air ports of entry have seen 120,000 people entering the country each day, a drop of more than 80 percent over the same period last year, Liu Haitao, director of the State Administration of Migration's Border Inspection and Management, said at a news conference.
其中，乘国际航班入境的人员日均2万人次，外国人占比一成左右。
Among them, the average number of people entering China by international flights is 20,000 per day, and the proportion of foreigners is about 10 percent.
3月16日，最高法等五部门联合发布《关于进一步加强国境卫生检疫工作依法惩治妨害国境卫生检疫违法犯罪的意见》（下称“意见”），要求进一步加强国境卫生检疫工作，依法惩治妨害国境卫生检疫违法犯罪行为。
On March 16, the Supreme Court and other government departments jointly issued the Opinions on Further Strengthening Frontier Health and Quarantine Work to Punish Illegal Violations of Frontier Health and Quarantine according to Law (hereinafter referred to as the Opinions), and called for further strengthening of frontier health and quarantine work and punishment for illegal acts that obstruct the health and quarantine of border areas.
王军表示，《意见》要求各部门在办理妨害国境卫生检疫案件时要准确理解和适用法律，并列举了六类妨害国境卫生检疫行为，实施这些行为如果引起检疫传染病传播或者有严重传播危险的，将依照刑法以“妨害国境卫生检疫罪”定罪处罚。
The Opinions require departments to understand and apply the law accurately when handling cases of obstruction of frontier health and quarantine, and list six types of acts that obstruct the health and quarantine of the frontier. If such acts cause the spread of quarantinable infectious diseases or pose a serious risk of spreading, they will be convicted and punished with "crimes against the health and quarantine of the frontier."
界面新闻注意到，上述六种行为包括拒绝执行健康申报、体温监测、医学巡查、流行病学调查、医学排查、采样等卫生检疫措施，或者隔离、留验、就地诊验、转诊等卫生处理措施的，以及采取不如实填报健康申明卡等方式隐瞒疫情，或者伪造、涂改检疫单、证等方式伪造情节的。
The Interface News notes that the above-mentioned six acts include refusing to carry out sanitary quarantine measures such as health declaration, temperature monitoring, medical inspection, epidemiological investigation, medical check-up, sampling, or sanitization measures such as isolation, detention, on-site examination and referral, as well as concealment of epidemic information by means of false health declaration cards or falsification, alteration of quarantine certificates or certificates.
王军介绍，一些入境人员采取各种手段拒绝申报，或者不如实申报健康状况，不配合体温监测，甚至有人采取吃退烧药等方式降低体温，掩盖发热症状，在海关卫生检疫环节蒙混过关，入境以后被确诊为新冠肺炎，导致与其密切接触的人员被感染或者被隔离观察，给公共卫生安全造成重大风险。
Some immigration officials refused to declare or declare their health status, did not cooperate with temperature monitoring, and even took anti-fever drugs to lower their body temperature, cover up their fever, muddle through customs sanitary and quarantine procedures, and were diagnosed with pneumonia after entering the country.
“怀着侥幸心理逃避海关检疫，不仅要承受全社会的舆论谴责，还将面临牢狱之灾。
"To avoid customs quarantine with a sense of luck is not only to bear the condemnation of the whole society, but also to face the disaster of jail.
”王军表示。
"said Wang.
有记者问，随着海外疫情持续扩散，许多华人希望尽早返回国内。
A reporter asked, as the overseas epidemic continues to spread, many Chinese want to return home as soon as possible.
对此，中国政府是否会考虑包机从一些重点国家撤侨？对此，中国民用航空局飞行标准司司长朱涛表示，3月4日起至今，民航局在正常航班运行基础之上，对一些需求集中、飞行目的地有接收能力的城市，视情启动了重大航空运输保障机制，开行临时班机或包机。
In response, will the Chinese government consider chartering planes to evacuate overseas Chinese from some key countriesZhu Tao, director of the Flight Standards Department of the Civil Aviation Administration, said that since March 4, the Civil Aviation Administration has launched a major air transport security mechanism and conducted temporary or chartered flights on the basis of regular flights to some cities with centralized demand and receiving capacity for flight destinations.
截至目前，中国民航局共执行13架次赴疫情严重国家的运输任务，其中安排7架次临时航班接回中国公民1101人，执行援外专家组运输任务1架次，运送专家9人，物资11.09吨，执行援外物资运输任务5架次，运输物资78.45吨。
So far, China's Civil Aviation Administration has carried out 13 transport missions to countries with serious epidemics, including seven temporary flights to bring back 1,101 Chinese citizens, one transport mission by a group of foreign aid experts, nine experts, 11.09 tons of supplies, five missions to transport foreign aid and 78.45 tons of supplies.
朱涛表示，下一步民航局将在国务院联防联控机制的指导下，根据实际需求适时安排此类飞行任务。
Zhu said that the next step in the Civil Aviation Administration under the guidance of the State Council Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, according to the actual needs of the timely arrangement of such missions.
针对在机场以及集中隔离点若发现入境旅客出现感染症状，是就地治疗还是会遣送回原来国家，国家卫健委新闻发言人米锋表示，如果集中观察期间出现相关情况，按照我国法律法规规定，相关人员将会立即被送往定点医院进行排查和诊治。
In response to the discovery of signs of infection at airports and centralized quarantine stations, local treatment or repatriation to the country of origin, National Health Commission spokesman Mifeng said that if the situation occurred during the concentrated observation period, in accordance with Chinese laws and regulations, the relevant personnel will be immediately sent to designated hospitals for screening and treatment.
对于目前北京采取的隔离措施是否会扩展到国内所有入境口岸，中国是否考虑完全禁止外来人员入境？米锋回应称，北京市已经采取了相关的措施，各地也将根据实际情况依法依规来采取相应的管理措施。
In response to a question on whether the current quarantine measures taken by Beijing will be extended to all ports of entry into the country, and whether China is considering a complete ban on the entry of foreign nationals, Mifeng responded that Beijing has taken relevant measures and that the local authorities will adopt corresponding management measures according to the actual situation.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国是否考虑完全禁止外来人员入境？官方回应。
Is China considering a complete ban on foreign nationals? An official response.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "中国是否考虑完全禁止外来人员入境？官方回应";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Has China considered imposing a complete ban on foreign nationals? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;?
var msg_desc = "截至目前，中国民航局共执行13架次赴疫情严重国家的运输任务，其中安排7架次临时航班接回中国公民1101人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; China's civil aviation authority has flown 13 missions to countries with severe epidemics so far, including seven temporary flights to take back 1,101 Chinese citizens.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
