应对境外疫情输入风险，北京小汤山定点医院今日启用。
Response to the risk of imported epidemic disease, Beijing Xiaotangshan Ding Hospital opened today.
邓煜洲 牟缇缇。
Yuk Chau Kutetti, Tang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：央视新闻记者：邓煜洲 牟缇缇 本文来源：央视新闻“ 为做好境外输入人员疫情防控工作，尽力保证市民正常工作生活秩序，北京市疫情防控领导小组决定，3月16日起，启用北京小汤山医院，主要用于境外来（返）京人员中需筛查人员、疑似病例及轻型、普通型确诊患者治疗。
Source: CCTV News: CCTV News: "To do a good job in preventing and controlling the disease and ensuring normal working and living order of citizens, the Leading Group on Prevention and Control of the Beijing Epidemic Prevention and Control decided to open the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital on March 16.
”当前新冠肺炎疫情正在扩散蔓延，北京作为重要的国际口岸，面临境外疫情输入的风险骤增。
The current outbreak of pneumonia is spreading, with Beijing, as an important international port, facing a sharp increase in the risk of imported cases.
为做好境外输入人员疫情防控工作，尽力保证市民正常工作生活秩序，北京市疫情防控领导小组决定，3月16日起，启用北京小汤山医院，主要用于境外来（返）京人员中需筛查人员、疑似病例及轻型、普通型确诊患者治疗。
The Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of Outbound Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV / AIDS) has decided to open the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital on March 16.
北京小汤山医院设床位1000余张，主要用于北京海关检疫后有风险人员的进一步医学筛查。
Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital has more than 1,000 beds and is mainly used for further medical screening of people at risk after Beijing Customs quarantine.
对确诊病例或疑似病例收进医院进行治疗，对筛查后未发现异常的旅客将由目的地省份以安全适宜方式运回本地，京内旅客由各区接回，实施集中隔离医学观察14天，实现闭环运行和管理。
Confirmed cases or suspected cases are admitted to the hospital for treatment, and passengers who are not found to be abnormal after screening will be transported back to their places of destination in a safe and appropriate manner by the provinces of destination.
小汤山医院扩建区域的病房设施、实验室检测、影像检查、消毒防护、污水处理、消防安全等所有设施均已验收合格。
The ward facilities, laboratory testing, imaging examination, disinfection protection, sewage treatment, fire safety and other facilities in the expanded area of Xiaotangshan Hospital have been accepted and accepted.
严格按照卫生防疫标准，完成了院内区域所有通道硬隔离，并设置单独出入口，实现各病区安全独立运行。
Strictly in accordance with the health and epidemic prevention standards, the hospital completed the area of all channels hard isolation, and set up a separate entrance, to achieve safe and independent operation of the disease areas.
从北京市属医院中选派了数百名医护人员，专业涵盖呼吸、感染、重症、急诊、儿科、中医、检验、放射、药剂等，已完成系统的业务及防护培训。
Hundreds of medical personnel have been selected from Beijing Hospital, specializing in respiratory, infectious, severe, emergency, paediatrics, Chinese medicine, examination, radiation, pharmacy, etc., and has completed the system's business and protection training.
北京小汤山医院已与其他北京市级新冠肺炎收治定点医院形成远程会诊机制，促进医疗协同，分享经验。
Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing has formed a remote consultation mechanism with other Beijing hospitals to promote medical cooperation and share experiences.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
应对境外疫情输入风险，北京小汤山定点医院今日启用。
Response to the risk of imported epidemic disease, Beijing Xiaotangshan Ding Hospital opened today.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "应对境外疫情输入风险，北京小汤山定点医院今日启用";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Responding to AT & quot; risk of an overseas outbreak; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "为做好境外输入人员疫情防控工作，尽力保证市民正常工作生活秩序，北京市疫情防控领导小组决定，3月16日起，启用北京小汤山医院，主要用于境外来（返）京人员中需筛查人员、疑似病例及轻型、普通型确诊患者治疗。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; To do a good job of preventing and controlling imported personnel and ensuring normal working and living order, Beijing's leading group for epidemic prevention and control decided on March 16 to open Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital, primarily for people from overseas who need to be screened, suspected cases and treated for mild, common cases.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
