连续五天单日新增过千，伊朗新冠病例逼近1.5万。
More than 1,000 new cases were recorded in a single day for five days, bringing Iran's new peak to nearly 15,000.
界面天下。
Interface world.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：MEHR“ 伊朗外长扎里夫再次敦促国际社会，不要承认和执行美国的“非法制裁”。
Source: MEHR "Iranian Foreign Minister Nawaz Zarif again urged the international community not to recognize and enforce US" illegal sanctions. "
”伊朗卫生部3月16日说，伊朗当天新增新冠肺炎确诊病例1053例，新增死亡129例。
Iran confirmed 1,053 new cases of pneumonia and 129 new deaths, the Health Ministry said Monday.
截至当地时间16日中午，伊朗累计确诊新冠肺炎病例14991例，其中4996例康复，853例死亡。
By noon local time, Iran had confirmed a total of 14,991 new cases of pneumonia, 4996 of which recovered and 853 died.
这是伊朗连续第五天单日新增病例超过1000人，单日死亡病例则继昨日后再次超过100人。
It is the fifth day in a row that Iran has had more than 1,000 new cases a day and more than 100 a day since yesterday.
当天，该国又有一官员死于新冠肺炎，是负责选举、监督、罢黜伊朗最高领袖的最高权力机构“伊朗专家会议”的一名成员。
On the same day, another official died of pneumonia in the New Crown, a member of the Iran Experts' Conference, the highest authority responsible for electing, supervising and deposed Iran's Supreme Leader.
据伊朗迈赫尔通讯社报道，卫生部发言人贾汉普尔已敦促民众尽量不要前往疫情“重灾区”，如礼萨呼罗珊省（Razavi Khorasan）首府马什哈德市等地。
Health ministry spokesman Mohammad Jahanpur has urged people not to travel to "hard-hit areas" such as Mashhad, the capital of Razavi Khorasan, Iran's Maher news agency reported.
他强调，打败病毒的唯一办法是待在家中，避免不必要的出行。
He stressed that the only way to defeat the virus was to stay at home and avoid unnecessary travel.
为应对新冠肺炎疫情的快速发展，伊朗已在本月5日启动了国家动员计划，旨在尽早发现疑似患者，缓解医院的接诊压力。
In response to the rapid development of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, Iran launched a national mobilization plan on February 5 to identify suspected patients as early as possible and ease the pressure on hospitals to accept patients.
根据该计划，30万个疫情排查小组将从疫情严重的地区开始，根据民众的个人信息进行逐一问询，疑似感染者将到医疗机构接受检测，检测结果为阳性的病例将被居家隔离，并收到药物和使用说明。
Under the plan, 300,000 outbreak detection teams will start in highly affected areas, conduct individual inquiries based on the personal information of the population, and suspected infected persons will be tested in medical institutions. Cases with positive test results will be isolated at home and will receive medication and instructions for use.
伊朗卫生部副部长阿里雷扎·雷西（Alireza Raeisi）15日说，该计划在四天内已完成了1000万人的疫情排查工作，分别在医疗中心和线上平台上排查了650万人和370万人。
Alireza Raeisi, Iran's deputy health minister, said Thursday that the program has completed 10 million people in four days, screening 6.5 million people on medical centers and 3.7 million people on online platforms.
央视新闻援引塔斯尼姆通讯社的报道称，在这1000万人中，有21万人出现头痛、发热等症状，其中3万人由于症状严重被送往医疗中心，其中1200人被转至医院，900人住院治疗。
Of the 10 million people, 210,000 had headaches, fever and other symptoms, including 30,000 who were taken to medical centres with severe symptoms, 1,200 of whom were transferred to hospitals and 900 hospitalized, the CCTV news agency quoted the news agency Tusnim as saying.
伊朗最高领袖哈梅内伊15日已敦促民众配合上述计划。
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the 15th has urged the public to cooperate with the plan.
他强调，政府及卫生部门所采取的策略，所有人都必须执行，国家动员计划有科学依据，是有效的“非常措施”，可以“化磨难为祝福，化威胁为机遇”。
He stressed that the strategy adopted by the Government and the health sector must be implemented by all, that the national mobilization plan was scientifically sound, and that it was an effective "extraordinary measure" that could "turn tribulation into blessing and threat into opportunity."
伊朗外长扎里夫当天则继续批评了美国对伊朗的“经济恐怖主义”。
Iranian Foreign Minister Nawaz Zarif that day continued to criticize the United States "economic terrorism" against Iran.
他在致各国外长的信件中表示，美国的单边制裁影响了伊朗的药物、医疗器材交易和人道主义援助，对伊朗抗击新冠肺炎疫情造成了阻碍。
In his letter to foreign ministers, he said that unilateral sanctions by the United States had affected Iranian medicines, trade in medical equipment and humanitarian assistance and had impeded Iran's fight against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
据新华社报道，扎里夫在信中写道，尽管伊朗在抗击疫情方面拥有所有所需的科学能力和卫生体系，但美国单边制裁对伊朗抗击疫情造成阻碍。
In his letter, Mr. Zarif wrote that, while Iran has all the scientific capabilities and health systems it needs to fight the epidemic, U.S. unilateral sanctions have hampered Iran's fight against the epidemic, Xinhua reported.
他敦促国际社会不要承认和执行这些非法制裁。
He urged the international community not to recognize and implement those illegal sanctions.
据报道，扎里夫的这封信当天也交给了联合国秘书长古特雷斯。
Zarif's letter was also reportedly handed over to U.N. Secretary-General Guterres on the same day.
此前一日，伊朗总统鲁哈尼已提出，美国的制裁严重阻碍了伊朗抗击新冠肺炎疫情的努力，敦促他国领导人解除对伊朗的制裁。
The announcement comes a day after Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called for U.S. sanctions to severely hamper Iran's efforts to fight the outbreak and urged other leaders to lift sanctions against Iran.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
连续五天单日新增过千，伊朗新冠病例逼近1.5万。
More than 1,000 new cases were recorded in a single day for five days, bringing Iran's new peak to nearly 15,000.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "连续五天单日新增过千，伊朗新冠病例逼近1.5万";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "伊朗外长扎里夫再次敦促国际社会，不要承认和执行美国的“非法制裁”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Iranian Foreign Minister Nawaz Zarif once again urged the international community not to recognize and enforce U.S. "illegal sanctions."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
