以口罩为诱饵花式获客、疫区延期还款难落地，用户难逃消费金融“新套路”。
With masks as bait fancy, epidemic areas delay repayment is difficult to land, users can not escape consumer finance "new routines."
苗艺伟 行家玮。
Mr. Miao is an expert.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：苗艺伟 实习记者：行家玮“ 消费金融公司在3.15期间成为金融投诉重灾区，不仅是高利贷、砍头息、恶意催收等问题屡禁不止，在此次疫情期间又形成一些新套路。
Intern reporter Miao Yimei: "Consumer financial companies became a financial complaint during 3.15 years of serious disaster areas, not only usury, beheading, malicious collection and other problems, and formed some new practices during the epidemic.
”又是一年315。
It was 315 a year.
界面新闻记者在各大消费投诉类网站发现，消费金融公司成为金融投诉重灾区，不仅是高利贷、砍头息、恶意催收等老问题屡禁不止，此次疫情期间又形成了一些新套路。
Interface reporters on major consumer complaints sites found that consumer finance companies have become a major financial complaints disaster area, not only usury, beheading, malicious collection and other old problems, and formed some new practices during the epidemic.
以口罩为诱饵“花式”获客“有一家贷款公司说我已经中签了口罩，让我去领呢！” 在疫情导致防护物资紧张的关键当口，黄昊感叹居然遇到“天上掉馅饼”的好事。
"One loan company said I had won the mask and asked me to get it!" Huang Hao lamented that he had encountered a "pie in the sky" at a time when the epidemic was causing a shortage of protective materials.
他刚刚收到的一则短信显示，自己在中原消费金融举办的公益口罩免费派发摇号活动里中签，只要注册、填写地址之后就可免运费领取到5个医用口罩。
A text message he just received showed he had signed up for a free shake-out of a public face mask at the Central Plains Consumer Finance Company and was able to get five free medical masks after registering and filling in the address.
一位新用户收到的中原消费金融营销短信不过，当他兴奋地填完各类个人信息，并在该平台注册用户之后，却被告知这一福利无法兑现。
A new user received a text message about consumer finance marketing in Zhongyuan, but was told the benefits would not materialize when he excitedly filled out all kinds of personal information and registered users on the platform.
中原消费金融第二日便在公众号上发文称，在活动上线一天半的时间里，有超过20万的用户进行了预约。
On the second day of the event, more than 200,000 users made an appointment in the course of a day and a half, Zhongyuan said in a message posted on the public website.
因口罩准备不足，严重低估需求。
Inadequate preparation of masks seriously underestimates demand.
该公司第一批仅仅能发出2万个口罩，且只能发给摇到号的4000个新客户，后续的口罩到货时间未定。
The company was able to issue only 20,000 masks in the first batch and only 4,000 new customers on board, with the time of arrival of subsequent masks uncertain.
中原消费金融发文表示“口罩准备不足”“这是在开空头支票，骗取个人资料吗？”黄昊向界面新闻记者表示，自己也分享给多位亲朋好友参与此次摇号送口罩活动。
Zhongyuan Consumer Financial Message said "insufficient preparation of masks" "This is an empty check, cheat personal data?" Huang Hao told the interface reporter that he also shared with a number of friends and relatives to participate in the campaign.
不过活动结束这两周以来，他们中没有一个人收到中原消费金融寄来的口罩。
But in the two weeks since the campaign ended, not a single one of them has received a mask from Zhongyuan Consumer Finance.
除了中原消费金融之外，平安旗下的专注于互联网医疗的平安好医生APP也因“免费送口罩”的活动而一度登上微博热搜。
In addition to Central Plains consumer finance, Ping An's safe doctor APP, which focuses on Internet medicine, was once boarded by Weibo fever because of the "free mask-giving" campaign.
值得一提的是，正是在此次疫情期间，平安好医生APP上悄然跨界上线了平安普惠、360借条、百度有钱花、小赢科技的摇钱花以及玖富借贷等借贷产品。
It is worth mentioning that it is during this epidemic, Ping An good doctor on the APP quietly cross the line safe universal, 360 debits, Baidu rich flowers, small win technology cash for rich loans and other lending products.
图3 一位微博用户@sunnymm收到平安好医生寄来的口罩而不少客户反映，平安好医生寄来的口罩也并非其原先宣称中所称的N95口罩，而是货不对板的棉纱口罩、N90口罩等，防护标准存在很大差异。
Fig. 3 A microblogger @ sunnymm receives a mask from a good doctor and many clients report that the mask is not the N95 mask he claimed to have originally claimed, but the wrong one, such as cotton mask, N90 mask, etc.
疫区延期还款难落地除了利用疫情营销获客所打的“擦边球”之外，金融信贷政策在疫情期间也面临着“落地难”的困局。
In addition to using the epidemic marketing hit by the "margin ball," the financial credit policy during the epidemic is also facing "landing difficulties."
界面新闻了解到，虽然已有多家消费金融公司制定了差异化信贷政策，对湖北及非湖北地区用户差异化豁免罚息、罚金，合理延后还款期限，但在具体执行上却仍存在缺位。
Interface news learned that although many consumer finance companies have formulated differentiated credit policies, Hubei and non-Hubei user differentiation exemption penalty interest, fine, reasonable delay in the repayment period, but there is still a lack of concrete implementation.
1月31日，人民银行等五部门联合下发《关于进一步强化金融支持防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的通知》 ，其中第十四条对贷款逾期的部分人士征信上报重新做了安排。
On January 31, the People's Bank of China and other departments jointly issued the Notice on Further Strengthening Financial Support for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Infected by the New Coronavirus.
文件要求，合理调整逾期信用记录报送，对因感染新冠肺炎住院治疗或隔离人员、疫情防控需要隔离观察人员和参加疫情防控工作人员，因疫情影响未能及时还款的，经接入机构认定，相关逾期贷款可不作逾期记录报送，已报送的予以调整。
Documents require that overdue credit records be reasonably readjusted and that those who have been hospitalized or quarantined with pneumonia, those who need to be quarantined for disease prevention and control, and those who participate in disease control and prevention and control cannot be repaid in time because of the epidemic situation, the relevant overdue loans may be submitted without overdue records.
对受疫情影响暂时失去收入来源的个人和企业，可依调整后的还款安排，报送信用记录。
Individuals and enterprises temporarily deprived of their sources of income due to the epidemic may submit credit records in accordance with the adjusted repayment arrangements.
一位持牌消费金融公司相关负责人对界面新闻表示，“一方面，虽然公司层面出台了不少对湖北疫区的政策，但也面临着严重的信息不对称，造成的用户还款意愿降低，甚至出现个别用户无故恶意逃废债的现象；另一面，在疫情严重的湖北地区，一些消费金融公司要求用户提供单位所开的工资流水证明、延迟复工通知等，部分消费金融的用户也因申请延期程序复杂、隔离期间不能出门而无法拿到相关证明享受优惠政策。
"On the one hand, although there are many policies on Hubei epidemic areas at the company level, they also face serious information asymmetries, resulting in reduced willingness to pay back their debts, and even maliciously delayed notices from individual users," a licensed consumer finance company official told Interface News.
”苏宁消费金融在疫情期间申请延期还款需要提供的材料21CN聚投诉上就显示，湖北陈先生称因为隔离和封城，无法提供苏宁金融对于疫区延期还款的证明文件，屡次协商未果后已开始计入罚息。
The 41 CN complaint, filed by Suning Consumer Finance in response to a request for deferral during the outbreak, shows that Mr. Chen in Hubei province said he was unable to provide proof of the delay in repayment from Suning Financial because of isolation and blockage.
恶意催收AB面此外，消费金融行业一直以来备受指责的“恶意催收”行为在疫情期间也并未销声匿迹。
In addition, the consumer finance industry has long been accused of "malevolent collection" has not disappeared during the epidemic.
在21CN聚投诉网站上，今年2月，多位消费金融客户展示出的通信记录显示，一天之内收到位于重庆呼叫中心连续发来“呼死你”骚扰电话。
On the CN complaint website, in February, a number of consumer-finance customers showed that they had received a series of "death-harassing" calls from the Chongqing Call Center within a day.
另外，还有投诉人展示的短信显示，因自己一位亲戚未能在马上消费金融按时还款，而自己却收到了冒充“公检法”机关的催收短信。
In addition, text messages displayed by complainants showed that one of their relatives who had failed to make timely payments on time received a text message from an agency posing as the Public Prosecution Service.
一位消费金融用户在疫情期间一天之内收到的催收电话一位聚投诉用户称马上消费金融冒充公检法发送恐吓短信而在备受指责的“恶意催收”另一面，3月12日晚间，聚投诉在其微信公众号上发布文章称，未经审核通过，聚投诉退回了3万件对捷信的投诉。
A consumer-finance user who received a one-day call during the epidemic complained that consumer finance was sending scaremongering text messages on the other side of the much-criticized 'malicious solicitation'. On the night of March 12, a complaint posted on his Twitter account said that 30,000 complaints had been returned without approval.
退回的3万多件待审核的投诉均与捷信金融收取高额利息有关，投诉人的要求大多为减免欠款、退回额外收取的费用等。
More than 30,000 complaints pending review were related to the high interest rates charged by JET, and most of the complainants' claims were for debt relief, refund of extra fees, etc.
面对3万件集体投诉，聚投诉平台称：做出大幅度后退。
In the face of 30,000 collective complaints, the platform said: make a substantial retreat.
对此，捷信消费金融回复称界面新闻记者称：“已经注意到该事件，也在关注跟进中，但暂不回应。
In response, MTS Consumer Finance replied that the interface journalist said: "The incident has been noted, and follow-up attention, but no response.
” 据记者了解，聚投诉此次退回大批投诉与职业投诉人组织老赖，通过大量投诉施压借款机构，从而实现组团赖账。
"According to the reporter, the complaint against the return of a large number of complaints and professional complainants organizations Lai, through a large number of complaints pressure lending institutions, thus achieving debt.
众安金融科技研究院的一份研究报告也指出，疫情期间，信贷行业整体信用风险短期内或将上升，借款人还款能力与还款意愿的双降，加上机构贷后管理效率的下降都将在短期内对逾期率造成一定影响，其中相较线上小额业务，线下大额业务面临的风险或将更大。
A study by the Institute of Financial Sciences and Technology also points out that overall credit risk in the credit industry may rise in the short term during the epidemic, with both the borrower's ability to repay and its willingness to repay, as well as the decline in the agency's post-credit management efficiency, which could have a greater risk of overshooting in the short term than for small businesses on the line.
第三方信贷数据机构百融云创针对疫情期间信贷行业的一份分析报告指出，相比于2019年春节同期，2020年头部持牌消费金融春节周信贷报告调用量下降10%，但却在节后呈现迅速攀升的趋势，报告指出，疫情主要冲击了线下业务，对于线上业务还有一定正刺激。
According to an analysis of the credit industry during the epidemic, credit-reporting by third-party credit-data provider Yongchuang declined by 10% in 2020 compared with the same period in 2019, but showed a rapid post-Spring Festival credit reporting trend, with reports that the epidemic hit mainly offline businesses and provided positive incentives for online businesses.
然而，对于现存超过300家的中小型网贷平台来说，春节之后的疫情影响仍在继续，2020年节后两周仅恢复到年前的70% 左右，面临着收入减少、坏账增多的严峻形势。
However, for the more than 300 existing small and medium-sized Internet lending platforms, the impact of the Spring Festival continues, with the latter two weeks of the 2020 season recovering to only about 70 per cent of what it was a year ago, facing declining revenues and mounting bad debts.
报告还特别指出，汽车金融客群受到疫情重创，由于汽车金融业务主要是线下进件，节后信贷数据调用量较去年同期下降40%，恢复速度受到严重抑制。
In particular, the report noted that the auto-finance group had been hit hard by the epidemic, with post-holiday credit data transfers down 40 per cent from the same period last year as auto finance was predominantly offline, and the pace of recovery was severely curtailed.
2月11日，一家位于深圳的车贷平台“人人聚财”发布公告称：“截至1月底，逾期情况较同期高出三四倍，严重影响公司回款。
"By the end of January, the number of overdue payments was three or four times higher than in the same period, seriously affecting the company's cash flow," said a statement issued by Shenzhen-based auto loan platform Everybody's Wealth.
”汽车金融遭遇的情况，是线下消费金融遭遇的一个典型。
What happens to car finance is a classic example of what happens to consumer finance offline.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
以口罩为诱饵花式获客、疫区延期还款难落地，用户难逃消费金融“新套路”。
With masks as bait fancy, epidemic areas delay repayment is difficult to land, users can not escape consumer finance "new routines."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "以口罩为诱饵花式获客、疫区延期还款难落地，用户难逃消费金融“新套路”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "消费金融公司在3.15期间成为金融投诉重灾区，不仅是高利贷、砍头息、恶意催收等问题屡禁不止，在此次疫情期间又形成一些新套路。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Consumer finance companies were a major financial complaint during the 3.15 years. Not only did usury, beheading, and malevolent collection continue to plague the region, but new practices have emerged during the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
