英国“群体免疫”行得通吗？。
Is Group Immunity Work in Britain?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：卫报记者:田思奇“ “新冠病毒会引起很强的群体免疫力吗？还是像流感一样，每年都会出现新的病毒株，需要重复接种疫苗？我们还有很多关于新冠病毒免疫反应的知识需要学习。
Photo: The Guardian Journalist: "Does the new canopy virus cause a lot of group immunity? Or does it have a new strain every year like the flu, requiring repeated vaccinations? We have a lot to learn about the new crown virus immune response.
””在欧洲成为新型冠状病毒疫情“震中”之时，英国政府专家提出一项流行病学中的概念——“群体免疫”。
"As Europe becomes the epicentre of the new coronavirus epidemic, UK government experts have come up with an epidemiological concept -" mass immunization. "
粗略估计显示，如果三分之二英国人感染并康复后获得免疫，那么英国人将全部安全。
Rough estimates suggest that if two-thirds of Britons are immunized against infection and recovery, the British population will be completely safe.
但从目前对新冠病毒的认知来看，事实也许不如理论中那样完美。
But current knowledge of the new crown virus suggests that it may not be as perfect as the theory suggests.
在一封公开信中，来自英国各大学的229名科学家表示，英国政府的防控措施将给国民医疗服务体系（NHS）带来额外的压力，署名人也联合批评了政府首席科学顾问帕特里克·瓦伦斯（Patrick Vallance）有关“群体免疫”的言论。
In an open letter, 229 scientists from British universities said the government's control measures would put extra pressure on the NHS, and the signatories jointly criticized Patrick Vallance, the government's chief scientific adviser, for his remarks about "mass immunization."
帕特里克在周五表示：“绝大多数人是轻症，因此要建立某种群体免疫力，这样更多的人对这种疾病免疫，我们就能减少传播。
"Most people are mild, so to build some kind of group immunity so more people are immunized against the disease, we can reduce transmission," Patrick said on Friday.
”只要6000多万英国人中的4000万人感染新冠病毒并康复后获得免疫，则英国将获得对新冠病毒的群体免疫力。
With only 40 million of the more than 60 million Britons infected and immunized against the new Crown virus, the UK will have acquired group immunity to the new crown virus.
推行这样的理念可以理解为，在把老年人和基础病患者等面对新冠的高危人群隔离保护起来后，让“年富力强者”主动或被动遭遇病毒后出现抗体，形成社会的“群体免疫”，使得高危个体周围最终都是对这种疾病有抵抗力的人。
The idea is to isolate high-risk groups, such as the elderly and those with basic illnesses, and to allow the "able-bodied" to develop antibodies following active or passive exposure to the virus, creating a "community-based immune system" that ultimately surrounds high-risk individuals who are resistant to the disease.
《卫报》称，这一术语原本描述的是大量儿童接种麻疹等疫苗后的情形，其他人感染这些疾病的机会将降低。
The Guardian said the term originally described a situation in which large numbers of children were vaccinated against measles and others would be less likely to contract them.
但“群体免疫”在对抗没有疫苗的新传染病方面还是过于新颖的概念。
But "mass immunization" is an overly novel concept in the fight against new infectious diseases without vaccines.
英国内阁“助推小组”（Nudge Unit，运用行为经济学和心理学研究成果提升政策效果的机构）心理学家大卫·哈尔彭（David Halpern）对BBC介绍说：“假设疫情像我们认为的那样传播并扩散，你会想像结茧一样形成保护罩保护那些高危群体，这样他们基本就不会感染。
David Halpern, a psychologist at the Nudge Unit, a body that uses behavioral economics and psychological research to enhance policy effectiveness, told the BBC: "Assuming that the epidemic spreads and spreads as we think, you will want to form cocoons to protect high-risk groups so that they are not infected."
当他们从茧中出来时，其余人口已经实现了群体免疫力，那就将是一个关键时刻。
When they emerge from the cocoon, the rest of the population has achieved group immunity, and that will be a critical moment.
”帕特里克和英国首席医疗顾问克里斯·惠蒂（Chris Whitty）表示，他们打算公布这一策略所基于的计算机模型。
Patrick and Chris Whitty, Britain's chief medical adviser, said they intended to publish the computer model on which the strategy was based.
不过质疑的声音随之而来。
But the voices of doubt followed.
世界卫生组织发言人玛格丽特·哈里斯（Margaret Harris）指出，外界还不清楚新冠肺炎患者康复后是否形成了免疫：“我们对这种病毒的科学了解还不够多，它在人群中存在的时间还不够长，我们还不能从免疫学的角度了解它的作用。
Margaret Harris, a spokesman for the World Health Organization, notes that it is not clear whether patients with pneumonia have been immunized since they recover: "We don't know enough about the virus, it hasn't been around long enough for people to understand its role in immunology.
”儿科医生、世界卫生组织前部门主任安东尼·科斯特洛（Anthony Costello）也表示，群体免疫可能不会持续。
Anthony Costello, a pediatrician and former director of the World Health Organization, also said mass immunization might not last.
“新冠病毒会引起很强的群体免疫力吗？还是像流感一样，每年都会出现新的病毒株，需要重复接种疫苗？我们还有很多关于新冠病毒免疫反应的知识需要学习。
"Does the new canopy virus cause strong community immunity? Or does it have a new strain every year like the flu, requiring repeated vaccinations? We have a lot to learn about the new crown virus immune response."
”即便这种模型成立，英国政府也恐难以应对病亡患者过多的代价。
Even if the model holds, the British government may find it hard to cope with the cost of too many patients.
世界经济论坛文章指出，要实现群体免疫力，至少超4700万英国人被感染。
The WEF article points out that at least 47 million Britons are infected to achieve group immunity.
如果按照目前估计的新冠肺炎病死率2.3%，重症率19%计算，英国在形成群体免疫之前会出现100多万人死亡，800多万名重症患者。
If the current estimated death rate for pneumonia is 2.3 per cent and the severity rate 19 per cent, there will be more than 1 million deaths and more than 8 million severe cases in the United Kingdom before the formation of mass immunization.
但英国卫生和社会保障部发言人表示，帕特里克的言论被误解了。
But a spokesman for the Department of Health and Social Security said Patrick had been misunderstood.
群体免疫不是政府策略的一部分，而是传染病带来的自然结果。
Group immunization is not part of the government's strategy, but is a natural consequence of the epidemic.
“我们的目标是拯救生命，保护最脆弱的人，并减轻我们国民医疗服务体系的压力。
"Our goal is to save lives, protect the most vulnerable and relieve the strain on our National Health Service.
”英国整体疫情防控与其他欧洲国家形成鲜明对比，尚未在全国范围内宣布取消大型活动和停课。
The overall UK epidemic stands in stark contrast to other European countries, with no nationwide announcement of the cancellation of major activities or the suspension of classes.
相对来说，在意大利封锁全国之后，法国也在本周末关闭所有非必要的公共场所，西班牙将开启15天全国封锁，还有多个欧洲国家关闭边境，拒绝外国游客进入。
France, too, closed all non-essential public places by the end of the week following Italy's national blockade, Spain will open a 15-day national blockade, and many European countries have closed their borders to foreign tourists.
3月14日当天，英国又出现10名新冠肺炎确诊患者死亡，总死亡人数翻倍至21人，累计确诊1140人。
A further 10 cases of pneumonia were confirmed in the UK on March 14, doubling the total number of deaths to 21, with a cumulative total of 1,140 confirmed cases.
该国和爱尔兰刚刚被美国加入实施旅行禁令的国家名单中。
That country and Ireland have just been added to the list of States implementing the travel ban by the United States.
在公开信中，来自多学科背景的专家认为，更强有力的“社会疏离（social distancing）”措施可以显著减缓英国疾病的增长速度，并将挽救“数千人的生命”。
In the open letter, experts from a multidisciplinary background argued that stronger "social alienation" would significantly slow the rate of disease growth in the United Kingdom and save "thousands of lives."
而在另一封致政府的信中，200多名行为科学家质疑政府的如下观点——过早启动更严厉的措施将导致人们在疫情最严重的时候不坚持采用这些措施。
In another letter to the government, more than 200 behavioral scientists questioned the government's view that starting tougher measures prematurely would prevent people from insisting on them at the height of the epidemic.
信中写道：“我们不相信外界对‘行为疲劳’已有足够的了解，也不认为这些见解在多大程度上适用于当前的特殊情况。
"We do not believe that there is sufficient knowledge of 'behavioural fatigue' and do not believe that these insights are appropriate to the particular circumstances of the present day," it wrote.
”科学家们认为，“更激进的行动改变”可能会带来“更好的”效果，“中国和韩国的经验足以鼓舞人心，表明至少应该尝试这种可能性。
Scientists believe that "more radical action changes" could have "better" effects, and that "the experience of China and South Korea is encouraging enough to suggest that at least this possibility should be explored."
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
英国“群体免疫”行得通吗？。
Is Group Immunity Work in Britain?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "英国“群体免疫”行得通吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Did Britain's "group immunization" work?;
var msg_desc = "“新冠病毒会引起很强的群体免疫力吗？还是像流感一样，每年都会出现新的病毒株，需要重复接种疫苗？我们还有很多关于新冠病毒免疫反应的知识需要学习。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Or does the new strain appear every year, like the flu, requiring repeated vaccinations?
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
