全球邮轮业大范围停航。
The global cruise industry is largely closed.
郑萃颖。
Zheng Guangying.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
Photo by Casey Horner on Unsplash记者:郑萃颖“ 上周五全球范围多家国际邮轮公司宣布在北美或全球停运，这是现代邮轮旅游行业近60年以来的首次。
(Photo by Casey Horner on Unsplash) Journalist: Last Friday, for the first time in nearly 60 years, several international cruise companies announced that they were shutting down operations in North America or around the world.
”3月13日，欧洲最大邮轮公司意大利歌诗达邮轮宣布，将在4月3日前暂全球范围所有航线的运营。
On March 13, the Italian cruise ship Cesta announced it would temporarily operate all routes around the world by April 3.
除此之外，世界几大邮轮公司，包括歌诗达的母公司嘉年华集团，皇家加勒比邮轮公司，诺唯真邮轮公司和的地中海邮轮，纷纷于上周五宣布，由于新冠病毒的爆发，他们暂停了在全球或部分地区的运营。
In addition, some of the world's biggest cruise companies, including Goethea's parent company Carnival, Royal Caribbean Cruises Inc., Novoreal Cruises Inc. and Mediterranean Cruises, announced on Friday that they had suspended operations around the world or parts of the world because of the outbreak of the new Crown virus.
邮轮公司在中国市场的邮轮业务于1月下旬已经暂停。
Cruise operations in the Chinese market were suspended in late January.
如今新冠肺炎病毒的疫情已经在中国之外的全球多个国家蔓延。
Now the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia virus has spread to many countries around the world outside China.
国际邮轮协会（CLIA）3月13日在官网发布公告称，随着公共卫生官员和美国政府继续应对COVID-19疫情，国际邮轮协会将在未来30天自愿暂停运营以美国为停靠港的邮轮。
As public health officials and the U.S. government continue to respond to the COVID-19 epidemic, the International Cruise Association will suspend operations of cruise ships calling at the United States voluntarily for the next 30 days, the International Cruise Association said in a statement on its website.
该项临时暂停运营的决定从2020年3月14日美国东部时间上午12:00生效。
The temporary suspension will take effect from 12: 00 a.m. EST on March 14, 2020.
各家暂停运营的时间长短不一。
The suspension periods vary from one house to another.
有些是全球范围的航线暂停，有的则是区域性停运。
Some are suspended on a global basis, others on a regional basis.
据《华盛顿邮报》，嘉年华邮轮表示，将暂停从本周六至4月9日离开北美的所有航次。
According to The Washington Post, Carnival said it would suspend all flights from Saturday to April 9 to North America.
原定于4月14日启程的所有荷美邮轮航线都已暂停，大多数已经驶出的邮轮将按原计划结束行程，其中2班提早结束了行程。
All cruise lines scheduled to depart on April 14 have been suspended and most of those that have already left will end as planned, with two of them ending early.
地中海邮轮将停止从美国出发的新航程至4月底，并停止新冠病毒高风险地区的业务，包括地中海、海湾地区和亚洲。
Mediterranean cruise ships will cease their new voyage from the United States until the end of April and will cease operations in high-risk areas of the new crown virus, including the Mediterranean, the Gulf region and Asia.
地中海邮轮在南美洲区域将继续运营，而南非地区的航次运营将在当前航线结束后中止。
Mediterranean cruise ships will continue to operate in the South American region, while those in South Africa will be suspended after the end of the current route.
皇家加勒比邮轮公司最初暂停了离开美国的邮轮航线，周六则表示，将暂停运营的范围扩大到全球航线。
Royal Caribbean Cruises, which initially suspended its flights out of the US, on Saturday said it would extend the suspension to global routes.
作为全球第二大邮轮运营商，皇家加勒加勒比旗下邮轮品牌包括皇家加勒比国际游轮，精致邮轮，精钻邮轮（Azamara Club Cruises）和银海邮轮（Silversea Cruises）。
As the world's second-largest cruise operator, Royal Galle's Caribbean cruise line includes the Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, exquisite cruise liners, Azamara Club Cruises and Silversea Cruises.
该公司预计4月11日始恢复航行。
The company expects to resume sailing on April 11.
诺唯真邮轮则暂停从上周五开始至4月11日之间的所有航次，包括旗下三个品牌的所有28艘船。
Novoreal suspended all flights between Friday and April 11, including all 28 vessels under its three brands.
拥有四艘船的迪士尼邮轮将从周六开始暂停所有未出发航次，直到本月底。
The Disney Cruise, with four ships, will suspend all non-departures from Saturday until the end of the month.
维京邮轮上周三表示，其在全球范围内运营近80艘河船和远洋邮轮，将暂停所有登船计划，直到4月30日。
Viking said on Wednesday it was operating nearly 80 river and ocean liners around the world and would suspend all boarding plans until April 30.
此前，由于新冠病毒感染了至少两艘公主邮轮上的乘客和船员，邮轮这一出行方式由于乘客聚集，空间封闭等原因，被认为具有较高的疫情传播风险。
Cruise is believed to be at high risk of spreading the disease as passengers congregate and the space is closed, as the new Crown virus infects passengers and crew on at least two Princess Cruises.
已经出现确诊病例的邮轮包括在日本停泊的“钻石公主”号，约有700人确诊，随后载有超过3500人的“至尊公主”号首批进行新冠病毒检测的46人有21人确诊。
Cruises with confirmed cases include the Princess Diamond, which docked in Japan and was confirmed by about 700 people, followed by the Duchess of Japan, which carried more than 3,500 people. The first 46 people tested for the virus were 21.
上周四，公主邮轮公司宣布将自愿取消其在世界范围内18艘船的航程，直至5月10日。
On Thursday, Princess Cruise announced it would voluntarily cancel its 18 ships worldwide until May 10.
一份声明中说，这家公司每天搭载的邮轮乘客量达5万名。
The company carries 50,000 passengers a day, a statement said.
“上周五全球范围多家国际邮轮公司宣布在北美或全球停运，这是现代邮轮旅游行业近60年以来的首次，”上海工程技术大学旅游管理专业教授叶欣梁告诉界面新闻。
"For the first time in nearly 60 years, a number of international cruise companies announced last Friday that they were shutting down in North America or the world," Ye Xinliang, a professor of tourism management at Shanghai University of Engineering and Technology, told Interface News.
他分析说，全球三大邮轮公司市值蒸发超过3000亿人民币，一些邮轮公司的股票市值已经跌破资产总值，部分邮轮公司为了应对难关已经减薪。
He said the market value of the world's three major cruise companies had evaporated by more than Rmb300bn, that the market value of some cruise companies had fallen below asset value and that some had already cut wages in response to the difficulties.
同时势必影响到国际邮轮建造企业和设备供应企业，此外旅行社也遭到沉重打击，在美国约有2万余家代理邮轮业务的旅行社，也暂时性的步入寒冬期。
It will also affect international cruise construction companies and equipment suppliers, as well as travel agencies, which have about 20,000 cruise agents operating in the United States and are temporarily entering the winter months.
据报道，嘉年华公司的股票在周四收盘时较年初下跌了70％。
Carnival shares reportedly closed Thursday down 70% from the start of the year.
皇家加勒比和诺唯真邮轮分别下跌了77％和83％。
The Royal Caribbean and Noviemi Cruises lost 77 per cent and 83 per cent, respectively.
2月中旬星洲网报道，云顶邮轮集团为应付新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情冲击，将调低高层薪资，最高降幅达50%。
In mid-February, Xingzhou reported that, in response to the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, the Yunding Cruise Group will lower top-level salaries by up to 50%.
“这是大家无法预料到的情况，”国际邮轮协会总裁兼首席执行官Kelly Craighead在官网声明中表示。
"It was unexpected," Kelly Craighead, president and chief executive of the International Cruise Association, said in an official website statement.
“在美国疾病控制与预防中心的指导下，邮轮行业在保护公共健康方面已经履行责任50多年……这是一个极具挑战性的时期，但我们希望暂停运营的决定将使我们能够专注于未来，以及行业尽快恢复正常。
"The cruise industry has been fulfilling its responsibility to protect public health for more than 50 years under the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention... This is a very challenging period, but we hope that the decision to suspend operations will allow us to focus on the future and get the industry back on track as soon as possible."
”“邮轮行业始终把人放在第一位”国际邮轮协会全球主席Adam Goldstein称，“在这段时间里，我们将继续与美国疾控中心和其他机构合作，为在适当的时候恢复航行做准备。
"The cruise industry has always put people first," said Adam Goldstein, global head of the International Cruise Association. "In the meantime, we will continue to work with the CDC and other agencies to prepare for a return to navigation in due course.
我们知道旅游业是美国的巨大经济引擎，当我们的船只再次起航时，邮轮行业将为推动经济复苏做出重要贡献。
We know that tourism is a huge economic engine for the United States, and when our ships sail again, the cruise industry will make an important contribution to the economic recovery.
”据国际邮轮协会统计，邮轮业为美国提供了超过42万个工作岗位，每年对美国的经济贡献近530亿美元，同时邮轮业也为旅行社，航空公司，酒店以及遍布美国的广泛行业提供供应链上的支持。
Cruise provides more than 420,000 jobs to the United States, contributes nearly $53 billion a year to its economy and provides supply-chain support to travel agencies, airlines, hotels and industries across the country, according to the International Cruise Association.
由于航程取消，各家邮轮公司也给出了相应的乘客赔偿政策。
Due to the cancellation of the voyage, each cruise company has also given the corresponding passenger compensation policy.
诺唯真邮轮表示，取消航行的乘客可以选择全额退款，或者相当于支付金额125%的邮轮代金券，可用于2022年12月31日之前的任何未来航行。
Novoreal said the canceled passengers could opt for a full refund, or the equivalent of paying 125% of the cruise coupon, which could be used for any future voyage until December 31, 2022.
世邦邮轮也提出了相同的赔偿政策，不过代金券的使用截止日期是在2021年12月31日之前。
A similar compensation policy has been proposed by World Cruises, although the voucher will be used until 31 December 2021.
荷兰美国航空表示，原计划于本周末出发的三艘游轮的乘客将获得100％的退款以及100％等额代金券。
Dutch American says passengers from the three cruise ships scheduled to depart by the end of the week will receive 100 percent refunds and 100 percent coupons.
对于此后取消航线的邮轮乘客，公司将联系他们沟通退款事宜。
For subsequent cancellations, the company will contact them to contact them for a refund.
据界面新闻了解，在中国市场，维京邮轮于3月初宣布，若疫情得以顺利控制，将于7月开启2020年针对中国市场的航季，所有预订了今年3月至6月航次的旅客将享有疫情期间的特殊退改方案，船票可免费改签并获赠额外代金券，或者选择全额退款。
According to Interface News, Viking announced in early March that if the outbreak is successfully controlled, it will start the 2020 season for the Chinese market in July. All passengers booked from March to June this year will enjoy a special exit program during the epidemic period.
此外据行业媒体Skift报道，英国和美国都已建议70多岁及有健康状况的人避免乘船游览。
In addition, both the UK and the US have advised people in their 70s and in good health to avoid sailing, according to industry media Skift.
3月13日，新加坡将立即停止所有邮轮的港口停靠，并禁止近期有意大利，法国，西班牙和德国旅游史的游客入境和过境。
On March 13, Singapore will immediately stop all cruise port calls and bar recent tourist arrivals and transit from Italy, France, Spain and Germany.
加拿大将在7月前禁止载客超过500人的船舶停靠。
Canada will ban ships carrying more than 500 passengers by July.
上海工程技术大学旅游管理专业教授叶欣梁认为，在疫情防控期间，邮轮公司需要加强完善公共卫生防控体系，加强邮轮销售培训，强化与游客的沟通，做好邮轮产品规划设计，在恢复运营之后，尽快消除游客对疫情的担忧，提升市场信心。
Professor Ye Xinliang, a professor of tourism management at Shanghai University of Engineering and Technology, said cruise companies needed to improve the public health prevention and control system, strengthen training in cruise sales, strengthen communication with tourists, plan and design cruise products, and eliminate tourists' concerns and boost market confidence as soon as they resume operations.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
全球邮轮业大范围停航。
The global cruise industry is largely closed.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "全球邮轮业大范围停航";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "上周五全球范围多家国际邮轮公司宣布在北美或全球停运，这是现代邮轮旅游行业近60年以来的首次。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; last Friday, for the first time in nearly 60 years, a number of international cruise companies announced a global shutdown in North America or globally.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
