海外最早确诊新冠的泰国一向平稳，可今天却创下新增最高纪录。
Thailand, which first confirmed the crown overseas, has been stable, but today it has set a new record.
界面天下。
Interface world.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
泰国曼谷 图片来源：视觉中国“ 新增32人中，有5人为输入性病例，3人是在曼谷国际机场与游客密切接触过的出入境官员，2人是在泰国的游客。
Bangkok, Thailand (Reuters) - Of the 32 new people, five are imported cases, three are immigration officials who have been in close contact with tourists at Bangkok's international airport and two are tourists in Thailand.
此外多为集群感染。
In addition, most infections are clustered.
”1月13日，泰国公共卫生部向世界卫生组织（WHO）通报了一例新冠肺炎确诊病例，那是中国之外第一例确诊病例。
On January 13, Thailand's Ministry of Public Health notified the World Health Organization of a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia, the first confirmed case outside China.
在那之后的两个月，泰国疫情一直趋于平稳。
In the two months since then, the epidemic has levelled off in Thailand.
然而最近三天，泰国确诊病例从59例翻番，激增至114例，新增者大都为输入性病例和集群感染。
However, in the past three days, the number of confirmed cases in Thailand has doubled from 59 to 114, with the majority of the new cases being imported and cluster infections.
泰国卫生部3月15日（周日）通报新增32例新冠病毒感染者，是泰国病例单日增幅最大的一次，累计确诊114人，其中37人出院，1人死亡。
Thailand's Health Ministry on Sunday announced 32 new cases of the virus, the biggest one-day increase in the number of cases in Thailand, with a cumulative total of 114 cases diagnosed, 37 of whom were discharged and one died.
当日新增患者中，9人于3月6日在曼谷Lumpinee拳击馆感染，当晚拳击比赛的主持人，41岁的泰国演员马修·迪安（Matthew Deane）3月13日已在社交媒体宣布自己确诊。
Nine of the new patients were infected at Bangkok's Lumpinee boxing complex on March 6, and Matthew Deane, a 41-year-old Thai actor and host of the boxing match, announced his diagnosis in social media on March 13.
马修·迪安另有8人在酒吧等其他娱乐场所感染。
Matthew Dean has eight other people infected at bars and other entertainment venues.
《海峡时报》称，这其中有3人曾在夜店与出现症状的中国香港游客开派对，这名香港人已经于3月初离开泰国。
The Straits Times said three of the men had partying at a nightclub with symptomatic visitors from Hong Kong, China, who left Thailand in early March.
此外还有5人为输入性病例，3人为在曼谷国际机场与游客密切接触过的出入境官员；2人为在泰国的游客；2人是曼谷一餐厅员工，该餐厅老板是冠状病毒检测呈阳性的新加坡人。
In addition, there were five imported cases, three of whom were immigration officials who had been in close contact with tourists at Bangkok International Airport; two were tourists in Thailand; and two were employees of a Bangkok restaurant owned by a Singaporean who tested positive for the coronavirus.
泰国卫生部常务秘书Sukhum Kanchanapimai表示，周日新增患者中还有3人的感染源正在调查中，另有51例等待确认检测结果。
Sukhum Kanchanapimai, Thailand's permanent secretary of health, said the source of the three new cases was under investigation Sunday, while 51 others were awaiting confirmation of tests.
周日当天上午，83名泰国人从欧洲疫情最严重的意大利返回祖国，其中6人出现新冠相关症状，被送到医院继续检查。
On Sunday morning, 83 Thais returned home from Italy, the worst affected country in Europe. Six of them developed symptoms related to the new crown and were taken to hospital for further tests.
其余77人将在海军基地接受14天隔离。
The remaining 77 will be quarantined at naval bases for 14 days.
3月13日，泰国通报的7名新增病例中包括主持人马修、从日本返回的20岁学生、另一名从日本返回的50多岁女性以及她的3名家人、还有一名63岁女性，为此前确诊患者亲属。
On 13 March, seven new cases reported by Thailand included Matthew, a 20-year-old student returning from Japan, another woman in her fifties returning from Japan and three of her family members, as well as a 63-year-old woman, who were relatives of patients previously identified.
值得一提的是，上述63岁女性是近日一场集体感染中确诊患者的母亲。
It is worth mentioning that the 63-year-old woman is the mother of a recently diagnosed case of a mass infection.
泰国于3月12日通报称，15名曾“一起喝酒抽烟”的人士中发现11人确诊感染新冠病毒，其余4人病毒检测阴性。
Thailand reported on March 12 that 11 of the 15 people who had been drinking and smoking together had been diagnosed with the new crown virus and the remaining four tested negative.
泰国内政部长阿努蓬此前表示取消中国在内的18个国家和地区落地签政策，并在3月13日开始实施，实施期限为3月13日至9月30日。
Interior Minister Viktor Anupont earlier said the 18 countries and regions, including China, will be canceled, and implementation began on March 13, the implementation period is from March 13 to September 30.
泰国卫生部将于周一（3月16日）向泰国总理巴育主持的病毒中心继续建议减少进入泰国的人数，关闭高风险的娱乐场所，并取消人群聚集活动。
Thailand's Ministry of Health will continue to recommend reducing the number of people entering Thailand, closing high-risk entertainment venues and cancelling mass gatherings at the Virus Centre, which Thailand's prime minister will host on Monday (March 16).
长按识别二维码获取更多文章。
Press identify two-dimensional code to get more articles.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
海外最早确诊新冠的泰国一向平稳，可今天却创下新增最高纪录。
Thailand, which first confirmed the crown overseas, has been stable, but today it has set a new record.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "海外最早确诊新冠的泰国一向平稳，可今天却创下新增最高纪录";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Thailand, which was the first country to record a new crown overseas, has set a new record and record today.
var msg_desc = "新增32人中，有5人为输入性病例，3人是在曼谷国际机场与游客密切接触过的出入境官员，2人是在泰国的游客。
var msg _ desc = & quot; of the 32 new persons, 5 were imported cases, 3 were immigration officers who had been in close contact with tourists at Bangkok International Airport, and 2 were tourists in Thailand.
此外多为集群感染。
In addition, most infections are clustered.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
