新冠如何在一周之内“闪袭”西班牙。
How the new crown "flashed" into Spain within a week.
王磬 潘金花。
Jade Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
2020年3月7日，西班牙巴塞罗那，19/20西甲联赛第27轮中，巴塞罗那凭借梅西的点球1比0击败皇家社会。
Barcelona, Spain, 7 March 2020, 19 / 20 La Liga round 27, Barcelona with Messi's penalty 1-0 defeat of the Royal Society.
图为他身后看台上的球迷。
The picture shows the fans in the stands behind him.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：王磬 潘金花“ 从500例到5000例，韩国花了11天，意大利10天，而西班牙只用了7天。
Photo source: Visionary Chinese journalist Wang Ji Pan "From 500 to 5,000 cases, it took 11 days in South Korea, 10 days in Italy and only seven days in Spain
“我们现在仍以某种程度的自满来应对这场危机，而且显然不够给力。
"We are still responding to this crisis with a degree of complacency, and it is clearly not enough.
””继意大利之后，西班牙也要面临“锁国”了。
After Italy, Spain faces a "lock."
这一切似乎来得太快。
It all seems to have come too soon.
直到上周末，西班牙都还是跟往日一般歌舞升平。
Until last weekend, Spain continued to sing and dance as usual.
12万人在马德里市中心游行庆祝国际妇女节，8万球迷观看了国家德比足球赛，9000名政党的支持者在一处斗牛场内集会。
More than 120,000 people marched in the heart of Madrid to celebrate International Women's Day, 80,000 fans watched the national derby football match and 9,000 party supporters gathered in a bullring.
但在刚过去的这周里，疫情急转直下。
But in the past week, the epidemic has fallen sharply.
3月14日，首相桑切斯宣布在西班牙全国实施“封城”措施，将于3月16日上午8点开始执行。
Prime Minister Nicholas Sanchez announced on March 14 that he would impose a nationwide ban on Spanish cities, which would begin at 8 a.m. on March 16.
法令要求，除了购买食物、医疗用品，去医院、工作或处理其他紧急情况之外，民众应避免外出。
The decree requires people to avoid going out, in addition to food, medical supplies, hospitals, jobs or other emergencies.
这是对此前封城措施的进一步升级，意味着4700万西班牙人将不得不待在家中。
This is a further escalation of previous closures, which mean that 47 million Spaniards will have to stay at home.
来自瓦伦西亚、巴斯克、马德里的多位华人向界面新闻表示，目前在西班牙的基本生活尚未受到影响。
Many Chinese from Valencia, Basque and Madrid told the Interface News that basic life in Spain had not yet been affected.
在政府3月13日宣布紧急状态之后，超市里偶有生活物资断货现象，街上的行人比往常少了许多，但仍然很少有路人戴口罩。
Following the declaration of a state of emergency by the Government on 13 March, there were occasional cuts in supplies in supermarkets and there were far fewer pedestrians than usual, but few passers-by wore masks.
一周暴涨十倍截至当地时间3月14日晚，西班牙累计新冠肺炎确诊病例6393例，报告死亡病例195例。
Ten times as many as a week By the evening of March 14, Spain had 6,393 new cases of pneumonia and 195 reported deaths.
首相办公室也宣布，首相桑切斯的妻子贝戈尼娅确诊感染新冠病毒。
The prime minister's office also announced that Prime Minister Sanchez's wife, Begonia, had been diagnosed with the new crown virus.
西班牙已成为意大利之外欧洲疫情最严重的国家，病例增长速度居各国之首。
Spain has become the most affected country outside Italy in Europe, with the highest case growth rate.
从500例涨到5000例，韩国花了11天，意大利花了10天，而西班牙只花了7天。
From 500 to 5,000, it took South Korea 11 days, Italy 10 days, and Spain only 7 days.
过去一周的暴涨也让西班牙的疫情超过了人口更多的德国和法国，跃居欧洲第二。
The surge over the past week has also pushed Spain ahead of more populous Germany and France and into second place in Europe.
西班牙疫情走势。
Spain epidemic trend.
来源：worldometers疫情最严重的是首都马德里，占据了全部确诊数量的一半和几乎三分之二的死亡病例。
Source: The world worst affected is the capital, Madrid, which accounts for half of all confirmed cases and almost two thirds of all deaths.
几家养老院发生了集聚性感染。
Aggregate infections occurred in several homes for the elderly.
马德里大区政府紧急评估了养老院的健康风险，并于3月8日关闭了其中的两家私人养老院。
The Regional Government of Madrid conducted an emergency assessment of the health risks in the nursing home and closed two of the private homes on 8 March.
3月11日起，马德里、巴斯克、拉里奥哈三个大区关闭了所有的学校、托儿所和老年人日托中心。
Since 11 March, all schools, nurseries and day-care centres for the elderly have been closed in the Madrid, Basque and La Rioja regions.
3月12日，加泰罗尼亚地区封锁了多个小镇；3月13日，首相桑切斯宣布国家进入紧急状态。
On 12 March, several towns were closed in the Catalonia region; on 13 March, Prime Minister Sánchez declared a state of emergency.
西班牙最早的新冠病例确诊于1月底，是来自德国的输入性病例。
The earliest confirmed new crown case in Spain was imported from Germany at the end of January.
但两人均很快隔离并治愈出院。
Both were quickly quarantined and discharged.
2月13日，西班牙出现首例新冠肺炎病人死亡，但此人当时并未被确诊。
The first case of death from pneumonia was reported in Spain on February 13, but the person was not diagnosed.
西班牙的前4例患新冠肺炎死者在生前都没有被确诊。
None of the first four deaths in Spain from pneumonia had been diagnosed before death.
这显示专家们对于病毒到达西班牙的时间有错误的评估。
This suggests that experts misjudged the timing of the virus's arrival in Spain.
政府饱受批评西班牙政府由于防疫不力遭到了多方批评。
The government has been criticized by many for its lack of immunization.
“是政客而不是专业人士来防疫。
"It is politicians, not professionals, who are vaccinating.
”马德里卫生部门工会副秘书长普恩特（Ángela Hernández Puente）对媒体表示，西班牙到现在仍然以某种程度的自满来应对这场危机，而且“显然不够给力”。
Ángela Hernández Puente, Madrid's deputy secretary-general for health, told the press that Spain was still responding to the crisis with a degree of complacency and was "clearly inadequate."
批评者称，政府没能更早地采取措施、限制大规模集会。
Critics say the government failed to take early steps to restrict mass rallies.
据西班牙《世界报》（El Mundo）报道，马德里大区政府共计批准了3月7日和8日的77次游行活动，其中55场游行发生在3月8日。
According to the Spanish newspaper El Mundo, the Madrid regional government approved a total of 77 marches on March 7 and 8, 55 of which took place on March 8.
欧洲疾控中心（ECDC）3月2日就向有疫情爆发风险的成员国发出警告，避免非必须要的大规模集会。
The European Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC) on March 2 warned member states at risk of outbreaks to avoid unnecessary mass gatherings.
ECDC建议中有明确要求，作为“预防措施”，疫情期间“不应该举行超过千人参与的活动”。
The ECDC proposal explicitly states that, as a "precautionary measure," "no more than a thousand people should be involved" during the outbreak.
但是西班牙政府并没有接受这个建议，甚至以“追求平等”的名号鼓励民众走上街头。
But the Spanish government did not accept the proposal, even calling it a "quest for equality" to encourage people to take to the streets.
极右翼政党Vox在上周末举行了9000人的集会。
The far-right party Vox held a rally of 9,000 people over the weekend.
但后来三位参与了该集会的党内高层人士——包括党魁和党务秘书长——都确诊了新冠。
But then three of the party's top figures - including the party leader and the party secretary-general - who participated in the rally were confirmed.
此外，桑切斯政府中还有两名部长确诊。
In addition, two ministers were confirmed in the Government of Sánchez.
这让人们担忧：决策者们到底知不知道该如何应对病毒？《纽约时报》指出，尽管西班牙是欧盟里医疗条件最好的国家之一，它仍面临着防疫挑战：医疗保健主要掌握在大区政府而非中央政府手中。
The New York Times notes that, while Spain has one of the best health conditions in the European Union, it still faces the challenge of immunization: health care is largely in the hands of regional governments, not the central government.
首相桑切斯目前领导着一个左翼的少数政府，今年早些时候通过一场不令人满意的选举上台。
Prime Minister Sánchez, who now heads a small left-wing government, came to power in an unsatisfactory election earlier this year.
卫生工会官员普恩特（Hernández Puente）说：“我们拥有非常好的西班牙卫生系统，但问题是该系统分散在17个大区之间，并经常受到政客的控制，而这些政客通常并非身穿同一种颜色的党服。
Hernández Puente, a health union official, said: "We have a very good Spanish health system, but the problem is that the system is spread among 17 regions and is often controlled by politicians, who do not usually wear the same colour of party clothes.
”疫情下的华人来自瓦伦西亚大区的华人学生林威对界面新闻表示，从体制上看，西班牙有17个大区（区-省-市，三级），不同的决策需要不同的的政府作出。
Linwei, a Chinese student from Valencia, told Interface News that institutionally, Spain has 17 regions (regional-provincial-municipal, tertiary) and that different decisions need to be made by different governments.
比如停课的决定需要由大区来做出，市里或学校都没有权力。
The decision to suspend classes, for example, needs to be made by the Regions, neither the municipality nor the school.
林威还告诉界面新闻，西班牙人和意大利人一样生性乐观，对自己的医疗系统很自信，这两个国家都有很高的人均预期寿命。
Linway also told Interface News that Spaniards, like Italians, are optimistic and confident about their healthcare systems, and both have high life expectancy.
大街上仍然很少有人戴口罩。
Masks are still rarely worn on the streets.
“在宣布了紧急状态之后，我的朋友们第一个想到的事情是赶紧趁着餐厅酒吧关门，最后喝一杯。
"After the state of emergency was declared, my friends' first thought was to quickly close the restaurant and have a drink.
”林威说。
'he said.
巴斯克大区是受本次疫情影响最严重的大区。
The Basque Country is the region most affected by the epidemic.
住在巴斯克大区圣塞巴斯蒂安的华人谢春晖对界面新闻表示，民众的基本生活还不太受影响。
Xie Chunhui, a Chinese living in San Sebastian, Basque Country, told the Interface News that people's basic livelihood was not affected.
她告诉界面新闻，巴斯克政府是3月12日下午1点宣布停课的，当天就有挺多人去超市买奶粉、洗洁精等等，但没有缺货。
She told the Interface News that the Basque government had suspended classes at 1 p.m. on March 12, when many people went to the supermarket to buy milk powder, detergent and so on, but there was no shortage.
第一次看到超市缺货是13日下午，缺厕纸、抽纸、厨房用纸、新鲜水果蔬菜、肉类、面包、鸡蛋、洗手液、沐浴露。
The first time I saw a supermarket shortage is 13 afternoon, lack of toilet paper, paper, kitchen paper, fresh fruits and vegetables, meat, bread, eggs, hand sanitizer, body lotion.
周六（14日）早上再去看已经基本补上货了。
Saturday (14th) morning to see that the basic replenishment has been.
巴斯克大区的超市里，卫生用品被抢购一空。
In the Basque Country supermarkets, hygiene items were snapped up.
来源：受访者供图“封锁禁令会在周一生效。
Source: Respondent's response: "Ban on blockade will take effect on Monday.
今天还是有人在街上溜达，但明显比平时冷清。
People still stroll the streets today, but they are noticeably colder than usual.
”谢春晖说。
"said Xie Chunhui.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠如何在一周之内“闪袭”西班牙。
How the new crown "flashed" into Spain within a week.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠如何在一周之内“闪袭”西班牙";。
var msg _ title = & quot; How the new crown "flashed" at S & quot; within a week.
var msg_desc = "从500例到5000例，韩国花了11天，意大利10天，而西班牙只用了7天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; from 500 to 5,000, it took 11 days in South Korea, 10 days in Italy, and only 7 days in Spain.
“我们现在仍以某种程度的自满来应对这场危机，而且显然不够给力。
"We are still responding to this crisis with a degree of complacency, and it is clearly not enough.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
