和病毒一起旅行：我在钻石公主号上的28天。
Traveling with the Virus: 28 days on the Princess Diamond.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
3月1日，船长格纳罗·阿尔马成为最后一个走下钻石公主号的人。
On 1 March, Captain Gnaro Alma became the last person to step off the Princess Diamond.
受访者供图摘要：豪华邮轮“钻石公主号”犹如一座海上的五星级酒店。
"The Princess of Diamonds" is a five-star hotel on the sea.
2月1日，随着一名香港乘客被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎，相继又有多人被确诊。
On February 1, a Hong Kong passenger was diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia and a number of people were diagnosed.
这艘载有3711名船员和乘客的邮轮，其确诊人数一度成为全球第二，超过中国以外的任何一个国家，被媒体称为“海上监狱”。
The cruise ship, carrying 3,711 crew members and passengers, once ranked second in the world, ahead of any other country outside China, and was dubbed a "maritime prison" by the media.
在没有任何心理准备的情况下，船长带领乘客开始了一场措手不及的隔离。
Unprepared for anything, the captain led the passengers into an unprepared isolation.
截至3月15日，最后下船的145人结束健康观察，病毒检测均呈阴性，16日起可依次回家，邮轮上共计712人确认感染新冠肺炎。
As at 15 March, 145 people who had finally disembarked had returned home after negative testing. A total of 712 people were confirmed to have contracted pneumonia.
美国乘客萨拉·阿拉纳(Sarah Arana)为我们讲述了她在“钻石公主号”上以及回到美国空军基地隔离的全过程。
Sarah Arana, an American passenger, recounted how she had been quarantined aboard the Princess Diamond and back to the US Air Force base.
Play点击查看船长格纳罗·阿尔马的告别视频 视频来源：Princess Cruises Youtube频道文｜陈腾编辑｜林鹏3月6日，在加利福尼亚一片无人的阳光沙滩上，萨拉看着从小和自己相熟的大海涌来、退去，她一呼、一吸。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
想到在不远处的茫茫海面上，正流浪着一艘感染了新冠病毒、前途未卜的至尊公主号邮轮，她深吸了一口气。
She drew a deep breath as she thought of the uncertain future of the new Crown Virus, the Noble Princess, not far off on the sea.
萨拉刚从它的“姊妹”邮轮、属于同一品牌的钻石公主号归来，就是那艘满载3711个生命，有712个新冠肺炎确诊病例， 7例死亡，弥漫着病毒和恐怖幻想，差点就去地狱里溜了一趟的豪华邮轮。
Sarah had just returned from her sister cruise, the Diamond Princess of the same brand, the luxury liner that nearly made it to Hell with 3,711 lives, 712 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia and 7 deaths, filled with viruses and horrors.
对别人来说，钻石公主号是一艘冰冷美丽的船，生了病上不了岸。
To others, the Princess of Diamonds was a cold and beautiful ship, too ill to reach the shore.
但对于萨拉来说，那是她在短短13天内硬活出了四部电影的地方：从日复一日重复人生的《土拨鼠之日》，到因逃不出被操控命运而绝望的《楚门的世界》，再到突然就陷入超现实惊悚世界的《阴阳魔界》，最后来到不知道何时会被选中、剔除、杀死的《饥饿游戏》。
But for Sarah, it was where she had managed to live out four films in just 13 days: from The Groundhog Day, which was repeated day after day, to Truman's World, which was hopelessly dominated by fate, to The Yin and Yang worlds, which suddenly became a surreal thriller, and ended up in Hunger Game, which she didn't know when to pick, cull, and kill.
此刻，顺着海水和鸟叫，萨拉试图舒缓那场厄运带来的创伤。
Now, along the sea and the birds, Sarah was trying to soothe the wounds of that doom.
潮起，汐落，大海用它日复一日的从容，教她在起伏不定的人生中保持镇定、保持呼吸。
Tidal and tidal, the sea with its day-to-day leisurely, teach her to keep calm and breathe in the ups and downs of life.
在这场本可以把她撕成两半的不幸中，53岁的她意外地发现自己比想象中更坚强。
In the misery that would have torn her in two, the 53-year-old found herself surprisingly stronger than she had imagined.
灾难大如泰山崩于前，但包裹在小小身躯里的柔软内心，总要拿些什么与之共处。
Disaster is as big as Mount Tai collapse before, but wrapped in a small body in the soft heart, always take something with it.
萨拉·阿拉纳 (Sarah Arana) 是一名拥有18年危机干预经验的社会工作者。
Sarah Arana is a social worker with 18 years of experience in crisis intervention.
受访者供图以下内容根据萨拉·阿拉纳(Sarah Arana)的叙述整理：奢靡之旅我经常独自做环球旅行，所以这次也不例外。
According to Sarah Arana, I often travel around the world on my own, so this one is no exception.
朋友跟我说中国过年的时候，会有很多庆祝活动，所以我就特意选了这个时段来旅行。
My friends told me that there will be many celebrations in China during the Spring Festival, so I chose this time to travel.
钻石公主号恰恰会在正月初一，停留在香港。
The Princess Diamond will be in Hong Kong on the first day of the first month.
所以我就花了2100美金，预定了1月20日－2月4日的邮轮。
So I booked a cruise from Jan. 20 to Feb. 4 for $2,100.
钻石公主号从日本横滨出发，经过鹿儿岛，1月25日到达香港。
Departing from Yokohama, Japan, the Princess Diamond passed through Kagoshima and arrived in Hong Kong on January 25.
但香港取消了所有的集会、焰火等庆祝活动，那时我真的非常失望。
But I was really disappointed when Hong Kong canceled all festivities for rallies, fireworks and so on.
虽然没有去成，但我还是尽量对余下的行程抱着期待。
I didn't make it, but I tried to look forward to the rest of the trip.
后来我们去了越南，划了皮艇；去台湾看了世贸中心，吃了水饺，还去了一家获奖餐厅喝了亚洲啤酒，我玩得还挺开心。
Then we went to Vietnam, we rowed in a kayak, we went to Taiwan to see the World Trade Center, ate dumplings, and went to an award-winning restaurant for Asian beer.
船上的生活也很赞，钻石公主号是一艘很美丽的邮轮，我每晚都会去开放式巨幕前看电影，去大型剧场看一流的表演，还有赌场，龙虾，法式蜗牛和鱼子酱，船员的服务简直太好了。
Life on board was wonderful, and the Princess Diamond was a beautiful cruise. Every night I went to see the movies in front of the attic, I went to the big theater to see the best performances, and casinos, lobster, French snails and caviar.
一切都高端大气上档次，这是我头一次坐邮轮，也是我这大半辈子做过的最奢侈的事情，堪称奢靡。
It was the first cruise in my life and the most extravagant thing I've ever done in my life.
这段美好的旅程，在最后两天，突然变得很怪。
This wonderful journey, in the last two days, suddenly became very strange.
就在我们即将回到日本横滨的时候，在香港下船的一个乘客被确诊了新冠肺炎，这导致日本政府拒绝我们驶进横滨港，钻石公主号只能暂时在离岸的海面上停着。
Just as we were about to return to Yokohama, Japan, a passenger disembarked in Hong Kong was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia, which led the Japanese government to deny us access to Yokohama, and the Princess Diamond had to stay temporarily offshore.
隔离检疫下的钻石公主号。
The Princess Diamond under quarantine.
图片来自网络2月4日早晨6:30，来自意大利的船长阿尔马，正式宣布我们进入14天的强制隔离期，所有乘客只能呆在自己的客舱里面。
Photo taken at 6: 30 am on the Internet February 4, Italian captain Alma, officially declared that we enter a 14-day mandatory quarantine period, all passengers can only stay in their own cabin.
最开始的时候我只是有点担心，并没有害怕。
At first I was just a little worried, not scared.
直到我看见日本的官员到船上来测量每个人的体温时，我才突然意识到，事情不妙了。
It wasn't until I saw Japanese officials on board to take everyone's temperature that I suddenly realized that things were going badly.
大家都很震惊，几乎没人相信眼下发生的事。
Everyone was shocked that almost no one believed what was happening.
乘客们马上组了一个脸书群，开始合力搞清疫情信息。
Passengers immediately assembled a Facebook group, began to work together to understand the epidemic information.
邮轮有一面朝大海，一面朝陆地。
The ship had one side facing the sea and the other facing land.
朝陆地的乘客每天会数外面停了多少辆救护车，以知道那天有多少个确诊的人会被带走。
Land-bound passengers count the number of ambulances parked outside each day to see how many confirmed people will be taken away that day.
然后他们会把这个信息分享在群里，让面朝大海的乘客知道。
They would then share this information with the group, so that passengers facing the sea would know.
2月11日，从萨拉的房间可以看到路上的救援车辆。
On 11 February, rescue vehicles on the road were visible from Sarah's room.
受访者供图唱歌跳舞敷面膜隔离最难的地方，是长时间被困在客舱里，没什么活动。
The hardest part of the area was being stuck in the cabin for a long time. There was no movement.
有的客舱连窗户也没有，乘客会很长时间呼吸不到新鲜空气。
Some cabins do not even have windows, and passengers will not be able to breathe fresh air for a long time.
他们只能按轮船规定，轮流在固定时间去甲板上透气。
They could only go on deck at regular intervals, as stipulated by the steamer.
我的房间有阳台，所以还可以站出去呼吸新鲜空气来舒压。
My room has a balcony, so I can stand out for some fresh air to relieve the pressure.
但回到客舱内，我又看到电视里全世界都在讨论着这个全新的、致命的病毒，确诊病例又在迅速增加。
But back in the cabin, I saw the whole world talking on TV about this new, deadly virus, and the number of confirmed cases was increasing rapidly.
我第一次坐邮轮，第一次到日本，更不熟悉日本政府，所有这些未知都挤压在这封闭狭小的客舱里。
My first cruise, my first trip to Japan, and even less familiarity with the Japanese government, all these unknowns squeezed together in this confined cabin.
事情突然完全不受我控制，我无助、绝望，但当下，我还是马上决定：如何应对，这是我唯一可以控制的。
Things suddenly completely out of my control, I helpless, desperate, but now, I decided immediately: how to deal with it, this is the only control I can control.
这是一种应对技能和心态。
This is a coping skill and mindset.
在长达18年的时间里，我管理着美国“火人节”的一个急诊医疗站，积累了许多危机干预经验。
For 18 years, I managed an emergency medical station in the United States, where I gained experience in crisis intervention.
它们让我在面对这突然降临的灾难时，有足够的心理准备。
They prepared me well for the sudden disaster.
（编者注：火人节是每年在美国黑石沙漠举行的反传统狂欢节。
(Note to the Editor: April Flames is an annual anti-traditional carnival in the Black Rock Desert.
）第一天开始隔离，为了打发无聊，我就在阳台上跳舞，头顶都是直升机不停的轰鸣声。
) The first day I was quarantined, I danced on the balcony with the constant roar of helicopters overhead.
如果你们看到邮轮照片里有人在跳舞，那估计就是我了。
If you see someone dancing in a cruise photo, I guess it's me.
希望我的邻居们不会介意我没完没了地循环播放和放声歌唱各种美国乡村、流行、摇滚音乐。
I hope my neighbors won't mind my endless cycle of playing and singing American country, pop and rock music.
萨拉在钻石公主号上的房间。
Sarah's room on the Princess Diamond.
受访者供图到了第三天，（船上）新增了41例确诊病例。
By the third day, 41 new cases had been confirmed.
我们开始每天要量好几次体温。
We began to measure our temperature several times a day.
如果发烧，就要马上打电话给前台，他们就会安排我们下船。
If there is a fever, call the front desk immediately and they will arrange for us to disembark.
这天，我发现光靠我自己有点艰难。
On this day, I found it a little hard to rely on myself.
我决定去“独自旅行女性”的网络小组发发信息，看看有没人也在这艘船上，寻求点支持。
I decided to send a message to the "Traveling the Woman Alone" online group to see if anyone else was on board and looking for support.
没有。
No.
但在短短几小时内，2000多名来自世界各国的女性纷纷站出来，给了我很多支持和鼓励。
But in just a few hours, more than 2,000 women from all over the world have come forward to give me a lot of support and encouragement.
那天，阿尔马船长也在广播里正式跟大家提到我们的脸书“乘客群”。
That day, Captain Alma also made a formal mention of our Facebook "Passenger Crowd" on the radio.
他鼓励我们在群里互相支持、帮助和沟通。
He encouraged us to support, help and communicate with each other in the group.
好的，就这么办吧！在他的引导下，我们拿起自己客舱里的电话，打给其他陌生乘客，互相安抚。
All right, let's do it! Under his guidance, we picked up the phone in our cabin, called other strangers, and comforted each other.
和我沟通的比较多的有一家人，带着6岁的小孩，呆在没有新鲜空气的客舱。
And I communicate more with a family, with a 6-year-old child, stay in the cabin without fresh air.
还有一个丈夫被确诊带走，自己留在船上的妻子。
Another husband was diagnosed and taken away, leaving his wife on the boat.
当然还有其他一些人，我们后来都成为了朋友。
There were other people, of course, and we all became friends.
我们跟对方讲笑话、尽量笑、努力做到最好。
We tell jokes, laugh as much as we can and try to be the best.
我们还会和被确诊的人联络，知道了他们有被好好照顾，而且很多人只有轻微的症状，恢复得也很快。
We also communicate with people who have been diagnosed and know that they are well cared for, and many have only mild symptoms and recover quickly.
同时，我一直跟自己说：“不要害怕，我没有害怕”。
Meanwhile, I kept saying to myself, "Don't be afraid. I'm not afraid."
我让自己忙起来，研究草药、喝茶、在网上和朋友聊天、去阳台呼吸新鲜空气、晒太阳、还有敷面膜。
I busied myself studying herbs, drinking tea, chatting with friends online, going out on the balcony for fresh air, sun and a mask.
我尽力把精力集中在保持乐观上，而不是被恐惧消耗，不让我的想法溜去黑暗的角落。
I try to focus on optimism rather than being consumed by fear and letting my thoughts slip into the dark.
沉船噩梦尽管如此，到第4－6天的时候，随着确诊人数迅速上升，大家开始变得很沮丧、很愤怒。
Wreck Nightmare Despite this, by day 4-6, as the number of people diagnosed rose rapidly, everyone began to feel frustrated and angry.
你根本不知道明天会发生什么。
You have no idea what will happen tomorrow.
所有人最终都可以下船吗？我们甚至会想，日本有多少张病床可用。
Can everyone finally get off the boat? We even wonder how many beds are available in Japan.
我听说，有两个被带去医院的病人，6个小时后就被送走了，因为东京和横滨所有的病床都满了。
I heard that two patients who had been taken to the hospital were taken away six hours later because all the beds in Tokyo and Yokohama were full.
可我们的船上有3700多个人啊。
But we have more than 3,700 people on board.
我们都在想，天呐，万一检测出来感染了怎么办？更可怕的是，没有人知道病毒是怎么传播的。
We're all thinking, God, what if we detect an infection? And what's worse, no one knows how the virus spreads.
大家觉得是经过通风口，又或者，如果有人打开了房门，那病毒就会沿着走廊传播。
It was thought to pass through a vent, or, if someone opened the door, the virus would spread down the hallway.
2月6日，萨拉偷偷打开门，看了看走廊。
On 6 February, Sarah opened the door in secret and looked into the hallway.
邮轮工作人员不允许乘客走出舱门。
Passengers are not allowed to leave the hatch.
受访者供图我哭了好几次，一个人在客舱里，身边也没有人可以说话。
The interviewee told me to cry several times. I was alone in the cabin and nobody could talk.
那时候大家想，是不是所有得病的人最后都会死掉。
At that time, it was thought that all the sick people would die in the end.
我们看到电视里中国的死亡数字越来越高，确诊越来越多，而同时你就待在这样一艘带着病毒、确诊人数也越来越高的船上。
We're seeing an increasing number of deaths and diagnoses on television, and you're staying on a ship with a virus and a growing number of diagnoses.
有天晚上，邮轮载着我们出海去取水和排泄的时候，天空电闪雷鸣。
One night, when a cruise ship was taking us out to fetch water and drain, the sky was thunderous.
我真的想着，我是不是也要死了。
I really wonder if I'm going to die, too.
我一直做噩梦。
I've been having nightmares.
梦里，钻石公主号驶出海，被刻意沉入海底，我永远没有离开日本，没有回到家人身边。
In the dream, the Princess Diamond steered out of the sea, deliberately sank into the sea, I never left Japan, did not return to their families.
有天，我突然闻见通风口排出了一股很重的化学品味，然后我的眼睛和嗓子都疼得很厉害，有好几秒，我问我自己：“他们这是要毒死我们了吗？他们是不是害怕船上所有的人都会感染病毒，而他们不想再让病毒扩散，所以要把我们全部杀了，然后船驶出大海，让它沉下去？”这个不是梦，这是我清醒时候发生的事。
One day, I caught a whiff of a heavy chemical taste coming out of the vent, and then my eyes and throat ached terribly. For seconds, I asked myself, "Are they afraid that everyone on the ship will get the virus and they don't want it to spread, so kill us all and sail out of the sea and let it sink?"
整个过程非常紧张，但这种情绪是很难对外人准确传达的，它来来去去就像波浪一样，十分强烈、可怕。
The whole process was tense, but the emotion was hard to convey accurately. It came and went like a wave, very strong and terrible.
很多乘客过得非常挣扎和痛苦，有的乘客拒绝餐食，因为怕食物里有病毒；有的乘客说自己的降压药没了胸口疼、有的帕金森病药没了、有的因为肾痛在哭嚎、有的烟民无处吸烟发泄、有的隔壁乘客被确诊了自己心也慌了…… 他们心理遭受了很重的创伤，有的会得创伤后应激障碍，很需要心理治疗。
Some passengers said they had no chest pain, some had no Parkinson's medicine, some were crying with pain in their kidneys, some had nowhere to smoke, some were diagnosed with heart problems, some had post-traumatic stress disorder and needed psychotherapy.
海上隔离期间，萨拉靠在阳台呼吸新鲜空气缓解压力。
During the isolation at sea, Sara leaned on the balcony for fresh air to relieve the pressure.
受访者供图联合起来，面对今天在这些伤痛、恐怖的噩梦、幻想、真真假假间，阿尔马船长会让邮轮的两面轮流朝海，这样乘客就能轮流看到大海，而不总是陆地上的一排排救护车。
In the face of today's grief, horror, nightmares, fantasies and false starts, Captain Alma turns the two sides of the cruise ship seaward so that passengers can take turns looking at the sea instead of the rows of ambulances on land.
他每天都会频繁通过广播跟我们讲一些暖心的话，比如“我知道这对大家来说很艰难，我很抱歉，我们和你们在一起”，“100%的空气都是净化过的，病毒不会靠通风口传播”，“我们会努力做到我们能做得最好”，或者“我的角斗士们，让我们联合起来，面对今天”。
"I know it's tough for everyone, I'm sorry we're with you," "100 percent of the air is purified and the virus doesn't spread through the vents," "We'll try to do our best," or "My Gladiators, let's unite and face the day."
这些话对我们来说，就像每天的救命稻草一样。
These words are like daily life-saving straw for us.
为了缓解我们的压力，他还给我们放了很多新电影，送我们拼图、游戏、日本手工折纸、还有保温壶、合味道方便面等。
To relieve our stress, he gave us new movies, puzzles, games, Japanese hand-made origami, hot pots, instant noodles, etc.
那个和我一直在互相支持的、带着6岁孩子的爸爸，告诉我他们收到了邮轮送的玩具、乐高、糖果、还有冰激凌。
My father, a 6-year-old and I had been supporting each other, told me they had received toys, Lego, candy and ice cream from a cruise ship.
孩子高兴坏了，等终于轮到他们去甲板上透气时，孩子都不愿意出门。
The children were so happy that when it was finally their turn to go on deck for air, the children would not go out.
现在倒回来看，阿尔马船长当时也被隔离着，但是他还一直在工作。
Now, looking back, Captain Alma was also quarantined, but he was still working.
钻石公主号是他的船，他需要跟日本政府、厚生劳动省、全体船员、以及各国使馆沟通各种大事小事，还要面对船上2600多个被吓坏了的、哭泣的、愤怒的的乘客，以及他们无止尽的问题。
The Princess of Diamonds was his ship, and he needed to communicate with the Japanese government, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the crew and embassies about all the important issues and problems, as well as the more than 2,600 frightened, weeping, angry passengers on board, and their endless problems.
但他从来不发脾气，也从不对谁无理。
But he never lost his temper and was never rude to anyone.
在船上的所有时间，他都用正直和尊重来对每件事、每个人，举止十分有风度。
All the time he was in the boat, he behaved with integrity and respect towards everything, everyone, and everyone.
在他的带领下，1000多名船员在高压下的表现依然非常好。
Under his leadership, more than 1,000 crew members continued to perform very well under high pressure.
在那些我们和船员一样都要面对隔离、病毒和死亡的日子里，我有时只想躺下，靠倒立来帮助我放松冷静，但船员们还得继续工作，一个客舱接一个客舱地去服务。
During the days when we were faced with isolation, viruses, and death like the crew, I sometimes just wanted to lie down and help me unwind by standing on my head, but the crew had to go on working, serving from cabin to cabin.
比如一日三餐的供应。
Like three meals a day.
邮轮上的乘客分布在15层，要给这么多人送餐，其实是一件非常非常难的事。
The passengers on the cruise ship were on the 15th floor and it was very, very difficult to feed so many people.
隔离到第9天的时候，我客舱里的茶快喝完了。
Isolated to the ninth day, my cabin tea was running out.
没茶对我个人来说，绝对是危机。
No tea for me personally, definitely a crisis.
我问船员可不可以从厨房拿一点茶给我。
I asked the crew if they could get me some tea from the kitchen.
后来那个船员敲了我的门，跟我说：“我不知道你喜欢哪种，所以我把所有的种类都带来了”。
"Then the seaman knocked at my door and said," I don't know which one you like, so I brought all the varieties.
我太高兴了。
I'm so happy.
船员送萨拉的茶。
The crew sent Sarah tea.
受访者供图同样也在那艰难的第9天，我收到了“独自旅行女性”小组里，多达5000多名来自世界各地的女性的支持！哇！我太感动了。
On the ninth day of difficulty, I received support from more than 5,000 women from all over the world. Wow! I was so touched.
每分钟，所有涌来的支持都让隔离的感受变得十分不同。
Every minute, all the support that comes in makes the sense of isolation very different.
虽然各种心情来来去去十分强烈，就像过山车一样，我也尽力把精力都集中在我感受到的爱上，比如有个非常友善的日本媒体船，每天会打出希望和鼓励的标志。
Although the moods came and went, like a roller coaster, I tried to concentrate on what I felt in love, such as a very friendly Japanese media boat that displayed signs of hope and encouragement every day.
再比如有天，有35名医生和45名护士上船来帮助我们，他们全都是志愿者，就这样把自己暴露在危险之中。
Another day, for example, 35 doctors and 45 nurses came aboard to help us, all volunteers, thus exposing themselves to danger.
我对他们的同情心和服务意愿充满敬意。
I salute their compassion and willingness to serve.
我让这些爱激励着我，坚持下去。
I let that love inspire me to stick to it.
我跟自己说，这个过程虽然漫长，但总会有结束的一天。
I told myself it would be a long time, but there would always be an end.
每天都会打出励志标语的日本媒体船。
Japanese media boats that carry motivational slogans every day.
受访者供图凌晨2点，“欢迎回家”尽管如此，隔离期的最后几天，整只船都闷在抑郁之中。
Respondents were given 2 a. m., "Welcome home." Despite this, the boat was depressed for the last few days of the quarantine.
越来越多人开始给自己的使馆打电话——美国，加拿大，澳大利亚，英国，强烈地表达我们撤侨的需要，因为我们不能再在船上呆着了。
More and more people are calling their embassies - the United States, Canada, Australia, Britain - and voicing our need to evacuate overseas Chinese, because we can no longer stay on board.
我想在船上隔离，是一个十分糟糕的决定。
I think it's a terrible decision to be quarantined on the ship.
虽然船上有很多人，我也知道这样做会很难，但我还是觉得我们得下船去别的地方隔离。
Although there were a lot of people on board, and I knew it would be hard, but I still felt we had to get off the boat and isolate ourselves somewhere else.
船员给我拿来了当地的报纸，钻石公主号的照片被印在了头版。
The crew brought me the local newspaper, and pictures of the Princess Diamond were printed on the front page.
这对于在船上的我来说，太不真实了。
It's too unreal for me on this ship.
虽然船的照片看起来很熟悉，但是它周围浮动着这么多迷雾，黑暗且神秘。
Although the photograph of the ship looks familiar, it is surrounded by so much fog, darkness and mystery.
隔离结束前，美国国务院终于确认要来撤侨了。
By the end of the quarantine, the State Department had finally confirmed the evacuation.
但前提是回到美国后，我们还需要再被隔离14天，以防病毒传播。
But if we go back to the United States, we need to be quarantined for another 14 days to prevent the virus from spreading.
有些乘客听到回美国后还有14天的隔离期，很沮丧。
Some passengers were dismayed to hear that there was still a 14-day quarantine period after returning to the United States.
不过我能理解这个决定，如果这样可以救起一个生命，那14天的时间就是值得花的。
But I understand the decision that if it saves a life, the 14 days are worth it.
这也是我身为公民的责任。
It is also my civic duty.
我终于要回家了。
I'm finally going home.
我没办法停止哭泣。
I can't stop crying.
钻石公主号登上了媒体头版。
The Princess Diamond was on the front page.
受访者供图2月14号情人节，船员给所有乘客送了玫瑰和巧克力。
For Valentine's Day on February 14, the crew gave all the passengers roses and chocolates.
船长阿尔马给大家读了一首圣经中的诗：“爱承载万物、相信万物、期盼万物、忍耐万物。
Captain Alma read us a biblical poem: "Love bears all things, believes in all things, waits for all things, endures all things.
爱永不落败。
Love is never lost.
我祝大家情人节快乐。
I wish everyone a happy Valentine's Day.
”当晚，我百感交集。
That night I had mixed feelings.
很快就要离开那只船了，我终于松了口气的同时，也有点伤心。
I was about to leave the boat, but at last I was relieved and a little sad.
这很难解释。
This is difficult to explain.
就像我在离开前，船员又给我送了个礼物，是个船锚十字绣，亲手绣好后就可以当项链挂起来，我很喜欢。
Just as before I left, the crew gave me a gift, a boat anchor cross stitch, embroidered with your own hands can be hung as a necklace, I like it.
撤离发生在2月16日深夜，所有事情都比预计的时间长。
The evacuation took place late on 16 February, and everything took longer than expected.
撤离全程十分混乱，我们分坐在7辆大巴上，看着两架空飞机就在远处停着，但我们硬是坐着等了5个小时，登不了机。
It was a messy ride. We sat on seven buses and watched the two empty planes stop in the distance, but we just sat there for five hours and couldn't get on.
晚上也看不太清周围发生了什么，更不知道发生了什么事。
At night I can't see what's going on around me, and I don't know what's going on.
不过现在我知道了。
But now I know.
因为当我们的飞机落地美国加州后，我打开手机，看到铺天盖地的新闻，才知道那是因为撤离时，日本官员突然出现，说检测结果出来了，撤侨人员中有14例确诊。
Because when our plane landed in California, I turned on my cell phone and saw the news all over the place. I knew it was because of the sudden appearance of Japanese officials at the time of the evacuation, saying that the test results had come out and 14 of the evacuees had been diagnosed.
美国国务院坚持要带确诊人员回国，而美国疾病防控中心则坚持拒绝，他们一直在争执。
The U. S. State Department insists it wants to bring home the confirmed, but the U. S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has been arguing.
但最后明显国务院的人赢了。
But in the end it was obvious the State Department won.
但撤侨全程，没人告诉我们飞机上有确诊病例。
But the evacuation process, no one told us that there were confirmed cases on the plane.
这些争执我们也都没看见。
We didn't see any of these arguments either.
在大使馆给我们的几封撤侨邮件里，他们反复强调不会带确诊病例或有症状的人回国，所以大家才决定搭乘撤侨飞机。
In several letters sent to us by the embassy to evacuate overseas Chinese, they repeatedly insisted that they would not bring back people with confirmed cases or symptoms, so they decided to take the overseas evacuation plane.
我不知道确诊病人就坐在飞机上塑料帘子的背后。
I didn't know the patient was sitting behind a plastic curtain on the plane.
我甚至不知道那里有人。
I didn't even know anyone was there.
那可是10个小时的飞机啊，这意味着我们在汽车和飞机上都暴露在有病毒的环境之中。
It's a 10-hour plane, which means we're exposed to viruses in cars and airplanes.
因此当下了飞机，手机推送说机上有确诊病例的时候，很多人非常恼火。
So when the plane, the cell phone, said there was a confirmed case on the plane, many people were very angry.
我的第一反应是，他们是美国公民，带他们回家确实是应该的，他们应该和家人在一起，在自己的国土上得到治疗。
My first reaction was that they were citizens of the United States, that it was indeed right to take them home, that they should be with their families and treated on their own soil.
我是坚信这点的。
I am convinced of that.
虽然过程不太顺利，但当我们落地后，疾病防控中心、卫生和福利部、全球移民及检疫处、还有不同的军方人员，都在飞机门口站成了一排迎接我们，标牌上写着“欢迎回家”，每个人都非常温暖和热情。
It wasn't easy, but when we landed, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Department of Health and Welfare, the Global Migration and Quarantine Service, and various military personnel lined up to greet us at the airport. The signs said, "Welcome home." Everyone was warm and warm.
虽然我们十分疲惫，但很感动。
Although we are very tired, but very moved.
我以前也听过“欢迎回家”，但这次不同，这次十分诚恳，我骨子里都能感觉到。
I've heard of "welcome home" before, but this time it was different, and this time it was so sincere that I could feel it inside.
我永远不会忘记这些。
I'll never forget that.
那是凌晨2点。
It was two o'clock in the morning.
2月15日，撤离之前，船员送萨拉的十字绣。
On 15 February, before the evacuation, the crew delivered Sara's cross stitch.
受访者供图陌生人的礼物在特拉维斯空军基地的日子好多了，虽然我们还是在被严格的隔离中。
Respondents' gifts to strangers were much better at Travis Air Force Base, although we were still in strict isolation.
我们可以出外散步，只是大家互相之间都要保持距离，没人可以碰我们。
We can go out for a walk, but we have to keep each other at arm's length. No one can touch us.
这和船上的隔离很不一样。
It's very different from the isolation on the ship.
当时我们总在水上，可以感觉到水的流动，而且客舱很小。
We were always on the water, we could feel the water flowing, and the cabin was very small.
现在我们回到自己的国家，没有语言隔阂，而且在大地上了，也有了更多空间，还可以出去走走，锻炼一下，整体好多了。
Now we are back in our own country, with no language barriers and more space on the ground. We can go out for a walk, do some exercises and feel better overall.
可能很多人会觉得这还是挺放松的。
Maybe a lot of people will find it relaxing.
其实也不是，因为一直有人会来敲门，送饭、量体温、传达信息、或者问问题，其实并不放松。
Not really, because someone has been knocking at the door, delivering food, measuring body temperature, sending messages, or asking questions, but not really relaxing.
2月20日是我的生日，是很艰难的一天。
February 20th is my birthday and it is a very hard day.
我本来应该和我的家人在一起，但因为隔离，这些聚会全部取消了。
I was supposed to be with my family, but the parties were all cancelled because of the isolation.
我把所有的东西都关掉，自己一个人静静地坐着，彻底安静。
I turned everything off and sat quietly, completely quiet, all by myself.
过了一会儿，门口有敲门声，我没去开。
After a while, there was a knock at the door.
过了很久，又有敲门声。
After a long time there was another knock at the door.
是卫生部的人，他们每天都会来给我量两次体温。
It's from the Ministry of Health. They come to take my temperature twice a day.
有一个人让我走出来。
A man asked me to come out.
他们从来没有叫我出去过。
They never told me to go out.
我的心都沉了！我知道我就要被人带走，坐“免费”的车，然后去某个透明光亮的实验室。
My heart sank! I knew I was going to be taken away in a "free" car to some transparent, shiny lab.
我几乎都要开始哭了。
I almost started to cry.
当我走出房间的时候，他们竟然开始给我唱生日快乐。
When I walked out of the room, they started singing happy birthday to me.
有一个人拿着一把吉他，听起来就很像彩排好了才来的。
There was a guy with a guitar and it sounded like a rehearsal.
天啊，这些穿制服的卫生部工作人员在给我唱生日快乐？他们送了我电子的纸牌游戏还有纸杯蛋糕。
Oh, my gosh, these uniformed health workers are singing me a happy birthday? They gave me electronic cards and cupcakes.
然后就离开了。
And then he left.
过了一会儿，又有人来敲门，他告诉我把门开着，然后往我房间里卸了一堆又一堆的快递礼物。
After a while, someone knocked at the door again. He told me to leave the door open and unloaded pile after pile of express gifts into my room.
有些是看了我在脸书的疫区日记，给我送支持的网友们送来的。
Some of them read my diary in the blight area of Facebook and sent it to the netizens who sent me support.
我找不到话来形容这个经历对我的触动有多深，谢谢他们的善良，大方和爱。
I can't find words to describe how much this experience touched me, thanks to their kindness, generosity and love.
谢谢。
Thank you.
为萨拉唱生日歌的工作人员。
A staff member singing a birthday song for Sarah.
受访者供图3月1号，隔离终于到了最后一天，我们竟然收到了船长阿尔马发来的告别视频。
The interviewee was shown on March 1 and the quarantine finally reached its final day when we received a farewell video from Captain Alma.
又听见了那个再熟悉不过的钻石公主号船长的声音，我竟奇怪地被安慰到了。
I was strangely comforted to hear again the familiar voice of the captain of the Princess Diamond.
船长是最后一个走下钻石公主号的人，当我看到那张他离开的照片时，我彻底崩溃了。
The captain was the last person to get off the Princess Diamond. When I saw the picture of him leaving, I completely collapsed.
这会儿我已经被带回美国，在一个挺不错的军事基地酒店隔离了十多天，但是天啊，他竟然才离开那艘船。
By now I had been taken back to the United States, isolated for more than ten days at a nice military base hotel, but, alas, he had only left the ship.
看着船长穿着他的制服，胳膊夹着他的船长帽，虽然还带着口罩，但看起来依然保持乐观，我哭了。
Watching the captain in his uniform, his cap under his arm, and wearing a mask, I looked optimistic and cried.
太难想象了，他真的做得太好了。
It's hard to imagine. He did it really well.
就让这张照片成为我这次疫情日记的终结照吧。
Let this picture be the end of my epidemic diary.
谢谢你，阿尔马船长。
Thank you, Captain Alma.
如果有一天我要再搭一次邮轮的话，我一定想都不想，去搭他的邮轮。
If I had to take another cruise one day, I wouldn't even think of going on his cruise.
隔离终于结束了，我逐渐回到日常生活里来。
The isolation was at last over, and I gradually returned to my daily life.
我是单身，以前经常独处。
I'm single. I used to be alone.
在这个世界生存，会有负面和可怕的时候，很多人在挣扎和受苦。
In this world of existence, there will be negative and terrible times, many people are struggling and suffering.
但是这次，不是某个个人，而是几千个陌生人，他们一起支持我，甚至给我寄礼物，让我要坚持。
But this time, instead of an individual, there were thousands of strangers who supported me and even sent me a gift to insist on.
这些人组合在一起涌来爱，我的内心完全被撬开了。
These people came together to love, and my heart was pried open.
这些世事的转变，修复了我对人的信心，给了我很多力量和勇气，去更加乐观地生活下去。
These changes have restored my faith in people, given me a lot of strength and courage to live a more optimistic life.
我真的很想把这个势头持续下去，给世界带来一些改变，无论是通过写博客或者写书的方式。
I really want to keep the momentum going and make some difference to the world, whether by blogging or writing books.
因为这个世界上还有很多美好的东西。
Because there are so many beautiful things in this world.
2月24日，隔离在空军基地的人一起踢球，来缓解等待检测结果的焦虑。
On Feb. 24, men quarantined at the airbase played football together to assuage the anxiety of waiting for test results.
受访者供图最后，我很想让中国的读者知道，我和你们在一起。
Finally, I would like to let readers in China know that I am with you.
我不想让中国人民觉得所有人都会因为这个病毒讨厌你们，责怪你们。
I don't want the Chinese people to think that everyone will hate you and blame you for this virus.
我知道确实有一些歧视，我有揭发过这种歧视，其他人也有揭发这种歧视。
I know that there is some discrimination, that I have denounced it and that others have denounced it.
我想让你们知道，我们爱你们。
I want you to know that we love you.
我知道这不是你们的错，你们也在承受这些厄运。
I know it's not your fault, and you're suffering from it.
保持乐观，这些都会过去的，希望我们能够重新建立起信任。
Keep optimistic, all this will pass, hope we can re-establish trust.
我的心与你们同在。
My heart is with you.
Ps. 2月9号，钻石公主号宣布给乘客全额退款，包括机票、酒店、地面交通、上岸游览项目、小费，以及其他消费。
On February 9, the Princess Diamond announced a full refund for all passengers including airfare, hotel, ground transportation, shore excursions, tips and other expenses.
小费虽然会退回给乘客，但公司会支付给船员他们已得的小费。
Tips may be returned to the passengers, but the company will pay the crew the tips they have received.
所有乘客还将得到另一次全额免费旅行。
All passengers will also be given another full free trip.
隔离期间所有费用不计。
All costs incurred during isolation are not included.
钻石公主号船长格纳罗·阿尔马，因为这次的表现，被意大利人称为“英雄船长”，称他体现了意大利人永不放弃的精神。
The captain of the Princess Diamond, Gnaro Alma, was dubbed "Captain Hero" by the Italians for his performance, saying he embodied the Italian spirit of never giving up.
阿尔马在3月1日成为最后一个走下钻石公主号的人，他将被意大利总统授予最高国家级勋章——意大利共和国指挥官荣誉勋章。
On 1 March, Alma became the last person to step off the Princess Diamond, who will be awarded the highest national Medal of Honour by the President of Italy, the Commander of the Italian Republic.
今年44岁的他，在领导3710个生命度过黑暗的隔离期时，经常鼓励大家:“钻石，是一块在高压下表现卓越的碳”。
At the age of 44, he led 3,710 lives through dark periods of isolation, often encouraging people: "Diamonds are a carbon that does well under pressure."
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论陈腾驻纽约纪录片导演、记者她的新片《成为母亲》正在拍摄中。
AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
如有兴趣联系她，请在后台留言，并说明身份、来意，以方便转告。
If you are interested to contact her, please leave a message in the background, and explain your identity, to facilitate transmission.
。
.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
和病毒一起旅行：我在钻石公主号上的28天。
Traveling with the Virus: 28 days on the Princess Diamond.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "和病毒一起旅行：我在钻石公主号上的28天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "钻石，是一块在高压下表现卓越的碳。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Diamonds, a piece of carbon that performs remarkably well at high pressure.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
