金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”。
Gold and Silver Pool Hospital ICU medical team leader Fang Minghao: Severe treatment is like "walking steel wire."
王昱倩。
Yu Wang.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
“恐怕今后很长一段时间，武汉的医院在接诊患者的时候，都要做新冠病毒筛查并兼顾治疗原发病。
"I'm afraid that for a long time to come, Wuhan hospitals will have to be screened for the new crown virus and treat the primary disease.
急诊科的压力，恐怕比疫情初期还要重。
The emergency department is under more pressure than it was at the beginning of the outbreak.
”房明浩拍摄的金银潭医院南七楼ICU的工作场景。
"The working scene of ICU on the 7th floor of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
受访者供图文 | 新京报记者 王昱倩编辑｜李明校对| 吴兴发►本文约4791字，阅读全文约需10分钟金银潭医院南七楼的ICU重症监护室，收治的是最危重的新冠肺炎患者。
Chinese New Beijing News, editor Wang Yu-ming, proofread by Li Ming, editor of Xinjing News, has about 4791 words. It takes about 10 minutes to read the full text. The ICU intensive care unit on the south seventh floor of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital takes about 10 minutes to read the full text.
直到3月1日轮休，“救火队长”房明浩已经在此坚守40余天。
Until March 1 rotation break, "fire brigade commander" Fang Minghao has been here for more than 40 days.
房明浩是华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院急诊和重症医学科副主任，1月21日，也就是钟南山院士证实“新冠肺炎有人传人现象”的第二天，他赶赴金银潭医院支援。
Fang Minghao, deputy director of emergency and severe medicine at Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, rushed to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital on January 21, the day after academician Zhong Nan Shan confirmed "human-to-human transmission of new crown pneumonia."
当时，包括金银潭ICU的主任吴文娟在内，该科室的三位医生和两名护士都病倒了。
At the time, Wu Wenjuan, director of the ICU, the gold and silver pool, three doctors and two nurses from the department fell ill.
原本支援的房明浩，变成了临时主任。
Originally supported by Fang Minghao, became interim director.
疫情初期，金银潭的重症病房，“病人排队一样进来，有三分之一甚至一半的病人只剩一口气了。
In the early stages of the outbreak, in the intensive care unit of Gold and Silver Pool, "patients lined up and about a third or even half of the patients had only one breath left.
”3月11日，房明浩在接受新京报记者专访时称，眼下对新冠病毒的认识仍然不多，重症患者的救治也像在“走钢丝”。
In an interview with the Beijing News on March 11, Mr Green said awareness of the new crown virus was still low and treatment for the critically ill was "walking the tightrope."
面对诊疗手段的诸多争议，房明浩期待能有更多的有效经验。
In the face of many controversies about the means of diagnosis and treatment, Fang is looking forward to more effective experience.
值得欣喜的是，目前的战役形势有所缓和，“连金银潭的ICU也有空床位了。
To our delight, the current campaign has calmed down. "Even the ICU in the Gold and Silver Pool is free.
”穿着防护服工作的房明浩。
Mr Fang works in protective clothing.
受访者供图接力支援：临时重组的ICU团队新京报：你是什么时候到金银潭医院支援的？房明浩：1月21日，钟南山院士证实有人传人现象的第二天，我赶到金银潭医院支援。
Interviewees provided support for the relay: the temporarily restructured ICU team, The Beijing News: When did you come to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital to support it?
我是来接替我们医院急诊与危重症科副主任钟强教授的。
I have come to replace Professor Qiang Zhong, Deputy Director of Emergency and Critical Services of our hospital.
他支援了10天后，感觉胸闷去拍了CT，高度疑似感染新冠肺炎。
After 10 days of support, he felt chest tightness to take a CT scan and was highly suspected of contracting New Crown Pneumonia.
新京报：当时金银潭医院的情况怎么样？房明浩：当时，武汉市和湖北各级医院都调派医生支援金银潭医院，金银潭医院也从其他科室抽调医生加强ICU的人力。
At that time, doctors from Wuhan and Hubei hospitals were deployed to support the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, and the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital drew doctors from other departments to reinforce ICU manpower.
有的没有重症经验，有的是非临床一线的，负责帮忙开医嘱、陪病人做检查。
Some do not have severe experience, some non-clinical first-line, responsible for helping to prescribe medical orders, accompany patients for examination.
我们临时凑起来一个队伍，先排着班把日子过下去，把病人收治进来。
We formed a makeshift team to go through the day in a row and admitted the sick.
新京报：临时的ICU团队有多少人？房明浩：传染病医院的ICU病房，一个床位应该配备4个护士。
How many people does the temporary ICU team have? Fang Minghao: The ICU ward of the Infectious Diseases Hospital should have four nurses per bed.
我们有16张床位，却只有30多个专科护士。
We have 16 beds, but only more than 30 specialist nurses.
到了1月底，人手紧张的情况慢慢缓解，护士人数达到了50多个人。
By the end of January, staff constraints had eased and the number of nurses had reached more than 50.
除夕晚上，国家首批医疗队赶到支援，抽调专家，来做临床组长帮助管理危重病人。
On New Year's Eve, the country's first medical teams arrived to provide support and bring in specialists to help manage the critically ill.
之前卫健委专家组来的时候就意识到，三三两两的人员，跑到各个医疗单位支援，彼此不熟悉，效率低，后来就决定成建制地支援。
When the team of leading health care experts arrived, they realized that the three or three people, coming to the support of various medical units, were unfamiliar with each other, inefficient, and later decided to set up a support system.
我们来金银潭ICU支援时比较早，这儿的建制已经成型了。
When we came to Gold and Silver Pool ICU support earlier, the structure here has taken shape.
新京报：患者的情况怎么样？房明浩：金银潭ICU主要是从其他医疗单位接收危重病人。
Beijing News: How is the patient? Fang Minghao: Gold and Silver Pool ICU mainly receives critically ill patients from other medical units.
患者经过观察、确诊、转运，来到我们面前可能已经油尽灯枯。
The patient after observation, diagnosis, transshipment, come to our front may have run out of oil.
那段时间，ICU病房的死亡率特别高。
The death rate in ICU wards was particularly high during that period.
好不容易转进来的病人，当天就有可能死亡半数。
Patients who manage to get in are likely to die by half that day.
床位一直是满的。
The beds are always full.
病人很多“扎堆”收进来的。
Many of the patients were "bundled" in.
至少有三分之一或者半数，收进来时就只剩一口气了。
At least a third, or half, of that amount is taken in with only one breath left.
医生甚至并不知道这个人是从哪儿来的，我们一边打电话了解病情一边抢救。
The doctor didn't even know where the man came from. We called to find out what was wrong and to save him.
对于危重病人，我们往往是先救治再想办法找床位，容不得一点犹豫。
For the critically ill, we are often the first treatment before trying to find a bed, there is no room for hesitation.
救治难题：至今我们对这个疾病的认识也不多新京报：会遇到资源紧张的情况吗？房明浩：一开始面临的问题是医疗资源紧张、人员不够。
Healing the Trouble: So far we don't know much about the disease, either. Beijing News: Will we run into resource constraints?
1月25号之前，我们每天都是特别混乱的状态。
Before January 25, we were in a particularly chaotic state every day.
工作量增加到平时的3到5倍，每个人都达到了体力和能力的极限。
The workload has increased three to five times as much as usual, and everyone has reached the limits of his physical strength and ability.
物资最匮乏的是封城的前10天。
The material shortages were greatest during the first 10 days of the siege.
作为专业的传染病医院，金银潭的防护物资储备相对多一些。
As a professional hospital for infectious diseases, gold and silver pools have relatively large reserves of protective materials.
即使这样，最难的时候，物资储备也变成以1-2天为单位计算，医用防护服经常只够当天用的。
Even then, at the most difficult times, the stock of supplies becomes measured in 1-2 days, and medical protective clothing is often available only for the day.
护士4小时换一次班，一天6批人手进隔离区，算下来是40-50人次，后来增加到60-70人次。
Nurses change shifts every four hours, six shifts a day into the area of separation, taking into account 40-50 visits, and then increasing to 60-70.
防护服是每天的一项固定的消耗。
Protective clothing is a fixed daily expense.
一开始，捐来的防护服是工业级的，大家还很嫌弃地说，这怎么能用得上呢？后来发现，真的用得上。
At first, the donated protective clothing was of an industrial nature, and it was repugnant to say, "How could this be used?"
护士的体力劳动多，在隔离区呆得时间长，医用防护服就留给她们，医生们都穿工业级的防护服。
Nurses do a lot of manual work, spend long hours in the isolation area, leave them with medical protective clothing, and doctors wear industrial-grade protective clothing.
直到2月中旬，情况才慢慢好转了，工业防护服也用得越来越少了。
It was only in mid-February that the situation slowly improved and industrial protective clothing became less and less available.
新京报：你们在救治过程中面临的最大难题是什么？房明浩：至今我们对这个疾病的认识也不多。
The Beijing News: What is the biggest problem you face in the treatment process? Fang Minghao: So far we don't know much about this disease.
最早，我们认为是病毒性肺炎。
First, we thought it was viral pneumonia.
每年秋、冬季，会发生很多青壮年患病毒性肺炎的病例，呼吸科和ICU的医生，每年都会面对这批病人。
Every fall and winter, there are many cases of viral pneumonia in young adults. Doctors in the respiratory department and ICU deal with these patients every year.
后来发现，新冠肺炎危重病人的整个机体受损模式、特点跟重症病毒性肺炎不一样。
Later, it was found that the whole body damage pattern, characteristics and severe viral pneumonia in critically ill patients.
这就导致在做每一个治疗的时候，我们都不知道效果会怎么样。
This leads to a situation where we don't know what the effect will be with each treatment.
事情做下去，不知道对患者是有益还是有害的。
Things go on, not knowing whether it is good or bad for the patient.
这是至今都不太明确的一个问题。
This is an issue that has been less clear to date.
现在有很多专家共识，在危急状态下总结了一套经验，但是治疗方案是否有效还有待观察，现在定论，还是太早、太早。
There is now much expert consensus that a body of experience has been distilled in critical situations, but it remains to be seen whether treatment options will be effective, and it is too early and too soon.
新京报：重症病人的救治过程是不是更加漫长？房明浩：这些危重病人的病程都非常长，远超平时。
The Beijing News: Is the process of treating the seriously ill much longer? Fang Minghao: These critically ill people have a very long history, far longer than usual.
至今，我们抢救的大多数危重病人是在1月发病的。
Up to now, most of the critically ill people we have rescued fell ill in January.
前期发烧，中间好了几天，又出现呼吸困难。
Early fever, good in the middle of a few days, and breathing difficulties.
现在医疗条件变好了，不惜一切代价在救治，投入的医疗资源非常大。
Now medical conditions are better, at all costs in the treatment, the investment in medical resources is very large.
要不是这样，很多人撑不了那么久，可能一多半都死掉了。
If it hadn't been for that, many people wouldn't have lasted that long and probably would have died.
病情变化：新冠肺炎的死亡原因更发散新京报：眼下有没有总结出重症患者的病情发展规律？房明浩：现在根本就不清楚，每个患者（病情发展路线）都不一样。
Change of Disease: The Cause of Death in New Crown Pneumonia More Diffuse The Beijing News: Is there a summary of the development pattern of severe cases right now?
很多重症病人的肺，一直到出院比死亡的病人严重，但他照样可以痊愈出院。
Many patients with severe lung disease, until discharge from the hospital is more serious than the death of the patient, but he can still recover from hospital.
武汉一个医生感染后在金银潭抢救，他最后的胸片看不到什么特殊的，但还是死了。
Wuhan, a doctor after infection in the gold and silver pool rescue, his final chest film did not see anything special, but still died.
所以目前来说，肺只是一部分原因。
So for now, the lungs are only part of the story.
很多疾病，最后都走向了多脏器衰竭。
Many diseases end up with multiple organ failure.
新冠肺炎病人的死亡原因比以往见到的更发散。
The causes of death in patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia are more diverse than previously seen.
他会死于感染、出血、栓塞、心梗等等。
He'll die of infections, bleeding, embolism, cardiac arrest, and so on.
这反映了整个身体机能的问题。
This is a reflection of the whole body function.
严格意义上，我们称它为器官功能的急性障碍，而不是衰竭。
Strictly speaking, we call it acute impairment of organ function, not failure.
障碍是可逆的，衰竭是不可逆的。
The disorder is reversible, and exhaustion is irreversible.
ICU能做的是做器官支持治疗，比如排尿功能不好，用透析机；包括使用人工肝、ECMO。
What the ICU can do is do organ support treatments, such as poor urinary function, using dialysis machines, including artificial liver and ECMO.
新京报：有些重症病人早上查房好好的，查房一结束就停止呼吸了。
The Beijing News: Some patients with severe illness check in the morning good, the house inspection on the end of the stop breathing.
为什么病情会突然恶化？房明浩：我们现在认为的可能性有两个方面。
Why is the condition suddenly getting worse? Mr. Fang: There are two aspects to the possibility that we now see.
第一，病毒感染导致了全身机能损害，缺氧是其中一方面。
First, hypoxia is one of the systemic dysfunctions caused by viral infections.
多个脏器出现血栓，在机体最微小、末梢的单位在缺血缺氧、栓塞。
Multiple organs appear thrombosis, in the body's smallest, terminal units in ischemic hypoxia, embolism.
这种损害是微观的。
The damage is microscopic.
不是捅一刀子出血这么宏观的事情。
It's not like stabbing a knife to bleed so big.
另一方面，我们搞重症的人普遍观察到，危重患者好像丧失了机体对缺氧的正常反馈。
On the other hand, it has been widely observed in our seriously ill patients that they seem to have lost the body's normal feedback on hypoxia.
举个例子，一个正常人跑百米之后，会因为缺氧停止运动，通过弯腰呼吸等方式缓解，但这些患者却部分或全部丧失了这种自我保护机制。
For example, a normal person who runs 100 meters and stops exercising due to hypoxia is relieved by bending and breathing, but these patients lose some or all of this self-protection.
身体机能的微观损害，是缓慢加重的。
The microscopic damage to the function of the body is slowly increasing.
加重到机体无法维持正常，直接崩塌。
Aggravated to such an extent that the body cannot maintain normal, collapses directly.
一旦崩塌就特别严重。
Once the collapse is particularly serious.
新京报：所以病情的恶化是难以捕捉的？房明浩：病人看上去很平静，心率、呼吸也不快，实际上缺氧很严重，但他们的身体没有反应，不知道死亡已经来临了。
Mr. Fang: The patient looks calm, his heart rate, his breathing is not very good, he is actually very short of oxygen, but his body does not react and does not know that death has come.
如果他自己都感觉不到缺氧，那太危险了。
It would be too dangerous if he didn't feel the lack of oxygen himself.
实际上有些人还是在恶化的，表面上看不出来。
In fact, some people are still deteriorating, on the surface do not see.
这种病情变化不同于以往。
This change is different from the past.
按照以往，缺氧应该是呼吸很快，人昏迷了，全身大汗，但是他们还是很好的样子。
In the past, hypoxia should have been rapid breathing, coma, sweaty bodies, but they still look good.
医生通过查房或者现有的检查看不出来。
The doctor can't see it through a house inspection or an existing exam.
类似情况，以往只有在百草枯中毒的病人身上见到过。
Similarly, paraquat poisoning has only been seen in patients in the past.
新京报：这种病情的急剧恶化，ICU密切关注的指标能提前预测到吗？房明浩：我们会有包括生化、血气等一系列详细检查，但是目前效果都不理想。
The Beijing News: Can the indicators closely watched by the ICU be predicted ahead of time? Mr. Fang: We will have a series of detailed examinations including bio-chemistry, bio-gas, etc. But so far the results have not been satisfactory.
现在很难去预判患者的预后走向。
It is difficult to predict the prognosis of patients.
有的病人，几天前我就觉得他很重了，后面病情却一直稳定。
Some patients, a few days ago I thought he was very heavy, but the disease has been stable behind.
也有的病人，各方面情况在明显好转，却会突然再次加重。
In some patients, the situation is clearly improving, but will suddenly increase again.
指脉氧是80%的患者，有的5天、10天后依然是80%，有的不到两个小时就死了。
Fingerprint oxygen is 80% of the patients, some 5 days, 10 days later is still 80%, some less than two hours died.
疗法争议：救治过程好像是在走钢丝新京报：金银潭医院的病人大多是转院过来的，早期医生的诊疗方式会不会与金银潭医院产生分歧？房明浩：早期大家都是“盲人摸象”，根据以往的经验，后来跟着诊疗方案走，大原则上是差不多的。
The treatment process seems to be taking place on a tightrope. The majority of patients at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital were referred to the hospital. Will the early doctors' mode of diagnosis and treatment diverge from that of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital?
比如，医生之间有关于激素疗法的争议，但并不能说明现在使用激素，是好还是不好。
For example, there is a debate among doctors about hormone therapy, but that doesn't mean it's good or bad to use hormones now.
以往重症肺炎的病人我们经常使用激素。
We used to use hormones in patients with severe pneumonia in the past.
危重病人是一千个人一千个样子，我们追求的是先活命，再治病。
A thousand men and a thousand men are seriously ill. We seek to live before we cure.
以前从来没有过这种情况，大家都比较困惑，好的方法就靠反复总结经验教训。
Never before has this been the case, and everyone is confused. The best way to do this is to repeat the lessons learned.
新京报：对于重症患者，很多人把ECMO当做救命神器。
The Beijing News: For the seriously ill, many people use ECMO as a lifesaving artifact.
房明浩：我们医院七楼ICU几乎一个月没上一台ECMO。
Fang Minghao: Our hospital on the seventh floor ICU almost a month did not have an ECMO.
ECMO的维护需要专业的队伍，如果没有，上了只会让病人死的更快。
Maintenance of ECMO requires a professional team, and if not, it will only cause the patient to die faster.
它只是个拐棍或者轮椅，不是长出一双腿。
It's just a stick or wheelchair, not a pair of legs.
对于重症患者，不论是ECMO、呼吸机，包括用药，效果都不理想，都是争取时间的一种方式。
For seriously ill patients, whether ECMO, respirator, including medication, the effect is not ideal, are a way to gain time.
如果时机抢得好，患者的器官功能就会恢复，否则就转向衰竭，慢慢死亡。
If the timing is good, the patient's organ function will be restored, otherwise it will turn to exhaustion and slowly die.
我们使用这些仪器的目的，是希望给他一个时机，让他的脏器在这种急性打击之后，像我们电脑死机再开机一样，重新启动起来。
We use these devices in the hope of giving him a chance to get his viscera restarted after this acute blow, like our computer crashes again.
这批病人的特点是“全”或“无”。
The patients were characterized as "all" or "none."
要么是完全康复，要么是死亡。
Either fully recover or die.
新京报：前几天，法医刘良团队公布尸检结果，这些解剖结果对你们的临床治疗有帮助吗？房明浩：他公布的结论，与我们通过患者早期的临床表现倒推的结论没有大的区别。
The Beijing News: A few days ago, forensic Liu Liang's team released the autopsy results, which are helpful for your clinical treatment? Fang Minghao: His findings are not very different from those we extrapolated from the early clinical manifestation of the patient.
医生用纤维支气管镜和肺泡镜，也可以看到肺部的状态。
Doctors can also see the state of the lungs with fiberoptic bronchoscopy and alveolar mirrors.
病理是金标准，绝对的，但是病理解剖病例的覆盖面不够大的话，还是存在一定的缺憾。
Pathology is the gold standard, absolute, but the coverage of pathological anatomy cases is not large enough, there is still a certain degree of imperfection.
研究对象的年龄、性别、基础疾病，甚至尸体处理条件，都影响了对临床的指导价值。
The age, sex, basic diseases, and even the conditions of cadaver treatment all affected the guiding value of the clinic.
如果能通过更多研究，尤其是更多的尸检，结合临床上观察可以作更细致的总结。
More research, especially more autopsies, combined with clinical observations, could lead to a more detailed summary.
新京报：现在关于气管插管救治的争议很多，很多医生反映，插管的死亡率高居不下。
The Beijing News: There is a lot of controversy about the treatment of trachea intubation. Many doctors report that the mortality rate of intubation is high.
房明浩：我们最早的时候，插一个死一个，很绝望。
Fang Minghao: When we first, insert a dead one, very desperate.
后来插管的时间窗越来越往前提，才有活的。
Later, the time window of intubation more and more to the premise, only live.
插管的死亡率大，是因为插晚了，用心肺复苏了才插管肯定会死。
Intubation mortality is high, because it is late, resuscitation with cardiopulmonary resuscitation is sure to die.
越早插效果越好。
The sooner you interrupt, the better.
在机体缺氧比较严重的转折点上，就要考虑使用插管。
Intubation should be considered at turning points where the body lacks oxygen.
我们2月上旬有许多成功拔管的病人，跟插管时间有极大的关系。
We had a lot of successful extubation patients in the first half of February, and that had a lot to do with intubation time.
用插管的话，肯定是选那些无创状态下继续恶化的病人。
With an intubation, you must be choosing patients who continue to deteriorate in a noninvasive state.
在这些病人中，如果不用插管，全都死了。
Of these patients, all died if they had not been intubated.
用插管的话，有的人会活下来。
With a cannula, some people will survive.
插管的作用，在这里相当于ECMO。
The role of the intubation here is equivalent to ECMO.
新京报：插管治疗，病人气道直接开放，有医生指出，这项操作的感染风险很高。
The Beijing News: Intubation treatment, patients with direct airway opening, a doctor pointed out that this operation has a high risk of infection.
房明浩：据我所知，在这次疫情期间没发生过这种事情。
Mr. Fang: As far as I know, nothing like this happened during this outbreak.
新冠肺炎病人的肺部都很干，喷溅、气溶胶风险低一些。
Patients with new crown pneumonia have very dry lungs, spray, aerosol risk is lower.
而且现在有了三级防护的概念，正压头套，可视插管设备都很充足，目前各个地方的麻醉科、插管小分队都没有职业暴露发生。
And now there is the concept of three levels of protection, positive pressure head cover, visual intubation equipment are very adequate, the current local anesthesiology, intubation teams have no occupational exposure.
新京报：你怎么看待这些关于救治手段的争议？房明浩：现在的救治过程好像在走钢丝，往哪个方向多一点都不合适。
The Beijing News: What do you think of these disputes about treatment? Fang Minghao: The treatment process seems to be walking a tightrope, which direction is a little bit inappropriate.
实际上，我对抗病毒、血浆治疗都持谨慎态度。
In fact, I am cautious about antiviral, plasma treatment.
这些病人折腾不起，做什么事情都要考虑到反面。
These patients can't bear to do anything without thinking the opposite.
新京报：为什么有些患者出院后出现复阳？房明浩：我个人认为，复阳和复发是不一样的。
Beijing News: Why do some patients have Fuyang after discharge from hospital? Fang Minghao: Personally, I think Fuyang and relapse are different.
核酸检测的是病毒的RNA特征，如果病毒被破坏成好几段已经死掉了，它的尸体是几段核酸序列，这些特征还在，会让核酸呈现阳性，但并不代表病毒是完整的或具有侵袭能力的。
Nucleic acid tests the RNA signature of the virus, and if the virus is broken down into sections that have died, its body is a sequence of nucleic acids that remains, makes the nucleic acid positive, but does not indicate that the virus is complete or aggressive.
所谓阳性能不能证明是存活着的病毒，这是值得探讨的问题。
Whether the so-called positive can prove to be a surviving virus is worth exploring.
我们的临床经验是匮乏的——核酸检测是绝对准吗？有没有假阴性或者假阳性？肠道排出来的是完整的病毒还是破损的病毒？这些都有待于时间去检验。
Our clinical experience is lacking - is nucleic acid testing absolutely correct? Are there false-negative or false-positive? Is the gut a complete virus or a broken virus? It's going to take time to test.
房明浩拍摄的金银潭医院南七楼ICU的同事们。
Colleagues of ICU, 7th floor, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, taken by Mr Fong.
疫情尾期：金银潭的ICU已经有空床位了新京报：这段时间你的工作状态是怎么样的？收治压力减轻了吗？房明浩：我是3月1日轮休的。
Late Epidemic: The ICU in the Gold and Silver Pool has been vacant for the Beijing News: How well have you been working these days? Has the treatment stress eased?
之前是随叫随到，时间没有固定，手机不关机。
Before is on call, the time is not fixed, the mobile phone does not turn off.
我们要随时对病人作调整，不断地商议、权衡。
We have to adjust the patient at any time, constantly deliberating, weighing.
以前压力大的时候，一晚上收了5个病人，死了3个。
I used to have five patients and three dead in one night when I was stressed out.
方舱医院开始收治病人后，我们的压力就减轻了。
Our stress eased when the cabin hospital began to treat patients.
现在ICU居然也有空床了。
Now the ICU has an empty bed.
另外，关于某些救治手段，医护人员也在慢慢形成一些共识，大家对情况都更熟悉了。
In addition, regarding certain treatment means, the medical personnel are also slowly forming some consensus, everyone is more familiar with the situation.
新京报：在ICU要面对重症患者甚至死亡，医护的心理状态会受影响吗？房明浩：我做了20多年重症医学，已经过了那个情绪波动的年纪。
The Beijing News: Will the psychological state of care be affected when the ICU is faced with severe illness or even death? Fang Minghao: I have been in intensive care for more than 20 years and have passed that emotional age.
带着惋惜、恐慌、担心的情绪，对抢救病人，对自己的心理状态都是不利的。
With regret, panic, fear of the mood, the rescue of patients, on their own psychological state is not conducive.
在疫情中后期的2月份，我们曾经做过一次心理调查。
In the middle and late February of the outbreak, we had a psychological survey.
结果发现，搞重症和传染病的医护，也是最核心的这套班子，虽然长期加班在一线，但他们的心理状态好于平均水平。
It turns out that medical care for serious and infectious diseases is also at the heart of the team, and although they work long hours on the front lines, their psychological state is better than average.
信心以及对执业环境的熟悉程度，对心理状态影响很大。
Confidence and familiarity with the practice environment have a strong impact on psychological well-being.
新京报：疫情后期，你觉得有什么需要关注的问题吗？房明浩：武汉的医院，恐怕今后很长一段时间，在接诊患者的时候，都要做新冠病毒的筛查，又要兼顾治疗原发病，急诊科的压力，恐怕比疫情初期还要重。
At Wuhan hospital, I am afraid that for a long time to come, patients will have to be screened for the new crown virus, and the pressure of the emergency department will be worse than at the beginning of the outbreak.
还有一个问题很重要，我要呼吁一下。
One more question is important, and I would like to appeal.
眼下整个医疗系统都在围绕疫情转，那些慢性疾病、肿瘤、突发车祸等病人怎么办呢？怎么尽快恢复正常医疗秩序，这也是全国面临的问题。
The entire healthcare system is now revolved around the epidemic. What about patients suffering from chronic diseases, tumours and sudden car accidents? How to restore normal medical order as soon as possible is also a national problem.
医院是为所有人的健康保驾护航的，长远看，更大的需求来自普通老百姓的就医需求，不能等着出现问题再补救。
Hospitals are for the health of all people, and in the long run, the greater need comes from the needs of ordinary people to seek medical care and cannot wait for problems to be remedied.
洋葱话题▼你想对ICU一线的医生说什么？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转武汉疫情初期，网络直报系统为何失灵？武汉“护肾小队”：向死而生既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why is the network direct reporting system failing in the early days of Wuhan We're working, we're working, so why isn't the network direct reporting system working in Wuhan?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”。
Gold and Silver Pool Hospital ICU medical team leader Fang Minghao: Severe treatment is like "walking steel wire."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "\x26quot;至今我们对这个疾病的认识也不多。
Var msg _ desc = & quot;\ x 26quot; We don't know much about the disease so far.
\x26quot;";。
\ x 26quot; & quot;;
title: '疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转',。
Express and delivery in the epidemic: We are at work at Running & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉疫情初期，网络直报系统为何失灵？',。
At the beginning of Wuhan's epidemic, why did its network reporting system malfunction? & apos;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉“护肾小队”：向死而生',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
