国家监委调查组公布李文亮调查情况，北京机场国际航班将分流石家庄、天津等多地，以及其他 14 条新闻。
NNSC investigation team announced Li Wenliang investigation, Beijing airport international flights will shunt Shijiazhuang, Tianjin and other places, as well as 14 other news.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
所有的鱼现在同步在 allthefishnews.wordpress.com 更新并可通过邮件订阅。
All fish are now synchronized at allthefishnews. wordpress.com and can be subscribed to by mail.
你可以复制上方链接浏览器打开获取订阅链接。
You can copy the above link browser to open for a subscription link.
根据丁香医生，截至 3 月 19 日 22:19 时，全国现存确诊病例 7452 例，累计确诊病例 81263 例，其中包括境外输入病例 190 例。
As of 22: 19 on March 19, there were 7,452 confirmed cases and a cumulative total of 81,263 cases, including 190 imported cases from abroad, according to Dr. Lilac.
现存重症病例 2314 例，死亡病例 3250 例，累计治愈病例 70561 例。
There were 2314 serious cases, 3250 deaths, and 70,561 cases were cured.
除中国以外，全球现存确诊病例为 121954 例，累计确诊病例 143156 例，死亡 5989 例，累计治愈 15213。
In addition to China, the number of confirmed cases worldwide is 121954, with a cumulative total of 143,156 confirmed cases and 5,989 deaths, with a cumulative total of 15,213 cured.
除中国外，目前全球至少有 166 个国家和地区已呈报确诊病例。
In addition to China, at least 166 countries and territories have reported confirmed cases.
目前已有 40 多个国家进入紧急状态。
More than 40 countries are currently in a state of emergency.
疫情发展意大利单日死亡 475 例，封国时间延长。
Epidemic development in Italy 475 deaths a day, the closure time extended.
截至罗马时间 3 月 18 日 18 时，意大利较前一个 24 小时新增确诊 4207 例，新增死亡 475 例，是全球最高的单日死亡人数。
By 1800 hours Rome time on March 18, Italy had confirmed 4,207 new cases and 475 new deaths in the previous 24 hours, the highest single-day death toll in the world.
根据约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的统计，意大利感染病死率高达 8.3%，且持续上升，超过伊朗 6.5%、西班牙 4.3%、中国 4.0%。
According to Johns Hopkins University, the death rate from infection in Italy is 8.3 per cent and continues to rise, exceeding 6.5 per cent in Iran, 4.3 per cent in Spain and 4.0 per cent in China.
死亡病例仍集中在高龄患者，死亡病例的年龄中位数是 63 岁，平均 79.5 岁。
Deaths continue to be concentrated in older age groups, with a median age of 63 years, or an average of 79.5 years.
意大利自 3 月 10 日起执行全国封锁，原定 3 月 25 日 解除，总理孔特于 19 日称，介于当前形势，封锁措施将继续延长。
On 19 March, Prime Minister Konte stated that the embargo, which had been in force throughout Italy since 10 March, would continue to be extended in the light of the current situation.
除意大利外，捷克、法国、西班牙和比利时也都封锁了全境。
In addition to Italy, the Czech Republic, France, Spain and Belgium have all closed their territories.
北京输入性病例占全国 34%，近八成为中转。
Beijing imported 34% of sexual cases, nearly eight has become a transit.
截至 3 月 18 日 24 时，北京市累计报告境外输入确诊病例 64 例，入境人员以欧美国家为主， 78% 的病例是入境中转旅客，42% 为留学生。
As of 2400 hours on March 18, a total of 64 confirmed cases had been reported from outside Beijing, mainly from countries in Europe and the United States, with 78 per cent of cases being passengers in transit and 42 per cent being foreign students.
据疾病中心统计，首都机场日均入境约 6000 到 8000 人。
According to the Centers for Disease Control, the average daily entry into the capital airport is 6,000 to 8,000 people.
“自 2 月 29 日出现输入性病例起，由机场海关检疫转医疗机构筛查的人员累计 2417 人，日均127人，近一周来日均已达 288 人，18 日高达 479 人。
"Since the introduction of imported cases on February 29, a total of 2,417 people have been screened by the airport's Customs and Quarantine Referral Medical Service, with an average of 127 a day, reaching an average of 288 in the past week and 479 on 18 days.
”中国新冠肺炎首次出现本土单日无新增。
For the first time, there were no new cases of mainland pneumonia.
3 月 18 日，中国新冠肺炎本土新增确诊病例首次零增长。
On March 18, for the first time, there was zero growth in the number of newly confirmed cases in China.
据中国卫健委，中国大陆周三报告的 34 例新增病例全部为境外输入病例。
All of the 34 new cases reported by the Chinese mainland on Wednesday were imported from overseas, according to the country's health committee.
但是中国还没有脱离危险。
But China is not out of danger.
专家表示，至少要连续 14 天没有新的感染病例，疫情才算得上真正结束。
Experts say it will take at least 14 consecutive days for there to be no new infections before the outbreak is truly over.
一旦全国各地的日常生活重新开始，旅行限制解除，这种病毒是否会再次出现还有待观察。
It remains to be seen whether the virus will reappear once daily life resumes throughout the country and travel restrictions are lifted.
美国新冠确诊数近万，特朗普签署第二个新冠疫情救助方案。
With tens of thousands of new cases diagnosed in the US, Trump has signed on to a second crowning relief package.
特朗普签署“一揽子救助计划”。
Trump signs the "bailout package."
该计划主要包括免费新冠检测、提高带薪休假福利、增加对老人与儿童的食品补助等措施。
The plan includes measures such as free crown testing, increased paid leave benefits and increased food subsidies for the elderly and children.
此外，国会正在起草第三个针对新冠疫情的约 1 万亿刺激经济计划，包括直接给受影响的美国人发放现金总计 5000 亿美元，为受影响的航空、酒店等行业以及小企业提供贷款等。
In addition, Congress is drafting a third $1 trillion stimulus plan for the new crown, including direct cash transfers to affected Americans totalling $500 billion, loans to affected industries such as aviation, hotels and small businesses.
未来研判屠呦呦：谨防将新冠误诊为疟疾，非洲应未雨绸缪。
Caution about misdiagnosing the new crown as malaria, Africa should plan ahead, said a future judge.
来自中国、德国、英国等地的 14 位专家 3 月 16 日在医学期刊《柳叶刀》发表了名为《疟疾爆发地区在新冠大流行期间做好准备至关重要》的评论文章。
Fourteen experts from China, Germany and the United Kingdom published a commentary March 16 in the medical journal Lancet entitled "It's important to prepare malaria-endemic areas for a new pandemic."
文章认为，疟疾流行地区不仅需要采取针对新冠病毒的防控措施，还需要预防新冠疫情爆发对疟疾控制工作可能造成的破坏。
The article argues that malaria endemic areas not only need to take measures to control the new crown virus, but also to prevent the outbreak of the new crown of disease to malaria control.
通讯作者为中国中医科学院首席科学家屠呦呦。
Communications writer Yo Tu, Chief Scientist of the Chinese Academy of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
本文认为 2014-2016 年西非埃博拉病毒疫情的经验教训值得借鉴。
The paper concludes that the lessons learned from the 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa are instructive.
城市防控北京疾控建议留学生无急事不回国。
CDC advises foreign students not to return home.
3 月 18 日下午，「北京市新冠肺炎疫情防控工作」发布会，疾病预防控制中心副主任庞星火建议，“留学生无十分必须应暂停回国”，确有回国需求尽量选择直飞航线。
On the afternoon of March 18, Pong Xingluo, deputy director of the Beijing Municipal Center for Disease Control and Prevention, suggested that "foreign students should not have to suspend their return to China.
微博@人民日报 下的最高热度评论来自一位留学生，提到知道回国“给祖国添麻烦了”，“好不容易等到停课才回国”，以及“我们在国内疫情最严重时也尽过力”。
The top-notch review by Weibo @ People's Daily came from an international student who said he knew returning home was "troublesome for the country," that "we had to wait until we were out of school" and that "we did our part at the height of the epidemic."
首都机场入境航班分流至天津、石家庄、太原和呼和浩特的机场。
Inbound flights from the Capital Airport are diverted to airports in Tianjin, Shijiazhuang, Taiyuan and Hohhot.
据财新网等媒体报道，从 3 月 18 日晚间起，原定首都机场入境航班分流至天津、石家庄、太原和呼和浩特的机场，旅客经过检测之后，健康者再转飞到北京，有风险者在当地治疗。
Since the evening of March 18, inbound flights from the capital airport have been diverted to airports in Tianjin, Shijiazhuang, Taiyuan and Hohhot, according to media reports, including Caixin.
国外航空公司暂不执行。
Foreign airlines will not be implemented.
3 月 19 日，民航总局公布了第一批调整方案：3 月 20 日莫斯科至北京 CA910 航班，3 月 22 日巴黎至北京 CA934 航班第一入境点为天津；3 月 20 至 22 日东京至北京 CA926 航班第一入境点为呼和浩特；3 月 21 至 22 日多伦多至北京 HU7976 航班第一入境点为太原（以上日期为北京时间）。
On 19 March, the General Administration of Civil Aviation announced the first adjustment programmes: from Moscow to Beijing, flight CA910, on 20 March; Tianjin, flight CA934, from Paris to Beijing, on 22 March; Hohhot, the first point of entry on flight CA926 from Tokyo to Beijing, from 20 to 22 March; and Taiyuan, the first point of entry on flight HU7976 from Toronto to Beijing, from 21 to 22 March.
所有境外进京人员须集中观察14天，不再受理居家隔离申请。
All foreign visitors to Beijing must focus on observation for 14 days, no longer accept applications for home isolation.
3 月 18 日，北京发布《关于进一步严格境外进京人员管控措施的通告》。
On March 18, Beijing issued the "Notice on Further Strict Measures for the Control of Overseas Entry into Beijing."
通告要求，从即日起，所有境外进京人员，均应转送至集中观察点进行14天医学观察，费用自理。
The circular requires that, from now on, all overseas visitors be transferred to a centralized observation point for 14 days of medical observation at their own cost.
对 70 周岁及以上的老年人、14 周岁及以下的未成年人、孕产妇、患有基础性疾病等原因不适宜集中观察的，经严格评估后，可以进行居家观察。
For those aged 70 years or over, minors aged 14 years or under, pregnant women, women with basic diseases, etc., who are not suitable for centralized observation, home observation may be conducted after a rigorous evaluation.
3 月 19 日凌晨，北京新冠肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室发布通告，明确不再受理有单独住所且住所内没有其他同住人员的居家观察申请。
In the early morning hours of March 19, the Office of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of New Crown Pneumonia in Beijing issued a circular explicitly dismissing applications for home observation from people with separate residences and no other residents.
武汉允许无疫情小区居民分批活动。
Wuhan allows residents of non-epidemic areas to move in batches.
武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部社区疫情防控组今天（19 日）发布调整管控措施的意见：被认定为无疫情小区的，允许居民分批、分时段、分楼栋，在小区内进行非聚集性的个人活动；被认定为无疫情小区且连续 7 天以上的，允许居民在小区内进行非聚集性的个人自由活动。
The Community Epidemic Prevention and Control Group of the Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Command issued an opinion today (May 19) on adjusting control measures: those designated as disease-free neighborhoods are allowed to carry out non-clustered personal activities in small areas, and those designated as disease-free zones for more than seven consecutive days are allowed to conduct non-clustered personal activities in small areas.
无疫情的村（队）可有序恢复村民生活秩序，开展农业生产。
Villages (teams) free of epidemic diseases may restore order and carry out agricultural production in an orderly manner.
湖北人员返岗只需健康码。
Hubei personnel back to work only need health code.
3 月 18 日下午的湖北省新闻发布会上，湖北省副省长曹广晶介绍湖北复工复产进展情况时表示，要加大对企业的帮扶力度，及时协调解决企业复工复产当中的突出问题。
At a press conference in Hubei province on the afternoon of March 18, Cao Guangjing, vice-governor of Hubei province, introduced the progress of resuming production in Hubei province.
他说：“员工返岗方面，大家反映存在一定的困难，主要问题是省内人员流动需要提交材料繁多、申报难。
"There are some difficulties in returning employees to their posts," he said. "The main problem is the large number of submissions and the difficulty of filing a declaration.
”曹广晶介绍，湖北省内已经明确人员流动除了健康码之外不得再附加其他的条件，“就凭健康码全省流动，不能再附加任何其他条件。
Cao Guangjing said the province had made it clear that the movement of people should not be subject to conditions other than health codes.
”但是，湖北省内人员离开湖北需要办理外省接收的证明材料。
"However, people in Hubei province need to obtain testimonial material for receiving in other provinces before leaving the province.
“恳请兄弟省市对于湖北省中低风险市州外出务工的人员给予关照和支持，也希望兄弟省市对湖北外出打工的中低风险地区、持有健康码的人员不要再附加其他的条件。
"Brother provinces and municipalities are kindly requested to give care and support to the migrant workers from middle and low-risk cities and counties in Hubei Province.
”曹广晶说。
"said Cao Guangjing.
医疗方案世卫组织启动全球性新冠病毒临床试验。
Medical Program WHO has launched a global clinical trial for the new crown virus.
19 日，世卫组织宣布将启动全球性 COVID-19 大型临床试验，命名为“团结”临床试验（SOLIDARITY trial）。
On February 19, WHO announced that it would launch a large-scale global clinical trial of COVID-19, to be called the "SOLIDARITY trial."
在每一个对照组和 4 个治疗组中，对照组的患者接受所在国家的标准护理，其它 4 个治疗组在标准护理之外，使用瑞德西韦、洛匹那韦/利托那韦、洛匹那韦/利托那韦+干扰素β（IFN-β）或氯喹。
In each of the control and four treatment groups, the control group received standard care in the host country, while the other four groups used Rhetsevir, Lopinavir / Ritonavir, Lopinavir / Litonavir + Interferon (IFN-I) or chloroquine, in addition to standard care.
阿根廷、巴林、加拿大、法国、伊朗、挪威、南非、西班牙、瑞士和泰国确认加入。
Argentina, Bahrain, Canada, France, Iran, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland and Thailand confirmed accession.
研究发现抗艾药治新冠没有显著效果。
The results showed that there was no significant effect.
3 月 19 日，中日友好医院副院长曹彬团队开展的洛匹那韦/利托那韦临床试验披露研究结果：在重症新冠肺炎成人住院患者中，与常规治疗相比，洛匹那韦/利托那韦不能显著改善患者临床状况，不能显著降低死亡率，也未减少患者咽部病毒载量，同时相对更可能发生胃肠道不良反应。
On March 19, the clinical trial findings of Lopinavir / Ritonavir, conducted by the Vice-President of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, Cao Bin's team, revealed that in adult patients with severe coronary pneumonia, Lopinavir / Ritonavir did not significantly improve the patient's clinical condition, significantly reduce mortality rates or reduce viral load in patients with severe coronary pneumonia, and were relatively more likely to have adverse gastrointestinal reactions.
该研究在线发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》上，曹彬为此项临床试验牵头人，武汉市金银潭医院合作开展洛匹那韦/利托那韦临床试验。
The study was published online in the New England Journal of Medicine, where Cao Bin conducted clinical trials of Lopinavir / Ritonavir in collaboration with the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan.
洛匹那韦/利托那韦抗新冠病毒的药效此前已受到多名专家否定。
The efficacy of Lopinavir / Ritonavir against the new crown virus has been previously denied by several experts.
外围影响外交部要求《纽约时报》《华尔街日报》《华盛顿邮报》外籍记者离开中国。
The Foreign Ministry has asked foreign journalists from The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal of The New York Times, to leave China.
3 月 18 日，外交部回应了“2020 年 2 月将 5 家中国媒体驻美机构列为外国使团”等事件，宣布 3 条要求：“美国之音”、《纽约时报》、《华尔街日报》、《华盛顿邮报》、《时代周刊》5 家媒体驻华分社向中方提供所有工作人员的财务信息；《纽约时报》、《华尔街日报》、《华盛顿邮报》3 家媒体的美籍记者 4 天内向外交部新闻司申报名单，10 天内交还记者证，且不得在中国（包括港、澳）从事记者工作；将对美国记者在签证、行政审查、采访等方面采取限制措施。
On March 18, the Foreign Ministry responded to such incidents as "listing five Chinese media organizations in the United States as foreign missions in February 2020," announcing three requirements: "Voice of America," "The New York Times," "The Wall Street Journal," "Washington Post" and "Time Post.
新冠疫情已致 8.5 亿学生停课，占全球学生总数的一半。
The new crown has shut down 850 million students, or half of the world's student population.
据联合国教科文组织消息，截至 3 月 17 日，全球已有逾 8.5 亿儿童和青少年因新冠肺炎疫情而停课，人数约为全球总学生数的一半。
As of March 17, more than 850 million children and adolescents worldwide, about half the world's total, had been suspended due to the outbreak of pneumonia, according to UNESCO.
据报道，全球已有 102 个国家和地区全面停课，另有 11 个国家和地区局部停课。
It has been reported that 102 countries and regions have suspended classes altogether and another 11 countries and regions have partially suspended classes.
预计这一数字还将继续增长。
This number is expected to continue to grow.
甘肃市场监管局要求干部带头下馆子，每周消费不低于 200 元。
The Gansu Market Supervisory Authority requires cadres to take the lead in eating out for not less than 200 yuan a week.
3 月 19 日，甘肃省市场监管局发出关于干部职工带头消费支持餐饮业共度难关的倡议书：1、党员领导干部要带头“下馆子”，以实际行动体现社会责任。
On March 19, the Gansu Provincial Market Supervisory Authority issued a proposal that cadres and staff should take the lead in spending to support the catering industry.
每周消费不低于200元。
No less than 200 yuan per week.
2、鼓励干部职工及亲属带头“吃喝”，引导和带动身边群众尽快恢复消费信心。
To encourage cadres, staff and relatives to take the lead in "eating and drinking," guiding and motivating people around them to restore consumer confidence as soon as possible.
3、带头使用“公筷公勺”，推行文明餐桌。
3. Take the lead in using chopsticks and spoons to promote a civilized table.
4、严格廉洁规定，消费个人付费。
Strict rules of probity and personal payment by consumers.
舆论关注国家监委调查组公布李文亮调查情况。
Public opinion is concerned about NNSC investigation team released Li Wenliang investigation.
3 月 19 日晚 7 点，「央视新闻」发布国家监委调查组的李文亮调查情况。
March 19 evening at 7 p.m., "CCTV News" released the investigation report of NNSC investigation team Li Wenliang.
内部包括李文亮发微信、受训诫、生病、抢救和善后等事宜以及答记者问。
The inner part includes such matters as Li Wenliang's letter, reprimand, illness, rescue and aftercare, and answering questions.
最后给出的总结性建议是“由于中南路派出所出具训诫书不当，执法程序不规范，调查组已建议湖北省武汉市监察机关对此事进行监督纠正，督促公安机关撤销训诫书并追究有关人员责任，及时向社会公布处理结果。
In the end, the investigation group recommended that the Wuhan Municipal Supervision Bureau in Hubei Province should supervise and correct the matter, urge the public security organs to revoke the disciplinary precepts and investigate the responsibility of the personnel concerned, and make the results known to the public in a timely manner.
”文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e_ncOV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg/edit《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报》，可复制链接后科学上网打开。
All news and sources can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e _ ncoV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg / edit Daily Outbreak of New Coronavirus Pneumonia.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
国家监委调查组公布李文亮调查情况，北京机场国际航班将分流石家庄、天津等多地，以及其他 14 条新闻。
NNSC investigation team announced Li Wenliang investigation, Beijing airport international flights will shunt Shijiazhuang, Tianjin and other places, as well as 14 other news.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "国家监委调查组公布李文亮调查情况，北京机场国际航班将分流石家庄、天津等多地，以及其他 14 条新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; NNSC's investigation disclosed that Li Wenliang's investigation was conducted, and that Beijing airport's international flights will divert Shijiazhuang, Tianjin and other places, as well as 14 other news and quotations.
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We've selected RPG's important news for you;;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
