他们也在等待病床。
They are also waiting for their beds.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
3月15日，在湖北省中医院花园山院区，患者有序排队就诊。
On March 15, patients queued up in an orderly fashion at the Garden Hill Hospital of Hubei Province.
随着花园山院区新冠病人清零，经过严格的消杀处理后，陆续恢复普通门诊。
As the garden hill courtyard area new crown patient is cleared, after the strict elimination treatment, successively restores the general outpatient clinic.
新华社记者 沈伯韩 摄本文约2252字预计阅读时6分钟作者 |中青报·中青网记者 王景烁编辑 | 陈卓疫情正在退潮，另一些困难却越来越明显地浮现出来——至少陈星旭感觉是这样的。
Xinhua News Agency reporter Shen Bo-han expects to read about 2252 words Six minutes at the time of reading. While Wang Jingshu, a reporter with the China Youth Daily, is at the ebb and flow of Chen's epidemic, other difficulties are becoming more and more apparent - at least according to Chen.
他是武汉520志愿者团队的发起人。
He is the founder of Wuhan 520 volunteer team.
从疫情暴发的初期，这个团队就致力于帮助新冠肺炎患者尽快入院并提供心理援助。
From the early stages of the outbreak, the team worked to help patients with Newcomial Pneumonia get hospitalized and provide psychological assistance as soon as possible.
为了搜集核实源源不断的求助信息，团队核心的志愿者有800多个。
There are more than 800 volunteers at the core of the team to gather and verify the flow of help messages.
那时，这样的求助“解决了第一个，就来了十个二十个。
At that moment, there were ten or twenty such appeals, having resolved the first.
解决了十个二十个，又来了一百个两百个。
Ten and twenty were settled, and then a hundred and two hundred.
”如今，这样的求助信息越来越少。
Today, there is less information about such help.
3月16日0-24时，湖北省新增新冠肺炎确诊病例只有武汉市1例，其他16个市州均为0例；截至3月14日16时，武汉无疫情小区累计数量4871个，占比68.6%。
On March 16, 0-24, only one case of new crown pneumonia was diagnosed in Wuhan city and none in 16 other cities and counties in Hubei Province. As of 16 March, the cumulative number of cases in these areas was 4,871, accounting for 68.6 percent.
与此同时，在微博上新冠肺炎救治相关的话题下，一些非新冠肺炎危重症患者的求助信息开始连片涌来。
At the same time, under the topics related to the treatment of new crown pneumonia on Weibo, some patients with severe non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia began to flood with help messages.
目前，在新浪微博上，一个名为#非肺炎患者求助#的话题下，求助信息几乎每日都在更新，截至记者发稿时，阅读量已有1.1亿；另一个#武汉非肺炎危重病人求助#的话题，阅读量也达4688.7万。
Currently, on Sina Weibo, a topic called # Non-pneumonia patients for help #, help messages are updated almost daily, with 110 million readings by the time the story was posted; another topic, help from critically ill non-pneumonia patients in Wuhan, reached 46.887 million.
疫情发生初期，陈星旭就曾见过非新冠肺炎患者的无奈——他曾帮助过一个被诊断为皮罗综合征的婴儿晏辰刚。
In the early days of the outbreak, Chen Xingxu saw the helplessness of a non-Newly crowned Pneumonia patient who had helped an infant diagnosed with Piro's syndrome, Anchor Gang.
晏辰刚在武汉“封城”前一天出生，出生后不久就被诊断患有这种罕见的先天性疾病。
Anchor was born the day before the city's closure in Wuhan and was diagnosed with this rare congenital disease shortly after birth.
这种罕见的疾病的特征是小颌畸形、舌后坠、腭裂及吸气性呼吸道阻塞。
This rare disease is characterized by small jaw deformities, posterior tongue pendants, cleft palate and inhaled respiratory obstruction.
晏辰刚的气管只有2.5毫米，几乎是正常宝宝的一半。
Anchor's trachea is only 2.5 mm, almost half that of a normal baby.
他已经借助呼吸机维持生命好几天了，可呼吸和进食还有困难。
He had been living on a ventilator for several days and had difficulty breathing and eating.
当时，晏义威唯一联系到的能做手术的医院在南京。
At the time, Anor was the only hospital in Nanjing that could be contacted for surgery.
但是离汉的车辆要通行证，接收的医院还要向当地防疫指挥部报批。
However, vehicles leaving Han to pass, the receiving hospital to the local anti-epidemic command for approval.
而且，所有随行人员都要有结果显示阴性的核酸检测报告。
Also, all entourage should have a negative nucleic acid test report.
晏义威给不出这些证明，当时，不发烧就没有机会获取核酸检测的名额。
Anor could not give these certificates, then, no fever would not be able to access the number of nucleic acid testing.
后来，陈星旭联合华中科技大学校友会成员，湖北、安徽和江苏的政府部门及媒体，将晏辰刚送上前往南京的车。
Chen Xingxu later joined forces with alumni associations of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, government departments and media from Hubei, Anhui and Jiangsu provinces, and sent Yan to Nanjing.
3月4日，这名患儿终于做上了手术。
On March 4, the child was finally operated on.
这还只是陈星旭参与帮助的其中一个患者。
This is just one of the patients Chen Xingxu helped.
一位39岁的新冠肺炎患者，本身患有尿毒症。
A 39-year-old man with Newly Coronary Pneumonia has uremia of his own.
家属发来求助时，他已经在家里待了20多天了，透析也被迫中断了20多天，人已经昏迷，动脉血的血氧饱和度只有50%左右，“基本处于半窒息的状态”。
By the time his family sent him for help, he had been at home for more than 20 days, dialysis had been interrupted for more than 20 days, people were unconscious, arterial blood oxygen saturation was only about 50 per cent, and "basically semi-asphyxiation."
在帮助患者联系医院的过程中，陈星旭收到了患者离世的消息。
Chen received word of the patient's death while trying to contact the hospital.
陈星旭还收到过一个求助，15岁的男孩疑似白血病，“只要不输血人就是晕的”。
Chen also received a request for help from a 15-year-old boy suspected of leukaemia, "as long as no blood transfusion is dizzy."
但是他就诊的医院成为收治新冠肺炎患者定点医院，他只能出院。
But the hospital where he was admitted to New Crown Pneumonia ordered him out of the hospital.
医院的说法是：“我们也没办法，先回家养着，等疫情缓解了再想办法。
The hospital said: "We also have no choice but to go home and keep it until the outbreak eases.
”第二天，陈星旭找来志愿者的车，保证男孩先回了家。
"The next day Chen Xingxu got the volunteer's car to make sure the boy returned home first.
之后，再打电话给医院，对方急了，“如果不出院，新冠肺炎患者进来，又有新的感染怎么办？”陈星旭也蒙了，他明白这个道理，却使不上力。
After that, he called the hospital again, and the other party was anxious, "What if I don't get out of the hospital and the new infections come in?" Chen Xingxu was blindfolded, but he couldn't make the effort.
这个志愿者团队从疫情暴发起就开始帮助新冠肺炎患者找床位，运转得颇为成熟，但是在那个时候，陈星旭觉得“束手无策”。
Chen felt "helpless" at a time when the volunteer team had been trying to help patients with pneumonia find beds since the outbreak began.
武汉大学中南医院急救中心副主任夏剑曾对媒体估算，正常情况下，他所在的医院一年接待急诊患者12万人，其中有10%-20%是需要抢救的患者。
Xia Jian, deputy director of the emergency center at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told reporters that his hospital normally receives 120,000 patients a year in emergency situations, 10 to 20 percent of whom are patients in need of rescue.
但疫情期间的抢救量大概是正常状态的1/3，其中还包括新冠肺炎引起的急救。
But the amount saved during the outbreak was about one-third of normal, including first aid for pneumonia.
2月16日，武汉市卫健委陆续公布了非新冠肺炎患者救治医院名单。
Feb. 16, Wuhan City health committee released the list of non-nocturnal pneumonia treatment hospitals.
之后，2月21日，武汉市防疫指挥部增设“非新冠肺炎医疗救治组”。
Subsequently, February 21, Wuhan city epidemic prevention command added "non-new crown pneumonia medical treatment group."
相关的医护力量和医疗资源统筹还在不断加强，3月16日起，武汉市卫健委每日公布非新冠定点医院医疗资源恢复进度情况，动态展示非新冠定点医院名单、各医院门、急诊和住院科室开设情况。
Since March 16, the Wuhan Health Commission has announced the progress of the rehabilitation of medical resources in non-crown designated hospitals, and has been actively displaying the list of non-crown designated hospitals, hospitals, emergency departments and inpatient departments.
武汉市卫健委陆续公布了非新冠肺炎患者救治医院名单之后，陈星旭观察到一丝转机——武汉的一些定点医院，将新冠肺炎的病人送往分院，不少援鄂医疗队开始待命，一直紧缺的医疗资源得到了一定程度的缓解。
After Wuhan's health committee released a list of hospitals for treating patients with non-Newly Crowded Pneumonia, Chen Xingxu observed a glimmer of improvement, with hospitals in Wuhan sending patients with pneumonia to hospitals and many medical teams waiting for medical treatment to ease the shortage of medical resources.
但是，当疫情还未彻底退却时，其他危重症患者面临的情况依旧复杂。
But, while the epidemic has not receded completely, the situation for other critically ill patients remains complex.
一位患者曾找到陈星旭，说自己因肺癌前往医院，可医生一看片子就表示，请先去做核酸检测，或去定点医院，“我们这没法收”。
One patient approached Chen Xingxu and said he had gone to the hospital for lung cancer, but the doctor saw the film and said, 'Please go for a nucleic acid test first, or go to a hospital.
若没做核酸检测，并非新冠肺炎，医院也不能收治。
If you don't have a nucleic acid test, it's not Newcastle Pneumonia, and hospitals can't take care of it.
但问题是，免费的核酸检测也有程序，需有发烧症状，被认定疑似，走社区上报等流程；目前，付费的检测渠道开放，但等待的时间相对较长。
The problem, however, is that there are procedures for free nucleic acid testing, requiring fever symptoms, being identified as suspect and following a process such as community reporting; at present, paid testing channels are open, but waiting times are relatively long.
与那位脑溢血的病人一样，陈星旭了解到，不少病人虽被医院收治，但由于当下的医疗资源难以满足需要，他们都卡在了转院的环节。
Like the patient with a brain haemorrhage, Chen Xingxu learned that many patients are hospitalized, but they are stuck in hospital because the current medical resources are inadequate.
涉及异地转院，更是难上加难。
This is particularly difficult when it comes to relocation.
迫于病情，湖北省内的一些危重症患者为寻求更好的治疗条件，要集中到省会武汉。
Due to the illness, some critically ill patients in Hubei Province to seek better treatment conditions, to concentrate on the provincial capital Wuhan.
“武汉变成他们唯一救助的渠道了。
Wuhan became the only channel through which they could save themselves.
”可这需要武汉的医院接收，还需要办理相关的通行证。
"Wuhan hospitals can be required to accept this, but also need to go through the relevant pass.
随着封城时间越来越长，这些非新冠肺炎患者面临的问题越来越多。
As the closure of the city grew longer, the problems faced by these non-crown pneumonia patients increased.
还有多少非新冠肺炎危重患者在等待救治，陈星旭说不出答案。
Chen is unable to say how many other patients are still waiting for treatment.
他记得，一位湖北天门的患者因发烧进了医院，之后多次核酸检测呈阴性，医院要求转到武汉的相关医院做白血病救治，先是各大医院没有床位，联系好医院后，又卡在了通行证上。
He remembers that a patient from Tianmen, Hubei Province, who was admitted to hospital with a fever and tested negative for nucleic acid several times, asked to be referred to a hospital in Wuhan for treatment for leukaemia.
几经协调后，他们面临的新问题是当地的医院突然不放人了——因为是发烧入院，他们住在了感染区，即使后期排除了新冠肺炎，当时的条件下，医院表示实在没办法调换病房，最终他们只能留在当地隔离。
After several rounds of co-ordination, the new problem they faced was that the local hospital was suddenly closed - they were hospitalized with fever, they lived in an infected area, and even after the new crowbar pneumonia was eliminated, the hospital said it was unable to change wards, leaving them isolated.
另一个民间的志愿者组织武心援团队，每隔几天会整理出一份经核实的非新冠肺炎患者求助名单。
Another civilian volunteer group, Caritas, compiles a list of verified cases of non-Newcomer Pneumonia every few days.
除了求住院的、求转院的，还有人求协调车辆、求救助的，以及求出城的。
In addition to those seeking hospitalization and referral, there were also requests for coordination of vehicles, for help, and for exit from the city.
其中，一位湖北省鄂州市68岁的肺癌患者，在华中科技大学同济医学院附属同济医院已达到了出院标准，可陪同的3位家属因封城而滞留，难以负担医疗与生活费用，且因患有糖尿病，在医院期间，吃饭是摆在眼前的问题，他希望能尽快出城，返回家乡。
A 68-year-old lung cancer patient from Hubei Province who was admitted to Tongji Hospital of Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology met the discharge criteria. The three family members who could accompany him could not afford medical care and living expenses because of the blockage.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他们也在等待病床。
They are also waiting for their beds.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他们也在等待病床";。
var msg _ title = & quot; they also await & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "那些封在城内的非新冠肺炎患者";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
