氧饱和度骤降、插管时机争议：ICU 新冠患者救治之难。
Controversial Timing of Oxygen Saturation and Intubation: The Difficulty of Rescuing ICU Patients with New Crown.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
本文作者：浸月据武汉某一线医院 ICU 医生陈云的回忆，ICU 的变化是从 2020 年 1 月初开始的。
According to Chen Yun, an ICU doctor at a first-line hospital in Wuhan, the change in the ICU began in early January 2020.
1 月初，共由 3 个区组成的 ICU 接到医院通知，专门腾出了一个 16 张床位的病区，收治新冠肺炎的危重患者。
At the beginning of January, the ICU, a group of three districts, was informed by the hospital that a 16-bed ward had been set aside for the treatment of critically ill patients with Newcomial Pneumonia.
「其实之前新闻里就报道过，大概 1 月 6 号，医院开始对 ICU 的那个病区进行专门隔离改造，没几天 16 张床就全住满了。
"In fact, as previously reported in the news, on January 6, the hospital began a special quarantine of the ICU's sick area, and in a few days 16 beds were fully occupied.
」对于这个变化，武汉另一家一线医院的麻醉医生张逸，在疫情初期也有切身体会：「刚开始是很绝望的，因为病人越看越多……」按照第 7 版《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案》，新冠肺炎临床分型分为轻型、普通型和重型。
Zhang Yi, an anaesthetist at another first-line hospital in Wuhan, experienced the change first-hand at the beginning of the outbreak: "It was very desperate at first because the more patients looked..." According to the 7th edition of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme, the clinical classification of New Coronavirus Pneumonia was light, common and heavy.
重型患者出现呼吸衰竭、休克或合并其他器官功能衰竭需 ICU 治疗，则是危重型。
Severe patients with respiratory failure, shock or other organ failure requiring ICU treatment are critically ill.
目前武汉的定点医院 ICU 收治的患者基本都属于危重型。
At present, Wuhan Dingdian Hospital ICU patients admitted to the basic belong to the critical type.
《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第 7 版）》根根据中华医学会 2 月份发布的「新冠肺炎患者流行病学特征」，轻/中型病例占确认病例的 80.9%，重型病例占 13.8%，危重型病例占比较小，只有 4.7%。
The New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 7) is based on the "Epidemiological Characteristics of Patients with Coronavirus Pneumonia," published by the Chinese Medical Association in February. Light / medium cases account for 80.9% of confirmed cases, heavy cases for 13.8%, and only 4.7% for critical cases.
但是在危重病例中，粗病死率高达 49%。
In serious cases, however, the crude death rate is as high as 49%.
中华医学会期刊截图作为武汉某定点医院的 ICU 主任，对于新冠肺炎危重型患者的救治，郭飞总结了一个字：难。
As the director of ICU in a certain point hospital in Wuhan, Guo Fei summed up a word: difficult.
病情监测之难：氧饱和度骤降，肺泡空间岌岌可危新冠危重患者有一个十分常见的特征，那就是病情的「突然加速」倾向，集中体现在氧饱和度的骤降。
Difficulty in disease surveillance: Oxygen saturation has plummeted and alveolar space is in danger. A very common feature of new-crown crisis patients is the "sudden acceleration" of the disease, which is concentrated in a sharp drop in oxygen saturation.
麻醉医生张逸就曾经接手过这样的患者：一开始，患者的氧饱和度还在 90% 以上，也能够跟医护人员交流，说话中气也很足。
Anesthetist Zhang Yi once had patients with oxygen saturation of more than 90% in the beginning, and was able to communicate with health care workers and speak neutrally.
但不到 10 个小时，患者的氧饱和度就掉得非常低：「等到我们插管的时候，氧饱和度就只有 30% 左右了。
But in less than 10 hours, the patient's oxygen saturation drops very low: "By the time we intubate, the oxygen saturation is only about 30%.
」人体动脉血氧饱和度与氧分压直接相关，正常值在 95% 以上，一般认为氧饱和度在 94% 以下为机体供氧不足的表现，在 90% 以下则是低氧血症的表现。
Blood oxygen saturation is directly related to oxygen partial pressure, with normal values above 95%. Oxygen saturation below 94% is generally considered to be a sign of oxygen deficiency in the body, and below 90% is a sign of hypoxemia.
氧解离曲线。
Oxygen dissociation curve.
氧饱和度降至 90% 时，对应的氧分压（PaO2）约为 60 mmHg，PaO2＜60 mmHg 为低氧血症的表现（图源：水印）郭飞和张逸解释，氧饱和度的骤降跟新冠病毒引起的肺部病理变化有直接的关系。
When oxygen saturation drops to 90%, the corresponding oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) is about 60 mHg, and PaO2 < 60 mmHg is a sign of hypoxemia (source: watermark).
新冠病毒属于病毒性肺炎，主要影响的是肺间质，即肺泡的周围。
The new crown virus is a viral pneumonia, mainly affecting the interstitial lung, that is, around the alveoli.
根据新冠患者的尸检和病理报告，其肺泡腔内会出现浆液、纤维蛋白等渗出物，使肺的通气和换气功能都受到影响。
According to the autopsy and pathology report of the new crowns, the pulp and fibrin exudate will appear in the alveolar cavity, which will affect the ventilation and ventilation function of the lung.
一方面，这些渗出物所形成的「痰液」会堵塞肺泡，使肺泡内的含气量减少。
On the one hand, the "sputum" formed by these exudates can clog the alveoli, reducing the amount of gas in the alveoli.
另一方面，这些渗出物形成的透明膜会像「沥青」一样包裹在肺泡的表面，使肺泡膜的有效气体交换面积减少。
On the other hand, these exudates form transparent membranes that wrap like "bitumen" around the surface of the alveoli, reducing the area of effective gas exchange in the alveolar membrane.
这样，肺泡就很难摄入氧气，也很难再把氧气输送给血液和全身其他组织。
This makes it difficult for the alveoli to take in oxygen, and for it to pass on oxygen to the blood and other tissues throughout the body.
这是一个渐进的过程。
This is a gradual process.
「沥青」还没有包裹满肺泡时，患者的肺部还尚存气体交换功能，患者的氧饱和度看似正常。
The patient's lungs still have a gas exchange function and the oxygen saturation appears to be normal before the "bitumen" is filled with alveoli.
「这时候的氧饱和度具有一定的欺骗性。
"Oxygen saturation at this time is somewhat deceptive.
像这样的患者，其实在他还活蹦乱跳的时候，肺部的情况已经一塌糊涂了。
A patient like this, in fact, is already in a terrible state of the lungs while he is still alive and kicking.
」张逸解释。
"Zhang explained.
等这些「沥青」充满了肺泡，或者患者翻身动一动后氧耗变大，氧饱和度就掉的特别快。
When these "bitumen" are filled with alveoli, or when the patient turns over, oxygen consumption increases and oxygen saturation drops particularly fast.
用张逸的话说，这种情况下，患者是被「憋死」的，他们的肺就像是一个被慢慢堵塞了的堰塞湖。
In Zhang's words, the patient is "choked to death" and their lungs act like a slowly clogged barrier lake.
病情逆转之难：肺叶变石头在郭飞看来，相较于之前的 H7N9 和其他重症肺炎，新冠肺炎危重患者病程更长，病情更加隐匿，后期炎症逆转的可能性也更小。
In Guo's view, patients with severe coronary pneumonia have a longer history, are more insidious, and are less likely to experience a reversal of inflammation later in life than previous patients with H7N9 and other severe pneumonia.
这还是跟患者肺部的病理改变有关。
This is also related to pathological changes in the patient's lungs.
当脏器受损时，人体会启动修复功能。
When the viscera is damaged, the person can initiate the repair function.
新冠危重患者肺间质持续的炎症渗出，导致修复过程中的成肌纤维细胞持续增生，逐渐替代原来正常的肺部组织，形成肺部的纤维化病灶。
The continuous inflammatory exudation of the interstitial lung in patients with severe new crown leads to the continuous proliferation of fibroblast cells in the repair process, which gradually replaces the normal pulmonary tissue and forms fibrotic lesions in the lungs.
异常的纤维化会导致肺泡毛细血管间隙增厚，肺脏变硬变脆，肺顺应性变差，加重肺泡气体交换功能，从而出现呼吸困难和呼吸衰竭的表现。
Abnormal fibrosis leads to thickening of the alveolar capillaries, hardening and brittle lungs, poor lung compliance, and increased alveolar gas exchange, resulting in respiratory distress and respiratory failure.
正常的肺，随着呼吸进行收缩与扩张，吸入气体时压力变大，肺容积也变大。
Normal lungs contract and dilate as they breathe in, and as they inhale, the pressure increases and the lung volume increases.
新冠患者肺产生纤维化病变，后期肺顺应性会变差，此时肺的容积改变小，影响气体的吸入（图源：站酷海洛）《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第 7 版）》轻中度新冠患者的肺部 CT，常表现为肺部局部的磨玻璃影和渗出影。
The pulmonary fibrosis in patients with the new crown causes fibrosis and poor lung compliance in later stages, when the volume of the lung changes little and affects the inhalation of the gas. (Source: CCV Pneumonia Trial Version 7) Pulmonary CT in patients with mild to moderate coronavirus pneumonitis is often characterized by partial glassy shadow and seepage in the lungs.
而新冠危重病人肺部的病变损害很严重，通俗来讲叫做「大白肺」，也就是肺尖到肺底的所有肺叶都受到了侵袭。
In critically ill patients with the new crown, lung lesions are very serious, popularly known as the "large white lung," that is, the tip of the lung to the bottom of all lungs have been attacked.
「我们发现，患者的其他炎症指标（白细胞、CRP、IL-6）的水平都还可以，光看化验感觉患者没什么大问题，但是这样的状态下，患者肺部的病变没有一点好转，甚至还会有实变和纤维化加重的表现。
"We found that other markers of inflammation (leukocytes, CRP, IL-6) were good, and there was no significant change in the patient's lung condition just by looking at it, but in this state, there was no improvement in the lung lesions, and there were even signs of consolidation and increased fibrosis.
」郭飞说。
"said Guo.
陈云就接诊到这样一例「大白肺」危重患者，肺部 CT 显示双肺全白，已经分不清肺和纵膈，「或者说都看不到肺了，肺部全部实变。
Chen was admitted to a critical case of "large white lung." The lung CT showed total white lung and mediastinum, "or no lung can be seen, all lung consolidation."
这样的肺基本上已经失去了呼吸功能，变得像石头一样硬。
The lungs have basically lost their breathing function and become as hard as stones.
」肺纤维化的胸片表现（图源：图虫创意）对危重患者而言，新冠病毒造成的炎症损伤并不仅限于肺部。
Pulmonary fibrosis chest radiography (Source: Toothworm Creativity) Inflammatory damage caused by the new crown virus is not limited to the lungs in critically ill patients.
《柳叶刀》（TheLancet）在本月发表了一项关于 COVID-19 成人患者死亡危险因素的研究（重型、危重型为主），在死亡患者中，呼吸衰竭、脓毒症和继发感染等并发症的发生率特别高。
The Lancet published a study this month on risk factors for death in adults with COVID-19 (heavy, critical), with a particularly high incidence of complications such as respiratory failure, sepsis, and secondary infections among those who die.
其中脓毒症在所有死亡患者中的发生率为 100%。
The incidence of sepsis was 100 per cent of all deaths.
TheLancet 期刊截图张逸认为，新冠危重患者的治疗，「其实最后是在和『炎症风暴』」打交道。
According to screenshot Zhang Yi of The Lancet, the treatment of critically ill patients "is ultimately dealing with an inflammatory storm."
对于部分新冠患者而言，病毒本身的影响并不是很大，但机体的恶性炎症感染会像火山爆发一样在体内快速蔓延，最后侵袭心血管、泌尿等多个系统，造成心衰、肾衰等并发症。
For some new crown patients, the virus itself is not very significant, but the body's malignant inflammation like a volcanic eruption quickly spread in the body, finally attack cardiovascular, urinary and other systems, resulting in heart failure, kidney failure and other complications.
这种情况下，病情逆转的可能性就更小了。
In such cases, the likelihood of a reversal is even lower.
」呼吸支持争议：插管时机是否越早越好？如陈云所言，病毒性肺炎是自限性疾病，需要等机体自身排出病毒，药物治疗的效果很有限。
Respiratory support debate: Is the timing of intubation as early as possible? As Chen said, viral pneumonia is self-limited and requires the body to expel the virus itself, with limited therapeutic effect.
对于病情重的患者，即使治疗给到极限，他们的病情进展依然维持不住。
For the seriously ill, even if the treatment to the limit of their condition, their progress can not be maintained.
因此，目前针对新冠危重患者这样的问题，在 ICU 的主要治疗是「对症治疗」和「支持治疗」。
Therefore, at present, the main treatment in ICU is "symptomatic treatment" and "supportive therapy" for patients with acute new crown crisis.
首当其冲的是呼吸支持。
The first is respiratory support.
针对危重患者氧饱和度骤然下降这一现实，插管的关口需不需要前移呢？根据第 7 版《诊疗方案》，新冠肺炎重型、危重型患者呼吸支持，遵循一个氧疗的顺序。
In view of the fact that oxygen saturation in critically ill patients has suddenly declined, does the intubation need to move forward? According to the 7th Edition of the Diagnosis and Treatment Programme, severe and critical respiratory support for Newcrown Pneumonia follows an oxygen therapy sequence.
重型患者先使用鼻导管或面罩吸氧，但此时若呼吸窘迫或低氧血症仍无法缓解，可采用高流量鼻导管吸氧或无创正压辅助通气。
Heavy patients first use nasal catheters or face masks to absorb oxygen, but if respiratory distress or hypoxemia cannot be alleviated, a high flow nasal catheter can be used for oxygen absorption or noninvasive positive pressure assisted ventilation.
若 2 小时内无改善，为让患者保证充分的氧合，同时让患者的肺部得到充分的休息，只能行气管插管或气管切开，连接呼吸机来进行机械通气，争取恢复的时间。
If there is no improvement within 2 hours, in order for the patient to ensure adequate oxygenation while allowing adequate rest of the lungs, only the tracheotomy or tracheotomy can be performed and the ventilator is connected to the ventilator for mechanical ventilation to achieve recovery time.
张逸认为，新冠危重患者的插管关口可以适当前移，提早让肺进入镇静的状态，可以让肺部得到充足的休息。
Zhang Yi thinks, the intubation of new crown critically ill patient can move forward appropriately, let lung enter calming state early, can let the lung get enough rest.
「在插管之前，主要靠的是患者主动呼吸来控制肺的收缩和舒张，但如果患者病情很重，对肺的机能是很大的挑战。
"Before catheterization, it is mainly the patient's active breathing that controls the contraction and diastolic of the lung, but if the patient is very serious, it is a great challenge to lung function.
」根据中国医师协会对新冠患者治疗的专家推荐意见，患者的氧合指数（PaO2/FiO2）≤150 mmHg时（正常值为 400～500 mmHg），尽早实施有创机械通气治疗。
The patient's oxygen index (PaO2 / FiO2) ≤ 150 mHg (normal value 400 - 500 mmHg) is applied as early as possible, based on the recommendations of experts from the Chinese Medical Association on the treatment of patients with new crown conditions.
张逸表示，目前自己接触到的新冠患者病情恶化速度快，氧饱和度 90% 以下者很难维持较长时间：「所以我个人认为，患者的氧饱和度在 90%～95% 之间的时候就可以考虑尽早插管，让肺部得到休息。
Zhang said people exposed to the new crown were suffering from a rapid deterioration and had difficulty maintaining oxygen saturation below 90 per cent for a longer period of time: "So I personally believe that patients with oxygen saturation between 90 per cent and 95 per cent could be considered for early lung rest.
当前的医疗资源也有所改善，插管医生防护更充分，可以尽早插管，做更加积极的治疗。
Current medical resources have also improved, with better protection by intubation physicians, early intubation and more aggressive treatment.
」张逸和郭飞都认同「插管的目的是拔管」。
Both Zhang and Guo agree that "the purpose of intubation is to pull the tube out."
插管治疗只是开始，完成插管后，需要一个团队不断地去调整呼吸机的参数、调整镇静药或抗感染药的走量。
Intubation is only the beginning, after the completion of the intubation, a team to constantly adjust the parameters of the ventilator, adjust the sedative or anti-infection drug volume.
而插管后本身就存在一定的风险：气压伤和继发感染。
Intubation itself has a certain risk: barometric injuries and secondary infections.
呼吸机给予肺内正压，当所造成的肺内外压力的不平衡时，就可能导致肺组织或血管破裂，严重者会造成气胸。
Ventilator exerts positive pressure on the lungs. When the pressure inside and outside the lungs is unbalanced, it may lead to rupture of lung tissue or blood vessels and, in serious cases, pneumothorax.
（图源：图虫创意）首先是气压伤。
(Source: Toothworm Creativity) First is the air pressure injury.
张逸认为，呼吸机毕竟是外力，一旦掌握不好，容易导致肺内外压力不平衡产生气压伤，损害肺部，严重的会导致气胸。
Zhang Yi thinks, breathing machine is external force after all, once master is not good, easy to cause lung inside and outside pressure imbalance produces barometric injury, damage to the lungs, serious can cause pneumothorax.
郭飞发现，新冠危重患者插管后产生气压伤，主要有 3 个时间窗：第一，拔管撤机的时候。
Guo Feifei found that the new crown crisis patients after the intubation, there are three main time windows: First, the withdrawal of the tube when the time.
「新冠的病人插管之后，呼吸功耗很大，需要用镇静剂，但是镇静剂用的剂量大了，在呼吸机撤机的时候会出现人机对抗，这样很容易产生气压伤」《临床肺科杂志》截图第二，是患者的小气道扩张的时候。
"The patients in the new crown have a lot of breathing power and need sedatives, but the sedatives are used in large doses and there is a man-machine confrontation when the ventilator is withdrawn, which can easily cause barometric injuries." The second screenshot in the Journal of Clinical Pulmonary Medicine shows the patient's airway dilation.
对新冠危重患者而言，气体根本进不到远端的肺泡和小支气管，这些气体产生的的压力就会使肺部的气道扩张，这时候很容易出现气压伤，这也是患者出现气压伤的主要原因。
For patients with a new crown crisis, the gas simply does not reach the distal alveoli and bronchial tubes. The pressure from these gases dilates the airways of the lungs.
第三，就是到病情后期时，患者的氧合状态逐步稳定，但是由于肺纤维化病变，患者肺泡的弹性不足，肺顺应性变差，变得很硬很脆，这个时候即使是吸入正常量的空气也可能会对肺部造成过大压力，产生气压伤。
Third, by the end of the disease, the patient's oxygen status stabilizes gradually, but due to pulmonary fibrosis, the alveolar elasticity of the patient is insufficient, lung compliance becomes poor and becomes very rigid and brittle. Even a normal intake of air at this time may cause excessive pressure on the lungs, resulting in barometric injuries.
除了气压伤，呼吸机使用中产生的继发感染也是个问题。
In addition to barometric injuries, secondary infections from ventilator use are also a problem.
据张逸的介绍，呼吸机产生的正压压力，可能会不断地把气道出现的「痰液」又打进肺部，反而加重了肺泡透明膜的形成，造成了呼吸机相关的炎症和感染。
According to Zhang, the positive pressure generated by the ventilator may continue to pump mucus from the airway into the lungs, exacerbating the formation of the alveolar hyaluronic membrane, causing inflammation and infection associated with the ventilator.
因此郭飞觉得，插管的时机还需要结合患者病情慎重考虑，在无创正压通气维持无效的时候再通过机械通气进行肺的保护，会更有意义：「有时候在特殊情况下，对于那些呼吸频率不快、没有特别气促的、说话中气十足、能吃东西的患者，在 60% 到 80% 氧浓度维持下，患者氧饱和度能在 90% 以上的，我们会稍微延后插管。
Therefore, Guo feels that the timing of intubation needs to be carefully considered in conjunction with patient's condition. "Sometimes, in exceptional cases, we delay intubation slightly if the patient's oxygen saturation is above 90% at 60% to 80% oxygen concentration."
」低氧与高二氧化碳的转换之难新冠危重患者的小气道阻力增加，的肺泡通气不足，易导致 2 种结果：氧气吸入困难、二氧化碳排出也困难。
"Low oxygen and high carbon dioxide conversion difficult new crown critical patient's small airway resistance increases, the alveolar airway insufficient, easy to cause 2 kinds of results: the oxygen inhale difficulty, the carbon dioxide discharge difficulty.
所以会造成 2 个数字的波动，即氧分压下降（PaO2＜60 mmHg，低氧血症），二氧化碳分压上升（PaCO2＞45 mmHg，高碳酸血症）。
This causes fluctuations of two numbers, namely, a decrease in oxygen partial pressure (PaO2 < 60 mmHg, hypoxemia) and an increase in carbon dioxide partial pressure (PaCO2 > 45 mmHg, hypercapnia).
严重的低氧血症和持续的高碳酸血症，这在新冠肺炎危重患者身上往往会同时出现。
Severe hypoxemia and persistent hypercapnia often occur simultaneously in patients with severe coronary pneumonia.
这给医护人员留下了一个大难题。
That leaves a big problem for health care workers.
为改善这两个问题，ICU 的医护人员们想了各种办法，用得比较多的是「纤支镜吸痰」和「俯卧位通气联合震动排痰」。
To improve these two problems, ICU medical staff have come up with a variety of methods, most commonly "fiberoptic suction" and "prone position ventilation combined to vibrate sputum."
目前不同的医院对「俯卧位通气」这一方法的看法比较一致。
At present, different hospitals agree on the method of "prone position ventilation."
张逸介绍，让患者呈现俯卧位，由于重力的作用，平时闭合的一些气道会重新开放。
Zhang Yi introduced, let the patient appear prone position, because of gravity action, some airway that normally closes will reopen.
这样有利于改善患者肺泡的通气功能。
This is beneficial to improve the ventilation function of the alveoli.
但据郭飞所看到的病例，持续 5～7 天的俯卧位通气似乎能够改善患者的氧合指数，但对于持续的高碳酸血症，没有明显的作用。
But according to Guo's case, supine ventilation lasting five to seven days appears to improve the patient's oxygenation index, but has no significant effect on persistent hypercapnia.
到后面真正令人头疼的还是高那多出来的「二氧化碳」。
The real headache in the back is the "carbon dioxide" glut.
郭飞说，很多新冠患者气道内痰液形成的黏栓会把细支气管和肺泡堵住，二氧化碳排除困难，会形成高碳酸血症。
Many newly-crowned patients develop embolus of mucus in their airways that clog bronchi and alveoli, making it difficult to remove carbon dioxide and forming hypercapnia, Guo said.
这批患者到后期，肺的顺应性变得非常差。
In later stages of the patient's life, lung compliance became very poor.
甚至到病程第四周、五周之后仍然没有明显好转，还会由于气压伤等原因，出现纵膈气肿。
Even after the fourth week of the disease, five weeks after no significant improvement, but also due to barometric injuries, such as the appearance of mediastinal emphysema.
据陈云的回忆，后期维持不住的患者，即使呼吸机参数调到极限，氧合跟二氧化碳水平仍难以改善。
According to Chen's recollection, oxygen and carbon dioxide levels are difficult to improve in patients who cannot sustain themselves later, even if the ventilator parameters are set to limit.
最严重的病人「呼吸机参数调到极限，二氧化碳分压仍持续升高，甚至涨到了 150 mmHg。
In the most severe patients, the respirator parameters were set to a limit, and CO2 partial pressure continued to rise, even to 150 mmHg.
」为排出小气道的痰液，普通的吸痰操作和震动排痰很难看到结果，张逸的医院尝试使用「纤维支气管镜」（纤支镜）吸痰，即用一个气管导管进入到患者的肺里，导管的终端是镜子，可以清楚地看到气道里的情况。
In order to expel phlegm from the small airway, ordinary sputum suction and shaking are difficult to see. Zhang's hospital tried to suck phlegm with fiberoptic bronchoscope (fiberoptic bronchoscope), a trachea catheter into the patient's lungs and a mirror at the end of the catheter giving a clear view of the airway.
导管可以通向各级细支气管，将里面的痰液吸出来，如果痰液浓稠，也可以通过纤支镜稀释之后再吸出来。
The catheter leads to the bronchioles, sucking up the sputum and diluting it with fiberoptic bronchoscope if the sputum is thick.
纤支镜吸痰（图源：站酷海洛）但根据不同医院的经验，纤支镜吸痰的产生效果也有差异，在张逸的医院，效果还是比较令人满意。
Fiberoptic sucking up sputum (Source: station Cool Helo) But according to the experience of different hospitals, the sputum suction effect of fiberglass also has the difference, in Zhang Yi's hospital, the effect is more satisfactory.
但根据郭飞的经验，纤支镜吸痰的效果有限，对二氧化碳潴留还是没有起到明显的作用。
But according to Guo Fei's experience, fiberglass suction sputum effect is limited, carbon dioxide retention or not played a significant role.
于是，郭飞又尝试使用了「俯卧位通气联合震动排痰仪器」，用 300～600 转/分的高频率震动拍背，把小气道的痰液震到上面的大气道，帮助排痰。
Guo then attempted to use the "prone position combined with vibration and sputum exhaust apparatus" with 300 to 600 turns / minute high-frequency vibration patter back, the small airway sputum shock to the upper atmosphere, to help exhaust phlegm.
但还是发现收效甚微：「我们遇到很多的病人，即便是这样的方式，二氧化碳分压仍然渐进性升高。
But it turned out to be of little help: "We've had a lot of patients, and even in this way, the partial pressure on carbon dioxide is increasing gradually.
」激素判断之难：用不用？何时用？对于 ARDS 患者来说，糖皮质激素具有调节炎症反应的作用，可减缓纤维化进程，在救治中具有潜在的优势。
For ARDS patients, glucocorticoid has the potential to slow down the fibrosis process and has a potential advantage in curing it.
常用的有甲泼尼龙、氢化可的松等。
Commonly used are Depo-nylon, hydrocortisone and so on.
目前国家对于新冠肺炎患者激素的使用，是一个逐步收紧的态度。
At present, the use of hormones in patients with new crown pneumonia is a step-by-step tightening attitude.
1 月 16 日，国家卫健委发布第 1 版《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行）》，其中「糖皮质激素」被放置在「一般治疗」中：「根据患者呼吸困难程度、胸部影像学进展情况，酌情短期内（3～5 天）使用糖皮质激素，建议剂量不超过相当于甲泼尼龙（糖皮质激素类药物的一种）1～2 mg/kg·d（每天每公斤体重不超过 12 mg）」1 月 27 日，第 4 版诊疗方案发布，「糖皮质激素治疗」从「一般治疗」中删除，只被列入「重型、危重型病例治疗」的「其他治疗措施」一项中。
On January 16, the National Fitness and Health Commission (NCHC) released the first edition of the Diagnostic and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infection, in which glucocorticoid is placed in general treatment.
《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第 4 版）》在第 6 版诊疗指南中，卫健委将激素在重型、危重型患者中的使用指针进一步限定为「对于氧合指标进行性恶化、影像学进展迅速、机体炎症反应过度激活状态的患者」可酌情使用，建议使用剂量和疗程均无变化。
In the 6th edition of the Diagnostic Guide to Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 4), the Wei Bodyguard Commission further restricted the use of hormones to "patients with progressive deterioration of the oxygenation index, rapid imaging progress and hyperactivation of inflammatory response." The recommended dosage and course of treatment remained unchanged.
《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第 6版）》在第 7 版诊疗方案中，激素治疗仍在「其他治疗」中，基本维持了第 6 版诊疗方案对激素的使用建议。
"Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 6)" In the 7th Edition of the protocol, hormone therapy is still in "other treatments," basically maintaining the hormonal use advice of the 6th edition of the protocol.
对于激素使用，南方医科大学南方医院呼吸内科副主任医师胡国栋在接受媒体采访时则提出了不同观点：「只能说，在关键时刻，激素可以救命。
As for hormone use, Hu Guodong, deputy director of respiratory medicine at the Southern Hospital of Southern Medical University, gave a different view in an interview: "It can only be said that hormones can save lives at critical moments.
」郭飞告诉丁香园，现在激素是否使用在临床还是一个明显的争议，「现在不光是『激素用不用』的问题，激素在新冠危重患者中使用的时间窗，即『什么时候用激素』也是一个争议点。
Guo told Lilac Garden that there was a clear clinical debate about whether hormones were being used. "It is not just a question of hormone use," Guo said. "The window that hormones use in patients with new crown crises, when to use hormones, is also a point of contention.
」首先是激素能否改善患者症状的争议。
The first is the debate over whether hormones can improve symptoms in patients.
「有人认为使用激素可以改善症状，对临床一部分早期从轻症往重症转的炎症进展期患者可能有好处，但是有人就认为，其实这样做是掩盖了病情，做了一个表象的东西，到后期如果病毒复制你改变不了的话，就会出现后期的感染，包括激素本身存在的真菌感染等不良反应。
"It has been suggested that hormone use may improve symptoms and may be beneficial to some patients in the early stages of progression from mild to severe inflammation, but it has been suggested that this is a cover-up, a cosmetic thing, and later, if the virus replicates and you can't change it, there will be later infections, including fungal infections in the hormone itself.
我们也有病人在用，就是用了可能会把肺部纤维化病变吸收，肺顺应性好了，但是后期就并发了真菌感染。
We also have patients who may be able to absorb fibrosis in the lungs, but have fungal infections later in life.
」其次是患者病情进展后期，肺部出现机化和纤维化的时候该不该使用激素的问题。
"The next question was whether the hormone should be used in the later stages of the patient's development, when the lungs become mechanized and fibrotic.
「激素使用的剂量一大，会抑制 T 细胞，淋巴细胞就不会回升，到最后病毒的复制时间就延长。
"A large dose of hormones inhibits T cells, the lymphocytes do not rebound and the replication time of the virus is prolonged.
这样一来，反而会延长患者的病程，增加住院时间。
This, in turn, prolongs the patient's illness and increases the length of hospitalization.
激素的大剂量使用使病毒复制延长了以后，再继续使用激素，淋巴细胞会不会再被抑制，没有人有足够把握。
No one is sure that lymphocytes will no longer be inhibited after a high dose of hormones prolongs viral replication and continues to use hormones.
」郭飞所在的 ICU，收的病人大多数已经是病情进展后期患者，大部分已经在前期用过激素治疗。
In Guo's ICU, patients are mostly late-stage patients, most of whom have already taken hormone therapy in the early stages.
所以她们的原则是：激素能不用就不用，如果一定要用的话，剂量也是维持在 40 mg*5 天（q12h）的短疗程治疗。
So their rule: Hormone use is no longer necessary, if necessary, the dose is maintained at 40 mg * 5 days (q12 h) short course of treatment.
————据陈云和张逸的经验，对新冠危重患者而言，「抗病毒药物治疗的效果很有限。
In the experience of Chen Yun and Zhang Yi, "Antiviral treatment is of limited effectiveness" for patients in critical condition of the crown.
因为对于这些患者，抗病毒治疗无非是为了减少体内病毒的数量，但本身新冠造成的炎症对机体的损伤，是需要靠患者自身去恢复的。
For these patients, antiviral treatment is no more than to reduce the number of viruses in the body, but its own new crown caused inflammation damage to the body, it is up to the patient to recover.
」这一点，郭飞也同意，「只有帮助病人支撑的时间越长，才会有更多病毒转阴的时间窗，病人淋巴细胞状态、免疫功能有可能得到恢复、损伤的肺恢复的时间窗。
"The longer it takes for patients to support themselves, the more time window there will be for the virus to become cloudy, for lymphocyte status, for immune function to be restored and for lung recovery to be damaged," Mr Guo agreed.
」当然从危重症的角度来看，「我们还是更希望把患者从轻症到重症发展的这条路上就阻断掉。
"Of course, from a critical point of view," we prefer to stop the progression from mild to severe.
」在郭飞的 ICU，新冠危重患者已经没有以前那么多，「专属」的 16 张床位出现了 3～4 张空床；陈云的 ICU 近期也转出去了几个病人，但大多数危重患者还在苦苦支撑。
In Guo's ICU, there are fewer patients in critical condition, with three to four empty beds in the "exclusive" 16-bed section, and Chen's ICU has recently moved out several patients, but most are struggling to survive.
何时插管？何时使用激素？病情如何逆转？……这些问题依旧每天在救治新冠危重患者的 ICU 出现。
When to intubate? When to use hormone? How is the condition reversed?... These problems still appear daily in the ICU that treats critically ill patients in the new crown.
我们期待随着时间的推移和研究的深入，这些关键性问题能够得到圆满的解决。
We look forward to the successful resolution of these crucial issues over time and with further study.
文中陈云、张逸、郭飞均为化名。
Chen Yun, Zhang Yi and Guo Fei are aliases.
题图来源：图虫创意欢迎向丁香园报料！请加微信：dxylzzb参考来源：1.http://www.cmda.net/xhdt/13626.jhtml2.http://rs.yiigle.com/yufabiao/1180121.htm3.http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/zhengceku/2020-4.03/04/5486705/files/ae61004f930d47598711a0d4cbf874a9.pdf5.http://www.gov.cn/zhengce/zhengceku/2020-03/04/5486705/files/ae61004f930d47598711a0d4cbf874a9.pdf。
http: / / www.cmda.net / xhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhengce / zhengceku / ae61004f930d4759877a9.pdf5.http: / / www.gov.cn / zhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http: / / www.rs.cn / zhdt / 13626.jhtml2.http
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
氧饱和度骤降、插管时机争议：ICU 新冠患者救治之难。
Controversial Timing of Oxygen Saturation and Intubation: The Difficulty of Rescuing ICU Patients with New Crown.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "氧饱和度骤降、插管时机争议：ICU 新冠患者救治之难";。
var msg _ title = & quot; plummeting oxygen saturation; timing dispute: & # 160; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "难点与争议重重";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; difficult and controversial.
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
