疫情这57天里，中国发生了哪些不易察觉的变化？。
What undetectable changes have taken place in China over the past 57 days?
丁畏  祝好。
Good morning, Ding Wei.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
每一颗齿轮，仍在转动。
Every gear is still turning.
今天是武汉封城的第57天。
Today is the 57th day of Wuhan Sealing City.
不止武汉，在这57天里，整个中国都因这场突然而至的疫情陷入隔离，城市被分割成孤岛，小区封闭，楼栋禁止出入，14亿人被丢进了一场大型社会实验中。
Wuhan is not the only country where China has been isolated by the sudden onslaught in 57 days, with cities divided into isolated islands, isolated neighborhoods, off-limits buildings and 1.4 billion people thrown into a major social experiment.
根据行为心理学，人类只需要21天，就可以养成一个新的习惯。
According to behavioral psychology, it takes only 21 days for humans to develop a new habit.
在疫情来袭的57天里，许多改变已悄然发生，它可能只是某个细小的生活习惯，可能涉及一个巨大产业的转型，也可能事关下一代人的福祉。
In the 57 days since the outbreak struck, many changes have occurred quietly. It could be just a small habit, possibly involving a transformation of a huge industry, or perhaps the well-being of future generations.
有些改变，一旦发生便不可逆。
Some changes, once they occur, are irreversible.
方舱里授课的老师、长江上听课的孩子、焦虑的小企业主、田间泥地里直播的农民、线上问诊的医生、学着用手机买菜的老人……他们共同见证了这些变化，身处其中却浑然不觉。
Teachers in the cabin, children attending classes on the Yangtze, anxious small business owners, farmers living in mud fields, doctors on the Internet, elderly people learning to buy things on mobile phones... they have all witnessed these changes without being aware of them.
好在有他们，在变化之中，中国的每一颗齿轮，仍在转动。
Fortunately, with them, in the midst of change, every gear in China is still turning.
1.2亿学生的新年第一课每天早上8点到10点间，这个跨越5个时区的国家有2.7亿学生坐在教室里，等待1600多万名老师前来授课。
Lesson 1 Every morning between 8 a.m. and 10 a.m., 270 million students sit in classrooms in a country spanning five time zones, waiting for more than 16 million teachers to come and teach.
其中，有1亿多小学生，8500多万名中学生和2831万名大学生。
Among them, there are more than 100 million primary school students, more than 85 million middle school students and 28.31 million college students.
上课铃和读书声，从52万所学校里传出。
Ring and reading came from 520,000 schools.
人们对这些声音习以为常，短暂的春节假期不会改变这种印象。
People get used to these sounds, and the short Spring Festival doesn't change that impression.
反正待到开学那天，它总会再响起。
After all, it will ring again on the day of school.
但今年不同。
But this year is different.
杜荣住进方舱医院的那天，武汉下起大雪，隔离在家的她刚吃过午饭，还没来得及洗碗，就和另5位病友被送上了开往方舱的车。
The day Du Rong was admitted to the cabin hospital, it snowed heavily in Wuhan. She had just had lunch in isolation. Before she could wash the dishes, she and five other sick people were taken to the cabin.
上车时，众人一言不发，“本来还想看看雪景”，她有些遗憾。
As she got into the car, the crowd said nothing. "I would have liked to see the snow," she said regretfully.
杜荣当了21年老师，教小学英语。
Du Rong has been a teacher for 21 years, teaching elementary English.
她经历过2003年的非典，此时与彼时一点不同。
She experienced SARS in 2003, at a very different time.
当年27岁的她曾报名在医院当了一个月志愿者。
At the age of 27, she signed up to volunteer at the hospital for a month.
虽然紧张，但只要走出医院，外面的世界依旧如常。
Although nervous, but as long as out of the hospital, the outside world is still as usual.
杜荣没想到，17年后，自己成了患者。
Du Rong did not expect, 17 years later, he became a patient.
她经历了许多人生中的第一次：刷牙，发现舌苔是黄的；咳嗽，吐出来的痰是棕色的；脸色发白，不敢照镜子。
For the first time in her life, she brushed her teeth and discovered that her tongue was yellow. She coughed and spat out brown sputum.
她上网找新冠肺炎的症状，发现“除了呼吸衰竭，应有尽有”。
She looked online for signs of pneumonia and found "everything but respiratory failure."
她在朋友圈里看到众多求助信息，她开始感到恐慌。
She saw so much help in her friends' circle that she began to panic.
另一个第一次，是她通过钉钉给孩子们上课。
Another first time, she nailed the children to class.
2月10日，开学这天，她第一次在镜头前做起了主播。
On February 10, the day of school, she made her first appearance before the camera.
过去，她的课堂总是活跃，看不见学生，她还有点不太习惯。
In the past, she was always active in class, couldn't see the students, and she was not used to it.
杜荣在方舱医院为学生钉钉直播上课。
Du Rong was nailing his students to a live class at the Fang Hatch Hospital.
好在学生们打字互动颇多，“和孩子们在一起时，一点都想不起来自己生病了。
Fortunately, the students typed with each other so much that "I can't remember being sick when I'm with the children.
”她说。
'she said.
开学这天，对身处杭州的方氪也非比寻常。
It was an unusual day for kryptonian in Hangzhou.
作为钉钉教育线的产品经理，他身处一个只有20多人的小团队，却要保障上亿学生在线上听课。
As the product manager of the Nailing Education Line, he sits on a small team of more than 20 and ensures that hundreds of millions of students attend online classes.
所有人都很紧张。
Everybody's nervous.
方氪和他的伙伴们最初判断，8点会是高峰期。
According to Fkrypton and his friends, 8: 00 will be the peak.
待8点过去，他们松了一口气，谁知8点半却有更多学生涌入，到了9点，他们发现，“之前都是小儿科”。
By 8: 00 they were relieved, but by 8: 30 more students were pouring in, and by 9: 00, they had found, "It was all pediatrics."
原本期待的是一条溪流，没想到等来了一场海啸。
Originally expected is a stream, did not expect a tsunami.
这样的经历，在企业复工的2月3日，也曾发生过。
Such an experience also happened on February 3, when the company resumed work.
当时服务器的压力激增，他们只能紧急向阿里云求助。
There was a surge in server pressure and they had to turn urgently to Ali cloud for help.
在短短2小时内新增部署了超过1万台云服务器，创下了阿里云上快速扩容的新纪录。
More than 10,000 new cloud servers were deployed in just two hours, setting a new record for the rapid expansion of capacity on the Ali cloud.
后来，为了应对在线办公和在线上课的双重流量高峰，钉钉连续在阿里云扩容10万多台云服务器。
Later, in response to the double-peak traffic of online office and online classes, nail tacks continued to expand the capacity of more than 100,000 cloud servers in Ariyun.
在挤爆服务器的巨大流量中，有一份来自方舱里的杜荣。
Du Rong, from the cabin, was one of the huge traffic on the crowded server.
每天下午，她都会在自己的病床上通过钉钉给孩子们上课。
Every afternoon, she would hammer children into their beds and teach them lessons.
起初，她不想让孩子们知道自己生病了，直播时小心翼翼，镜头总是对着教材。
At first, she didn't want the children to know they were ill, being careful when they were on the air and always looking at the textbook.
然而，她在方舱的第一次直播就被眼尖的学生看出了破绽。
However, her first live broadcast of the cabin was spotted by the sharp-eyed student.
“那就是一个瞬间，给书翻页的时候，漏出了地面的一角。
"It was a moment when the page was turned and a corner of the ground was left out.
”杜荣班上的孩子发现了她在医院直播。
The children in Du Rong's class found her live in the hospital.
当学生们和方舱里的老师在钉钉上建立联接时，方氪成了“全中国得罪小学生最多的产品经理”。
When the students and the teacher in the square nailed it together, Fang Krypton became "the most offensive product manager in China."
“线上作业、班级群……这些小学生讨厌的功能都是我做出来的。
"On-line homework, class groups... these primary school students hate the function is done by me.
”他笑呵呵地说。
"he said with a smile.
一个月来，有1.2亿学生在钉钉里上课，从东海之滨，到天山脚下，朗朗读书声再次响起。
Over the past month, 120 million students have been studying in studs, from the coast of the East Sea to the foot of Tianshan Mountain.
方氪发现一个心酸的事实，越是偏远乡村的学校，班级群里就越多“小芳的爷爷”、“小明的奶奶”，越少爸爸和妈妈。
Fangkryptonian found a sad fact, the more remote the school, the more "xiao fang grandpa", "xiao ming grandma," the less father and mother.
这些乡村家长是对钉钉最敏感的群体，一切功能都必须最简单、顺滑，“否则小芳的爷爷怎么会用呢？”方氪说。
These village parents are the most sensitive group to nail nails, and all functions must be simple and smooth. "How else would Fang's grandfather use them?" Fang Krypton said.
“用科技的力量，帮助远方的孩子。
"Use the power of technology to help children far away.
”这是方氪和伙伴们的理想。
This is the ideal for Krypton and his partners.
如今这个理想似乎向前迈出了一小步，停课的老师和学生们，无论身处何地，都在网上重建了课堂。
Today, the ideal seems to be a small step forward, with suspended teachers and students reconstructing classrooms online, wherever they are.
一位老师在无人的教室里用钉钉直播上课。
A teacher was nailing in a classroom.
“数字化工作方式提前了三年来到。
"The digital way of working is three years ahead of schedule.
”钉钉音视频的一位负责人说。
"said one person in charge of the staple video.
而数字化学习的时代，则提前了远不止三年。
And the era of digital learning, but well ahead of more than three years.
在方舱医院呆了18天之后，杜荣出院住进了康复驿站，隔壁是雷神山出来的病友。
After spending 18 days in the Fang Cavern Hospital, Du Rong was discharged from the hospital and was admitted to a rehabilitation station.
她依旧通过钉钉给孩子们上课。
She still nailed the children to class.
在钉钉那头，有一个杜荣班上的孩子，平时住在爷爷奶奶家，只有过年放假时，才能和跑船的父母在船上团聚。
At the end of the nail, there is a Du Rong class of children, usually live in grandparents' home, only when the New Year holiday, can be reunited with the parents of the boat.
载着孩子的那艘船至今仍在长江上飘着，因为信号不太稳定，不是每节课都能来。
The ship with the baby is still floating along the Yangtze River because the signal is not steady and not every class can come.
但杜荣依旧庆幸，在长江上的孩子，还能听到她的课，这在17年前不可想象。
But Du was glad that the children on the Yangtze could still hear her lessons, which would have been unthinkable 17 years ago.
想起自己最初的担心，杜荣感到多虑：“孩子们比我想象的强大。
Remembering his initial fears, Du felt worried: "The children are stronger than I thought.
”关店不关张：把生意做到线上2003年非典时，亚洲开发银行行长千野忠男说，“非典”对亚洲地区的影响不仅涉及社会、经济各个层面，甚至也对心理造成极大影响。
When it came to bringing business to the line in 2003, the Asian Development Bank's president, Tadanori Amano, said the impact of SARS on the region was not only social and economic but also psychological.
这不仅仅是指短期的“信心”、消费习惯的微妙变化，也包括继续生活，乃至开创一门新生意的勇气。
This means not only short-term confidence, subtle changes in spending habits, but also the courage to move on and even start a new business.
当时的六大国际机构评估，非典对中国经济增长的长期影响有限，这个乐观的说法最后被证明是事实。
Six big international agencies at the time assessed the long-term impact of SARS on China's economic growth to be limited, and that optimism turned out to be true.
非典期间，阿里巴巴因一名员工感染非典，导致全公司五百多人被在家隔离。
During SARS, Alibaba became infected with SARS among an employee, causing more than 500 people to be isolated at home.
随后马云宣布全员在家隔离并远程办公。
Ma then announced that the entire staff home isolation and telecommuting.
这支可能是中国最早实践远程办公的团队，在隔离期间推出了淘宝。
The team, probably the first in China to practice telecommuting, launched Taobao during isolation.
时间转到2020年2月，在新冠疫情期间，已有上千万家企业，2亿人在钉钉上开启在家远程办公。
The time has shifted to February 2020, when hundreds of millions of businesses, 200 million of them operating remotely from home, were nailed down during the new crown.
一名互联网公司员工在家抱着孩子办公。
An Internet company employee works from home with his children in his arms.
远程复工之外，新的生意正在启动。
In addition to the remote resumption of work, new business is starting.
淘宝不久前公布了2月以来的数据，每天有3万新商家在淘宝开店，总数超100万，其中超过2成来自线下店铺。
Taobao recently released data since February, with 30,000 new businesses opening stores every day in Taobao, totaling more than a million, more than 20% of them from off-line stores.
这个数字是什么概念？1978年，全国的个体经营者只有14万人，私营企业允许登记后的1989年，总数不过9.05万户。
In 1978, there were only 140,000 self-employed people in China, and in 1989, when private enterprises were allowed to register, the total number was only 90,500.
在关于开店原因的调查问卷中，“之前有没有过店铺运营经验”这一栏，最近有30 万人选了“没有经验”。
In a survey of reasons for opening a store, 300,000 people recently chose "no experience" in the category "Have you ever worked in a store before?"
“2011年退役，回家后发现在部队时期留下病症，术后高位截瘫，一直在做各种创业。
"I retired in 2011 and went home to find myself in a post-war situation with high paraplegia and a lot of entrepreneurial activity.
开过茶舍，做过通信配件都赔钱了。
I opened the tea house and lost all my communication accessories.
”一个新开的童装店铺主如是写道：“2019年初开始经营童装店，后来开了第二家。
"A new children's wear shop owner wrote:" We started running a children's store in early 2019 and a second one later.
本来目标就是2020年做线上，提高营业额。
The original goal was to increase turnover by 2020.
遇到疫情，房租要交，贷款要还，就决定把计划提前。
Encounter epidemic, rent to pay, loan to pay, decided to advance the plan.
”“我在线下做的是教育类培训，房租+人工一个月亏损12万左右。
"What I did offline was education-type training, with rent plus a monthly loss of about 120,000 people.
隔离在家，我想借此机会来淘宝平台学习一下，同时希望能通过平台来盈利。
Isolated at home, I would like to take this opportunity to Taobao platform to learn, and hope to be profitable through the platform.
”“因为疫情，公司裁员，我恰好是其中之一。
"" I happen to be one of them because of the epidemic and the company is laying off people.
难过之余，我也想了很久，既然现在有充足的时间，何不干脆来做我一直想做的事？现在疫情影响，无法推进店铺运营，也没有货物，但我打算结束后把店做起来。
Sadly, I also thought for a long time, now that I have enough time, why not just do what I always wanted to do? Now the epidemic is affecting the shops and there are no goods, but I intend to finish them up.
”回顾历史，每逢中国经济发展的转折点，总会有一群人从庞大而卡顿的经济中找到自己的利基空间，他们过去被称为“个体户”，如今叫“创业者”。
In retrospect, at every turning point in China's economic development, there was always a group of people who found their niche in the huge, Cotton economy, formerly known as the "self-employed," or "entrepreneurs."
“中国经济与2003年时相比更具韧性。
"China's economy is more resilient than it was in 2003.
”《南华早报》2月10日发表的评论文章里写道。
The South China Morning Post wrote in a Feb. 10 commentary.
疫情下人们行为习惯变化带来的商业契机，让创业者愿意开拓，也让传统的公司愿意改变过往做生意的方式。
The business opportunities created by changing people's behaviour in the face of the epidemic have made entrepreneurs willing to explore and traditional companies willing to change the way they do business in the past.
良品铺子在淘宝直播庆祝成功上市，疫情期间良品铺子借助数字化逆势突围。
Good goods shops in Taobao live to celebrate the successful launch of good goods shops during the epidemic with digital counter-trend breakthrough.
例如在重用工，重租金的餐饮业，隔离造成的外出消费停滞，影响的是无数被迫“待业”的服务人员。
For example, in reusable, rent-heavy restaurants, the isolation of consumer spending has stalled, affecting countless service workers forced to "stand by".
紧急之下，西贝、云海肴等餐企老板和生鲜超市盒马“共享员工”，把员工转移到当下最需要人力的环节。
In case of emergency, restaurant owners, such as Xibei, Yun Hai, and Shengshen Supermarket Boxes, "share employees" and transfer staff to the areas where human resources are most needed.
拥有大量线下门店的护肤品牌林清轩，每月固定支出3000多万，疫情之下，账面资金只能撑两个月。
Linqing Xuan, a skin care brand with a large number of off-line stores, spends more than 30 million yuan a month on fixed expenses.
创始人孙来春决定和2000多名员工“一起想办法让企业活着”。
Founder Sun Laichun decided to work with more than 2,000 employees to "find ways to keep the company alive."
依靠阿里巴巴的“智能导购”体系积累下的“网络客户资源”，林清轩的导购员们开启了全员上线卖货的模式。
Relying on Alibaba's "intelligent purchasing" system under the accumulation of "network customer resources," Lin Qingxuan's salesmen opened the full-line sales model.
连孙来春自己都亲自上淘宝直播卖货。
Even Sun LiChun himself went to Taobao live selling goods.
15天内，危机边缘的林清轩实现了逆境重生。
Within 15 days, Lin Qingxuan, on the brink of crisis, was reborn.
“想想都后怕。
"I'm afraid of it.
”孙来春说，“如果不是和阿里等大平台的数字化提前布局，林清轩这次线下门店为主导的实体品牌，可能真就面临覆灭，何谈能够业绩逆势增长。
"If it had not been for the digital advance layout of big platforms such as Ali, Lin Qingxuan, the entity-led brand with the offline stores, might have really faced collapse," Sun said.
”早期的汽车制造商们为了卖车，曾计划自费修建公路。
Early carmakers planned to build roads at their own expense to sell their cars.
因为汽车在平整路面上的表现好于在泥地上跑。
Because cars do better on level roads than on muddy ground.
当2020年中国的孙来春遇到了路面坠石无法通行，寻求出路时，一条新公路已经修好了。
When Sun Laichun in China was hit by a road crash in 2020 and was looking for a way out, a new highway was repaired.
面对突如其来的考验，中国的个体户、创业者们或许早就做好了准备，他们生意或折戟或复苏，他们的勇气从哪里来？大概是出于一种势单力薄、但愿意改变现状的韧性。
In the face of sudden tests, China's self-employed and entrepreneurs may be well prepared for where their business is going or where their courage is coming from, presumably out of a tenacity that is weak but willing to change the status quo.
再看看这些简短而有力的开店留言：“疫情严重，开启淘宝店，把继续的医疗和防护用品发回国内，缓解燃眉之急！”“疫情期间，在家无事，开店谋生。
Take a look at these short and forceful store opening messages: "The epidemic is serious, open Taobao stores, continue to send medical and protective supplies back home to alleviate the urgent need!"
”“亲们！我是一名新晋级的宝妈，带娃之余闲暇之余，希望有自己的事业。
"Dear friends, I am a newly promoted precious mother, with baby spare time, hope to have their own career.
”走出田间地头的农民潮水的方向正在改变。
The direction of the tide of farmers coming out of the fields is changing.
三十多年前，农村姑娘王锡荣最好的出路是去城里。
Thirty years ago, the best way out for rural girl Wang Xirong was to go to the city.
她在沈阳打工，每月工资两三百，跟丈夫住在郊区农民房，有次发工资回家，买半只卤鸭下饭，半路就啃得骨头不剩。
She worked in Shenyang and earned two or three hundred dollars a month. She lived in a peasant house in the suburbs with her husband.
后来夫妻开起了小餐馆，2010年左右，房租涨了，人工也涨了好几倍，餐馆不赚钱，只好关掉继续打工。
Later, the couple opened a small restaurant, around 2010, rent rose, labor increased several times, restaurants do not make money, had to close down to continue to work.
但最终，这对年过四十的农民工夫妻还是决定回农村。
But in the end, the couple, who were over 40, decided to return to the countryside.
那几年，在中国的广阔土地上，王锡荣夫妇只是农民工返乡潮的一个缩影。
In those years, across China's vast land, Mr and Mrs Wang were just a microcosm of the return of migrant workers.
“人口红利消失”成了媒体热词，在接下来的几年里，超过700万农民工返乡创业，“新农人”群体开始出现。
The "disappearance of the demographic dividend" became the buzzword in the media, with more than 7m migrant workers returning home to start businesses in the next few years and the "new peasant" group emerging.
一位贵州的村干部接受彭博《商业周刊》采访时表示，以前，我们只能依靠种植水稻、玉米和辣椒以及外出打工的年轻人汇款度日，但现在出去打工的人正带着像使用电脑这样的新技能回到家乡。
Previously, we had to rely on rice, corn and chili peppers and remittances from young people going out to work, but now people are returning home with new skills such as using computers, a Guizhou village official told Bloomberg Business Week.
王锡荣就在其中，她将多年积蓄投入草莓种植，2020年春天，她拥有20亩出产草莓的温室大棚。
Among them is Wang, who invested years of her savings in strawberry growing and owns a 20-acre greenhouse in the spring of 2020.
然而时代的波动，再一次影响了她的命运。
However, the fluctuations of the times, once again affected her fate.
王锡荣的家乡丹东，是全国最大的草莓种植基地。
Wang's hometown of Dandong is the largest strawberry growing base in the country.
按往年惯例，春节正是草莓成熟期，这段日子里，村民们不会有假期，村里大小道路会堵满外来的小货车、三轮车。
As is customary, Spring Festival is the ripening season for strawberries. Villagers do not have holidays. Villages and roads are clogged with foreign pick-up trucks and tricycles.
丹东地区的草莓种植以家庭模式为主，许多老人也会参与草莓采摘。
Strawberry growing in Dandong is based on a family model and many older people are involved in strawberry picking.
但今年大年初二，“一辆车都没有进来。
But this year's New Year's Day, "a car did not enter.
”王锡荣说。
'said Wang.
她到处找人打听，才知道：由于疫情严重，路都封了，货车根本进不来。
She looked around for people to find out that because of the severe epidemic, the roads were blocked and the lorries could not get in.
什么时候结束？不知道。
When does it end? I don't know.
果农们开始把草莓送给亲戚邻居，“草莓都当饭吃了！”但更多草莓，只能烂在地里，往沟渠里倒，她甚至听说，有人拿草莓喂牛。
The farmers began to give strawberries to their relatives and neighbors. "Strawberries are eaten!" But more strawberries had to rot in the ground and pour into the ditches.
王锡荣有些慌，她的全部身家都在地里，如果这种情况持续下去，多年心血将付之东流。
Wang was in a panic, all her possessions were in the field, and if it continued, years of hard work would be wasted.
而且，没有重来的本钱。
And there's no heavy cost.
疫情没有减缓的趋势，王锡荣开始挣扎求生。
The epidemic did not slow down, Wang began to struggle to survive.
几个月前，她参加过一次公益培训，教农民做淘宝直播，她在那里学到“要多喊粉丝名字”。
A few months ago, she attended a volunteer training session to teach farmers to do Taobao live, where she learned to "call fan names more."
这位54岁的农村妇女做梦也想不到，她会因此成为一名网红。
The 54-year-old rural woman would never have dreamed that she would become a networker.
疫情把王锡荣“逼”进了直播间。
The outbreak forced Wang into the studio.
她的第一次直播是在大棚里。
Her first live broadcast was in a shed.
早上摘草莓，下午一点开播，她连妆也没画，直接站到镜头前。
Strawberries in the morning and 1: 00 in the afternoon, she didn't even make up and stood right in front of the camera.
得益于阿里“爱心助农”计划的扶持，直播间人数不少，她要做的是把人留下来，把东西卖出去。
Thanks to the support of Ali's "Loving Farmer" program, there were many people in the studio. All she had to do was keep people and sell things.
爽朗的东北人性格帮了大忙，她不怯场，“唠嗑”停不住，不经意就能抛出段子。
Shuang Shuang Northeast character to help the big help, she is not stage fright, "nagging" can not stop, inadvertently can throw paragraph.
第一天做淘宝直播的王锡荣“像做了一场梦”，卖出三千单、超过一万斤草莓。
The first day to do Taobao live Wang Xirong "like a dream," selling 3000, more than 10 thousand jin of strawberries.
王锡荣所在的东港地区仍然冰天雪地，一辆货车正将草莓从乡村运出。
A lorry hauls strawberries out of the countryside in Donggang, where Wang is still in the snow.
在王锡荣的淘宝直播间，每天都能卖出数千单草莓，自家的不够，就去别家采，也帮邻居出货。
Wang Xi Rong Taobao direct broadcast, each day can sell thousands of single strawberries, not enough of their own, to go to other homes, but also to help neighbors shipping.
有段时间东北下大雪，快递出不去，顾客投诉多，她在直播里解释、道歉，直接冲出大棚， 站在零下十几度的田野里，让粉丝看看雪到底有多厚。
There was a period of snow in the Northeast, express delivery can not get out, customer complaints, she explained in the live broadcast, apologies, directly out of the shed, standing in the minus a dozen degrees of the field to let fans see how thick the snow.
东北农村的王锡荣并不是疫情之下的独行者，根据《智联招聘春季直播产业人才报告》，淘宝的村播版图已拓展到全国，今年2月疫情蔓延以来，淘宝直播的村播场次同比增长了200%。
Wang Xirong, who lives in rural northeast China, is not the only one under the epidemic. According to the report, Taobao's village network has expanded to cover the whole country, with Taobao broadcasting up 200% year-on-year since the epidemic spread in February.
这个春天，在全国各地的农村，数万名淘宝村播，正在通过手机镜头将滞销的农产品送出深山。
Tens of thousands of Taobao villages across the country are sending unsold produce out of the mountains this spring through mobile phones.
直播间里的独立书店直播间里不仅有农民的生计，还有读书人的精神家园。
The independent bookstore in the studio has not only the livelihood of farmers, but also the spiritual home of the scholar.
朱钰芳的第一次直播，是和老朋友许知远连麦。
Zhu Yufang's first live broadcast is with old friend Xu Zhiyuan Mai.
镜头里的许知远红光满面，不用问就知道，他又喝酒了。
Xu Zhi in the lens of the far red face, do not ask to know that he has drunk again.
“就像老朋友见面聊天。
"It's like meeting old friends and chatting.
”她事后回想那场14.5万人观看的淘宝直播，还有点恍惚。
"She thought back to the 145,000 people who watched the Taobao live afterwards, a little dazed.
同为独立书店创始人的朱钰芳和许知远已是多年朋友，这次连麦还是二人首次网上相见。
Zhu Yufang and Xu Zhiyuan, both founders of the independent bookstore, have been friends for years.
2月24日，喜欢读书的人被一条刷屏的消息震惊：那是一份来自单向空间创始人许知远的求助信。
On Feb. 24, readers were shocked by the news of a screen scrubbing: a message from Xu Zhiyuan, the founder of one-way space.
开头第一句话，这位作家说：“疫情迟迟没有尽头，书店撑不住了。
"There is no end to the epidemic," said the writer. "The bookstore can't sustain itself.
”许知远在信中坦承，受疫情影响，书店的客流量只有平时的十分之一，平均每天只能卖出 15 本书。
Xu conceded that the epidemic had reduced bookstore traffic to a tenth of its usual level, with an average of only 15 books sold a day.
在信的最后，他诚恳地吁请人们帮帮书店。
At the end of the letter, he earnestly appealed to people to help the bookstore.
单向空间传出坏消息后，独立书店的整体危机也进入了公众视野。
After bad news from one-way space, the whole crisis of the independent bookstore has also entered the public eye.
对杭州晓风书屋的创始人朱钰芳来说，这是她创立书店25年来的至暗时刻，“比03年还严重”；在南京，为众多读者喜欢的“先锋书店”感到前所未有的压力；在重庆，这座江城的文化符号“经典书店”也快撑不下去。
For Zhu Yufang, founder of Hangzhou's Xiaofeng bookstore, it was a dark moment for her 25-year-old bookstore, "worse than in 03." In Nanjing, the city's cultural symbol, the classic bookstore, is running out of steam as never before.
新冠疫情以来，人们已近两月不再逛街，这对依赖线下渠道的独立书店来说，等于“被卡住了脖子”。
Since the outbreak, people have stopped shopping for nearly two months, which is "neck-tied" for independent bookstores that rely on offline channels.
朱钰芳从未想过，独立书店能跟淘宝直播产生关系，毕竟，前者深沉老派，而后者则喧嚣得多。
Zhu Yufang never thought that independent bookstores and Taobao live production relations, after all, the former deep old-fashioned, and the latter much more noisy.
她创立晓风书屋的初衷很简单：想要一家理想的书店。
She started Xiaofeng Bookstore for a simple reason: to want an ideal bookstore.
90年代初的书店远不是现在的样子，朱钰芳还记得少时的读书经历，那时的书店像供销社，销售员和读者间隔着柜台，书摆在销售员身后的立架上，读者无法直接摸到书，每次逛书店，总要犹豫、挑选很久，才敢让售货员拿一本。
Zhu Yufang still remembers reading experience as a young woman in the early 1990s, when bookstores were like a supply and sales agency, salespeople and readers stood behind counters, books were placed on shelves behind salespeople, readers couldn't reach the books directly, and every time she visited a bookstore, she hesitated and picked out a copy.
这不是朱钰芳期待中书店的样子，在她的设想里，书店应该是个开放的公共空间，读者来去自如，与书亲密无间。
This is not Zhu Yufang look forward to the Chinese bookstore, in her vision, the bookstore should be an open public space, the reader to come and go, and book close.
她决定开一家属于自己的书店。
She decided to open her own bookstore.
经过25年，朱钰芳已经在杭州开起了15家晓风书屋。
After 25 years, Zhu Yufang has opened 15 Xiaofeng bookstores in Hangzhou.
然而这一切，眼下却可能因突然袭来的疫情归零。
All this, however, could now be brought to zero by a sudden outbreak.
当许知远给朱钰芳打来电话沟通淘宝直播时，她正隔离在家陪孩子，虽有疑虑，但更希望书店“尽量撑下去”。
When Xu called Zhu Yufang to talk to her live Taobao broadcast, she was isolated at home with her children.
后来那场淘宝直播，共有6家国内独立书店参加，晓风书屋卖出数百个装有书籍的“盲袋”，与许知远连麦时，有句话让朱钰芳印象深刻，他说：“有人在说直播背叛传统，这不是瞎说吗？所有的时代都需要新的载体。
He sold hundreds of "blind bags" of books, and Xu Yufang was impressed by his words: "Is it not nonsense to say that people are broadcasting a betrayal of tradition? All ages need new carriers."
”是啊，在每一个时代，知识都应该找到新的形式与时代沟通。
"Yes, in every age, knowledge should find new forms to communicate with the times.
疫情的紧张态势里，这个时代的文化消费也正在悄然变奏。
In the tense situation of epidemic, the cultural consumption of this era is changing quietly.
朱钰芳如今在晓风书屋里开辟了淘宝直播专区，经过专门的布置，不仅她本人出镜，书店的年轻店员也拥有淘宝主播的新身份。
Zhu Yufang has now opened a Taobao live studio, after a special layout, not only her own appearance, the bookstore's young shop employees also have the new identity of Taobao anchorman.
朱钰芳喜欢在淘宝直播上给大家念书。
Zhu Yufang likes to study for everyone on Taobao Live.
受访者供图在她眼里，晓风书屋更像某种连结体，一群爱书的人在这里阅读、成长、生活。
In her eyes, Xiaofeng Bookstore is more like a kind of connecting body, where a group of people who love books read, grow and live.
就像许知远在那封求助信里引述的话：“在书店里，人永远都不会感到孤独。
As Xu Zhi quoted in his cover letter: "In a bookstore, one will never feel lonely.
”25年过去了，少年时就在晓风书屋读书的人长大了，会带着自己的孩子再来书店。
"Twenty-five years on, those who had been reading in the Xiaofeng Bookstore as teenagers would come back to the bookstore with their children.
朱钰芳希望，这种东西在网络空间也可以延续。
Zhu Yufang hopes the same thing can continue in cyberspace.
事关每一个人的生活更多的变化，事关每一个人的生活。
It's about more change in everyone's life. It's about everyone's life.
更多人宅在家中，就游历了远方——远在青藏高原的藏族青年多吉平措，为布达拉宫准备了1388年历史上的第一次淘宝直播，吸引了全国各地近百万人围观。
More people stayed at home and traveled faraway places - Dorji Pingtso, a young Tibetan from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, prepared for the first time in the history of Potala in 1388, attracting nearly one million people from all over the country to view the Potala Palace.
3月1日，布达拉宫的讲解员正在进行直播。
March 1, a commentary from Potala Palace is being broadcast live.
来源新华网更多人学会了在网上找医生——为了避免疫情期间恐慌性就诊，造成医疗资源挤兑，阿里健康免费开放了在线问诊功能，几天内，全国共有超过200万人因得到在线问诊，避免了可能的交叉感染。
www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com www.xinhuanet.com More people learned to seek doctors online - in order to avoid panic visits during the epidemic, resulting in a run on medical resources.
更多人关心起了粮食和蔬菜——平时被外卖、餐馆和公司食堂养活着的年轻人们，开始系上围裙，自己动手做饭。
More people are concerned about food and vegetables - young people fed in take-out restaurants and company cafeterias are starting to tie up aprons and cook their own meals.
天猫数据显示，电烤箱、多功能料理锅和洗碗机的销量，都比去年同期增长了不少。
Sales of electric ovens, multi-purpose cooking pots and dishwashers are up from a year ago, according to Cat.
在封闭的小区里，越来越多老人在儿女和社工帮助下学会网购，用盒马买菜，用饿了吗点餐。
In closed small areas, more and more elderly people in children and social workers with the help of learning to buy online, with a box of horses, hungry order.
在一些地区，上盒马抢菜的老年人，甚至逼得年轻人不得不跟着早起。
In some areas, bootlegging elderly people may even force young people to follow suit.
更多人在网上有了新的邻居——疫情期间，闲鱼同城在武汉地区的交易暴增200%，且绝大部分都发生在1到2公里以内。
More people are finding new neighbors online -- during the outbreak, fish trading with the city soared 200 percent in Wuhan, with the vast majority occurring within one to two kilometers.
许多宝贝的标价变成了0.01元、0.1元或者1元，它们的总量在1000万左右。
Many of the baby's prices changed to 0.01 yuan, 0.1 yuan or 1 yuan, and their total value was about 10 million yuan.
这意味，那些宝贝本来就是打算送给邻居的。
That means the babies were meant to be given to their neighbors.
在物资紧缺、物流受限的地方，闲鱼上以物易物的行为，让中止的日常交往得以恢复，很多人通过买卖成了朋友。
In places where supplies are scarce and logistics are limited, barter fish allows suspended daily contact to resume and many people become friends through buying and selling.
在武汉，3万猫奴在闲鱼上接力，为那些主人不能返回的留守猫咪送去水和罐头。
In Wuhan, 30,000 cat slaves relayed on idle fish, carrying water and cans to cats whose owners could not return.
由于需要饲主提前联系好开锁师傅，短期的疫情，竟然催火了开锁等职业。
Due to the need to contact the breeder in advance to unlock the master, short-term epidemic, even the fire unlock profession.
一些熟悉的场景也由此在中国人记忆里被唤醒，那是曾经发生在四合院、小巷、弄堂里的故事，张家做菜缺块姜，李家修椅子没有钉子，只要能说一声，都可以在隔壁邻居家找到。
Some familiar scenes are thus awakened in the Chinese people's memory. It happened in the courtyard, alleys and alleys. The Zhang family lacks ginger, the Li family repair chairs have no nails, can be found in the next-door neighbor's house.
因隔离而陷入孤岛的人们，却在互联网上重拾着逝去的烟火气和人情味。
Isolated by the isolation of the people, but in the Internet to pick up the lost fireworks and human flavor.
饿了么骑手赵彬，一直坚持用相机记录着武汉，从过去热闹的路边摊，到疫情期间无人的街头，都定格在了他的镜头下。
Hungry rider Zhao Bin, has been insisting on using a camera to record Wuhan, from the past busy road stalls, to the epidemic period no one in the streets, are fixed in his camera.
有时他看着空荡荡的街头想，等疫情结束了，大家都从房子里跑出来庆祝的时候，他一定要拍下陌生人拥抱在一起的照片3月18日，湖北新增确诊病例0例。
Sometimes he looked at the empty streets and thought that when the outbreak was over and everyone ran out of the house to celebrate, he must take pictures of strangers hugging each other.
赵彬期待的那天，大概不会太远了。
Zhao Bin looked forward to that day, probably not too far.
这场疫情过去以后，人们或许会发现，每一点改变，都是为了未来。
When the epidemic is over, one may find that every change is for the future.
推荐阅读▼国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升市委书记“下馆子”的深意揍他可以。
Why don't we go over to the next few weeks = Shall we go over to the next few weeks = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情这57天里，中国发生了哪些不易察觉的变化？。
What undetectable changes have taken place in China over the past 57 days?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情这57天里，中国发生了哪些不易察觉的变化？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What undetectable changes have taken place in China in the past 57 days?;
var msg_desc = "每一颗齿轮，仍在转动。
var msg _ desc = & quot; every gear is still turning.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '市委书记“下馆子”的深意',。
At & quot; party secretary & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '市委书记“下馆子”的深意',。
At & quot; party secretary & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
