340万份「不计成本」的礼物。
3.4 million "no cost" gifts.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
在疫情期间，仅仅是湖北省妇幼保健院40天就有2207个新生儿降生。
During the epidemic period, 2,207 newborns were born in the Hubei province Maternal and Child Health Center alone in 40 days.
日均分娩量77人，最多的一天有108个新生儿来到这个世界。
The average number of births per day was 77, with 108 newborns coming into the world on the largest day.
这些与疫情同时到来的孩子们，面临了新生儿物资的紧缺，和被感染的风险。
The children, who came with the outbreak, are facing shortages of supplies for newborns and the risk of infection.
文｜许言编辑｜桑柳复工路漫漫「爸爸，这个可不可以给湖北的小朋友？」1月底的某天，许清池陪儿子玩耍时，儿子突然向他抬起小手，紧紧攥着最爱的小机器人玩具。
+ yeg + + + + + + + + + + + + +, + + + + + + + +, + + + + + +, + +, + + + + +, + + + + + +, + +, + + + + +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +, +,
许清池不知道儿子的小心思是什么时候萌发的，他猜想，每天电视里滚动播出的新闻，戴着口罩在街上匆匆行走的大人，让7岁的孩子也注意到了外面正在发生的疫情。
Xu Qingchi didn't know when his son's little thoughts came into being. He guessed that the daily television news, the adults running through the streets wearing masks, alerted the seven-year-old to what was happening outside.
他想到在湖北的孩子们。
He thought of the children in Hubei.
刚刚落地的，尚在襁褓被迫隔离的，他们还好吗？生活用品还够用吗？许清池的担忧并非没有道理。
Just landed, still in swaddling clothes forced isolation, how are they? Is the daily necessities enough? Xu Qingchi's worries are not unreasonable.
在疫情期间，仅仅是湖北省妇幼保健院40天就有2207个新生儿降生。
During the epidemic period, 2,207 newborns were born in the Hubei province Maternal and Child Health Center alone in 40 days.
日均分娩量77人，最多的一天有108个新生儿来到这个世界。
The average number of births per day was 77, with 108 newborns coming into the world on the largest day.
这些与疫情同时到来的孩子们，面临了新生儿物资的紧缺，和被感染的风险。
The children, who came with the outbreak, are facing shortages of supplies for newborns and the risk of infection.
许清池决定，要为湖北的孩子们做点什么。
Xu Qingchi decided to do something for the children of Hubei.
作为恒安国际集团有限公司分管运营的副总裁，他决定发动旗下婴幼儿品牌「安儿乐」捐赠纸尿裤给湖北宝宝。
As vice president of operations of Heng An International Group Co. Ltd., he decided to launch a donation of paper diapers to Hubei Babies.
他想，这是一个国产品牌在此刻应有的担当。
This, he thought, was the role a domestic brand should play at the moment.
许清池恰逢春节假期，物流、生产线、沟通渠道都停滞了。
Xu Qingchi coincides with the Spring Festival, logistics, production lines, communication channels have stagnated.
发动全国经销商，只锁住了少量库存，顾不了那么多，许清池先派人把现有的物资往湖北运送。
Launching national dealers, only locked a small number of stocks, can not take care of so much, Xu Qingchi sent people to the existing supplies to Hubei.
还得想办法，紧急复工生产是眼下唯一的选择。
Still have to find a way, emergency resumption of production is the only immediate option.
1月30日，安儿乐位于福建晋江安海镇的纸尿裤工厂开工了。
On Jan. 30, a paper diaper factory in Anhai, Jinjiang, Fujian, opened.
生产公司的总经理庄鸿义有些担忧，这一天，复工率只有20%。
Zhuang Hongyi, the general manager of the production company, is worried, with only 20% restarting work that day.
人，是面临的第一个难题。
Man is the first problem we face.
安儿乐生产公司60%员工来自福建省外，贵川渝豫尤其多。
Anle production company 60% of the staff from Fujian Province, especially Yuyu Guichuan.
按往年状况，公司考虑外省员工回家一趟不容易，会放满15天假期，让大家元宵过后再返回。
As in previous years, it is not easy for companies to consider returning to their provinces. They will have 15 days off to return after the Lunar New Year holiday.
今年为了加紧捐赠，公司通知正月初六省内员工先返工。
To step up donations this year, the company informed six provincial employees to rework early January.
但省内路途也不好走，到处封村封镇，不少员工接到通知后花了5天时间才到达厂区。
But it is not easy to travel to the province, closed the village everywhere, many staff members were informed that it took five days to arrive at the plant.
庄鸿义皮肤黝黑，标准国字脸。
Zhuang Hongyi has dark skin and standard Chinese characters.
他闽南腔很重，掌握了福建人发音hf不分的精髓，每句话结束还会拖出个颇有力度的尾音「吼」。
He has a strong accent in the south of Minnan. He has mastered the essence of the Fujian people's pronunciation.
他初五就回到工厂，复工从搬货开始。
He returned to the factory on his fifth day of junior high and resumed work.
1月29日，距离复工还不到24小时，安儿乐的捐赠已经开始。
On 29 January, less than 24 hours before the resumption of work, donations from Ankle began.
库房里500箱纸尿裤将要运往湖北。
500 cartons of diapers are to be shipped to Hubei in the warehouse.
疫情期间找不到专业物流公司，庄鸿义就组织起几个留守厂房的值班人员自己搬货。
During the epidemic period could not find professional logistics companies, Zhuang Hung-yi on the organization of several left-behind factory staff to move their own goods.
那天的场景，回忆起来有些「狼狈不堪」。
The scene of that day was a bit "flummoxed" in retrospect.
大门保安都被拉来了，一群男孩女孩跟着他满厂区跑，找液压车，找平板车，拽着电梯门，几个人把成箱的纸尿裤拖着、推着、扯着弄进电梯。
The gate guards were pulled in, and a group of boys and girls followed him around the factory looking for a hydraulic car, a flatbed truck, a towing elevator door, and several people towing, pushing and pulling boxes of diapers into the elevator.
有人在仓库二楼朝楼下喊，有人在接货的底楼往上望，蚂蚁搬家似的，一点一点地挪。
Someone was shouting downstairs on the second floor of the warehouse. Someone was looking up from the bottom floor, the ants were moving, little by little.
庄鸿义一直担心，晚一分钟，也许这批纸尿裤就没办法准时上路。
Zhuang has been worried that one minute later, maybe the paper diapers could not be on time.
11个人，500箱货物，他们搬到暮色降临。
Eleven people, 500 cases of cargo. They moved in the twilight.
开始生产时，庄鸿义和工人们面临了远远超出了预想的困难。
When production began, Zhuang Hung-yi and the workers faced difficulties far beyond expectations.
无纺布是纸尿裤制造最重要的原材料。
Nonwoven fabric is the most important raw material for making diapers.
特殊时期，大部分无纺布被征用去做了口罩，剩余的能够提供给工厂的无纺布因为物流延缓原因，难以准时达到。
Special period, most non-woven cloth was requisitioned to make masks, the remaining can be supplied to the factory because of logistics delays, it is difficult to achieve on time.
同时，无纺布的价格还在不断翻倍上涨，重重困境造成了一场「原料危机」，但许清池告诉生产公司，要「不计成本」地生产下去，「一切为了宝宝」。
Meanwhile, the price of non-woven fabrics continues to double, causing a "raw material crisis," but Xu told production companies to "do it without cost," "everything for the baby."
他们找到了一种费力但有效的办法：频繁换号。
They found a laborious but effective way: change their numbers frequently.
纸尿裤有尺码，从小码到大码，对应的原材料规格也不一样。
Paper diapers are available in sizes from small to large, and the corresponding raw material specifications are not the same.
大码生产线上的原材料可以替换成中码和小码的，中码纸尿裤没有材料时，就让大码的生产线切换成中码进行生产。
Raw materials on large production lines can be substituted for medium and small size, and large size production lines can be switched to medium size when there is no material for them.
为了能够给宝宝们提供更全尺码的纸尿裤，平衡每一款纸尿裤的数量，产品规格不同的生产线也需要进行换号。
In order to provide the baby with more size paper diaper pants, balance the quantity of each type of diaper pants, different product specifications of the product line also need to be changed.
纸尿裤生产线换号的艰难，线长郑佳龙最清楚。
Paper diaper production line change the difficult, line length Zheng Jialong the most clear.
1995年出生的他管理着4个操作工、1个设备作业员、1个设备技术员，以及7个包装工人。
Born in 1995, he managed four operators, one equipment operator, one equipment technician and seven packers.
他时刻盯着每一台机器的生产状态，一点脏污和滴胶，他都会迅速地去清理，尺寸上的偏差他肉眼就能识别出来。
He kept an eye on the state of production of every machine, a speck of dirt and glue, and he would quickly clean it, and the deviation in size would be discernible to his naked eye.
每一次换号，都需要花费8个小时以上。
Each change of name takes more than eight hours.
全线机器停机、检测、调试。
All line machine downtime, testing, debugging.
为了防止出错，要把原本的原材料、包装箱退出车间，清空车间，再进行新一批的材料进场、领料，每一个弧形刀零件也要更换、检测。
To prevent mistakes, the original raw materials, packing out of the workshop, empty the workshop, and then a new batch of materials into the field, materials, every arc-shaped knife parts should be replaced, testing.
因为返工问题，这段时间，一条生产线上的工人都是临时搭配，中间的磨合让换号变得更加困难。
Because of the rework problem, the workers on a production line were all temporary, and the wear in the middle made it more difficult to change the name.
8小时，是所有人的速度极限，但同时，8个小时，一条生产线就可以生产1000件纸尿裤。
Eight hours is the speed limit for everyone, but at the same time, a production line can produce 1,000 diapers in eight hours.
换号代表着巨大产能的损耗、人员的浪费以及工人们指标考核的影响。
The change represents the depletion of huge production capacity, the waste of personnel and the impact of the assessment of workers' indicators.
仅仅2月份，全厂总共换号32次，被迫流失了32000件纸尿裤。
In February alone, the factory changed 32 times and was forced to lose 32,000 pieces of diapers.
庄鸿义和郑佳龙想，还是得牺牲些东西。
Zhuang Hung-yi and Zheng Jialong thought that something would have to be sacrificed.
包装则是让人头疼的最后一关。
Packing is the last hurdle.
物流原因导致大量包装袋送不过来，加上厂里包装组的员工大多来自省外，还在复工路上，导致包装组跟不上前方生产线上源源不断的纸尿裤。
Logistical reasons led to a large number of bags not delivered, plus the packaging team in the factory mostly from outside the province, but also on the way back to work, resulting in packaging line can not keep up with the line in front of the endless diapers.
在漫长的协调中，生产公司摸索出「最好的节奏」。
In the long process of coordination, the production company gropes out the "best tempo."
原本8小时三班倒的制度，调成了12小时两班倒，利用有限的员工填满所有的生产时间，让产能最大化。
The eight-hour three-shift system has been converted into 12-hour double shifts, using limited staff to fill all production time and maximize capacity.
星期天的夜晚则全部停工，让机器保养修复，也让工人得以放松。
All Sunday nights were shut down, allowing machines to be repaired and workers relaxed.
那是疫情最紧张的一段时间，周边大部分工厂还没有开工，街边原本有热闹的小吃叫卖，这时空空荡荡。
It was the height of the epidemic, when most of the surrounding factories had not yet begun and the busy street hawking was empty.
安儿乐的工人们忙碌整整一周，终于在周日的晚上能守在宿舍，看看新闻，玩玩手机。
Having been busy for a whole week, the Amway workers were finally able to stay in their dormitories on Sunday nights, watch the news and play with their mobile phones.
他们知道，自己正在为抗击疫情做出贡献。
They know that they are contributing to the fight against the epidemic.
生产线员工共同奔跑这次回厂，郑佳龙发现工人们有点不一样了。
Production line staff running together this time back to the factory, Zheng Jialong found that the workers are a bit different.
过去复工第一天，同僚们很容易没精打采。
It was easy for colleagues to slouch on the first day of work.
郑佳龙说，像小时候开学第一天，很少有人能迅速调整状态。
'Like the first day of school, very few people adjust quickly, 'Mr. Zheng says.
但这回，他发觉每个人跟打了鸡血一样。
But this time he found out that everyone was fighting chicken blood.
进了车间，什么也不用说，工人们立刻开始抹抹擦擦，保养机器，清洁设备。
On entering the workshop, it was needless to say that the workmen immediately began to wipe and wipe, maintain the machinery, and clean the equipment.
按过往的经验，不熟悉的工人组合几乎没办法在8小时里顺利完成一次生产线换号，但他们做到了。
In the past, an unfamiliar group of workers could barely make it through a line change in eight hours, but they did.
郑佳龙没有主动去问，却明显感到工人之间萦绕着一股特别的氛围，「我本来想说些鼓励的话，后来发现根本不用说，都在心里。
Zheng Jialong did not take the initiative to ask, but clearly felt that there was a special atmosphere among the workers. "I wanted to say something encouraging, but I found it all in my mind.
」郑佳龙说。
"said Zheng Jialong.
家人也很支持他们。
Their families are supportive, too.
郑佳龙不是安海镇本地人，初六接到复工通知，当时，通往安海的动车、大巴全部停运，是家里长辈开车把他送到了厂区门口。
Zheng Jialong is not a native of Anhai town. He was informed of the resumption of work on June 6. At that time, all trains and buses to Anhai were out of service.
没有担心，家人觉得他在厂子里更安全。
No worries. His family thinks he's safer in the factory.
复工之前，许清池就再三嘱咐，一定要做好工人们和厂区的疫情防控，只有保护好自己，才有机会把更多的物资送往疫区。
Before returning to work, Xu Qingchi repeatedly instructed that we must do a good job in the prevention and control of workers and factories, only to protect themselves, only have the opportunity to send more supplies to epidemic areas.
这里每天都发放免费的口罩，宿舍、食堂、车间到整个厂区，每24小时进行两次全面消杀。
Free face masks are distributed every day throughout the area, including dormitories, canteens and workshops, and are eliminated twice every 24 hours.
安儿乐作为日用卫生产品，车间消毒本就极为严格。
As a daily health product, the workshop disinfection book is very strict.
疫情期间，一个工人更是要经过十几道查验消毒工序才能站到机器前。
During the epidemic period, a worker has to go through more than a dozen disinfection procedures to stand in front of the machine.
因为隔离，进入工厂，就不要想着外出了——每个人心里都做了这样的准备。
As a result of isolation, into the factory, do not think of going out - everyone has made such preparations in their hearts.
疫情改变了每个人的日常生活，以往，庄鸿义形容，食堂菜色「很杠杠」，排队打饭的人站不下脚，大家尤其喜欢围坐一起，边吃边聊。
The epidemic has changed everyone's daily life. In the past, Zhuang Hongyi described the cafeteria as a "bar" where people could not stand on their feet. People especially liked to sit around and talk while eating.
复工之后，庄鸿义宣布菜色减半。
When work resumed, Chuang Hung-yi halved his food.
「怕员工去挑，选择盯那个红烧肉还是盯那个鸡腿，总是要逗留。
"Fear of staff to pick, choose to stare at the red meat or the drumstick, always stay.
」疫情中，员工们已经习惯了打上饭菜就走。
"In the midst of the epidemic, employees are used to walking away from home after a meal.
食堂的桌位也重新布置过，安全引导员一直巡视，劝大家分开坐。
The dining room table has also been rearranged, the safety guide has been on the tour, advised everyone to sit apart.
车间大楼和生活区的直线距离只有四十米，工作时间被拉长，活动区域在缩小，他们每天睁眼便是洗漱、吃饭、上车间；12小时后，下车间、吃饭、洗漱、睡觉。
The direct distance between the workshop building and the living area is only 40 metres, the working hours are lengthened and the area of activity is shrinking. Every day they open their eyes to wash, eat and go to the workshop; after 12 hours, they go to the workshop, eat, wash and sleep.
两班倒的工作制让每个24小时清晰且单调，郑佳龙和他的搭档们就这么度过了40多天。
With two shifts that make each 24-hour shift clear and monotonous, Zheng and his partners spent more than 40 days.
陪伴他们最多的是镇上日日响着的防疫广播。
They were accompanied most by the daily cordon sanitaire in the town.
广播先用闽南语放一遍，再用普通话放一遍。
The radio is broadcast first in Minnan and then in Mandarin.
「大家再挺几天吼，牛肉羹、肉粽、菜粿、蚵仔煎，都可以吃到啦！」工人们更愿意听闽南语的广播，循环播放的当地美食，成为隔离日子中美好的寄托。
"We can eat beef soup, beef soup, rice dumplings, oyster omelet, omelet, omelet, etc." The workers preferred to listen to Minnan broadcasts and recycle local food to make it a good place to live in isolation.
这是一段特殊的时光。
This is a special time.
郑佳龙想，在安儿乐工作两年，难得有这样与工人们时时刻刻待在一处的机会。
Zheng Jialong thought that two years of working at Anle would be a rare opportunity to stay with the workers.
他25岁，泉州出生，毕业前，学校里举办了恒安的招聘会，他兴冲冲地去了，顺利入职。
He was 25 years old, Quanzhou was born, before graduation, the school held a permanent job fair, he excitedly to go, smooth induction.
说到纸尿裤，他立刻的联想就是「安儿乐」。
When it comes to diapers, his immediate association is "Erin Le."
与公司的连接，庄鸿义体会得更深。
Connection with the company, Zhuang Hung-yi felt more deeply.
因为这份工作，他在安海镇成了家。
Because of this job, he became a family in Anhai.
他记得，1997年，他第一次来到安海镇，这里的居民也许不知道五里桥，不知道紫帽山，但没有人不知道「恒安」。
He recalled that in 1997, he had first come to Anhai town, where the inhabitants might not know WuLi Bridge or Zimao Mountain, but no one knew "Heng An."
1997年，也是安儿乐成立的第二年。
In 1997, it was also the second year since Anle was founded.
大学专业是机电一体化的庄鸿义，觉得没有比这里更适合自己的地方，「安儿乐，这名字一听就觉得舒服。
University majors are mechatronics integration of Zhuang Hung-yi, feel there is no better place than here, "Anle Le," the name feels comfortable to hear.
」当时国内市场很少有公司做纸尿裤，更不要说国产自主品牌，庄鸿义因此相信，自己做的是一件非常先锋的事。
At that time, few companies in the domestic market made diapers, let alone homemade brands. Zhuang therefore believed that he had done a very pioneering job.
这23年中，他既是安儿乐的生产者，也是使用者。
For 23 years, he was both a producer and a user of Enjoice.
他的孩子一直用安儿乐纸尿裤，「这还用选择吗？」他说。
His children have been using amusing diapers. "Is that a choice?" he said.
这种与品牌强烈的、紧密的连结感，一代一代传承了下来。
This strong, close sense of connection with the brand has been passed down from generation to generation.
庄鸿义发现厂里青年的身上，也有这种特质。
Zhuang Hung-yi found this trait in the young people in the factory.
公司里有个女孩，怀孕五六个月了，复工第一天到厂里上班。
There was a girl in the company who was five or six months pregnant and returned to work on her first day at work.
她负责的是最为繁杂的调配物流、原材料订单处理的工作。
She is responsible for the most complicated logistics deployment, raw material order processing.
庄鸿义劝她身体要紧，但女孩还是想为孩子们做点什么。
Zhuang Hongyi advised her to stay healthy, but the girl wanted to do something for her children.
女性占据了安儿乐员工数的一半，占总数六成的省外员工中，大部分是女性，她们主要负责的都是包装、检验等精细活儿。
Women account for half of all employees in the province and 60 per cent of those working outside the province. They are mainly responsible for the delicate work of packaging, inspection and so on.
复工期间，郑佳龙这样的线长更加意识到了「她们」的重要。
During his return to work, a line-length like Zheng Jialong became more aware of the importance of "them."
庄鸿义记得，2月上旬是人员分配最困难的时候，订单源源不断，捐赠数额也在增加，包装人员班次却撑不起生产线的负荷，有工人想来，被家人劝阻。
Zhuang remembered that the first half of February had been the most difficult time for the distribution of staff, that orders had been kept flowing and donations had increased, that the packing staff could not support the load on the production line and that some workers wanted to be discouraged by their families.
觉得有点不好意思，但庄鸿义还是一个一个打电话跟员工家属沟通。
Feel a bit embarrassed, but Zhuang Hongyi or a call to communicate with the family.
当知道复工的产品将送往疫区，家人都松了口。
Family members were relieved to know that the products would be sent back to work in the affected areas.
第二天，包装人员足足增加了一整个班次。
The next day the packing staff added a full shift.
「他们知道多一个人对车间意味着什么，都赶了回来。
"They knew what it meant to be alone in the workshop, and they hurried back.
」庄鸿义说，在安儿乐二十多年，感受最大的就是「有爱」。
"For more than 20 years, the biggest feeling is" love, "Chuang Hung-yi said.
因为有爱，安儿乐的员工们可以放弃与家人团聚的春节休假，承受不断停机换号带来的产能损耗，接受强度更大的工作要求……但是，大家还是相互信任，相互理解，扶持着度过了一次次困顿险境。
Because of love, Amelia employees can give up their Spring Festival holiday to reunite with their families, endure the loss of capacity from constant downtime, and accept more demanding work... but they still trust each other, understand each other, and hold on to each other through difficult times.
虽然经历疫情的风浪，但他们总是怀揣着对世界和生活的善意，这样的善意也自然地流露在了那些由他们制造出来的产品中。
Despite the waves of the epidemic, they have always had the goodwill to the world and to life, and that goodwill is naturally expressed in the products they make.
这也是安儿乐一直的信念，为更多孩子、更多母亲、更多家庭创造有品质且舒适的生活。
That's what Erin has always believed in, creating quality, comfortable lives for more children, more mothers, and more families.
这种信念在疫情中变得尤为强烈，大家不分你我，一起进退，只为了同一个目标——把承载了安儿乐爱心的产品尽快送往疫区，送往那些需要的人手里。
This belief has become particularly strong in the epidemic, where people, regardless of you or me, come and go together for the same purpose -- to send the products bearing the love of peace to the affected areas as soon as possible and to those in need.
所有人共同奔跑了起来。
Everyone ran together.
纸尿裤生产线爱拼才会赢2月14日，是2020年以来许清池最难忘的一天。
Paper diaper production line love to win February 14, Xu Qingchi since 2020 is the most memorable day.
那天没有玫瑰和烛光晚餐，他的情人节在等待一台口罩机。
There was no rose or candlelight dinner, and he was waiting for a mask machine on Valentine's Day.
准确地说，恒安集团所有员工都在等待这一台口罩机。
To be precise, all Hengan employees are waiting for a mask machine.
口罩机来之不易，是许清池跑了一星期、四处找人帮忙才得来的。
Mask machine hard-won, is Xu Qingchi ran for a week, looking for help around to get.
1月底，恒安集团接到政府通知，要将一些车间改建为口罩生产线，为防疫做好后援。
At the end of January, the Heng An Group received notification from the Government to convert some workshops into mask production lines to provide back-up for epidemic prevention.
没有把纸尿裤生产机器直接改装为口罩机，是为了保证纸尿裤生产线正常运作。
The paper diaper production machine is not directly converted into a mask machine to ensure the normal operation of the paper diaper production line.
正是疫情最紧张的时刻，国内所有的口罩生产设备都被政府统一调控，许清池决定出国寻找。
Is the most intense time of the epidemic, all of the country's mask production equipment has been unified government control, Xu Qingchi decided to go abroad to find.
他飞往东南亚，只要有口罩机货源消息，他就奔过去，不停地打电话，想着不磕下口罩机就不回国。
He flew to Southeast Asia. Whenever he heard about the source of the mask machine, he ran to it, kept calling, thinking that he would not return without dropping it.
因为疫情发展，大部分时间他只能守在酒店房间里，有消息了就赶去洽谈，被拒绝了就继续等待。
Because of the epidemic, most of the time he can only stay in the hotel room, news on the rush to negotiate, was rejected and continue to wait.
最终有一家可以提供。
Eventually, one will be available.
许清池回想起当年做销售员扫街的日子，这段寻找口罩机的经历，对今天的他仍然是一种磨练。
Xu Qingchi recalled the days when he was a salesman sweeping the streets. This experience of finding a mask machine is still a discipline for him today.
口罩机比他更早地回到晋江。
The mask machine returned to Jinjiang earlier than he did.
那天，原材料已准备好，几百位员工都等在工厂里，泉州海关工作人员也提前到了厂区。
On that day, the raw materials were ready, hundreds of employees were waiting at the factory, and Quanzhou customs staff arrived ahead of schedule.
2020年情人节，恒安集团的第一批口罩开始生产。
On Valentine's Day 2020, the first batch of Hengan masks will be manufactured.
14天前，没有人能想到一个国产日用品企业如此快速地支起了一条全新品类的生产线。
Fourteen days ago, no one could have imagined that a domestic commodity company had so quickly built a whole new product line.
其实，早在1月22日夜晚，旗下拥有17个卫生巾、纸尿裤等家庭生活用品专业品牌的恒安集团开始逐步复工。
In fact, as early as the night of January 22, the company has 17 sanitary napkins, paper diapers and other professional brands of household supplies began to gradually resume work.
得知公司组织捐赠，并生产口罩、防护服、消毒湿纸巾等防疫物资，便有刚刚回家才一天的工人主动要求加入复工。
Knowing that the company has donated, and production of masks, protective clothing, disinfectant wipes and other epidemic prevention materials, just one day home workers have volunteered to join the resumption of work.
有的线长就住在安海镇，得到消息，大年二十八就蹬着脚踏车匆匆跑回厂区。
Some live in Anhai town, get the news, about twenty-eight pedal bike back to the factory area.
远在湖北孝感的生产公司也在配合着这场行动。
Hubei filial piety of the production companies are also in line with this action.
恒安集团在全国第二大卫生巾生产基地就位于孝感，他们很早就在政府的允许下进行复工，五六十个工人穿着防护服在基地生产卫生巾。
Heng An Group in the country's second largest sanitary napkin production base in the sense of filial piety, they early on in the government's permission to resume work, 50 or 60 workers wearing protective clothing at the base to produce sanitary towels.
其中，恒安集团在全国仅有的两位女性线长，也站在了复工生产的一线。
Among them, Heng An Group in the country's only two women line-length, also stood in the back of production line.
从福建运过去的一批批物资到了高速口，孝感生产供应链的经理开车去高速口接货，送到疫区后，再回到城里。
From Fujian to the past batches of supplies to the high-speed mouth, filial production supply chain managers to pick up goods at the high-speed mouth, sent to epidemic areas, and then back to the city.
他告诉许清池，自己开车去接货不仅是了让捐赠物资可以最快速地到达需要的地方，也是让所有恒安人看到，疫情终将过去，我们也能回归到正常的日子。
He told Xu Qingchi that driving his own car to pick up the goods was not only a way for donations to get to where they were needed most quickly, but also for all the people to see that the outbreak would eventually pass and that we could return to normal times.
许清池觉得，正是这些工人们一人一步地释放着信心的讯号，大家互相扶持，互相支撑，才能让每一个细节环环相扣，几百条生产线在疫情中坚持了这么久。
Xu felt that it was these workers who, one by one, were sending a message of confidence, supporting each other and supporting each other in order to connect every detail, and that hundreds of production lines had survived the epidemic for so long.
这次从上到下举全公司之力奋斗的精神，许清池把它解读为闽南人骨子里的打拼敢闯，就像人们最熟悉的那首闽南歌里唱的，「三分天注定/七分靠打拼/爱拼才会赢」。
In the spirit of the whole company from top to bottom, Xu Qingchi interprets it as the brave fighting among Minnan people, just as the Minnan song is most familiar: "Three minutes is doomed / seven points is worth fighting for."
恒安集团从泉州晋江的安海镇起家。
Heng An Group started in Anhai town of Jinjiang, Quanzhou.
这是一个有着1300多年历史的小镇，与台湾金门岛隔海相望，临海有个船舶停靠的小港口，自古以来就是物流的重要关口。
This is a small town with a history of more than 1300 years. It looks across the sea from Kinmen Island in Taiwan.
许清池说，安儿乐的「安」，也是恒安的「安」。
Xu Qingchi said that the "An" of Anle was also the "An" of Heng An.
恒安集团一直在助力子品牌安儿乐的发展，对安儿乐来说，恒安集团就是背后最有力的依靠。
Heng An Group has been promoting the development of the sub-brand Aner, for Aner, the Heng An Group is the most powerful backing.
安儿乐不仅承继了恒安始终坚守品质第一的态度，也拥有作为一个民族品牌的责任与担当。
Erhu not only inherits Heng An's attitude of adhering to quality first, but also has the responsibility and responsibility as a national brand.
凭借集团的支持，安儿乐才能走自主研发的道路。
With the support of the group, Anle can take the road of independent research and development.
「安」有家国恒安的涵义，也寓意安海驶航。
"An" has the meaning of homestead, also means safe sea sailing.
恒安的LOGO就是一艘扬帆起航的小红船，「远洋外出，坚持打拼的生活，对我们的影响非常深远。
The LOGO of Heng An is a small red ship sailing under sails. "It has a profound effect on us to go out into the sea and live a hard life.
」许清池说。
"said Xu Qingchi.
2020年，也是恒安集团成立35周年。
The year 2020 will also mark the 35th anniversary of the establishment of the Heng An Group.
许清池说，和所有一线员工一起度过的这个特殊的春节假期，会长久留在所有人的记忆里。
Xu Qingchi said the special Spring Festival, spent with all front-line employees, would remain in everyone's memory for a long time.
所有人的努力都是为了一个「安」字，从安儿乐的纸尿裤生产，再到口罩防护服的防疫物资，还有恒安为湖北地区一线女性医护承包下所有生理用品的行动。
All efforts were made for an "An" word, from Amer's diaper production to the vaccination of mask suits, as well as Heng An's action to contract all physiological supplies for the first line of female medical care in Hubei province.
「大家生活不好，我们的产品卖得再好有什么用呢？都是为了家国恒安。
"It's not good for everyone. What's the good of our products? It's for the sake of our country."
」2月26日，三辆长度17米的插板大货车从晋江安海镇出发了，它们载着恒安集团安儿乐品牌向湖北慈善总会捐赠的婴儿纸尿裤和孕产护理用品，总价值超420万元。
On February 26, three 17-meter-long pick-up trucks carrying baby diapers and maternal care supplies donated by the Heng An Group to Hubei Charity Association, with a total value of 4.2 million yuan, set out from the town of Anhai, Jinjiang.
这些承载着安儿乐一线员工日夜赶工生产出来的纸尿裤，分别被送往了孝感、黄冈、荆州、黄石、十堰等16个城市。
The paper diapers, which carry the first-line staff of Anle, were sent to 16 cities, including Xiaogan, Huanggang, Jingzhou, Huang Shi and Shiyan.
其实，除了婴儿纸尿裤，早在大年初二，恒安集团已经开启了对防疫一线的捐赠。
In fact, in addition to baby diapers, as early as the second year of the Lunar New Year, Heng An Group has opened the first line of epidemic prevention donations.
截至目前，恒安集团已累计捐赠物资和现金2000余万元，消毒湿巾、卫生巾、防护服、萌睡裤、消毒洗手液、成人纸尿裤、婴儿尿裤、生活用纸等产品快速送抵防疫一线，投入到紧急的防疫一线需求。
So far, Hengan Group has accumulated over 20 million yuan in donated materials and cash, disinfecting wet wipes, sanitary napkins, protective clothing, Meng pajamas, disinfectant hand sanitizers, adult diapers, baby diapers and paper for daily use.
值得一提的是，这次安儿乐捐出的纸尿裤大部分都来自于旗下高端品牌「奇莫」。
It is worth mentioning that this time Amer donated most of the diaper pants from its high-end brand "Qimo."
奇莫的无纺布是特柔的，原材料需要定制。
Chimo's non-woven fabric is very soft, raw materials need to be customized.
许清池说，疫区的孩子，接触以及感染病毒的可能性要高一些，防护措施一定要做好。
Xu said children in affected areas are more likely to be exposed to and infected with the virus, and that protective measures must be taken.
这些材质更为柔软、过敏性更低的产品更加适合他们。
These softer, less allergenic products are better suited to them.
这与24年来，安儿乐在制造工艺上始终秉持行业底线、坚持不用回收纸浆的初心相同，品质永远第一位。
This is 24 years, Anerole in the manufacturing process always adhere to the industry bottom line, insist on not recycling pulp of the same initial heart, quality will always be the first.
「没有考虑太多，只希望每一个妈妈都能放心。
"Not to think too much, just hope that every mother can rest assured.
」许清池说。
"said Xu Qingchi.
口罩机解决后，许清池每天都准时来到公司。
After the mask machine solved, Xu Qingchi came to the company on time every day.
日子和平时并无不同。
There is no difference between peace and peace.
他最喜欢还是上网看用户评论。
His favorite thing is to read user reviews online.
打开各大官方旗舰店，一页一页地翻看用户对安儿乐纸尿裤的评价，好的坏的他都默默记下，有时候还会特意与个别用户进行互动。
Open the major official flagship stores, page after page of users of the evaluation of the paper diapers, good and bad he quietly notes, and sometimes deliberately interact with individual users.
他看重年轻妈妈们的感受。
He valued the feelings of young mothers.
纸尿裤是种「母婴相连」的产品，与其他卫生用品不同，它的消费群体更迭迅速，购买活跃时间只有三年。
Diapers are "mother-to-child" products. Unlike other hygiene products, their consumption groups change rapidly, with only three years of active purchasing time.
意识到这点，除了保证产品质量外，安儿乐也一直在坚持走进年轻妈妈群体。
Aware of this, in addition to ensuring the quality of products, Erle has also insisted on entering the group of young mothers.
设计团队平均年龄只有27岁，他们要做的是让设计年轻化、时尚化，持续地打动消费者。
The average age of the design team is 27, and what they have to do is to keep the design young, stylish and continue to impress consumers.
也是在这场疫情救援互助中，许清池更加确信了用真诚打动妈妈们的重要性。
Also in this outbreak of mutual assistance, Xu Qingchi more convinced of the importance of sincere touched mothers.
他希望安儿乐捐出去的纸尿裤不只是「能用的」、「救急的」，而是要让妈妈们一摸就知道，这是细腻、柔软的安儿乐纸尿裤，是自主研发的国货品牌。
He wants Amer to donate diapers not just "functional" and "emergency", but to let mothers know at a glance that this is a delicate, soft angelic diapers, is a home-made brand.
「疫区人民可能对纸尿裤很急需，觉得有用就行。
"People in affected areas may be in urgent need of diapers and may find them useful.
但我们不能这么想，我们要让他们感觉，哎呀，真好，想起纸尿裤，就会想起安儿乐，想起恒安，想起国货，想起是我们每个国人都在努力为抗击疫情做点什么。
But we can't think of it that way. We have to make them feel, alas, nice, when I think of diapers, I think of Erin, of Heng An, of Chinese food, of what each of us is trying to do to combat the epidemic.
不仅让妈妈和孩子们觉得有东西可用，还要用得好，用得舒服。
Not only do mothers and children feel that they have something to use, but they also need to use it well and comfortably.
我们是怀着这样的心情，日以继夜地坚持着，生产着。
We are in such a mood, day and night persevering in production.
」许清池说。
"said Xu Qingchi.
送往疫区的纸尿裤没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Have you seen enough diapers sent to the affected areas? There are more wonderful stories waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
340万份「不计成本」的礼物。
3.4 million "no cost" gifts.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "340万份「不计成本」的礼物";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; 3.4 million "reckless" gifts;;
var msg_desc = "为了同一个目标，所有人都奔跑了起来。
var msg _ desc = & quot; all ran for the same goal.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
