春天来了，“韭菜”熟了？。
Spring is coming, "leek" ripe?
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
从1月等到3月，路上的花慢慢开了，有时候能闻到白玉兰的清香，春天已经到了，但全球的疫情还没有随着温度的升高衰落下去——法国有男人购入了满满一购物车的法棍，意大利的居民被隔离在家只能在窗台上唱歌剧，有人在微博上分析今天又确诊了特朗普身边的哪一个官员，Instagram上面罕见地出现了卫生纸的广告……情绪有时候就是如此隐形，但它依然在另外一种介质上被反映出来，那就是金融市场。
From January to March, flowers on the road spread slowly, and sometimes the scent of white magnolia could be smelled. Spring has come, but the global epidemic has not abated as temperatures rise - French men have bought cudgels filled with shopping carts, Italians have been isolated at home singing operas on windowsill, and microblogs have analysed which officials around Trump are confirmed today.
股市、金价、外汇都经历了很多年里从来没有出现的情况，3月9日，美股开盘迅速就触发熔断，这是在1997年之后首次触发熔断机制。
Stocks, gold and foreign exchange have all experienced conditions they haven't seen for many years. On March 9, U.S. stocks quickly triggered meltdowns, the first since 1997.
直到北京时间今天凌晨零点56分，美股经历了本月的第四次熔断。
U.S. stocks suffered their fourth meltdown this month at 0: 56 a.m. Beijing time.
A股也难免受到影响，在3月11日迎来了一次明显下跌。
A-share stocks were also unavoidably affected, with a marked drop on March 11.
有跌落的地方就有上升，有危险的地方就有机会，这个春天是一个财富在飞速周转的季节，货币以人们常规不能想象的速度在被得到和被失去。
Where there is a drop there is a rise; where there is danger there is a chance; this spring is a season when wealth is spinning rapidly, money is being acquired and lost at a rate that people cannot normally imagine.
在杠杆率高的虚拟货币和期权圈子里，可能20分钟就足够让一个人经历暴富和失去一切的完整过程。
In the highly leveraged world of virtual money and options, perhaps 20 minutes is enough for a person to experience the entire process of getting rich and losing everything.
有人说自己坐在家里，资产就像水分一样蒸发。
Some people say they sit at home and their assets evaporate like water.
那些数字的背后，是一个个具体的人和他们如坐过山车一样的悲喜。
Behind those numbers, there were specific people who were as happy as they were on the roller coaster.
文 |马拉拉编辑| 萧祷运营|肖睿“赚钱之后我辞职了，但是”阿苗 男 A股我2015年毕业之后就一直在业余炒股，当时是从家里拿了5万块入市的。
Rita Lau & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
这几年里经历了不少大落，比如2016年1月4日我生日，那时候A股还有熔断的机制，当天就熔断了两次，那是我这辈子印象最深的一个“生日礼物”。
The past few years have seen some ups and downs, such as my birthday on January 4, 2016, when the A-share melts twice that day, the most memorable "birthday gift" of my life.
没两天，1月7日上午9点58分，触发二次熔断直接停盘到休市，全天有效交易时间不足15分钟，那是证券交易员唯一一次中午就下班的日子。
Two days later, January 7, at 9: 58 a.m., triggering a direct secondary meltdown to the market, full-time trading time is less than 15 minutes, the only day when securities traders close at noon.
那次股灾持续了很久，但好在本金不多，加上我又不断逢低补仓，手里的钱慢慢地又了涨回来。
The disaster lasted a long time, but fortunately the principal is not much, and I continue to bargain, the hand of money slowly back.
股市有起伏很正常，但是我从来还没有经历过今年这种剧烈的程度，现在我本金也比较大，会有前一天可能挣了40万，第二天又亏掉20万的情况。
It's normal for the stock market to go up and down, but I've never experienced the intensity of this year, and now I've got a relatively large capital base, probably 400,000 the day before and 200,000 the next.
春节前后，人就像是在坐过山车，挣的快，去的也快，心脏受不了。
Around the Spring Festival, people like to ride a roller coaster, earn fast, go fast, the heart can not bear.
一开始，我算是一个“赢家”。
At first, I was a "winner."
1月20号的时候钟南山宣布了新冠肺炎会人传人，23号武汉封城，当时我就想如果疫情恶化，会不会其它的城市也这样。
When Zhong Nan Shan announced the start of the new crown pneumonia on January 20th, the city of Wuhan, 23, I wondered if other cities would do the same if the epidemic worsened.
那大家呆在家里能干嘛，我当时第一个感觉就是游戏，所以重仓了游戏股票。
So what can we do at home? My first feeling was the game, so I took the gaming stock.
2月3号A股开盘，第一天很多股票全跌停，我买的游戏股票还涨了5个点，第二天它涨停，我出手，就这么挣了30万左右。
February 3A shares opened, the first day of a lot of stock limit, I bought the game shares rose 5 points, the next day it trading, I shot, so earned about 300,000.
这算是我进股市以来，短时间内挣钱最快的一笔，3年的工资。
It's the fastest money I've made in a short time since I entered the stock market, three years' salary.
虽然那段时间来来回回很不稳定，有单日挣30多万的，也有第二天跌回去10多万的，但是总体来说是挣钱的。
Although that period was very erratic, with more than 300,000 a day earned and more than 100,000 falling back the next day, overall it was money-making.
以前我喜欢买一些中长股，持有一两个月，但这次我主要是走短线，操作下来，多的时候有赚到100多万，我就铁下心，和老板提了离职，他批准了。
I used to like to buy some medium-sized and long-term stocks, held for a month or two, but this time I mainly take short-term, operation down, more than a million times to earn more than a million, I firmly and my boss quit, he approved.
股市曾经被我当做过一条现有的出路。
I used to think of the stock market as an existing way out.
▲图/ 《大时代》剧照那时候我还想过要去认真学下金融，但还没有来得及想得具体，行情慢慢就开始变化了。
In those days, I thought about taking finance seriously, but before I had time to think about it in detail, the market began to change.
我重仓了一些科技股，在年初开盘的时候别的股票跌停，但科技股没有，一方面是重点发展的领域被大家看好，一方面也被各种基金重仓买爆。
I took some tech stocks and started trading early in the year when other stocks were down, but they weren't, either because the areas of focus were promising or because they were being oversold by various funds.
但是进入3月之后，疫情全球化爆发，消费市场增长放缓，再加上石油价格战的爆发，资本开始抛售全球资产避险，导致欧洲和美国的股市持续暴跌，美股连续熔断。
But after March, the outbreak of global contagion, slowing consumer-market growth, and the outbreak of oil-price wars, capital began to sell off global assets to avoid risk, causing stock markets in Europe and the United States to plummet and US stocks to melt.
倾巢之下，焉有完卵，直接导致了我资产的缩水。
Under the nest, there are eggs, directly led to the shrinking of my assets.
在提离职之后的两周，我不仅赔掉了自己的100万，甚至还赔掉了一部分家里的钱。
In the two weeks since I left office, not only have I lost a million of my money, but I have even lost a portion of my family's money.
那时候真的还挺触动的，因为我可以赔光，但不要扯到我家人，会很自责。
It really touched me at the time, because I could lose, but don't get involved with my family. It was remorseful.
最低落的那两天，人真的不太想说话，特别怕被人问起，很丢脸。
The bottom two days, people really do not want to talk, especially afraid of being asked, very humiliating.
以前我是很放松的，可能睡到十点才起床，但现在早上六七点就自然醒了。
I used to be so relaxed that I probably didn't get up until ten, but now I wake up six or seven in the morning.
睡之前看一下国外的股市，醒来再看一眼，其实我知道自己看了也没用，但就是为了让自己有个预期，可能是和精神紧张有些关系。
Before going to bed to look at the stock market abroad, wake up to take a look, in fact, I know it is useless to read, but it is to let their own expectations, may be some tension with the relationship.
我最近真的有点慌，股市不挣钱，但是也不会清仓或者这次就退出来，还是相信会好的。
I've been a bit nervous lately, but the stock market doesn't make money, but I'm not going to liquidate or quit this time, or I'm sure it will be fine.
相比于股市来说，虚拟货币和期权的波动更大，它们才算是玩心跳，时间以分钟来算。
Virtual currencies and options are more volatile than stocks, and they are just heartbeats, measured in minutes.
前两天比特币价格从5000多跌到3000多然后又涨回来到4、5000，我看到一个人从4万开始炒，不到一个小时挣了20多万，当然亏也亏很大。
The other day the price of Bitcoin dropped from more than 5,000 to more than 3,000 and then back to 4,000 or 5,000. I saw a man get fired from 40,000 and earn more than 200,000 in less than an hour.
▲图/ 《华尔街》剧照“买10克黄金，养一只电子宠物”Coco 女 黄金在去年的8月，我从朋友圈接触到了黄金理财。
Buy 10 grams of gold and have an electronic pet. "In August last year, I came into contact with Golden Finance from a circle of friends.
一个看起来不太会理财的朋友告诉我，黄金在涨价，他买了1克。
A friend who didn't seem to be very good at managing money told me that gold was going up and he bought a gram.
而且还告诉我很简单，直接可以在小程序里面买，不需要我做任何事，不需要我动任何脑子。
And I also told me that it was easy to buy directly in a small program, without me doing anything, without me having to move any brain.
黄金这个东西本身就让人觉得，很简单，对不对？所以我就先买了1克，又买了1克，总之加起来是买了5克，1克350元左右乘以5，花了2000块差不多吧，我就带着这价值2000块的黄金在最近坐了一次“过山车”。
So I bought 1 gram first, then another gram, and in all, I bought 5 grams, about 350 yuan by 5, and spent 2,000 yuan and I just took a roller coaster ride recently with 2,000 dollars worth of gold.
本来我是不怎么留意它的，我希望它变成我的存钱罐，一直存一直存，看存到啥时候变成一笔“巨款”，拿出来买个包。
I didn't pay much attention to it. I wanted it to be my piggy bank, always there, to see when it would turn into a "huge sum" and buy a bag.
我平时很热爱消费，一克克黄金的这么购入呢，可以强制我储蓄。
I usually love to spend, a gram of gold in this purchase, can force me to save.
虽然我买包不需要和老公报备，但我告诉他我要买个包，万一他不同意，我能自己买了，那么我的高兴程度就会乘以二。
Although I didn't have to report it to my husband, I told him I was going to buy a bag, and if he didn't agree, I could buy it myself, and I'd multiply my happiness by two.
最近我看得比较勤了，特别是美股熔断附近，同事们总是会讨论理财的话题，我连儿子的生日年份都记不住，没有股票，也没有基金，于是每次同事说到这些的时候，我都会去看一看我安静的黄金账户。
I've seen it a lot lately, especially around the meltdown, when my co-workers are always talking about money management, I can't even remember my son's birthday year, no stocks, no funds, so every time my co-worker talks about it, I look at my quiet gold account.
有一天，我点进去小程序，发现涨了100多块，一共才2000块钱，觉得很高兴。
One day, I point into the small procedures, found that the rise of more than 100 yuan, a total of only 2,000 yuan, feel very happy.
过了几天呢就玩出了过山车的感觉，前一天可能还是涨100多，第二天就变成了涨70多，现在已经变成了亏60多。
After a few days to play on the roller coaster, the previous day may still rise more than 100, the next day into a rise of more than 70, has become a loss of more than 60.
不过也还好，亏也就亏100多，不是什么大事。
But also good, the loss of more than 100, is not a big deal.
为了认真参与，我还定了一个提醒，黄金价格低到330了会提醒我一下，结果周一就到330以下了，我又买了5克。
In order to participate seriously, I also set a reminder that the price of gold as low as 330 will remind me that Monday will be less than 330, I bought another 5 grams.
赚了钱有时候会和同事分享，昨天赚了100块，今天赚了4块之类的，就会比较好笑。
Earned money will sometimes share with colleagues, yesterday earned 100, today earned 4 or so, will be more funny.
我没心思关心金融市场，完全不懂，就觉得黄金特别像小时候玩的电子小鸡，或者现在玩的旅行青蛙，很静态，很乖，不需要照料，偶尔去看可能还小涨一点，就像蛙寄回来的明信片。
I'm not interested in financial markets. I don't understand it at all. I think gold is especially like the electronic chicken I played as a child, or the travelling frog I play now. It is static, good-looking, uncared for, and may occasionally go up a bit, just like a card from a frog.
看到它的时候感觉很peaceful，因为有它的存在，才证明了我在理财，而理财应该是成熟人生的标配嘛。
I feel like a peaceful when I see it, because it exists to prove that I am in the financial management, and financial management should be a standard of life.
▲图/ 《华尔街》剧照“开年损失了6位数，我觉得迷茫”小琳女 A股我在新西兰上班，会把一些钱放在国内，比如半定期地买一些理财，前前后后投了40万人民币进A股，也关心汇率……我总有些不切实际的幻想，希望能够抄个底。
I was working in New Zealand and would put some money at home, such as buying some money on a semi-regular basis, investing 400,000 yuan into A-shares, and caring about the exchange rate... I always have unrealistic expectations that I can copy.
去年我是赚了钱的，契机很微妙，因为看到一条新闻说国家会重点发展某个领域，我就重仓买了相关的股票。
I made money last year, and the opportunity was subtle, because I bought the stock in question when I read the news that the country was going to focus on a particular area.
那支股票也算争气，从年中到年底一直很稳定。
The stock was also competitive and stable from mid-year to the end of the year.
大概赚了小10万块钱的时候，我心想：“哦，赚钱了，可以买个爱马仕。
At what seemed to be a small gain of $100,000, I thought, "Oh, to make money, buy Hermes.
”但当时没有买包也没有停手，我总觉得可以赚多一点，再多一点点……A股年初开盘我就一直在亏，一个多月的时间，先是之前赚的钱蒸发了，到这两天直接亏到了本钱，前后算起来得有6位数。
I always thought I could make a little more, a little more A-share opening at the beginning of the year, more than a month, first before the money evaporated, by these two days directly lost money, calculated to have six digits.
其实这种事情吧，说了也是自己心塞，别人看起来同情，但其实内心庆幸。
Actually this kind of thing, said also is own heart plug, others seem to sympathize, but in fact the heart rejoices.
我只能后悔当时赚钱的时候为什么不卖掉？其实是可以跑脱的。
I can only regret making money then why not sell it? In fact, can run off.
我有两部手机，一部上班用，一部专门用来下载炒股和理财的APP。
I have two mobile phones, one for work and one APP for downloading stocks and managing money.
以前大盘好，我下班回到家都想不起来要看另一个手机，所以等我发现的时候赚的钱已经基本赔完了，当时我还在给国内找物资、捐口罩。
The market used to be so good that I couldn't remember seeing another phone when I got home from work, so I was almost out of money when I found out, and I was still looking for supplies and donating masks in China.
本来想跑，但是新闻里看到国内疫情的向好情形，炒股的朋友也说肯定会涨，我就还想等等，这一等本金就往下掉……（A股）真是欠我一个爱马仕！止损按理来说是解脱的，就当之前是做了一场梦吧，但我把钱拿出来之后感到的却是迷茫，我不知道要把这笔钱放在哪里。
I wanted to run, but the news saw a good situation in the domestic epidemic, the stock market friends said it would certainly rise, I would like to wait... This first principal fell... (A shares) really owe me an Hermes! Stop the loss as if it had been a dream, but when I took the money out I felt lost and I didn't know where to put it.
我一个上班族不敢往上比，只能说有一点灵活周转的小钱，还是患得患失，根本不敢承受很大的风险，自己也知道承担不起。
I do not dare to go up to the top, can only say that there is a little flexible turnover of small money, or suffering losses, do not dare to bear a great risk, their own know can not afford.
把钱放在银行定期，说不定只能跑个通胀，如果中间需要周转就很亏。
Placing money in a bank for a fixed period of time can only inflate, if the need to turn around in the middle is very bad.
我也有一部分钱放在理财，去年收益好的时候每天利息能有200多，刚才我看了一下昨天的利息是45。
I also have some money on financial management, last year when good earnings can be more than 200 per day, I just looked at yesterday's interest rate of 45.
之前我还想过炒房，但是“满五唯一”出台之后，税很高，肉疼。
Before I also thought about speculation, but "five only" after the introduction of high taxes, meat pain.
还是会有炒股遗留下来的一些习惯，看新闻说油价跌了就想着如果我买一定买汽车股，但是暂时是不会再入了。
Still will have some of the habit left over from the stock market, see the news that oil prices fell thinking if I buy certain car stocks, but will not re-enter for the time being.
这个月心理失衡的时候就只能去看看那些炒股论坛里说亏了30多万的，心情才会稍微好一点，只能把那些当成做了一场梦吧。
This month when the psychological imbalance can only go to see those forums said that the loss of more than 300,000, the mood will be slightly better, can only be regarded as a dream.
▲图/ 《大时代》剧照看到减肥店就生气，因为“绝不反弹”丫丫 女 外汇我是学国际政治的，对于金融市场曾经有一点盲目的自信，觉得能预判到很多问题。
I studied international politics and had a little bit of blind faith in the financial markets and thought I could anticipate a lot of problems.
但是我的“理财事故”，也确实是因自信而起，因自信而崩。
But my "financial mishap" was really self-confidence, because the collapse of self-confidence.
进入金融市场成为一颗小韭菜是八年前了，当时我还在国外工作，笃信“你不理财，财不理你”的话术，每月开了工资就会扔出去一点点，尤其是外汇市场里，就这样有了第一桶金。
Eight years ago, when I was working abroad, I was working for Financial Markets, believing that "you don't manage money, you don't pay for it" and throwing out a little bit of it every month, especially in the foreign exchange markets, where I had my first barrel of gold.
因为关注国际政治，所以认为自己对大趋势有判断，不至于亏惨。
Because of the attention to international politics, I think I can judge the general trend and not be miserable.
2018年，意大利组阁失败，大选后几个月新政府班子依然“难产”，很快意大利就遭遇了股债双杀，直接拖累了欧元走势。
In 2018, Italy failed to form a government, and a few months after the election, the new government still had a "difficult labor," and soon Italy was hit by a double-dip stock-market debt, which directly undermined the euro.
我记得当时是一个周五，刚进入欧盘交易时段，欧元对美元的汇率“断崖式雪崩”，跌幅迅速超过100个基点。
I recall that it was Friday, just before trading in Europe, when the euro was trading at a "cliff-style avalanche" against the dollar, dropping more than 100 basis points rapidly.
就在那段时间，我做出了错误的决定，因为考虑到意大利组阁艰难，还有我自认为熟悉的背景资料——比如什么议会格局民粹化、政党格局碎片化、疑欧情绪暴涨等等，我猜还得跌，就在当时的最低点清了盘，还好本金不多，但是损失也有五位数。
It was then that I made the wrong decision, given Italy's difficult cabinet formation and the background information that I thought I knew well - such as the popularization of parliamentary structures, fragmentation of party patterns, soaring suspicion of Europe, and so on.
自此之后我就逃离了外汇市场，跑得比谁都快，甚至毫不关心，心也就不太悬着了，至于散落在其他市场的钱，我也权当没有了，偶尔打开是个惊喜。
Since then I have fled the foreign exchange market, running faster than anyone else, not even caring, and my heart is less hanging. As for the money scattered in other markets, I have no right to open it occasionally as a surprise.
那时候看过一个段子，来解释为什么金融市场总是牛短熊长，那是因为你做梦的时间永远没有上班赚钱的时候多。
That's when you read a paragraph explaining why financial markets are always short and short, because you never dream more than you dream about making money at work.
我当时活得也挺段子的，看到路边的减肥店牌子都跟着生气，因为它写了四个字，“绝不反弹”。
I lived a long time, and saw the sign of a slimming store on the side of the road followed by anger because it wrote four words, "Never Bounce Back."
也有人拉我买比特币，说保准儿升值，我没敢入手，因为翻看了一堆资料，可是怎么也不懂。
Some people pull me to buy Bitcoin, said the appreciation of the children, I did not dare to start, because looked at a pile of data, but how do not understand.
最近我问了问，原本在两个月前告诉我7000以下可以入的人，告诉我算了，等3000吧。
Recently, I asked, two months ago told me below 7000 people can enter, tell me forget, wait for 3000.
他是语音回复的，明明比我还小两岁，但是叹着气，似乎可以听出苍老。
He is phonetic reply, is obviously still two years younger than me, but sighing, it seems to be able to hear the old.
这两天看新闻，多少有一种看热闹不嫌事大的感觉。
These two days to watch the news, there is more or less a sense of excitement.
尽管如此，我被套牢的那一点点美股，已经从有机会翻身，到了一夜回到8年前的时候。
Still, the little bit of American stock I was stuck in had gone from a chance to a night back eight years ago.
▲图/ 《华尔街》剧照“有朋友12号进场，刚进去就被埋了”冷老师 男美股我是2016年开户，进入美股市场，当时是因为不定期有一些外币的收入，想要找一个地方放着，而美元储蓄利率很低，所以就准备定投一下美股，现在算起来里面有30万美金左右。
I opened an account in 2016 and entered the U.S. stock market because I had irregular foreign currency income and wanted to find a place to put my money, so I was ready to invest in U.S. stocks, which now totals about $300,000.
这笔钱不急用，因此追求长期稳健收益，就像存钱罐一样。
The money is in short supply, so the pursuit of long-term healthy returns is like a piggy bank.
美股熔断后，我有个朋友在12号进场，想要去抄底，刚好赶上连续熔断的一周，肯定是刚进去就被埋了。
After the meltdown, a friend of mine came in on the 12th, trying to catch the bottom, just in time for a week of meltdowns, and must have been buried as soon as I entered.
美股这几次熔断100%是和疫情失控有关系的，好在当时国内A股是先有了反应，在美股第一次熔断之前，我就按照当时A股的一些热点，卖掉了一部分长期的美股仓位，换成了医药和远程办公的股票，陆陆续续地调整了一些，加上从不动用杠杆，所以亏损幅度没有盘面那么大。
Before the first meltdown, I sold some of my long-term U.S. stock positions and replaced them with medicine and telecommuting stock, adding a few incremental adjustments and never using leverage, so the size of the losses was not as large as before the first meltdown.
这次的美股整体来说受损还挺严重的，标普500指数从最高点到现在算是跌了33%左右。
The overall damage to U.S. stocks was severe, with the S & P 500 down about 33% from its peak so far.
我之前定投的那些股票，平均也是20%-30%的跌幅，还好调仓及时，少亏当赢吧。
The stocks I had decided to invest in were down an average of 20% -30%. Fortunately, I was able to adjust the position in time to win less losses.
美股和A股是不太一样的，在疫情扩散到全球之前，美股已经持续增长了很多年，它是那种符合价值投资的股市，我从里面也赚到过一些钱。
American stocks are not like A-shares. Before the epidemic spread around the world, U.S. stocks had been growing for many years. It was the kind of stock market that was worth investing in, and I made some money out of it.
但是它也有一些自己的特点，比如美股AI机器人量化交易较多，突然的大跌会出现多米诺骨牌式的连锁反应。
But it also has its own characteristics, such as the U. S. AI robot quantitative trading more, a sudden plunge will have a domino-like chain reaction.
还有就是融资门槛低，融资利率也低，因此杠杆使用率比较高，赚的时候收益放大很多，但遇到现在这种极端情况，损失也同样被放大，很多账户可能被迫平仓，引起踩踏，进一步加剧了恐慌。
Then there is the low threshold of financing and the low interest rate on financing, so that leverage is higher and yields much larger when you earn, but in extreme cases like this, losses are also magnified, with many accounts likely to be forced to unwind, causing stampedes and further exacerbating panic.
未来还说不好，我感觉疫情没有控制下来，美股就还没有到底，可能比次贷危机的时候还要严重一点，至少还得几个月的时间恢复稳定。
The future is not good, I feel the epidemic has not been brought under control, the U. S. stocks are not bottom, may be a little more serious than the sub-prime crisis, at least a few months to restore stability.
我现在是在等，想要等市场情绪稳定的时候可以再继续定投。
I'm just waiting to see if I can continue to make a move when the market is in a stable mood.
▲3月18日，美股迎来了史上第五次熔断，这也是10天内的第四次熔断。
March 18, the United States shares in history ushered in the fifth meltdown, which is the fourth in 10 days.
图/ 《华尔街》剧照“心脏不太受得了”阿东 男 美股+期权我的投资组合中有波音的股票，过去的一年，波音从每股近400美金跌到了近期最低89美金，我在2016年以每股约132美金购入，波音的股价已经跌破我的购入价格，其目前的市值已经低于特斯拉了，让人难以置信。
Boeing's shares in my portfolio have fallen from nearly $400 a share to a recent low of $89 a share over the past year. I bought them for about $132 a share in 2016, and Boeing's shares are now trading below Tesla's market capitalisation, which is incredible.
▲波音公司近十年股价图。
Boeing shares nearly 10 years chart.
图/ 受访者提供3月9日第一次熔断的时候，纽交所数据流显示交易暂停，当时我还有点吃惊，因为上一次这样的情况发生在1997年。
Chart / Respondents provided a breakdown of the first trading session on March 9, and I was a bit surprised when the data flow on the NYSE was suspended because the last time this happened was in 1997.
没有人经过一周两次美股熔断，可现在它已经熔断第四次了。
No one has melted twice a week, but now it has melted for the fourth time.
我本身从事期货量化交易的工作，美股和期权是我的个人爱好。
I myself work in quantitative futures trading, and American stocks and options are my personal hobbies.
我在2016 年美股熊市入场，当时觉得标普500价格相对合理，在持续跌了三个月的负回报后，我的资本回报才由负转正。
When I entered the US bear market in 2016, I thought the S & P 500 was relatively reasonable, and it was only after a three-month decline in negative returns that my return on capital turned negative.
那时候跌得很慢，回来的也很慢，对于新手比较难熬，但投资者并没有慌。
It was a slow fall and a slow return, and it was hard on the novice, but investors were not panicking.
这次完全不一样，这两周和2016年那次比起来，只能用“更低、更快、更强”来形容。
This time it is completely different, and these two weeks can only be described as "lower, faster, stronger" than the 2016 one.
第一次熔断的时候我是吃惊，第二次熔断后我就觉得问题可能会更严重——当下我的账户从历史最高点跌落了14%，要想办法了。
I was surprised at the first meltdown, but after the second meltdown I felt the problem was likely to get worse now that my account is down 14% from its all-time high.
我通过期权交易进行对冲和获利，弥补一些损失。
I offset some of my losses by hedging and profiting from options trading.
交易期权让我更加体会到了这次强烈的波动性。
Trading options have made me more aware of this strong volatility.
有一个叫VIX的指数，是专门用来衡量期权波动性的，它在这两周达到了历史最高，就差上天了。
An index called VIX, a measure of the volatility of options, reached its highest level in history in two weeks.
本来股市已经让我觉得挺有压力的，期权这么高的波动让人真的觉得心脏不太受得了。
The stock market already makes me feel quite stressed, the option so high fluctuation lets the human really feel the heart not to endure.
我自己最近真实的情况：可能一开始收益240%，但没过一会儿便是另一种情况。
My own recent reality is that it may start out as 240%, but soon it will be the other way around.
目前的情况，许多避险资产都有反常的现象，连黄金的价格也出现了高点下降。
As things stand, many risk-averse assets are aberrant, with even gold prices dropping their highs.
原因是有些基金是带杠杆，需要追加保证金，或是购入政府债券进行担保贷款。
The reason is that some funds are leveraged, require margin calls, or buy government bonds to guarantee loans.
但是股市下跌出现流动性问题，无法追加保证金的时候就有被平仓的危险。
But there is a liquidity problem with the stock market falling, and there is a risk of being unwound if margin calls fail.
一些公司和个人急需现金，开始出售其他金融资产去补充保证金。
Some companies and individuals, desperate for cash, began selling other financial assets to replenish their deposits.
现在的资本市场就是一种混乱的情况，完全没有办法预测下一小时，甚至是下一分钟的事情。
Capital markets are a mess, with no way to predict the next hour or even the next.
▲图/ 《华尔街》剧照“我还在等着抄底”蚊子 男 港股作为两个孩子的爸爸，我炒股已经10年以上了，A股也炒，港股也炒，但是我现在主要还是在港股。
Photo / Wall Street Photo I'm Still Waiting to Copy the Bottom Mosquito Stock As the father of two children, I have been trading stocks for more than 10 years, A shares are also fired, Hong Kong stocks are also fired, but I am still mainly in Hong Kong stocks.
投资一些有前景的公司，稳定地拿到利息和分红，等股票价格高一点也可以卖掉，把这些作为工资之外应对突发情况的经济补充。
Invest in promising companies that earn a steady payout in interest and dividends and sell them when the price of a stock is high, as an economic supplement to wages in the event of an emergency.
我在A股呆过，一直坚持投资有价值的公司，但是好像不太适合A股，好一点的公司股价都太高了，还是靠短线赚钱多一些。
I've been in A-share, and I've always insisted on investing in worthwhile companies, but it doesn't seem to be right for A-shares.
我是在美股第一次熔断的时候明显感觉到不对劲的，当时我发现此前买过的一支银行股在傻傻地往下掉。
I clearly sensed something was wrong when the first meltdown in the U. S. occurred to me, when I discovered that a bank unit I had bought had fallen stupidly down.
这几年这家银行的业绩不是很好，但也不至于从40美元掉到了25美元左右，觉得问题大了，等了一天马上跑了。
The bank hasn't done very well in recent years, but it hasn't fallen from about $40 to about $25, feels big and waits for a day to run.
那一天让我亏掉了8000元，如果没有跑得亏2万多。
That day let me lose 8000 yuan, if did not run a loss of more than 20,000.
我发现人好像随着年龄的增加变得越来越容易害怕，以前年轻，只有一个孩子，自己创业、炒股，想过用这种方式去维持生活。
I found that people seem to get more and more scared as they get older. They used to be young, had only one child, started their own business and started their own stocks, and wanted to make ends meet in this way.
但后来我发现做不到，现在就一边在离家快100公里的地方上班，一边炒股，希望老了能够买上一间铺子收租。
But I found out later that I couldn't, and now I'm working almost 100 kilometers away from home, speculating in the stock market, hoping to buy a shop to rent when I am old.
不能没有钱啊，没有钱啥都怕，怕老人生病，小孩不乖，花钱的地方多，都是担心别人。
Can not have no money, no money fear everything, afraid of the elderly sick, children are not good, spend more places, are worried about others.
A股玩不溜，我不碰，现在我还剩下几万港币，准备等着，等到时候看能不能在港股抄底。
A-share play, I do not touch, now I have tens of thousands of Hong Kong dollars, ready to wait, and then see if can be copied in Hong Kong stock.
▲图/ 《大时代》剧照每人互动分享你的理财事故文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
Photo / Great Age Scene Each person interacts to share your financial story for the Daily Personage's Original Infringement Report.
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
春天来了，“韭菜”熟了？。
Spring is coming, "leek" ripe?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "春天来了，“韭菜”熟了？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Spring is here, and leek is ripe? & quot;;
var msg_desc = "四次熔断后，七个人经历的理财“事故”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; seven experienced financial "accidents" and & quot; after four meltdowns.
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
