伦敦或将封城，但英国仍保留“群体免疫”逻辑，以图避免疫情二次暴发。
London may be closed, but the UK retains the logic of "mass immunization" in an attempt to avoid a second outbreak.
孙滔。
Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
过去一天里，英国报告新增新冠肺炎病例 676 例，累计确诊病例达 2626 例，死亡人数从 71 人上升至 104 人。
In the past day, the UK reported 676 new cases of pneumonia, with a cumulative total of 2,626 confirmed cases and an increase in deaths from 71 to 104.
据英国《每日电讯报》报道，严峻的形势迫使英国政府准备出台应对新冠病毒的紧急法案，为此伦敦预计未来几天内将封城。
London is expected to close in the next few days as dire circumstances force the British government to prepare an emergency bill to deal with the new crown virus, the Daily Telegraph reported.
伦敦是英国病毒传播速度最快、形势最严峻的城市，因此也将成为第一个落实新冠紧急法案的城市。
London is the fastest-spreading and worst-hit city in the UK and will be the first city to implement the Crown Emergency Act.
预计具体措施将包括：强制关闭餐馆、酒吧、酒馆和电影院，并限制公共交通工具的使用等。
Specific measures are expected to include mandatory closures of restaurants, bars, taverns and cinemas and restrictions on the use of public transport.
尽管如此，这在程度上要比中国武汉的封城措施宽松。
Still, it is less restrictive than the closure of Wuhan, China.
实际上在 3 月 16 日，英国政府刚推出了新的 “避险” 措施，包括要求所有人群社交疏离，尤其 70 岁以上的人群要自我隔离。
Indeed, on March 16, the British government introduced new "risk aversion" measures, including a requirement for all groups to be socially alienated, especially those over the age of 70.
此前的 3 月 12 日，英国宣布从第一阶段的防堵进入第二阶段的拖延，要求出现发烧和持续咳嗽症状者在家自我隔离一周。
Earlier, on March 12, Britain announced it was moving from phase one of containment to phase two, requiring people with fever and persistent cough symptoms to isolate themselves at home for a week.
就在 3 月 16 日当天，帝国理工学院发布第九版新冠病毒传播和影响的建模报告称，考虑英国政府本周最新干预策略后，新冠死亡病例将从 25 万下降到数千到 2 万。
Just March 16, Imperial College of Technology released its ninth edition of a modeling report on the spread and impact of the new crown virus, saying that given the British government's latest intervention strategy this week, the number of new crown deaths could fall from 250,000 to 20,000.
报告题目为《非药物干预对降低新冠病毒死亡率和医疗保健需求的影响》。
The report is entitled Impact of Non-Drug Interventions on Reducing Crown Virus Mortality and Health Care Needs.
英国最新的干预措施正是基于帝国理工学院的报告。
Britain's latest intervention is based on the Imperial College of Technology report.
研究对比了延缓策略（mitigation）和压制策略（suppression），前者重点在于减缓但不一定阻止流行病的传播，而是为了降低医疗需求峰值，同时保护那些高危人群；后者是为了扭转流行病的增长态势，将病例数减少到较低水平，并无限期维持这种情况。
The study compares delay strategies, which focus on slowing but not necessarily stopping the spread of epidemics, with suppressive strategies, which aim to reduce the peak demand for health care while protecting those at risk; the latter aims to reverse the epidemic's growth, reduce the number of cases to a lower level, and maintain it indefinitely.
原中国疾病预防控制中心研究员倪大新在一篇文章中将延缓策略称为类大流感策略，以美国、法国、英国、瑞士等为代表，关键措施是重症病例的救治，目标是控制传播，延缓流行速度，减轻总体危害；压制策略称为类SARS策略，以中国、韩国等国为代表，以“早发现、早报告、早调查、早隔离、早治疗”为关键措施，目标是控制流行，彻底阻断传播，消除危害。
Ni Daxin, a former researcher at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, called the delay strategy a pandemic influenza-like strategy, represented by the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. The key measure is to control the spread of the disease.
帝国理工学院报告指出：对于有能力的国家来说，压制策略是首选，只是在许多国家，长期压制可能不可行。
According to the Imperial Institute of Technology report, repressive strategies are the preferred option for capable countries, although in many countries long-term repression may not be feasible.
对于英美而言，可考虑轻度的压制策略，要求所有人保持社交疏离，以及病例隔离和有症状的家庭隔离。
For Britain and the US, a mild strategy of repression could be considered, requiring everyone to remain socially alienated, as well as case isolation and symptomatic family isolation.
如果有必要，则需要关闭各级学校和大学。
If necessary, schools and universities at all levels need to be closed.
研究认为，英国需要抛弃 “群体免疫” 观念。
The study argues that the UK needs to move away from the notion of "herd immunity."
不过出于担心疫情反弹的考虑，报告给出了一条中间道路，即更加灵活的干预策略，而非维持干预强度不变的刚性举措，以期能避免疫情二次暴发。
But for fear of a rebound, the report offers a middle ground: a more flexible intervention strategy, rather than rigid measures to maintain the same intensity of intervention, in order to avoid a second outbreak.
（图 | 英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊）但香港城市大学传染病和公共卫生系教授陈声在接受 DeepTech 采访时表示，在英国最新举措下，如果病毒不会自动消失，那结果可能是缓慢地向群体感染免疫发展。
But Chen Sheng, a professor at the Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health at City University of Hong Kong, said in an interview with DeepTech that if the virus doesn't go away automatically, the result could be slow immunization against infection in the population.
目前多数病毒学家倾向于认为新冠病毒将与人类长期共存，那么也就是说，考虑报告给出的新方案以及目前采取的措施，英国并未彻底抛弃 “群体免疫” 观念，只是将群体免疫的速度放缓了，将疫情曲线峰值拉低，以等到疫苗或药物产生。
Most virologists now tend to think that the new cap virus will live with humans for long, so to speak, given the new approach and the measures taken, the UK has not abandoned the notion of "mass immunization" entirely, but has slowed the rate of mass immunization and lowered the peak of the epidemic until a vaccine or drug is produced.
新数据，新结论帝国理工学院的报告是基于新的疫情数据而来。
New data, new findings The Imperial Institute of Technology report is based on new epidemiological data.
从英国早期和中国、意大利的情况看，ICU 的需求是其原先预期的 2 倍之多。
In the early days of the UK and in China and Italy, the demand for ICUs was twice as great as had been expected.
最新数据显示，住院的新冠患者中有 30% 需要重症监护。
The latest data show that 30% of new crowns hospitalized require intensive care.
此前的预计是，如果英国不采取任何措施，死亡人数会高达 51 万，并且在 4 月中旬就会发生医疗系统崩溃，最终的 ICU 需求将超出上限的 30 倍以上。
The previous estimate was that if nothing was done, the death toll would be as high as 510,000 and the health-care system would collapse by mid-April, with the final ICU demand exceeding the ceiling by more than 30 times.
如果采取上周的延缓策略的话，即结合病例隔离、家庭隔离、高危人群的社交疏离（即拉大社交距离）等举措，仍然造成 25 万人死亡，医疗系统照样不堪重负。
The health-care system would still be overburdened if the strategy of last week's delay - a combination of case isolation, family isolation, and social alienation of high-risk groups (i.e., increasing social distance) - still kills 250,000 people.
这些措施的另一个结果是，仍然有大量难以获得医治的其他疾病患者。
Another result of these measures is that there are still a large number of other diseases for which treatment is difficult to obtain.
在分析了英国和美国的情形后，报告得出结论，任何一种孤立干预措施都有局限性，需要将多种干预措施结合起来才能对抗新冠病毒。
After analysing the situation in the United Kingdom and the United States, the report concludes that any isolated intervention has limitations and requires a combination of interventions to combat the new crown virus.
研究人员研究了所有 5 种可能减少感染和死亡的干预措施，包括：有咳嗽和发烧的人居家隔离 7 天；有症状出现的家庭隔离 14 天，以观察其他人是否出现症状；社交疏离，即将家庭、学校和工作中的人际接触减少四分之三；70 岁以上的人群待在家里；关闭学校和大学。
The researchers looked at all five possible interventions to reduce infection and death, including: people with coughing and fever who stayed in their homes for seven days; families with symptoms for 14 days to see if other people had symptoms; social alienation, which reduced interpersonal contact at home, school and work by three quarters; people over 70 staying at home; and closing schools and universities.
所有的延缓措施都是为了拉平曲线，减少发病率峰值。
All the postponements were aimed at smoothing out the curve and reducing the peak incidence.
图 | 英国的不同干预策略下 ICU 床位需求变化。
Changes in the demand for ICU beds under different intervention strategies in the UK.
红线是英国的 ICU 容量，黑线是未干预的情况，绿线是关闭学校和大学，橙色线表示病例隔离，黄线表示病例隔离和家庭隔离，蓝线表示病例隔离、家庭隔离和 70 岁以上老人的社交疏离。
The red line is British ICU capacity, the black line is non-interventionist, the green line is closed schools and universities, the orange line indicates case isolation, the yellow line indicates case isolation and family separation, the Blue Line denotes case isolation, family isolation and social alienation of people over 70.
阴影表示有 3 个月的干预时间，且这些干预措施保持不变。
The shadow indicates that there is a three-month intervention period and that these interventions remain unchanged.
（来源：帝国理工学院）如上图所示，病例隔离、家庭隔离和 70 岁以上老人的社交疏离是最有效的延缓策略，降低了高危人群的死亡率和占有的 ICU 资源，但仍然面临超过 ICU 资源上限 8 倍的需求。
(Source: Imperial College of Technology) As shown in the figure above, case isolation, family isolation and social alienation of people over the age of 70 are the most effective delaying strategies, reducing mortality among high-risk groups and occupying ICU resources, but still face a need to exceed the ICU resource ceiling by eight times.
图 | 英国的不同干预策略下 ICU 床位需求变化。
Changes in the demand for ICU beds under different intervention strategies in the UK.
黑线是未干预的情况，绿线是从 3 月下旬开始关闭学校和大学、隔离病例以及全社会的疏离，橙线表示包含病例隔离、家庭隔离和全社会人群疏离，红线是英国的 ICU 容量，蓝色阴影表示在 5 个月内这些干预措施保持不变。
The black line is the absence of intervention, the Green Line is the closure of schools and universities since late March, isolated cases and social alienation, the orange line represents the inclusion of case isolation, family isolation and social alienation, the red line is British ICU capacity, and the blue shadow indicates that these interventions will remain unchanged for five months.
（来源：帝国理工学院）由上图可见，如果从 9 月份放松干预措施，感染会增加，疫情在晚些时候会重新暴发。
(Source: Imperial College of Technology) As can be seen from the above chart, if the intervention is eased in September, the infection will increase and the outbreak will resume later.
也就是说，如果没有疫苗产生的话，高强度干预策略越是成功，疫情重新暴发的疫情可能性就越大，原因就是缺乏群体免疫力。
In other words, the more successful high-intensity intervention strategies are without a vaccine, the more likely it is that outbreaks will recur, owing to a lack of group immunity.
于是研究人员提出了一种中间道路，即采取适应性的干预策略，也就是社交疏离（如有必要加上关闭各级学校和大学）在 ICU 病患超过某个阈值时即开启，在降低到某个阈值时即中止。
So the researchers suggest a middle course: adaptive intervention, in which social alienation (and, if necessary, the closure of schools and universities) starts when an ICU patient exceeds a certain threshold and ends when it falls below a certain threshold.
整个期间持续实施有症状的家庭隔离，这样就能把 ICU 病例控制在容纳范围内，同时又能给予群体免疫发展的时间和空间。
Symptomatic family isolation continued throughout the period, which allowed for the containment of ICU cases while giving the group time and space for immune development.
当然，关闭各级学校和大学对延缓流行病是更有效的策略。
Of course, closing schools and universities at all levels is a more effective strategy to stave off epidemics.
图 | 更灵活的干预策略。
Figure # 124; More flexible intervention strategies.
当一周内有 100 例 ICU 病患时即开启 4 种干预措施，当一周内有 50 例 ICU 病患时即关闭 4 种干预措施。
Four interventions were initiated when 100 ICU patients were in the week, and four interventions were closed when there were 50 ICU patients within a week.
每周 ICU 发生率显示为橙色，该模型的前提是，新冠病毒的基本传播力 R0为 2.2。
The weekly ICU incidence is shown as orange, and the model is premised on a primary transmission of the new crown virus, R0, of 2.2.
模拟的结果是，蓝框为社交疏离干预的有效时间，大约占整个时间段的三分之二。
The result of the simulation was that the blue box was the effective time for social alienation intervention, about two-thirds of the time.
（来源：帝国理工学院）由上图可见，按照该策略，在疫苗产生之前，有三分之二的时间需要压制干预。
(Source: Imperial College of Technology) As can be seen from the above chart, under this strategy, two-thirds of the time was required to suppress intervention before a vaccine was produced.
研究认为，英国国情下，每周有 200 例入院的时候即可考虑采取措施。
The study concluded that in the UK, measures could be considered for 200 admissions a week.
报告并未彻底抛弃“群体免疫”报告也指出，鉴于新冠病毒是新兴病毒，其传播特性并不完全为人类掌握。
The report does not entirely abandon the idea that the new crown virus is a new virus whose transmission characteristics are not entirely in the hands of humans.
此外，非药物干预措施的效果取决于民众的配合程度。
In addition, the effectiveness of non-pharmacological interventions depends on the level of cooperation of the population.
截至目前，压制策略在中国和韩国取得了成功，但带来巨大的社会和经济代价，且可能对健康和福祉带来短期和长期影响。
So far, repressive strategies have been successful in China and South Korea, but at great social and economic cost, with possible short- and long-term effects on health and well-being.
而延缓策略无法保护那些脆弱人群，会导致较高死亡率。
And delaying tactics fail to protect the vulnerable, leading to higher death rates.
英国的最新策略不再提及 “群体免疫” 概念，即让足够多的人具有免疫力，以阻止病毒传播。
Britain's latest strategy no longer refers to the concept of "mass immunization," which gives enough people immunity to stop the virus from spreading.
3 月 13 日，英国政府首席科学顾问帕特里克 • 瓦兰斯（Sir Patrick Vallance）称，英国政府将疫情高峰延缓至夏季，希望以此获得“群体免疫”。
On March 13, Sir Patrick Vallance, the British government's chief scientific adviser, said the government had postponed its peak until the summer in the hope of achieving "mass immunization."
群体免疫论引来诸多抨击。
Group immunology drew a lot of criticism.
英国一些学者和专家发出公开信批评说，英国是“拿生命冒险”。
Some British scholars and experts have issued an open letter criticizing Britain as "risking life."
200 多名科学家写信呼吁政府采取更严厉措施应对新冠疫情。
More than 200 scientists have written to urge the government to take tougher action against the new crown.
帝国理工团队已经将英国的最新措施与中国措施相提并论，即都属于压制策略，采取了社交疏离、病例隔离以及有症状的家庭隔离，但他们认为两者区别在于英国的政策是基于自愿原则，政府需要民众的支持才可将政策付诸实践。
Imperial Engineering has compared the UK's latest measures to China's, which are repressive, with social alienation, case isolation, and symptomatic family separation, but argue that the difference lies in the fact that British policy is based on voluntary principles, and that governments need popular support to put it into practice.
但陈声认为，英国目前实际上仍然是采取了延缓策略，它可以根据实际情况加大延缓措施，最终达到压制策略的程度，而中国一开始就采取最严格的压制策略，然后根据实际情况，慢慢放松。
But Mr Chen argues that the UK is still in effect adopting a delaying strategy that can be scaled up to the point of repression, depending on the circumstances, and that China has adopted the strictest strategy of repression from the start and then relaxed slowly, depending on the circumstances.
他解释说，延缓策略不等于群体免疫概念。
He explained that delaying tactics were not the same as the concept of group immunization.
群体免疫主要是指大部分的个体都获得免疫，主要是用疫苗。
Group immunization mainly refers to the majority of individuals are immunized, mainly with vaccines.
在没有疫苗的情况下，大部分群体就得通过感染病毒而获得免疫，这样的代价太大，风险也太大。
In the absence of a vaccine, most groups would have to be immunized against the virus, which would be too costly and risky.
但在延缓策略下，“如果病毒不会自动消失，那结果可能是缓慢地向群体感染免疫方向发展。
But under the slow-down strategy, "if the virus does not go away automatically, the result could be a slow progression toward group infection immunity."
”在陈声看来，压制策略就是中国各城市过去几个月采取的策略，而延缓策略是在一定程度上有限度地隔离高危人群，减少人群接触和拉开人与人之间的距离。
According to Chen, the strategy of repression has been the one used by Chinese cities in the past few months, and the strategy has been to isolate high-risk groups to some extent, reduce crowd contact and bring people closer to each other.
值得注意的是，英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊（Boris Johnson）宣布将在本周五关闭英国所有学校的计划，直至另行通知。
Notably, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced plans to close all British schools on Friday until further notice.
这也是自第二次世界大战以来首次关闭学校。
It was also the first school closure since the Second World War.
但关校措施也留出一道口子，一些教室将保持开放，以照顾弱势学生和关键工作人员的孩子，如英国国家医疗服务体系工作人员、急救人员和送货司机。
But school closures also leave a gap, and some classrooms will remain open to take care of vulnerable students and children of key staff, such as NHS staff, emergency workers and delivery drivers.
此前有分析称，一旦要求学校关闭，多达三分之一的护士需要照看学龄儿童，这就会伤害到国家医疗服务体系，其医疗服务体系会在某个时间点不堪重负。
As many as one-third of nurses are expected to look after school-age children once schools are required to close, which could hurt the NHS, whose health-care system could become overburdened at some point.
儿童是新冠病毒的易感人群，却不易显示症状，那么他们居家隔离可能传给其祖父母，而后者是高风险人群。
Children, who are susceptible to the new crown virus but are less likely to show symptoms, may be isolated at home by their grandparents, who are at high risk.
显然，这一影响因素被纳入了即将实施的关闭学校计划。
It is clear that this impact factor has been incorporated into the forthcoming school closure plan.
更灵活的干预可试行未参与报告的英国南安普顿大学全球卫生高级研究员迈克尔 · 海德（Michael Head）认为，帝国理工学院模型的数据分析极为出彩，为英国的新举措作了清晰指南。
More flexible interventions could be piloted by Michael Head, a senior researcher on global health at the University of Southampton in the United Kingdom, who did not participate in the report.
美国也是帝国理工学院报告的研究对象。
The United States is also the subject of an Imperial College of Technology report.
在该报告中，如果不采取任何干预措施，美国将有 220 万例新冠感染死亡发生。
In the report, 2.2 million new infections will die in the United States if no intervention is made.
这个预测尚未考虑医疗资源受到挤兑的情况，否则后果会更加令人震惊。
This forecast does not take into account the run on health resources, which would have been even more alarming.
美国的新举措亦得益于帝国理工学院的报告。
The United States initiative also benefited from the Imperial College of Technology report.
3 月 16 日，美国白宫发出全国指引，建议所有人群社交疏离。
On March 16, the White House issued national guidelines advising all groups to be socially alienated.
据纽约时报，白宫应对疫情协调员黛博拉 - 伯克斯（Deborah Birx）博士回应记者提问时表示，白宫对疫情的认识改变来自英国开发的模型。
Responding to a question from reporters, the White House coordinator for the epidemic, Dr. Deborah Birx, said the White House's understanding of the epidemic was changing from a model developed in the United Kingdom.
据报告的负责人、帝国理工学院 MRC 全球传染病分析中心尼尔 · 弗格森（Neil Ferguson）称，他的团队在一周前就与白宫工作组分享了其研究成果。
Neil Ferguson, the reported director of the Imperial Institute of Technology's MRC Center for Global Infectious Disease Analysis, said his team shared its findings with the White House team a week ago.
帝国理工报告指出，在未能获得有效疫苗之前，干预措施不能放松，一旦放松的话，疫情就会反弹，而得到疫苗的时间可能需要 18 个月甚至更长时间。
Imperial Science reported that interventions could not be relaxed until an effective vaccine was available, that once relaxed, the outbreak would rebound and that access to vaccines could take 18 months or more.
据英国金融时报报道，弗格森认为，世界正面临着几代人以来最严重的公共卫生危机，在没有疫苗之前，这类干预措施的持续时间可能会长达 1 年。
According to the Financial Times, Ferguson believes the world is facing the worst public health crisis in generations, with such interventions likely to last up to a year before a vaccine is available.
报告认为，在中国，所有确诊患者都在住院治疗，那么中国实际上启动了病例隔离的策略，这就减少了家庭和其他环境中病例的继续传播。
The report argues that in China, where all confirmed patients are hospitalized, China has effectively initiated a strategy of case isolation, which reduces the continued spread of cases in the home and other settings.
此外，通过实行全社会隔离，迅速减少了新冠病毒在所有地方继续传播的机会。
In addition, the opportunities for continued transmission of the new cap virus in all parts of the world have been rapidly reduced through social isolation.
报告指出，未来几周对中国疫情的密切监测可为其他国家抗疫战略提供参考。
The report says close surveillance of the epidemic in China in the coming weeks could inform strategies to combat the disease in other countries.
报告认为，与全社会的社交疏离相比，适应性干预措施更能应对疫情的不确定性，且可以在美国的州一级采用。
The report argues that adaptive interventions are more responsive to the uncertainties of the epidemic than social alienation across society and can be adopted at the state level in the United States.
那么能不能在中国采取报告中提及的适应性干预措施呢？陈声说，这种方法风险太大，在中国应该行不通，因为中国人口太多，一旦传播起来没法控制，损失就太大了。
'This approach is too risky and should not work in China, because China has so many people that if it can't be controlled, the losses are too great, 'Mr. Chen said.
“比起刚暴发时，我们对此病毒一点都不了解，所以在当时的情况下，全面封锁应该是最保险的方法。
"We didn't know anything about the virus until the outbreak, so a full blockade would have been the safest way in the circumstances.
”-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伦敦或将封城，但英国仍保留“群体免疫”逻辑，以图避免疫情二次暴发。
London may be closed, but the UK retains the logic of "mass immunization" in an attempt to avoid a second outbreak.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "伦敦或将封城，但英国仍保留“群体免疫”逻辑，以图避免疫情二次暴发";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; London may have been closed, but the UK retains the logic of "group immunization" to avoid a second outbreak or outbreak;;
var msg_desc = "报告预测，如果没有疫苗产生的话，高强度干预策略越是成功，疫情重新暴发的疫情可能性就越大，原因就是缺乏群体免疫力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the report predicts that the more successful a high-intensity intervention strategy was without a vaccine, the more likely it is that an outbreak will resume because of a lack of group immunity.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
