特别报道 | 武汉封城之初，海外华人如何打通口罩的急客通道。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
郭苏妍 王一越等。
Wang Yi-yan waits.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
2020年1月23日以来，基金会和志愿者联动起来，散落在全球的医疗物资很快浮出水面，但如何到达焦虑的医生手中，是个复杂的过程。
Since January 23, 2020, foundations and volunteers have joined forces to bring medical supplies scattered around the world to the surface, but how to reach anxious doctors is a complex process.
2020年3月，新冠病毒在全球蔓延。
In March 2020, the new crown virus spread around the world.
记者 | 郭苏妍 王一越邓舒夏叶雨晨编辑 | 张云亭1月23日，武汉封城。
Yan Wang Yue Tang Shuxia Ye Chen Editing & # 45; & # 45; Zhang Yun Ting & nbsp; On January 23, Wuhan Sealed.
封城后，在洛杉矶从事航空货运代理工作的徐江涵逐渐摸索出了一条最快速的运输路径。
After the closure of the city, in Los Angeles engaged in air freight forwarding work Xujianghan gradually groped out a most rapid transport route.
第一批物资是从洛杉矶飞往北京清关以后，再从北京飞往长沙，最后从长沙运送到武汉当地医院的手里。
The first consignment was flown from Los Angeles to Beijing for customs clearance, then from Beijing to Changsha, and finally from Changsha to Wuhan local hospital hands.
第二批物资他选择了海南航空从洛杉矶直飞长沙的航线，再从长沙运往武汉。
The second batch he chose Hainan Airlines direct flight from Los Angeles to Changsha, and then from Changsha to Wuhan.
“结果证明这是最快速和高效的运输方式，从起飞到交付一共只花了不到20个小时。
"It turned out to be the fastest and most efficient mode of transport, taking less than 20 hours from take-off to delivery.
”他说。
'he said.
但这个过程没有想象中那么顺利。
But the process has not gone as smoothly as expected.
当徐江涵的一部分物资捐赠者填写为某个同乡会或某个微信群时，他被某家航空公司告知捐赠主体不符合捐赠人资格，无法为其提供免费运输。
When some of Xu Jianghan's material donors fill in as a local association or a group of microcredits, he is told by an airline that the donor is not eligible as a donor and cannot be offered free transportation.
他急得跟航空公司起了争执，“清华北大的校友会是人，同乡会老乡会就不是人？凭什么他们不配获得捐赠资格？”但即便他提出要自己支付这一批物资的运输费用，还是遭到了对方的拒绝，“只要不符合免费运输的要求，连订舱都不让你订。
"The alumni association of Tsinghua University is a person, the hometown association is not a person?" But even if he offered to pay for the transport of this batch of goods, he was rejected by the other side.
”当微博上刚开始有医生向社会发出物资告急的呼声，最快行动的是徐江涵这些民间捐助人。
As soon as doctors began calling for urgent supplies to the community on Weibo, the fastest-moving were private donors such as Xu Jianhan.
得益于工作经历，他成了一个小捐助团体的核心。
Benefiting from his work experience, he became the nucleus of a small donor community.
而更多像他这样的民间捐助团体在疫情初期，相对于其他渠道来说，发挥了快速高效输送物资的作用。
And more private-sector donors like him were able to deliver supplies quickly and efficiently in the early stages of the epidemic, compared to other channels.
封城这天，徐江涵发了一条微信朋友圈，表示愿意为疫情相关的捐赠物资协助提供免费跨境运输。
On that day, Xu Jianghan issued a circle of friends who expressed their willingness to assist in providing free cross-border transportation of donated materials related to the outbreak.
这很快引来了包括清华同学会、北大同学会以及各大老乡会等民间组织的问询，这些社会捐助人通过亚马逊、eBay、药店网站等渠道，采购的口罩、防护服、护目镜等医疗物资，将收货地址填写为徐江涵提供的接收仓库，再由徐江涵负责接下来的货物包装、运输航班、出境和入境清关，最后交付到接收单位手中。
This quickly prompted inquiries from civil society organizations, including the Tsinghua Tongsheng Institute, the Peking University Tongsheng Association and major township associations, which through Amazon, eBay, drugstore websites, purchased medical supplies such as masks, protective clothing, goggles, etc., filled in the receiving address as the receiving warehouse provided by Xu Jianhan, who was then responsible for the next cargo packaging, transport flights, exit and entry clearance, and finally delivered to the recipient.
满员500人的微信群徐江涵起码有10个，要应付来自四面八方的海外华人数量不等、型号各异的物资捐赠是极具挑战性的。
Xu Jianhan, a small group of 500, has at least 10, and it is extremely challenging to cope with donations of materials of all sizes and sizes from all over the world.
他位于加拿大温哥华和多伦多的仓库资源不够，只好再找了些志愿者在纽约和芝加哥等地临时搭建起几个接收仓库。
His warehouses in Vancouver and Toronto were short of resources and he had to find volunteers to set up makeshift reception facilities in New York and Chicago.
在初步整理了物资类别、数量、订单号、捐赠人信息以后，志愿者会将这些物资归类和整合。
After preliminary sorting of the material type, quantity, order number, donor information, volunteers will classify and integrate these materials.
“航空公司的仓容有限，我们要尽量控制体积，比如把物资合箱，这背后是很大的工作量，不是人们理解的送机场那么简单。
"The size of the airline is limited. We have to try to control the volume, like the packing, which is a lot of work behind it, not the airport as people understand it.
”徐江涵向《第一财经》杂志解释。
Xu Jianhan explained to First Finance magazine.
社会捐助人中拥有医疗背景的成员制作了一本分类指南，志愿者根据这份指南来分辨哪些物资是合格产品，再把医用和民用物资区分开来，并做好对应的Excel表格。
Members of the social donor community with a medical background produced a classification guide, according to which volunteers identified qualified products, separated medical and civilian goods, and prepared corresponding Excel forms.
等到徐江涵向航空公司订舱，便按照各个仓库提供的货物尺寸和重量做好航空提单，再随同这些货物运输到机场，最终交到航空公司手里，美国部分的运输才算结束。
By the time Xu Jianghan makes an air waybill to the airlines according to the size and weight of the goods supplied by each warehouse, and the cargo is then transported to the airport and finally delivered to the airline, the US portion of the shipment will not be completed.
等航班落地，由徐江涵填写的接收方湖北省慈善总会或国内的货运代理公司会接手处理国内部分的清关事宜，随后再把货物直接交付到医院手里。
When a flight lands, the receiving party, Hubei Philanthropy General Association, or a domestic freight forwarder, will take over the clearance of the domestic part and then deliver the goods directly to the hospital.
清关的过程需要填写捐赠意向书和3份表格，捐赠人的表格、受赠人的表格以及货物清单都需要捐赠人和慈善总会盖章，才符合走海关绿色通道的要求快速通关。
The clearance process requires the completion of a Letter of Intent and three forms. The donor's form, the recipient's form and the cargo manifest all require the donor's and the General Charity Association's stamp in order to meet the requirements of a Customs Green Channel.
“当所有的基金会和志愿者发动起来，散落在全球的医疗物资库存很快就浮出水面了，但这些物资怎么进入国内，是物理层面的难题。
"When all the foundations and volunteers started, stocks of medical supplies scattered around the world were quickly coming to the surface, but how they got into the country was a physical challenge.
”小鹰科技CEO张柱对《第一财经》杂志说，他曾在苹果公司、阿里巴巴和京东做过物流系统的研发。
Eagle CEO Zhang Zhu told First Finance that he had worked on logistics systems at Apple, Alibaba and Jingdong.
1月25日，张柱加入了包括壹基金在内的十几个基金会微信群，志愿为它们提供国际物资进入国内的通道设计、协助清关、保税区资源对接甚至是交付给国内物流团队等流程环节的帮助。
On January 25, Zhang Zhu joined a group of more than a dozen foundations, including One Foundation, voluntarily providing them with assistance in the design of international routes for the entry of international goods into the country, facilitating customs clearance, docking the resources of bonded areas and even delivering them to the domestic logistics team.
据张柱介绍，一般让物资进入中国有5种方式，分别是企业对企业的国际贸易、个人对个人的直邮、跨境电商、保税备货和其他（邮寄小包、买手或旅行团带货）。
According to Zhang, there are five ways for goods to enter China: business-to-business international trade, person-to-person direct mail, cross-border e-commerce, bonded goods and others.
张柱在协助基金会做物资分类时，会帮个人捐助者找到对接医院的联系方式，并确认物资的有效性及是否达到医用级别，再让对方去最近的邮局签一张邮寄单，把物资邮寄给医院。
In assisting the foundation in sorting materials, Zhang will help individual donors find contact details for docking hospitals, verify the validity and medical grade of the materials, and ask the other party to sign a mailing list at the nearest post office and mail the supplies to the hospital.
面对企业捐赠者，他则会帮对方跟相关机场与国际贸易公司做对接，协助捐增者确认对方是否具备医疗器械的经营资质，并完成通关及交税的过程。
Facing the donor, he will help each other with the airport and international trade companies to help donors confirm whether the other side of the business is qualified for medical equipment, customs clearance and the process of paying taxes.
“很多个人捐赠者会感到无力，比如个人无法直接对接海关只能走邮包，又比如国内接货的企业最少要具备二级医疗器械经营资质。
"A lot of individual donors will feel powerless, such as the inability of individuals to connect directly to customs only by parcel post, or the need for domestic carriers to have at least a second-level medical equipment management qualification," he said.
”张柱说。
"said Zhang Zhu.
而对于公司捐赠者来说，“要找到足够的物资、签合同、付定金、寻找合适的对接公司、预订航班轮船的仓位和板位，准备报关清关文件、提货运输、开设免税证明等等，没有达到一定体量的公司做起来会很难。
For corporate donors, "finding enough supplies, signing contracts, paying down money, finding the right docking company, booking seats and slots for flights and ships, preparing customs clearance documents, lifting goods, opening tax-free certificates, etc., can be difficult for companies that have not reached a certain size.
”在这个过程中，张柱慢慢搭建起了一个“联盟”，“联盟”中有诸多拥有接货资质的贸易公司、当地政府人员、航空公司、海关沟通人员、申请免税协助人员等等。
In the process, Mr Zhang has built a "coalition" of qualified trading companies, local government officials, airlines, customs communicators and tax-exempt aid workers.
他的微信群也从一开始的十几个基金会，扩充到了100多个美国网友群、加拿大网友群等500人微信群。
His microcosm has grown from just a dozen foundations to more than 100 online groups in the United States and 500 micro-credit groups in Canada.
活跃的群约有五六十个，张柱每天抱着手机睡觉，醒过来就对着几万条微信消息挨个答疑。
The active group of about fifty or sixty, Zhang Zhu every day holding the mobile phone to sleep, wake up to tens of thousands of messages one after another.
为了让对接工作变得更高效，张柱停掉了小鹰科技原本的跨境电商服务，下架了所有商品，把通道让给救援物资。
To make the docking work more efficient, Zhang Zhu stopped Eagle Technology's original cross-border business services, pulled all the goods off the shelves and gave up access to relief supplies.
30人组成的志愿技术团队在原有商城系统的基础上开发了一个C2C平台的微信小程序，这个平台负责让捐赠者与医生实现直接对接，捐赠者在找到物资后，医生会负责确认物资是否达标有效，同时，医院发布的急需物资种类也能够让捐赠者提前判断接收方的实际需求。
A 30-person volunteer technical team developed a small C2C platform based on the old Mall system, which allows donors to interface directly with doctors, who then verify that supplies are up to standard and effective, while the types of urgently needed items issued by hospitals allow donors to judge the actual needs of recipients in advance.
由于该平台已在公安部做了ICP备案，每一笔捐赠的信息和照片都会经由小鹰科技的工作人员审核之后再开放给医院。
Since the platform has been put on file with the Ministry of Public Security, information and photos of each donation will be checked by Eagle's staff before being opened to the hospital.
“北美的一批学生捐助一次大概有4吨物资又挤进来，其中医用级别的居多。
"A group of students from North America is donating about four tons of supplies at a time, most of them medical.
这样对医院来说可以尽可能避免无效捐赠，而大部分捐赠者也都能拿到签收回执。
That way, hospitals can avoid donations that aren't effective, and most donors get a receipt receipt.
”张柱说。
"said Zhang Zhu.
与此同时，借助跨境电商的方式让捐赠人与接收人直接对接几乎算得上是5种国际运输方式中最高效的通道。
At the same time, direct donor-recipient interface through cross-border electronic commerce is almost the most efficient of the five modes of international transport.
据张柱介绍，由于中国跨境电商的体量较大，大宗商品有一个专门的跨境电商通道，海关为跨境电商商品建立了专门的国际邮关——9610直邮和1210直邮，这两条通道在灾难时期会很干净，因为没有人再去购买海外的尿不湿等生活类商品，它们就变成了高速通道。
Because of the large size of Chinese cross-border electrical merchants, there is a special cross-border e-commerce channel for commodities, Zhang said. The department has set up a special international post office for cross-border e-commerce goods - 9610 and 1210 direct mail - which can be very clean in times of disaster, as no one buys daily commodities such as urine or moisture from overseas.
每逢遇到灾难，基本都会形成大宗商品的运输阻塞，飞机、火车、轮船都没有足够的备份运力来保障运输。
In case of disaster, the basic will form a block of commodity transportation, aircraft, trains, ships do not have enough backup capacity to guarantee transport.
“如果不找到一个快速通道去消化杂乱无章的捐赠行为，全都堆到大宗贸易，湖北的整条高速可能都会堵死。
"Without a fast-track way to digest all this gigantic giving, all of which is piling up in bulk trade, Hubei's entire high-speed road could be blocked."
”他说。
'he said.
1月24日晚，海关总署向武汉海关下发通知，要求设立专门受理窗口和绿色通道，第一时间为相关物资办理通关手续，对进口捐赠物资实施快速验放。
On the evening of January 24, the General Administration of Customs issued a notice to Wuhan Customs requesting the establishment of special reception windows and green channels, the first time to clear relevant materials through customs, and the implementation of rapid release tests for imported donated materials.
1月27日，按照特事特办原则，海关总署进一步印发通知明确进口疫情防控物资快速通关措施，对专门用于疫情防控治疗的进口药品、医疗器械等，包括通过各类运输方式进口、旅客携带和通过邮寄快递方式进境的疫情防控物资，做到即到即提，确保通关“零延时”，以最短的时间投入疫情防控。
On January 27, in accordance with the principle of special procedures, the General Administration of Customs issued further circulars to clarify the measures for speedy customs clearance of imported epidemic prevention and control materials, including imported drugs and medical devices specially used for disease prevention and control, including those imported by various modes of transportation, carried by passengers and transported by express mail.
许多海外民间团队几百人一起购买打包的物资通过大宗商品物流进入中国以后，反倒进不去武汉，物资通过拥有运输资质的卡车运入武汉以后，具体去到了哪些医院也很难追踪，全凭自觉。
Many hundreds of people from overseas private groups who buy packages to enter China through commodity logistics are unable to get into Wuhan. It is difficult to trace the exact hospitals to which the goods have been shipped into Wuhan through trucks with transport qualifications.
跟大宗贸易这种需要慈善总会接收证明的传统通道相比，跨境电商作为个人国际包裹直接归属中国邮政管辖，无需再向海关提供证明救灾的免税凭证，同时拥有最高的配送优先级。
Cross-border carriers are directly under China Post's jurisdiction as individual international packages, rather than the traditional route of bulk trade, which requires certification by the General Association of Charities, which no longer need to provide customs with tax-free certificates attesting to disaster relief and have the highest distribution priority.
“国际邮包涉及两国公民的通信权和外交，除非有确凿证据证明里面有违禁品，否则不可能被查扣。
"International packages involve the right of communication and diplomacy of the citizens of both countries and cannot be seized unless there is conclusive evidence of contraband in them.
而这个最后一公里的运输会由邮局负责，如果邮局运力有限，它也可以以邮局名义去征用所有可以配送的车辆。
This last kilometre of transport will be handled by the post office, which, if it has limited capacity, can requisition all available vehicles in the name of the post office.
”张柱解释说。
"Zhang Zhu explained.
不过，“就算大宗商品的干线运输、国际运输、通关速度都显著变快了，末端配送的问题还是解决不了。
However, "even if the main commodity transport, international transport, customs clearance speed has become significantly faster, the end of the distribution problem can not be solved.
”张柱发现疫情期间湖北当地政府的各项政策持续变化，先是封城，再是私家车禁行，许多救援物资都卡在最终交接的“最后一公里”。
Zhang Zhu found that the local government's policies continued to change during the outbreak, first by sealing the city and then by private cars, with many relief supplies stuck "the last mile" of the final handover.
最后一公里等到物资到达武汉后，民间捐助人们才意识到这个通关的过程还远未结束。
The last kilometer waited until the supplies arrived in Wuhan before the private donors realized that the customs clearance process was far from over.
1月27日晚，湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防疫工作例行新闻发布会。
On the night of January 27, a routine press conference was held to prevent pneumonia due to a new coronavirus infection in Hubei Province.
时任湖北省委副书记、武汉市委书记马国强强调，所有捐赠的物资一定要通过红十字会，以保证捐赠物资和资金的使用能够及时准确登记在案，统一归口，避免在疫情防疫防治过程中，由于混乱被人钻空子。
Mr. Ma Guoqiang, then Deputy Secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee and Secretary of the Wuhan Municipal Party Committee, stressed that all donations must go through the Red Cross to ensure that the use of donated materials and funds can be timely and accurately registered, unified unified, to avoid the epidemic prevention process, due to chaos was exploited.
红十字会一度成为本次民间物资运输的舆论中心。
Red Cross once became the public opinion center of this folk goods transportation.
一方面当前武汉封城封路，物资运送往往需要红十字会及接收单位同时开具证明。
On the one hand, Wuhan sealing the road, the delivery of materials often need the Red Cross and receiving units issued certificates.
这项政策是为了防止不合格的物资蒙混过关，或者口罩以捐赠的名义流入市场销售，但同时也降低了民间捐助的效率；另一方面海外物资入境需要红十字会的接收证明才能减免税收，否则口罩价格将变得远超市场价。
The policy is designed to prevent substandard supplies from being muddled or masks from being sold on the market as donations, while reducing the efficiency of private donations. On the other hand, the entry of goods from abroad requires a Red Cross certificate of acceptance in order to be exempt from taxes, otherwise the price of masks will become significantly higher than the market price.
但红十字会本身运作模式的低效不仅让许多捐赠人意识到自己的物资即便合格也无法及时到达医院手里，更重要的是，它也不能公正地分配物资到更急需的医院手中。
But the inefficiency of the Red Cross's own mode of operation has not only made many donors aware that their supplies will not reach hospitals in time, even if they qualify, but, more importantly, that they have not been able to distribute supplies fairly to hospitals that need them more urgently.
“封城后，政府对进出武汉的车辆把控很严，不能随意进出城，这导致外面的物资进不来，1月25日一早我们去送口罩的时候，很多医疗单位已经没有口罩了。
"After the closure, the government imposed strict controls on vehicles entering and leaving Wuhan, which prevented outside supplies from entering the city. When we went to deliver masks early on January 25, many medical units were no longer wearing masks.
”李青告诉《第一财经》杂志。
Li Qing told First Finance magazine.
他是武汉一家零售公司的供应商，拥有自己的车队，当地疫情变得严重后，除了向武汉运送水果、蔬菜等商品，他还自掏腰包购买口罩、防护服等物资，捐往武汉和周边城市的医院。
He is the supplier of a Wuhan retail company and owns his own caravan. When the local epidemic became serious, he paid for masks and protective clothing from his own pocket and donated them to hospitals in Wuhan and neighboring cities.
后来李青也帮助一些企业将捐赠的物资送达医院。
Later, Li Qing also helped some enterprises to send donated materials to the hospital.
至于为什么没有选择将物资给到红十字会，他的回答是“红十字会没有那么多工作人员去配送的，这是突发事件，他们的人员有限”。
As to why he did not choose to send supplies to the Red Cross, he replied that "the Red Cross does not have so many staff to deliver, it is an emergency and their staff is limited."
一些企业在捐赠医疗物资时也会尝试避开红十字会“中转”以提高效率。
Some companies are also trying to avoid Red Cross "transit" when donating medical supplies to improve efficiency.
石磊为所在的公司在7天之内采购到了几十万只口罩，并提前通过多个渠道与相关部门打好招呼，寻找愿意前往湖北“有去无回”的物流人员运输货物，将这批完全符合医用标准的物资送到了湖北省内仅次于武汉市的疫情重灾区黄冈，接收单位是黄冈市疫情防护中心。
Mr. Shi procured hundreds of thousands of masks for his company within seven days, and prematurely contacted authorities through multiple channels to find logistics personnel willing to travel to Hubei Province to "no return," and sent the full medical standard to Huanggang, the worst-hit area in Huanggang province after Wuhan.
“从找口罩到找物流再到找接收单位，并确保每一步都能按照计划进行，这个过程非常辛苦。
"From finding a mask to finding logistics to finding a recipient and making sure every step goes according to plan, it's a tough process," he says.
7天时间，我和我的同事打了超过1000个电话。
In seven days, my colleagues and I made more than 1,000 calls.
”石磊对《第一财经》杂志说，“现在去往湖北的物流，去一个少一个，因为到达湖北返程后就要直接隔离14天，司机本身也存在感染风险，‘有去无回’的，特别悲壮。
"Now the logistics to Hubei is less than one, because the drivers themselves are at risk of infection for 14 days after they return to Hubei," Shi told First Finance magazine.
”刘亚出从1月23日开始在俄罗斯采购符合医用标准的3M N95医用级别的口罩以及符合欧洲标准FFP2、FFP3的口罩。
"Liu started buying 3M N95 medical-grade masks that meet medical standards in Russia on January 23, as well as masks that meet European standards for FFP2 and FFP3.
“之前没有预料到疫情会到这种程度，更没有预料到医疗物资会瞬间短缺。
"It was not anticipated that this would be the case, much less that medical supplies would be in short supply."
”刘亚是上海俄尚贸易有限公司中俄国际物流部负责人，了解跨境物流的相关流程和手续，为了加快医疗物资到达医护人员手中的速度，她一边用私人资金全款垫付采购医疗物资的费用，一边安排物资发回，并通过自己的人脉寻找理想的接收单位。
"Liu, head of the China-Russia International Logistics Department at Shanghai-Russia Trade Co., Ltd., understands the procedures and formalities involved in cross-border logistics.
寻找物资和接收单位都是极其耗费心力的工作。
Finding material and receiving units is extremely labour-intensive.
国内和俄罗斯存在5个小时的时差，俄罗斯当地的工作节奏较慢，确认每个订单都需要大量的时间和精力。
With a five-hour time difference between home and Russia, and a slower pace of work on the ground in Russia, it takes a lot of time and effort to confirm each order.
为了确保采购的口罩都是合格的，她做了许多的功课和比对筛选，以及俄汉英三语翻译的工作。
She did a lot of homework and screening to make sure the masks were properly purchased, as well as translating Russian and Chinese into English.
在寻找对疫区有捐赠意向的企业以及慈善机构来接收口罩的过程中，她还碰到许多想拿货转手卖掉的商家，“没什么办法能让这些困难变得容易一点，只是看看武汉那些医生的照片和视频，看看确诊人数的增长数字，除了继续找，别无他法。
"There's nothing to make it easier, just look at the pictures and videos of Wuhan doctors to see how the number of people diagnosed is growing," she said.
”刘亚对《第一财经》杂志说。
"Liu told First Finance magazine.
截至1月31日，她一共向国内运送了超过5万个口罩，还有10万个不同型号的口罩订单已经下单等待收货，接收单位包括浙江疾控中心、狮子会上海分部以及部分上海市内医院等。
As of January 31, she had shipped more than 50,000 masks to China, and orders for 100,000 different types of masks had been placed awaiting orders, including from Zhejiang CDC, the Lion's Shanghai branch and some Shanghai hospitals.
一次医疗物资从采购付款、提货发出、再空运到达国内的时间，一般在3天左右，海关绿色通道开启后，整个流程变得更快了。
The time it takes for a medical item to arrive in the country by purchase payment, pick-up and re-airlift usually takes about three days, and the whole process becomes faster when the customs green channel opens.
为了让医疗机构和接收单位能够及时确认物资的资质，刘亚在采购时还会要求厂家和供货商提供包括医疗证等在内的所有相关证件，因为俄罗斯做公证件需要2到3天，耗时太久，她就在俄罗斯当地找了拥有俄汉翻译家资质（直接为公证处翻译文件资质）的朋友，及时将相关文件翻译好中俄对应版本，以免在接收过程中发生时间损耗。
In order to enable medical institutions and receiving units to promptly verify the quality of the materials, Liu will also request manufacturers and suppliers to provide all relevant documents, including medical certificates, because Russia takes two to three days to produce official documents.
对“透明度”的不信任，同样存在于民间捐助。
Distrust of "transparency" is also present in private donations.
起初李青加入了许多大大小小的民间捐助群，但最后都退群了，只对接自己团队的资源。
At first Li Qing joined a large and small group of private donors, but in the end they all retired and docked only the resources of their own team.
“觉得（大群）很复杂，不如几个朋友做点力所能及的事情。
"It's a lot more complicated than having a few friends do what you can.
”杨志新是多个武汉捐助群的群主，曾看到过一个西雅图留学生包机运送物资到武汉的消息，在他看来这很可能是一个假消息——包机需要至少300万元人民币，并且需要征得机场的同意，办理手续就需要至少15天的时间，但现在机场没有接收到这方面的信息。
Yang Zhixin, the head of a group of Wuhan donors who saw a Seattle-based student charter flight carrying supplies to Wuhan, appears likely to be false: charter flights cost at least Rmb3m and would require airport approval, which would take at least 15 days to process, but no information has been received at the airport.
“我们验证不到这个信息也不敢信，但不排除之后对方可自证。
"We can't verify this information and we can't believe it, but we don't rule it out.
”杨志新说。
'he said.
许多明星的后援会粉丝团甚至都表现出了极高的执行能力，从发起捐款到筹集物资并定向输送的过程都会由这些自发群体全程把控。
Many star-studded aid groups have even demonstrated a high level of execution, from the initiation of donations to the collection and targeting of supplies.
一个由吴亦凡粉丝组成的名叫“吴亦凡梦想行走团”的50人规模的公益团体就成功向湖北省咸宁市结核病防治院捐赠了10万双丁腈手套，从1月28日开始筹划到1月30日物资到达医院，一共只花了3天时间。
Wu Yifan, a 50-member charity called Wu Yifan Mission, donated 100,000 pairs of butyronitrile gloves to the TB Prevention and Control Institute in Xianning City, Hubei Province, which took only three days from the start of planning on January 28 until the arrival of supplies on January 30.
据该公益团成员毛儿介绍，团队在跟湖北咸宁的志愿者取得联系后，首先与接收医院提前沟通了其计划采购的丁腈手套是否符合医用标准，在得到确认后，就开始动用一切力量采购物资、查询可以通行的途经高速、寻找能去往咸宁的物流，与志愿者沟通协助引导司机在疫区外卸货，然后将物资交由志愿者来负责完成到医院的交接。
After contacting volunteers in Xianning, Hubei province, the team first contacted the receiving hospital to find out if the gloves were up to medical standards. When confirmed, the team started to use all its efforts to procure supplies, check the available routes, find logistics to Xianning, communicate with volunteers to help guide the drivers to unload the goods outside the affected areas, and then hand over the materials to volunteers to complete the handover.
毛儿表示2月12日，还会有一批德国的3M 8810型号及FFP2和FFP3标准的口罩空运过来（后改为385件防护服）。
On February 12, a further batch of German 3M 8810 and FFP2 and FFP3 standard masks will be flown in (later changed to 385 suits), Mao said.
虽然民间组织利用多渠道运送物资目前看来是一种高效的方式，更多问题还在于捐赠信息难辨真假、各路关卡放行、医院需求信息的对接等，因此，哪怕是民间力量，也需要一个有力的协调平台。
While the use of multiple channels for the delivery of goods by civil society organizations currently appears to be an efficient way, more problems lie in the difficulty of distinguishing between genuine and false donor information, the clearance of roadblocks, the docking of information on hospital needs, etc., so that even civilian forces need a strong coordination platform.
据某基金会资深工作人员陈羽介绍，2008年汶川地震的救援早期也发生了许多资源浪费，但中后期就学习了经验。
According to Chen Yu, a senior staff member of a foundation, a lot of resources were wasted in the early days of the Wenchuan earthquake, but the middle and later stages learned from the experience.
在大灾难面前，重要的是建立网络，比如防控指挥部、红十字会、卫建委、医院之间建立数据对接，而防控指挥部、志愿者与民间机构之间也要建立信息对接。
In the face of a major disaster, it is important to establish networks, such as a data interface between the command for prevention and control, the Red Cross, health commissions and hospitals, and an information interface between control commands, volunteers and civil society institutions.
此外，那时的民间社会组织可以通过挂靠腾讯公益、壹基金等来筹款捐赠进入汶川。
In addition, at that time, civil society organizations can rely on Tencent public welfare, a fund to raise funds to donate into Wenchuan.
“区别在于目前的武汉被封城了，志愿者无法前往现场建立数据对接，湖北本地的社会组织也不够发达。
"The difference is that Wuhan is now closed, volunteers can not go to the scene to establish data docking, Hubei local social organizations are not sufficiently developed.
而因为指定了接收捐赠的机构，腾讯等慈善企业无法挂靠筹款，民间物资很难有渠道送达疫区。
Tencent and other charities are unable to rely on fund-raising because they have designated institutions to receive donations, making it difficult for private goods to reach affected areas.
”他向《第一财经》杂志解释说。
He explained to First Finance magazine.
社会舆论的声讨改变了武汉红十字会一度调度物资阻塞的局面。
The outcry of public opinion changed the situation that Wuhan Red Cross once dispatched goods to block.
从1月31日开始，九州通医药物流公司正式入驻红十字会的防控物资仓库，负责物资的物流管理环节，一些符合标准的物资甚至可以达到两小时完成入库到出库的速度。
Since Jan. 31, Kyushu TongPharmaceutical Logistics Company has been in the Red Cross's control depot and is in charge of the logistics management of the materials.
所有物资的调配发放仍由防控指挥部相关单位负责，医用物资由市卫健委统一分配，非医用物资则由市发改委统一调配，两个单位均根据九州通上报的统计数据向九州通下达分配指令，最后由邮政完成配送。
The distribution of all materials shall remain the responsibility of the relevant units of the Control and Prevention Command, the medical materials shall be distributed uniformly by the Municipal Health Commission, and the non-medical materials shall be unified and coordinated by the Municipal Development and Reform Commission.
市场的力量由国家统筹规划的防疫救灾部署需要时间，例如临时征用全国范围内所有具备正规资质的口罩、护目镜、防护服等医疗物资生产工厂，需要至少14天左右的时间才能完成从接管、生产线恢复、增加设备和产能、商品合格标准测试、数量统计和物资分配等多项环节。
It takes at least 14 days for market forces to be deployed for epidemic prevention and relief, such as temporary requisition of all properly qualified medical material production plants nationwide, such as masks, goggles, protective clothing, etc., from take-over, production line rehabilitation, additional equipment and production capacity, commodity conformity testing, quantity statistics and material distribution.
正如张柱所说：“国家行为的前期响应时间不像个体这么快，中间会出现一个窗口期，这时候市场和个人行为的流通性更好、更有效，但疫情发展到中期、后期甚至拐点以后，一定是国家的力量更强，因为救灾物资是需要批量供给的。
As Zhang Zhu said: "The early response time of state behavior is not as fast as that of the individual. There is a window in between when the liquidity of the market and individual actions is better and more effective, but after the epidemic reaches the middle, late and even inflection point, the state must be stronger because relief supplies are needed in bulk.
”这也部分解释了为什么虽然财政部紧急下拨了10亿元补助资金支持湖北疫情防控，疫情发源地及重灾区武汉乃至整个湖北省的大大小小的医院仍在其后的十几天曾有过缺乏医用口罩、防护服等一系列物资的情况。
This partly explains why hospitals in Wuhan, the epicenter of the epidemic and throughout Hubei province, and throughout Hubei province, experienced shortages of a range of medical masks and protective clothing in the next decade, despite the emergency allocation of one billion yuan from the Ministry of Finance to support the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei province.
工信部相关负责人曾在1月29日回答媒体提问时指出，中国是全球最大的口罩生产和出口国，年产量占全球约50％，而中国口罩的最大产能是每天2000多万只。
China is the world's largest producer and exporter of face masks, accounting for about 50% of global production, and has a maximum capacity of more than 20 million masks a day, the ministry's official said in a statement to reporters on January 29.
但当时产能仅恢复了40%，达到800万只，海外医疗物资的援助仍旧至关重要。
But capacity had recovered by only 40%, to 8 million, and foreign medical aid remained vital.
在民间组织零散物资捐赠到国家统一接手的过程中，不管是小鹰科技这样的创业公司，还是阿里巴巴这样的大公司，市场力量在这个过程中的作用不容忽视。
The role of market forces in the process - from startups like Eagle Technologies to big companies like Alibaba - cannot be ignored in the process.
相比大量的民间个人和团体捐赠者来说，这些公司在物资的品质把控、达标情况等方面的专业性让它们能更快参与其中。
Compared with a large number of private individuals and groups of donors, these companies in the quality of the control, compliance with standards and other aspects of the expertise so that they can participate more quickly.
从1月20日钟南山表示新冠肺炎病毒“肯定人传人”开始，全国线下药店和线上平台迅速出现了口罩全面断货的趋势。
From January 20 Zhong Nan Shan said the new crown pneumonia virus "positive person-to-person" began, the national online pharmacies and online platforms quickly appeared a complete trend of mask stock-outs.
对口罩这样的非日常生活必须的商品来说，遇上春节工厂全面停工的时间档口，短缺形势的加剧几乎是必然的。
For non-daily necessities such as masks, the shortage is almost inevitable when the Spring Festival factory comes to a full stop.
别样海外购除了借助跨境电商平台的优势，协助做海外机构捐赠的数十批近百万个的口罩出入境清关运输外，也开始满足普通消费者的需求。
Apart from the advantages of cross-boundary electronic commerce platforms, overseas buyers are beginning to meet the needs of ordinary consumers in addition to donating dozens of batches of nearly one million masks from overseas organisations for customs clearance.
1月21日，别样在美国当地的团队就协调好山姆会员店、美国知名连锁零售店Walgreens等合作商家，并立即在App内上架了N95型防护口罩及其他防护用品的货源，所有商品均通过跨境电商渠道运输直邮到消费者的手中。
On January 21, local teams in the United States co-ordinated Sam's Club stores, Walgreens, a leading U.S. retail chain, and immediately mounted a supply of N95 face masks and other protective items on the App, all of which were shipped directly to consumers through cross-border electrical commercial channels.
口罩刚上线即销售一空，美国线下超市、药店的口罩也陆续开始出现断货迹象。
Masks sold out as soon as they went online and began to show signs of stock-outs at American stores and pharmacies.
“到1月23日、24日的时候，我们发现全球市场上的现货已经很少了，尽管我们发动员工去线下找货，但仍要确保渠道和货源可靠。
"By January 23 and 24 we had found that the global market was running out of stock, and even though we were mobilising our people to look for goods offline, we had to make sure the channels and sources were reliable.
”别样海外购CEO沈学华解释说，由于美国直邮的口罩从采购到运送至用户手里最快也需要10天左右的时间，别样增派了物流团队的人手，员工整日待命。
Shen Xuehua, CEO of the US direct-mail company, explained that since it takes about 10 days from the time a direct-mail mask is purchased to its customers, other logistics teams are deployed and staff are on standby all day.
根据沈学华提供的数据，到目前为止，别样平台一共卖出了超过7万个N95口罩。
So far, more than 70,000 N95 masks have been sold on alternative platforms, according to Shen.
由于2月中上旬中美航班的大规模取消，运力受到了很大的影响，物流成本急剧升高，“但这些我们最终都自己消化了，不仅按照采购的原价销售，还对海外运输的费用有了每单5至6美元的补贴。
As a result of the massive cancellation of China-US flights in the first half of February, capacity was greatly affected and logistics costs rose sharply, "but we eventually absorbed them ourselves, not only by selling at the original purchase price, but also by subsidizing the cost of overseas transport by $5 to $6 each.
”沈学华说。
"said Shen.
网易严选迅速于1月21日成立防疫专项应急小组，集结商品开发、物流、采购、品控、产品、市场等多部门人员，联合供应商加量生产、紧急调货。
On January 21, Netease set up a special emergency response team for epidemic prevention, which assembled multisectoral personnel from commodity development, logistics, procurement, quality control, products and markets.
当天，网易严选就一共上线了5万份防护用品供全国用户免费领取，截至1月21日24时，网易严选的数据显示，武汉、上海、杭州、深圳、北京等城市口罩、免洗抑菌喷雾、医用级酒精片等防护用品的需求量呈现出爆发式增长，紧缺防护用品单日需求增长超过5000%。
As of 2400 hours on January 21, data compiled by Netease International showed an explosive growth in demand for protective products such as Wuhan, Shanghai, Hangzhou, Shenzhen and Beijing, as well as for antibacterial sprays and medical-grade alcohol tablets.
截至2月8日，网易严选先后4次上线近20万片防护口罩免费专供湖北用户，并紧急调集上线了5万份一次性酒精片、洗手液、免洗净手喷雾等4款防护用品，供全国用户免费领取。
As of February 8, Netease had selected nearly 200,000 protective masks on line four times for free exclusively for users in Hubei Province, and had urgently mobilized four types of protective equipment, including 50,000 disposable alcohol tablets, hand sanitizers and hand spray, which were available free of charge to users throughout the country.
同时，严选一共调集了面向全国消费者的100万件防护物资供应。
At the same time, the campaign mobilized a total of 1 million protective materials for consumers across the country.
网易严选日本供应商为中国供货。
Netease selects Japanese suppliers to supply China.
1月30日起，阿里巴巴向全球采购的N95口罩等医疗物资陆续从印度尼西亚、韩国、俄罗斯等国运抵上海浦东国际机场，随后直接运送到湖北武汉、浙江温州等物资紧缺的医院。
Since January 30, medical supplies such as N95 masks that Alibaba has been purchasing from around the world have arrived at Shanghai's Pudong International Airport from Indonesia, South Korea and Russia.
从25日设立10亿元医疗物资供给专项基金到物资到位，一共花了5天时间。
It took five days to set up a special fund of 1 billion yuan for the supply of medical materials and materials arrived on the 25th.
由于医疗物资从海外市场直接采购，而不同国家对医疗物资的执行标准不一，采购过程需要攻克的一项重要任务就是迅速对应出国内医疗机构需物资的海外采购标准。
Since medical supplies are procured directly from overseas markets and standards of implementation vary from country to country, an important task that needs to be overcome in the procurement process is to quickly match overseas procurement standards for the requirements of domestic medical institutions.
阿里巴巴找到了德国TV莱茵、英国Intertek天祥集团、美国UL安全试验所等在内的12家质检机构合作，邀请合作方加入到供应商资质审核、海外实地校验、国内入仓验货、留样送审等整个环节的工作中。
Alibaba has sought the cooperation of 12 quality inspection bodies, including German TV Rhine, British Intertek Tianxiang Group, UL Safety Laboratory, etc., and invited partners to join in the whole process of supplier qualification audit, overseas field verification, domestic warehousing inspection, and sample retention.
瑞士检测机构SGS的项目负责人徐莉佳在1月26日晚上接近11点时接到了一通来自阿里巴巴的请求协助的电话后迅速作出反应。
Xu Lijia, program director at SGS, a Swiss-based testing firm, responded quickly to a call for help from Alibaba in the late evening of January 26.
第二天，SGS内部成立了一个技术专家组，开始制定海外现场工作的要求，包括海外供应商审核标准以及符合疫情所需的防护面罩、口罩、防护服、护目镜等各类防护用品的外观检验标准，并明确对标的海外执行标准，以便制定清晰的采购要求。
The following day, a team of technical experts was established within SGS to begin to develop requirements for on-site work overseas, including standards for the review of overseas suppliers and appearance tests for all types of protective equipment, such as face masks, face masks, protective clothing, goggles and so forth, in order to establish clear procurement requirements.
20个小时过后，SGS完成了第一轮标准起草工作并翻译成英文，交由SGS全球团队执行。
Twenty hours later, SGS completed the first round of standard drafting and translated it into English for implementation by the SGS global team.
28日，SGS派驻几组检验专家前往仁川、京畿道和金浦等地，陪同阿里巴巴采购团队现场了解供应商生产情况，并在现场封存样品。
On the 28th, SGS sent teams of inspection experts to Incheon, Gyeonggi Province and Gyeonggi Province and Gyeonggi Province to accompany the Alibaba procurement team on site to learn about the supplier's production and seal up samples on site.
随后，采购区域还扩展到了日本、土耳其、摩洛哥、乌克兰、哥伦比亚、芬兰、德国等地区。
Subsequently, the procurement area was extended to Japan, Turkey, Morocco, Ukraine, Colombia, Finland, Germany and other regions.
海外实地校验是品控的关键环节。
Field test abroad is the key link of quality control.
例如，要确认供应商现场的资质证书是否与其提供的电子版本一致，有些期货采购的订单则要生产设施与生产环境符合要求等，这些工作都需要在现场完成。
For example, to confirm that the supplier's on-site qualification is consistent with the electronic version it provides, some forward purchase orders require production facilities and the production environment to meet requirements, all of which require on-site completion.
据徐莉佳对《第一财经》杂志回忆，土耳其的一单物资就是质检团队到现场后发现与最初沟通的产品相比低了一个等级，而且是由一个家庭小作坊生产，工人在操作时甚至没有任何卫生防护措施，阿里巴巴最终取消了这一单的合作。
According to Xu Lijia, a single item from Turkey was found by the quality inspection team to be one level lower than the original communication product and produced by a small family workshop, without even any protection measures for the workers, which Alibaba eventually cancelled.
与此同时，国内入仓环节也至关重要，据天猫国际商品部相关负责人介绍，SGS国内的验货人员就曾经拦截了一批缝制有瑕疵的手术服以及外箱和内盒破损进水的产品。
At the same time, the in-country entry process is also crucial, according to the head of Cat International's Commodity Division. SGS inspectors in China have intercepted a shipment of defective surgical uniforms and damaged water-inlet products in the outer and inner boxes.
“现在的航班也没有能力再接收更多的货物了，航空运力的减少加上大量企业参与进来做捐赠及采购事宜后，物资的增长速度一直在上升，我们看到航空公司也已经出现货物积压的现象。
"There is no capacity to take in more cargo, the growth rate of goods has been increasing and we have seen a backlog of cargo in airlines," he said, adding that the decline in air capacity and the involvement of a large number of companies in donations and purchases.
”徐江涵说。
"said Xu Jianhan.
这也是为什么从2月15日开始中美航班停航对民间物资的运输影响并不算显著。
That is why the disruption of Chinese and American flights since February 15 has had little impact on civilian shipments.
除此以外，全球市场的医疗物资存货几乎已经消耗殆尽，短时间内难以快速补充更多的采购货源。
In addition, stocks of medical supplies on the global market have almost been depleted, making it difficult to rapidly replenish additional procurement resources in the short term.
20多天过去，国家调配物资有了反馈。
More than 20 days passed and feedback was received on the national deployment of materials.
上海在经历了长达十几天的民用口罩短缺之后率先于2月3日恢复了部分口罩供应。
Shanghai was the first to resume supply of face masks on February 3 after a decade of shortages.
上海居民可以按照一份药店清单选择离家最近的网点排队购买口罩。
Shanghai residents can line up to buy masks at the nearest network according to a list of pharmacies.
根据上海雷允上平顺路店经理的说法，这家药店由华氏大药房、当地街道和商委统一指定对口3个居委会，每天商委会根据每个片区的情况调拨口罩额度，再由华氏大药房进货，并根据每个居委会的额度按比例分配。
According to the manager of the Shanghai Luyangshuping Shun Lu store, the drugstore is jointly designated by the Fahrenheit pharmacy, local streets and commercial commissariats. Each day, the committee allocates mask quota according to the situation in each area.
一开始每天大约到货1600至2000个口罩，而在购买从排队改为预约制以后，到货量逐渐增加到了4000多个，整体上供应处在持续恢复上涨的过程中。
From about 1,600 to 2,000 masks per day, the number of deliveries has gradually increased to over 4,000 since the purchase was changed from queuing to booking. Overall, the Supply Office is in the process of continuing to recover.
据该药店经理介绍，每次进货的口罩数量、样式和价格均不相同，有0.56元一只的，也有1.9元的日本进口口罩，还有1.98元的白色口罩。
According to the pharmacy manager, the number, style and price of face masks purchased vary from 0.56 yuan (US $1.90) to 1.9 yuan (US $1.98) for white masks.
每天由居委会派人到药店取货，再回到社区统一按照预约情况分发。
Every day the neighborhood committee sent people to the pharmacy to pick up the goods, and then back to the community in accordance with the appointment distribution.
而在2月13日的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上，工业和信息化部消费品工业司副司长曹学军表示，截至2月12日，国内生产企业累计向湖北运抵医用防护服72.67万件，医用隔离面罩和隔离眼罩35.84万件，负压救护车156辆，呼吸机2286台，心电监护仪6929台，全自动红外测温仪761台。
Cao Xuejun, deputy director of the consumer goods industry department of the Ministry of Industry and Informatization, said at a press conference on February 13 that as of February 12, 726,700 medical protective suits, 358,400 medical masks and eye shields, 156 negative pressure ambulances, 2,286 respirators, 6929 electrocardiograph and 761 automatic infrared thermometers had arrived in Hubei province.
国家发展改革委产业发展司一级巡视员夏农则指出，截至2月11日，全国口罩产能利用率已达94%；特别是一线防控急需的医用N95口罩，产能利用率已达到128%。
As of February 11, 94 percent of the national production capacity for masks had been used, especially for the first-line control of the much-needed N95 masks, which had a capacity utilization rate of 128%.
以全球化市场为基础的电子商务在过去10年的发展在此次民间捐助行为中发挥了重要的作用。
The development of electronic commerce based on the globalized market has played an important role in this private donation in the past decade.
混乱的窗口期会过去，但对于一个国家来说，整个公共防疫系统所出现的问题才是接下来要整治的方向。
The window of confusion will pass, but for a country, the problem with the entire public health system is the next step.
（应采访对象要求，文中李青、杨志新、陈羽、石磊为化名）本文为节选，全文收录于《第一财经》杂志2020年2&3月合刊《新冠肺炎抗击实录》。
(At the request of the interviewee, Li Qing, Yang Zhixin, Chen Yu, and Shi Lei are excerpts from this article. The full text is included in First Finance magazine's 2020 & amp; amp; amp; Finance magazine & amp; # 39; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
作为商业杂志，我们力图围绕商业、城市管理、生物科技等多个角度对这次公共卫生事件展开记录、复盘与反思，以完成一本商业杂志的职责。
As a business magazine, we try to record, renegotiate, and reflect on public health events from the perspective of business, urban management, biotechnology, etc., in order to fulfill the role of a business magazine.
在本期杂志中你将看到：现场——《武汉求生》现场——《我给医院捐了300瓶消毒液，想换一个妈妈的住院资格》现场——《命运将我降临武汉》现场——《封城之后，我送出了9万个口罩》现场——《我是最早警觉起来的人，但是》调查——《一副口罩的“急客通道”》调查——《意外的长假》调查——《京沪保卫战》追问——《狙击新冠病毒》追问——《医用防护服为何如此缺?》新一线栏目《大数据在这次疫情防控中起了什么作用?》未来预想图《“疫”外灾害: 疫情阴影下的海外华人》*你可通过扫描下图中下方的二维码或点击顶部banner及底部阅读原文进入微信小店预购本期杂志。
"I donated 300 bottles of disinfectant to the hospital to change the hospitalization qualification of a mother" - "I'm the first to wake up, but I sent 90,000 masks" - "After the closure of the city, I sent 90,000 masks."
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 武汉封城之初，海外华人如何打通口罩的急客通道。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 武汉封城之初，海外华人如何打通口罩的急客通道";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "​当所有的基金会和志愿者发动起来，散落在全球的医疗物资库存很快会浮出水面，但怎么到达焦虑的医生们手中，是一个复杂的过程。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; When all the foundations and volunteers started up, stocks of medical supplies scattered around the world soon began to surface, but how to reach anxious doctors was a complex process.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
