武汉一线消防员：从火神山到社区，在疫情前线防控。
Wuhan first-line firefighter: from the mountain to the community, in the front line of the epidemic prevention and control.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
在日夜奋战的“战场”上，他们许下简单的愿望——“愿山河无恙，人间皆安”。
On the battlefield, where they fight night and day, they make a simple wish: "May the mountains and rivers be whole and the earth safe.
青山区消防员在街道执行消杀任务。
Firefighters in the Qingshan area perform street erasure tasks.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者 张惠兰编辑 | 王婧祎 校对 | 陈荻雁►本文约4149字，阅读全文约需8分钟衣服一层层脱下，先是最外层的隔离衣，再是防护服，李长春这才发现，最里一层的手术服，已被汗水打湿，和皮肤粘连在了一块儿。
Interviewees for the Beijing News, Zhang Hui Lan, a journalist, and Jing Chen. Some 4,149 words in this article will take about eight minutes to read. First, the outermost garment, and then the protective clothing, Li Changchun has found that the innermost layer of clothing has been wet with sweat and adhered to the skin.
李长春是武汉火神山医院消防救援站站长助理。
Li Changchun is the assistant of the fire rescue station of Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital.
在医院污染区工作了5小时后，他已经全身湿透，“鼻子、耳朵被口罩勒得疼，哪儿都不舒服。
After working in a hospital contaminated area for five hours, he was soaked through. "His nose and ears were strangled with a mask and he was uncomfortable everywhere.
但是医护人员一进去就是6个小时，不吃不喝，还不能上厕所，你可想而知是怎么过的。
But when paramedics come in for six hours without eating or drinking or using the restroom, you can imagine how you get along.
”1月底，李长春带领7名消防队员参与火神山医院的建设，组建消防站，并驻扎至今。
At the end of January, Li Changchun led seven firefighters to the construction of Mount Fukuyama Hospital and set up a fire station, where he remains.
上述场景发生在3月11日、12日，他们为分布在全院的1167个烟感探测器作重新标定。
The scene occurred March 11, 12, they re-calibrate the 1167 smoke detectors scattered throughout the hospital.
在武汉，疫情发生以来，有数百名消防员像李长春一样，出没于各大医院、康复驿站、小区、街巷，除了防火灭火，还从事病人转运、物资搬运、社区洗消等本不在其职责范围之内的涉疫工作，消防员，成了这座城市抗疫力量中不可或缺的一支。
In Wuhan, hundreds of firefighters, like Li Changchun, haunt major hospitals, rehabilitation stations, communities, streets and alleys. In addition to fighting fire and preventing fires, firefighters have become an indispensable part of the city's anti-epidemic efforts, such as patient transshipment, material handling and community cleansing.
如今，他们和整座城市一起，翘首期盼疫情的结束。
Now, along with the whole city, they look forward to the end of the epidemic.
预案加巡查，让火神山无火火神山医院位于武汉市蔡甸区，是此次疫情期间首个参照北京“小汤山”模式而建的传染病专门医院，建筑面积达3.39万平方米，提供1000张床位。
Pre-plan plus inspection, so that the fire god mountain hospital in Wuhan, Cai Den District, is the first Beijing "Xiaotangshan" built during the epidemic model of the infectious disease, the construction area of 33,900 square meters, providing 1,000 beds.
1月24日上午，火神山医院正式开建，短短10天便正式建成使用。
On the morning of January 24, the Mount Huoshen Hospital was officially opened and put into use in just 10 days.
这个过程中，既有多家建筑和设计单位的辛苦作业，也有消防人员的幕后努力。
In this process, there are many building and design units hard work, but also fire personnel behind the scenes efforts.
李长春向新京报记者回忆，1月31日，火神山医院交付前两天，他和另外7名消防员接到组建消防站的任务，赶赴火神山。
On January 31, two days before the delivery, he and seven other firefighters were sent to a fire station to set up a fire station, Li Changchun told the Beijing News.
一切几乎从零开始。
Everything starts almost from scratch.
后来的消防站当时还只是间废旧的超市，没有包括灭火器在内的任何灭火防火设备。
The fire station was then an old supermarket without any fire fighting equipment, including fire extinguishers.
李长春带着队员将超市改造为消防站，同时给院区安装了1000具灭火器和1100多个烟感探测器，几乎两天两夜都没有合过眼。
Mr. Li and his team converted the supermarket into a fire station and installed 1,000 fire extinguishers and more than 1,100 smoke detectors on the compound.
李长春和队员在火神山医院感染区标定烟感探测器。
Li Changchun and his team calibrated smoke detectors in the infection area of Fosen Mountain Hospital.
受访者供图待消防站正式建成，火神山医院接治病人后，消防员们依旧不敢松懈。
Interviewees are expected to wait until the fire station is officially completed, and firefighters are still afraid to relax after receiving patients at Mount Fujimori Hospital.
李长春告诉新京报记者，作为一家专门收治新冠肺炎患者的传染病医院，火神山医院一旦失火，情势远比普通医院复杂。
Li Changchun told the Beijing News that as a hospital specializing in treating patients with new crown pneumonia infectious diseases, fire Shenshan Hospital once the fire, the situation is far more complex than ordinary hospitals.
住院的重症患者往往戴着供氧设备，或者有其他插管，如火势蔓延需转移病人，必须确保这些生命维持系统在转移时不会中断。
In-patients with severe illnesses often wear oxygen equipment or have other intubation systems, which must be ensured that they are not interrupted when a fire spreads and patients need to be relocated.
医院内有严格的污染区、半污染区、清洁区分区，如果在救援过程中破拆不当，有可能造成院内污染甚至整座医院的停摆。
The hospital has strict pollution area, semi-polluted area and clean area. If broken down improperly during the rescue process, it may cause pollution in the hospital and even stop the whole hospital.
而对于消防员自己，在疏散人员时还得注意避免被感染。
For firefighters themselves, care must be taken to avoid getting infected when evacuating people.
2月10日，武汉市青山区一居民楼发生火灾，青山区武丰消防站派员救火。
February 10, Wuhan City, Qingshan a residential building fire, Wufeng Qingshan fire station staff fire.
起火的单元楼里有多名确诊和疑似病人，由于防护服不防火，消防员只能依旧穿着灭火战斗服进楼灭火。
There were many confirmed and suspected patients in the building where the fire broke out, and firefighters were forced to enter the building wearing firefighting uniforms because the suits were not fire-resistant.
火情消除后，消防员们进行了全面消毒，所幸没有人员发生感染。
After the fire ended, firefighters carried out a thorough disinfection, but fortunately no one was infected.
因此，在火神山医院，避免出现上述种种麻烦的唯一办法就是，不发生任何火情。
So at Mount Fire, the only way to avoid all this trouble is not to have any fires.
李长春和队员们花费两周多制作了115份应急预案。
Li and his team spent more than two weeks making 115 contingency plans.
因为不便频繁进入隔离病区，他们用无人机高空取下医院的三维实景图，再制成电子沙盘，在上面反复推演，“每个区域、每个通道、每个点都要把它想得细之又细。
Unconvenient for frequent access to quarantined areas, they use drones to take down three-dimensional images of the hospital at high altitude, then create electronic sandboards on which they repeatedly extrapolate, "Every area, every passageway, every point should be carefully thought out.
”火神山医院消防站的队员们用无人机取医院的三维实景图。
Members of the fire station at Mount Fukuyama Hospital used drones to get a three-dimensional view of the hospital.
受访者供图尤其在病患疏散环节，消防员们的营救需要医护人员的配合。
Respondents were shown especially in the evacuation of patients, and rescue of firefighters required the cooperation of medical staff.
他们会和院方讨论，“在这个点位上，我需要5位医护人员协助，到时候他们能不能给我协助？如果他们只有三个人，那么我们怎么办？”反复细致推敲后，如果发现现实和原预案有出入，李长春和队员们会继续优化。
They will discuss with the hospital, "At this point, I need the assistance of five medical personnel, when they will be able to help me? If they have only three, then what shall we do?"
2月下旬，火神山医院决定在全院区加装坡屋面。
In late February, Mount Fukuyama Hospital decided to install ramp roofs throughout the compound.
李长春告诉新京报记者，火神山医院是板房结构，尽管墙是防火材料，但连接缝内填充的聚氨酯为易燃物，加装坡屋面时的焊接作业有可能带来火灾隐患。
Li Changchun told the Beijing News that the fire god mountain hospital is a slab structure, although the walls are fire-resistant materials, but the joints filled with polyurethane combustible materials, when the slope roofing welding operations may bring potential fire hazards.
为此，李长春带着同事，和运行指挥部反复商讨，制定现场保卫方案，施工期间，8名消防员悉数出动，紧盯每一处施工现场，保证了这一工程的安全完成。
To this end, Li Changchun and his colleagues, and the operation headquarters repeatedly discussed with the development of a site protection programme, during the construction, eight firefighters all moved out, watching every construction site, to ensure the safe completion of the project.
每日的巡查也必不可少。
Daily inspections are also essential.
队员们两次在院内巡查，保证安全出口、疏散通道随时保持畅通，还要给分布在院区的9个消火栓测压，保证水压符合安全要求。
The team patrolled the compound twice to ensure safe exits and evacuation routes remained open at all times, as well as to measure the pressure of the nine hydrant fire hydrants distributed throughout the compound to ensure that the water pressure met safety requirements.
自雷神山医院投用以来，江夏区消防救援大队队长彭青松也一直坐阵。
Since the use of Luoshen Hospital, Jiangxia District Fire Rescue Brigade captain Peng Qingsong has also been sitting in the battle.
他告诉新京报记者，2月16日，雷神山消防救援站的队员巡查时发现，强电间内的一个配电箱用塑料布蒙盖着，“但这个‘雨布’是可燃的，如果碰到电气故障等原因，就可能酿成火灾。
"But this' raincloth 'is flammable and can lead to a fire if there is an electrical failure," he told the Beijing News on Feb. 16, when members of a fire rescue station in Raytheon Mountain patrolled a distribution box covered in a plastic cloth
”这一问题后来被反映到了雷神山医院运行保障指挥部的例会上，塑料布被迅速撤下，每间配电房内增设了超细干粉灭火弹，还加放了一卷防火的阻燃布作备用。
The problem was later brought to light at the regular meetings of the operational support headquarters of Raytheon Mountain Hospital, where plastic sheeting was quickly removed and ultra-fine dry powder firebombs were added to each of the distribution rooms, and a roll of fire-resistant tarpaulins was added as a backup.
在周密的预案和日常巡查下，火神山、雷神山医院迄今没有发生过任何火情。
In the meticulous plan and the routine inspection, the fire god mountain, thunder Shenshan hospital has not had any fire so far.
这两家医院只是一个缩影。
The two hospitals are just a microcosm.
3月17日，武汉市消防救援支队有关负责人告诉新京报记者，疫情发生以来，除了在火神山、雷神山医院派驻消防员以外，武汉市还成立了57支消防专业技术服务队，全程做好“五类场所”（医院、集中隔离点、医护人员住地、防疫物资生产企业以及防疫物资储存场所）的消防服务工作。
On March 17, the relevant officials of the Wuhan Fire Rescue Detachment told the Beijing News that, in addition to posting firefighters to Mount Fire and Lei Shenshan Hospital, Wuhan had set up 57 fire professional technical service teams to provide fire control services in all five categories of places: hospitals, centralized quarantine points, medical and health personnel, epidemic prevention enterprises and epidemic prevention material storage sites.
截至目前，武汉市消防共摸排建档“五类场所”980家，驻守9家定点医院、7家康复驿站、7个集中隔离点，整改风险点15138个，捐赠灭火器12000具、火灾报警器2171个，实现了定点医院（发热门诊）、方舱医院和集中隔离点等场所“零火灾”。
Up to now, there are 980 fire control stations in Wuhan, nine designated hospitals, seven rehabilitation stations, seven centralized quarantine stations, 15,138 risk rectification points, 12,000 fire extinguishers and 2,171 fire alarms.
背着几十斤重的消杀壶跑十几栋楼在疫情中的武汉，消防员不止要和火打交道。
Firefighters in Wuhan, with dozens of buildings carrying dozens of heavy pots, have to deal with more than fire.
一位消防员告诉新京报记者，在平时，消防员的工作就已经十分琐碎，除了公众印象中的防火灭火、抢险救援外，消防员还要摘马蜂窝、高空取物、捕蛇，“还有人养的宠物鸟飞到树上了，让我们把它抓回来。
A firefighter told the Beijing News that firefighters are already doing their jobs frivolously. In addition to firefighting and rescue, firefighters pick up hornet's nests, pick things from high altitude, catch snakes. "There are pet birds flying into trees and let's get them back.
”疫情来袭，诸事纷杂，消防人员的工作范围也进一步扩大了。
The epidemic is coming, everything is happening, and the scope of firefighters' work has been further expanded.
武汉市消防支队上述负责人表示，疫情发生以来， 119报警服务台全天候24小时受理涉疫报警求助，抽调骨干力量组建20支、650人的“119党员突击队”，主动承担病员转送、医护接送、洗消杀毒、物资转运等勤务工作。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, 119 police help desks have been called in 24 hours a day to receive epidemic-related calls for help, and cadres have been mobilized to set up a 119-member commando unit, composed of 650 personnel, to take the initiative in such duties as patient referral, medical and medical evacuation, decontamination and material transfer.
武汉市江夏区的119党员突击队有32人，其中12人专事人员转运，姜恒是这个小分队的队长。
Jiang Heng is the captain of the 119-member commando unit in the Jiangxia district of Wuhan city, which has 32 members, 12 of whom work exclusively as transporters.
姜恒告诉新京报记者，他们转运的主要是密切接触者和治愈出院但须继续隔离的人员，这些人员上车前，队员们需要对他们作全身消杀。
Jiang told the Beijing News that the transporters were mainly in close contact with people who had been discharged but had to remain isolated. Before they could get on the bus, members of the team had to be completely exterminated.
而消防员自己也不能掉以轻心，每天出站前，姜恒和队员们都会听从医护人员的建议，穿上防护服，佩戴护目镜，戴两层口罩、两层防护手套，脚上套上两层鞋套，保证全身无任何皮肤裸露。
Firefighters themselves can't be complacent. Before leaving the station every day, Jiang Heng and his team members follow the doctors and nurses' advice and wear protective clothing, goggles, two masks, two protective gloves, and two pairs of shoe covers over their feet to ensure that no skin is exposed.
每转运完一批人员，消防员和车辆也要做一次全面消杀。
Firefighters and vehicles are also required to undergo a full-scale elimination for each transhipment.
他们和医院建立起信息沟通机制，一旦他们转运的密切接触者在医院查出肺部病变，医院会将信息告知负责转运的消防人员。
They set up an information communication mechanism with the hospital. Once close contacts in transit detect lung lesions in the hospital, the hospital informs the fire brigade in charge of the transshipment.
姜恒会紧急要求队员们就地消毒，更换防护服，“这也是对下一批病人负责”。
Jiang will urgently require the team to disinfect and replace the protective clothing, "this is also responsible for the next batch of patients."
在青山区，消防队员是老旧社区洗消杀毒的中坚力量。
Firefighters are the backbone of antivirus campaigns in old communities in the Qingshan area.
翟帅是青山区119党员突击队的副队长，他告诉新京报记者，由于青山区老旧小区多，物业管理落后，区政府指定由他们对73个老旧社区开展消杀工作。
Zhai, deputy commander of the 119-member commando brigade in the Qingshan area, told the Beijing News that because of the old and backward property management in the Qingshan area, the district government has designated them to carry out eradication work on 73 old communities.
翟帅介绍，消杀完全依靠人力，背着几十斤重的消杀壶，有时一名队员一个上午就得跑上十几个楼栋，用掉五六壶消毒水。
Zhai Shuai introduced, completely rely on manpower, carrying dozens of pounds of the elimination of the pot, sometimes a member of the team had to run up a dozen buildings in a morning, with 56 pot of disinfectant.
青山区消防员在老旧小区执行消杀任务。
Firefighters in the Qingshan area perform antiseptic tasks in old neighborhoods.
受访者供图有时，消防员们还要承受市民们压力、情绪的转嫁。
Sometimes, firefighters have to bear the stress and emotions of citizens.
武昌区消防救援大队教导员张拓向新京报记者回忆，3月初，武昌区的119党员突击队接管了武昌火车站附近一家酒店改造的康复驿站，但“第一天晚上就炸锅了”。
At the beginning of March, 119-member commandos in Wuchang district took over the converted rehabilitation post at a hotel near Wuchang railway station, but "blew up the pot the first night," Zhang Tuo, a Fire Rescue Brigade instructor at Wuchang District, told the Beijing News.
有的康复患者认为自己已经治愈，不需隔离，有的嫌弃酒店条件差，还有些老人患有基础性疾病，但当时驿站尚未派驻医护，他们担心自己得不到照护。
Some convalescent patients thought they were cured and did not need to be isolated, some hated the poor condition of the hotel and still others suffered from basic illnesses, but at the time the post-station had not been attended to and they feared that they would not be cared for.
大家你一言我一语，提出五花八门的要求。
You say everything and you make all kinds of demands.
消防队员们只好反复解释人力、物资紧缺的现状，安抚有基础性疾病的患者，承诺一旦发病，队员们将协助送医。
Firefighters repeatedly explained the shortage of manpower and supplies, comforted patients with basic illnesses, and promised medical assistance in the event of illness.
就在当天深夜，一位老人心脏病犯了，消防队员迅速联系了一家医院，给老人做了检查，开了药。
Late that night, an old man had a heart attack, and firefighters quickly contacted a hospital to check on the old man and prescribe medication.
随后几天，他们根据康复患者们的需要，陆续补进医疗用品和药物、各类生活物资，小到剃须刀、指甲剪、卫生巾，有位患者反映在房内呼吸不畅，消防员们还协调要来了一台制氧机。
Over the next few days, they added medical supplies and drugs, various household items, ranging from razors to nail clips to sanitary towels, according to the needs of the convalescent patients. One patient complained of poor breathing in the room and firefighters coordinated the arrival of an oxygen generator.
如此一来，康复患者们情绪才逐渐安定下来。
In this way, the recovery patients gradually settled down.
在翟帅看来，和平时灭火、抢险的任务比起来，这些涉疫任务虽然简单琐碎，但这半个多月下来，他发现，把这些关乎民生的小事做好，也很有意义。
In Zhai Shuai, and peacetime fire-fighting, emergency tasks, although these tasks are simple and trivial, but over the past half a month, he found that these people's well-being, good, but also very meaningful.
武汉市消防支队提供的数据显示，截至3月13日，武汉市消防支队共出动指战员13182人次、执勤车辆2749台次、转送病员8154人、接送医护人员1975人次、洗消杀毒764.6万平方米、转运物资7224.5吨。
As of March 13, the Wuhan city fire brigade had sent 13,182 military personnel, 2,749 operational vehicles, 8,154 medical personnel, 1975 medical personnel, 7,646,000 square meters of antivirus and 7224.5 tons of trans-shipment materials, according to the Wuhan Fire Detachment.
青山区消防员在协助分拣蔬菜。
Firefighters in the Qingshan area are helping to sort vegetables.
受访者供图“愿山河无恙，人间皆安”面对疫情，在执行任务时，消防员们也会感到恐惧。
Firefighters were also terrified of the epidemic as interviewees presented the picture "May the mountains and rivers be safe and sound".
翟帅回忆，在上述青山区居民楼火灾发生时，队员们和往常一样，依照事先确定好的战斗编程，冲进住有确诊和疑似患者的楼里灭火、疏散，还救下了一名婴儿，救援全程历时一个多小时。
Zhai recalled that when the fire broke out in the Qingshan area, the team members, as usual, rushed into the building with confirmed and suspected patients to extinguish the fire, evacuate the building and save a baby for more than an hour according to pre-determined combat programming.
虽然这个过程中并没有直接接触过确诊和疑似患者，但救援完成后，翟帅还是有些后怕，毕竟冲进楼里救援的队员没有穿防护服。
Although the process did not have direct contact with the diagnosis and suspected patients, but after the completion of the rescue, Zhai was afraid, after all, rushed into the building rescue team did not wear protective clothing.
在队员们监测体温的那些天里，翟帅每天提心吊胆，“会不会有人因为这个状况被感染，我一直在顾虑这件事情。
During the days when the team was monitoring the body temperature, Zhai said with trepidation every day, "Is there anyone infected with this condition? I've been thinking about it.
”但这些恐惧，有时能被更强大的力量消解。
But sometimes these fears can be dissipated by more powerful forces.
翟帅回忆，有一回，他和队员们完成任务，到加油站给车加油，突然不远处传来一声“武汉加油”，抬头望去，发现一个老奶奶正拿着手机拍他们，有队员回喊了一声“武汉加油”。
Zhai recalled, once, he and his team to complete the mission, gas station to refuel, suddenly came a "Wuhan refueling", looked up to see an old grandmother holding a cell phone to shoot them, a member of the team shouted back "Wuhan refueling.
那一瞬让翟帅很触动，“她可能并不知道我们在干什么，或许只是因为我们穿着制服，给了她信心。
"She probably didn't know what we were doing, perhaps because we were wearing uniforms and gave her confidence," he said.
”有时，这种力量也来自被他们守护着的医护人员。
Sometimes it comes from the health-care workers they guard.
有一天在火神山医院巡查时，李长春看到，一名女军医在隔离病区出现身体不适，被紧急换下。
One day in the fire god mountain hospital inspection, Li Changchun saw, a female military doctor in the quarantine area of the body discomfort, was urgently replaced.
疲惫不堪的女军医脱下防护服，脸上挂满了愧疚，嘴里连声说，“不好意思，真丢人。
The jaded medical woman took off her protective clothing, her face covered with guilt, and said, "I'm sorry, shame on you.
”李长春很感慨，“她都（累成）那样了，她还觉得不好意思。
"Li Changchun was impressed." She was so tired that she felt embarrassed.
”这两天，随着病患救治压力减轻，不少援鄂医疗队陆续撤离，武昌区消防员们的任务栏里又多了一项——护送医护人员返程。
"Over the past two days, as the pressure to treat the patients eased and many medical teams left, firefighters in Wuchang added another item to their taskbar -- escorting medical personnel back home.
消防队员曾鸣记得，3月17日上午，武昌区消防队开往机场的大巴车内热闹了一路，青海的医护人员欢迎他们到青海吃羊肉、看青海湖，队员们则邀请对方疫情过后再来武汉，吃热干面、看樱花。
Firefighters once recalled that on the morning of March 17, the fire brigade in Wuchang District to the airport busy all the way inside the bus, Qinghai medical personnel welcome them to Qinghai to eat mutton, see Qinghai Lake, the team members invited the other side after the epidemic situation to Wuhan, eat hot-and-dry noodles, see cherry.
3月17日，武昌区消防员帮启程离汉的青海医疗队搬运行李。
March 17, Wuchang District Firemen help the departure of the Qinghai medical team from Han luggage.
受访者供图不久前，雷神山医院A区走廊的涂鸦，在网上火了一阵。
A short time ago, graffiti from the A-section hallway of Lui Shenshan Hospital caught fire online.
从全国各地来援助雷神山医院的医护人员们，在繁重的工作之余，在原本空无一物的白墙上，画卡通版的医生护士，画各自家乡的美景和心心念念的美食……在日夜奋战的“战场”上，他们许下简单的愿望——“愿山河无恙，人间皆安”。
From all over the country to help Lei Shenshan Hospital medical personnel, after heavy work, in the otherwise empty white wall, drawing cartoons of doctors and nurses, painting the beauty of their home towns and mind of food... in the "battleground", they made a simple wish - "May the mountains and rivers be safe and sound."
在某个角落，雷神山消防救援站的一位年轻队员也画了涂鸦，那是一对消防员和护士的背影，一左一右伸出的两只手，合在一起比出了个心形。
In one corner, a young member of the Raytheon Hill fire station also drew graffiti, the back of a pair of firefighters and nurses, two hands protruding from left to right, together forming a heart.
彭青松说，这“画”里有话：“他们（医护人员）在守护病人、救治病人，我们既在守护病人，同时也在保卫他们的安全。
Peng said the painting had something to say: "They [the medical staff] are guarding the sick, treating the sick, and protecting their safety as well.
”雷神山医院走廊涂鸦墙上的卡通画。
A cartoon on a graffiti wall in the hallway of Raytheon Hospital.
受访者供图洋葱话题▼你想对在汉消防员说什么？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell the class what you want to say to the Han firefighter / Why don't you join the reading group 'The Onion King' The Quanzhou Isolation Hotel collapsed: add layer alterations, identify flaws, was punished several times.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线消防员：从火神山到社区，在疫情前线防控。
Wuhan first-line firefighter: from the mountain to the community, in the front line of the epidemic prevention and control.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "武汉一线消防员：从火神山到社区，在疫情前线防控";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan first-line firefighter: From Mars to the community, at the front line of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "他们和300名援汉消防队员一起，和整座城市一起，翘首期盼疫情的结束。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with 300 Chinese firefighters, they joined the city in waiting for the end of the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚',。
AT & amp; quanzhou's collapse: retrofitting, identifying defects, and having been repeatedly penalized and killed.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”',。
At RileyGuijin Hospital ICU Medical Director Fang Minghao: Seriously treated like Rangers & amp; Aposs;.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转',。
Express and delivery in the epidemic: We are at work at Running & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
