我在武汉隔离区做安保，偶尔想想女儿、家乡和狱中往事。
I do security in the Wuhan isolation zone, occasionally thinking about my daughter, home and prison past.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
BIE别的                      。
BIE Other.
BIE别的。
BIE Other.
异视异色。
Heterogeneous colors.
27 岁的大白做隔离区的夜班安保已有一个多月了。
27-year-old Dabai has been providing night security in the exclusion zone for more than a month.
他没想到的是，自去年十月底从宜昌监狱出狱后，这竟是他最稳定、长久的一份工作。
What he did not expect was that it would be his most secure and long-term job since his release from Yichang prison at the end of October.
武汉封城后，各行业纷纷停摆。
Wuhan after the closure of various industries have stopped.
从周边城市来武汉的大白找不到工作，在汉阳区一张 25 元一天的床铺上一动不动地躺了四天，“没吃的，还欠了两天的房租，一些武汉网友知道之后，就说希望我能帮他们跑跑腿、拿拿快递什么的。
After spending four days motionless on a 25-yuan-a-day bunk in Hanyang district, some Wuhan netizens who knew that they had no food and owed two days' rent said they wished I could run errands and get express delivery.
”再骑上共享单车，街上已空无一人，为了到达散布在这座巨大城市各处的网友家里，大白一直在穿过各种形态的大桥、来来回回地跨越雾气弥漫的江面，“二七桥、二桥、大桥、杨泗桥…加起来骑了起码有八百公里，最长的一次，一口气骑了三十多公里，那种感觉忘不掉。
The streets were deserted on shared bikes, and in order to reach the netizens' homes scattered all over the huge city, Bai had been crossing bridges of all shapes and crossing the foggy river. "27 bridges, 2 bridges, bridges, Siqiao Yang... together rode at least 800 kilometers, the longest one, more than 30 kilometers at a stretch.
”大白拍下的桥空城武汉一次帮网友跑腿，对方特地给他准备了一份盒饭，大白把盒饭给了一个在广场上的陌生人，“那人在那坐着锤凳子，四十岁左右，不像流浪汉，但能看出来已经几顿没吃了。
The other party specially prepared a box of rice for a stranger in the square. "The man was sitting on a hammer stool, about forty years old, and, unlike a tramp, he could see that he had not eaten for several meals.
”网友给大白准备的盒饭初五，大白得到了另一份工作：摆摊卖口罩。
"Net friend to the big white prepared box of rice on the fifth day, white got another job: put up a stall to sell masks.
口罩很薄，几乎透明，“进价五块一袋，那人叫我卖二十，就在中百超市门口摆摊，这也太丢人了，还好大家都戴着口罩。
"The mask was thin and almost transparent." The man told me to sell it for twenty dollars and set it up in front of a supermarket.
”有的武汉阿姨嘴快，拿起口罩看看，就说，小伙子你可真缺德，发国难财，“我说，这个也不是我卖的，是帮别人，她说，你这么好人？大冷天的帮别人卖？”口罩的生意大白就干了一个下午，原因是他 “老瞎搞”。
"Some aunt Wuhan quick-mouthed, picked up a mask to see, said," I am not selling this, is to help others, she said, you are so good? "Mask business publicity on the afternoon, because he" always nonsense.
“一个老头，不会用支付宝微信，身上只有一张一百的、一张十块的，我也没钱找，怎么搞？就收个十块吧。
"An old man who can't use a pay-per-view letter has only one hundred and ten dollars on him, and I don't have the money to look for it.
人家那么老了，总不好意思不卖吧。
People are so old, they are always embarrassed not to sell it.
” 晚上摊主回来，一点发现货少了，“他没说什么，给了我一百块钱，后来我也不敢去了，我怕警察，警察这俩字我都怕。
"When the man returned that evening, he found that the goods were short." He didn't say anything, so he gave me a hundred dollars, and then I didn't dare to go.
”卖口罩有风险，跑腿不稳定，直到有网友告诉大白，现在去当志愿者，挣钱多，还包吃住，大白被点醒，成了一名隔离区夜班安保。
"There was a risk of selling masks, erratic errands, until a netizen told Dabai, now to work as a volunteer, more money, but also eat and live, Bai Bai was awakened, a night security area.
2 月 8 号，大白通过中介来到江汉区一座被征用于隔离的党校，对方承诺 “每天两百四、一周一结、工作简单、可玩手机。
February 8, Dabai through the intermediary to a Jianghan district was recruited for quarantine, the other side promised "a day, a week knot, simple work, can play mobile phones.
”这是一幢十层楼房，病人被安置在六楼到九楼，总共可容纳约 160名病人。
It was a ten-story building, and the patient was placed on the sixth to ninth floor, with a total capacity of about 160 patients.
隔离区的走廊可能是因为刚被征用，房间里只有一张光秃秃的床，床单被套、卫生纸都没有配齐。
The corridor in the area of separation may be due to a newly requisitioned room with only a bare bed and sheets covered in sheets and toilet paper.
刚来的老人，第一件事就是给自己铺床，大白在旁边看着，想到上班之前领导严肃强调过的话：很多事情你以为你是在做好人，万一你跟病人接触，一感染，要把大家全害掉了，千万别碰病人，也不要进病人的房间。
The first thing for a new comer is to make his own bed, look around and think about what the leader has said seriously before work: Many things you think you are doing well. If you come into contact with a patient and get infected, do not touch the patient or enter the patient's room.
“看住病人别乱跑”，这本是大白清单上唯一一项任务。
"Watch the patients don't run," which was the only task on the white list.
“开始，我是想着，干完我分内的活、拿钱、完事”，可后来大白发现，所谓的规定和职责范围更像是一条单方面的免责协议，现实情况的复杂和管理的混乱让界限不得不开始松动。
"To begin with, I was thinking of doing my duty, getting the money, the work done," only to discover later that the so-called rules and terms of reference were more like a unilateral disclaimer, and the complexity of reality and the confusion of regulations had to begin to loosen.
大白被告知，除了安保，隔离点还有负责收垃圾、打水、发饭、消毒的保洁岗位，“他们说安保坐在那里不动，看着病人就行了，可是我们从来没见过保洁。
In addition to security, Bai was told, there were also cleaning posts for garbage collection, fetching water, serving food and disinfecting. "They said the guards were just sitting there, looking at the patients, but we had never seen cleaning.
如果病人拜托你去打个水，你就能坐在那里一动不动吗？”其次，24 小时值班的只有一名医生和一名护士，无法照顾到老年、糖尿病、无家属病人的需求。
If the patient asks you to go and fetch water, can you sit there motionless? "Second, there is only one doctor and one nurse on 24-hour duty, unable to attend to the needs of elderly, diabetic, and bereaved patients.
大白跟病人家属的聊天实际上，当班的第二天，大白就进了病人的房间。
In fact, on the second day of the shift, Daylight went into the patient's room.
“我当时和另一份安保当班，送一个老大爷去房间，我跟他聊天，说现在党校条件不是很好，生活物资需要家里来送，大爷就很平淡地说，老伴已经因为这个病走掉了，儿子、儿媳都被隔离在别的地方，没有人管他。
"I was on duty with another security guard, sent an old man to his room, and I talked to him, saying that conditions were not very good at the party school and that the supplies needed to be delivered from home.
大爷问我们，能不能帮他铺一下床，我就进去帮他铺了。
He asked us if we could help him make his bed, so I went in and helped him out.
”这样逾越规则的事情不止发生过一次：一位阿姨确诊了，但却没地方收治，社区让找医生，医生又说要社区出示证明才能来接人。
This transgression occurred more than once: an aunt was diagnosed, but there was no room for treatment, and the community asked for a doctor, who said the community needed a certificate to pick them up.
阿姨在这个死循环里急的团团转，大白跟她商量好，带她下楼，自己跟前台谎称，病人太激动，一下没拦住她，“等于我俩排了一出戏，闹完第二天，这个阿姨就转移到医院了，她后来跟我讲，小伙子，要是我病好了，我一定得请你吃个饭。
Auntie in the dead cycle in the rapid round and round, Bai Bai with her to negotiate, take her downstairs, he lied to the table, the patient is too excited, did not stop her, "We lined up for a play, the next day, the aunt moved to the hospital, she told me later, young man, if I recover, I must treat you to a meal.
”“还有一位糖尿病患者，他需要每天自己注射胰岛素，管我要酒精消毒。
"" And a diabetic who needs to inject himself with insulin every day and sterilize me with alcohol.
第一次，我跑了十几分钟跑上跑下才弄来半杯酒精，他又问我有没有棉签，肯定是没有的，第二天，我自己在外面买了给他。
The first time, I ran up and down for ten minutes before I got half a cup of alcohol. He asked me if I had a cotton one, which I certainly didn't have.
四五天之后，酒精用完了，他又问我要。
Four or five days later, when the alcohol was gone, he asked me again.
我先是找医生要，医生让我找接待，接待说没有，医生又让我拿对讲机找指挥部，指挥部对我爱答不理，我实在忍不住，骂了几句，当天晚上，就有人找到我，说我这个性格不适合呆在这里。
First I asked the doctor, the doctor asked me to find a reception, the doctor said no, the doctor asked me to use the walkie-talkie to find the command headquarters, I can not help but curse a few words, that night, someone came to me and said that my character is not suitable to stay here.
”大白把这归咎于自己 “没上过什么班”，所以 “不知道什么话该讲不该讲，也不知道谁是领导，有时候脾气来了，更顾不了”。
"Plaintiff blames himself for" no class, "so" I don't know what to say, I don't know who the leader is, sometimes I get angry and I don't care. "
他以前靠着 “好到爆的人脉” 做生意，理解不了疫区这种上传下达、环环相扣的运作方式。
He used to do business on "good to exploding connections" and couldn't understand the way the epidemic was passed on and around the world.
按大白的说法，“他们说的那些规定（不能接触、不让进房间）当然有道理，你不能说他没道理，但你在那儿，看见那些老人，你没办法那么弄。
To put it bluntly, "The rules they say (no access, no room) certainly make sense. You can't call him unreasonable, but you're there, you see those old people, you can't do that.
”时间拨回到去年十月底，那时，大白刚出狱，和妻子、女儿在常州生活，因为有案底，找不到长期工，靠着一天一百多的日结勉强养活三个人。
"The time went back to the end of October, when he had just got out of prison and was living in Changzhou with his wife and daughter.
今年元旦，一家人来到武汉谋生，但生活并没有改观，1 月 7 号，大白准备去武汉某医院应征临床志愿者，试用一种叫做 “盐酸伊托必利片” 的药，“要在医院住两三天，能挣六千块钱”。
This New Year's Day, the family came to Wuhan to make a living, but life has not improved. January 7, Dabai prepared to go to a Wuhan hospital for clinical volunteers, try a drug called "Aitobili hydrochloride tablets," "to stay in hospital for two or three days, can earn 6,000 yuan.
那天的事，大白记得很清楚。
The events of that day are well remembered.
他刚坐上了地铁，妻子就打来电话，说自己带不了孩子，大白中途回家一看，孩子在家，妻子已经离开了。
As soon as he got on the subway, his wife called and said she could not take the children. She went home in the middle of the stream.
“我知道她心里有怨气，我在监狱里的两年都是她一个人带孩子，出来之后，挣不到钱，一去打工，还是得她带孩子。
"I know she has a grudge in her heart. I spent two years in prison alone with my children, and when I came out, I couldn't earn enough money to work, so I had to take care of my children.
”没派上用场的试药知情书1 月 10 号，大白把孩子送回老家给妈妈带，次日独自返回武汉打工，“我当时想着还有十多天过年，在武汉打打工，攒个两千块回去交差。
The test drug did not come in handy On January 10, Dayang Bai sent the child home to his mother and returned to Wuhan the next day to work as a part-time labourer.
”大白不知道妻子这一走算不算跟他离婚了，因为他们还没结婚。
"Da Bai did not know that his wife's departure did not count against his divorce, because they were not married.
女儿出生的那一年，大白刚到结婚法定年龄，97 年的妻子还没到，所以女儿一直是 “黑户”。
The year of her daughter's birth, she had just reached the legal age of marriage, and the wife of 97 had not yet arrived, so her daughter had always been "black."
他想赶紧弄好女儿的户口，办户口需要先做亲子鉴定，做亲子鉴定就需要两千块。
He wants to hasten to do a good job of daughter's account, account needs to do parent identification, do paternity test needs 2000 yuan.
离开时家人嘱咐他，今年除夕一定回家过年—— 大白已经三年没回家过年了。
As he left, his family told him that he must go home for the New Year's Eve this year--it had been three years since he returned home.
“主要是为了我爷爷，他因为我入狱这事儿受了点刺激，每次在路边走，看见车就要拦，说是要打车去监狱里看我”。
"Mainly for my grandfather, he was a little excited about my imprisonment, every time I walked along the road, I would stop the car and say I wanted to take a taxi to see me in prison.
1 月 23 号，武汉封城，大白那天早上八点醒的，“看见凌晨政府发的通告，还有两个小时就封城”。
January 23, the city of Wuhan, Dabai woke up at 8 a.m., "see the early morning notice issued by the government, the city is closed in two hours."
他蹬了三个小时骑到光谷区的出城通道，看到人潮都在往回折返，道路几乎被堵死，一个信息传来：已经出不去了。
After pedalling for three hours to the exit of the Valley of Light, he saw crowds turning back, roads almost blocked, and a message that he could not get out.
大白在党校隔离点干了一个星期就干不下去了，2 月 15 号，他换到了另一个隔离点，原是江汉区的一家四星酒店。
After a week at the party school isolation center, he was unable to work any more. On February 15th, he moved to another seclusion, a four-star hotel in Jianghan district.
入职当天，他接到第一个任务，去协和医院接做完核酸检测的病人。
On his first assignment on duty, he went to Concorde Hospital to receive a DNA test.
大白回忆，那是他第一次体会到秩序。
It was the first time he had felt order.
当时协和医院的人不多，一切井井有条，“隔离区划分出来了，方舱医院也建起了，人就不会一股脑儿地往医院跑了”。
There were not many people in the Concorde Hospital at that time. Everything was in order. The colony was partitioned off, the cabin hospital was built, and people were not going to run off to the hospital.
相比党校，酒店的条件比较优越，每一户都可以自己烧热水、床单铺盖充足、病人有营养餐。
Compared with the Party school, the hotel conditions are better, each family can burn their own hot water, enough bedspread, the patient has nutritious meals.
四名安保被分成日间和夜间两个小组，共同负责一个楼层。
The four guards were divided into two groups, day and night, covering one floor.
大白和他的室友负责晚八点到早八点的夜间，换班时间可以彼此协调。
Da Bai and his roommate are responsible for the night between 8 p. m. and 8 a. m. The shift can be coordinated with each other.
唯一没有改观的，是安保们的防护服，“鞋套是家用的，防护服基本上属于透明的那种，大家都是从外包中介那里过来的，没有合同。
The only thing that didn't change was the guards' protective clothing. "The shoe covers are for domestic use, the suits are basically transparent, everyone comes from the outsourcing agent and there is no contract.
”大白的装备前两天，大白觉得自己被感染了，他求助于在线问诊的医生：“感觉胸口有点难受，没有其他的症状了，但前几天有个老婆婆呼吸困难、走路困难，我扶她上的救护车”。
Two days before his outfits, Dayang said he felt infected and went to an online doctor: "I feel a little sick in my chest and have no other symptoms, but the other day an old woman had difficulty breathing and walking and I helped her in the ambulance.
医生只能建议他 “联系医生做胸部 CT”，大白的顾虑则是：“万一做了没事，没地方报销”。
Doctors can only advise him to "contact a doctor for a chest CT," the obvious concern is: "In case it's okay, there is no place to reimburse."
过了几天大白告诉我，自己没得病，是天天戴着口罩，给戴缺氧了。
After a few days to tell me that he did not get sick, is wearing a mask every day, to wear hypoxia.
没事儿的时候，大白会想在老家的女儿，但关于女儿的记忆，大多只是自己曾经好境遇的一种佐证，“那时候花钱都不知道怎么个花法，买那种一支五六百的硅胶奶瓶，衣服买那种竹纤维套装，一套就一千块钱”。
When it was all right, he would think of his daughter back home, but the memory of her was mostly a testament to her good fortune. "At that time, I didn't know how to spend my money.
除此之外，他也承认自己“爱玩，没怎么带过小孩”。
On top of that, he admitted he was "playful and seldom had children."
跟大白一起当志愿者的，大多都是没钱的、欠债的、外省被困的。
With the public when the volunteers, most are no money, debt, provincial trapped.
尤其是到了现在这个阶段，武汉封城一个多月了，这场战役到了令人疲惫的中场，一些本就处于边缘的人们正面临着真正意义上的弹尽粮绝。
Especially at this stage, Wuhan closed the city for more than a month, this battle to the tired midfield, some people are already on the brink of a real shortage of food.
“原来这种志愿者工作大家都怕，后来发现武汉只有这种工作，现在大家都想找。
"Originally this kind of volunteer work everybody feared, later discovered Wuhan only this kind of work, now everybody wants to look for.
”大白能很敏锐地感受到这个供需关系发生颠倒的时间 —— 2 月 24 号，那天，中介在群里说，要把一天 240 元的报酬压到一天 220 元，“他直接讲白了，你要是不做你就走，大把的人在后面排队”。
"On Feb. 24, when the broker was in the group, he said he wanted to keep the 240 yuan a day down to 220 yuan a day." He made it clear that if you don't, lots of people will stand in line. "
工友们在群里对中介压价表示不满没有医保，没有社保，大白这样的志愿者徘徊在被市场和中间商们操控着的地盘上。
Workers in the group to express dissatisfaction with the intermediary price no health care, no social security, such as white volunteers wandering in the market and the control of the brokers.
令人心有所感的是，大白曾经也是一名 “中间商”。
What makes people feel is that Da Bai was also a "middleman."
他从需要用钱的人手中收购空白的银行卡，再以两倍的价格倒卖给福建的二道商人，银行卡最后流到东南亚赌场的中国客户手中，用以洗钱或赌博。
He buys blank bank cards from people who need money and resells them at twice the price to second-tier Fujian businessmen, and the cards end up in the hands of Chinese clients in casinos in Southeast Asia to launder money or gamble.
最终，这份 “事业”让大白因“掩饰隐瞒非法犯罪所得” 入狱两年。
In the end, the "cause" gave him two years in prison for "concealing the proceeds of an illegal crime."
出狱的前一天晚上，大白发现电视剧里那种出狱前夜的激动 “太夸张了”，“我就觉得没有什么激动的，老婆接我出狱，一路上一句话都没得说”。
The night before I got out of jail, I found the excitement of the TV show on the eve of my release "exaggerated." I didn't feel excited, "he said.
再见到女儿，大白抱了她一下，“好像也说不上什么感觉”。
See daughter again, big white hugged her a bit, "also don't seem to say what feeling".
封城时刻，大白的第一反应是 “没什么的，又不是要被枪毙”。
The first reaction to the closure was "nothing, not to be shot".
对中介的压价，大白一开始很愤怒，再问时，他挺平淡地告诉我，缩水的工资已经拿了一个多星期了。
The price of the intermediary, big white is angry at first, when asked again, he told me flatly that the wages have been shrinking for more than a week.
用大白的话总结：“再苦的事情当你面临的时候，它也没那么苦，再开心幸福的事儿你面临的时候，它也开心幸福不到哪里去”。
Summarize it in plain words: "No matter how hard it is when you are faced with it, it is not so hard, no matter how happy and happy you are when you are faced with it.
在酒店时，大白做了一个梦：警察找到他，说，不好意思，我们放错人了，你还得回去。
At the hotel, Da Bai had a dream: the police found him, said, sorry, we put the wrong person, you have to go back.
“要么是自己还在里面，要么是又被带回去，经常做这种梦”。
"Either they are still inside, or they are taken back, often do this dream."
大白在工作在服刑时，大家一起生产一种电缆，每个人要学会扮演流水线上的一道工序，然后在余下的刑期里不停地重复、重复、重复。
Everyone learns to act as a choreographer on the assembly line and repeat, repeat and repeat for the rest of the sentence.
大白身处流程的末端，负责检查电缆的端面，“没坏的直接过，坏的挑出来”。
White at the end of the process, responsible for checking the end of the cable, "not bad directly, bad pick out."
光纤源源不断地涌过来，一天一万根，像另一种亟待收割的庄稼，大白觉得不错，视线被占有着、手能动着，没时间无聊，也让人感到安全。
Fiber optics poured in, ten thousand a day, like another crop in need of harvesting, feeling good, with its eyes occupied and its hands moving, no time to be bored, and a sense of security.
“比看守所强多了，那里边三十个平方住 20 个人，找不到一块儿能盯着的空白，动不动就跟别人眼睛对上了，对得不爽，还得打一架。
"It's a lot better than a detention centre, where there are thirty squares where twenty people live, and there's not a blank space to stare at.
”一点钟，要 “上大夜” 了，室友回房间交班，大白下到自己工作的楼层，在电梯口的折叠椅上坐下。
At one o'clock, it was "big night," and the roommate returned to his room, went down to his floor and sat down on the folding chair at the entrance to the elevator.
他什么也不想，也不玩手机，就在那儿坐着，觉得眼前的事儿好像也没什么不一样，然后平静地，陷入空白的视野里。
He didn't want to do anything, he didn't play with his cell phone, just sat there, feeling as if there was nothing different, then calmly, into a void.
// 编辑：Alexwood，刘阳子在这次疫情中，你是否被迫改变了自己的生活习惯，你和周围的人产生了怎样新的关系，你获得了哪些观察和思考？如果你有想法想要分享，请发送电子邮件到 tougao@yishiyise.com，注明 “武汉呼叫”，我们的编辑看到后可能会与你联系。
/ / Editor: Alexwood, Yoko Liu In this epidemic, have you been forced to change your habits, what new relationships have you had with the people around you, and what observations and reflections you have gained? If you have any ideas to share, please send an e-mail to tugao @ yishiyise.com, saying "Wuhan Call," and our editor may contact you when he sees it.
2019 年年末的时候我们希望每个人都能在 2020 年更脚踏实地一点，而 2020 如此凶猛，当我们都困在这场灾难之中，每一个你身边的故事带来的感受或许都将指向我们的未来。
By the end of 2019, we want everyone to be a little more down-to-earth by 2020, when we are all trapped in this disaster, and the stories around you may point to our future.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在武汉隔离区做安保，偶尔想想女儿、家乡和狱中往事。
I do security in the Wuhan isolation zone, occasionally thinking about my daughter, home and prison past.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "BIE别的";。
Var nickname = & quot; BIE & quot;;
var msg_title = "我在武汉隔离区做安保，偶尔想想女儿、家乡和狱中往事";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I worked as a security guard at Wuhan ZOS, occasionally remembering my daughter, my hometown and prison.;
var msg_desc = "“原来这种工作大家都怕，后来发现武汉只有这种工作，现在大家都想找。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Everyone was afraid of such a job; it turned out that Wuhan had only such a job, and now everyone wants it.
报酬从一天 240 块压到 220 块，还是大把人在后面排队”。
From 240 dollars a day to 220 bucks a day, there are still tons of people lining up behind.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '惊魂记：我疑似感染新冠肺炎的两周',。
at & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '对疫情的结构性反思，是我们送给每个人的武器',。
A structural rethinking of the epidemic was the weapon we gave everyone at & apos; s service.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
title: '隔离记 （终)',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: 'BIE别的',。
Subject _ name: & apos; BIE & amp; apos;;,
var title ="BIE别的";。
var title = & quot; BIE & quot;;
