对话宁毅：武汉最迟到四月底就应解禁，否则容易引发许多次生灾害。
Dialogue Ning Yi: Wuhan should be lifted by the end of April at the latest, otherwise it will easily cause many secondary disasters.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
近日，中国疫情趋于平缓，部分地区开始清零；与此同时，大量人口从国外入境，跨上归国旅程，各地口岸面临压力。
In recent days, the epidemic in China has levelled off and parts of the country have begun to disappear.
随着国际疫情进入下半场，中国应当如何应对境外病例输入？这是否会影响中国目前取得的抗疫成果？这场疫情将持续到何时？按照目前的证据，气温升高是否有可能帮助遏制疫情？武汉何时能解禁？去口罩复工是否会成为常态？……以下是丁香园与北京大学美年公众健康研究院执行院长教授宁毅的对话。
As the international epidemic enters the second half of the year, how should China respond to the importation of cases from abroad? Will this affect China's current achievements in fighting the epidemic? When will the epidemic continue? When will Wuhan lift the ban? Will the resumption of mask work become the norm?
丁香园：3 月 11 日，世卫组织宣布新型冠状病毒进入全球大流行状态，早在二月下旬，国际上已有多名流行病学专家表示疫情已满足构成全球大流行条件。
Lilac Garden: On March 11, WHO announced that the new coronavirus has entered a global pandemic. As early as late February, several international epidemiologists said that the epidemic had met the conditions for a global pandemic.
您认为 WHO 的宣布动作是否偏晚？如果宣布时间提前，是否能够更好地警示各国应对疫情？宁毅：其实世卫组织在宣布全球大流行之前，行动就已经比较积极了。
Do you think the WHO's announcement is too late? If it is announced earlier, will it better alert countries to the epidemic? Ning: WHO was already more active before the global pandemic was announced.
虽然没有用到 Pandemic 这个词，但已经多次发出预警，提醒各国不要忽略疫情可能带来的巨大不利影响。
Although the word Pandemic has not been used, warnings have been issued on several occasions to remind States not to ignore the potentially significant adverse impact of the outbreak.
至于「如果宣布时间提前，能否更好地警示各国应对疫情」这个问题，我想从某种角度上来说，世卫组织只是一个技术型的多边组织，并没有足够大的权力约束各国采取强有力的措施遏制疫情。
As for the question of "better alerting countries to the epidemic if announced earlier," I think WHO is, in a way, a technical multilateral organization that does not have enough power to restrain countries from taking strong measures to contain the epidemic.
在此之前，世界各国应该更好地沟通和协调努力。
Until then, the nations of the world should better communicate and coordinate their efforts.
丁香园：英国首席科学顾问 Patrick Vallance 表示「考虑长期防控目标，要让足够多的英国人被感染，即群体免疫」。
Lilac Garden: Patrick Vallance, chief science adviser in the UK, said: "Consider the long-term goal of getting enough people in the UK to get infected - mass immunization."
您如何看待英国的「群体免疫」策略？宁毅：面对疫情，世界各国有三种策略可以选择：第一种，像我们国家一样，以消灭病毒为目的，对病毒围追堵截；第二种，设法延缓疫情的发展，等待疫苗或特效药的出现；第三种，相信高温环境能抑制病毒，寄希望于气温的上升。
What do you think of the UK's mass immunization strategy? Ning: In the face of the epidemic, countries around the world have three strategies to choose from. First, like our country, they should seek to stop the virus from spreading, waiting for a vaccine or specific drug to emerge.
英国目前的病例比较散发，动员起来，消耗资源比较多，民众也不一定支持，实行第一种策略的难度会比较大，而第三种策略又太不稳定，所以只能采取第二种策略。
In the UK, where current cases are more widely distributed, mobilized, resource-intensive, and not necessarily supported by the population, the first strategy would be more difficult to implement and the third too unstable, so the second strategy would have to be pursued.
所谓「群体免疫」，其实指的就是第二种策略最坏的结果：一直没有特效药或疫苗，只能通过让大多数人感染以度过疫情。
"Group immunization," in fact, refers to the worst-case outcome of the second strategy: no specific drugs or vaccines have been available, but only by infecting most people to survive the epidemic.
英国目前有六千六百多万人口，要实现群体免疫，需要其中 60% 的人被感染，即近四千万人感染。
The UK, with a population of more than 66 million, needs 60% of the population, or nearly 40 million people, to be vaccinated.
这四千万人里，又有很多有基础疾病的患者或老年人，他们的病死率是比较高的，所以在达到 60% 的自然群体免疫比例之前，也不能很好保护老人。
These 40 million people, many with basic illnesses or elderly people, have relatively high mortality rates, so they will not be able to protect the elderly well until they reach the 60% of the natural population.
不过我们发现，在科学家讲出这个最坏结果后，英国民众反而自发地开始关闭学校、取消集会，做好隔离、预防工作。
But we found that, after scientists told the worst, the British people spontaneously began to close schools, cancel rallies, segregate and prevent.
所以，这可能也是英国政府调动民众抗疫积极性的一种「战术」。
So it may also be a "tactic" used by the British government to mobilize the public against the disease.
丁香园：您认为日本目前疫情控制如何？宁毅：从日本确诊人数的上升曲线来看，可以说已经比较成功地延缓了疫情的发展。
Lilac Garden: What do you think about the control of the epidemic in JapanNing: Judging by the rising number of cases diagnosed in Japan, it can be said that the epidemic has been relatively successful in slowing the development of the epidemic.
我认为这得益于以下几点：1. 国民的卫生习惯良好；2. 整个国家有不断经历各种灾难的经验，能够做出比较好的应对；3. 有丰富的人均医疗资源和运作良好的分级诊疗制度；4. 政府能够比较好地管理民众的恐慌；5. 国民能在确诊后自觉做好居家隔离。
In my opinion, this is due to the following: 1. good hygienic habits of the people; 2. the experience of the whole country experiencing various kinds of disasters and being able to respond better; 3. having abundant per capita medical resources and a well-functioning tiered medical system; 4. the government being able to better manage panic among the population; and 5.
这其中有很多值得我们学习的地方。
There is a lot to learn from this.
但是日本的病死率是不低的，高达 3.3%，这说明有很多潜在的患者并没有接受检测。
But Japan has a high fatality rate of 3.3 percent, suggesting that many potential patients are not being tested.
我们可以再等两个星期，看日本是否在延缓疾病进程的时候，能够很好控制疾病，数据看，疫情在未来有抬头的可能。
We can wait another two weeks to see if Japan is in a good position to control the disease as it slows the disease.
另外，我个人认为，即使日本疫情能在夏天得到控制，奥运会也很难如期按照计划的规模举行了，因为日本政府现行的政策下无法给出有力的证据，证明参赛者和观赛者被感染的风险足够低，同时，参赛选手国家的流行也很可能未得到很好控制。
In addition, I personally think that even if the Japanese epidemic were contained in the summer, it would be difficult to hold the Games on schedule, because the current Japanese government policy does not provide strong evidence that the risk of infection is sufficiently low for competitors and spectators, and that the epidemic in the competitors' countries is likely to be poorly controlled.
丁香园：我国的疫情已经趋于平缓，部分地区开始清零，与此同时，国际疫情才刚刚进入下半场，仍有愈演愈烈的趋势，这是否会影响中国目前取得的抗疫成果？宁毅：在预防输入病例方面，我们有着丰富的经验，像之前的埃博拉病毒、H7N9 禽流感，我们都守得非常好。
At the same time, the international epidemic is just entering the second half of the world and there is still a growing trend, which will affect China's current achievements in fighting against epidemic affairs.Ning: We have a lot of experience in preventing imported cases, like Ebola and H7N9 avian influenza.
这次虽然会付出一定的代价，但还是能够守住的。
Although this time will pay a certain price, but still be able to hold on.
即便有少数的输入病例引发流行，我相信也能将它控制在很小的范围内，但是，入境口岸成为防疫的前沿，是一个非常关键的新战役。
Even with a small number of imported cases causing the epidemic, I believe it can be contained to a very small extent, but ports of entry have become the frontline of epidemic prevention, a very crucial new battle.
目前来看，整个国际社会需要对疫情形成一个统一的控制策略，这一点非常重要。
For now, it is important that the international community as a whole develop a unified control strategy for the epidemic.
有的国家以消灭病毒为目的，有的国家希望通过群体免疫度过危机，后者就可能给前者的入境口岸造成巨大的压力。
Some countries aim to eliminate the virus, while others wish to survive the crisis through group immunization, which may put enormous pressure on the ports of entry of the former.
各个国家需要在技术层面上达成共识：彻底消灭这个病毒还是保持在低流行的状态是最佳选择？但从中国现有的经验看，依靠强有力的隔离和治疗是能够遏制疫情的，但其他国家可能就比较难。
Countries need to agree at the technical level whether total elimination of the virus or a low-prevalence status is the best option, but China's current experience shows that strong isolation and treatment can contain the epidemic, but other countries may find it more difficult.
当然，要达成这个统一也很困难，需要世卫组织和几个主要大国共同协商努力。
Of course, achieving this unification will also be difficult, requiring a concerted effort by WHO and several major powers.
丁香园：近日大量华人、华侨跨上归国旅程，北京、上海、深圳、广州等地入境口岸压力骤增，目前北京已经要求对入境人员统一进行新冠病毒检测，您认为其他地区是否有必要也采取这一措施？宁毅：据我所知，现在大部分城市事实上已经在对入境人员进行统一检测。
Lilac Garden: Recently, a large number of Chinese and overseas Chinese have made their way back to China, and the pressure at the ports of entry to Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou has increased dramatically.
随着我国病例的减少和国外病例的激增，输入病例对我们的威胁已经相当于当初武汉对其他城市的影响，所以我国抗疫的战略目标逐渐从「围绕武汉打歼灭战」转向「重点管理入境口岸，严防输入病例」。
With the decrease of the number of cases in China and the increase of cases abroad, the threat to us from imported cases is comparable to that of other cities in Wuhan, so the strategic goal of fighting epidemic in China has been gradually changed from "Destroying War around Wuhan" to "Key ports of entry to strictly prevent imported cases."
我们国家当前的目的是保持零病例，而且已经基本成功了，但依然有很多我们无法决定的因素会影响我们的成果。
Our country's current goal is to maintain zero cases, and it has been largely successful, but there are still many factors that we cannot determine that will affect our results.
所以在入境管理方面的策略，我认为取决于以下三点：1. 国际疫情形势的变化，这是我们需要长时间评估的；2. 我们的入境口岸能否对如此大量的回流人口做出百分之百的管理？我们还没有动用军队医务人员给与协助；3. 入境的少量病例是否会形成爆发？如果没有爆发或者是可控制的衰减，说明当前的策略能够继续下去。
So the strategy for immigration control, I think, depends on the following three points: 1. Changes in the international epidemic situation, which we need to assess over time; 2. Can our ports of entry provide 100% management of such a large number of returning populations?
当然，海关和部分医院的压力的确会非常大，但我们在海关和医院上的投入相比整个国家可能要付出的代价，所占比还是很小的。
Of course, the pressure on customs and some hospitals can be enormous, but the cost of our spending on customs and hospitals is small compared to the cost to the country as a whole.
想要保住之前的努力成果，这些付出还是值得的。
It's worth the effort to preserve the gains of the past.
我们需要对海关和相应的医院进行支援，就像之前支援武汉一样受到重视。
We need to support the Customs and the corresponding hospitals as much as we have supported Wuhan.
丁香园：目前，多个地区已开始进行复工，近日上海杨浦区发布通知称「各商业企业一律取消原先消费者进店时的测温、扫码、戴口罩要求，原先张贴的二维码全部清除，商场所有大门及通道全部打开，不搞限流」，您认为近期各地「去口罩」是否会成为复工常态？宁毅：首先我认为只要超过 14 天没有新增病例的地区，都是可以复工的，尤其是一些地区的新增病例并不是新发现的，而是来自于疑似病例。
At present, many areas have started to resume work. The Shanghai Yangpu District recently issued a notice saying: "All commercial enterprises have abolished the requirement of temperature measuring, sweeping and wearing face masks when they enter stores.
建设能够及时发现可能传播的防疫能力，比整个国家或者整个城市停下来的代价要低，而且从实战中能进一步加强卫生防疫队伍建设。
Building epidemic prevention capabilities that can detect possible spread in a timely manner is less costly than stopping the entire country or city, and can further strengthen the construction of sanitary and epidemic prevention teams.
目前我们民众对疾病的认识程度已经加强，各地政府也能通过行程管理形成一道防火墙，即使局部地区形成了小的流行，我们也能凭借丰富的经验及时应对。
At present, our people's understanding of the disease has been strengthened, governments around the world can form a firewall through itinerary management, even if the local formation of a small epidemic, we can also rely on rich experience to respond to timely.
至于复工后要不要戴口罩的问题，我认为，让自觉有不适症状的人戴口罩就好，这能省去大部分人戴口罩的麻烦。
As for whether to wear masks after returning to work, I think it would be good for people who are self-conscious and have symptoms to wear masks, which would save most people the trouble of wearing masks.
中国疾控中心 3 月 18 日发布的《公众科学戴口罩指引》也强调，普通公众在无人员聚集、通风良好的家内或户外无需戴口罩，在中低风险、人员密集的办公区域只需随身备用口罩，当与其他人近距离（<1m）接触时再用。
The Guidelines for Wearing Masks in Public Science, issued by the China CDC on March 18, also emphasize that the general public need not wear masks in unstaffed, well-ventilated homes or outdoors, and only need to wear spare masks in low-risk, high-density office areas when in contact with others at close range (& ltm).
丁香园：近期有学者指出「抗疫期间，对天空、道路、车辆、人喷洒消毒液有害无益」，您是否认可这种观点？各地企业、商场复工以后，应当如何正确使用消毒液进行场所消毒？宁毅：这个观点我是认可的。
Lilac Garden: Some scholars recently pointed out that "Spraying disinfectant on the sky, roads, vehicles and people during the period of fighting epidemic is harmful to our health." Do you agree with this view?
对天空、道路喷洒消毒液有什么用呢？消灭气溶胶吗？但其实我们只有在相对密闭的环境中长时间暴露于高浓度气溶胶的情况下才可能被气溶胶感染。
What is the use of aerosol sprays in the sky or on roads? Can aerosols be eliminated? But we can only be infected by aerosols if we are exposed to high concentrations of aerosols for long periods of time in relatively closed environments.
不过公共汽车、企业和商场还是应当消毒的，但私家车就大可不必。
But buses, businesses and shopping malls should still be disinfected, but private cars need not be.
丁香园：按照您的推测，这场疫情将会持续到何时？按照目前的证据，气温升高是否有可能帮助遏制疫情？宁毅：我认为气温上升还是有可能帮助抑制疫情的，理由有以下三点：1. 从目前的数据来看，靠近赤道的国家疫情会更轻一些；2. 17 年前的 SARS 就是在夏天突然消失的；3. 从病原学角度，病毒在高温下致病力会减弱。
According to your calculations, when will the outbreak last? Based on the current evidence, will the rise in temperature help contain the outbreak? Ning: I think it is possible to help contain the epidemic for the following three reasons: 1.
如果这个假设成立，到了夏天全球疫情就会有很大的改观。
If this assumption holds true, the global epidemic could change dramatically in the summer.
不过，病毒仍然可能在靠近两极的寒冷地区或者南半球流行，等到秋冬季节就可能造成新一轮全球大爆发，所以我们还是需要特效药和疫苗。
Still, the virus may still be circulating in cold regions near the poles or in the southern hemisphere, and we will need specific drugs and vaccines until the fall and winter season, when a new global outbreak is likely.
但我觉得当务之急，还是要趁热打铁，尽快解决国内的问题。
But I think it is urgent to take advantage of the hot iron, as soon as possible to solve the domestic problems.
我认为最迟到四月中或四月底，武汉就应该解禁，国内其他地方则要恢复到疫情发生前的秩序，否则就容易引发许多次生灾害，比如武汉人容易产生心理疾病、心血管疾病、肿瘤疾病等。
I think Wuhan should be lifted by the middle of April or the end of April at the latest, and the rest of the country should restore the order it had before the outbreak. Otherwise, Wuhan people are prone to many secondary disasters, such as mental diseases, cardiovascular diseases and oncological diseases.
不过在此之前，我们必须要建立一个机制，当疫情有复燃倾向时能够快速反应。
But before that happens, we have to put in place a mechanism that can react quickly when there is a risk of a recurrence.
从目前的情形来看，建立这种机制的代价比一直持续当前状态的代价要小得多。
As things stand, the cost of establishing such a mechanism is much lower than the cost of continuing the current state of affairs.
后者的代价是按天计算的，晚恢复一天，都会造成巨大的损失。
The cost of the latter is measured in days, and a late recovery would be costly.
丁香园：3 月 16 日，陈薇院士团队研制的重组新冠疫苗获批启动展开临床试验。
Lilac Garden: A recombinant new crown vaccine developed by Academician Chen's team was approved for clinical trials on March 16.
同日美国国家过敏症和传染病研究所宣布，一种新冠病毒疫苗已开始第一阶段临床试验。
On the same day, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases announced that a new crown virus vaccine had begun its first phase of clinical trials.
如果试验成功，这些疫苗至少要多长时间才能大范围临床应用？这能否成为国际疫情控制新的分水岭？宁毅：一般疫苗都需要三期临床试验。
If the trials are successful, how long will it take for these vaccines to be used on a large scale in clinical trials? Will this be a new watershed in international epidemic control? Ning: Three clinical trials are needed for all vaccines.
陈薇院士团队打了第一针，说明已经开始了第一阶段的试验。
Academician Chen's team took the first shot, indicating that the first phase of the trial had begun.
我们现在的很多新闻直接在标题里讲「研制成功」，这是有问题的，因为目前距离能够大范围应用的阶段还是比较远。
Many of our news items now talk directly in the headlines about "developing success," which is problematic because we are still a long way from being able to be used on a large scale.
一般来讲这个过程需要 18 个月以上，即使发生奇迹最少也要半年时间。
Typically, the process takes more than 18 months, and even miracles can take at least six months.
我能理解现在广大人民群众因为对生命的热爱，都非常渴望疫苗或特效药的上市，但疫苗、药物研发上市的这个过程往往是非常残酷的。
I can understand that now the masses of the people because of the love of life, are very eager for vaccines or specific drugs on the market, but the process of vaccine, drug development and marketing is often very cruel.
当你投入大量的人力、物力、财力以后，经常会发现最后的结果让你大失所望：可能是因为效果不如预期，也可能是因为副作用过大。
When you invest a lot of human, material, and financial resources, you often find that the end result can be disappointing: it may be that the results are not as effective as expected, or that the side effects are too large.
所以在疫苗的报道方面，用词一定要谨慎。
So when it comes to reporting on vaccines, use caution.
你刚才提到「分水岭」，我非常喜欢这个词。
You just mentioned "watershed." I like that word very much.
如果疫苗真的能够上市，就会成为一个真正的分水岭，帮助我们化被动为主动。
If the vaccine does go on the market, it will be a real watershed, helping us move from passivity to initiative.
1918 年的流感大流行，就是没有疫苗，最终导致了数千万人丧生，我们不能重复这样的悲剧。
We cannot repeat the tragedy of the 1918 influenza pandemic, when tens of millions of lives were lost because of the lack of a vaccine.
丁香园：此前对于新冠肺炎零号病人身份争论颇多，对于现阶段而言，我们是否仍需要追溯新冠肺炎的零号病人？宁毅：我个人认为追溯零号病人还是比较重要的。
Lilac Garden: There has been a great deal of debate about the identity of No.0 patients with Newcomial Pneumonia before now, do we still need to go back to patients with No.1 pneumonia? Ning: Personally, I think it's more important to go back to patient zero.
我们需要知道这个病是通过哪种野生动物、以什么样的方式传染到我们人类当中的。
We need to know what kind of wildlife it is and how it is transmitted to us.
我们现在怀疑病毒来自蝙蝠或穿山甲，但如果其实来自其他的野生动物，而我们却没有引起相应的警觉，就可能引发下一次的大流行。
We now suspect that the virus comes from bats or pangolins, but if it comes from another wild animal and we don't get the corresponding alert, it could trigger the next pandemic.
只是目前我们最早只能追溯到 12 月 1 日，再往前的证据就很少了。
It is only now that we can trace our steps back to December 1 at the earliest.
现在时间过去了这么久，再破案就更难了。
Now that time has passed, it is even more difficult to solve the case.
我们能做的只有落实好相关的政策，严格管理野生动物。
All we can do is to implement relevant policies and strictly manage wild animals.
题图来源：图虫创意责任编辑：飞腾、gyouza。
Source: Toothworm Creative Responsibility Editor: Flying, gyouza.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
对话宁毅：武汉最迟到四月底就应解禁，否则容易引发许多次生灾害。
Dialogue Ning Yi: Wuhan should be lifted by the end of April at the latest, otherwise it will easily cause many secondary disasters.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "对话宁毅：武汉最迟到四月底就应解禁，否则容易引发许多次生灾害";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Dialogue Ning: Wuhan should be lifted at the latest by the end of April, or it may have caused many secondary disasters and quotations.
var msg_desc = "国际疫情进入下半场，中国应当如何应对？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
