医院里的另一支“战队”。
Another 'TechnoFrontier' in the hospital.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
3月16日上午，武汉市红十字会医院呼吸内科一病区，一名护士将手套吹成气球，撑着氧气管，避免对患者造成压迫。
March 16 morning, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital Respiratory Medicine Division I, a nurse blow gloves into a balloon, supporting the oxygen tube, to avoid the patient caused oppression.
该护士告诉记者，她每吹一个气球，都会在上面写下“早日康复”等字样，表达对患者的美好愿望。
The nurse told reporters that every time she played a balloon, she would write "Early Recovery" on it to express her good wishes for the patient.
中青报·中青网记者 王嘉兴/摄  中青报·中青网记者 孙庆玲 王鑫昕在武汉大学人民医院东院区23病区，杨秀芳可能是和患者说话最多的医护人员。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Zhonghua News reporter Wang Jiaxing / Zhongqing News Zhongqing News Wang Xinxin is in the 23-disease area of the People's Hospital of Wuhan University. Yang Xiufang is probably the most talked-about medical worker.
她的语调很轻，语速不紧不慢。
Her tone was soft and she spoke slowly and leisurely.
在病房里，裹着层层密密的三级防护，她的音调要比平常略高些，起起伏伏的声波落在身上或钻进耳朵，有患者形容“像春风吹来”，有的能在她说出第一句话时即辨认出是她。
In the ward, wrapped in a dense layer of three-tiered protection, her tone was slightly higher than usual, with waves of rising and falling sound waves falling on her body or penetrating her ears. Some patients described her as "like the spring breeze," while others recognized her when she said the first sentence.
杨秀芳的话不单是信息的传递，也可以说是一副抗病毒的“药”。
Yang Xiufang's words are not only the transmission of information, but also a pair of antiviral "medicine."
她来自四川大学华西医院心理卫生中心，于2月7日抵达武汉，也是四川省支援武汉医疗队中最早抵达武汉的心理咨询师。
She arrived in Wuhan on February 7 from the Center for Mental Health at Sichuan University's Huaxi Hospital, and was the first counselor from the Sichuan Province to support Wuhan medical team.
一周后，另两名心理医生分别随第七、第八批四川医疗队抵达武汉。
A week later, two other psychologists with the seventh and eighth batches of Sichuan medical teams arrived in Wuhan.
半个月后，四川省又派出一支由50名心理咨询师、精神科医生组成的第十批医疗队。
Half a month later, Sichuan Province sent a team of 50 psychologists and psychiatrists to make up the 10th medical team.
目前，国家卫健委已调派415名精神卫生专业人员前往湖北，为患者和医务人员提供专业的心理咨询和危机干预服务。
At present, 415 mental health professionals have been sent to Hubei by the National Health Commission to provide professional psychological consultation and crisis intervention services for patients and medical staff.
他们被称为“心理战队”，不是为了战胜谁，而是为了陪伴。
They are called "psychological warfare teams," not to defeat anyone, but to accompany.
用该团队成员叶嘉璐的话说，是要陪新冠肺炎患者、一线医护人员扛过这段艰难的日子。
In the words of team member Ye Jialu, is to accompany the new crown pneumonia patients, front-line medical staff to carry through this difficult period.
宣泄，不知从何说起住在武汉大学人民医院东院区23病区的陈文（化名），相较于一些恐惧到吃不进饭的患者而言，算是让护士较为“省心”的一类患者——话不多，按时吃饭、吃药，遵从医嘱打针、输液，不激烈也不颓唐。
Chen Wen (not his real name), who lives in the 23-disease area of Wuhan University's People's Hospital's East Hospital, is a less troublesome type of patient for nurses than for those who are afraid to eat less - say less, eat regularly, take medicine, follow doctor's orders, inject fluid, not fierce and decadent.
但第三天晚上，她突然因为一份送迟的米饭大哭了起来，把医护人员、病友吓了一跳。
But on the third night, she suddenly began to cry over a late delivery of rice, startling the paramedics and patients.
积压已久的委屈、痛苦、害怕，甚至绝望，一涌而出。
A long backlog of grievances, pain, fear, and even despair surged out.
陈文今年50多岁，至今也不清楚如何被感染上新冠肺炎。
Chen, who is in his 50s, is still not sure how to get infected with pneumonia.
她入院时，告诉自己要安心治疗，但不知为何“内心难平”，一连串的“为什么”自问无解，想宣泄些什么，又不知向谁以及从何说起。
When she was admitted to hospital, she told herself to feel at ease with her treatment, but somehow "her mind was troubled," a series of "why" questions she didn't understand, what she wanted to say, and who to begin with.
陈文所在的病房有3名患者，基本上无交流，“大家都很压抑、害怕，都不说话”，睡觉时灯也不敢全关。
There were three patients in Chen's room, basically no communication, "everyone is very depressed, afraid, do not speak", sleep when the lights do not dare to turn off.
新冠病毒的可怕，不仅在于摧毁肌体，也在于强行隔离人与人。
The horror of the new crown virus lies not only in the destruction of the body, but also in the forcible isolation of people.
“它会让人产生一种剥夺感、不安全感，即便可以通电话、视频，但没有肢体的接触，依然会阻碍部分情感的自然流动。
"It creates a sense of deprivation, insecurity, and even if you can talk on the phone or video, the lack of physical contact can still hinder the natural flow of some emotions.
”四川省第十批医疗队心理医生李水英曾接触过一名患者，患者7岁的儿子在别处隔离，每隔约一个小时给她打一次电话，不分昼夜，“因为孩子的安全感得不到满足”。
Li Shui-ying, a psychologist for the 10th medical team in Sichuan province, contacted a patient whose seven-year-old son was quarantined and called her every other hour or so, "because the child's sense of security is not being met."
杨秀芳所在的病区当前有24名患者，且多为中老年人。
Yang Xiufang's disease area currently has 24 patients, mostly middle-aged and elderly.
有的用“老年手机”，有的不会用微信，长时间说话、打电话也不太现实——这里是线上心理援助难以触及的地方。
Some use "old-age cell phones," others don't use microphones, and long conversations and phone calls are impractical - places where online psychological help is hard to reach.
有的老人会不停地按铃呼叫医护人员，医护人员动作稍慢，老人便会发脾气；有几经抢救死里逃生的患者在清醒后说“不想活了”，因为“觉得自己被忽略了”；也有戴着氧气面罩的患者在纸上吃力地写下4个字“我会死吗”，瞪着眼睛渴望杨秀芳能给个答案。
Some old people ring for paramedics all the time, and the old people lose their temper when they are slower. Some of those who have survived wake up say "don't want to live" because they "feel neglected"; others wear oxygen masks and struggle to write down four words on paper: "Will I die?" and stare for an answer.
病房里多了几种声音每天，杨秀芳做完新入院患者的心理筛查后，会先去重点关注几位心理状态较差的患者。
Several more voices in the ward Every day, Yang Xiufang after the psychological screening of new patients, will first focus on a few patients with poor psychological state.
她站着和他们说话，有时一站便是三四个小时，说到自己透不过气来。
She stood talking to them, sometimes for three or four hours, and said that she was suffocating.
陈文喜欢听杨秀芳说话。
Chen likes to listen to Yang Xiufang.
同样是鼓励的话，但杨秀芳给病房中每个人说的都不一样，而且陈文觉得话都说到了自己的心坎上，“一字一句都慢慢流进了心里，而不是一盆水泼给你”。
It was the same words of encouragement, but Yang Xiufang told everyone in the ward not the same, and Chen Wen felt that the words were on his heart, "word by word flow into the heart, rather than a basin of water poured over you."
但有时，杨秀芳只是静静地听着，握着对方的手，或扶着对方的肩，“让他们觉得有人在，自己没那么孤单”。
But sometimes, Yang Xiufang just listens quietly, holding each other's hands, or holding each other's shoulders. "Let them feel that someone is not alone."
陈文不知道怎么用语言来形容握住杨秀芳手的感受，只觉得自己“几乎都要哭了”，但是哭不出来。
Chen Wen did not know how to use language to describe the feelings of holding Yang Xiufang hand, only feel "almost cry", but can not cry out.
因为“一股暖流钻进了心窝”，仿佛自己和这个世界重新连接。
Because "a warm current into the heart", as if he and the world re-connect.
陈文用“精心”“热心”“耐心”形容其他医护人员，用“知心”形容杨秀芳，“我心里的担忧、恐惧她好像都懂”。
Chen Wen used "meticulous" "warm-hearted" "patient" to describe other medical personnel, Yang Xiufang, "my heart worry, fear she seems to understand.
心理医生似乎有种特殊的“魔力”，能读懂他人。
Psychologists seem to have a special "magic" that can read other people.
“他们往往共情能力很强，虽然不能完全感同身受，但对患者内心情绪的感知很敏感。
"They tend to be empathetic, not fully empathetic, but sensitive to their feelings.
”叶嘉璐说，有时只是听着对方陌生的声音，也要努力钻进电话那头的人心里，感其所感，与其情感共振。
'Sometimes she just listens to her partner's strange voice and tries to get into the person's heart at the other end of the line, feeling what she feels and resonating with her feelings.
有时在咨询结束后，自己也要花上一阵子才能消化掉来访者传导的那种悲痛情绪。
Sometimes it takes a while to absorb the grief of the visitor's conduction after the consultation.
心理医生的内心并非都很强大，而是善于察觉情绪的波动。
Psychologists are not all very strong in the heart, but good at detecting emotional fluctuations.
他们帮助患者分担并消化纷杂繁重的情绪，陪对方穿过迷雾走向光风霁月之地，惊心动魄，却看似不动声色。
They help patients share and digest the heavy emotions, accompany each other through the fog to a small, exciting, but seemingly silent place.
每天的咨询还在持续着。
The daily consultations continued.
前不久，一位失去老伴的患者在接通电话那一刻告诉叶嘉璐：“我吃了饭，碗都洗好了，想着就等小叶子给我打电话啦。
Not long ago, a patient who lost his wife in the moment of connecting to the telephone told Ye Lu: "I have eaten the food, the bowl has been washed, think about waiting for small leaves to call me.
”他们依然不会刻意谈到或避免谈到逝者，即便谈到也更多的是宁静，而非悲痛，叶嘉璐在工作日记写道，“这是一场寂静的哀悼，通往满是希望的明天”。
They still do not speak or avoid talking about the dead, even if it is more about peace than grief, as Ms Ye writes in her work diary: "It is a silent mourning leading to a hopeful tomorrow."
倘若杨秀芳没有出现在病房，陈文和病友们就会忍不住开始念叨，“杨老师怎么还不来”“这感觉像好久没来了”“你现在感觉怎样”……慢慢地，病房中开始多出了几种声音，交谈声、笑声，甚至还有陈文唱《我和我的祖国》的歌声。
If Yang Xiufang had not appeared in the ward, Chen Wen and his sick friends would have been tempted to say, "Why hasn't Mr. Yang come yet" "How are you feeling now... Slowly, there were more voices in the room, conversation, laughter, and even Chen Wen singing" Me and My Motherland.
她说，“是杨医生的出现，唤醒了这里”。
"It was Dr. Yang who woke up here," she said.
如今，陈文已出院转至隔离观察点，离回家更近了一步。
Chen has now been discharged from the hospital and transferred to quarantine observation point, a step closer to home.
她说，现在还常常想念杨秀芳。
She says she still often misses Yang Xiufang.
她没见过杨秀芳不穿防护服的模样，但记得她的声音、眼睛。
She had never seen Yang Xiufang without protective clothing, but remembered her voice and eyes.
近些，再近些杨秀芳跟随所在医疗队进入病房直接开展工作，与她相反，四川支援武汉第十批医疗队的心理医生兼秘书蒋莉君在武汉的第一周几乎都在“等病人”。
In contrast to Yang Xiufang, a psychiatrist and secretary who supports Wuhan's 10th medical team, almost all spent the first week in Wuhan waiting for patients.
根据安排，蒋莉君所在医疗队的50名心理医生分为10组，5人为一组对接一所医院／方舱，医护人员是他们首要服务的群体。
According to the arrangement, the 50 psychologists of Jiang Lijun's medical team were divided into 10 groups, each docking a hospital / square module in groups of five, with the medical staff being their primary service group.
四川支援武汉医疗队心理保健组组长邱昌建观察，相较于患者，医护人员更倾向于把种种情绪揣在心里。
Sichuan support Wuhan medical team mental health team leader Qiu Changjian observation, compared to patients, medical staff are more likely to put emotions in mind.
有的医护人员在来电咨询中刚说出句“好累啊”，立马又把话收了回去；有的医护人员已经很疲惫了，但仍不下“火线”，因为觉得自己是来支援的，不能倒下。
Some medical personnel just said "very tired ah," and immediately put the word back; some of the medical personnel are tired, but still can not "fire", because they feel that they are to support, can not fall down.
要了解帮助他们，就要离他们近些，再近些。
To know how to help them, be close to them, closer to them.
蒋莉君小组先是联系医院／方舱中的各个医疗队，发放心理量表“摸底”医护人员的心理状况。
Jiang Lijun group first contacted the various medical teams in the hospital / square module, distributed psychological scale to "map" the psychological state of medical personnel.
有的医院领导或领队配合，有的要求对这一心理量表中的某些问题进行修改，有的直接拒绝了他们。
Some of the hospital leaders or team leaders cooperated, and some asked for changes to some of the questions in the psychological scale, while others rejected them outright.
蒋莉君想出一策，她事先打听好所对接医疗队的换班时间，抓住时机和下班休息的医护人员聊天。
Jiang Lijun came up with a strategy, she had to find out in advance the transfer time of the medical team, seize the opportunity to chat with the off-duty medical staff.
心理咨询和心理干预最看重自愿原则，她主要是要告诉他们，“如果需要，我就在这里”。
Psychological advice and intervention are based on the principle of voluntariness, and she's telling them, "I'll be right here if I need to."
有些医疗队驻扎的酒店大堂，成了蒋莉君的“办公点”；有的地方连座位都没有，她就自带凳子过去……蒋莉君的队友们，有的在医护人员驻地搭起了简单的“心理咨询室”，试着和医护人员交朋友。
Some of the medical teams stationed in the hotel lobby, Jiang Lijun's "office"; some places do not even have seats, she brought stool... Jiang Lijun's teammates, some of the staff set up a simple "psychological consulting room," try to make friends with medical personnel.
“你在他的面前，你们心理上的距离就是不一样的。
"You are in front of him, and the distance between you mentally is different.
”四川省第十批援鄂医疗队心理医生张波说，这也是他们来“前线”的原因。
Zhang Bo, a psychologist with the 10th medical team in Hubei province, said that was why they had come to the front.
蒋莉君统计，在该团队前半个月接受的1000多人次咨询中，医护人员少于患者，约占40%。
Jiang Lijun statistics, in the first half of the team received more than 1000 consultations, less than patients, about 40%.
张波认为，医护人员出现心理问题的主要原因是工作压力，“医疗领域‘隔科如隔山’，而现在所有科室都变成了一个科室——呼吸科，那些来自口腔、放射等其他科室的医护人员就要去适应，会增加工作压力”。
Zhang said the main reason for the mental health-care problems is work pressure, "the field of health care is separated by mountains, but now all departments have become a department - respiratory departments, those from oral, radiological and other departments to adapt to, will increase the work pressure.
邱昌建说，在高强度、高度紧张的应激状态下，医护人员真实的情绪或心理问题会在一定程度上被压制，通过睡眠或身体反应表现出来，如头昏、头胀、反应变慢，“这种状态去打攻坚战可以，但打不了持久战”。
Qiu Changjian said that under high intensity, high stress state, the real emotional or psychological problems of medical staff will be suppressed to some extent, through sleep or physical reaction, such as dizziness, dizziness, slow reaction, "this state of attack can be fought, but not protracted."
心理医生就是来解决这些问题的。
Psychologists are here to solve these problems.
有时，蒋莉君及其队友直接在酒店大堂找处安静、隐蔽的地方开始工作。
Sometimes Jiang Lijun and his teammates work directly in a quiet, secluded place in the lobby of the hotel.
这些线上或线下、流动或固定的“心理咨询室”，像是病房外的一个个“方舱”，一些医护人员在这里卸下冠冕，可以哭，也可以大喊，卸下焦虑、脆弱和不安。
These online or offline, mobile, or fixed "counseling rooms," such as "squares" outside the wards, where some paramedics remove their crowns to cry, or cry, to relieve anxiety, vulnerability, and uneasiness.
等他们走出这里，“有的眼神已恢复些神彩”，有的已和心理医生成为朋友。
When they come out of here, "some eyes have been restored to some magic color", and some have become friends with the psychologist.
眼下，蒋莉君说自己也“光荣下岗了”，因为她所对接的医疗队已撤离武汉，而“很多心理问题是阶段性的，在他们休整后也会慢慢恢复。
Now Jiang said she was "honourably laid off" because the medical team she docked had left Wuhan and "many of the psychological problems are gradual and will gradually recover after their recuperation.
武汉的特殊经历会丰富他们的人生经历，有的甚至会成为他们成长的契机”。
Wuhan's special experience will enrich their life experience, some will even become their growth opportunities.
中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily & amp; China Youth Net & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医院里的另一支“战队”。
Another 'TechnoFrontier' in the hospital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "医院里的另一支“战队”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at the hospital.
var msg_desc = "他们不是为了战胜谁";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; they weren't designed to win at & quot;;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
