因为疫情隔离，从不做家务的老公终于动起来了……。
Because of the epidemic quarantine, the husband who never did housework finally moved...
李钘滢。
Li Ying Ying.
尖椒部落                      。
Pepper tribe.
尖椒部落。
Pepper tribe.
尖椒部落，放大妳的声音！中国女工专属资讯平台，欢迎您关注！。
Pepper tribe, amplify your voice! Chinese female workers exclusive information platform, welcome to pay attention!
摘要：“别人觉得在家无聊，但我过得很充实。
"Other people find being at home boring, but I live a fulfilling life.
”疫情何时结束、老板何时通知上班、小孩何时可以去学校上课——这三个未知的“何时”，成为了自时疫发生后，大部分人最纠结与不安的问题。
When the epidemic ended, when the boss told work, and when children could attend school - three unknown "when" became the most troubling and unsettling problem for most people since the epidemic began.
对许多人来说，居家隔离的日子是漫长而无聊的。
For many people, the days of home isolation are long and boring.
但对一些长期担任“家庭照顾者”一职的女性而言，疫期的特殊状况，反而意外地将她们从繁重的家务中解放出来。
But for some women who have long held the role of "family caregiver," the particular circumstances of the epidemic have unexpectedly freed them from heavy domestic chores.
面对疫情带来的种种意外和困难，她们也充分发挥自己的生活智慧，一一应对。
In the face of all the surprises and difficulties brought about by the epidemic, they have also made full use of their life wisdom to cope with them.
以下是她们的故事。
Here are their stories.
思凡：两人都不能上班，老公终于开始做饭了。
STEVE: Neither of them could go to work. My husband finally began to cook.
对我而言，疫情造成的影响，就是赚不到钱了。
For me, the impact of the epidemic has been a loss of money.
我已经两个月没发工资了，学校又催交小孩的学费。
I haven't paid my salary in two months, and the school is pushing for my child's tuition.
本来二月下旬时，老板通知我，说三月初可以上班了。
At the end of February, my boss informed me that I would be ready for work in early March.
但当我从湖南回到深圳，又被告知需要推迟上班时间，所以就只能继续呆在家里了。
But when I got back to Shenzhen from Hunan, I was told to put off work so I had to stay at home.
我没法去上班，两个小孩也不能去学校。
I can't go to work, nor can my two children go to school.
现在，他们只能用手机上网课。
Now, they can only use their cell phones for Internet classes.
庆幸的是，他们只是复习前面的教过的知识，或者学一些趣味知识，还没有正式进入下学期的课程，所以家长也不会特别辛苦。
Fortunately, they just review the previous taught knowledge, or learn some interesting knowledge, has not been formally into next semester's curriculum, so parents will not be particularly hard.
作为家长，我要做的就是提醒他们到点上课，或者帮他们拍作业的图片、视频到班群。
All I have to do as a parent is remind them to come to class or help them take pictures and videos of their homework.
毕竟是用手机上课，我不是很放心，就担心他们不够自觉，比如会不会听课的时候玩游戏，所以偶尔还是要监督。
After all, I am not very comfortable with the use of mobile phones, I worry that they are not conscious enough, such as whether to listen to the time of the game, so occasionally supervision.
不过，小孩一天到晚看手机，我也很担心他们的视力。
But I'm also worried about the children's eyesight as they watch the phone all day long.
虽然每次上完课，小孩会有十分钟的休息时间，老师也会提醒他们做眼保健操，但我还是觉得这样不方便。
Although every class, the child will have a 10-minute break, the teacher will remind them to do eye exercises, but I still feel this inconvenient.
除了视力问题，我也不知道这种教学方式，小孩有没有真的听懂了。
Besides the eyesight problem, I also do not know this kind of teaching way, whether the child really understood.
毕竟不是面对面，他们有问题，也不能及时向老师反馈。
After all, they are not face-to-face, they have problems and do not respond to teachers in a timely manner.
早上9点，孩子开始上网课（本文照片均为受访者提供）坦白讲，长期呆在家里的生活，我觉得真的很压抑。
At 9 a. m., when kids start taking online lessons (the photos in this article are for respondents) Frankly speaking, being at home for a long time really pushes me down.
回到深圳之后，我们也很少出门，偶尔老公会扫码出去，到超市买一些食物。
Back in Shenzhen, we rarely go out, occasionally husband will sweep out, to the supermarket to buy some food.
我每天就是起床，然后吃东西、做家务、照顾小孩，一天就过去了，然后第二天继续重复。
I just get up every day, eat, do the housework, take care of the kids, and the day goes by, then I repeat it the next day.
之前我没上班时，家务就是我一个人做。
When I wasn't at work, I did the housework all by myself.
后来我开始工作，小孩的奶奶就过来家里帮忙。
Then I began to work, and the baby's grandmother came over to help.
疫情发生后，我和老公都没有班上，我就让老公做家务，跟他说：“我就躺着吃躺着睡，我就不干活。
After the outbreak, my husband and I did not have classes, I let my husband do housework, said to him: "I will lie down to eat and sleep, I will not work.
”这两天他就开始做饭了。
"He began to cook in the last two days.
毕竟我们俩现在都不工作，家务分配还是好商量，以前让他做，他是不肯做的。
After all, neither of us was working now, and the distribution of household chores was easy to negotiate. He had refused to do it before.
现在的每一天，我们的生活都是围绕着柴米油盐酱醋茶了。
Now every day, our lives are around the rice, soy sauce and vinegar tea.
思凡的老公在准备午饭吃完饭，思凡负责洗碗芳姐：买不到口罩，我就在家里自己做。
Stefan's husband is preparing lunch, and Stefan is in charge of washing dishes. Fang Jie: I can't buy a mask.
一月中旬的时候，我在手机上看到新闻，提到了武汉有疫情发生。
In mid-January, I read on my mobile phone that there was an outbreak in Wuhan.
但我当时看完也没有很重视，觉得只有一个地方出现，其他地方应该没事，所以就买票回了惠州过年。
But I did not look at that time also very important, feel only one place appeared, other places should be free, so I bought tickets back to Huizhou for the New Year.
回到惠州后，那些信息就越来越多，我就意识到确实很严重了，就准备买口罩防疫。
When I got back to Huizhou, the more information I got, I realized it was really serious, so I prepared to buy a mask vaccination.
但很多口罩都被抢光了，我在网上看到有些能买的店，却无法确定什么时候可以发货，这一等又不知道什么时候，最后唯有取消订单。
But a lot of masks were stolen, I saw some shops on the Internet, but can not determine when the delivery, do not know when, only to cancel the order.
之后，我就打电话给家人，提醒他们小心注意，顺便让他们帮我买口罩。
After that, I called my family to remind them to be careful and ask them to buy me a mask.
然而，当我真正买到口罩之后，又发现是劣质产品，只能凑合用。
However, when I really bought a mask, and found that it was a poor quality product, can only be used.
庆幸的是，有些姐妹知道我的情况后，便帮忙买到了真口罩，我真的很感谢她们。
Fortunately, some sisters know my case, then help buy a real mask, I really appreciate them.
芳姐但是，比起我这种一波三折买口罩的经历，在老家的亲人显然生活得更难。
But, compared with my experience of buying masks, it is clear that relatives back home are living much harder.
因为我是湖北人，所以大部分亲戚也都是在疫情重灾区中。
Because I am a Hubei people, so most of the relatives are also in the affected areas of the epidemic.
打了电话问候亲戚后，他们坦言目前情况还是很严峻：为了避免传染后生病，他们自己也不敢出门，只好每天在家，情绪上也被憋得非常苦闷。
After making phone calls to relatives, they confessed that the situation was still serious: to avoid getting sick after the infection, they were afraid to go out themselves and had to stay home every day, and their spirits were pent up.
听到他们这样讲，我也很难过，但自己又无能为力，只是希望疫情能快点过去。
I'm sorry to hear them say that, but I can't help myself. I just hope the epidemic will pass quickly.
现在，我就在深圳帮女儿带两个小孩，大的七岁，小的才一岁多。
Now, I help my daughter in Shenzhen to bring up two children, seven years old, a little more than a year old.
不过，现在女婿还没有复工，工资不知道什么时候发；大的小孩上学，又要交学费了；再加上今年一月又涨了房租，还要交房贷。
Now, however, the son-in-law has not returned to work and the salary is not known; the older children go to school and have to pay their school fees, plus a rent increase for January and a mortgage.
所以我们这一家，等于是疫情来了，生活的压力也大了，只能节省着用。
So our family, is tantamount to the outbreak of the disease, the pressure of life is also large, can only save the use.
不过，这里买菜方便很多。
But it's much easier to buy food here.
因为在惠州，我们是被安排送菜到家，没有什么选择；但来到这里，办好出入证之后就可以去市场了。
Because in Huizhou, we are arranged to deliver food home, there is no choice, but to come here, after a good pass can go to the market.
后来，女儿也告诉我，过年那段期间菜价很贵，随后就被人举报了，所以现在又便宜了，跟疫情前差不多，我们家里开支的压力就可以减轻一些。
Later, my daughter also told me that the price of vegetables during the Spring Festival period is very high, and then reported, so now it is cheap, as before the epidemic, our family expenditure pressure can be a little less.
疫情之前，女儿和女婿都要上班，买菜、做饭、做饭都是我来做。
Before the outbreak, my daughter and son-in-law had to go to work. I did the shopping, cooking and cooking.
如果他们下班早，就会帮忙。
If they leave work early, they will help.
这段时间，他们不能复工，所以家务就不需要我来做，他们也叫我多休息。
During this time they couldn't get back to work, so they didn't need me to do the housework, and they told me to take more rest.
不能出门的日子，我就每天看看新闻，偶尔跟朋友聊天，过得还算不错。
I can not go out of the day, I read the news every day, and occasionally chat with friends, a good life.
芳姐给全家做的早饭小外孙女要看窗外买不到口罩的时候，芳姐用纱布和保鲜膜做了自制口罩木棉：别人觉得在家无聊，但我过得很充实。
When Fang's granddaughter had to look out of the window to buy a mask, Fang made a self-made mask out of gauze and plastic wrap: others felt bored at home, but I lived a full life.
刚开始知道疫情的状况，是在1月19号，后来到了大年三十那天，我就感觉特别特别严重了。
I was just beginning to know what the epidemic was like. It was January 19th, and then on New Year's Eve, I felt especially bad.
随着网上疫情的信息越来越多，我工作的超市也出现了供不应求的情况，顾客都开始了抢购，大部分人都在屯油和米。
With more and more information about the epidemic on the Internet, the supermarket where I work is also in short supply, with customers snapping up items, most of them stocking up on oil and rice.
平时我们卖东西，卖完需要一段时间，所以都不着急补货；现在就是一开售，两个小时就没了，一天最少要增加两到三次货。
Usually we sell things, it takes a while to sell, so we don't have to worry about replenishing them. Now, as soon as we start selling, we lose two hours and add at least two or three more shipments a day.
木棉平时工作的超市，疫情期间也在照常营业与此同时，我们也被要求戴口罩了。
Cotton usually work in supermarkets, during the epidemic is also business as usual, we are also required to wear masks.
刚开始上班，我看到同事有戴也有不戴的，所以觉得可能不太严峻，自己也不是特别想戴。
At the beginning of the work, I saw colleagues wearing or not wearing, so I think it may not be too severe, not particularly want to wear themselves.
但后来，公司就发了口罩，明确一定要戴，还给我们开了一个专门的会议，说来超市的顾客又多又不固定，提醒我们必须保护好自己。
But then, the company put on a mask, definitely wearing it, and held a special meeting with us to remind us of the need to protect ourselves.
慢慢地，我自己感觉也有一种恐慌感。
Slowly, I felt a sense of panic myself.
因为我打算再去买一些口罩时，药店基本上都卖光了；然后我再去买消毒液，同样也是卖光的。
When I decided to buy some more masks, the drugstores were almost sold out; then I went to buy the disinfectant, which was also sold out.
即使后来又知道一些购买渠道，我去问口罩价格，涨得实在太高了，一个三十元，我真是买不起啊！因此，我就只能上班戴口罩，干完活就不停洗手。
Even if I later learned about some of the purchasing channels, I went and asked about the price of the mask. It was too high a price.
下班到了家，我就换洗衣服，然后用酒精给手机消毒，再打扫家里的卫生。
When I get home from work, I change my clothes, disinfect my cell phone with alcohol and clean the house.
我只能靠自己多注意的方式，来避免疫情了。
I have to pay more attention to my own way to avoid the epidemic.
不过，我看新闻有提到，个人的免疫力和抵抗力非常重要。
However, I see in the news that personal immunity and resistance are very important.
所以我就开始提前睡了，也不熬夜，早睡早起。
So I began to go to bed early, not stay up late, go to bed early and get up early.
我就想，把自己生活过得规律一些，可能体质好了，抵抗力强了，就已经是尽个人最大的努力去抗疫了。
I just want to, their lives a little more regular, maybe good health, resistance is strong, is already the best personal efforts to fight against the disease.
如果这样还是被传染上了，我就顺其自然了，毕竟害怕也没有用了。
If this is still infected, I will let the natural, after all, fear is no use.
后来，我看到网上越来越多与疫情相关的信息。
Later, I saw more and more information about the epidemic on the Internet.
看得多了，我真的觉得，本来没病的人都会吓出病。
See a lot, I really think that people who were not sick will be scared sick.
所以在空闲时间，我就开始做一些自己喜欢的食物，比如蒸馒头、蒸包子、包水饺等，努力过好自己的生活。
So in my spare time, I began to make some favorite food, such as steamed buns, steamed buns, dumplings and so on, and try to live a good life.
把平时休假时做好的馒头、包子、水饺，上锅蒸一下，就可以当早餐吃，经济又实惠在疫情期间，好多人在家出不了门，就觉得无聊。
Steamed buns, steamed dumplings and steamed dumplings made during ordinary holidays can be used as breakfast food. During the epidemic, many people feel bored when they are unable to leave their homes.
可是我不一样，反而觉得自己时间不够用了。
But I feel that I don't have enough time.
以前我早上5点就要起来做早饭，下班要做家务，晚上还要看着孩子早点睡觉。
I used to get up at 5 in the morning to cook breakfast, do housework after work, and watch my children go to bed early at night.
年前老公带着孩子回老家，我一个人留在这里，就多出来很多个人时间。
My husband returned home with my children some years ago. I stayed here alone, so I spent a lot more personal time.
现在我有很多需要学习的东西，比如通过看书，可以多学习一些知识，或者只是放松心情，看看电视剧。
Now I have a lot to learn, such as reading, can learn more knowledge, or just relax mood, watch TV drama.
年前的时候我报了驾照培训。
I got my driver's license training years ago.
我老公说：“你考个驾照，到时候我们挣钱了，可以买辆车。
My husband said: "You take a driving test, when we can earn money, we can buy a car.
”我想着反正年龄越来越大了，不学的话更没机会了。
"I think I'm getting older and older, and I don't have a chance to learn anything.
学习能让人感觉充实一点，其他的事情我就暂时先放一放。
Learning can make people feel a little more fulfilling. I'll leave the rest for the time being.
毕竟人活着，就需要精神上有寄托。
After all, to live, we need spiritual sustenance.
我就是这样，度过现在的每一天。
That's what I do. I live each day now.
木棉的小书桌，她在这里看书、写字窗台上的映山红请尊重原创，保护版权本文为绿色蔷薇社会工作服务中心及尖椒部落合作原创作品。
Small wooden desk, she read here, writing window Yingshan red please respect the original, protect copyright This article for the green roses social work service center and Jianjiao tribal original works.
欢迎转载，但请保留本段文字：转载自绿色蔷薇社会工作服务中心及中国女工权益与生活资讯平台尖椒部落（jianjiaobuluo.com）。
Welcome to reprint, but please retain this text: reprinted from Green Rose Social Work Service Center and Jianjiaobuluo.com, a Chinese women workers' rights and life information platform.
并保留以下作者信息：。
and retain the following author information:.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
因为疫情隔离，从不做家务的老公终于动起来了……。
Because of the epidemic quarantine, the husband who never did housework finally moved...
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "尖椒部落";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; pepper & quot;
var msg_title = "因为疫情隔离，从不做家务的老公终于动起来了……";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; never domestic because of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "居家的日子里，有人觉得很压抑，有人过得很充实。
var msg _ desc = & quot; At home, some people felt depressed and had a full life.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '湖北籍女工：被疫情困住，被家务缠住',。
Hubei female workers: Blocked by the epidemic and caught at home with & aposs;.
subject_name: '尖椒部落',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="尖椒部落";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
