终极一战：与死神抢人。
Ultimate World War I: Robbery with Death.
杨楠。
Yeung Nan.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
2月16日，四川省人民医院ICU主任黄晓波（中）在武汉红十字会医院7楼临时ICU病房里查看一位新冠肺炎危重症患者的病情 图/陈卓全文共11346字，阅读大约需要24分钟。
On February 16, Huang Xiaobo (middle), director of ICU at the Sichuan People's Hospital, looked in the temporary ICU ward on the 7th floor of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to see the full text of 11,346 words.
令人揪心的数字每天都在跌落，但目前湖北仍有八千多名患者，其中四分之一是重症甚至危重症病人。
The heart-rending numbers are falling daily, but there are still more than 8,000 patients in Hubei, a quarter of whom are critically ill or critically ill.
从死神手中夺回他们，才是这场战争中最见血见命的终极一役本文转载自南方人物周刊文 |南方人物周刊记者 杨楠 发自武汉南方人物周刊实习记者 何沛芸责任编辑 |周建平在武汉，许多人曾以为救治新冠肺炎危重症患者的艰难，是前期医疗资源不足所致。
| | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | |
但人们逐渐意识到，难以招架的根本原因在于我们对这一病毒带来的最严重后果知之甚少。
But people are coming to realize that the root cause of the difficulty lies in how little is known about the most serious consequences of the virus.
人类进化史中出现了一种新的冠状病毒，而认识它的代价却是一个一个的生命。
A new coronavirus has emerged in the history of human evolution, but the price of understanding it is a life.
ICU（重症加强护理病房）是医学救治中的最后一道关口。
ICU (intensive care unit) is the last hurdle in medical treatment.
它就像照进黑暗洞穴的手电筒光束：让你看见新冠疫情最危险的一角，视野有限，却足以令人坠入黑暗。
It's like a flashlight shining into a dark cavern: the most dangerous part of the new crowning epidemic, with a limited field of vision, but dark enough.
这是患者的终极一役，也是医生的终极一役。
This is the ultimate battle for the patient and the ultimate battle for the doctor.
“你想救他但救不回来”郑霞使劲拉防护服的拉链，怎么都拉不上。
"You want to save him but can not save back," Zheng Xia pulls the zipper of the suit, how can not pull.
她听到病区里监护仪哔哔作响，看到监护器红灯频闪。
She heard the sound of the monitor in the ward and saw the red light flashing.
可她进不去，病房是污染区，而她防护服总是穿不好，她救不了人。
But she couldn't get in, the ward was polluted, and her protective clothing was always worn badly, and she could not save people.
门铃声将郑霞拉出这个噩梦。
The doorbell pulled Zheng Xia out of this nightmare.
时间到了，她该去金银潭医院上班。
It's time for her to go to gold and silver pool hospital.
在武汉，许多ICU医护都会做噩梦，梦里是连续不断地心肺复苏、不停按压；是呼吸机怎么都接不上、管子总是掉；是无数患者在叫自己的名字——即使多数危重症患者很难发出声音。
In Wuhan, many ICU doctors and nurses have nightmares of incessant cardiopulmonary resuscitation, incessant pressure, unstoppable breathing apparatus and falling pipes; countless patients are calling their names - even though most critically ill patients have difficulty making their voices heard.
一位医生的房间里放着威士忌，是有烟熏味、口感强烈的那款，他经常需要威士忌帮助自己入睡。
A doctor whose room was filled with whisky, a smoky, strong-tasting version, often needed whiskey to help him sleep.
睡不好，二十多位接受采访的ICU医护都这么说。
Not sleeping well, according to more than two dozen ICU doctors interviewed.
最初怀着“入场后就打败病毒”的心情，郑霞在大年三十（1月24日）这天抵达武汉金银潭医院。
Originally with the "admission after defeating the virus" mood, Zheng Xia in the New Year 30 (January 24) arrived in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
她是浙江大学医学院附属第一医院的ICU主任医师，国内优秀的青年ICU医生。
She is the chief physician of ICU in the first hospital attached to Zhejiang University School of Medicine.
入场金银潭ICU的第一天，郑霞独自走进病房。
On the first day of ICU, Zheng Xia walked into the ward alone.
她首先处理了一个没有推镇定剂的插管患者，血氧饱和度差，人机对抗严重。
She first treated an intubation patient without a sedative, with poor blood oxygen saturation and severe man-machine resistance.
“用点镇静药，再上升压药。
"Take some sedatives and then take the pressure.
”她对护士说。
'she said to the nurse.
护士告诉她，没有深静脉注射，只有外周注射。
The nurse told her that there was no deep intravenous injection, only peripheral.
“那用间羟胺，”郑霞说。
"That's serotonin," says Zheng Xia.
还没等到间羟胺，患者血压就掉得不行，郑霞只得换用最基本的大剂量补液去维持患者血压。
Before the serotonin, the patient's blood pressure fell, Zheng Xia had to use the most basic high-dose rehydration to maintain the patient's blood pressure.
“你是值班医生么？”突然有护士问她。
"Are you the doctor on duty?" the nurse asked suddenly.
“是的。
"No.
”“那边的患者血压掉了，休克了。
"The man over there has lost his blood pressure and gone into shock.
”护士说。
"said the nurse.
另一个病房里，患者“酸得一塌糊涂”，体内PH值显示为6.9。
In another ward, the patient was "terribly sour," with a pH of 6.9.
郑霞在两个病房之间来回小跑，这边血压弄稳了，那边纠酸怎么都没效果。
Zheng Xia in the two wards back and forth trot, here blood pressure stabilized, where the acid is not effective.
“几乎是崩盘，酸中毒太厉害，那天半夜人就没了。
"It was almost a crash, the acid poisoning was so severe that the night was gone.
我回过头再看，其实他酸中毒应该很长时间了，但我一个人根本做不了那么多事，根本就是你想救他，但你救不回来。
I look back, he should have been acidosis for a long time, but I can't do so many things by myself, you just want to save him, but you can't save him.
”她没有帮手。
She had no helpers.
在她到来之前，金银潭ICU只剩下两个本科室医生——另外三个病休。
Before she arrived, there were only two undergraduate doctors left in the ICU - the other three.
医院调来两个艾滋科的医生支援，两个人迷瞪而诚恳地说：“我们会开医嘱，但不会看（肺炎）病人。
The hospital called in two doctors from the AIDS department, and the two men said in a dazed and sincere manner: "We'll give the doctor's order, but not the patient.
”护士更是稀缺，几乎是一个人当四个人用。
Nurses are even scarcer, almost alone when used by four people.
更遑论金银潭的医护们已经坚持了二十多天，却频频面对救治无力、甚至一天去世五名患者的困境。
Not to mention the fact that health care workers have been struggling for more than 20 days to treat five patients who are powerless or even die a day.
“之前我们搞重症的都没听说过金银潭，感觉很神秘。
"We haven't heard of gold and silver before and we're feeling very mysterious.
”桑岭在路途中幻想金银潭的模样，那大概是个窗明几净、设备周全的救治中心。
"Sang Ling in the road fantasy gold and silver pool appearance, that is probably a window, well-equipped treatment center.
他是广州呼吸疾病研究所的ICU副主任医师，钟南山团队成员，与郑霞同一天赴汉，两人共同接手金银潭南七楼的ICU病区。
He is the ICU deputy director of Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Research Institute, Zhong Nan Shan team members, and Zheng Xia the same day in China, they took over the gold and silver pool south seventh floor ICU disease area.
桑岭 图/受访者提供事实上，金银潭的病房狭小昏暗，在疫情前期缺乏标准ICU应有的设备——连氧气都不够。
Sang Ling Tau / Interviewee gave the fact that the wards in the Gold and Silver Pool were small and dark and lacked the standard ICU equipment - even oxygen - in advance of the outbreak.
这是一所远离武汉市区的传染病医院，有能力快速启动处置传染病的防护机制，但自身不足以面对接连涌入的危重症患者。
This is an infectious disease hospital far away from Wuhan city. It has the ability to quickly activate the protective mechanism to deal with infectious diseases, but it is not sufficient to face the influx of critically ill patients.
武汉的新冠肺炎危重症不断往金银潭转。
The critical case of Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia continues to turn to gold and silver pool.
ICU医生是抢救患者生命的最后一道关口。
Dr. ICU is the last hurdle in saving a patient's life.
但如果抢救的机会都不给他们呢？多数患者送到金银潭时已是病程末期，甚至成了“半个死人”才往金银潭送。
But what if they were not given a chance to save themMost of the patients arrived at the end of their illness and were even sent to the gold and silver pools as "half-dead."
不仅在金银潭ICU，我们在武汉多个ICU病区都听到这样的过往：患者被按着心肺复苏过来；患者送来时已瞳孔散大；患者推进来时就是凉的……医生所能做的只有按照标准抢救半小时，然后开出一张死亡证明。
Not only in Gold and Silver Pool ICU, but in many ICU-affected areas in Wuhan, we have heard of patients resuscitated by cardiopulmonary resuscitation; patients brought in with dilated pupils; patients who push in with cold... All doctors can do is salvage for half an hour according to standards and issue a death certificate.
“患者送来已经不行了，这不是你的错。
"It's not your fault the patient sent it.
”有人试图宽慰桑岭。
Someone tried to soothe Sang Ling.
“你觉得是谁的过错造成的冲击么？你面前死了好几个人，任何一个人看着都不太舒服。
'And whose fault do you think caused the shock? Several people died in front of you, and none of you seemed very well.
我见多了，承受力会好一些，但依然很不舒服。
I've seen more. It'll be better, but it's still uncomfortable.
”桑岭说。
'she said.
患者变成了数字。
The patient became a number.
夜班医生在交班时告诉桑岭，昨晚又死去一个患者。
The night doctor told Sang Ling during the shift that another patient had died last night.
桑岭没有见过他。
Sangling hasn't seen him.
2月13日，武汉金银潭医院，医护人员正在ICU内忙碌图/陈卓专家组坐在金银潭ICU里，决定申请更多援军对抗死神郑霞和桑岭由卫健委医疗救治专家组点名指派到武汉。
On February 13, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, medical staff were busy in ICU Picture / Chen Zhuo expert group sitting in the ICU, decided to apply for more reinforcements against death Zheng Xia and Sangling designated by the health care expert group to Wuhan.
他们抵达前一周，专家组的三名成员杜斌、童朝晖和邱海波已在武汉焦头烂额了五天。
Three members of the Group, Du Bin, Tong Chaohui and Qiu Haibo, had been languishing in Wuhan for five days before their arrival.
他们每天进金银潭的三个重症病区查房——其中两个是由普通病房临时改造而成。
They visited three critical areas of the gold and silver pool every day - two of which were temporarily converted from ordinary wards.
哪怕是国内最好的ICU医生，比如北京协和医院内科ICU主任杜斌，也会在武汉感到崩溃。
Even the best ICU doctors in China, such as Du Bin, director of internal medicine at Peking Concorde Hospital, will collapse in Wuhan.
“最开始那几天，我去看了一个病人，病人血气检测二氧化碳一栏写的是XXX，这是到了测不出来的程度，没有数字了。
"In the first few days, I went to see a patient whose blood gas test, called" XXX, "was undetectable. There were no numbers.
二氧化碳潴留通常能通过调整呼吸机解决，我在床边调了一上午，等中午出病房时，二氧化碳显示大于115了。
Carbon dioxide retention can usually be solved by adjusting the respirator. I set it by the bed all morning and when I leave the room at noon, the carbon dioxide shows up to 115.
”终于有数了，但115大大超过检测上限。
The numbers are clear, but 115 is well above the detection limit.
“我就觉得非常崩溃，你根本不知道你在干的是什么，你干的效果到底是什么？”杜斌说。
"I feel so broken, you don't know what you're doing, what's the effect?" Mr. Du said.
在1月的武汉，你除了感到“崩溃”，还感到“无力”，哪怕你是中央指导组专家组成员——一个医生能在此次疫情中扮演的一种最重要的角色。
In Wuhan in January, in addition to feeling "broken," you feel "powerless," even if you are a member of the Central Steering Group of Experts - a doctor who can play the most important role in the epidemic.
“刚开始有太多遗憾，太多了。
"Too many regrets at first, too much.
”专家组成员、东南大学附属中大医院副院长邱海波说，“你真的会觉得很无力很无助。
"You really feel powerless and powerless," said Qiu Haibo, a member of the panel and Vice-dean of Southeast University's affiliated CUHK Hospital.
”重症医生晁亚丽拍下了这一幕，邱海波（右）和杜斌（左）顾不上吃午饭，手拿着面包片，匆匆赶往下一家医院巡视图/受访者提供除了金银潭病区，专家组也要巡查武汉其他医院。
Chao Ali, a Chao doctor, took this scene and Chao Haibo (right) and Du Bin (left) hurried to the next hospital with no time for lunch.
病房全满了，而病房外是每天几百甚至上千的门诊患者。
The wards are full, and outside the wards are hundreds or even thousands of outpatients a day.
他们或滞留在门诊大厅，或被迫回家。
They either remain in the outpatient lobby or are forced to return home.
“我们不知道有多少病人等着进ICU，不知道这些危重病人在病房外是不是就‘走掉了’。
"We don't know how many patients are waiting to get into the ICU and whether these critically ill people are 'gone' outside the ward.
”邱海波说。
"said Cupid.
他接到同学的电话，为垂危的父亲求一张金银潭的床位，却无计可施。
He got a phone call from his classmate asking for a bed in a gold and silver pool for his dying father.
“很多病人你帮不了他。
"You can't help a lot of patients.
没有床位我们收不进来，有了床位也没有设备，有了设备也没有足够的经过培训的医务人员，这在早期都是非常大的困扰。
The lack of beds, the lack of equipment, the availability of equipment and the shortage of trained medical personnel were early problems.
我只能说我自己去看一个个病人的时候，我能努力的，我都坚决去做。
I can only say that when I go to see a patient on my own, I can work hard and I will do it with determination.
”在解决科学难题前，首先要解决医务人员和床位紧缺的问题。
"The shortage of medical staff and space should be addressed before scientific problems can be solved.
2020年1月22日，在金银潭查房结束当天，专家组坐在金银潭ICU里决定，要向国家卫健委申请再派一些专家进驻金银潭。
On 22 January 2020, at the end of the examination of the gold and silver pools, the group of experts sat in the ICU of the Gold and Silver Pool and decided to apply to the National Health Commission for additional experts to be stationed in the gold and silver pools.
至少一个病房增加两个专家分管病区，手下再有三到四个医生做临床救治。
At least two more specialists in at least one ward, and three to four more doctors in the unit, will provide clinical care.
郑霞和桑岭就是那晚被点名的两位。
Zheng Xia and Sang Ling were named that night.
“我们调的都是国内比较顶尖的青年医生，他们往往理念很强，同时很熟练临床操作。
"We're talking about top-notch young doctors in the country who are often very idealistic and skillful in clinical practice.
”邱海波说。
"said Cupid.
而在前一日，专家组成员、朝阳医院副院长童朝晖向上级提出自己的第一个建议：开放核酸检测点，尽可能多地确诊和收治患者。
The previous day, Chaohui Tong, vice-president of Chaoyang Hospital, a member of the expert group, made his first suggestion to his superiors: open nucleic acid sites and identify and treat as many patients as possible.
1月22日到2月5日，武汉市新冠病毒核酸检测点从省疾控一家扩展到27家，定点收治医院从12所增加到28所，床位数扩大两倍，达8574张。
From Jan. 22 to Feb. 5, Wuhan's Xinguan virus nucleic acid testing center was expanded from 12 to 27, and the number of designated hospitals increased from 12 to 28, tripling the number of beds to 8,574.
而在1月31日和2月9日，武汉医疗实力最强的同济医院中法院区和光谷院区所有床位都转为接受新冠肺炎重症患者，最紧张的时期，两个院区一共收治了2025名患者。
On January 31 and February 9, all beds in the courthouse and guanggu districts of Wuhan's most powerful hospital, Tongji, were converted to severe cases of pneumonia, with a total of 2025 patients admitted to the two districts during the peak period.
50天里，全国调集四万多医护人员支援湖北，与死神抢夺生命，其中一万九千名负责重症治疗。
Over the past 50 days, more than 40,000 medical workers have been mobilized to assist Hubei and rob death of their lives.
一位护士搬氧气罐途中晕倒，只休息了一天2月初采访时，重症医生告诉我们情况有所好转，每天三个病区的死亡患者总数相当于过去一个病区的。
During an interview in early February, the intensive care physician told us that the situation had improved. The total number of deaths per day in the three affected areas was the same as in the previous one.
一个月后我们才得知，受访者接手的第一批患者，最终都没救过来。
It took us a month to learn that the first patients the interviewees took over were not rescued.
不少援鄂的重症专家都经历过2008年的汶川地震，普遍形容新冠疫情的抢救对他们来说更为残酷。
Many experts in Hubei have experienced Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, generally described the rescue of the new crown epidemic for them more cruel.
“其实地震时，我们能做的不多，抢救的压力主要在搜救人员那里。
"In fact, when the earthquake, we can do not do much, rescue pressure mainly in search and rescue people there.
另外，地震后送来的伤者数量是不断减少的，但这次疫情危重症患者是越来越多。
In addition, the number of people brought in by the earthquake is decreasing, but this time the number of critically ill patients is increasing.
”一位重症医生说。
"said a critically ill doctor.
病房开出来了，全国各地的医护人员也陆续抵达。
The wards were opened and medical staff arrived from all over the country.
可直到2月初期，武汉各个医院连氧气都不够。
But until early February, Wuhan hospitals did not even have enough oxygen.
包括邱海波在内，几乎所有身处金银潭的重症医护都在1月搬过氧气罐。
Almost all the intensive care workers, including Qiu Haibo, who were in the gold and silver pools, moved oxygen tanks in January.
仅四个重症病区就有百余名患者需要高压氧，数倍于金银潭供氧站日常的氧耗量。
More than 100 patients in four critical areas alone require hyperbaric oxygen, several times the daily oxygen consumption of the oxygen stations in the gold and silver pools.
每天午夜零点和早上7点还会突然掉氧，“这会死人的。
Oxygen drops suddenly at 0 in the morning and 7: 00 in the morning. It's going to be dead.
”一位医生说。
'said a doctor.
一个氧气罐只能用一小时不到，送氧师傅赶不过来，护士们就自己去搬比人还高的氧气罐。
An oxygen tank can only last less than an hour. The oxygen carriers can't get around. The nurses move their own tanks, which are higher than human oxygen.
1月下旬，郑霞病区的一位护士在晚上搬氧气罐途中晕倒，护士长坚持让她休息三天。
In late January, a nurse in Zheng Xia's sickened area fainted on the way to an oxygen tank at night, and the head nurse insisted that she rest for three days.
她只休息了一天，因为人手不够。
She had only one day's rest because she was short of hands.
在同济医院中法院区，北京协和医院最先接管了ICU病区。
In the court district of Tongji Hospital, Beijing Concorde Hospital first took over the ICU area.
2月4日接管第一晚，病区里收了18个患者，甚至一分钟内送来过3个。
During the first night of the takeover, on 4 February, 18 patients were admitted to the area and even three were delivered within a minute.
“对北协和本院ICU来说，我们一天都收不到18个病人。
"For the ICU of the Concorde and the Court, we don't get 18 patients a day.
平时工作中，一天偶尔会有一两个濒危，不像这18个，都是随时可能死去。
At work, occasionally one or two endangered, unlike the 18, are ready to die at any moment.
”北协和ICU副主任周翔说。
Zhou Xiang, deputy director of the Beijing Concorde ICU, said.
“你们病房有30个床位，为什么第一天只收了18个病人？”“因为我们只有18个呼吸机。
Why did you take only 18 patients on the first dayBecause we only had 18 ventilators.
”周翔说。
"said Zhou Xiang.
到了第二天，周翔收了32个患者，其中28个都实施了气管插管。
By the next day, Zhou Xiang had received 32 patients, 28 of whom had had trachea intubation.
这是常规呼吸治疗中最强效、但护理难度最高的措施。
This is the most effective routine respiratory therapy, but the most difficult care measures.
医生将一特制的气管置入患者的气管中，通过通气装置将氧气直送患者气道深处。
A special trachea was inserted into the patient's trachea and oxygen was pumped deep into the patient's airway through a ventilator.
“医生非常痛苦。
"The doctor is very miserable.
所有病人我们都拼尽全力，各种能上的手段我们都上了，但最后还是没能够出去（转出ICU）。
We all tried our best, we did everything we could, but in the end we were unable to get out.
”周翔说。
"said Zhou Xiang.
周翔（中）和同事合影 图/受访者提供在北协和病区，第一批重症患者在病房里停留的中位数是5天，最短的是0分钟。
Chow Cheung (middle) and colleagues pictured / interviewed provided a median stay of 5 days and 0 minutes in the wards for the first group of patients with severe illnesses in the Bei Cong Ho area.
到了2月中上旬，在各方力量的努力下，武汉或是新建供氧站、扩容供氧管，或是调配呼吸机等等，各医院的供氧问题逐渐解决。
In the first half of February, thanks to the efforts of all forces, Wuhan either built new oxygen stations, expanded oxygen supply pipes, or deployed ventilators, thus gradually solving the oxygen supply problems in hospitals.
沉默的假象邱海波怀疑机器坏了。
The illusion of silence Qiu Haibo suspected that the machine was broken.
监测仪显示患者的血氧饱和度只有20——人的血氧饱和度及格线至少为90，低于70就可能昏迷。
The monitor showed that the patient's blood oxygen saturation was only 20 - the human blood oxygen saturation threshold is at least 90, below 70 may be unconscious.
患者没有昏迷，她安静地戴着无创呼吸面罩，吸氧浓度不高、呼吸不急促、心率也不快。
The patient was not unconscious, she wore a non-invasive breathing mask quietly, oxygen concentration is not high, breathing is not rapid, heart rate is not fast.
除了不断报警的监测仪，一切看上去都很正常。
Everything seemed normal except for the constant alarm monitor.
30年来，邱海波从未见过这么低的血氧饱和度。
For 30 years, Qiu Haibo had never seen such a low blood oxygen saturation.
他摘下患者的血氧仪，戴在自己手上，监测仪显示血氧饱和度为98，机器没有坏。
He took off the patient's oxygenator and put it on his hand. The monitor showed blood oxygen saturation of 98 and the machine was not broken.
他去摸患者的手指，没有指甲油，指尖温度不低，被监测对象没有问题。
He went to touch the fingers of the patient, no nail polish, the fingertips were not too hot, and the subjects were no problem.
他开始调整呼吸机，又配合俯卧位通气，将患者的血氧饱和度调至90。
He began to adjust the ventilator, and with the prone position ventilation, the patient's blood oxygen saturation to 90.
其间，患者只告诉他一种感受：有些憋气。
During this time, the patient told him only one feeling: some suffocation.
邱海波将这种患者表现不明显、但体内已经严重缺氧的临床现象称为“沉默型低氧血症”。
Qiu Haibo this patient is not obvious, but the body has serious hypoxia clinical phenomenon known as "silent hypoxemia."
目前，仍没有一种确定的病理分析能够解释沉默型低氧血症的启动机制。
At present, there is still no certain pathological analysis to explain the activation mechanism of silent hypoxemia.
多位医生推测，或许是新冠病毒攻击了人体内的代偿机制。
Many doctors speculate that the new crown virus may have attacked the compensation mechanism in the body.
人在低氧时会产生神经冲动，受体感知到后启动代偿机制——表现为心跳加速或者呼吸急促——试图为身体获取更多氧气。
In humans, nerve impulses occur when oxygen is low, and receptor perception triggers compensation mechanisms - in the form of rapid heartbeat or shortness of breath - in an attempt to get more oxygen for the body.
一旦代偿被破坏，医生将很难作出及时的治疗决定。
Once compensation is destroyed, it will be difficult for doctors to make timely treatment decisions.
严重低氧却呼吸平稳的假象迷惑了医生。
Doctors are puzzled by the illusion of severe hypoxia and smoothness of breath.
在救治早期，我们听到了太多这样的病例：患者能说话能走路，其实肺部已经全部病变；患者上午还在与医生说话，下午人就没了；医生查房结束，认为一切都好，脱下防护服的时候，身后一台心电监护仪“直了”。
In the early stages of treatment, we have heard too many cases of patients being able to talk and walk, but the lungs are completely diseased; patients talking to the doctor in the morning and missing in the afternoon; doctors checking out the room and thinking everything is OK.
“往往我们看到病人低氧，再有呼吸困难，我们就插管了。
"Often when we see patients suffering from hypoxia and difficulty breathing, we intubate.
但现在病人的低氧表现很隐秘，而且好像吸了高氧之后能纠正，提醒我们要去插管的常见指征都不明显了，治疗就会往后延。
But now the patient's hypoxia is secretive, and seems to correct after taking high oxygen, reminding us that the usual signs of intubation are not obvious and that treatment will be delayed.
”邱海波说。
"said Cupid.
等到患者呼吸急促需要插管时，往往已是病程末端，而他们在插管之前，已经无法承受片刻的缺氧。
By the time the patient is short of breath and needs an intubation, it is often at the end of the course, and they cannot withstand a moment of hypoxia before they are intubated.
在不同医院的疑难病例讨论会上，出现过不下五起患者摘下无创呼吸去洗手间后死亡的病例，还有一起患者摘下氧气面罩吃饭后突然死亡。
There have been no fewer than five cases of patients dying after taking off their non-invasive breathing to the restroom and one case of sudden death after taking off an oxygen mask for dinner at different hospitals.
在2月5日印发的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第五版)》中，重症、危重症治疗措施中的“呼吸支持”，由原来笼统的一段话，变更为清晰的四条，其中第二条“高流量鼻导管氧疗或无创机械通气”的指导意见指出，若短时间（1-2小时）内病情无改善甚至恶化，应当及时进行气管插管和有创机械通气，第三条则为“有创机械通气”，即气管插管。
In the February 5th edition of the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection" (Trial Version 5), the "Respiratory Support" in severe and critical care measures was changed from a general passage to four clear guidelines.
事实上，身为国内首屈一指的呼吸危重症专家，童朝晖到达武汉的第三天，就在自己的笔记本上标记了“插管”和“调呼吸危重症医护”。
Indeed, on his third day in Wuhan, child Chaohui, the country's leading respiratory specialist, marked his notebook with "intubation" and "breathing critical care."
1月下旬，他与邱海波、杜斌达成共识：需要采取更为积极的治疗方式，尽早插管。
In late January, he reached a consensus with Qiu Haibo and Du Bin on the need for a more aggressive approach to treatment and early intubation.
而这一共识，被三位专家写入了第五版诊疗方案中。
And this consensus, was written by three experts in the fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment program.
童朝晖 图/受访者提供提高插管率这是在战时，指令的下达与平日不同。
Tong Chaohui Chart / Respondent provides improved intubation rate This is in wartime, instructions are issued differently than usual.
2月中旬，武汉多家医院都接到指示，要提高插管率。
In mid-February, Wuhan hospitals were instructed to increase the rate of intubation.
“这算不算干扰医疗秩序？”“那时候说提高插管率，不是说要求你必须达到一个比例，也不是说每个病区都要插管，而是发现有些病区里的医护人员认识不到延迟插管的危害，以及无创通气会造成飞沫传播的危害，都说不能插管，这不对。
That's not to say that you have to get to a certain percentage, not that you have to intubate in every area, but that in some areas health care workers don't understand the danger of delayed intubation and that non-invasive ventilation can cause foam transmission, that's not true.
”杜斌说。
"said Du Bin.
2月中旬，插不插管是抢救新冠肺炎的最大医学分歧。
In mid-February, failure to insert a catheter was the biggest medical disagreement over saving New Crown Pneumonia.
综合多位呼吸科和重症科专家意见后，我们发现，主治慢性呼吸疾病的呼吸科医生普遍支持他们更为熟悉的无创通气；而重症医生和主治急性呼吸窘迫的呼吸科医生，往往下手更为果决，支持插管（有创通气）。
On the basis of expert advice from various respiratory departments and intensive care units, we found that the respiratory doctors attending to chronic respiratory diseases generally supported their more familiar non-invasive ventilation, while the intensive care doctors and respiratory doctors attending to acute respiratory distress tended to be more decisive and supportive of intubation (invasive ventilation).
同时，患者插管后，护理和体外生命支持的难度更大。
At the same time, after patients intubation, nursing and life support in vitro is more difficult.
相比呼吸科医生，重症医生更熟悉体外生命支持。
The intensive care physician is more familiar with in vitro life support than the respirator.
在医学观点的分歧之外，不插管的原因有很多，比如没有呼吸机，比如医护人员不熟悉这项技术等。
Beyond the differences in medical opinion, there are many reasons not to intubate, such as the absence of a ventilator, such as medical personnel unfamiliar with the technique.
气管插管确属高危操作，患者会喷溅分泌物、血液，或产生飞沫、气溶胶，增加新冠病毒传染的风险。
Trachea cannula is a high-risk operation, patients will spatter secretions, blood, or produce droplets, aerosols, increase the risk of transmission of the new crown virus.
但另一方面，患者插管后，呼吸机形成闭路循环，相比无创呼吸机和高流量吸氧，不会出现痰液的飞沫。
On the other hand, the ventilator forms closed-circuit circulation after intubation, and no sputum droplets appear compared with non-invasive ventilator and high flow oxygen absorption.
不能逼人当英雄。
You can't be a hero.
这是烈性传染病，如果不是经历过SARS的老兵，初次面对它时，恐惧难以避免。
It's a powerful infectious disease, and if it's not a veteran of SARS, fear is inevitable the first time you face it.
上海华山医院接手同济医院光谷院区ICU的第一天，领队李圣青急得在走廊里喊：“你们赶快给我过来一个人。
Shanghai Huashan Hospital took over the Tongji Hospital Guanggu courtyard district on the first day of the ICU, the leader of the team Li Sheng-ching in the corridor cried: "You hurry to me a person.
”她拽来一个护士，给患者推镇静和肌松，以完成插管。
"She pulled in a nurse to push the patient to calm and loosen his muscles to complete the intubation.
李圣青 图/范士广李圣青有29年的军旅生涯，说话爽利。
Li Shengqing Tu / Fan Shi Guang Li Shengqing has 29 years of military service career, talkative.
回到驻地，她告诉所有医护人员，“我们队内有全国最好的院感专家，科学防护足够到位。
Back at the station, she told all the paramedics, "We have the best hospital specialists in the country and the scientific protection is in place.
”紧接着，她直白地说：“这种情况下，你让自己沉浸在恐惧里，就是一种自我放纵，和沉浸在各种享乐里一样的放纵。
Then she said bluntly: "In this case, you immerse yourself in fear, a form of self-indulgence, as indulgence in pleasure.
但我们是来治病救人的。
But we are here to heal.
”那段时间，童朝晖一个接一个去医院讲课，花一个小时的时间告诉医护人员，在当前的防护条件下，插管并没有太大风险，插管要比不插管好维护。
"In those days, Tong went to the hospital one by one and spent an hour telling paramedics that intubation was not too risky under the current protective conditions and that intubation was better than not being intubated.
在采访中，我们得知，2月中下旬，至少有五位国家卫健委直接调派的专家，去往不同病区带头插管。
During the interview, we learned that in the second half of February, at least five experts directly seconded by the National Health Commission went to take the lead in intubation in different areas.
“医生哪能看着病人情况越来越差，有治疗措施却不使用呢？你不插，我给你插，我给你做出榜样来。
"How can a doctor see a patient getting worse and worse without a cure? If you don't, I'll give you an example."
恐惧的心理大家都知道，这很正常。
The psychology of fear Everyone knows it's normal.
但是如果一直拿恐惧来说事，就不对。
But if you keep talking about fear, you're not right.
”杜斌说。
"said Du Bin.
关于插管和不插管的争议在3月上旬基本结束。
The dispute over intubation and non-intubation ended largely in early March.
李圣青形容这是“血的教训”，她曾经看着患者无创吸氧的效果不错，血氧饱和指数稳定在92-93，犹豫再三决定不去插管。
Li described it as "a lesson in blood," having watched patients do well with noninvasive oxygen uptake, stabilized at 92-93, and hesitated repeatedly not to intubate.
“我还挺开心的，高兴地脱了防护服，还没走到医生办公室，他们就告诉我15床和4床没了，这简直让我太吃惊了。
"I was so happy to take off my protective gear and before I got to the doctor's office, they told me there were 15 beds and 4 beds missing.
”她下定决心要关口前移，提早插管，“再前移都没有错，要么人命就没了。
She made up her mind to close the door and plug early. "There's nothing wrong with moving forward, or human life is gone.
”2月16日，武汉红十字会医院7楼临时ICU病房里，四川省人民医院的邓磊医生对一位新冠肺炎危重症患者进行气管插管手术 图/陈卓“受攻击的不仅是肺，只是肺最先受攻击”2月3日，《南方人物周刊》刊发了对复旦大学附属中山医院重症医学科副主任钟鸣的专访《多数重症病人体内突然启动炎症风暴》，他也是国家卫健委最早点名驰援金银潭的专家之一。
On Feb. 16, 2006, Dr. Deng Lei of the Sichuan People's Hospital in Wuhan, a temporary ICU ward on the 7th floor of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, conducted a tracheostomy operation on a critically ill patient with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
在那篇报道中，钟鸣最早向大众描述新冠肺炎后期病程突然加速、多器官受到攻击，引发广泛关注。
In that report, Zhong Ming first described to the public the sudden acceleration of the late stage of New Crown Pneumonia and the attack of multiple organs, causing widespread concern.
一个月后，钟鸣告诉我们，他重新审视了炎症风暴这一对临床表现的描述。
A month later, Bell tells us that he re-examined the description of the clinical manifestation of inflammatory storms.
“其实我当时说的是我的一种推断，我当时发现白细胞介素-6有些升高，这是炎症反应中一个重要的临床表现。
"I was actually talking about my assumption that I was seeing a rise in interleukin-6, an important clinical manifestation of inflammatory response.
但后来病人越来越多，我发现白细胞介素-6是升高，但没有高那么多。
But as the number of patients grew, I found that interleukin-6 was elevated, but not as high.
”简单地说，患者体内炎症因子失衡，但没有到启动风暴的程度。
Simply put, the inflammatory factor in the patient is out of balance, but not to the point of initiating a storm.
钟鸣的推断是人类认识新冠肺炎过程中浅浅的一步。
The inference of Zhong Ming is a shallow step in human cognition of new crown pneumonia.
北京大学人民医院重症医学科主任安友仲说：“我觉得他提出这个问题，大家就会去关注化验单上的细胞因子。
"I think if he raises the issue, people will pay attention to the cytokines on the slip," said An Youzhong, director of severe medicine at Peking University's People's Hospital.
能引起讨论，这是好事。
It's a good thing it gets discussed.
即使关注之后发现不是那么回事，也是重新认识了新冠病毒。
Even if the focus turns out not to be the case, it is a new recognition of the new crown virus.
”患者可能很难察觉新冠病毒的入侵。
Patients may find it difficult to detect an invasion of the new crown virus.
他的身体如常，平稳地行进。
His body went on as usual, moving smoothly.
突然，他被迫跑起了马拉松，一程结束又是一程，程程相扣，无法停歇。
Suddenly, he was forced to run a marathon, a run that ended in a series of interlocking, unstoppable runs.
氧气就环绕着他，他大口喘息，一口一口地抽，却怎么都不够。
Oxygen surrounded him, he gasped, mouthful by mouthful, but it was not enough.
空气经过了他的喉管，却永远无法穿过它的肺部。
The air passed through his throat, but never through its lungs.
他的肺发生了实变，肺泡结构被破坏，实得像一块猪肝。
His lungs had solidified, his alveolar structure had been destroyed, and he looked like a pig's liver.
然后是肺部纤维化，像是一个风干已久的气球，失去了弹性，变得硬且脆。
Then there is pulmonary fibrosis, like a long-dried balloon that loses its elasticity and becomes hard and brittle.
任何外力都可能使其发生范性形变——撑开，然后破裂。
Any external force can cause it to take on a normative deformation - push open and then burst.
他的免疫系统已经奄奄一息，心脏和肾脏也遭受了攻击，可他毫无察觉。
His immune system was moribund and his heart and kidneys were attacked, but he did not know it.
突然他发现脚下不是终点，而是悬崖边缘。
Suddenly he noticed that the foot was not the end but the edge of the cliff.
他坠入海面，下沉，拼命挣扎，可他再也呼吸不到一口气。
He sank to the surface and struggled desperately, but he could not breathe another breath.
最终，他的死因上写着：新型冠状病毒引起的肺炎。
Eventually, the cause of his death was written as follows: pneumonia caused by the new coronavirus.
新冠病毒不仅攻击肺，还会攻击免疫系统、心肌和肾脏；还能导致患者体内二氧化碳潴留，引发酸中毒；也可能破坏患者体内的代偿机制。
The virus attacks not only the lungs, but also the immune system, the heart and the kidneys; it also promotes carbon dioxide retention in the body, leading to acidosis; and it can also disrupt compensation mechanisms in patients.
这是过去两个月里，临床医生对新冠病毒认识的推进。
This is the last two months, clinicians on the new crown virus awareness of the advancement.
在不同医院的疑难病例讨论会上，出现过十多例患者突然心跳骤停的病例。
There have been more than a dozen cases of sudden cardiac arrest in different hospitals.
这既可能是因为一时缺氧导致，也可能是新冠病毒攻击患者心肌的结果。
This could be the result of a temporary lack of oxygen, or the result of an attack on the heart muscle by the new canopy virus.
医生们观察到一些心肌受损的标志物参数升高，但患者并没有典型的心衰表现。
Doctors observed elevated parameters of markers of myocardial damage, but the patients did not show typical heart failure.
通俗地说，患者心肌受损，但心脏功能没有出现障碍。
In layman's terms, the heart muscle was damaged, but there was no impairment in heart function.
心脏的每个细胞都受伤了，但它们还在勉强咬牙工作，而到了某个临界点，所有的细胞都突然罢工。
Every cell of the heart was injured, but they were still gritting their teeth, and at some point all the cells went on strike.
北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生指出，“新冠肺炎”的称呼或许低估了病毒带来的最严重后果，应该称为“新冠病毒感染”。
Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Beijing Concorde Hospital, said the term "new crown pneumonia" might underestimate the worst consequences of the virus and should be called a "new crown virus infection."
“受到攻击的不仅仅是肺，只是肺最先受到攻击。
"It's not just the lungs that are under attack. It's the lungs that are the first to be attacked.
”李太生说。
"said Li.
武汉协和医院，一位转到普通病房的患者双手合十向医生表达感激 图/南方周末记者 翁洹“太难了，我们也是在猜”“面对一种新疾病，每个医生积累的所谓经验，都是一个个去世的病人教会我们的。
In Wuhan Concorde Hospital, a patient who had been transferred to the general ward with both hands expressed gratitude to the doctor / Southern Weekend reporter Hun Huan. Huan Huan was too difficult, we were guessing too
”宣武医院ICU主任姜利说。
"Xuanwu Hospital ICU Director Jiang Li said.
她也是国家卫健委最早点名驰援金银潭的专家，与钟鸣同一病区。
She was also one of the first experts to name and rescue the gold and silver pool in the same area as Zhong Ming.
如前文所述，在ICU里，死亡会突然发生，这不是ICU医生允许的事。
As noted earlier, death can occur suddenly in the ICU, which is not permitted by an ICU doctor.
他们的职责就是与死神抢人，曾经屡屡成功。
Their job is to rob people of death, and they have had many successes.
他们希望自己明确地知道每个患者在每个病情阶段应该怎么处理，然后拽住患者。
They want to know exactly what each patient should do at each stage of their illness and then drag the patient along.
“轻症多，重症重。
"There are many serious cases.
”多数患者可以在方舱跳舞，部分人需要高流量氧气支持，不到4%的患者会转为危重症。
Most patients can dance in the square, some need high-flow oxygen support, and less than four percent will become critically ill.
在武汉50004例确诊（截至2020年3月16日24时）的基础上，4%意味着2000例转为危重症。
On the basis of 500004 confirmed cases in Wuhan (as of 2400 hours on March 16, 2020), 4% means that 2,000 cases have become critically ill.
如果不是见过危重病人，医生们往往无法体会新冠病毒的可怕。
Doctors would not have been able to appreciate the horror of the new crown virus had they not seen the critically ill.
周翔真正产生恐惧是看到遗体解剖结果后。
Zhou Xiang's real fear was to see the autopsy results after the body.
遗体解剖对认识病毒的病理特征、探索病因治疗至关重要，但由于传染病高危风险、与患者家属沟通不利等等因素，新冠患者的第一例解剖直到2月16日才完成，2月28日发布报告。
Anatomy of the remains is essential to understand the pathologic features of the virus and to explore etiology and treatment, but due to factors such as high risk of infectious diseases, poor communication with the patient's family and so on, the first autopsy of the new crown patient was not completed until 16 February, when the report was released.
周翔从最近的一起解剖会诊中得知，患者“肺泡上皮的II型肺泡上皮细胞呈肿瘤样增长”，这意味着患者的肺泡结构被破坏，而这个结构是气体在肺部正常交换赖以生存的基础。
Zhou Xiang learned from a recent autopsy that "alveolar epithelial cell type II of the alveolar epithelium is tumor-like," meaning that the alveolar structure, which is the basis for normal gas exchange in the lungs, is destroyed.
“对于这种呈肿瘤样增长的II型细胞，说实话我们现在没有办法。
"There's nothing we can do about this tumor-like growth of Type 2 cells," he said.
”周翔说。
"said Zhou Xiang.
遗憾的是，遗体解剖所呈现的是终末状态，这个疾病在发展过程中的演变，我们仍缺少病理学的解释。
Unfortunately, the autopsy of the body revealed the end state, the evolution of the disease in the course of its development, and we still lack pathologic explanations.
也就是说，临床医生现在只是了解了新冠肺炎的发生、发展，还没能够学会迅速阻断某个环节的进展。
In other words, clinicians are only now aware of the onset and progression of new crown pneumonia, and have yet to learn to block progress quickly.
几次不同的疑难病例讨论结束后，我们都在电梯里听到一些知名医学专家叹息：“太难了，我们也是在猜。
After several different difficult cases were discussed, we all heard prominent medical experts sigh in the elevator: "It's too difficult, we're guessing too.
”世界卫生组织3月1日发布的疫情报告指出，新冠肺炎重症患者的死亡率超过50%。
The World Health Organization (WHO) reported on March 1 that deaths from severe cases of pneumonia were more than 50 percent.
据武汉市卫健委的疫情工作汇报，武汉几家接受重症患者的大病区，除同济医院光谷院区外，2月的全院死亡率在9.38%-12.36%之间，ICU的死亡率均超过60%。
According to the report on the work of the Wuhan Health Commission, the mortality rate of the hospital in February was between 9.38% and 12.36%, with the exception of the Guanggu courtyard district of Tongji Hospital, where the death rate exceeded 60%.
在采访中，桑岭说了几次“不过瘾”，这是广东话描述心里不舒服的意思。
In the interview, Sang Ling said several times "not to be addicted", this is Cantonese describes the mind uncomfortable meaning.
他是个有些意气的医生，他拿去疑难病例讨论会的病例往往只有一个原因：尽了一切努力，已经出现了好转的迹象，为什么突然人就没了呢？“我真的不知道为什么人就没了。
He was a bit of a distraught doctor, and there was often only one reason for the cases he took to the discussion of problematic cases: after all his efforts, there were signs of improvement, and why was the man suddenly gone? I really don't know why people are gone
”桑岭反复说，“我只能描述为什么这个病难搞，但是我不知道为什么……”一位北协和的医生在内部开会时突然哭起来，说觉得自己好没用，救不了人；一位援助金银潭的医生在一晚上经历了四个患者的死亡之后，连着几天不断向周围的人描述那晚的经历。
"I can only describe why it's difficult, but I don't know why..." A Bei Concorde doctor burst into tears during an internal meeting, saying he didn't think he was useful enough to save people.
而在2月中旬，钟鸣曾经疲惫地对我们说：“过往的经验都不管用了，我可能做错了。
And in mid-February, Bell once wearily said to us: "The past experience is useless, I may have made a mistake.
”医生和护士都在尽力，但人类认识烈性传染病的过程，代价就是一个一个生命。
Doctors and nurses do their best, but the price of understanding a powerful infectious disease is a life.
关口前移从2月初起，不断有专家呼吁关口前移。
Since the beginning of February, experts have been calling for the closure to move forward.
姜利最希望做的就是每天去所有普通病区走一圈，把那些看着快要出问题的患者挑出来，有机会能进ICU得到照顾。
What Jiang would most like to do is walk around all the common areas every day and single out those who are going to have trouble getting care of themselves in the ICU.
“以灾难学里的地震应急处理为例，地震中像我们这样的重症医生是不去第一线的，第一线的人是去筛选伤员，检伤分类，然后分级后送。
"In the case of earthquake emergency management in disaster sciences, doctors with severe illnesses like us are not on the front line in earthquakes. The first line of action is to screen for the wounded, sort out injuries, and then sort them out.
”姜利说。
'she said.
姜利 图/受访者提供在1月18日印发的第二版诊疗方案中，国家卫健委将患者分为疑似、确诊、重症和危重症病人，而2月5日印发的第五版中，则更改为轻型、普通、重型和危重型。
Jiang Li-tu / interviewees provided information that in the second edition of the consultation programme issued on 18 January, the National Board of Health classified patients as suspected, diagnosed, severely and critically ill, while in the fifth edition, issued on 5 February, it was changed to light, ordinary, heavy and critical.
“重型和危重型是一个应急管理的分层分级。
"Heavy and critical" is a layered hierarchy of emergency management.
他们对医疗资源的需求更高。
They have a higher demand for medical resources.
”邱海波解释说。
"said Cupid.
其中的危重型患者，就是常规临床上的重症病人。
Among them the critical type patient is the routine clinical severe patient.
到了2月中旬，国家卫健委明确要求各个医院关口前移，这成为此次疫情重症救治至关重要的判断。
By mid-February, the National Fitness and Health Commission explicitly asked hospitals to move forward, this has become the critical diagnosis of severe treatment of the epidemic.
“我们要求临床医生要做到关口前移，一定要把握住能够抢救患者生命的有利时机，及早使用有创呼吸机，恢复患者的血氧饱和度，把死亡率降下来。
"We require clinicians to take advantage of the opportunity to save a patient's life, to use an invasive ventilator early, to restore the patient's oxygen saturation and to reduce mortality," he said.
”国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉2月15日表示。
Jiao Yahui, deputy director of the National Hospital Authority, said on February 15.
“重症治疗的手段要提前介入，同时也要把轻的看好。
"The means of severe treatment to intervene in advance, but also to light optimistic.
你轻症转院也要打出提前量转，太重了转到那里就不行了，国家卫健委后来要求我们专门弄了一个转诊原则和转诊流程。
You need to be transferred to the hospital early, too heavy to transfer there will not be able to, the National Fitness and Health Commission later asked us to specialize in a referral principle and referral process.
”童朝晖说。
"said Tong.
“前期武汉市指挥部统计过，转院转到医院就死的有130还是140人，说明一个是病情重，第二个转晚了。
"The early Wuhan city command statistics, referred to the hospital on the death of 130 or 140 people, indicating that a serious illness, the second turned late.
”一位卫健委的相关人士告诉我们。
A member of the health committee told us.
但关口前移不仅仅是及早插管，而且是全方位的关口前移。
But the pass forward is not only the early intubation, but also the omni-directional pass forward.
在疑难病例讨论会上，多位医生指出，新冠肺炎是一种急性疾病，不能等到指标掉下来才反应，必须提前干预。
At the Troubled Cases Symposium, doctors pointed out that new crown pneumonia is an acute disease that cannot wait until the target falls and must intervene early.
调集武汉的一万九千ICU医护不仅仅在ICU工作——武汉真正意义上的ICU病床大约有400张。
Mobilizing Wuhan's 19,000 ICU medical staff is not just in the ICU - Wuhan's true meaning has about 400 ICU beds.
更多的ICU医护，比如上海中山医院、北京大学附属人民医院的重症团队，都进入了普通病房改造的重症病房中。
More ICU care, such as the intensive care team at the Zhongshan Hospital in Shanghai and the People's Hospital affiliated with Peking University, are in the intensive care unit of the general ward.
ICU医护往往对患者的病情变化更为敏感，“把ICU医生推进去，就是细心地观察病人。
ICU care is often more sensitive to changes in a patient's condition. "To push ICU further is to observe the patient carefully."
不但充分发挥ICU医生对各种生命支持技术的经验和能力，而且能把病人评估好、判断好然后再去做。
Not only can the experience and ability of ICU doctors on various life support techniques be brought into full play, but patients can be evaluated, judged and then done.
”复旦大学附属中山医院重症科副主任罗哲说。
"Fudan University affiliated Zhongshan Hospital, Zhongshan Department of the Deputy Director of Ruozhe said.
从2月22日起，新冠肺炎患者重症病例呈现了第一次持续的减幅，三天减少了1908例。
Since February 22, the first sustained reduction in the number of severe cases in patients with New Crown Pneumonia was recorded, with a 3-day reduction of 1,908 cases.
3月6日，武汉红十字会医院，排队出院的新冠肺炎治愈患者 图/陈卓打地鼠就像是玩打地鼠，冒出一个打一个。
Mar 6, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, queuing out of the treatment of patients with New Crown Pneumonia chart / Chen Zhuotai rats like to play a game of hamster, out of a hit.
重症救治所能做的只有对症治疗，哪里不行救哪里。
Serious treatment can do only symptomatic treatment, where can not save where.
有痰了就化痰拍痰吸痰，合并感染了用抗生素，血压高了降压，氧合不好可以去调整呼吸机或者俯卧位通气。
sputum on the sputum patter suction sputum, combined with infection with antibiotics, high blood pressure pressure, poor oxygen can adjust the ventilator or prone position ventilation.
俯卧位通气是一种改善急性呼吸窘迫患者氧合的手段，它以往是对部分患者有效，这次几乎是对所有患者有效。
Prostrate ventilation is a means of improving oxygen homeostasis in patients with acute respiratory distress. It has previously been effective for some patients, this time for almost all patients.
这是1月下旬邱海波他们三位专家组成员在金银潭查房摸索出的规律。
This is in late January Qiu Haibo they three expert group members grope in the gold and silver pool room grope the law.
在金银潭供氧条件无法改善、调整呼吸机的效果也不明显的情况下，他们尝试了连续俯卧位通气，发现这能改善多数患者的氧合。
When oxygen conditions in the gold and silver pools failed to improve and the effects of the ventilator were not apparent, they attempted continuous prone ventilation, which was found to improve oxygenation in most patients.
“连续进行12小时俯卧位通气”后来被写入第五版的诊疗方案中。
"12 hours of continuous prone position ventilation" was later written into the fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment plan.
3月13日，世界卫生组织发布了更新后的“疑似2019新型冠状病毒（COVID-19）导致严重急性呼吸道感染的临床管理临时指南”，在对危重型患者的治疗意见中，前三条均为有创通气相关，第四条是建议每天俯卧位通气12-16小时。
On March 13, the World Health Organization (WHO) issued updated "Provisional Guidelines for Clinical Management of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections Suspected of 2019 New Coronavirus (COVID-19)," the first three of which are all associated with invasive ventilation, and the fourth recommends 12-16 hours of floor ventilation daily.
重症患者不仅是从新冠病毒那儿抢回来的，也是ICU医护们守出来的。
Severe cases are not only recovered from the new crown virus, but also guarded by ICU health care workers.
他们监控着患者的每一点变化，一旦走到悬崖边缘，医生就尽可能托住患者，也许有些人就托住了。
They monitor every bit of change in the patient, and once they reach the edge of the cliff, the doctor holds the patient as close as possible to him or her.
新冠肺炎会引起急性呼吸窘迫，而急性呼吸窘迫的一个基本治疗原则是限制液体。
Acute respiratory distress is caused by new crown pneumonia, and a basic principle of treatment for acute respiratory distress is to restrict fluid.
但另一方面，不少患者会因为合并感染而引发休克，休克则需要补液复苏。
On the other hand, many patients will be suffering from shock due to co-infection, shock requires fluid resuscitation.
ICU医生常常会碰到这种两难境地。
This dilemma is often encountered by Dr. ICU.
“两害相权取其轻。
"Two evils are worse than evil.
”钟鸣说。
"said the bell.
在一个设备足够的ICU里，病人会被上满监测仪器。
In a fully equipped ICU, the patient is filled with a monitoring device.
ICU的医护守在患者身边——姜利甚至会搬来小板凳坐着，根据指征和患者的临床表现随时调整治疗方案。
ICU care is at the side of the patient - Jiang Li even moves in a stool to sit and adjust the treatment to the indications and clinical manifestations of the patient.
但金银潭的ICU最初只能做心电监护、血氧饱和度监测和无创血压监测。
But gold and silver pool ICU can only do ECG monitoring, blood oxygen saturation monitoring and non-invasive blood pressure monitoring.
在过去50天里，金银潭逐渐增加了有创压力监测、中心静脉压测定，还有呼气末二氧化碳模块——这是钟鸣通过关系要来监测模块，用以提早处理患者体内的二氧化碳潴留问题。
Over the past 50 days, the gold and silver pools have been progressively enhanced with invasive pressure monitoring, central venous pressure measurements, and end-of-breath carbon dioxide modules - the bell-through-relationship monitoring module for early treatment of carbon dioxide retention in patients.
监测的是地鼠，一旦冒出头，医生们就想法儿打下去，能够托住生命的手段几乎都用上了。
The rats were monitored, and when they emerged, the doctors tried to fight on, using almost all the means of holding their lives.
在同济医院的ICU病房里，一个患者床边放了四台机器：ECMO(体外膜肺氧合)、CRRT(连续肾脏替代疗法)、呼吸机，还有输液泵。
In the ICU ward at Tongji Hospital, four machines were placed beside a patient's bed: ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation), CRRT (continuous renal replacement therapy), ventilator, and infusion pump.
他被插满管子，其中一根通向CRRT上一个与矿泉水瓶差不多大的粗管中。
He was filled with pipes, one of which led to a thick tube about the size of a mineral water bottle on CRRT.
患者体内的血液走过一段蜿蜒的道路，被过滤掉炎症介质，再重回体内。
The blood in the patient's body passes through a winding road, is filtered out of the inflammatory medium, and then returns to the body.
这都是医学救治中的重武器，用当前医学最猛的手段去拉住一个人的生命。
These are all heavy weapons in medical treatment, using the most violent means of current medicine to hold a person's life.
但这都只能维持住病人的生命，康复的决定性因素在于病人的自愈能力。
But this can only maintain the life of the patient, the decisive factor in recovery lies in the patient's ability to heal.
因而ECMO的使用也带有争议：一旦病人的心肺发生了不可逆的损害，无法自愈，即使能维持住生命，依然无解。
The use of ECMO is thus controversial: once the patient's heart and lungs are irreversibly damaged, unable to heal itself, even if able to sustain life, there is no solution.
“这个病最痛苦的地方是迄今为止没有病因治疗，都是在支持治疗。
"The most painful aspect of the disease is that so far there has been no treatment and it is supportive of treatment.
”周翔说。
"said Zhou Xiang.
武汉儿童医院，护士蔡慧在安抚一个哭泣的感染了新型冠状病毒肺炎的婴儿 图/南方周末记者 翁洹ICU——“I Care U”如果非说来武汉有什么私心，那黄晓波的私心就是来做个纯粹的医生。
Wuhan Children's Hospital, nurse Cai Hui is pacifying a crying baby picture infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia / Southern Weekend Journalist Hun Huan Huan If Wuhan had any selfish intentions, then Huang Xiaobo's selfish intention was to be a pure doctor.
他是四川省人民医院的ICU主任，带着四川省第一批援鄂医疗队在1月25日到达武汉，接管红十字会医院——最早来的几支医疗队都被分去疫情最为惨烈的医院。
He arrived in Wuhan on January 25 with the first medical teams from Sichuan Province to take over the Red Cross hospital, the first few medical teams to be sent to the worst-hit hospitals.
《南方人物周刊》在早前报道里提到，四川医疗队用了十天时间重建了被新冠病毒摧毁的医院，而这之后，黄晓波的主要任务，就是救治重症患者。
After 10 days of rebuilding a hospital destroyed by the new crown virus, the Sichuan team's main task was to treat patients in serious condition, the Southern People's Weekly reported earlier.
“我们做医生的，能只做医生是一种理想状态，只需要想我们的病人。
"It's an ideal condition for us to be doctors, just to think about our patients.
”黄晓波说。
'he said.
在武汉，医生们不需要面对人情纠葛：这个人是我的上级，我要怎么谈，这个人是我的下级，我要怎么说。
Wuhan, doctors do not have to face human entanglement: this person is my superior, what I want to talk about, this person is my subordinate, what I say.
在国家财政的支持下，医生们不需要担忧病人因为费用不足而无法得到最好的治疗，也不需要为医患关系而战战兢兢。
With financial support from the state, doctors do not have to worry that patients will not be able to get the best treatment for lack of money, nor will they have to be afraid of a doctor-patient relationship.
黄晓波把ICU解释成“I Care U”：我谨慎地照顾你。
Huang interprets the ICU as "I Care U": I take good care of you.
这是罕见的时刻，患者全身心依赖医护人员。
This is a rare moment when patients are totally dependent on healthcare professionals.
患者会对护士说，护士我特别饿，我想吃东西，护士给他剥水果。
The patient would tell the nurse, Nurse, I'm very hungry. I want to eat. The nurse will peel the fruit.
也有患者主动帮忙，因为眼见防护服下的护士憋得脸通红。
There were also patients who offered to help because the nurses under the protective clothing were red-faced.
一位金银潭的护士说，她已经很长时间没有感觉到自己职业的价值，但现在，她还是很热爱自己的职业。
'She hasn't felt the value of her career for a long time, but now she loves what she does, 'says a nurse at Silver Pool.
郑霞唯一一次掉眼泪，是她给一个患者插管的时候。
The only time Zheng Xia shed tears was when she intubated a patient.
她说，等你好了我就给你拔掉，你就能回家了。
She said, when you're all right, I'll pull you out, and you can go home.
“医生你叫什么？”患者问，“我要记住你，谢谢你。
"What's your name, doctor?" the patient asked. "I want to remember you, thank you.
”郑霞突然就开始流眼泪，护目镜都糊了。
"Zheng Xia suddenly began to shed tears and her goggles were all burnt.
“我不知道我这插管插下去，他还能活多久，可他还要谢谢我。
"I don't know how much longer he can live with my intubation, but he still thanks me.
”郑霞说。
"said Zheng Xia.
气管插管会增加患者的痛苦，增加合并感染的风险，所以医生往往需要费力气去说服家属同意插管。
Trachea intubation increases pain and increases the risk of co-infection, so doctors often struggle to persuade families to agree to an intubation.
但这次不一样，患者和家属都更容易理解医生的治疗决定。
But this time around, patients and their families are more likely to understand the doctor's decision.
在郑霞的病区，一位奶奶在同意插管后，在纸上写下了遗书：挺不过去了，房子该怎么分，钱该怎么分。
In Zheng Xia's sick area, a grandmother after agreeing to intubation, wrote on the paper: Not quite pass, how the house should be divided, how the money should be divided.
奶奶没挺过去，家属同意捐献遗体，用于病理解剖。
Grandmother did not survive, the family agreed to donate the body for pathologic autopsy.
即使有的患者难有好转的可能，医生也希望托住他们。
Even if some patients do not have the possibility of improvement, doctors hope to support them.
托住一个人的理由有很多种，比如希望他干净舒服一些，有尊严地离开。
There are many reasons to hold someone up, such as wanting him to be clean and comfortable and to leave with dignity.
姜利托了最久的患者是六十多岁的吴奶奶（化名）。
The longest-standing patient in Jiang Li-to is grandmother Wu (alias) in her sixties.
她给吴奶奶做了插管，两周后，长时间插管导致口腔中积存污物。
She intubated Grandma Wu, and after two weeks, a long intubation caused dirt to build up in her mouth.
姜利选择为她做气管切管，“让她走之前多少能干净些。
Jiang Li chose to do a trachea cut for her, "Let her go before more or less clean.
”在新冠肺炎疫情中，逝去的患者身处隔离病房，没有家属。
In the case of Newcrown Pneumonia, patients who died were in isolation wards and had no family members.
他身边可能有医护人员，可他看不清医护的脸。
There might be paramedics around him, but he couldn't see the doctor's face.
他们都包裹得严严实实，只从护目镜后露出一双眼。
They were all wrapped up and only one eye was visible from behind the goggles.
整个2月里，医护们常常遇到的情况是，给逝者家属打电话，家属却无法前来——他们也被隔离收治了。
Throughout the month of February, doctors and nurses often had to call the families of the deceased, who were unable to come - and were held in isolation.
“僵持”，这是进入3月以来，ICU医生最常使用的词。
"Stagnation," the word most often used by ICU doctors since March.
钟鸣僵持最久的一个患者插管时间超过一个月，他舍不得放弃。
Zhong Ming the longest standoff of a patient intubation time of more than a month, he is reluctant to give up.
一位在郑霞手上僵持的患者已经醒来，她渡过了最为惊险的镇静“戒断关”，与呼吸机配合，努力吸气。
A paralyzed patient in Zheng Xia's hand has woken up, she passed the most breathtaking sedation "cut-off", working with the ventilator, trying to breathe in.
在推她去做CT的路上，她给护士们写下两行字：请你走慢一点，我想看看沿途的风景。
On her way to the CT scan, she wrote two lines to the nurses: Slow down, please. I want to see the sights along the way.
“她是个坚韧的人，有顽强的求生意志。
She is a tough person with a strong will to survive.
”郑霞说。
"said Zheng Xia.
2月25日，武汉红十字会医院7楼临时ICU病房办公室，红会医院护士长杨莉正在整理去世的新冠肺炎患者的遗物。
February 25, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital temporary ICU ward office, the Red Cross Hospital head nurse Yang Li is tidying up the deceased patients of the New Crown Pneumonia.
杨莉表示“等到疫情结束了会尽力将这些遗物交还给他们的亲人，那些手机里一定还留存着他们一家人最珍贵的记忆” 图/陈卓断后“对中国最好医院的ICU医生来说，这次疫情意味着什么？”我们问周翔。
"When the outbreak is over, we will do everything we can to return the relics to their loved ones, who must still have the most precious memories of their families," Yang said.
“没有医生愿意失败。
"No doctor wants to fail.
可能我以后都跟这个病较上劲儿了，我们还是期望能有一个解决的办法。
Maybe I am better off with this illness, we still hope to have a solution.
”他回答。
'he replied.
驰援武汉的心理专家、上海市精神卫生中心副院长王振告诉我们，已经有一些医护人员出现了创伤后遗症。
Wang Zhen, a psychologist at Wuhan and vice-president of Shanghai Mental Health Center, told us that some medical staff have suffered from traumatic sequelae.
有的医生是无意识回避1月的经历，一旦别人问起，他仿佛什么都记不起来。
Some doctors avoid their January experiences unconsciously, and once asked, they seem to have no memory.
有的护士出现了“闪回”，患者去世前抢救的场景，总是会突然出现在眼前。
Some nurses appear "flash back", the scene that the patient rescues before the death, always can appear suddenly in front of the eyes.
“她记得很清楚，患者前几分钟还在说话，突然就不行了。
"She remembered quite well that the patient had been talking for a few minutes and had suddenly lost it.
然后她感觉自己在看电影，能看到其他人在抢救患者，其实她也参与其中，但对自己的行为没有任何记忆。
Then she felt like she was watching a movie, she could see other people trying to save the patient, but she had no memory of what she had done.
”ICU常常成为托底病房。
The ICU often serves as a back room.
无力救治的病区，会将患者转向医疗能力较强的ICU，以至于在一次内部会议上，副院长刘继红发火道：“不要再往ICU转了！你们就是ICU，就地抢救！”有时候，被大医院退回的新冠肺炎轻症但有其他重疾的老年患者，被送到区级医院的ICU里。
In an internal meeting, Vice President Liu Jihong raged, "Don't turn to the ICU any more! You are ICU, in situ!" Sometimes elderly patients with mild pneumonia returned from major hospitals but with other serious illnesses are sent to ICUs in district hospitals.
在一家区级医院的ICU里，11个患者均在70岁以上，新冠核酸检测都已转阴，但自身的其他疾病使得维系生命困难重重。
In the ICU of a district hospital, 11 patients are over the age of 70, and Nucleic Acid testing is cloudy, but their own other illnesses make life difficult.
“有大量病人在短时间内离去，我们都直接或者间接目睹了一个家庭的悲剧，其实这个对我们的打击比任何时候都要大。
"We've all seen a family tragedy, directly or indirectly, with a large number of patients leaving in a short time, and it's hit us harder than ever.
”钟鸣说。
"said the bell.
在武汉，救治新冠肺炎患者的战役正逐步进入尾声。
In Wuhan, the campaign to treat patients with Newcastle pneumonia is drawing to a close.
2月下旬开始，武汉现有新冠肺炎重症患者人数连续下降，从9628例减到3月16日的2695例。
Since late February, the number of serious cases of pneumonia in Wuhan has declined steadily, from 9,628 to 2,695 on March 16.
现在，我们有时能看到樱花树下出现了驻足留影的医护人员，援鄂的外地医务人员也在陆续返乡。
Now, we sometimes see medical staff stopping under cherry trees, and medical workers from overseas in Hubei are returning home.
3月底，武汉全市46家定点医院全部恢复正常医疗体系，金银潭医院、肺科医院和雷神山将会留到最后，接收新冠肺炎患者。
By the end of March, all 46 designated hospitals in Wuhan had resumed normal medical systems, and the gold and silver pool hospital, lung hospital and Lei Shenshan would be left to receive patients with new crown pneumonia.
“我们是要断后的。
"We're going to stop.
最早来，最晚走。
The earliest, the last.
”在金银潭连续工作了54天的姜利说。
"said Jiang, who has worked continuously for 54 days in the gold and silver pool.
中国人物类媒体的领导者提供有格调、有智力的人物读本记录我们的命运·为历史留存一份底稿戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
Chinese character media leaders provide stylish, intellectual characters to read books that record our destinies. Save a manuscript for history poke the pictures below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
终极一战：与死神抢人。
Ultimate World War I: Robbery with Death.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "终极一战：与死神抢人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with Death.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
