重建大感染科，一个张文宏救不了这个“不赚钱的科室”。
Reconstruction big infection department, a Zhang Wenhong can not save this "unprofitable department."
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
在眼下这场新冠病毒阻击战中原本应是主力军的医院感染科却显得力不从心1月20日，武汉市金银潭医院南楼，。
The hospital infection department, which was supposed to be the main force in the new Crown Virus Blockade, was overstretched January 20, the south wing of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
一名医护人员站在窗口透气。
A paramedic stood at the window to breathe.
最早。
The earliest.
的新冠重症病人都收治于此。
All patients with severe new crowns were admitted to the hospital.
摄影/厉禹王新冠疫情重压下的感染科本刊记者/杜玮 彭丹妮 杨程晨发于2020.3.23总第940期《中国新闻周刊》医院感染科是新发、突发传染病及其他重大公共卫生事件发生时，冲在第一线的科室。
Photo / Li Yu Wang under the weight of the infectious disease This print journalist / Du Wei Pendani Yang Chen sends in 2020.3.23 General No. 940 The Hospital Infection Section of China Newsweek is the front-line department in the event of new outbreaks of infectious diseases and other major public health events.
然而，武汉大学人民医院感染科主任龚作炯却指出，实际上，武汉市当地多家市属医院都长期没有开设感染科。
However, Gong Zhonghong, director of infection department at Wuhan University's People's Hospital, pointed out that, in fact, many local hospitals in Wuhan had not opened infection departments for a long time.
因此，在新冠肺炎疫情初期，很多患者都被集中在专门收治传染病患者的金银潭医院，令该医院在很长一段时间内承受了无法承受的压力。
As a result, in the early days of the outbreak, many patients were concentrated in a dedicated gold and silver pool hospital for patients with infectious diseases, putting the hospital under unbearable pressure for a long time.
2003年SARS结束后，中国曾迎来一轮感染科的发展热潮。
After SARS ended in 2003, China experienced a boom in infection control.
然而，17年之后，在眼下这场新冠病毒阻击战中，原本应是主力军的医院感染科，却显得力不从心，暴露出人员、场地、设备均严重不足等诸多问题。
Seventeen years later, however, the hospital infection department, which was supposed to be the main force in the new Crown Virus Blockade, is overstretched, revealing severe shortages of personnel, sites and equipment.
中华医学会感染病学分会主任委员、北京大学第一医院感染疾病科主任兼肝病中心主任王贵强在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时表示，从这次疫情可以看出，国家需再次重视感染科的发展，感染学科的发展应回归到“大感染学科”建设的路径上来。
In an interview with China News Weekly, Wang Guiqiang, director of the Infection Disease Unit of the First Hospital of Peking University and director of the Liver Disease Center, said that the outbreak showed that the country needed to pay more attention to the development of the infection department.
因病而变的感染科王贵强的办公室位于北大第一医院门诊楼南侧一栋灰色老旧的三层行政楼内，行政楼一层从今年1月23日起开设发热门诊，他所在的感染科全员上阵。
Infections due to illness Kwai Keqiang's office is located in an old gray three-storey administrative building on the south side of the outpatient building of Peking University's First Hospital. The first floor of the administration building has been open since 23 January this year.
开设之初，每天有上百门诊量，最近的门诊量为每天二三十。
At the beginning, there were hundreds of outpatient visits per day, the most recent being 20 or 30 per day.
北大第一医院也是国内较早设立感染科的医疗机构之一，只不过那时的感染科还叫传染科。
Peking University Hospital No. 1 is also one of the earliest hospitals in the country to set up an infection department.
1950年代，鼠疫、霍乱、伤寒、痢疾、血吸虫病等经典传染病还在中国流行。
Classic infectious diseases such as plague, cholera, typhoid, dysentery and schistosomiasis were still prevalent in China in the 1950s.
为更好防控这些传染病，1955年，当时的国家卫生部出台了《传染病管理办法》，随后各大学附属医院纷纷成立传染科。
To better control these infectious diseases, in 1955 the then Ministry of Health promulgated the Measures for the Management of Infectious Diseases, which were followed by the establishment of infection departments in various university hospitals.
北大第一医院传染科即于1955年成立，创始人是时任医院副院长、大内科主任吴朝仁。
Peking University Hospital No. 1 Infection Division was established in 1955, the founder of the then Vice-President of the hospital, Grand Neuroscience Director Wu Chaoren.
“当时传染科的力量非常强大，国家重视，传染科由精英人物组建。
"At that time, the power of the infection department was very strong, the country attached importance to the infection by elite figures.
”王贵强说。
'said Wang.
这种专门治疗传染病的学科模式，被称为苏联模式，这也是国内绝大多数医院最初建立传染科采用的方式。
This model of specialization in the treatment of infectious diseases, known as the Soviet model, was also the way the vast majority of hospitals in the country initially established the infectious disease unit.
传染科设有隔离病房，与此同时，当时国内多地还建立了传染病专科医院。
At the same time, specialized hospitals for infectious diseases were established in many parts of the country.
北京最早的传染病专科医院为地坛医院，1946年建成。
The first special hospital for infectious diseases in Beijing was Ditan Hospital, built in 1946.
与苏联模式相对应的是西方国家模式。
The counterpart of the Soviet model is the Western model.
当时，像中国国内流行的经典传染病在美国等已较为少见，医生接诊以非传染性的感染性疾病为主，比如说，神经系统感染、败血症、尿路感染等，这样的发展模式被称为感染科。
At that time, classic infectious diseases such as those prevalent in China were rare in the United States, where doctors treated mainly for non-communicable diseases, such as nervous system infections, septicaemia, urinary tract infections, etc., a development known as the Infection Department.
中国感染科的发展路径，复制了西方曾经走过的路。
The development path of the Chinese Infection Department replicates the path that the West has taken.
哈佛大学医学文化学教授大卫·琼斯告诉《中国新闻周刊》，1950年代以前，欧美几乎所有的医生实际上都是传染病学专家，因为对付传染病是他们做得最多的事情。
David Jones, a professor of medical culture at Harvard University, told China News Weekly that almost all doctors in Europe and the United States were actually infectious disease experts before the 1950s because they did the most to deal with infectious diseases.
当时，医生们的主要工作就是管理各种感染性疾病，轻如感冒、腹泻，严重如天花、肺炎、小儿麻痹症⋯⋯20世纪初期，传染病是人类疾病的前沿与中心。
At that time, doctors were mainly engaged in the management of infectious diseases such as colds, diarrhoea, severe cases such as smallpox, pneumonia and polio etc. Infectious diseases were at the forefront and center of human diseases in the early 20th century.
到20世纪中叶，西方社会已经弥漫着一种自信：征服各种传染病已经指日可待。
By the middle of the twentieth century, Western societies had developed a self-confidence that conquest of infectious diseases was within reach.
几乎每一周，医疗机构都会宣布，在人类同传染病的战争中又取得了“奇迹般的突破”。
Almost every week, the medical establishment announces another "miraculous breakthrough" in the battle against infectious diseases.
1940年代初抗生素的发现，到1965年25000多种抗生素类药物的研发、1955年大规模脊髓灰质炎疫苗接种等事件，是这种自信的来源。
The discovery of antibiotics in the early 1940s, the development of more than 25,000 antibiotic drugs by 1965, and mass polio vaccination in 1955 were sources of such confidence.
1967年，美国公共卫生部宣布，对感染性疾病的战斗已经赢得胜利。
In 1967, the United States Department of Public Health announced that the battle against infectious diseases had been won.
当时，甚至有人提出，不需要再独立设置传染性疾病科。
At the time, it was even suggested that there was no need for a separate infectious disease unit.
但随后，艾滋病的出现，给了这个领域当头棒喝。
But then, the emergence of AIDS, gave the field a bang for the buck.
中国的情况也是类似。
The situation in China is similar.
到了1980年代，中国人传染病的疾病谱也发生变化，霍乱、血吸虫病等逐渐退出历史舞台，病毒性肝炎成为发病率最高的感染性疾病。
By the 1980s, the disease spectrum of infectious diseases among the Chinese people had also changed. Cholera, schistosomiasis and other diseases had gradually dropped out of the history. Viral hepatitis had become the infectious disease with the highest incidence.
1970 年代，由于农村卫生条件落后加之人口出生率高，乙肝在中国迅速暴发。
In the 1970s, due to backward sanitary conditions in rural areas combined with a high birth rate, hepatitis B broke out rapidly in China.
尽管随着乙肝疫苗于1975年的成功研发，中国的乙肝发病率有了显著下降，但截至2019年，全国仍有8600万乙肝病毒感染者，肝炎防控形势依然严峻。
Although with the successful development of hepatitis B vaccine in 1975, the incidence of hepatitis B in China has decreased significantly, but by 2019 there are still 86 million people infected with the virus.
医院感染科的主要“客户”，长期就是各类肝病病人。
Hospital infection department of the main "customers," has long been a variety of patients with liver disease.
在“肝病大国”的帽子迟迟不能甩掉的同时，艾滋病、肾综合征出血热等新发传染病也陆续出现。
In the "liver disease big country" the hat can't shake off tardily, AIDS, kidney syndrome hemorrhagic fever and other new infectious diseases also appear successively.
自1985年中国报告第一例艾滋病病人以来，中国的艾滋病患病人数曾在此后10年里增长缓慢。
Since China reported its first case of AIDS in 1985, the number of people suffering from the disease has grown slowly over the next decade.
但从1995年开始，尤其是进入21世纪以来，进入快速增长期，截至2018年9月，全国现存活艾滋病病毒感染者与患者共85万人。
However, since 1995, and especially since the beginning of the 21st century, China has entered a period of rapid growth, with 850,000 people living with HIV / AIDS as of September 2018.
1984年，王贵强大学毕业后被分配到辽宁省阜新市传染病医院工作。
In 1984, after graduating from university, Wang Guiqiang was assigned to work in Fuxin Infectious Disease Hospital in Liaoning Province.
起初，他还能接触到流脑、痢疾、伤寒等传染病，后来，慢性乙型肝炎病例逐步增加。
Initially, he was exposed to infectious diseases such as brain drain, dysentery and typhoid fever, and later, chronic hepatitis B cases increased.
1980年代，中华医学会传染病与寄生虫病学分会成立，病毒性肝炎就是其主要防治内容。
In the 1980s, the Chinese Medical Association set up a credit bureau for infectious and parasitic diseases, viral hepatitis is its main prevention and treatment content.
“病毒性肝炎的治疗相对比较简单，以肝脏受累为主，除了大出血需要抢救，其他没太大难度”。
"Viral hepatitis treatment is relatively simple, to the liver involved in the main, in addition to bleeding need to be rescued, other not too difficult."
1990年代后，随着疫苗等防控手段的出现，经典传染病的发病率进一步下降，病人减少，传染病的病种也越来越少。
Since the 1990s, with the advent of vaccines and other means of prevention and control, the incidence of classic infectious diseases has further decreased, fewer patients have been infected and fewer diseases have been reported.
今年82岁的翁心华是复旦大学附属华山医院终身教授，也是国内感染学科的泰斗人物。
The 82-year-old Weng Xinhua is a tenured professor at Fudan University's Huashan Hospital and a leading domestic infectionist.
他对《中国新闻周刊》说，上世纪90年代前后，由于传染病患者数量的减少，医生们另谋他业，不少医院都在不同程度上裁撤传染科，传染科的规模出现萎缩。
He told China News Weekly that around the 1990s, as the number of patients with infectious diseases decreased and doctors sought other jobs, many hospitals abolished the department to varying degrees, and the size of the department of infection shrank.
湖北省孝感市云梦县人民医院是当地新冠肺炎的定点救治医院，感染科主任杨友明在这一科室做医生已有31年。
Yunmeng County People's Hospital in Hubei Province is the local fixed-point treatment hospital for new crown pneumonia, infection director Yang Youming has been a doctor in this department for 31 years.
他刚进入传染科时，科室还有40张床位，此后，其他科室床位逐步增加，传染科逐渐减少，到2003年SARS前后，传染科只剩下15张床位。
When he first entered the infection section, there were still 40 beds in the section. Since then, the number of beds in other sections has gradually increased and the infection unit has been gradually reduced, leaving only 15 beds in the Infection Section around the time of SARS in 2003.
但他对此表示理解，“这也是社会进步的一种表现”。
But he understood that, "it is also a manifestation of social progress."
3月8日，武汉同济医院光谷院区重症病房，护心队员周宁正在为危重症患者调整血氧饱和度。
On March 8, Wuhan Tongji Hospital Guang Gu hospital intensive care unit, caretaker Zhou Ning is adjusting the blood oxygen saturation for critically ill patients.
摄影/长江日报 金振强缪晓辉曾担任过中华医学会感染病学分会副主任委员、上海长征医院副院长、感染科主任。
Photo / Yangtze River Daily Jin Zhenqiang Mu Xiaohui has served as the Chinese Medical Association Infectious Disease Credit Association vice-chairman, Shanghai Long March Hospital Vice-President, Director of Infection Department.
1998年，他接手长征医院感染科时，这是一个“无论文、无基金、无成果”的三无科室。
In 1998, when he took over the infection department at Long March Hospital, he was a "paperless, unfunded, and unproductive" department.
2000年，医院要大力发展骨科，院领导想将拥有三十多张床位的感染科病房转作骨科病房，撤掉感染科，科室人员一部分去肾病科，另一部分人分流到长海医院，缪晓辉去做消化内科主任。
In 2000, the hospital will vigorously develop orthopaedics. The hospital leadership wants to transfer the more than 30-bed infection ward to the orthopaedic ward and remove the infection department. One part of the staff will go to the nephrology department, the other part will be diverted to Changhai Hospital.
缪晓辉不同意，找院领导据理力争，感染科才得以保留，但科室却被迫搬到医院三公里之外的一个由毛纺厂改建的康复科里。
Mui did not agree, sought the hospital leadership to argue, the infection department was able to retain, but the section was forced to move to a hospital three kilometers away from the rehabilitation section converted by the woolen mill.
面临生存危机的不止综合医院的感染科。
It is not just infection departments in general hospitals that face existential crisis.
2003年SARS前，因传染病患者大幅度减少，地坛医院曾一度面临被撤并入北京另一家传染病专科医院——佑安医院的命运。
Prior to SARS in 2003, Ditan Hospital was faced with the fate of Youan Hospital, another specialist hospital for infectious diseases in Beijing, after a sharp decline in the number of cases of infectious diseases.
当时，北京市卫生局表示，佑安医院有700多张病床，平时收治的病人只有三四百人，地坛医院有500张病床，常年收治病人的规模也就两三百人，两家医院都吃不饱，浪费资源。
At the time, the Beijing Municipal Health Bureau said the hospital had more than 700 beds, only three to four hundred patients were admitted at ordinary times, and the Ditan Hospital had 500 beds.
但在SARS时期，地坛医院收治了329名病人，危重症病人占到50％以上，对阻击疫情起了巨大作用，这在某种程度上“救”了地坛医院的命。
But during the SARS period, DiTan Hospital admitted 329 patients, critically ill patients accounted for more than 50%, played a great role in blocking the epidemic, which to some extent "saved" the DiTan Hospital's life.
而传染病的大幅减少也使得业内开始思考学科发展方向的改变。
And the sharp decline in infectious diseases has caused the industry to think about changes in the direction of discipline development.
1999年，第六届全国传染病和寄生虫病学术会议一致决定将中华医学会传染病与寄生虫病学分会更名为“感染病学分会”，北大第一医院的斯崇文教授彼时任主任委员。
In 1999, the Sixth National Academic Conference on Infectious and Parasitic Diseases unanimously decided to change the name of the Chinese Medical Association's infectious and parasitic disease credits to "Infectious Disease Credit Society," while Professor Sung-wen of Peking University Hospital No. 1 was then serving as chairman.
在三年前，北大第一医院已经将传染科改为感染疾病科。
Three years ago, Peking University Hospital No. 1 changed its infectious disease unit to an infectious disease unit.
到2002年，上海华山医院传染病科教授翁心华担任第七届分会主任委员时，分会正式更名，全国各级医院也相继将传染科改为感染科。
By 2002, when Weng Xinhua, a professor of infectious diseases at Shanghai Huashan Hospital, was the chairman of the 7th branch, the branch was officially renamed, and hospitals at all levels throughout the country changed their names to infection departments.
17年里的倒退温州医科大学第一附属医院感染科主任陈永平至今还对2003年抗击SARS时记忆深刻，设备仓库临时改造的隔离病房，用砖墙垒起来做物理隔离，一间病房里住四五个人，病区只开出一个小门给医生进出，没有“三区两通道”，根本是“螺蛳壳里做道场”。
Chen Yongping, director of infection at Wenzhou Medical University's First Affiliated Hospital for 17 years, still has a deep memory of the fight against SARS in 2003. The temporary isolation ward of the facility's warehouse is physically isolated with brick walls.
SARS过后，陈永平与院领导都觉得要加强感染科建设。
After SARS, Chen Yongping and the hospital leadership feel that we should strengthen the infection department construction.
2012年，医院感染科搬进了占地一万多平方米的新大楼，整栋楼负压设计，提供160多张床位，有移动CT等设备，医生和患者分别从地下一层和地上一层进入病区。
In 2012, the Hospital Infection Section moved into a new building covering more than 10,000 square metres, with a negative pressure design for the entire building, providing more than 160 beds and equipment such as mobile CT, with doctors and patients entering the area from the first basement level and the ground floor, respectively.
新冠疫情中，作为浙江省级的定点医院，温医大第一附院共收治了近百名疑似及确诊患者。
As a provincial hospital in Zhejiang Province, the No.1 Hospital of WenMU has treated nearly 100 suspected and confirmed patients.
翁心华记得，当年SARS发生后，原卫生部官员到上海了解三级医院感染病科发展情况。
Weng Xinhua remembers that after SARS occurred, the former Ministry of Health officials came to Shanghai to understand the development of the third-level hospital infectious diseases.
“我和他讲，医院里最破烂的地方、人少的地方就是感染病科”，这名官员回去后，就给上海市的医院拨款，加强感染科的建设。
"I told him that the worst part of the hospital, the least populated area, was the department of infectious disease," and the official went back and allocated money to the hospital in Shanghai to strengthen the infection department.
2004年，原卫生部要求，全国二级及以上综合性医院须建立感染性疾病科，同时开设发热门诊及肠道门诊，这两个门诊也成为绝大多数医院感染科承担的职责。
In 2004, the former Ministry of Health requested that infectious disease units be established in secondary and higher general hospitals throughout the country, along with fever clinics and intestinal clinics, which also became the responsibility of the majority of hospital infection departments.
但能有陈永平科室这样发展的仅为极少数。
But can have Chen Yongping department this development is very few.
2003年，赵晖所在的浙江乐清市人民医院感染科新建了隔离病房，当时在浙江省内也属先进。
In 2003, Zhao set up a new isolation ward in the Infection Section of Zhejiang Yueqing People's Hospital, which was also advanced in Zhejiang Province.
但17年过去，医院其他科室病房不断更新，赵晖所在的感染科还是老样子，当甲流H1N1、手足口病等疫情来袭时，病房根本就不够用。
But 17 years on, other departments of the hospital ward constantly updated, Zhao Hui's infection section is still the same, when A flow H1N1, hand, mouth disease and other outbreaks, the ward simply is not enough.
陈永平曾多次到温州及周边市县医院考察，他发现SARS过后的17年间，很多医院的感染科“基本没有发展”，应对此次疫情，有的医院依旧是医生和患者走同一通道，有的医院连隔离病房都没有。
Chen, who visited Wenzhou and its neighboring city and county hospitals many times, found that 17 years after SARS, the infection departments of many hospitals "basically did not develop," in response to the epidemic, some hospitals are still doctors and patients walk the same way, some hospitals even the isolation ward.
2003年，广州抢救SARS患者的一线医护人员做准备。
In 2003, Guangzhou rescue SARS patients front-line medical personnel to prepare.
图/FOTOE杨友明工作的湖北省孝感市云梦县人民医院感染科虽然有70张床位，但病房建于上世纪90年代，不符合隔离条件。
Picture / FOTOE Yang Youming working in Hubei province Xiaoyan City Yunmeng County People's Hospital infection department although there are 70 beds, but the ward was built in the 1990s, does not meet the conditions for isolation.
SARS过后，医院曾建了20张床位的标准隔离病房，在此次新冠疫情中，面对激增的病人，医院只能再将外科系统的病房整体改造，腾出400个床位。
In the wake of SARS, the hospital built a standard 20-bed isolation ward, and in the face of a surging number of patients, it was able to remodel the entire ward of the surgical system, freeing up 400 beds.
上海交通大学医学院附属瑞金医院感染科主任、中华医学会感染病分会副主任委员谢青等曾针对上海市57家二甲及以上综合医院感染病学科现状做过调查。
Xie Qing, director of infection department at Ruijin Hospital attached to Shanghai Jiaotong University Medical School and vice-chairman of the Infectious Disease Branch of the Chinese Medical Association, have investigated the current status of infectious diseases in 57 general hospitals in Shanghai.
2019年9月，他们发表的调查结果显示，上海市综合性医院感染科设置率为100％，但二级医院感染科病房设置率只有20％，总床位数328张，三级医院病房设置率要高一些，但也仅刚过一半，达55.56％，总床位数799张。
In September 2019, the survey results showed that the infection department of Shanghai General Hospital had a set rate of 100%, but only 20% of the infection wards in level II hospitals had a total of 328 beds, and the rate of hospital wards in level III hospitals was higher than half, 55.56 percent, with 799 beds.
武汉市一家二级综合医院——红十字会医院院长熊念在接受《中国新闻周刊》采访时称，该院感染科只有3个人，算是医院规模比较小的科室，当地其他二级医院感染科的人数也都与红会医院差不多，红会医院感染科一般不会收治呼吸系统传染病的病人，而是选择将其转往金银潭或肺科医院住院救治。
In an interview with China News Weekly, Xiong Nian, director of the Red Cross Hospital, a level II general hospital in Wuhan, told China News Weekly that there were only three people in the hospital's infection section.
上海交通大学副校长、医学院院长陈国强等在其发表的《新型冠状病毒感染疫情下的思考》一文中指出，武汉市的传染病医疗资源储备不足，武汉户籍人口及常住人口共1400万, 而两所专门的传染病医院——金银潭医院和肺科医院床位共900余张, 0.64床/万人, 远低于我国传染病医院床位数按城市非农业人口1.2-1.5床/万人设置的标准，与此同时，武汉市综合性医院内传染科体量非常有限。
The medical resources for infectious diseases in Wuhan are insufficient, with a total population of 14 million, while the number of beds in two hospitals for infectious diseases - gold, silver and gold, and lung - is far below the standard of 1.2-1.5 beds per 10,000 urban non-agricultural population.
1990年代以来，医疗开始市场化，感染科成为不赚钱的科室。
Since the 1990s, medicine has become market-oriented and the Infection Section has become an unprofitable department.
王贵强分析说，虽然SARS以后，传染科改为了感染科，但不少医院的感染科依然以看肝病、结核为主，传染病发病率下降，带来了科室业务量的减少，进而效益下降。
Wang Guiqiang analysis said that although after SARS, the infection department has been changed into the infection department, but many hospitals still focus on liver disease, tuberculosis, the incidence of infectious diseases has decreased, leading to a reduction in the department's business volume, and thus benefits.
而发热门诊、肠道门诊的接诊都有季节性，发热病人多在冬春季节，肠道疾病集中在夏秋发病，而且两个门诊看病人数都不多。
Fever out-patient clinics, intestinal outpatient treatment are seasonal, fever patients are mostly in the winter and spring season, intestinal diseases concentrated in the summer and autumn, and the number of two out-patient visits is not high.
以他所在的北大第一人民医院为例，大约4年前，一年的肠道门诊、发热门诊总量分别为1万例出头，平均下来每天只有三四十例病人。
At Peking University's First People's Hospital, for example, about four years ago, there were just over 10,000 outpatient and calorific clinics a year, an average of only 30 or 40 patients a day.
浙江乐清市人民医院的年门诊量为7万多例，这在同等级的县级医院已属于前列，其中，肝病占50％，结核占15％，不明原因发热占20％，还包括艾滋病等其他疾病。
Zhejiang Yueqing People's Hospital has an annual outpatient rate of over 70,000, which is already among the highest in the same level of county hospitals, with liver disease accounting for 50 per cent, tuberculosis for 15 per cent and unexplained fever for 20 per cent, as well as other diseases such as AIDS.
杨友明说，湖北孝感市云梦县人民医院感染科1年总的门诊量才1万例左右，发热门诊多的时候每天十几个病人，少的时候只有几个，工作量远远不饱和。
Yang said, Hubei Xiaoyan City Yunmeng County People's Hospital infection department of a total of only about 10, 000 outpatients per day, fever clinic more than a dozen patients a day, a few times when the workload is far from saturated.
赵晖将感染科的工作形容为“赔本买卖”，一方面，感染科的病房设置需要单独且较大的空间，病人因为要满足隔离条件，有些不同病种的病人不能安置在一起，使得床位的利用率不能达到100％；另一方面，感染内科以药物治疗为主，不像外科那样使用各种器械，随着药品零加价政策的实施，加之结核、艾滋病的药物都是免费提供，令感染科的收益变得极为有限。
Zhao described the infection department's work as a "loss-making business." On the one hand, patients' wards need separate and larger spaces. Some patients cannot be placed together because of isolation conditions. On the other hand, infectious medicine uses medication, unlike surgery.
“打个比方，肠道门诊一天一个医生可能只看10个病人，产生的利润还不够医院给你发工资的。
"For example, a doctor at an intestinal clinic might look at only 10 patients a day and not make enough money to pay you in a hospital.
我出一天肝病门诊，大概有120~150个病人，开一些检查单、化验单稍微还能赚一点，很少有其他产生利润的地方。
I spent a day at a liver clinic with about 120 to 150 patients, writing checklists and laboratory tests for a little more money, and few other places to make a profit.
”赵晖说，医生查个房只有三五块钱。
"Zhao Hui said the doctor had found only three or five dollars a room.
而相比其他科室，感染科必须要用的医用防护用品又是一部分不小的支出，这使得医院没有发展感染科的动力。
Compared with other departments, the infection department must use medical protection supplies is a part of the expenditure, which makes the hospital has no incentive to develop the infection department.
杨友明则表示，来感染科看病的人大多经济条件不好，穷人比较多，有些慢性病比如说肝炎等需要较大的支出，这还导致一些人因病返贫。
Yang said most people coming to the clinic had poor economic conditions, more poor people, and that some chronic diseases, such as hepatitis, required more expenditure, which also caused some people to fall back into poverty.
由于担心无法承受治疗费用，有些人甚至选择不来看病。
Some have even chosen not to go to see a doctor because they fear that they will not be able to afford it.
收益不好的情况不仅发生在综合性医院的感染科，以看肝炎、结核为主的传染病专科医院生存更为艰难。
The poor results are not only in the infection department of the general hospital, but also to see hepatitis, tuberculosis-based infectious disease hospitals more difficult to survive.
据2007年全国卫生财务年报数据；全国148家传染病院中有63.51％出现亏损，在所有传染病医院中，当年结余占总支出比例大于5％的仅12所，减除财政专项结余后，148家传染病医院亏损5.98亿元。
According to data from the 2007 National Health Financial Report, 63.51 per cent of the 148 infectious disease hospitals nationwide were in deficit. Of all the hospitals for infectious diseases, only 12 had a balance of more than 5 per cent of the total expenditure for that year. After deducting the financial surplus, 148 hospitals suffered a loss of 598 million yuan.
设有床位的综合医院感染科与传染病专科医院之间，还存在此消彼长，相互竞争的关系。
There is a trade-off and competition between the Infection Unit of the General Hospital with beds and the Specialized Hospital for Infectious Diseases.
当综合医院感染科发展较好时，传染病专科医院的经营就更为困难。
When the infection department of general hospital develops well, the operation of specialized hospital for infectious diseases is more difficult.
2007年的数据还显示，传染病专科医院经济效益低于同级综合医院，其人员收入水平也低于综合医院。
Data for 2007 also show that specialized hospitals for infectious diseases are less cost-effective than general hospitals at the same level and have lower income levels than general hospitals.
王贵强说，在传染科专科医院，为增加营收，还会出现本来无须住院的病人却被收治入院的情况。
Wang Guiqiang said that in order to increase the income of the specialized hospital, there will be no need to hospitalize patients but admitted to the hospital.
缪晓辉说，在医疗服务被推向市场化后，感染科医生的收入普遍在医院各个科室中处于最低一个层次的水平。
After the medical service was marketed, the income of infected doctors was generally at the lowest level of all the hospital departments, he said.
赵晖称，自己科室的护士2019年有好几个月奖金是每月3000多元，基本工资一两千元，与清洁工的收入相差无几。
According to Zhao Yue, nurses in his department will be paid more than 3,000 yuan per month for several months in 2019.
自己有几个月的奖金是每月6000元，相当于他的大学同学奖金收入的五分之一。
His bonus for a few months is 6,000 yuan a month, which is equivalent to one-fifth of the bonus income of his college classmates.
杨友明工作31年，每一年收入的增长幅度仅维持在5％左右，有时候还会负增长。
Mr. Yang has worked for 31 years, with annual revenue growth of only about 5%, and sometimes negative.
在美国，感染科医生的收入虽然只有心内科、外科医生的 1/3 到 1/4，但平均下来年薪能有15万美元，王贵强认为，中国感染科医生也要保证其一定的底薪，才能使得学科顺畅发展。
The average salary of an infectious doctor in the United States is between one-third and one-quarter that of a cardiologist or surgeon, but the average annual salary can be as much as $150,000.
待遇偏低，感染科的发展受困，加上社会普遍对传染病的排斥等多个因素，使医学院毕业生普遍不愿意到感染科工作。
The low level of treatment, the development of the infection unit and the general social exclusion from infectious diseases have resulted in a general reluctance on the part of medical school graduates to work in infection units.
杨友明所在的科室已经有四五年没有进来新人，科室只有二十来个人的规模，一旦科室人员想要到外地进修学习，就会令日常运转难以维系。
For four or five years, Yang's department has not brought in new staff, only about 20 individuals in the department size, once the staff want to study in the field, it will be difficult to maintain day-to-day operations.
在华山医院，翁心华说，2000年前后，感染科也有一部人因为待遇低选择离开，如今的网红医生、现任华山医院感染科主任张文宏在博士毕业后也曾和翁心华说，想另谋出路。
In Huashan Hospital, Weng Xinhua said that around 2000, some people in the infection department also chose to leave because of low pay. Today's netizen doctor, Zhang Wenhong, now director of infection department at Huashan Hospital, also told Ong Xinhua after graduation that they wanted to find another way out.
作为中国感染学科发展的“重镇”，王贵强所在的北大第一医院感染科的床位数长年来一直没有增长，近期还因楼宇改造，被压缩到一半，仅有30张。
The number of beds in the infection department of Beijing University's No.1 Hospital, where Wang Guiqiang is based, has remained stagnant for years and has recently been cut in half to 30 beds as a result of the renovation.
感染科的人才队伍自2003年SARS后补充了两名新人之后，至少有12年没有再进人，“这从客观上影响了整个学科的梯队建设。
The infection team, which added two new people after SARS in 2003, did not rejoin for at least 12 years, "objectively affecting the construction of echelons of the entire discipline."
”王贵强说。
'said Wang.
“平战结合”与建设“大感染学科”在这次新冠疫情中，传染病专科医院在病患综合救治方面显得力量薄弱。
"Combination of Peace and Construction" and "Major Infection Subject" In this new crown epidemic, the special hospital for infectious diseases is weak in the comprehensive treatment of patients.
据媒体报道，在武汉金银潭医院，ICU只有五位医生，全院的各类氧疗仪器加起来不过20台。
According to media reports, at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, the ICU has only five doctors and the total number of oxygen therapy devices in the hospital is only 20.
一个月时间里，面对涌入的患者，医院四个普通病区被改造成ICU病房，武汉市多家医院及全国多地派出医疗队前去支援。
In the course of a month, four common areas of the hospital were converted into ICU wards in the face of an influx of patients.
在湖北省黄冈市，SARS后建立的黄冈市传染病医院因平时没有足够多的病人，多年后已变成一片废墟，这次疫情到来时，黄冈市对其进行了紧急改造，还提前启用了大别山区域医疗中心。
The Huanggang infectious-disease hospital, built after SARS in Huanggang, Hubei province, was devastated after years of not having enough patients. When the outbreak hit, the city of Huanggang underwent emergency repairs and opened the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center ahead of schedule.
2003年5月，北京小汤山非典定点医院收治的患者正在康复中。
In May 2003, the patients admitted to the SARS designated hospital in Xiaotangshan in Beijing were recovering.
摄影/本刊记者 贾国荣王贵强认为，当下中国感染学科面临的现状是平时没有传染病大流行，感染科不受重视，传染病一来，又显得难以招架。
Photo / print journalist Jia Guorong Wang Guiqiang believes that the current situation of China's infectious subjects is usually no pandemic, infection departments are not attached importance to, infectious diseases, it is difficult to fight.
他分析说，感染学科的发展要“平战结合”，感染科医生除了要会看肝炎、结核病，还要培养诊治各类非传染性感染性疾病的能力。
He said that the development of infectious diseases should be "in peace and harmony" and that infectious doctors should not only be able to see hepatitis and tuberculosis, but also develop the capacity to diagnose and treat all types of non-communicable diseases.
“不明原因发热是重要的一个抓手，可以锻炼感染科医生的基本功”，而肝炎在可预见的将来发病率会进一步下降。
"Unexplained fever is an important gripper that can exercise the basic skills of an infectious doctor," and hepatitis is expected to decline further in the foreseeable future.
同时，感染科医生要介入临床微生物病原诊断和院感防控。
At the same time, the infectionists should be involved in the diagnosis and control of clinical microorganisms.
王贵强将这样三位一体的发展模式，称为“大感染学科”建设。
Wang Guiqiang such a trinity of development model, known as the "big infection subject" construction.
张文宏所在的华山医院参与了上海市首例新冠肺炎确诊病例全基因组测序工作。
The Huashan Hospital of Zhang Wenhong was involved in the genome-wide sequencing of the first confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia in Shanghai.
他认为，感染科与临床微生物科要担负起对病原体的鉴定、对疾病早期识别的使命，守住第一道防线。
He believes that the Infection Department and the Clinical Microbiology Department should assume the identification of pathogens, the early identification of the disease, the first line of defense.
翁心华对《中国新闻周刊》说，对于感染性疾病来说，病原体的诊断尤为重要，一定要在有条件的三级医院建立实验室。
Weng Xinhua told China News Weekly that pathogen diagnosis is particularly important for infectious diseases and that laboratories must be set up in a qualified level III hospital.
在大洋彼岸的美国，感染科医生也扮演着多重角色。
Across the ocean in the United States, infectious doctors also play multiple roles.
王贵强说，平日里美国感染科医生要参与感染性疾病的治疗，参加医院多学科的会诊，指导抗菌药物的使用，同时兼着院感工作。
During the week, U. S. infection doctors will be involved in the treatment of infectious diseases, attend multidisciplinary hospital consultations, guide the use of antimicrobial drugs, and work concurrently with hospital settings, Wang said.
除本职外，感染科医生有的就是微生物专家，还有在公共卫生方面颇有建树者。
In addition to their profession, infectionists are microbiologists, as well as those with a proven record in public health.
重大疫情发生时，感染科医生能够站出来，参与公共卫生政策的决策。
When a major outbreak occurs, infectionists can come forward and participate in public health policy decisions.
将感染病诊治、微生物病原体检测、院感控制结合起来，构建“三位一体”的大感染学科是美国模式的体现。
It is the embodiment of the American model to combine the diagnosis and treatment of infection, the detection of pathogen of microorganism and the control of hospital.
王贵强说，将三个处于较为薄弱地位的学科和科室有机整合，能提高效率，提升感染科医生能力，也能增加科室收入。
'By organically integrating three disciplines and sections that are in a weaker position, we can improve efficiency, the ability of infectionists and the income of departments, 'he said.
当重大疫情来临时，感染科还能和呼吸科、ICU等其他科室联动。
When a major outbreak occurs, the infection unit can also interact with other departments, such as respiration and ICU.
在王贵强看来，这是在综合性医院壮大感染科的必要性所在及发展路径。
In Wang Guiqiang's view, this is the necessity of expanding the infection department in the general hospital and the development path.
翁心华将传染病专科医院比作“消防队”，“消防队员不是每天要救火的，但是需要救火的时候，这批队伍马上可以拉出去用。
"Firefighters don't fight fires every day, but when they need to fight a fire, they can immediately pull it out," Weng said.
”他认为，传染病专科医院如果平时只收治传染病，业务量太小，难以为继。
He argues that specialized hospitals for infectious diseases are too small to sustain if they only treat infectious diseases in normal times.
他建议这类医院可以像综合医院一样，增加一些其他科室，来充实自己的力量。
He suggested that such hospitals could be strengthened by adding other sections, like general hospitals.
他举例说，南通市第三人民医院是当地原来的传染病专科医院，有三百多张收治传染病人的床位。
He gave the example of the Nantong Third People's Hospital, a local specialized hospital for infectious diseases, with more than 300 beds for the treatment of infectious diseases.
但在平时，医院开展外科手术、内科各类疾病诊治的业务，做到“平战结合”。
But in peacetime, the hospital to carry out surgery, internal medicine diagnosis and treatment of various diseases business, to achieve "peaceful combination."
这方面转型的范例还有北京地坛医院。
An example of this transformation is Beijing Ditan Hospital.
2010年，地坛医院确立了“以传染病为特色的三级甲等综合医院”的发展目标，先后建立了儿科、眼科、口腔科、心内科等科室。
In 2010, Ditan Hospital established the development goal of a "Level 3 A General Hospital featuring infectious diseases," and set up departments of pediatrics, ophthalmology, stomatology and cardiology.
王贵强分析说，目前，没有必要再大规模建立新的传染病专科医院，但重要的是，要将现有的传染病专科医院往综合医院方向转变，加强这些医院的综合救治能力。
Wang said there is no need to build new hospitals specializing in infectious diseases on a large scale, but it is important to transform the existing specialized hospitals for infectious diseases into general hospitals and strengthen their comprehensive treatment capabilities.
而传染病专科医院的一大优势在于，拥有符合传染病收治条件的隔离病房。
A major advantage of specialized hospitals for infectious diseases is that they have isolation wards that meet the conditions for admission to infectious diseases.
缪晓辉说，此次疫情过后，国家层面要加大投入，各级综合性医院都应设置一定数量的负压隔离病房，平时负压病房可以不启用。
Mui said that after the outbreak, the national level to increase investment, all levels of general hospitals should set up a certain number of negative pressure isolation wards, usually can not be used negative pressure ward.
床位闲置时，可用来收治其他病人。
When beds are idle, they can be used to treat other patients.
这次疫情中，湖北有超过3000名医护人员感染，其中40％是在医院感染，且大部分是非感染科的医生。
More than 3,000 medical workers in Hubei province were infected during the outbreak, 40 percent of them in hospitals and most of them were non-infected doctors.
在美国，院感工作更倾向由有临床经验的感染科医师来负责，“这是一种专业化管理，需要很强的临床知识储备和实践。
In the United States, hospital care is more often performed by clinically experienced infectionists. "This is a professional management that requires a strong store of clinical knowledge and practice.
”王贵强分析说。
"said Wang.
而中国在SARS之前，院内感染部门的岗位多由护士担纲。
Before SARS, hospital infection departments in China were staffed mostly by nurses.
武汉市红十字会医院院长熊念就透露说，他们医院院感部门就是由有院感知识的护士负责。
Xiong Nian, director of Wuhan Red Cross hospital, revealed that their hospital departments were staffed by nurses with hospital knowledge.
SARS之后，一些医院院感科负责人由感染科主任兼任。
After SARS, the head of the department in some hospitals is also the director of the infection department.
关于大感染科的建设，王贵强还有一个考虑，希望医疗机构内与感染相关的几个科室与疾控部门能有一个好的融合与互动机制，人员相互之间往来，最好是能像美国那样，医院的感染科医生同时是公共卫生专家，对政府的决策有建议建言的渠道与权利。
With regard to the construction of a large infection department, Wang Guiqiang also wants to have a good integration and interaction mechanism between the infection-related departments and disease control departments in medical institutions. It is desirable for people to interact with each other, preferably in the United States, where infectious doctors are also public health specialists with the means and authority to advise on government decisions.
2003年SARS过后，时任原卫生部副部长王陇德曾提过这样的想法，并进行过讨论，王贵强也参加了，但后来因种种原因而不了了之。
After SARS in 2003, then-Vice Minister of Health Wang Longde raised the idea and discussed it, and Wang Guiqiang joined, but for a variety of reasons he later dropped it.
这次疫情后，王贵强希望有关部门能够重新考虑这一提议。
After the outbreak, Wang Guiqiang hopes relevant departments can reconsider this proposal.
今天，新发传染病不断出现，老传染病也出现新问题。
Today, new and emerging infectious diseases are emerging, as are old ones.
最典型的例子，就是多重耐药结核病的出现。
The most typical example is the emergence of multi-drug-resistant TB.
感染医学在人类与微生物的较量中要承担的责任，并没有减轻，而是越来越重。
The burden of infectious medicine in the battle between humans and microorganisms has not diminished, but has grown heavier and heavier.
抗生素与疫苗的胜利曾让一些人认为，我们再也不需要感染病专家了。
The success of antibiotics and vaccines has led some to believe that we no longer need an infectious agent.
“我想，今天没有人会再抱有这样的想法。
"I don't think anybody will feel that way today.
”哈佛大学医学文化学教授大卫·琼斯说，不管是作为全球公共卫生系统的一部分，还是出于对免疫受损人群的照护，感染医学正在蓬勃发展。
David Jones, a professor of medical culture at Harvard University, says infectious medicine is thriving, whether as part of the global public health system or out of care for people with impaired immunity.
它的命运，只会随着2020年的新冠病毒暴发而愈发兴盛。
Its fate will only flourish with the outbreak of the new crown virus in 2020.
值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升揍他可以重磅向全社会公布全国619个楼盘每套房源价格查看房价请上恒房通，78折大优惠，推荐成交赚3.5万元+1%佣金点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
Why don't you tell us the price of each of the 619 houses in the country?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
重建大感染科，一个张文宏救不了这个“不赚钱的科室”。
Reconstruction big infection department, a Zhang Wenhong can not save this "unprofitable department."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "重建大感染科，一个张文宏救不了这个“不赚钱的科室”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "在眼下这场新冠病毒阻击战中，原本应是主力军的医院感染科却显得力不从心";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '揍他可以',。
A: Did he AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
