伊朗150万人有发热症状！意大利破4万、美国加州“封城”...。
1.5 million people in Iran have febrile symptoms! Italy broke 40,000, California "closed the city"...
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
3月19日晚，央视《新闻1+1》连线中国红十字会志愿专家团队专家马学军。
March 19 night, CCTV "news 1 + 1" line China Red Cross volunteer expert team experts Ma Xuejun.
马学军介绍说，在伊朗有一个叫做“网络登记报告”的系统。
Ma said there is a system in Iran called the "Internet Registration Report."
“据了解，伊朗已经排查了2250万人，其中至少150万人有发热症状。
Iran has identified 22.5 million people, at least 1.5 million of whom have fever symptoms.
也就是说，现在的伊朗疫情，我们认为处于一个快速增长期。
In other words, the current Iranian epidemic, we believe, is in a period of rapid growth.
”至于何时能到拐点，马学军认为，现在判断拐点还为时过早。
As for when to reach the inflection point, Ma said it was too early to tell.
“其中一个很重要的原因是，要看防控措施的落实程度，特别是对所有疑似病例的排查，对密切接触者的追踪，还有老百姓的配合问题。
"One important reason for this is the degree of implementation of control measures, particularly the screening of all suspected cases, the tracking of close contacts and the cooperation of the population.
所以这一切都要根据防控措施的落实程度，来做最后的判断。
So all of these measures should be based on the degree of implementation of control measures, to make a final judgement.
”伊朗卫生部：疫情非常严峻 伊朗平均每小时有50人感染根据伊朗卫生部信息，截至当地时间19日中午，伊朗过去24小时内新增1046例新冠肺炎确诊病例，累计确诊病例已达18407例，新增死亡病例149例，总死亡人数1284人。
Iran's Ministry of Health says Iran has confirmed 1,046 new cases of pneumonia in the past 24 hours, bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 18,407, with 149 new deaths and 1284 deaths, according to the Health Ministry.
伊朗政府和国家电视台一连数天呼吁民众不要外出旅行、走亲访友，但据记者观察，这几天伊朗首都德黑兰通往外地的高速公路极其拥堵，很多民众依然坚持出行。
Iran's government and state television have been calling for days for people to stay away from travel and family, but reporters have observed that many people continue to travel in recent days as Tehran's expressway to the outside world is congested.
据伊通社18日报道，伊朗卫生部发言人贾汗普尔表示，现在伊朗疫情非常严峻，医疗物资也很缺乏，一些民众不予合作，导致伊朗平均每小时就有50人感染病毒。
A spokesman for Iran's health ministry, Mohammad Jahanpur, said the country is facing a very serious outbreak of the disease, lack of medical supplies and lack of cooperation from some people, resulting in an average of 50 cases of the virus per hour in Iran, Itoh said.
他呼吁民众要遵守卫生部的建议，尽量避免外出。
He urged people to abide by the health ministry's advice and avoid going out.
伊朗总统鲁哈尼宣布，20日起，所有大型购物中心和市场关闭。
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced the closure of all major shopping centres and markets from 20 onwards.
中国以外累计确诊病例过万例国家已达6个新冠肺炎疫情持续蔓延。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases outside China has reached six new cases of pneumonia in the country has continued to spread.
根据美国约翰斯·霍普金斯大学发布的全球实时疫情数据，截至北京时间20日5时43分的数据，全球确诊病例已超过24万。
According to global real-time outbreak data released by Johns Hopkins University, more than 240,000 cases had been confirmed worldwide as of 5: 43 p.m. Beijing time.
截至北京时间20日早上7时，除中国之外，全球范围内已有6个国家累计新冠肺炎超过1万例。
By 7: 00 a.m. Beijing time, six countries had accumulated more than 10,000 new cases of pneumonia worldwide, excluding China.
其中，意大利41035例，伊朗18407例，西班牙17963例，德国15320例，美国13159例，法国10886例。
Of these, 41,035 were in Italy, 18,407 in Iran, 17,963 in Spain, 15,320 in Germany, 13,159 in the United States and 10,886 in France.
意大利为疫情最严重的欧洲国家，24小时内新增5322例，累计死亡3405例，已成全球死亡病例最多的国家。
Italy is the worst affected country in Europe, with 5,322 new cases and 3,405 cumulative deaths in 24 hours, making it the world's deadliest country.
20日，意大利临时搭建的第一个方舱医院将在克雷莫纳市运营，该方舱医院由15个帐篷组成，能提供60张病床。
On the 20th, Italy's first makeshift cabin hospital, consisting of 15 tents with a capacity to provide 60 beds, will operate in the city of Cremona.
全球多国政要“中招”摩纳哥国家元首确诊　　全球多国政要接连感染新冠肺炎。
Monegasque heads of state have confirmed a wave of new cases of pneumonia in the world's leading countries.
19日，摩纳哥元首阿尔贝二世亲王确诊。
19. Diagnosed by Prince Albert II, Head of State of Monaco.
国际媒体目前普遍认为，现年62岁的阿尔贝二世是首位被新冠病毒感染的国家元首。
The 62-year-old Albert II is now widely regarded in the international press as the first head of state to be infected with the new crown virus.
此前，摩纳哥政府首脑、国务大臣泰尔的新冠病毒检测结果亦呈阳性。
Earlier, the Monegasque Head of Government, Secretary of State tyre also tested positive for the new crown virus.
同一天，负责英国“脱欧”事务的欧盟首席谈判代表巴尼耶新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
On the same day, the European Union's chief negotiator for Brexit tested positive for the virus.
而在美国，仅18日一天，美国就有两名国会议员确诊感染，现在至少14名国会议员在接触患者后自我隔离。
In the United States, where two members of Congress confirmed the infection on the 18th alone, at least 14 members of Congress now isolate themselves after contacting patients.
此前，由于五角大楼出现37例确诊，美国国防部长埃斯珀与他的副手隔离。
S. Secretary of Defense, James Esper, was quarantined from his deputy after 37 cases were diagnosed at the Pentagon.
巴西和加拿大也有多名政要“中招”。
Brazil and Canada also have a number of dignitaries.
18日，巴西参议长阿尔科伦布雷、总统府机构安全办公室部长级主任埃莱诺、矿产和能源部长阿尔布开克均被确诊，3人已居家隔离。
On 18 June, the President of the Brazilian Senate, Alcolembre, the Minister-Director of the Institutional Security Office of the Presidency, Eleno, the Minister of Mines and Energy, Albuquerque, were all diagnosed, and three were separated from their homes.
近期，巴西访美代表团已有十余人被确诊。
Recently, the Brazilian delegation to the United States has been diagnosed more than a dozen people.
此外，由于加拿大总理特鲁多的妻子新冠病毒检测呈阳性，特鲁多也已在自我隔离中。
In addition, Trudeau is in self-imposed isolation after being tested positive for the new crown virus by Prime Minister Trudeau's wife.
西班牙首相桑切斯的妻子贝戈尼娅也被确诊。
The wife of Spanish Prime Minister Jose Antonio Sanchez has also been diagnosed.
此前，因西班牙社会平等部部长确诊，与其接触过的国王王后均接受新冠病毒检测，政府官员全体接受检测。
Previously, all government officials had been tested for the new crown virus following a diagnosis by the Spanish Minister for Social Equality of the Queen of Kings with whom she had been in contact.
而在伊朗，出现症状或已被确诊的政要人数较多。
In Iran, the number of politicians with symptoms or who have been diagnosed is high.
确诊政要包括伊朗第一副总统贾汉吉、国家灾害管理组织负责人以及多名议会议员。
The confirmed dignitaries included First Vice-President Jahangir, the head of the National Disaster Management Organization and a number of members of parliament.
美国加州州长宣布全州封城令据央视，美国加州州长加文·纽瑟姆19日晚宣布全州“封城令”，要求居民待在家中，以防新冠疫情蔓延。
California Gov. Gavin Neutham on Tuesday night announced a state-wide "closure order" to keep residents at home in case a new cap epidemic spreads, CCTV reported.
此前，包括洛杉矶等多个城市已要求居民不要离开居所，除非是必要岗位或必须外出采购。
Previously, several cities, including Los Angeles, had asked residents not to leave their homes, except for essential jobs or when they had to go shopping.
加州是美国人口最多的州，也是在美国GDP总量排名第一的州。
California is the most populous state in the United States and the largest in the United States overall GDP.
据美媒报道，纽瑟姆在给美国总统特朗普的一封信中表示，估计该州未来8周将有2550万人感染新冠病毒，相当于该州人口的56%。
In a letter to US President Trump, Newsum estimated that 25.5 million people, or 56% of the state's population, will be infected with the Crown virus in the next eight weeks, according to the US media.
纽瑟姆在周三发出的这封信中表示：“过去24小时，我们新增了126例COVID-19病例，较此前一日增加21%。
"In the past 24 hours, we have had 126 new COVID-19 cases, an increase of 21 per cent over the previous day," he said in the letter.
在我们州的某些地方，病例数量每四天翻一番。
In some parts of our state, the number of cases doubles every four days.
”纽瑟姆要求特朗普将美军“仁慈号”（USNS Mercy）医院船派往洛杉矶港口，以帮助应对预期中的病例激增。
Mr Neutham has asked Trump to send the USNS Mercy hospital ship to Los Angeles to help cope with the expected surge in cases.
纽瑟姆表示，这种病毒正在全州23个县的社区传播。
Neutham says the virus is spreading to communities in 23 counties across the state.
目前加州是美国疫情第三大重灾区，仅次于华盛顿州和纽约州。
California is now the third most affected area in the United States, after Washington and New York.
为抑制疫情，美国国务院19日将全球旅游警示提升至最高级第4级，呼吁民众避免出国。
To contain the epidemic, the United States State Department on the 19th of the global tourism alert to the highest level 4, calling on people to avoid leaving the country.
美媒称，国务院此举似乎是前所未有的，系该部门有史以来发出的最严重的此类警告。
The move by the State Department appears unprecedented and is the most serious warning of its kind in the department's history, media said.
截至19日，纽约州已确诊4152例，至少29例死亡病例。
As of June 19, 4,152 cases and at least 29 deaths had been confirmed in New York state.
过去一周，纽约州确诊病例激增逾11倍，总数跃居全美首位。
The number of confirmed cases in New York has jumped more than 11-fold over the past week, making it the largest in the country.
其中，纽约市已有2469人确诊。
Of these, 2,469 were diagnosed in New York City.
纽约州长库默强调，确诊病例激增主因为纽约州加快病毒检测脚步。
New York State Governor Timothy Kumer stressed the surge in confirmed cases is due to increased testing in New York.
综合央视新闻、环球时报、新浪财经、人民日报、中国新闻网等推荐阅读点击大图|为什么美国要“直升机撒钱”？点击大图|钟南山：对输入病例要高度警惕，疫情传播第一波传染性很强！。
CCTV News, Global Times, Sina Finance, People's Daily, China News, et cetera, et cetera Why does the United States want "helicopter drops"? Click AT & # 160; & # 45; Zhong Nan Shan: Be vigilant about incoming cases, and the first wave of transmission is highly contagious.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
伊朗150万人有发热症状！意大利破4万、美国加州“封城”...。
1.5 million people in Iran have febrile symptoms! Italy broke 40,000, California "closed the city"...
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "伊朗150万人有发热症状！意大利破4万、美国加州“封城”...";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Iran's 1.5 million people with fever! Italy broke 40,000, and California's "No City"... & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '为什么美国要“直升机撒钱”？',。
& quot; Why did the US want "helicopter drops"? & nbsp; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '钟南山：对输入病例要高度警惕，疫情传播第一波传染性很强！',。
Zhong Nan Shan: Be vigilant about imported cases. The first wave of infection was AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
