我在海外 | 病毒逼近，冷静面对——三个英国家庭的抗疫准备。
I was at home with RV approaching, calmly confronting - three British families prepared for the epidemic.
亚宁。
Yannin.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
我采访的三个女人和他们的家庭成员，都冷静平和。
The three women I interviewed and their family members were calm and peaceful.
除了病毒感染的风险，这种前所未遇的几乎全民的收入减少和停顿，对未来不确定的同时，还要应对现实生计和担心财务状况，才是最让人揪心的。
In addition to the risk of infection, this unprecedented decline and stagnation of income for almost the entire population is the most worrying source of uncertainty about the future, coupled with the need to address real livelihoods and financial concerns.
文、图 | 亚　宁我是一个传统的写作者，更喜欢文字的感情和力量。
I am a traditional writer who prefers the feeling and power of words.
我本打算顺应现在的信息获取潮流，录一期关于英国普通民众的抗疫状态，他们的态度和准备，他们正在经历的心理和现实生活的变化。
I intend to follow the current trend of information acquisition by recording an issue about the state of the epidemic among ordinary people in the UK, their attitudes and preparedness, the psychological and real-life changes they are experiencing.
无奈当镜头对准我那些总是礼貌周到、热情饱满地谈话的朋友、同事、社区邻居时，他们变得更加拘谨甚至沉默。
But when the camera was aimed at my friends, colleagues, and neighbors who were always polite and thoughtful and talked enthusiastically, they became more reserved and even silent.
我问他们是不是可以坐下来随便聊聊我们共同经历的不幸，我们的心情和我们怎么去面对时，似乎每个人都敞开了心扉。
I asked them if they could sit down and talk about our shared misfortunes, how we felt and how we dealt with it, as if everyone had opened their hearts.
我访问了很多人，这里记录了三个本土英国主妇如何迅速调整自己和整个家庭，应对步步紧逼的病毒侵袭。
I interviewed people who recorded how three homegrown British housewives quickly adjusted themselves and their families to the onslaught of the virus.
我们居住的小城是伦敦大区周边众多的历史比较久远的城镇之一。
The town we live in is one of the many older towns around the London metropolitan area.
虽然人口没有伦敦那样密集，但这里依然是一个英式传统与新移民文化的汇聚点。
Although not as densely populated as London, it is still a meeting place between British tradition and the new immigrant culture.
小城离开伦敦中心大约30多英里，隶属萨里郡，与周边的汉普郡与伯克郡以及再远一点的肯特郡等属于传统的家族势力和经济的发源地。
The town, about 30 miles from central London, is part of Surrey and home to traditional family power and economy such as Hampshire and Berkshire and, further afield, Kent.
很多上班族在周边的这些区域和伦敦之间通勤。
Many commuters commute between these neighborhoods and London.
众多的政要和富庶阶层的祖屋房产老钱都沉浸在此。
Many politicians and wealthy people are immersed in the ancestral home money.
Karen，辅导老师三个孩子的母亲。
Karen, tutor for the mother of three children.
伴侣Mark在索尼公司伦敦分部担任项目主管。
Partner Mark works as project manager at Sony London.
从这周开始在家办公。
Work from home from this week.
三个六到十三岁的孩子今天还在上学。
Three six to thirteen-year-olds are still in school today.
我本来打算保持政府倡导的防疫新策，即保持两米的社交距离进行短暂的采访。
I had intended to maintain the government's policy of maintaining a social distance of two meters for brief interviews.
我到达Karen和Mark家的时候是早上，天气阴沉，下着典型的英国阴雨。
I arrived at Karen and Mark's in the morning. The weather was gloomy. It was a typical rainy day in England.
Karen问我：“你没问题？很健康吧？我们也很好，很健康。
Karen asked me, "Are you OK? Are you healthy? We're fine, too. We're healthy.
进来吧！“我和Karen在她家。
Come in! Karen and I are at her house.
3月19日早晨Mark已经在家开始办公，Karen刚送完孩子回家，正在整理房间。
Mark was already working from home on the morning of March 19th. Karen had just returned home from work and was fixing up her room.
他们住的房子是80年代建造的典型的独栋带花园的中型房子，对于一家5口，空间刚好。
They live in a typical 80s-built, single, medium-sized house with a garden. For a family of five, the space is just right.
我们聊了很多关于孩子们的变化，中间不免回到最现实的担忧，必须面对的病毒风险。
We talked a lot about the changes in our children, which inevitably led to the most realistic fears we had to face about the virus risks.
Karen:我最担心的是我妈妈，她70多岁了，患有糖尿病，现在一个人居住。
Karen: What worries me most is my mother, who is in her 70s, has diabetes and lives alone.
我已经帮她买好了糖尿病人所需的特殊食品。
I've helped her buy the special foods she needs for diabetics.
我今天去了超市，惶恐抢购还在继续，但是还没有失控。
Today, I went to the supermarket, panic buying continued, but not out of control.
我找了经理打听过了未来的供应情况，他未置可否。
I asked the manager for information about the future supply, but he wouldn't budge.
其实在超市的时候，看到人们突然这样购物（Panic Buying 惶恐抢购），我忽然想到了我的孩子们挑剔的饮食习惯，我在想，我们是不是一个贪婪的民族？我们被惯坏了，我们的成年人很多都像大小孩一样。
When I was at the supermarket and saw people snapping up Panic Buying, it occurred to me that my children were picky about their eating habits, and I wondered if we were a greedy people? We were spoiled and many of our adults were big kids.
而我们的小孩不懂珍惜。
And our children don't know how to treasure it.
Yaning:你是指平常时期我们不用担忧医疗和教育，一切都还算平安幸福，现在突然面临这样的紧急状况，很多人不知所措么？Karen: 是的。
You mean in normal times when we don't have to worry about medical care or education, when everything is going well and we're happy, then suddenly there are a lot of people who don't know what to doKaren: Yes.
也不全是。
Not all of them.
你想想看，我们知道病毒传播的这件事已经很久了，但我们很少有人去提前做准备，无论是物质上的还是精神上的。
You know, we've known about the spread of the virus for a long time, but very few of us get ready in advance, either physically or mentally.
所以我们才有今天的慌乱。
That's why we're in such a panic today.
我们贪婪，是因为我们平常觉得我们需要很多东西，现在紧急情况发生了，我们更觉得我们需要占据更多的东西，所以才会慌乱。
We are greedy because we usually feel that we need a lot of things. Now that the emergency has happened, we feel we need to occupy more things, so we will panic.
我向你保证，很多家庭并不会像我这样管束比较严格，已经开始享用备用的东西了。
I assure you that many families are not as strict as I am, and are beginning to enjoy what is left.
到最后还嫌不够。
In the end it was not enough.
我们现在要隔离，很多人又嫌麻烦。
We're quaranting. a lot of people are in trouble.
我们又寄希望于政府给出更多优惠政策，来扶助大家渡过难关。
We are counting on the government to give more preferential policies to help you tide over the difficulties.
我告诉你，难关还没来临呢。
I'm telling you, it's not over yet.
我不太担心孩子们会被病毒感染Yaning :你担心吗？最担心的是不是孩子的安全？你觉得我们能挺过来吗？Karen: 我担心孩子。
I'm not worried about the children getting infected Are you worried? Is it the safety of the children that worries most? Do you think we can make it through? Karen: I'm worried about the baby.
但是他们是那么强壮的生命，只要我们小心防护，我觉得没有那么可怕。
But they are so strong life, as long as we are careful to guard, I do not feel so terrible.
他们应该是安全的。
They should be safe.
我现在和Mark在讨论如何管控他们，分配他们在家的时间和学习安排。
Mark and I are talking about how to manage them, allocate their time and study schedules at home.
毕竟三个孩子会让人有时候焦头烂额甚至失控。
After all, having three children can be stressful and sometimes get out of hand.
但我们已经开始调整日程安排，争取让他们在家技能学习，又能和我们轻松相处。
But we have begun to adjust our schedules so that they can learn their skills at home and get along with us easily.
Karen:谁知道这场灾难会持续多久。
Karen: Who knows how long this disaster will last.
很多家庭会受到严重影响。
Many families will be severely affected.
我知道政府已经出台很多帮助大家渡过难关的经济和财务救助措施，比如延缓支付房贷和租金。
I know the government has put in place a number of financial and financial measures to help people tide over the difficulties, such as delaying payments on mortgages and rents.
尽一切可能要保全自己和家庭。
Do everything you can to save yourself and your family.
我想过最坏的可能是我失去我的母亲，但是我不能失去Mark。
I thought the worst would be if I lost my mother, but I couldn't lose Mark.
他是家里的主要经济力量。
He is the chief economic force in the family.
我更多精力放在抚养孩子上面。
I focus more on raising my children.
这是一个家庭的配合和分工。
This is a family collaboration and division of labour.
我们现在过得很好，但是如果没有他的工资，我将还不起房贷，是个带着三个孩子的落魄母亲。
We're doing fine, but without his salary, I can't pay my mortgage, a poor mother with three children.
所以我们一定要坚信能挺过去。
So we have to be sure we can make it.
也许只是时间问题。
Maybe it's just a matter of time.
在我们聊天的间歇，Karen 小女儿的音乐老师打来电话，确认小孩是不是到她那里上课。
While we were talking, Karen's younger daughter's music teacher called to make sure the child was in her classroom.
Karen建议老太太取消课程，因为小孩接近老年人会给老年人带来更多的感染风险。
Karen recommends that older women cancel classes because getting close to older children puts older people at increased risk of infection.
老太太的英式幽默让我们哈哈大笑。
The old lady's British humour made us laugh.
她说：哦，他们说的老年人是70岁以上的， 我今年69。
Oh, they say the old people are over seventy, I'm 69 this year, she said.
我小心病毒，但我并不怕它。
I'm careful with the virus, but I'm not afraid of it.
Karen怎么看“群体免疫力”策略？Yaning：很多人尤其是媒体前几天都在挑剔英国政府提出的“群体免疫力”的策略是放任不管，让一部分人感染。
The British government's "group immunity" strategy has been criticised by many, especially the media, the last few days for letting go and infecting some people.
你相信么？你怎么看这个政策？Karen:政府也许可以早一点采取更严厉的行动。
Do you believe it? What do you think of this policy? Karen: Maybe the government could have taken tougher action earlier.
但我相信他们需要时间。
But I believe they need time.
我觉得政府做不出故意牺牲人的生命的决策。
I don't think the government can make the decision to deliberately sacrifice human life.
我只是认为他们需要时间准备。
I just think they need time to prepare.
他们需要让大家逐渐接受病毒已经来到的事实。
They need to instil acceptance of the fact that the virus has come.
我说过我们很多人习惯了享用眼前的一切，想得到更多，最好是不需要太多努力。
I have said that many of us are used to enjoying everything in front of us and want more, preferably without much effort.
现在真正的考验来了，我们还是不做准备，希望有人帮我们安排。
Now the real test has come, we still do not prepare, hope that someone will help us arrange.
也许政府可以早一点采取现在的行动，但这是一个国家，得慢慢来。
Perhaps the government could have taken action earlier, but this is a country, and it will take time.
我更担心病毒之后国家和人民需要多少年才能从这次打击和影响中恢复。
I am more concerned about how many years it will take countries and people to recover from the impact of the virus.
我和Karen 还谈了很多现实的困难和孩子的教育，交流了在封闭隔离期间如何管理小孩，让他们快乐宅家。
Karen and I also talked about practical difficulties and kids' education, how to manage kids and make them happy homesteads in closed isolation.
她看了看花园说，至少他们有足够的户外空间。
She looked at the garden and said that at least they had enough outdoor space.
我们的最后的话题不知怎么转移到了在非常时期要做最坏的打算。
Our last topic somehow shifted to preparing for the worst in an emergency.
她问我有没有立遗嘱，我说前几天立了个口头的。
She asked me if I had a will, and I said I made an oral speech the other day.
她说不行，你得书面化。
She said no. You have to write.
你得让别人知道两个大人都不在的时候孩子将来跟谁生活。
You have to let people know who the baby is going to live with in the absence of both adults.
她有些地意得说：我几年前就立好了。
She said in a half-hearted voice: I made it years ago.
Mark这时从他的电脑上下了班，过来问中午吃什么。
Mark got off his computer and asked what he was eating for lunch.
Karen对我做鬼脸说：“亲爱的，我觉得隔离并不可怕，可怕的是你跟你本来就没有太多话说的伴侣一起隔离，再加上三个疯狂的孩子！“离开Karen 家，外面还下着细雨，街上的车辆和行人比昨天更少。
Karen grimaced at me and said, "Honey, I don't think isolation is terrible. The scary part is that you're separated from your spouse who doesn't have much to say, plus three crazy kids!" Leaving Karen's house with a drizzle outside and fewer cars and pedestrians on the street than yesterday.
自从昨天6点BBC新闻首相讲话之后，更多的人减少外出。
More people have gone out since the BBC News Prime Minister spoke at 6 yesterday.
不多的行人中也有老年人，街边一个房子正在修缮，工人们放着音乐。
Old people were among the few pedestrians, a house was being repaired and the workers were playing music.
恍惚间，感觉是圣诞前后空旷的街。
Trance, the feeling is the open street around Christmas.
如果没有病毒逼近，生活还是很美好。
Life would have been better without the virus looming.
Sheila，心理治疗师两个孩子的母亲。
Sheila, a psychotherapist and mother of two children.
先生Sammy是电气工程师，本周开始在家办公。
Mr. Sammy is an electrical engineer and has been working from home since this week.
我和Sheila是在孩子们的学校接送中熟悉起来的。
Sheila and I got to know each other from school.
她严谨稳重，言谈举止得体大方，对孩子要求非常严格。
She was strict with her children; she spoke with propriety and dignity.
我们的儿女在班上一直处在积极的竞争状态。
Our children have always been in active competition in the class.
我们两个家庭一直维护和发展着这种被我们称为“Positive Competition/良性竞争”的关系，大人之间也互相鼓励和督促自己和孩子。
Both of our families maintain and develop what we call a "positive competition," in which adults encourage and urge themselves and their children.
今年我们两个孩子分别拿到了本地区最好的私立学校男校和女校的高额奖学金。
This year, our two children received high scholarships for boys' and girls' schools in the region's best private schools.
我和Sheila在一起。
I was with Sheila.
3月19日傍晚Sheila和Sammy最初来自肯尼亚，在英国大学毕业后建立家庭。
Sheila and Sammy originally came from Kenya in the evening of 19 March and started their families after graduating from British universities.
他们所住的房子是普通中产家庭的典型联排带花园的两层房子。
The house they live in is a typical middle-class two-story house with a garden.
也许是由于本来就有心理疾患的人对当前不确定的形势更加敏感，Sheila觉得自己的服务咨询对象预约得更加密集。
Perhaps because people with pre-existing psychological problems are more sensitive to the current uncertainty, Sheila feels her clients are booking more intensively.
她所兼职的公司也是围绕NHS（英国国民医疗服务机构）服务的一部分。
Her part-time company is also part of a service around the NHS.
虽然公司已经响应政府号召将很多预约转到线上，以节约医护资源，防止感染机会保护医护人员，但是Sheila还是决定完成剩下的几个咨询课程。
Sheila has decided to complete the remaining counselling sessions, although the company has responded to the government's call to switch many appointments online to save health care resources and protect health care workers from infection.
她觉得当面咨询对她的客户来说比任何时候都重要。
She felt that face-to-face consultations were more important to her clients than ever.
我对Sheila 的采访因为约不到共同有空的时间，所以我发信息问了她一些问题。
My interview with Sheila was not scheduled for our free time, so I sent her a message asking her some questions.
我说我们中国人刚刚经历了隔离之困和生命安全之忧，人们在刚刚开始恢复正常生活，而有些人的伤痛和损失也许永远都无法抹平和扭转。
I say that we Chinese have just experienced isolation and fear for their lives, that people are just beginning to return to normal, and that the pain and loss of some may never be able to erase and reverse.
看到现在英国这种情形，中国无数人都在为英国人捏一把汗。
Millions of Chinese are pinching their hands for the British when they see Britain as it is now.
至少我的家人朋友都很担忧，我也很担心。
At least my family and friends are worried, and so am I.
以下是Sheila 的回复。
Sheila's response follows.
“我很担忧。
"I'm worried.
除了病毒，还有各类服务会受到影响，物资会紧缺。
In addition to viruses, services will be affected and supplies will be in short supply.
但是，我是主要的心理辅导工作者，我一定得乐观积极，才能帮助那些处于劣势需要帮助的人。
But I am a leading counselor, and I must be optimistic to help those who are disadvantaged and in need.
“关于“群体免疫力“，Sheila似乎并不感兴趣，或者了解不多。
"Sheila does not seem to be interested or knowledgeable about" group immunity. "
这与我们中国的全民讨论多有不同。
This is very different from the public discussion in China.
“我根据政府的健康建议做好所能做的防护，但是我觉得更多的是要多注意卫生，注意细节和训练自己有防护意识。
"I do what the government says is safe, but I think it's more important to pay more attention to hygiene, to pay attention to detail and to train myself to be protective.
我希望我做得足够好，能够保护好自己。
I hope I'm good enough to protect myself.
“Sheila和女儿 Mary Jayne。
"Sheila and daughter Mary Jayne.
3月19日傍晚“关于孩子在家的问题，我希望继续按照上学的作息制度，每天9点到3点之间学习，然后玩游戏。
On the subject of children staying at home, I would like to continue with the school day and study between 9am and 3pm and then play games.
有很多可以全家一起玩。
There's plenty for the family to play with.
我们可以玩大富翁、围棋和词汇量训练游戏。
We can play Monopoly, Go and Vocabulary Training.
”英国政府昨天重申了社区精神的重要性。
The British government yesterday reaffirmed the importance of community spirit.
虽然社区文化在英国已经非常淡薄，即使传统的小城镇，人们因为工作和生活的压力，多种移民文化的影响，社区互助和邻里关照并不普遍。
Although community culture is already very weak in Britain, even in traditional small towns, community support and neighbourhood care are not common because of the pressures of work and life and the influence of diverse immigrant cultures.
在抗击疫情的时候，重新推崇社区精神，一方面是可能对独居的老人有帮助，另外的解读就是呼吁大家在恐慌购物的时候，为社区行动和时间不便的人着想，不要因为个人担忧，肆意清空货架，导致邻里因为买不到东西更加恐慌。
In the fight against the epidemic, a renewed sense of community is likely to help the elderly who live alone. Another reading is a call to panic shopping, to think about community action and people with limited time, and not to empty shelves out of fear because of personal worries, making neighborhoods more fearful of being unable to buy.
“说到准备隔离用的食物，我只是买了够两天食用的额外食物。
"Speaking of the foods to be isolated, I just bought enough extra food for two days.
我会随时调整量力而行。
I will adjust my ability at any time.
”英国从上到下关于抗击疫情，讨论最多的，除了预防感染的策略，就是现实的国计民生问题。
Britain's top-down strategy to combat the epidemic, along with the prevention of infection, is a matter of national livelihood.
最近两天的首相发言财政部长都紧随其后，不断发布和调整对经济的救援措施，对受病毒影响的千万个家庭的生存困境做出计划。
The two-day speech by the prime minister, followed closely by finance ministers, has issued and adjusted relief measures for the economy, planning for the survival of tens of millions of families affected by the virus.
随着更多商业场所关闭，政府建议在家自我保护隔离，很多企业和那些自由职业者和个体经营者都几乎迅速清楚地看清了自己的困境。
As more businesses close, the government recommends self-preservation and segregation at home, and many businesses, along with freelancers and self-employed people, see their plight almost quickly and clearly.
除了担心可能的生命和健康危险，更多的工薪阶层在讨论和焦虑疫情期间和过后的生活所面临的实际问题。
In addition to the fear of possible risks to life and health, more wage earners are discussing and worrying about the practical problems facing their lives during and after the outbreak.
收入减少意味着房贷和房租支付困难，甚至温饱都成问题。
Declining incomes mean that mortgage and rent payments are difficult, and even subsistence is problematic.
英国政府迅速出台了很多救援措施，除了政府投资超过330亿英镑帮助企业和民众渡过难关之外，民众也开始调整自己自救。
The British government quickly put in place a number of rescue measures, and as the government invested more than 33 billion pounds to help businesses and people tide over difficulties, people began to adjust to help themselves.
“我其实非常担心我们的家庭财务状况。
"I'm really worried about our family finances.
我将削减所有不必要的支出，比如停开暖气，节约用电等。
I will cut all the unnecessary expenses, such as cutting off the heating, saving electricity and so on.
我只希望这一切很快过去。
I just hope it all goes away soon.
”“如果真的到了那一步，我需要寻求帮助，我将向所有可能给我帮助的家人、朋友、工作单位、学校甚至我儿子的足球训练队的队友家庭。
"" If that is the case, I need help and I will go to all the families, friends, work units, schools and even the families of my son's football training team that I might be able to help.
”和Sheila短信交谈结束后的下午，她因为单位工作环境人多风险大，提前下班回到家继续网上工作，她邀请我到她家再聊。
The afternoon after the chat with Sheila, she returned home early from work because of the high risk of many people at work, and she invited me to her house to chat.
我们在这里的隔离并没有到人人自危的程度，只要大家互相确认目前健康，没有症状，大家还是继续正常来往。
Our isolation here has not reached the point where everyone is in danger, and as long as everyone confirms that they are healthy and asymptomatic, we continue to interact normally.
握手拥抱取消了，但是两米的社交距离，好像并没有刻意保持。
The handshake hugs were canceled, but the social distance between the two meters did not seem to have been maintained.
Lucy ，童装店主，同时帮助先生Alex经营清洁服务公司夫妻俩有自己的房子，都是自负盈亏的小企业经营者。
Lucy, the children's wear shop owner, and Alex, a cleaning services husband and wife have their own house, are small self-financing business operators.
Lucy的家族庞大，关系紧密。
Lucy's family is large and close-knit.
Lucy，她最典型的笑容。
Lucy, her most typical smile.
3月18日Lucy发图Lucy的家庭世世代代在汉普敦郡居住，家族多数都是手工艺人或者经营小生意。
March 18 Lucy's family has lived in Hampton County for generations, most of them craftsmen or small businesses.
57岁的她精力旺盛，自信冷静。
At 57, she was energetic, confident and calm.
她82岁的健朗母亲，也是家族活力的证明，在Lucy需要的时候，依然能按时找到仓储的货品送去她的经营点。
Her 82-year-old mother, also a testament to the vitality of the family, was able to find and deliver goods to her operations on time when Lucy needed them.
Lucy有四个儿女，是6个孩子的祖母。
Lucy, who has four children, is the grandmother of six.
这次我没能见面采访到Lucy，但是我们在电话上聊了很久，互相鼓励，答应等疫情过后， 我们延续每周见面聊天的传统。
I couldn't meet Lucy this time, but we talked on the phone for a long time, encouraging each other and promising to continue our weekly chat after the outbreak.
坚强冷静如Lucy，也开始担心她82岁的母亲。
Strong and calm as Lucy, also began to worry about her 82-year-old mother.
她决定搬去和母亲一起隔离。
She decided to move in with her mother.
这也是为什么我们最终放弃见面的原因。
That's why we finally gave up seeing each other.
她给我发来几张图片，表示她现在的心情和状态。
She sent me some pictures of her mood and state.
她反复对我说：“我们不必惊慌。
She kept saying to me, "We don't have to panic.
生活的诸多难处我们都经历过了，这个也会过去。
We've been through a lot of difficult things in life, and this one will pass.
“ 她自我表扬道：”我这么一个坚强顽固的女人，就算是感染了，我也能活着出来。
"She praised herself:" I am such a strong and stubborn woman, even if infected, I can come out alive.
等我有了新的经历，你们都别嫉妒我。
When I have a new experience, don't be jealous of me.
“我回应着她的幽默说：“我想看看你是否能破最快治愈纪录。
"I responded to her humor and said," I want to see if you can break the fastest healing record.
别在里面太久，NHS负担很重。
Don't stay in there too long. The NHS is overburdened.
” 她咯咯长笑之后，给我发了一张她在脸书上分享的照片。
"She giggled and sent me a picture she shared on Facebook.
网上赞赏NHS员工努力工作的励志图片。
Online praise for NHS staff hard work motivational pictures.
3月18日Lucy发图非常感人和励志。
March 18 Lucy Gotta very moving and inspirational.
英国也有正能量。
Britain has positive energy, too.
Lucy多年拼搏，她和Alex的四个儿女都已经成家立业，他们夫妇俩自己没有房贷，还有一定积蓄。
After years of struggling, she and Alex have four children who have a family and a family. They don't own a mortgage and have some savings.
除了老母亲，她并没有对因为隔离可能产生的财务困难和孩子教育有所顾虑。
With the exception of the old mother, she had no qualms about the financial difficulties and education that might result from segregation.
她想的更多的是到底整个国家的经济和人们的生活，会有多少年才恢复缓和。
What she was thinking was more about how long it would take for the economy of the country and the lives of the people to recover.
Lucy和她的丈夫子女。
Lucy and her husband's children.
3月18日Lucy发图“我觉得我要用这个时间好好想想还可以做别的什么。
March 18 Lucy Gotta: "I think I need to take this time to think about what else I can do.
未来几年我们将都不会在衣服首饰上花什么钱了。
We're not going to spend any money on clothes or jewelry for the next few years.
很多人很多家庭将要靠节衣缩食来弥补这次病毒蔓延对家庭经济的打击。
Many families will have to tighten their belts to make up for the impact of the virus on the family economy.
”她说她坚信，只要小孩子防护得好，是不会有风险的。
"She said she firmly believed there was no risk as long as children were well protected.
Lucy和她的六个孙子孙女。
Lucy and her six grandchildren.
3月18日Lucy发图在我们结束谈话的时候，她像喊口号一样在电话那头对我说：“相信我，会好的。
March 18 Lucy sent me a picture at the end of our conversation, shouting slogans over the phone and saying, "Trust me, it will be all right.
我们很快就约吃中饭。
We'll be having lunch soon.
”在英国政府连续两天颁布建议居家隔离和保护老人，鼓励在家办公和将在明日关闭全部学校之后，今天我们附近各个小城镇街上的车辆和行人迅速减少。
The number of cars and pedestrians in the streets of small towns around us has dwindled today after two days of separate homes and protection for the elderly, encouragement to work from home and the closure of all schools tomorrow.
咖啡店里还坐着顾客，但是商场超市几乎没有人了。
There were still customers in the coffee shop, but the mall was almost empty.
我采访的三个女人和他们的家庭成员，都冷静平和。
The three women I interviewed and their family members were calm and peaceful.
除了病毒感染的风险，这种前所未遇的几乎全民的收入减少和停顿，对未来不确定的同时，还要应对现实生计和担心财务状况，才是最让人揪心的。
In addition to the risk of infection, this unprecedented decline and stagnation of income for almost the entire population is the most worrying source of uncertainty about the future, coupled with the need to address real livelihoods and financial concerns.
政府每天都在发布新的救援措施以稳定人民情绪。
The government is issuing new relief measures every day to calm people's mood.
今天英女王向全民发布信息，敦促大家“Work as one/万众一心”，英国首相也向国家和人民誓言要“ Turn the tide/力挽狂澜，扭转潮头”。
The British Prime Minister vowed to "turn the tide by turning the tide" by delivering a message to the nation today urging everyone to "work as one.
英国女王今日发文，敦促全国万众一心抗疫在危难时期，人们越能迸发出勇气和力量。
In a message today, the Queen urged the nation to stand united against the disease. The more courage and strength people can muster in times of crisis.
这个我们亿万中国人感同身受，千万个在武汉奋斗抗疫的医护团队和各方面的工作者志愿者也证明了这一点。
The hundreds of millions of Chinese feel the same way, as evidenced by the tens of millions of medical and health workers who have fought against the disease in Wuhan and volunteers from all walks of life.
现在的英国，也是需要全民一心，需要政府和人民同舟共济。
Britain, too, needs to be one people, the government and the people to work together.
一切都终将过去，无论结局如何，需要我们现在积极去面对。
Everything will pass, no matter what the outcome, we need to face it now.
·专访｜坂本龙一：人类是稍微偏离自然轨道的、有点坏掉的猴子·不顾世卫组织纠正，“中国病毒”成特朗普口头禅，有阴谋！·火线｜帮新冠肺炎重病人“熬病程”——专访国家卫健委专家组成员管向东教授新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
Exclusive interview: Humans are slightly off-track, a bit bad monkey! Despite WHO corrections, the "Chinese virus" has become Trump's patchwork, intrigue!!!!!!!!!
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在海外 | 病毒逼近，冷静面对——三个英国家庭的抗疫准备。
I was at home with RV approaching, calmly confronting - three British families prepared for the epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我在海外 | 病毒逼近，冷静面对——三个英国家庭的抗疫准备";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I was with RV at overseas & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
var msg_desc = "在危难时期，人们越能迸发出勇气和力量。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in times of crisis, the more courage and strength people can muster.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '专访｜坂本龙一：人类是稍微偏离自然轨道的、有点坏掉的猴子',。
Yesterday's visit was less than natural, and a bit of a wreck at least once.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '不顾世卫组织纠正，“中国病毒”成特朗普口头禅，有阴谋！',。
Rhetoric: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '荣归！上海援鄂医疗队首批英雄回沪，李强亲赴机场迎接',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '火线｜帮新冠肺炎重病人“熬病程”——专访国家卫健委专家组成员管向东教授',。
Yesterday's visit to Britain's health care company has been less than a year since the accident.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
