我在海外 | 疫情下, 纽约的“社交疏远”是他们生命中不能承受之重/* declared */。
At the time of my overseas service, New York's "social alienation" was an unbearable weight in their lives.
我在海外 | 疫情下, 纽约的“社交疏远”是他们生命中不能承受之重<br>。
At the time of my overseas service, New York's "social alienation" was at least as overwhelming as Ryder & gt; s life.
| title       = 我在海外   疫情下, 纽约的“社交疏远”是他们生命中不能承受之重。
My overseas experience with New York's social alienation has been too much for them to bear in their lives.
我在海外 | 疫情下, 纽约的“社交疏远”是他们生命中不能承受之重。
At the time of my overseas service, New York's "social alienation" was an unbearable weight in their lives.
薛敏。
Simon Xue.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
在社交疏远的两端，我和格林的差异，不会因为政府的举措和社会的救助而消失。
At both ends of the social divide, my differences with Greene will not disappear with the government's actions and social assistance.
但当这场疫情把两个原本毫不相干的人划在了同一命运共同体内，或多或少，我们有了共担风险的交集。
But when the epidemic pushes two otherwise unrelated people into the same common destiny, we have, more or less, a convergence of shared risks.
如此，应相互守望、共克时艰。
In this way, we should keep watch over each other.
文| 薛　敏社交疏远（”social distancing”），当下已成为渗透美国社会的高频词; 从媒体宣传到政府公告，从企业的应对举措到民众的日常生活，耳熟能详、无人不晓。
Ms Xue's social distancing has become a commonplace in American society, from media campaigns to government announcements, from business responses to people's daily lives.
部分美国人开始习惯好友见面隔空拥抱，生意场上暂停握手示好。
Some Americans are beginning to get used to meeting friends and hugging each other across the aisle.
我一个美国同事跟我打趣说，可以试试中国的拱手礼。
One of my American colleagues joked with me that I could try a Chinese handshake.
“云办公”、“云健身”、“云社交”不可避免地就在拐角处了，尤其在纽约这样的大城市。
Cloud office, Cloud Fitness and Cloud Social are inevitably around the corner, especially in big cities like New York.
从上周开始，自西雅图至纽约，天主教、基督教、犹太教教堂，以及清真寺陆续停止礼拜等仪式和活动。
From Seattle to New York last week, Catholic, Christian and Jewish churches, as well as mosques, have stopped worshipping and other rituals and activities.
我的基督徒朋友告诉我，他们通过Zoom视频会议软件，开始了“云查经”、“云祈祷”。
My Christian friends told me that they started "Cloud Channels" and "Cloud Prayer" via Zoom videoconference software.
上周日（3月15日），如今除了总统以外，出境率最高的公众人物 - 美国联邦政府首席传染病专家、美国国家过敏和传染病研究所(National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health) 所长安东尼·福奇（Anthony Fauci）在接受美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）访谈节目“国情咨文”（”State of the Union”）的采访时，呼吁民众极大限度减少社交活动，并表示不排除全国范围内，限制甚至关闭餐馆和酒吧的可能性 – 不惜一切代价延缓病毒的传播。
In an interview with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases at the National Institutes of Health, Anthony Fauci, now the public figure with the highest exit rate outside the presidency, called for minimal social interaction and said he did not rule out the possibility of restricting or even closing restaurants and bars nationwide - slowing the spread of the virus at all costs.
福奇坦诚、敢说，是美国公共卫生领域近四十年的绝对权威（”an expert who has been a fixture of American public health for nearly four decades” – 《华尔街日报》）。
Fauci is, frankly, the absolute authority on public health in the US for nearly four decades ("an expert who has been a fixture of American public health for near future four decades" - The Wall Street Journal).
很多在美华人亲切地称他为“福南山”。
Many Chinese in the United States affectionately call him "Fornan Mountain."
就在几天前，他曾语惊四座，说NBA要赛便对着空无一人的观众席比赛。
Just a few days ago, he surprised himself by saying that the NBA had to play against an empty crowd.
不久后，NBA宣告本赛季暂停。
Soon after, the NBA suspended the season.
紧随其后，美国大学篮球锦标赛中止；迪士尼、百老汇以及纽约主要的现场脱口秀，也相继画上休止符。
This was followed by the suspension of the American College Basketball Championships and the closing of major live talk shows in Disney, Broadway and New York.
体育和娱乐的戛然而止，伴随美国人的业余生活进入休眠。
Sports and recreation came to an abrupt end, accompanied by a hibernation of American amateur life.
如同“努力” 、“沉默”，“缺乏领导力”是美国社会给华人贴上的刻板标签，“自由”和“散漫”大多时候是我们对美国人的偏见。
Like "striving," "silence," "lack of leadership" is a stereotype that American society places on Chinese, and "freedom" and "laziness" are mostly our prejudice against Americans.
然而，偏见即使多是无凭无据，也有中标的时候。
However, biases, even if they are mostly unfounded, can sometimes be won.
就在上周日，纽约市议会议员给纽约州州长安德鲁·库莫（Andrew Cuomo）和纽约市市长比尔·白思豪(Bill de Blasio)施加压力，要求关闭餐馆和酒吧 ， 因为周六的纽约夜生活场所，依然人满为患。
Just Sunday, New York City lawmakers pressured New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio to close down restaurants and bars because Saturday night life in New York City remains overcrowded.
截至上周日晚间，纽约市的确诊人数已突破300。
By Sunday night, the number of confirmed cases in New York City had exceeded 300.
曼哈顿的一名议员在他的推特中呼吁：“今天必须是我们力争关闭纽约的日子。
In his Twitter message, a Manhattan congressman said: "Today must be the day we try to close New York.
”（“Today must be the date we move to #ShutDownNYC.”）派对结束，明日却难以如常。
("Today must be the date we move to # ShutDown NYC.") The party is over, but tomorrow will not be the same.
从今天开始，我不会有机会在电梯间和同事尬聊“星期一综合征”，因为从本周一开始，大纽约地区的很多公司（包括银行、科技公司、律所等）的员工开始远程办公(work from home)。
Starting today, I don't have an opportunity to talk to colleagues in an elevator car where we talk about Monday's syndrome, since on Monday employees of many companies in the Greater New York area, including banks, technology companies and law firms, began telecommuting.
公立学校也大都关闭，并开始网上授课。
Public schools were also largely closed and online classes started.
在协调工作、协助小朋友网课和控制上房揭瓦的局面之间，很多在美华人家长，尚有很多未知的难题需要攻克。
In the coordination of work, help children online classes and control the situation of the roof tiles, many American Chinese parents, there are still many unknown difficulties to overcome.
一些上周已提前进入战备状态的家长朋友说，已经出现了电话会议当中，被熊孩子破门而入的状况。
Some parents who were on pre-war status last week said there had been conference calls in which Bear kids broke into the house.
然而，社交疏远，对于我们华人群体中大部分人来说，只是暂时生活上的不便，正常秩序的打扰；而对于美国将近70%的人口，尤其是低收入地区的人，是奢侈。
However, social alienation, for most of us in the Chinese community, is a temporary inconvenience, a disturbance of normal order, and a luxury for nearly 70% of the American population, especially in low-income areas.
换句话说，避免病毒对自己和家人的侵害，是奢侈。
In other words, avoiding the virus for themselves and their families is a luxury.
《纽约时报》在3月1日刊登了一篇题为《避免新冠病毒是一些人承受不起的奢侈》（“Avoiding Coronavirus May Be a Luxury Some Workers Can’t Afford”）的文章，其中的一则故事让我看后感触颇深。
The New York Times ran an article on March 1 entitled "AvoidingCoronavius May Be a Luxury Home Workers Can't Afford" ("AvoidingCoronavirus May Be a Luxury Home Workers Can't Afford"), a story that struck me as poignant.
格林是在纽约一家餐馆工作的单亲妈妈。
Green is a single mother who works in a restaurant in New York.
她没有医疗保险，也没有带薪病假。
She has no medical insurance and no paid sick leave.
如果学校关闭，她就无法出去工作。
If the school closes, she cannot go out to work.
旷工一天，意味着损失100美元的收入；而旷工累计几日，她将面临失业。
A day's absence means a loss of $100 in income, and a few days of absenteeism will leave her without a job.
她对纽约时报说，雇主的期望值是，除非你病得脸色发绿，否则，吞一颗维生素C,坚持下去。
The employer's expectation, she told The New York Times, is to swallow a vitamin C and stick to it unless you get sick and turn green.
而格林只是美国两千七百多万没有医疗保险的人之一。
Green is just one of more than 27 million uninsured Americans.
这两千七百万人当中，大多承受不起远程工作、社交疏远的奢侈。
Most of these 27 million people cannot afford the luxury of teleworking and social alienation.
就在上周六，美国众院以363：40 的票数，通过了用以应对新冠病毒、支持美国家庭的法案(H.R. 6201: Families First Coronavirus Response Act)。
Just Saturday, the House of Representatives passed the H.R. 6201: Families First Coronavir Response Act, a bill designed to tackle the Crown virus and support the American family, with 363: 40 votes.
不出意外，该法案本周将在参院通过，并在总统签字后生效。
Unsurprisingly, the bill will pass in the Senate this week and enter into force after being signed by the president.
这个法案，如果通过，在生效后，将提供免费新冠检测、两周的带薪病假、可长达3个月的不带薪病假以及粮食援助等关乎民生的优惠政策。
This bill, if passed, will, upon its entry into force, provide preferential policies related to livelihood, such as free crowns testing, two weeks of paid sick leave, unpaid sick leave of up to three months and food aid.
这些优惠，也许对我们很多在美华人来说，并不至关重要；但对于格林这样的单亲妈妈，却会在性命攸关的时刻，雪中送炭。
These perks may not be so important to many of us in the Chinese-American community, but for single mothers like Green, life is at stake.
在过去的一周，我身边的很多华人家长，对于学校何时宣布关闭忧心忡忡；甚至联名向学区请愿，要求关闭学校，以避免病毒社区传播、扩散的危险。
Over the past week, many Chinese parents around me have been worried about when schools will be closed, and have even jointly petitioned school districts to close schools to avoid the risk of spreading and spreading the virus from their communities.
而在纽约市，是否关闭公立学校，在上周曾一度成为社会舆论的焦点。
In New York City, the decision to close public schools was the focus of public opinion last week.
就在周日，纽约市长终于宣布，纽约市的公立学校从3月16日起关闭，直至4月20日。
Just Sunday, the mayor of New York announced that New York City's public schools would be closed from March 16 to April 20.
对于格林这样的妈妈，学校不仅仅是支持她工作的后盾，更是孩子们可以享受一顿免费热餐的唯一场所。
For a mother like Green, school is not just a backstop to support her work, but the only place where children can enjoy a free hot meal.
所幸，在接下来的 几周，纽约市的公立学校将继续为需要的孩子提供免费的早餐和午餐；并同时提供网上课程。
Fortunately, in the next few weeks, New York City's public schools will continue to offer free breakfasts and lunches to needy children, along with online classes.
据估计，纽约市将有3万多学生没有网课所需要的电子设备。
It is estimated that more than 30,000 students in New York City will not have the electronic equipment they need for online classes.
而新闻里说，已经有科技公司允诺将为这些孩子们提供需要的电子设备。
Already, technology companies are promising to provide the children with the electronic equipment they need, the newspaper said.
《纽约时报》的那篇文章里有这样一句话，极具美国特色：“并非所有人可平等获得健康预防措施；而与此不平等相对应的，是收入、教育和种族的差异。
The article in The New York Times is so characteristic of the United States that "not all people have equal access to health precautions; instead, inequality corresponds to differences in income, education, and race.
”（“Unequal access to precautionary measures cuts along the same lines that divide the United States in other ways: income, education and race.”）在社交疏远的两端，我和格林的差异，不会因为政府的举措和社会的救助而消失。
("Unequal access to preferential measures cuts along the same lines that divide the United States in other ways: income, education and race.") At both ends of the social divide, the difference between Greene and I will not disappear because of government action and social bailouts.
但当这场疫情把两个原本毫不相干的人划在了同一命运共同体内，或多或少，我们有了共担风险的交集。
But when the epidemic pushes two otherwise unrelated people into the same common destiny, we have, more or less, a convergence of shared risks.
如此，应相互守望、共克时艰。
In this way, we should keep watch over each other.
· 深度好文 | 特朗普及西方政客们热衷炒作“中国病毒”的真正目的·不顾世卫组织纠正，“中国病毒”成特朗普口头禅，有阴谋！· 荣归！上海援鄂医疗队首批英雄回沪，李强亲赴机场迎接新民周刊所有平台稿件，未经正式授权一律不得转载、出版、改编或进行与新民周刊版权相关的其他行为，违者必究。
· Trump and Western politicians have a genuine interest in hype about the "Chinese virus": Despite WHO corrections, the "Chinese virus" has become Trump's mantra. When the first heroes from the Shanghai Hubei Medical Team returned to Shanghai, Li Qiang went to the airport to receive Xinmin Weekly's manuscripts, and was not allowed to reprint, publish, adapt, or perform other acts related to Xinmin Weekly's copyright without official authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在海外 | 疫情下, 纽约的“社交疏远”是他们生命中不能承受之重。
At the time of my overseas service, New York's "social alienation" was an unbearable weight in their lives.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
