18个涨停5个跌停，“口罩第一股”剧震34天。
18 limit 5 limit limit, "the first breath of masks" dramatic shock 34 days.
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)壹“没有不倒下的龙头。
Author: Guo Ruyi Source: Business Person (ID: biz-leaders) One, "No faucet that won't fall."
”几天前清仓了道恩股份（002838.SZ）后，刘川在一个上百人的股票群中甩下了这句话。
After clearing Downs shares (002838.SZ) a few days ago, Liu Chuan dropped the phrase among hundreds of people.
过去一个半月，这只中小板股票不断诱惑和刺激着投资者。
Over the past month and a half, small and medium-sized stocks have been enticing and stimulating investors.
频繁的换手之间，早先低位进场的人可能已大赚一笔，但不少追涨杀入的股民，或许仍在山顶瑟瑟发抖。
Frequent hand-to-hand exchanges, early low entry may have made a lot of money, but many of the investors in the chase, may still shiver on the top of the mountain.
3月19日15点，道恩股份再次跌停报收。
March 19 15: 00, Dow shares again limit to close.
盘面上，全天K线走势就像一副毫无生气的心电图，所在的口罩概念板块也是一片哀嚎。
On the disc, all-day K line trend is like a lifeless electrocardiogram, where the concept of a mask plate is also a whine.
近几日的萎靡之前，道恩股份刚上演了一波飙涨行情。
Dawn's shares had just had a brisk run before the slump in recent days.
1月23日，春节前最后一个交易日，道恩股份收盘价为11.46元，在此之前的整个一月份，其最高股价也仅为12.4元。
On January 23, the last trading day before the Spring Festival, Downs shares closed at 11.46 yuan, after peaking at just 12.4 yuan for the whole of January.
2月3日，极度恐慌下的A股重新开盘，当天两市超过近3200只个股跌停——但防疫概念股却逆势大涨，道恩股份迅速成为明星，开始了它的耀眼之路。
On February 3, panic-stricken A-shares reopened, with more than 3,200 stocks trading in the two cities daily - but the epidemic prevention concept rose sharply as Dawn's shares quickly became a star and began its dazzling journey.
截至19日收盘，节后以来的34个交易日中，这只股票收获了18个涨停，股价也在3月10日盘中最高触及62.5元，较2017年上市时的发行价上涨309%。
By the close of trading on March 19th, the stock had gained 18 trading sessions in the 34 trading days since the end of the session, and its share price hit a high of 62.5 yuan on March 10, 309% higher than when it went public in 2017.
在蔓延的炒作氛围中，道恩股份的市盈率也从当时的23倍，一度超过了140倍。
In the spreading hype, Downs shares also traded at a price-earnings ratio of 23 times, once more than 140 times.
在同一时期，道恩股份振幅超过10%的交易日就有10天，这意味着行情十分震荡。
During the same period, Dawn's shares had a 10-day spread of more than 10%, meaning the market was very volatile.
虽然一连发了七条股票异常波动公告，但这家明星公司的热度依然未减。
Despite seven announcements of stock price volatility in a row, the popularity of the star company has not diminished.
富贵险中求。
Prosperity makes the best.
刘川特意组了一个道恩股份的股票群，他在里面不断分享信息，向群员们提供操作建议。
Liu Chuan purposely formed a group of Dawn shares, where he kept sharing information and providing operational advice to the group.
在此次疫情之前，道恩股份和所属的塑胶制品行业，并不像近期这般炙手可热。
Before the outbreak, Downs shares and its plastic products industry, is not as hot as it has recently been.
截至去年三季度末，其股东数量也仅为7005户。
By the end of the third quarter, the number of shareholders was only 7,005.
不过，由于业务涉及到口罩制造，道恩股份在A股市场的人气得以迅速蹿升。
But Dawn's popularity in the A-share market has jumped rapidly as the business has involved mask-making.
股吧里也变得十分热闹，艳羡、怀疑和观望的股民们，几乎每天盘后都不停地发帖讨论。
Shares in the bar also became very lively, envy, doubt and wait-and-see investors, almost every day after the day without stopping to post discussion.
“我是38元左右买入的，但一个星期后就卖了，怕太高了不敢拿。
"I bought it for about 38 yuan but sold it a week later, afraid it was too high to take.
”一位股民如此告诉“商业人物”。
One stockholder told "business people."
烈火烹油的画风，在3月10日起了变化。
The style of cooking oil changed on March 10.
虽然股价在盘中达到开年来的最高位，但当天道恩股份却出人意料地跌停。
Shares reached their highest level in trading since the start of the year, but Dow Jones shares dropped unexpectedly the same day.
此后几个交易日，这只股票掉头向下，期间更是数次跌停。
Over the next few trading days, the stock turned down, and several times during the limit.
以3月9日收盘价计算，截至19日，其股价已跌去35%，流通市值蒸发将近70亿元。
At its March 9 closing price, shares had fallen 35% and the market value evaporated by nearly 7 billion yuan as of March 19.
不过在大幅度回调之际，游资大举进出下的道恩股份仍偶有回升——正是这种震荡带来的折磨，让继续持有还是割肉离场，成了众多投资者的心头拷问。
But the sharp correction comes as Mr Dawn's shares, which have been flooded in and out of the market, have occasionally recovered - a shock that has made it a torment for many investors to keep holding or cut their meat.
已抛售道恩股份的刘川，把注意力转向了其他板块。
Liu Chuan, who has sold Dow Jones shares, turned his attention to other sectors.
而股票群中则不时有人直呼懊悔，说没能及时卖出止损；更有在62元附近进场的股民，或只能继续在原地无奈“站岗”。
In the stock market, some people occasionally regret that they did not sell stop-loss in time; there are 62 yuan in the vicinity of the investors, or can only continue in situ helpless "sentry."
贰道恩股份成立于2002年，主营产品是热塑性弹性体、改性塑料以及色母粒，主要应用于汽车工业、家用电器、医疗卫生等领域。
Dawn shares were founded in 2002, the main products are thermoplastic elastomers, modified plastics and color masterbatch, mainly used in the automotive industry, household appliances, health care and other fields.
2017年1月，这家坐落在山东半岛北部龙口市的化工厂商，在深交所中小板上市。
In January 2017, the chemical company, based in Longkou, north of Shandong Peninsula, will be listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange.
道恩股份实控人于晓宁、韩丽梅夫妇，从1991年成立的一个仅有数人的小商场起家，如今已登上全国富豪榜。
The Downs stockholders, Yu Xiaoning and Han Limei, started as a small mall with just a few people in 1991 and are now on the national rich list.
据《2019年胡润百富榜》显示，他们以36亿元财富，位列第1148名；而道恩股份所属的道恩集团，去年以209亿元的营业收入，排在中国民企500强的第424位，在省内则位列第58位。
According to the 2019 Hurun Rich List, they are ranked 1148 with a fortune of 3.6 billion yuan, while Dawn Group, which owns 20.9 billion yuan in operating income last year, ranks 424 out of the top 500 and 58th in the province.
于晓宁头衔众多，不仅身为山东省人大代表，还担任中国合成树脂供销协会副理事长、烟台市工商联副主席以及烟台市工商业联合会橡塑业商会会长等。
Yu Xiaoning has many titles, not only as a deputy to Shandong Province People's Congress, but also as vice-president of China Synthetic Resin Supply and Marketing Association, vice-president of Yantai City Chamber of Commerce and Industry and President of Yantai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
道恩股份所处的，原本是个相当小众的行业。
Downs shares in the original is a rather small industry.
在资本市场，这种缺乏想象空间、概念炒作价值不高的个股，并不十分引人注目。
In the capital market, this lack of imagination, the concept of low-value stocks, is not very eye-catching.
过去一年，道恩股份的股价就长期徘徊在20元以内，可谓波澜不惊。
Over the past year, Dow shares have hovered around $20 for a long time, hardly a surprise.
今年1月18日，于晓宁还正常出席了山东省人代会会议。
On January 18 this year, Yu Xiaoning also attended the meeting of Shandong Provincial People's Congress.
直到几天后疫情大面积爆发，这家在口罩产业链上占据关键一环的低调厂商，才迅速曝光在市场面前。
It wasn't until a few days later that the low-key manufacturer, a key player in the mask-making chain, came to light.
医用口罩通常由三层组成，内外层均是无纺布，最关键的中间层则是熔喷布，起到过滤、屏蔽和绝热等作用。
Medical mask is usually composed of three layers, inside and outside are non-woven cloth, the most critical intermediate layer is the melting cloth, filter, shielding and insulation.
以往国内熔喷布产量很低，2018年全国仅产出5.35万吨，日产量约为180吨。
In the past, domestic production of jet fabric was very low, with only 53,500 tons produced nationwide in 2018, with a daily output of about 180 tons.
除了用于口罩，这些熔喷布还用于环保材料、电池隔膜和服装材料等。
In addition to being used for masks, these fuzes are also used for environmental protection materials, battery diaphragms and clothing materials.
此外，由于熔喷布生产设备昂贵，生产线调试周期长（一般需3-5个月），因此与下游的口罩生产商数量相比，国内熔喷布厂家并不算多。
In addition, due to the high cost of production equipment, the production line debugging cycle (usually 3-5 months), compared with the number of downstream manufacturers, domestic smelter manufacturers are not many.
这直接导致了当前市面上熔喷布紧缺。
This has led directly to the current market shortage of melts.
其价格从疫情前的每吨两万元左右，一度涨至四五十万元。
Its price rose from about 20,000 yuan per ton before the outbreak to 4.5 million yuan.
即使行业有所调整，但据隆众资讯最新数据，熔喷布现货依然紧张，高位仍保持在30万元/吨左右。
Even as the industry adjusts, according to the latest rumbling data, the spot is still tight, the high is still around 300,000 yuan / ton.
局面紧张之际，道恩股份开始受到热捧。
At a time of heightened tension, Downs shares are beginning to gain traction.
作为熔喷布原料——聚丙烯熔喷专用料的生产商，道恩股份的市占率据称高达40%。
The market share of Dawn, a manufacturer of fusible jet-propylene, is said to be as high as 40 per cent.
于晓宁此前接受《中国企业家》采访时称，以往公司每天的熔喷料订单仅为100吨左右，但一月底之后订单量骤增，已严重超过道恩股份的产能。
In the past, Mr. Yu told China Entrepreneurs that orders for fuel used to be about 100 tons a day, but orders shot up after the end of January, severely outstripping Mr. Dawn's capacity.
他不得不将其他产品的设备拆分，将原有的8条生产线扩张至21条，全部用于生产熔喷料。
He had to split equipment from other products, expanding the original eight production lines to 21, all for the production of fusible jet.
另据龙口当地报纸报道，于晓宁还向中石油销售相关领导求助，增加采购1300吨熔喷料所需原料，以解决生产压力。
According to a local newspaper in Longkou, Yu also sought help from leaders involved in PetroChina's sales to increase the amount of raw materials needed to purchase 1,300 tons of fusible jet fuel to deal with production pressures.
叁一位去年调研过道恩股份的券商人士对“商业人物”称，在最近中石化介入熔喷料生产之前，道恩股份是绝对行业龙头。
Mr Dawn's shares were the absolute industry leader until Sinopec's recent involvement in smelter production, according to a brokerage who studied aisle shares last year.
“中石化这次是’国家任务’，对道恩算不上利空，有助于行业更加规范。
"Sinopec is a 'national mission' this time, which is not a boon to Dawn and helps the industry to be more regulated.
其实，道恩股份的主要看点是热塑弹性体业务，这次是误打误撞把原来不怎么赚钱的改性塑料业务（如熔喷料业务等）给炒起来了。
In fact, Dawn's main focus is on the thermoplastic elastomeric business, this time mistakenly making money to modify the plastic business (such as the melting pot business) to stir up.
”财务数据显示，熔喷料确实并非道恩股份的主要收入来源——去年其销售收入仅占总收入的20%左右。
Indeed, according to financial data, smelting is not the main source of income for Mr Downs, whose sales accounted for only about 20 per cent of revenues last year.
在3月10日大跌前一天，道恩股份就曾发布公告向市场“预警”，表示熔喷料在营收中占比不高，而其他主要产品也正在遭受疫情的冲击。
The day before the March 10 plunge, Dow Jones shares issued a notice to the market "early warning," that the melt accounted for a small percentage of revenue, and other major products are suffering the impact of the epidemic.
“我关注这家公司时估值还不贵，市值才30亿左右，业绩也就一个多亿。
"I was concerned that the company was undervalued, with a market capitalisation of about $3bn and a performance of more than $1bn.
当时感觉它成长性比较好，所以就持续看看。
It felt like it was growing better, so keep looking.
”上述券商人士回忆。
The brokerage people recall.
而在当前的动荡行情之下，道恩股份的总市值已超过160亿元。
In the current turmoil, the total market value of Dow Jones shares has exceeded 16 billion yuan.
身处疫情风口的中心，在翻来覆去的炒作之中，这只口罩概念股已今非昔比。
At the center of the epidemic, amid the hype, the mask concept is no longer the same.
正在切身经历这波财富洗礼的，无疑还有于晓宁、韩丽梅夫妇。
Are personally experiencing this baptism of wealth, there is no doubt that xiao ning, Han Limei couple.
目前，于晓宁通过道恩集团间接持有道恩股份48.51%股份，韩丽梅则持股21.08%，二者合计共持有近70%的股份。
Currently, Mr. Yu holds 48.51% of Dow Jones indirectly through Dawn Group, while Ms. Han holds 21.08%, with a combined stake of nearly 70%.
以节前最后一个交易日收盘价计算，其持股总市值约32亿元。
Based on the closing price of the last trading day before the festival, the total market value of its holdings is about $3.2 billion.
而如果按照62.5元的阶段性高点计算，于晓宁夫妇手中的财富曾暴涨至175亿元。
At 62.5 yuan, the couple's wealth soared to 17.5 billion yuan.
只不过随着股价持续回落，这轮诱人的纸面富贵正在不断缩水。
But as share prices continue to fall, the alluring paper bonanza is shrinking.
2月12日，道恩股份曾公告表示，韩丽梅以及另外两名高管计划将减持3.26%。
On Feb. 12, Downs shares announced that Han and two other executives planned to reduce their holdings by 3.26%.
从减持可以执行的3月4日至今，他们是否在二级市场有过操作不得而知。
It is not known whether they have operated in the secondary market since March 4, when the reduction was enforceable.
而与此相反，也有道恩股份的关联人士摩拳擦掌增持股票——一位独董的配偶在3月10日斥资150万元，以约53.1元/股的成本价进场，其可能在期待下一波的上涨行情。
On the other hand, the owner of Dawn shares, a sole proprietor whose spouse paid $1.5 million on March 10 to enter the market at a cost of about $53.1 per share, may be looking forward to the next rally.
从业绩上看，道恩股份仍在以明显的速度增长。
In terms of performance, Downs shares are still growing at a remarkable rate.
2018年和2019年，其营收分别为13.63亿元、27.33亿元；归母净利润为1.22亿元、1.68亿元。
In 2018 and 2019, its revenue was 1.363 billion yuan and 2.733 billion yuan, respectively, while the net homecoming profit was 122 million yuan and 168 million yuan.
由于疫情对业绩的有利影响，有市场机构甚至大胆预测，道恩股份今明两年的净利润均将超过4亿元。
Because of the positive impact of the epidemic on performance, some market agencies have even boldly predicted that Dow's net profit will exceed $400 million this year and next.
但疫情催生的短期效应，能否持续推高股价，则是另外一个问题。
But whether the short-term effects of the outbreak will keep pushing prices higher is another question.
与疯狂的熔喷布市场完全不同，道恩股份生产的熔喷料，整体市场价格甚至出现下滑。
In contrast to the frenzied melt-out market, Dawn shares produced by the melting pot, the overall market prices have even declined.
隆众资讯统计显示，本周国内熔喷料的价格从15000元/吨跌至13000元/吨，最低价位已触及12500元/吨左右。
Rongzhong information statistics show that this week the price of domestic melts fell from 15,000 yuan / ton to 13,000 yuan / ton, the lowest price has touched about 12,500 yuan / ton.
其实并未处在风暴中心的道恩股份，却在资本市场狂热的情绪裹挟下，股价被“炒到了天上”。
In fact, not in the center of the storm Dawn shares, but in the capital market frenzied sentiment, share prices were "speculation in the sky."
肆过去两个月，往日乏人问津的口罩行业成了“印钞机”，A股市场更是见证了概念股的火热。
In the past two months, the former inhospitable mask industry has become a "banknote printing machine," A-share market has witnessed the hot concept of stocks.
各路参与者蜂拥而至。
All the participants flocked.
连勤勤恳恳造车多年的比亚迪，都转产成了全球最大的口罩生产商。
Even BYD, which has been a conscientious builder for years, has turned into the world's largest mask manufacturer.
如今在深圳街头，“比亚迪牌”口罩正在以平价源源不断地供应。
Now on the streets of Shenzhen, BYD masks are being supplied at affordable prices.
巴菲特的老搭档查理·芒格说过，如果不能接受股价腰斩，那就说明你不适合投资。
Buffett's former partner, Charlie Munger, has said that if you can't accept a cut in the price of a stock, you're not going to invest.
道恩股份最近的剧烈波动，上演的就是类似场景。
The recent sharp swings in Dawn's shares present a similar scenario.
感受刺激之余，“口罩概念股”是否已结束的疑问，正盘旋在焦虑的市场上空。
Feeling the excitement, the question of whether the Mask Concept Unit is over is hovering over anxious markets.
有意思的是，为抗击疫情，最近高调宣布介入熔喷料、熔喷布和口罩生产全链条的中石化，股价却一直徘徊在区区四五元之间，保持“情绪稳定”。
Interestingly, Sinopec, which recently announced a high-profile intervention in the entire chain of fuze, spray and mask production, has been trading around a paltry $45 a share, keeping an "emotional balance."
真是吭哧吭哧干活有我，股市分红没份。
There's me at the scratch. There's no share in the stock market.
欺负老实人啊。
Bullying honest people.
（文中刘川为化名）推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
18个涨停5个跌停，“口罩第一股”剧震34天。
18 limit 5 limit limit, "the first breath of masks" dramatic shock 34 days.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "18个涨停5个跌停，“口罩第一股”剧震34天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 18 trading daily & amp; daily limit; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "人生的大起大落，太刺激了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; life's ups and downs, too exciting.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '通过协和医院，看企业家的慈善段位',。
Through Concorde Hospital, see AT & amp; T's charitable department & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉动物：遗弃、流浪、厮杀、死亡',。
Wuhan Animal: Abandoned, vagabond, killed, killed or killed.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '给体育大年算本账',。
AT & P's expense & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
