获特朗普和马斯克力挺，“神药”氯喹抗新冠能走多远？。
How far can chloroquine, the "miracle drug," go when Trump and Musk stand firm?
杨大可 孙滔。
Yang Daoduo Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
3 月 19 日，在冠状病毒专责小组新闻简报会上，美国总统特朗普宣称：“如果有一个药在欧洲、日本等其他国家被证实可以有效地抗击病毒，那么我们会用这个信息来保护美国人，这种药叫氯喹。
On March 19, at a press briefing by the Coronavirus Task Force, US President Trump declared: "If one drug is proven to be effective in fighting the virus in other countries, such as Europe and Japan, then we will use this information to protect Americans, which is called chloroquine.
而且这个药已经有很久的历史了，所以我们知道即便用它治不好，也不会有人死掉。
And this medicine has been around for a long time, so we know that even if it doesn't work, no one will die.
如果用新药的话，你不知道会发生什么。
If you use a new drug, you don't know what will happen.
我们将马上提供这种药物。
We'll supply the medicine right away.
”特朗普还表示，他已经指示美国食品药品监督管理局（FDA）尽快地调查是否要给新冠病毒的患者服用这种只能通过处方才可获得的药物——氯喹。
Trump also said he had instructed the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to investigate as soon as possible whether to administer chloroquine, the only available drug, to patients with the new crown virus.
随后，国际制药商拜耳在其一份新闻稿中表示，该公司将向美国患者捐赠 300 万片 Resochin（磷酸氯喹）药物。
Subsequently, international pharmaceutical manufacturer Bayer said in a press release that the company would donate 3 million tablets of Resochin (chloroquine phosphate) to patients in the United States.
另外一个力挺氯喹的名人是特斯拉 CEO 埃隆 · 马斯克（Elon Musk）。
Another celebrity to support chloroquine is Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla.
图 | 马斯克发推特看好氯喹对新冠病毒的治疗作用随后，FDA 专员斯蒂芬 · 哈恩（Stephen Hahn）对媒体说，FDA 目前尚未批准这两种药物治疗冠状病毒。
When Musk tweeted about chloroquine's ability to treat the new crown virus, FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn told the press that the FDA has yet to approve either drug for the coronavirus.
并且强调，“目前重要的事情是不要提供虚假的希望。
"The important thing now is not to offer false hope," he stressed.
” 他补充说，“但是特朗普要求 FDA 要更加积极进取，发现令人兴奋的抗疫方法突破。
"But Trump wants the FDA to be more aggressive and find exciting breakthroughs against the disease," he added.
我们正在 FDA 进行这项工作，但要客观理智看待问题。
We are doing this in the FDA, but we have to be objective and sensible.
”实际上，自新冠疫情暴发以来，中国工程院院士钟南山曾数次提到过氯喹这种药物，不过他多次强调氯喹“并非特效药”。
Indeed, Zhong Nan Shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, has referred to chloroquine several times since the outbreak, though he has repeatedly stressed that chloroquine is "not a specific drug."
在 2 月 18 日，在广东省举行的疫情防控新闻发布会上，钟南山说：“磷酸氯喹够不上特效药，但有治疗效果，副作用不大，值得研究和探讨。
"Chloroquine phosphate is not effective enough, but it has therapeutic effects, has few side effects and is worthy of study and discussion," Zhong Nan-shan said at a press conference on Feb. 18 in Guangdong Province.
”次日，钟南山在会后接受中央广播电视总台的专访时称，氯喹现在不是特效药，但却是一个有效药，其最重要的优势在于安全。
In an interview with China Central Radio and Television after the meeting the next day, Mr Zhong said chloroquine was not a panacea but an effective drug whose most important advantage was safety.
图 | 3 月 18 日钟南山在广州市第 46 场疫情防控新闻通气会（来源：网络）2 月 19 日，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》，将磷酸氯喹与阿比多尔纳入抗病毒治疗试用药物，并删除了“目前没有确认有效的抗新型冠状病毒治疗方法”。
CHUNG Nan-shan announced on February 19 its "New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial Version 6)," adding chloroquine phosphate and Abidol to antiviral trials, and deleting the phrase "no effective new coronavirus treatment has been identified."
3 月 18 日，钟南山在新闻发布会上表示，“我们需要有一个严格的总结”，其团队试用了氯喹，大概在下星期会将内容总结好，准备发表。
"We need a rigorous summary," Zhong said at a press conference on March 18. "We need a rigorous summary," and his team tested chloroquine and will probably wrap it up for publication next week.
那么，备受关注的氯喹到底是什么药？它真的有如此神通吗？初步试验结果并不一致新冠病毒肺炎临床研究中主要用到的是氯喹衍生物，包括磷酸氯喹、羟氯喹、硫酸羟氯喹。
So, what exactly is chloroquine that attracts attention? Is it really so magical? Preliminary results do not agree that chloroquine derivatives, including chloroquine phosphate, hydroxychloroquine and hydroxychloroquine sulphate, are mainly used in clinical studies of Newcastle virus pneumonia.
这些衍生物治疗作用与氯喹相近，但药物不良反应显著减少，吸收更快，体内分布更广。
The therapeutic effects of these derivatives were similar to chloroquine, but the adverse drug reactions decreased significantly, absorbed faster and were more widely distributed in vivo.
如今已经有了细胞试验和临床试验的初步结果。
Preliminary results from cell trials and clinical trials are now available.
2 月初，中国科学院武汉病毒研究所与军事科学院军事医学研究院国家应急防控药物工程技术研究中心开展联合研究发现，磷酸氯喹在细胞水平上能有效抑制新冠病毒的感染，该研究发表在学术期刊《细胞研究》（Cell Research）上。
In early February, a joint study by the Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the National Emergency Drug Engineering and Technology Research Center of the Academy of Military Sciences found that chloroquine phosphate effectively inhibits infection at the cellular level, according to the study published in the academic journal Cell Research.
3 月 17 日，法国马赛地中海传染病研究所主任迪迪埃 · 拉乌尔（Didier Raoult）领衔的研究中，研究人员使用了羟氯喹对 20 名新冠患者进行了治疗研究。
In a study led by Didier Raoult, director of the Mediterranean Infectious Diseases Institute in Maasai, France, on March 17, researchers used hydroxychloroquine to treat 20 patients with new crowns.
另外 16 人为对照组，来自另一个临床现场。
The other 16 were controls from another clinical site.
该试验中，20 人每日接受 600 毫克羟氯喹治疗，终点评价指标是治疗第 6 天是否依然具有病毒载量。
In this trial, 20 people received 600 mg of hydroxychloroquine per day and the endpoint was evaluated for continued viral load on the sixth day of treatment.
与对照组相比，治疗组病毒性治愈的比例明显增高。
Compared with control group, the percentage of viral cure in treatment group increased obviously.
研究还发现，用羟氯喹和阿奇霉素联合治疗效果更好。
It was also found that the combined treatment with hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin was more effective.
不过作者也承认，其研究局限性是病例太少，且有多名患者退出了测试。
The authors concede, however, that the study was limited by the small number of cases and the withdrawal of several patients from the test.
另有专家批评说，该研究没有对轻重症病人分组 / 分层，不是随机研究，且对照来自其他现场，这些都影响了试验结果的客观性。
Other experts criticized the fact that the study did not group / stratify patients with mild and severe illnesses, that it was not randomized, and that the controls were from other sites, which affected the objectivity of the results.
中国的一项研究给出了不一样的结论。
A study in China came up with a different conclusion.
3 月 9 日，上海市公共卫生临床中心感染与免疫科卢洪洲等人在《浙江大学学报(医学版)》发表“硫酸羟氯喹治疗普通型 2019 冠状病毒病（COVID-19）患者初步研究”。
March 9, the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center Infection and Immunology Kluhong and others in the Journal of Zhejiang University (Medical Edition) published "Hydroxychloroquine sulfate for the treatment of common 2019 coronavirus disease (COVID-19)."
结论是：以病毒转阴率、重症化率为主要终点的研究难以对药物的疗效进行比较。
The conclusion is that it is difficult to compare the efficacy of drugs in the study of the main endpoints, virulent rate and severe rate.
也就是说，硫酸羟氯喹治疗组并没有比对照组显示更好的疗效。
In other words, hydroxychloroquine sulfate treatment group did not show better results than the control group.
硫酸羟氯喹较氯喹基础上增加了一个羟基基团，药效相当而毒性较低。
Hydroxychloroquine sulfate has a hydroxyl group added to chloroquine, which has the same pharmacodynamics and low toxicity.
该研究在 2 月 7 日注册于美国 clinicaltrials.gov 网站。
The study was registered on Feb. 7 on the United States website clinicaltrials.gov.
收集 2020 年 2 月 6 日至 25 日在上海市公共卫生临床中心住院治疗的 30 例普通型新冠确诊患者。
To collect 30 patients diagnosed with the new common crown who were hospitalized in Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center from February 6 to 25, 2020.
患者 1:1 随机分配到试验组和对照组，对照组接受常规治疗，试验组在常规治疗的基础上口服硫酸羟氯喹（400 毫克，1 次每天，疗程为 5 天）治疗。
Patients 1: 1 were randomly assigned to test and control groups, and the control group received routine treatment with hydroxychloroquine sulfate (400 mg, 1 daily course of 5 days) on the basis of routine treatment.
比较两组治疗第 7 天时咽拭子病毒核酸转阴率等指标。
Compare the rate of nucleic acid conversion of pharyngeal swab virus on the 7th day of treatment.
在治疗过程中，试验组 1 例患者发展为重症。
In the course of treatment, one patient in the test group developed severe disease.
入组后第 7 天，试验组中 13 例（86.7%）和对照组中 14 例（93.3%）咽拭子病毒核酸检测为阴性（P＞0.05）。
On the seventh day after administration, 13 (86.7%) of the test group and 14 (93.3%) of the control group tested negative for pharyngeal swab virus nucleic acid (P > 0.05).
在两周的访视期内，所有受试者的咽拭子核酸检测均转为阴性。
During the two-week visit, all subjects were tested negative for pharyngeal swab nucleic acid.
图 | 浙江大学学报（医学版）的文章截图（来源：zjujournals）卢洪洲在接受 DeepTech 采访时表示，他们团队已经对研究作了调整，重新试验并投稿到英文期刊。
In an interview with DeepTech, Lu Hongzhou, Zhejiang University Journal (Medical Edition), said its team had adjusted the study, retested it and sent it to an English journal.
在新的投稿论文中，将前 2 天的每天 400 毫克改为每天 800 毫克（一次 400 毫克，每日两次），之后为 400 毫克每天，疗程改为 10 天到 14 天，并且对 65 岁以下患者作了分层分析，发现治疗组排毒时间缩短，显示出了硫酸羟氯喹的疗效。
In the new contribution, the daily rate of 400 mg per day for the first two days was changed to 800 mg per day (400 milligrams twice a day), followed by 400 milligrams per day for 10 to 14 days, and stratified analyses of patients under 65 years of age revealed shorter detoxification times in the treatment group, demonstrating the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine sulfate.
据介绍，调整方案的依据是，其一，前 2 天提高用药量可快速达到稳态有效浓度，显著缩短病原体清除时间，减少复发，降低耐药，且不良反应未见明显差异。
According to information received, the adjustment programme was based on the fact that, on the one hand, increased drug use in the first two days could rapidly achieve steady-state effective concentration, significantly reduce the clearance time of pathogens, reduce relapse and reduce drug resistance, and there was no significant difference in adverse reactions.
其二，患者上呼吸道部位的病毒载量明显减少时，并不意味着肺泡内没有病毒，而硫酸羟氯喹给药需要很长的周期才能达有效稳态浓度。
Second, a significant reduction in viral load in the upper respiratory tract does not mean that there is no virus in the alveoli, whereas hydroxychloroquine sulfate requires a long period of time to achieve effective steady-state concentrations.
卢洪洲认为，如需得出硫酸羟氯喹的疗效比对照组更优或更劣的结论，至少需要 784 例受试者。
Luhong Zhou believes that if the results of hydroxychloroquine sulfate is better or worse than the control group, at least 784 cases need to be concluded.
如果考虑受试者脱落、剔除等因素，病例数须达到近 900 例。
If factors such as shedding and culling were taken into account, the number of cases should reach nearly 900.
这对于目前的临床研究来说是一个巨大的挑战。
This is a huge challenge for current clinical research.
他在论文中提示，在重症或危重症患者中评估硫酸羟氯喹可能更具可行性，比如是否可以降低病死率。
In his paper, he suggested that it might be more feasible to assess hydroxychloroquine sulfate in patients with severe or critical conditions, such as whether it could reduce the fatality rate.
另外，如果随着时间推移，受试者的病情确实逐渐减轻，则更提示开展随机对照临床研究的重要性。
In addition, the importance of randomized controlled clinical studies may be enhanced if the patient's condition does decrease over time.
如果开展单臂研究，而以历史数据作为对照，则可能得到假阳性结果。
A single-arm study with historical data as a control may yield false positive results.
为何是氯喹氯喹最早用于抗疟疾，由德国拜耳实验室的科学家在 1934 年人工合成，是一种广泛应用于自身免疫性疾病的药物，兼具广谱的抗病毒作用。
Why chloroquine was first used to fight malaria was synthesized by scientists at Bayer Laboratories, Germany, in 1934. It is a widely used drug for autoimmune diseases and has broad antiviral properties.
它能通过改变内吞体酸碱度值，抑制依赖于酸碱度的病毒复制步骤而发挥直接的抗病毒作用，在抑制登革热病毒、寨卡病毒和 HIV 等病毒复制中均有作用。
It can play a direct antiviral role by changing the pH of the endocyte, inhibiting viral replication steps that depend on pH, and inhibiting replication of viruses such as dengue virus, Zika virus, and HIV.
也就是说，氯喹有着如阿司匹林和二甲双胍一样的 “神药” 特质，能在对多种疾病展示令人惊讶的疗效。
In other words, chloroquine has the same "miracle drug" qualities as aspirin and metformin, which can show surprising results across a wide range of diseases.
尽管氯喹在高剂量使用时可能具有毒性，但其普遍被认为是安全的，并且在中度剂量下耐受性良好。
Although chloroquine may be toxic at high doses, it is generally considered safe and well tolerated at moderate doses.
罗氏制药总部（瑞士）医学总监刘挺在《中国银行保险报》撰文认为，磷酸氯喹在理论上是一个完美的抗新冠药物。
Writing in the Bank of China Insurance Journal, Liu Ting, medical director of Roche Pharmaceutical Headquarters (Switzerland), said chloroquine phosphate was in theory a perfect new-crown drug.
在新冠病毒感染初期，病毒在人体内大量复制，但临床症状可能表现为轻症，那么此时应当以减少病毒数量为主，支持机体免疫系统有效清除病毒，阻止病情向重症发展。
In the early stage of the new crown virus infection, the virus replication in the human body, but clinical symptoms may show mild symptoms, then the main should be to reduce the number of virus, support the body's immune system to effectively remove the virus, prevent the disease from developing seriously.
一旦机体免疫系统被过度激活，释放大量炎症因子，造成了肺部组织损伤，临床症状就转成了重症，当情况进一步恶化出现呼吸和其他器官衰竭，这就是危重症了。
Once the body's immune system is overactivated, releasing a large number of inflammatory factors, causing damage to lung tissue, the clinical symptoms become severe, and when conditions deteriorate further, respiratory and other organ failure becomes critical.
对于重症病人，抑制病毒复制已经不是最主要治疗目标，而是控制过激的免疫系统，对症恢复器官功能。
For patients with severe disease, viral replication is no longer the primary treatment target, but the control of an excessive immune system, symptomatic recovery of organ function.
刘挺认为，磷酸氯喹可以抑制多种病毒的感染和复制，体外实验显示可以在低浓度时抑制新冠病毒。
Liu Ting thinks chloroquine phosphate can inhibit the infection and replication of many viruses, and in vitro experiments show that the new crown virus can be suppressed at low concentrations.
另外它也可以治疗自身免疫疾病，调节免疫应答，抑制炎症反应。
In addition, it can also treat autoimmune diseases, regulate the immune response, inhibit inflammatory response.
这样看来磷酸氯喹似乎是两种治疗机制的完美结合，在抑制免疫反应的同时也抑制病毒复制，避免了很多免疫抑制剂可能引起病毒复制的风险。
Thus chloroquine phosphate appears to be the perfect combination of the two therapeutic mechanisms, inhibiting both immune responses and virus replication, thus avoiding the risk that many immunosuppressants may cause viral replication.
卢洪洲也表示，硫酸羟氯喹可以作为一个免疫抑制剂，可以抑制细胞因子风暴。
Luhong Zhou also said that hydroxychloroquine sulfate can be used as an immunosuppressant to suppress cytokine storms.
2005 年，有科学家发现氯喹可有效阻断 SARS 病毒在细胞系中的感染。
In 2005, scientists discovered that chloroquine was effective in blocking infection of the SARS virus in cell lines.
这给了科学家利用氯喹抗新冠病毒的信心。
This gives scientists confidence in the use of chloroquine-resistant new crown virus.
目前世界各国的实验室在纷纷使用磷酸氯喹和硫酸羟氯喹进行研究测试。
Currently laboratories all over the world are using chloroquine phosphate and hydroxychloroquine sulfate for research and testing.
图 | 氯喹的分子式（来源：Wiki）3 月 20 日，DeepTech 在中国临床试验注册中心以 “氯喹” 为关键词搜索注册题目，得到 18 个有关新冠肺炎的在研项目结果，其中多数研究采用磷酸氯喹或硫酸羟氯喹。
Molecular formula for chloroquine (source: Wiki) On 20 March, DeepTech used chloroquine as a keyword in a clinical trial registry in China to search for registration topics. Eighteen research projects with new crown pneumonia were conducted, most of them with chloroquine phosphate or hydroxychloroquine sulfate.
此外，还有 5 个氯喹项目由于各种原因已被撤销。
In addition, five chloroquine projects have been cancelled for various reasons.
还有许多未知数有多家媒体表示特朗普在缺乏更多科学证据时，就做如此表态是“惊慌之后的过度反应”，但美国一些生物技术专家纷纷表态，认为值得投入更多的资金来研究这种药物。
There are also many unknowns that Trump is "overreacting after panic" when he says he lacks more scientific evidence, but some biotech experts in the US say it is worth spending more on the drug.
约翰 · 霍普金斯医学院的生物医学工程专业博士、以生命科学为重点的投资者贝利（Vas Bailey）说：“我不认为特朗普让该药物迅速地用于给患者治疗是一种对疫情感到惊慌的反应。
Vas Bailey, a PhD in biomedical engineering at Johns Hopkins Medical School and a life science-focused investor, said: "I don't think Trump's use of the drug to treat patients quickly is a panicky response to the epidemic.
这有可能是使用现实证据来帮助我们在此前的安全药物中，发现有哪种可能可以缓解肺炎症状，并成为治疗新型冠状病毒的潜在有效方法。
It is possible that the use of realistic evidence to help us in the previous safety drugs, found that there may be a relief pneumonia symptoms, and a potential effective treatment for the new coronavirus.
”据 FDA 的表态，或许距离氯喹被批准用于 COVID-19 的治疗还有很长的路要走，因为其背后的证据还不够充分。
According to the FDA, there may be a long way to go before chloroquine is approved for treatment of COVID-19, because the evidence behind it is insufficient.
FDA 官员指出：目前还没有来自随机临床试验的数据，而随机临床试验是被认为能将可能的偏倚降至最低的黄金标准。
Data from randomized clinical trials, the gold standard believed to minimize possible biases, are not yet available, FDA officials said.
也有科学家说，最大的问题之一还包括目前还没有“双盲测试”，如果医生有预先的认知判断，则可能会影响如何治疗患者的判断。
One of the biggest problems, say scientists, is that there are no "double-blind tests," which could affect doctors' judgment on how to treat patients if they have prior cognitive judgements.
这将引入难以与其他药物作用分开的干扰变量。
This will introduce disturbance variables that are difficult to isolate from the effects of other drugs.
此外，FDA 还需要做进一步的工作来了解这种药物是否真的可以减少住院时间并降低死亡率，以及其是否会影响患者呼吸等问题。
Further work is needed to see if the drug actually reduces hospitalization and mortality, and whether it affects patients' breathing.
此外，关于何时、怎样，以及该向哪些患者给出该药物仍有一些未知数。
In addition, there is still some uncertainty about when, how, and to whom the drug should be given.
氯喹是处方药，它可能有副作用，并可能产生禁忌症。
Chloroquine is a prescription drug that may have side effects and may produce contraindications.
此前被发现的副作用就是“氯喹视网膜病”，当人体内累积了大量的氯喹之后将会导致永久性的视力丧失。
A previously discovered side effect is chloroquine retinopathy, which causes permanent vision loss when large amounts of chloroquine accumulate in the body.
但是，在总剂量低于 400 克（仅在治疗数年后才能达到剂量）的患者中，视网膜发生损害的情况是比较罕见的。
However, retinal damage is rare in patients with a total dose of less than 400 grams, which can only be reached after years of treatment.
鉴于上述原因，世卫组织在过往的新闻发布会上的态度一贯是：目前 “没有证据” 表明该药物可有效地治疗冠状病毒。
For these reasons, the WHO's approach at past press conferences has been that there is "no evidence" that the drug is effective in treating coronavirus.
图 | 特朗普 3 月 19 日冠状病毒专责小组新闻简报会的直播截图（来源：WH.GOV）不过，总体来看，很多生物技术专家都表示：“人们有理由去乐观地认为这种药物会有所帮助。
But overall, many biotechnology experts say: "There is reason to be optimistic that this drug will help."
因为如果没有效果的话，人们是不会看到来自中国、韩国和法国的医疗专业人员对此进行调查的。
Because if it didn't work, people wouldn't have seen medical professionals from China, South Korea and France investigate it.
”在 2 月 26 日英国政府将氯喹加入了不能从英国平行出口的药品清单中。
On February 26, the British government added chloroquine to a list of medicines that could not be exported in parallel from the UK.
在此之前，氯喹从未出现在这个列表中。
Until then, chloroquine had never appeared on this list.
医生们表示，很多健康的人在看到了马斯克的推文和其他消息之后，就不断地给他们打电话，要求开氯喹的药物处方。
Doctors say many healthy people keep calling Musk after seeing his tweets and other news and demanding a prescription for chloroquine.
这会浪费医生治疗真正患病的人的时间，也可能意味着供应不能持续地落实在真正需要的人身上。
This can be a waste of time for doctors to treat those who are truly ill, or it may mean that supplies are not being delivered sustainably to those who really need it.
随着特朗普力挺氯喹，更加重了医生对此的担忧。
As Trump campaigned for chloroquine, it added to doctors "concerns.
“我认为任何抗病毒药物的库存都令人担忧。
"I think any stock of antiviral drugs is worrying.
我可以想象到发生这种挤兑的情况，因为周围已经有越来越多的证据出现了。
I can imagine this kind of run because there is more and more evidence around.
” 哈佛医学院副教授、麻省总医院内科医师奥尔森（Kristian Olson）如是说。
So says Kristian Olson, an associate professor at Harvard Medical School and physician at Massachusetts General Hospital.
有一点值得肯定，氯喹药物足够便宜，且合成生产技术都比较成熟，能满足供应。
One thing is certain: chloroquine is cheap enough, and synthetic production technology is mature enough to satisfy supply.
-End-参考：https://www.cnbc.com/2020/03/19/what-is-chloroquine-trump-and-elon-musk-have-touted-for-coronavirus.htmlhttps://docs.google.com/document/d/e/2PACX-1vTi-g18ftNZUMRAj2SwRPodtscFio7bJ7GdNgbJAGbdfF67WuRJB3ZsidgpidB2eocFHAVjIL-7deJ7/pubhttps://www.elsevier.com/__data/assets/pdf_file/0007/988648/COVID-19-Drug-Therapy_Mar-2020.pdfhttps://baijiahao.baidu.com/s?id=1661506239961259728&wfr=spider&for=pchttp://finance.sina.com.cn/roll/2020-03-18/doc-iimxyqwa1421826.shtmlhttps://www.cnbeta.com/articles/science/957639.htm。
- End-Ref: https: / / www.cnbc.com / 2020 / 03 / 19 / what-is-trump-and-elon-musk-have-toutps: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 2PACX-1vTi-g18f.shtmlhttps: / / www.cnbeta.com / articles / science / 957639.htm
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
获特朗普和马斯克力挺，“神药”氯喹抗新冠能走多远？。
How far can chloroquine, the "miracle drug," go when Trump and Musk stand firm?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "获特朗普和马斯克力挺，“神药”氯喹抗新冠能走多远？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "3 月 19 日，在冠状病毒专责小组新闻简报会上，美国总统特朗普宣称：“如果有一个药在欧洲、日本等其他国家被";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
