大年初一，我接到救援武汉的通知 | 医生抗疫手记。
At the beginning of New Year's Day, I received a call to help Wuhan.
刘韬滔。
Liu Taodao.
果壳                      。
Fruit shells.
果壳。
Fruit shells.
科学和技术，是我们和这个世界对话所用的语言。
Science and technology are the language of our dialogue with the world.
。
.
编者按：本文作者刘韬滔为北京医院外科ICU主治医师，进入援鄂国家医疗队名单后，二月七日从北京去往武汉，进行医疗救助。
Editor's Note: Liu Tuo, author of this article, went to Wuhan from Beijing on February 7 to receive medical assistance after entering the list of overseas medical teams.
二月八日晚上九点坐大巴车从汉口驻地出发。
February 8th at 9 pm from Hankou station by bus.
半小时后进入蔡甸区，车在一路口红灯前停下。
Half an hour later, enter Cai Den and stop at a red light.
我转头望向窗外，赫然看见指示路牌：火神山医院。
I looked out of the window and saw the sign: Mount Fire Hospital.
继续前行，靠近院区后有路障，两名交警站立路口，气氛略显紧张。
Moving on, close to the courtyard behind a roadblock, two traffic police stand at the junction, the atmosphere slightly tense.
楼顶“华中科技大学同济医院中法新城院区”的大字招牌在暗夜里泛出红光。
The large print sign "Tongji Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Huazhong University of Science and Technology" glowed red at night.
车辆缓缓进入医院，我们由员工通道鱼贯而入。
The traffic entered the hospital slowly, and we filed in through the staff passageway.
初进隔离病房出电梯，刷卡，进入清洁区办公室。
First in the isolation ward out of the elevator, swipe card, into the cleaning area office.
护士们在路上也都戴着护目镜，她们说护目镜让自己安心。
Nurses wear goggles on the road, too, and they say they set themselves at ease.
为了保证贴合严丝合缝，有的人喜欢把护目镜和口罩勒紧。
Some people like to tighten their goggles and masks to make sure they fit nicely.
后来进入隔离病房才发现，这种持续的轻微压迫，不超过半小时，就会像紧箍咒一样，导致严重头痛。
It was only later admitted to the isolation ward that this continued mild compression, which did not exceed half an hour, caused a severe headache, like the constriction of the staff.
气溶胶传播跟暴露时间和病毒浓度相关，所以我只在污染区才戴护目镜和N95口罩。
Aerosol transmission is associated with exposure time and virus concentration, so I wear goggles and N95 masks only in contaminated areas.
护士都说我心大。
Nurses say my heart is big.
我在污染区戴着护目镜和N95口罩 | 作者供图从北京出发前，我只是在培训现场观摩了一下防护流程，没想到抵汉之后就直接进入病房工作，有点在战争中学习战争的意思。
I wore goggles and N95 face masks at the contaminated area. Before I set out from Beijing, I was just at the training site, observing the flow of protection. I didn't expect to enter the hospital room directly after my arrival.
病房楼新改造完毕，留下两名医生在清洁办公区开立医嘱，书写电子病历。
Ward buildings were newly renovated, leaving two doctors in the clean office area to open medical advice and write electronic medical records.
有一名感染控制人员专门协助监督大家穿脱防护服。
An infection control officer specifically assists in monitoring the wearing of protective clothing.
三名医生，四名护士，穿戴整齐所有防护，还要再穿过四道门，跨越三个缓冲区，才能进入污染区的隔离病房。
Three doctors, four nurses, all dressed up, and four more gates across three buffer zones to reach the isolation ward in the contaminated area.
每一个缓冲区相对的两道门不能同时打开，防止空气对流。
Each buffer opposite two doors cannot be opened simultaneously to prevent air convection.
刚刚进入病区，立刻就有新病人到来，原本空荡荡的病区就成了真正的污染区。
As soon as new patients arrive in the affected area, the empty area becomes a real contaminated area.
同济医院留下了几个护士协助我们。
Tongji Hospital left us a few nurses to help us.
相比这些已经克服了恐惧的本院护士，新来的众人看见病人后都禁不住有点退缩。
Compared with the nurses, who had overcome their fears, the new comers could not help but recoil a little when they saw the patients.
每个房间都开了通风扇，很吵。
Ventilation fans are on in every room. It's noisy.
防护服的连体帽包住双耳，需要近距离说话才能听清楚。
The overalls are attached to the ears and need to be spoken up close to hear.
余光又被护目镜遮挡，只能看见前方视野。
Yu Guang is shielded by goggles again, can only see the front field of vision.
问诊的时候，我提醒病人戴好口罩，站在病人一侧。
During the consultation, I reminded the patient to put on a mask and stand on the patient's side.
病人习惯看着我说话，不停地咳嗽。
The patient is used to seeing me talking and coughing.
我屏了一口气，觉得自己的面屏上喷满了飞沫。
I took a breath and felt my face sprayed with foam.
刚刚进入病区，立刻就有新病人到来 | 图虫创意患者血氧饱和度83%，鼻导管吸氧之后升至97%。
As soon as they entered the area, new patients arrived with T-worms at 83% of their blood oxygen saturation and 97% at the end of their nasal catheters.
因为没有查血气分析，我在心里估算，氧和指数不超过250mmHg（正常值为400～500mmHg），属于重症。
In the absence of a blood gas analysis, I mentally estimated that oxygen and the index did not exceed 250 mmHg (normal values 400 - 500 mHg) and were critically ill.
目前病区里只配有家用型无创呼吸机和一台高流量吸氧仪，如果病情恶化，是不能给予有效支持的。
At present, there is only a non-invasive ventilator and a high-flow oxygen absorber in the area, which cannot be effectively supported if the condition deteriorates.
穿着防护服，行动不便，估计真正抢救时一定困难重重。
Wear protective clothing, mobility is difficult, the real rescue must be difficult.
所有穿进污染区的衣物，出去后都必须换下，不能带离医院。
All clothing entering the contaminated area must be replaced after going out and should not be taken away from the hospital.
为了穿脱方便，我们都只贴身穿了一件单层短袖的刷手衣。
For ease of wear, we only wear a single-sleeved brush coat.
湖北古时称作云梦泽，湿度极大，夜间体感寒冷。
Hubei in ancient times known as Yun Mengze, extremely humidity, cold body at night.
加上来汉路程劳累，极其疲惫，我进入病区俩小时之后就盼着早点出去。
After two hours in the sick area, tired and exhausted by the journey, I looked forward to going out earlier.
大家都不再说话，在椅子上坐下静静等待。
No one spoke, but sat down in their chairs and waited.
交班凌晨四点，接班医师终于来了。
At four o'clock in the morning, the shift doctor finally arrived.
在手术室穿手术衣要遵循无菌原则，为了保护患者不能接触外层，手术结束之后外科医师就可以潇洒随意地脱掉了。
Surgical clothing in the operating room should follow the principle of asepsis, in order to protect patients from contact with the outer layer, surgery doctors can casually remove after the surgery.
脱隔离服的要求则恰好相反，出病房时外层已经污染，因此需要小心双手别碰到内层，保护自己。
On the contrary, when leaving the ward, the outer layer is contaminated, so be careful not to touch the inside of your hands to protect yourself.
我摘掉面屏和外科口罩，脱掉外层隔离服和外层手套，动作轻柔，尽量避免产生气溶胶。
I took off my face screen and surgical mask, removed my outer jacket and gloves, moved gently, and avoided aerosols.
然后进入第二个缓冲区，摘掉护目镜，脱掉防护服和内层手套。
Then enter the second buffer zone and remove the goggles, protective clothing and inner gloves.
在第三个缓冲区换掉N95口罩和帽子。
Replace the N95 mask and cap in the third buffer zone.
每完成一个动作之后都要仔细用酒精消毒双手，开启每一道门之前也要消毒双手和门把手。
Disinfect hands carefully with alcohol after each movement, and disinfect both hands and doorknobs before opening each door.
最后，在清洁区更换贴身衣物。
Finally, change your clothing in the cleaning area.
大巴车在医院门口已经等候快一小时了，凌晨五点半，终于回到酒店。
The bus had been waiting in front of the hospital for nearly an hour and finally returned to the hotel at half past five in the morning.
凌晨五点半，大巴车带着我们回到酒店 | Pixabay很多同行都建议把酒店的房间也做一个清洁区和污染区的划分。
At half past five in the morning, the bus took us back to our hotel and Pixabay. Many of our colleagues have suggested that hotel rooms be made into a clean area and a designated area.
在一个没有隔断的十几平米空间里做这种事，我觉得是自欺欺人，但为了心理上舒服一点，还是脱掉身上所有衣物，塞进门后柜子里，哆嗦着径直走进卫生间仔细洗澡。
To do such a thing in a dozen square metres of unpartitioned space seemed to me deceiving myself, but in order to be psychologically comfortable, I would take off all my clothes and tuck into the cupboard behind the door, shiver straight into the bathroom and take a careful bath.
又困又饿，我后悔没有自备干粮，担心低血糖，在热水杯里投了两片橙味维生素喝掉了。
Tired and hungry, I regretted not bringing my own dry food and worried about low blood sugar, I poured two slices of orange-flavored vitamins into a hot water glass.
早上六点半，终于倒头睡下。
At 6: 30 in the morning, I finally fell asleep.
这一天，是我三十七岁生日。
It was my thirty-seventh birthday.
查房二月十日我再次进入病房。
Room Checking On February 10th I entered the ward again.
等待入院患者极多，病区开放不到四十八小时，已经满床了。
The waiting list was huge, with the area open for less than 48 hours and already full of beds.
大家的恐惧感开始消退，穿脱衣服也更加熟练。
Fear began to subside and people became more adept at taking off their clothes.
同组医生查房发现有一个病人呼吸窘迫。
A team of doctors checked in and found a patient in distress.
有创呼吸机还没有到位，来不及插管，几分钟后病人就已经心跳停止。
The invasive ventilator was not in place, there was no time to intubate, and the patient's heart stopped a few minutes later.
来汉之前，我自忖从事重症专科多年。
Before the Han Dynasty, I studied gravid specialties for years.
现在才意识到新冠病毒的厉害。
I'm only now aware of the new crown virus.
虽然之前也见过流感病毒导致的呼吸衰竭和心肌炎，但是甲流的传染性和重症发生率显然都不及它。
Although respiratory failure and myocarditis caused by influenza viruses have been seen before, swine flu is clearly less infectious and severe than it is.
也许方舱医院的医生觉得大部分病人都是轻症，但是我们在重症病房见到的，多是呼吸衰竭病人，在治疗危重症的监护病房，病人就是九死一生。
Perhaps the doctors at Fang Hau Hospital thought most of the patients were mild, but most of what we saw in the intensive care unit were respiratory failure patients who died in the critical care unit.
各处的医生面向不同的患者，直观印象也会有很大不同。
Doctors everywhere face different patients, and the intuitive impressions can be very different.
外地和湖北的病死率差异极大。
The fatality rates in Hubei and Hubei areas were very different.
首先有很多轻症患者早期没有进入到武汉当地的统计样本内，大家不知道有多少疑似病例没有接受核酸检测，也不清楚核酸检测的假阴性率到底多少。
First of all, many patients did not enter Wuhan early in the local statistics sample, we do not know how many suspected cases have not been nucleic acid testing, and do not know exactly how much nucleic acid testing false negative rate.
还有一个重要原因，武汉在短期之内很难接收这么多重症患者，医疗资源受到严重挤兑。
Another important reason is that Wuhan can ill afford to take in so many seriously ill patients in the short term, with serious runs on medical resources.
尽管现在可以给患者提供ECMO（体外膜肺氧合）等高级生命支持，但早期的充分救治更加重要。
Although advanced life support, such as ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation), is now available to patients, early and adequate treatment is more important.
比如这个猝死的患者，本身有肝硬化，新冠病毒只是其致死的诱因。
This sudden death, for example, has its own cirrhosis of the liver, and the new crown virus is only the cause of death.
实际上，我们现在能做的只是处理合并症，给予支持治疗。
In fact, all we can do now is deal with complications and give supportive treatment.
对于病毒本身，还缺少有效的药物治疗。
For the virus itself, there is a lack of effective drug treatment.
后来和当地医生交流，他们之前估计早期实际发病人数大约是当时已知数据的十倍。
They later spoke to local doctors, who previously estimated the actual number of cases at an early age to be about ten times the number known at the time.
不知道有多少疑似病例没有接受核酸检测 | 图虫创意我继续查房，大部分患者都有家庭聚集发病的病史，个别患者的家庭成员中已经接连死去两三人。
I don't know how many suspected cases have not been tested for nucleic acid. I continued my rounds, and most patients had a history of family agglomeration, with two or three consecutive deaths among family members.
问诊的时候，这几个病人诉说病史，神情淡漠。
During the consultation, the patients complained about their medical history and looked indifferent.
按照心理学的解释，遭遇创伤事件，在最初的痛哭之后就是麻木与抗拒，之后才可能慢慢克服心理创伤开始新的生活。
Psychologically, traumatic events are followed by numbness and resistance after initial sobs, after which it is possible to slowly overcome the trauma and start a new life.
抢救二月十四日晚，风雨大作，病房窗户振振作响，如有鬼魅。
Rescue February 14 night, wind and rain works, the hospital room windows vibrate, such as ghosts.
有一个病人几天前刚收治时症状轻微，还能和家人通话。
One patient was admitted a few days ago with mild symptoms and was able to talk to his family.
前一夜氧饱和度突然下降，高流量吸氧和无创呼吸机都不能改善，于是气管插管机械通气，成了病房最重的患者。
A sudden drop in oxygen saturation the night before, high-flow oxygen absorption and non-invasive breathing machines failed to improve, so mechanical ventilation of the trachea intubation became the heaviest patient in the ward.
有一部分新冠肺炎患者会在起病后某个时间里迅速恶化，和其他肺炎相比，呼吸衰竭进展更快。
Some people with new crown pneumonia deteriorate rapidly at some point after the onset of the disease, and respiratory failure progresses faster than other pneumonia.
但是在此之前，医生很难区别哪些新冠肺炎病人会恶化。
But until then, it was hard for doctors to tell which patients with pneumonia were getting worse.
后半夜我进去看病人，吸纯氧，饱和度92%，收缩压下降到60mmHg（正常值为100～120mmHg）。
In the middle of the night I go in to see the patient, suck pure oxygen, saturation 92%, systolic blood pressure drops to 60 mmHg (normal value 100 - 120 mmHg).
这是在呼吸衰竭的基础之上出现循环休克。
This is a circulatory shock on top of respiratory failure.
全身感染引起的循环休克可以在数十分钟内致命，需要液体复苏和血管活性药物治疗，前提是开放深静脉通路才能泵入药物。
Systemic infection-induced cyclic shock can be fatal in decades and requires fluid resuscitation and vasoactive drug therapy, provided that deep venous access is opened for pumping.
部分新冠肺炎患者会在起病后迅速恶化，进展到呼吸衰竭 | 图虫创意我们医院运送的超声机还在京广线上。
Some people with new crown pneumonia may soon deteriorate to respiratory failure or failure. Our hospital's ultrasound machine is still on the Beijing-Guangzhou line.
没有超声，就只能靠解剖定位，来明确病人股静脉的位置。
Without ultrasound, the patient's femoral vein can only be located anatomically.
这活儿我已经干了十年，我觉得自己手很巧，不管是静脉置管，还是气管切开，在紧急抢救的时候都尝试过，几分钟之内可以完成。
I've been working on this job for ten years, and I feel I have the right hand, whether it's vein catheterization or tracheotomy, to try and do it in a matter of minutes.
现在唯一的问题是病人较胖，我在双层防护手套外面又戴了一层外科无菌手套，难以触摸到动脉的搏动。
The only problem was that the patient was fatter, and I wore a surgical sterile glove on the outside of my double protective gloves, making it difficult to touch the pulse of the arteries.
终于找到动脉后，我嘱咐自己慢一点，再慢一点，千万不要因为着急出现锐器划伤。
Finally found the artery, I told myself to slow down, a little slower, do not worry about sharp weapon scratches.
前天夜里就有个护士输液的时候被针头刺破自己手指。
A nurse stabbed her finger with a needle the night before yesterday when she was infusion.
好些年之前我给丙肝患者做手术，也扎破过手指，这种短暂微小的职业暴露一般不会有什么风险，但还是会让人惴惴不安。
A few years ago I operated on hepatitis C patients and pierced my fingers. This brief, small professional exposure is usually not risky, but it can be nerve-wracking.
花了半个小时才顺利做完操作，小心收好缝针。
It took half an hour to finish the operation smoothly and carefully put away the stitches.
使用去甲肾上腺素之后，他的收缩压稳定于100mmHg以上，调整呼吸机的参数，氧饱和度也开始升高。
After using norepinephrine, his systolic blood pressure stabilized above 100 mHg, adjusting the respirator's parameters, and oxygen saturation began to rise.
我觉得病人至少在当天夜里性命保住了。
I think the patient survived at least the same night.
正在进行股静脉穿刺丨作者供图出污染区之后，看见有个同济医院护士在吃盒饭。
A nurse at a Tongji hospital was seen eating a boxed meal after performing a femoral vein puncture into a contaminated area.
我们医疗队内部规定，为了减少污染暴露，一律不在医院用餐。
Our medical team internal regulations, in order to reduce pollution exposure, all do not eat in the hospital.
武汉的疫情让我已经做好持久战的准备，我热了一盒米饭，还有一份莲藕排骨。
Wuhan epidemic situation has made me ready for a protracted war, I warmed up a box of rice, and a lotus root ribs.
吃完之后，跟那个面孔微黑的小护士炫耀了一番楚人“不服周”的典故，然后请教她武汉话该怎么讲。
After eating, with the face of the small black nurse showed off some Chu people "not week" allusions, and then ask her how to say Wuhan dialect.
她笑着说：我信你个邪哟。
She smiled and said, I believe you are evil.
驻地生活二月十七日，雪后初霁，碧空万里。
Resident life on February 17, after the snow, Jia, thousands of miles.
下午我去护士长房间领取分发的物资。
In the afternoon I went to the head nurse's room to collect the distribution.
来汉一周后各处捐助物资增多，饮食改善，每日吃一碗热干面。
After a week in Laohan, donations everywhere increased, diet improved, a bowl of hot and dry noodles daily.
有些水果我们就放在走廊让酒店服务员自取，服务员在字条上留言感谢。
We left some fruit in the hallway for the waiter to pick up, and the waiter left a note of thanks on the note.
护士长房间整洁温馨，靠南面窗户的可以晾晒衣服。
The head nurse's room was clean and cozy, with clothes drying in the south window.
窗外长江水面极阔，于是赞叹，一起回顾了共同的朋友，还有年轻时的好时光。
The Changjiang River outside the window is extremely wide, so praised, together reviewed the common friends, and young good time.
我喝了一杯咖啡，又喝了一杯本地清茶恩施玉露，下楼在门前闲逛。
I drank a cup of coffee, then a cup of local plain tea Enshi YuLu, down in front of the door loitering.
抽空下楼在门前闲逛 | 作者供图在汉口的黎黄陂路口，有身着隔离衣的工作人员，偶有交警。
Running downstairs at Ri Huangpi junction in Hankou, the author provided a picture of workers in quarantine and occasional traffic police.
沿江滩北行，看见有老妇人年逾八十，牵一黑狗，独坐在防汛纪念碑下。
Along the northern shore, saw an old woman over 80 years old, led by a black dog, sitting alone under the flood prevention monument.
碑上刻有毛主席诗词《水调歌头·游泳》，语录“一不怕苦，二不怕死”，“下定决心，不怕牺牲，排除万难，去争取胜利”。
On the tablet is inscribed Chairman Mao's poem "Song of Water, Swimming," which says, "No fear of hardship, no fear of death."
汉口开埠百年，一直是传统商业中心，此地的老住户向来见惯了大世面，神情波澜不惊。
Hankou, as an old city used to the world, is used to the traditional commercial centers for centuries.
近日武汉大量床位开放，我们病区已出现空床。
Wuhan recently opened a large number of beds, our sick area has appeared empty beds.
估计疫情已经逐渐控制，只需要严格隔离，慢慢等待。
It is estimated that the outbreak has gradually been brought under control, requiring only strict isolation and a slow wait.
我来回骑行数里，微微出汗，心情好极了。
I rode back and forth for miles, sweating a little and feeling great.
晚间回到酒店，浴缸消毒泡澡。
Go back to the hotel at night and disinfect the bathtub.
窗外高楼打出字幕：武汉必胜。
Out of the window high-rise subtitles: Wuhan will win.
看两岸灯火，恍然不知身在何处。
Look at the lights on both sides, vaguely knowing where.
后记我所在病区近一周以来陆续有患者出院，武汉当地疫情控制逐渐趋于稳定。
Postscript in my area nearly a week after patients have been discharged from the hospital, Wuhan local epidemic control gradually tends to stabilize.
回顾一个月之前，大年初一突然接到医院通知，准备前往武汉抗击疫情，时刻待命。
Looking back a month ago, the first day of the New Year suddenly received a hospital notice, ready to go to Wuhan to fight the epidemic, standby.
当时我正在陪父母逛中山公园和天安门广场，游客稀少，异常冷清。
I was accompanying my parents around Zhongshan Park and Tiananmen Square.
路上我把参加医疗队的事情给父母讲了，母亲很担心。
On the way I told my parents about attending the medical team, my mother was very worried.
父亲初中毕业做过中医学徒，后来又读了医学院校，在我印象中他的性格内向懦弱。
My father graduated from junior high school to be a Chinese medical student, and then went to medical school, in my impression of his introverted character cowardly.
让我意外的是父亲居然全力支持“应该去” 。
To my surprise, my father gave full support to "should go."
作为一个工作十余年的重症医生，在严重疫情之下，如果不能参与到一线，也算是我执业生涯的遗憾吧。
As a seriously ill doctor working for more than ten years, it would be a pity if I could not participate in the first line.
意在斯乎！意在斯乎！小子何敢让焉！作者：刘韬滔编辑：木易杨杨一个AI 如果你也在一线和疫情战斗，欢迎向AI讲出你的故事本文来自果壳，未经授权不得转载.如有需要请联系sns@guokr.com。
This article is from the shell and is not allowed to be reproduced without permission. Contact sns @ guokr.com if you need to.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
大年初一，我接到救援武汉的通知 | 医生抗疫手记。
At the beginning of New Year's Day, I received a call to help Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "果壳";。
Var nickname = & quot; fruit & quot;;
var msg_title = "大年初一，我接到救援武汉的通知 | 医生抗疫手记";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我是医生，我也惴惴不安";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I'm a doctor, and I'm at & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="果壳";。
var title = & quot; fruit & quot;;
