疫情之下，我们在上海的八十个探头，监测着城市野生动物。
Under the epidemic situation, we in Shanghai 80 probes, monitor the city wildlife.
疫情之下，我们在上海的八十个探头，监测着城市野生动物。
Under the epidemic situation, we in Shanghai 80 probes, monitor the city wildlife.
果壳                      。
Fruit shells.
果壳。
Fruit shells.
科学和技术，是我们和这个世界对话所用的语言。
Science and technology are the language of our dialogue with the world.
。
.
The following article comes from 自然测量员。
The following article comes from natural surveyors.
Author 王放。
Author Wang Fang.
自然测量员。
Natural surveyor.
自然测量员——丈量森林，触摸风雨，拍摄动物，讲讲漏洞百出的故事。
Natural surveyors - measure the forest, touch the wind and rain, take pictures of animals, tell stories of leaky places.
此时此刻，野生动物恐怕是一个敏感话题——一方面，不能吃、不能抓野生动物慢慢成为共识；另外一方面，病毒引起了人们对蝙蝠的恐惧，连带着影响了城市中偶然出现的刺猬、黄鼠狼和貉。
Wild animals are a sensitive topic at the moment - on the one hand, the inability to eat and catch wild animals is slowly becoming a consensus; on the other hand, the virus has caused fear in bats, with attendant effects on hedgehogs, weasels, and racoons that occasionally occur in cities.
野生动物研究和保护团队，现在能做些什么？事实上，我们的工作从未像今天这样急迫。
What can wildlife research and conservation teams do now? In fact, our work has never been as urgent as it is today.
这种急迫不但来自荒野，更扩散到了城市中——只有了解城市野生动物的分布和习性、搞清楚它们对人类活动的响应、评估它们和人类生产生活的重叠，我们才有可能制定合理的管理方案。
This urgency extends not only to the wilderness, but also to the cities - only by understanding the distribution and habits of urban wildlife, understanding their response to human activity, and assessing the overlap between them and human production and life.
当没有人说得清一个个城市的刺猬、黄鼠狼、蝙蝠都分布在哪里时，生物多样性管理、风险评估、疾病防治从何做起？总不能靠拍脑袋现猜吧。
When no one can tell where the hedgehogs, weasels, and bats are all located in cities, where biodiversity management, risk assessment, and disease control begin?
无论是物种保护还是自然资源管理，都首先需要了解。
Both species conservation and natural resource management need to be understood first and foremost.
没有了解，一切都失去了基础。
Without understanding, everything loses its foundation.
生物多样性：被忽视了复杂性的议题我们曾经把城市自然一点点抹去，现在又开始一点点补救。
Biodiversity: Neglecting the Complexity Issues We used to mop up the city, but now we're starting to make amends.
因为曾经的失误，在过去的这些年中，生态爱好者们习惯性地把城市生物多样性当成是最美好的存在。
Because of past mistakes, in the past few years, ecologists have habitually regarded urban biodiversity as the best existence.
然而生物多样性这个复杂议题之中，有一个关键问题可能被我们忽视了——生物多样性就是生物多样性。
Yet one key issue in the complex issue of biodiversity - biodiversity - is likely to be overlooked.
某种意义上讲，“多样性”这三个字是世界的本质，既不代表绝对美好，也不代表猛兽恶魔。
In a sense, the word "diversity" is the essence of the world and does not represent either absolute beauty or monster.
北京，市民帮助落入泳池的小绿头鸭脱险｜王放在美国的弗吉尼亚，我曾经被浣熊和臭鼬所代表的生物多样性迷惑过。
Citizens help small green ducks escape from swimming pools in Beijing, USA, where I was once bewildered by the biodiversity represented by raccoons and skunks.
起因是一只大脑袋浣熊，扒拉开我的推拉门，抬起头瞪着水汪汪的眼睛要食物。
It started as a raccoon with a big head, pulled open my push-and-pull door, and raised its head and glared for food.
它挨家挨户地敲门作揖，得到了源源不断的猫粮和水。
From door to door it has received a steady stream of cat food and water.
之后几天，这只浣熊骚扰了我们整个研究所——它爬上电线杆，顺着输电线闯入了办公室，把几个屋子的垃圾桶翻得满地都是，还糟蹋了冰箱里面的食物。
A few days later, the raccoon bothered our institute - it climbed the utility pole, broke into the office along the transmission line, spilled several rooms of garbage cans all over the floor and spoiled the food in the fridge.
然后引发了输电线短路，整个生态实验室和地理分析实验室停电，浣熊自己也在事故中阵亡。
It then caused a short circuit in the transmission lines, blackouts in the entire ecological laboratory and the Geographic Analysis Laboratory, and raccoons themselves were killed in the accident.
后来我才知道，在美国几乎每个独门独户的市民都能够讲出自己被野生动物骚扰的故事，除了破坏房屋，还有火灾、污染、传染病，以及每年数千万美元的财产损失……挤进屋子的浣熊带来了研究所的灾祸｜王大军现在，人们更加重视和保护城市自然。
Later I learned that almost every single citizen in the United States can tell stories of harassment by wild animals. In addition to the destruction of homes, there are fires, pollution, infectious diseases, and tens of millions of dollars worth of property damage every year.
作为科研团队，我们关心的是，在城市生态更加美好的过程中，生物多样性会发生哪些复杂变化。
As a research team, we are concerned about the complex changes in biodiversity that will occur in the context of a more ecologically sound city.
比如柏林，3000只在城市中安家的野猪，隔三差五就把公园和社区搞得鸡犬不宁。
Berlin, for example, has 3,000 wild boars that make their homes in the city, and every now and then the parks and neighborhoods become unsettled.
在伦敦和布里斯托尔，每平方千米超过18只的赤狐，彻底改变着地栖哺乳动物和鸟类的组成，进而改变着土壤、水源，甚至是农业生产和畜牧业。
In London and Bristol, red foxes, numbering more than 18 per square kilometre, revolutionize the composition of terrestrial mammals and birds, altering soils, water sources, and even agricultural production and animal husbandry.
柏林野猪引起的灾祸｜nfw.org动物在迅速适应城市生活的背后，实际上伴随着更深层次的生物学改变——惊人的适应性让某些动物类群有能力掠夺城市、侵占居民点，以这样的方式入侵人类生活。
The disaster caused by the wild boar in Berlin, the rapid adaptation of animals to life in the city, has in fact been accompanied by a deeper biological change - a remarkable adaptation that has enabled certain groups of animals to invade human life by plundering cities and encroaching on population centres.
这是生物多样性的月之暗面，也是地球最奇特壮阔的变化之一。
This is the dark side of the moon and one of the most remarkable changes on Earth.
所以，该怎么办呢？简单点说：城市生物多样性的维护和管理充满挑战，是一个不断变化、永无终点的旅程。
So what should we do? Simply put: the conservation and management of urban biodiversity is a challenging, ever-changing and never-ending journey.
复杂点说：多样性就是这个世界的本质，无论你喜欢与否。
Complicated point: Diversity is the essence of the world, whether you like it or not.
和荒野不同，城市没法给动物找到天堂一样不被打扰的栖息地，它们只能和人一起生活。
Unlike wilderness, cities cannot find a haven for animals like paradise. They can only live with people.
而一次一次的教训证明，投毒、扑杀这些容易在第一时间被想起的措施，都没有办法控制适应能力强大的动物，反而会引起连锁的生态灾难，带来更难以收拾的后果。
And time and time again, the lessons proved that poisoning, killing these easy to think of in the first place, can not control the adaptive capacity of animals, but will cause chain ecological disasters, more difficult to deal with the consequences.
即便有一天需要人为手段控制适应能力强大的城市物种，粗暴方法也往往无效｜王放管理的前提：收集动物分布、习性信息在上海的青浦区，我曾经和一只貉度过了很多奇妙的时光。
Even if one day man-made tools are needed to control resilient urban species, the crude approach is often ineffective.: Collect information on animal distribution and habits In the Qingpu district of Shanghai, I spent many wonderful times with a raccoon dog.
它可能觉得我是一个很好的同伴，好几次一屁股坐在我脚下，在深夜里嘎吱嘎吱挠痒痒发呆。
He might have thought me a good companion, sitting at my feet several times, crunching and tickling in the middle of the night.
貉实在是一种有趣的存在，一方面每个人都听说过“一丘之貉”这个成语，另一方面人们甚至不知道它就是一种真实存在的动物，而仅仅把它当成传说中的怪兽。
Raccoon dogs are really an interesting existence. On the one hand, everyone has heard the idiom raccoon dog-raccoon dog. On the other hand, people do not even know that it is a real animal, but only as a legendary monster.
传说中的貉，在上海分布广阔｜王放当我们开始系统地追踪城市貉之后，我们发现这个传说中的神秘物种竟然在长三角一带的城市之中大量存在，从上海到南京，从苏州到杭州，整个长三角区域都能够看到它们的身影。
By the time we start systematically tracking urban racoons, we find the mythical species abundant in cities along the Yangtze River Delta, from Shanghai to Nanjing, Suzhou to Hangzhou, and throughout the Yangtze River Delta.
上海动物园的徐正强老师和他的团队，仅仅在上海城区就在超过40个小区记录到野生貉。
Xu Zhengqiang, a teacher at Shanghai Zoo, and his team have recorded raccoon racoons living in more than 40 districts in Shanghai alone.
而我们后续的详细观察，发现了这个物种在城市之中的“变身”超能力——青浦的一个小区旁边有条河，貉会钻到水里变成高超的游泳健将；金山区的貉栖息地旁边有不少丘陵灌丛，貉们展示出掘土、跳跃、和捕猎青蛙的惊人技巧；而到了奉贤和南汇，它们会迅速理解校园和社区设计，在人类世界的夹缝之中繁衍生息。
We followed up with detailed observations and discovered the species' metamorphosis in the city -- a river near a neighborhood in Qingpu that will slither into the water to become a master swimmer; raccoon raccoon raccoon raccoon raccoon raccoon raccoon habitat showing amazing skills in digging, jumping and hunting frogs; Fengxian and Nanhui will quickly understand campus and community design and thrive in the human world.
这样的适应能力提醒着我们，这片土地上也有柏林野猪、伦敦赤狐一样生态位宽泛的动物。
This adaptive capacity reminds us that this land also has Berlin wild boar, London red fox as wide-ranging animals.
随着中国城市环境的不断改善，有一天赤腹松鼠和金花鼠、貉和狗獾、刺猬和野猪，也可能带来复杂的城市管理问题。
As China's urban environment continues to improve, red-bellied squirrels and golden mice, racoons and dog badgers, hedgehogs, and boars may also pose complex urban management problems.
一个简单的推论是，如果我们不了解这些物种的分布和数量，不监测它们的种群增减、适应性变化，到了真有任何问题出现的那一天，岂不是只能靠拍脑袋来管理城市生物多样性？城市生物多样性：每个人的意见都重要故事回到貉身上。
A simple corollary is that if we do not know the distribution and number of these species, or monitor their population for increases, decreases, and adaptations, on the day when any problem arises, will we not be able to manage urban biodiversity only by patting our heads? Urban Biodiversity: Everyone's Views are important stories back to racoons.
在上海、在南京，貉通过取食人类丢弃的生活垃圾，寻找到了更简便易得的食物来源。
In Shanghai and Nanjing, raccoon dogs find a much simpler and more accessible source of food by eating human discarded household waste.
它们的藏身环境也从洞穴和树根，变成了居民别墅阳台下面的裂缝、墙体的空隙、储藏室、桥墩的裂缝、煤气管道、废弃的下水道等等。
Their hiding places have changed from caves and roots to cracks in the balconies of residential villas, voids in walls, storage rooms, cracks in piers, gas pipes, abandoned sewers, etc.
可我们跑到小区里面的时候，事情的发展和我们的猜测不同。
But when we ran into the neighborhood, things went differently than we guessed.
一些市民觉得我们的发现很好玩，可也有社区居民凑过来，“能不能杀死它们啦？”、“这个獾子讨厌的很啊！”我问一个阿姨为什么对貉如此负面，阿姨的答案也简单、也有说服力——她喜欢猫也喂猫，但是她发现貉可能会捕食刚出生的小猫。
Some citizens thought our findings were funny, but some community members came up and said, "Can you kill them?" and "This badger is a nuisance!" I asked an aunt why she was so negative to racoons.
我试着告诉她，貉是这片土地的原住民，而流浪猫才是在土地被居民占领后的后来者，罪魁祸首是居民的遗弃行为。
I try to tell her that racoons are the original inhabitants of this land, while stray cats are the ones who come after the land is occupied by the residents.
可无论背后的生态过程如何，我们理解阿姨的诉求，也明白她有理由因为貉杀死了自己喜欢猫的幼崽而难过。
But whatever the ecological process behind it, we understand her appeal and why she is upset that she killed her cat-loving cubs.
同样的故事还有很多：当居民问我们貉会不会传播狂犬病的时候，我们会说理论上有这个可能，不仅是狂犬病，还有可能携带疥螨、犬瘟热、细小病毒等等。
There are many other stories: when residents ask us whether rabies is transmitted by raccoon dogs, we say that there is a theoretical possibility, not only of rabies, but also of sarcoptic mites, canine distemper, parvovirus and so on.
虽然这些病是由流浪猫狗传到貉身上，但无论如何，城市中存在着这个风险。
Although these diseases are transmitted to raccoon dogs by stray cats and dogs, there is nevertheless a risk in cities.
当居民问我们刺猬有没有风险的时候，我们会说这取决于是否是脑炎疫区，是否有疫情，但确实刺猬可能携带吸血蜱虫，但您只要不摸，就没有问题......一只简单的刺猬，身上可能有数十只吸血的硬蜱｜王放如何调查动物是我们的本行。
When residents ask us if hedgehogs are at risk, we say it depends on whether there is an encephalitis epidemic or not, but it is true that hedgehogs may carry chlorpyrifos, but as long as you don't touch them... a simple hedgehog may have dozens of bloodsucking ticks.
我们在城市里面设计了监测网络，用Occupancy Model、Bayesian Method等方式分析。
We have designed a monitoring network in the city, which is analysed by means of Occupcy Model and Bayesian Method.
而如何管理城市生态系统，恐怕需要整合每个人的意见。
How to manage an urban ecosystem, I am afraid, requires the integration of everyone's views.
怎么办？既然在城市生物多样性管理的过程中，每个人的意见都很重要，那为什么不让每个人都参与进来呢？疫情之前，我们组织了一支市民队伍，开始了一次公民科学的探索。
Since everyone's opinions are important in the process of urban biodiversity management, why not let everyone be involved? Before the outbreak, we organized a team of citizens and began an exploration of citizen science.
80台相机、100个人：一个城市的动物此时此刻，在上海，有80台红外触发相机，正在日夜记录着城市动物的分布和变化，无论是国庆、元旦前后的游园高峰，还是假期的冷清，或者是这个疫情阴云笼罩下的闭园时期。
80 Cameras, 100 People: Animals of a CityAt this very moment, in Shanghai, there are 80 infrared trigger cameras recording the distribution and change of urban animals day and night, whether it is the National Day, the peak of the park around New Year's Day, the cold vacation or the closed-door period under the overcast epidemic.
2020年1月2日顾村公园，公民科学家团队的城市动物调查｜武亦乾我们开始完整地调查野生动物在城市的分布、习性，和人类的关系，以及它们对于环境变化的适应性，在疫情开始之前，成功启动了我们的监测网络。
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10: 20 Citizen's team of city animal surveys We have begun to investigate fully the distribution of wild animals in cities, their habits, their relationship to human beings, and their adaptability to environmental change.
调查地点包括了共青森林公园、滨江森林公园、上海植物园、上海动物园、闵行体育公园、虹旭社区、复旦大学校园、上海海洋大学校园、南汇城郊、浦江郊野公园、顾村公园等区域。
The survey sites included the Communist Green Forest Park, Riverside Forest Park, Shanghai Botanical Garden, Shanghai Zoo, Minhang Sports Park, Hongxu Community, Fudan University Campus, Shanghai Ocean University Campus, Nanhui Suburban, Pujiang Country Park, Gu Village Park, etc.
在你读到这句话的这一刻，这个网络也在无人值守的情况下一刻不停地记录着。
As you read this, the network keeps track of it without anyone on duty.
我们记录了四十多种动物的分布和习性｜王放完成这些调查工作的，除了复旦大学保护生物学研究团队只外，还有一个近百名市民构成的公民科学家团队。
We have recorded the distribution and habits of more than forty animals. In addition to the conservation biology team of Fudan University, there is a team of nearly 100 citizen scientists.
这些无接触的调查，最大程度避免了市民直接接触动物的风险。
These no-contact surveys minimise the risk of direct exposure of the public to animals.
与此同时，每一名“公民科学家”都有自己的愿望和爱好，在项目中都会输入自己对于更好的城市生态的期望。
At the same time, every "citizen scientist" has his or her own aspirations and hobbies, and he or she enters his or her own expectations for a better urban ecology.
我们在产出两种东西：持续的城市动物调查；不断产生的公众意见。
We are producing two things: a continuing survey of urban animals; and a growing body of public opinion.
这两样产出加在一起，也许有机会得出一个答案：今天我们对于城市生物多样性的了解、期待、与要求。
Together, these two outputs may provide an answer: what we know, expect, and demand for urban biodiversity today.
新型肺炎带来了人们对于野生动物的巨大疑惑——能否共存？如何共存？我们国家的城市，急切地需要一个答案。
The new pneumonia has created a great deal of confusion about wildlife - whether and how to live together? Our city desperately needs an answer.
而这80个探头和100个人，希望完成如下两件事情：积累基础数据，作为一切管理方案的基础；结合公民的力量，整合公众意见。
The 80 probes and 100 people want to accomplish two things: accumulate basic data as the basis for any management program; and integrate public opinion by combining the strengths of citizens.
这些工作，从未如此急迫。
These tasks have never been more urgent.
这整个工作背后，是我们对一个更加美好世界的期待。
Behind this whole exercise is our expectation of a better world.
作者：王放编辑：游识猷本文经原作者授权转载如需二次转载请联系原作者微博 @王放_自然测量员。
This article has been authorized by the original author to reproduce this work. Please contact the original author Weibo @ Wang Fang _ Natural Surveyor.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情之下，我们在上海的八十个探头，监测着城市野生动物。
Under the epidemic situation, we in Shanghai 80 probes, monitor the city wildlife.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "果壳";。
Var nickname = & quot; fruit & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情之下，我们在上海的八十个探头，监测着城市野生动物";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "无论是保护还是管理，都首先需要了解。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
没有了解，一切都失去了基础。
Without understanding, everything loses its foundation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="果壳";。
var title = & quot; fruit & quot;;
