武汉病毒所能获得瑞德西韦专利授权吗？专利审查员这样看。
Can Wuhan Virus get a patent license from Rhetsevier? Patent Examiner sees it that way.
审查员小姐姐。
The censor's sister.
果壳                      。
Fruit shells.
果壳。
Fruit shells.
科学和技术，是我们和这个世界对话所用的语言。
Science and technology are the language of our dialogue with the world.
。
.
1月31日《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）在线发表的一篇论文显示，吉利德（Gilead）公司研发的抗病毒药瑞德西韦（remdesivir）治愈了美国首例新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例。
According to a paper published online on January 31 in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), the anti-viral drug remdesivir developed by Gilead has cured the country's first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia.
在这关键时刻，这个好消息引起了广大民众尤其是医药工作者的极大关注。
At this critical moment, the good news has aroused great concern of the general public, especially the medical workers.
而2月4日，关于这个药物的另一则消息引起了轩然大波：中科院武汉病毒研究所在其官网发布消息表示，其基于对新型冠状病毒药物筛选的研究成果，已于1月21日申报了瑞德西韦抗2019新型冠状病毒的专利。
But on February 4, another piece of news about the drug caused uproar: The Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences announced on its website that it had filed a patent on January 21 for a new coronavirus, Rhettifov, based on the results of a study to screen for a new coronavirus.
公告截图 |中国科学院武汉病毒研究所武汉病毒研究所有资格申请这项专利吗？他们获得授权的前景如何？假如获得授权，又将有何影响？果壳邀请了一位专利审查员谈谈她的看法。
Is Wuhan Virus Research Institute of Wuhan Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences eligible to apply for the patent? What are their prospects of being authorized? If so, what will be their impact? A patent examiner was invited to share her views.
药物可以申请的专利类型分为两大类一项涉及药物的发明创造要想获得专利保护，依据其研究的进展和保护期延长的需要，可以以多种类型申请保护，这就是所谓的“专利布局”。
The type of patent that a drug can apply for falls into two broad categories. To be patentable, an invention can apply for protection in a variety of ways, depending on the progress of its research and the need to extend its term of protection.
药物可以申请的专利大致分为产品权利要求和方法权利要求两大类。
The patent that medicine can apply for is divided into product claim and method claim.
产品权利要求主要涉及化合物本身的权利，比如瑞德西韦的产品权利要求涉及如下化合物的相关通式、异构体、晶体、盐或药物组合物。
The product claims relate primarily to the rights of the compound itself, such as the Rhetsevier product claim involving related generalizations, isomers, crystals, salts or pharmaceutical compositions of the following compounds.
瑞德西韦的结构式｜Meodipt [Public domain]方法权利要求包括化合物制药用途或其制备方法等。
Rhett's structural formula, Meodipt & # 91; Public Domain & # 93; Methodological claims include, for example, pharmaceutical uses of compounds or methods of their preparation.
具体到瑞德西韦，其方法权利要求包括瑞德西韦的制备工艺、制药用途、以其为活性化合物的疾病治疗方法等。
In the specific case of Rhetsevir, the method claims include the preparation process of Rhetsevir, pharmaceutical uses, and the treatment of diseases for which it is an active compound.
不同保护类型的授权专利，保护力度是不同的大致来说，产品类权利要求的保护力度强于方法权利要求。
Different types of authorized patents, the level of protection is different broadly speaking, the protection of product-type claims is stronger than that of methodological claims.
简单来说，化合物获得授权后，对该化合物任何用途的使用、许诺销售、销售、进口均需专利权人的许可。
In simple terms, the use, promise, sale or import of a compound for any purpose for which it is authorized requires the permission of the patentee.
通常，制药用途类申请在申请时间上晚于化合物类申请。
Normally, applications for pharmaceutical uses are submitted later than applications for compounds.
因此在化合物的专利保护期限内，如果其他专利权人得到的仅仅是化合物的制药用途授权，那么即使是后者想要实施该制药用途的权利，也应当获得化合物专利权人的许可。
Thus, during the term of patent protection for the compound, if the other patentee is authorized only for the pharmaceutical use of the compound, even the latter should obtain a licence from the patent holder for the compound if the latter wishes to exercise the right for that pharmaceutical use.
当然反过来说，拥有化合物专利的专利权人想要实施该制药用途的权利时，同样也需要获得拥有制药用途专利的专利权人的许可。
Of course, if a patent holder with a compound wants to enforce his or her right to use the drug, he or she also needs a license from the patentee holding the patent for the pharmaceutical use.
因此，在专利布局时，制药用途类申请一般作为防御性专利，在化合物类专利之后申请，主要用于延长药物的专利保护期。
Thus, in patent layouts, applications for pharmaceutical uses are generally made as defensive patents, which are applied for after a class of compound patents and are mainly used to extend the patent protection period of medicines.
武汉病毒所的消息还提到，其申报专利后将通过PCT途径进入全球主要国家。
Wuhan virus institute also mentioned that its patent declaration will be through PCT access to major countries around the world.
PCT，即专利合作条约，是为了在多国申请中简化程序、延长准备时间的一项国际合作条约。
The PCT, the Patent Cooperation Treaty, is an international cooperation treaty that simplifies procedures and extends lead times in multinational applications.
分为国际阶段和国家阶段，国际阶段主要是解决受理、公布、检索和初步审查的问题；申请人可依据初步审查意见决定是否进入国家阶段，具体进入哪些国家，专利在具体的国家是否授权仍需依照当地的法规判断。
The international phase is divided into international and national phases, in which questions of admissibility, publication, retrieval and preliminary examination are addressed; applicants may decide on the basis of a preliminary examination whether or not to proceed to the national stage, which countries to enter, and whether or not to grant patents in a particular country will still be judged by local regulations.
瑞德西韦的专利保护现状瑞德西韦是吉利德公司研发的抗病毒药物，目前已完成埃博拉病毒（丝状病毒）的III期临床试验，正在进行冠状病毒的临床研究。
Rhetsevir's patent protection status Rhetsevier, an antiviral drug developed by Geely, has completed phase III clinical trials of the Ebola virus (filavirus) and is conducting clinical studies on coronavirus.
目前吉利德已经以产品形式和治病方法形式请求保护瑞德西韦。
Now Geely has requested protection from Rhetsevius in the form of products and treatments.
其中，通式化合物类申请（CN104262345B，授权日2017.6.23）和具体化合物类申请（CN103052631B，授权日2015.11.25）的中国同族申请已在中国获得授权（授权的权利要求书中还包括了通式化合物制备抑制HCV聚合酶，治疗黄热科病毒、副黏病毒等病毒药剂的用途）。
Of these, applications for generic compounds (CN104262345B, authorization day 2017.6.23) and applications for specific compounds (CN103052631B, authorization day 2015.11.25) have been granted authorization in China (the authorisation claim also includes the preparation of generic compounds to inhibit HCV polymerase and to treat viruses such as yellow fever virus and paramyxovirus).
其他类型的申请未进入中国或未进入实质审查程序。
Other types of applications have not entered China or gone through the substantive review process.
瑞德西韦在中国的具体化合物授权专利 | 授权公告CN104262345B可以明确的是，瑞德西韦至少被上述授权专利以涵盖其的通式、具体化合物、药物组合物及其治疗副黏病毒等的制药用途的形式保护。
Authorization notice CN104262345B for Rhetsevir's specific compound in China makes it clear that Rhetsevir is at least protected by the above-mentioned authorized patent to cover its generic, specific compounds, pharmaceutical compositions, and pharmaceutical uses such as paramyxoviruses.
瑞德西韦不属于被武汉病毒所“抢注”任何单位或个人均可对产品、方法或者其改进类的技术方案向专利局提出专利申请。
Rhetsevir is not part of the Wuhan virus "preemptive" any unit or individual may apply to the Patent Office for the technical solution of the product, method or its improved category.
专利局经过初步审查和实质审查，对专利申请作出授权或驳回决定。
After preliminary examination and substantive examination, the Patent Office shall authorize or reject the application for a patent.
因此，即使原研吉利德已经对瑞德西韦布局了多项专利，任何单位或个人仍有权利就瑞德西韦的任何相关主题提交专利申请，出于鼓励发明创造和为了公共健康目的都是合理合法、无可厚非的。
So, even if former Geely had multiple patents on Rhettigrew, any unit or individual would still have the right to file a patent application on any subject related to Rhetsevius, which is both legitimate and justifiable for the purpose of encouraging invention and public health.
依据中科院武汉病毒研究所在其官网发布的消息推断，其可能申请了瑞德西韦抗2019新型冠状病毒的用途专利（以下简称武汉病毒所新适应症申请）。
It may have applied for a patent for the use of the new coronavirus 2019, according to a report published on its website by the Wuhan Institute of Virus of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
因此从申请的类型上说，属于方法类申请中的“新适应症”主题，与保护化合物相关的产品类申请针对的是不同的类型，这是一类针对已知化合物的常见申请类别，为已知化合物新发现的适应症提供保护。
Thus, in terms of the type of application, the "new indication" subject of the methodology application, the product category application related to the protection compound is for a different type, which is a common category of applications for known compounds, providing protection for newly discovered indications for known compounds.
且瑞德西韦的具体化合物类申请已在中国获得授权，从这个意义上讲，瑞德西韦不属于被武汉病毒所“抢注”。
In the sense that Rhetsevier's application for specific compounds is already authorized in China, Rhetsevier is not "preempted" by the Wuhan virus.
武汉病毒所能获得授权吗？具体化合物的制药用途专利是否符合授权条件，主要依据现有技术对其进行新颖性和创造性的判断。
Can Wuhan virus be licensed? Whether the patent for the pharmaceutical use of a specific compound meets the conditions for authorization mainly depends on the novel and creative judgment of the existing technology.
简单来说，可能存在以下几种情况：（1）现有技术直接揭示了所述具体化合物可以治疗所述疾病，这时新的制药用途申请不符合新颖性，无法获得授权。
In simple terms, there may be cases where (1) the available technology directly reveals that the specific compound in question can be treated for the disease in question, when the new pharmaceutical application is not novel and cannot be authorized.
（2）现有技术公开了具体化合物可以治疗某类疾病的机理。
(2) Existing technology discloses the mechanism by which specific compounds can be used to treat certain diseases.
如果可以预期新的制药用途申请属于相同机理，或者没有证据表明新的制药用途申请不适用于已公开的这类机理，那么通常可以想到用所述化合物可以治疗所述疾病，新的制药用途申请不符合创造性，无法获得授权。
If it can be expected that a new pharmaceutical application falls into the same mechanism, or if there is no evidence that the new pharmaceutical application does not apply to such a mechanism as has been made public, then it is usually conceivable that the compound could be used to treat the disease in question, and new applications for pharmaceutical uses would not be creative and could not be authorized.
（3）现有技术没有公开所述化合物的治病机理，也未公开所述化合物可以治疗所述疾病。
(3) The available technology does not disclose the therapeutic mechanism of the compound, nor does it disclose that the compound can be used to treat the disease.
通常认为本领域技术人员无法获得足够的技术启示，新的制药用途申请的创造性可能被认可。
Technicians in the field are often not thought to have enough technical inspiration, and the creativity of new applications for pharmaceutical uses may be recognized.
针对瑞德西韦制药用途的保护类型，原研吉利德已经申请了瑞德西韦治疗副黏病毒感染（如呼吸道合胞病毒感染和副流感病毒感染）、黄病毒科病毒感染（如登革热和黄热病，尤其是丙肝）、沙粒病毒感染、冠状病毒感染（如SARS，MERS）、丝状病毒感染的专利。
In terms of the type of protection Rhetsevir used for pharmaceutical purposes, the original Radesivir has applied for Rhetsevir patents for the treatment of paramyxovirus infections (such as respiratory syncytial virus infections and parafluorovirus infections), yellow fever and yellow fever, especially hepatitis C, sand virus infections, coronavirus infections (such as SARS, MERS), and filavirus infections.
这些专利公布在武汉病毒所声称的申请日（1月21日）之前，构成了判断武汉病毒所新适应症申请能否授权的现有技术。
The patents, published before the Wuhan virus's alleged application date (January 21), constitute the available technology for judging whether Wuhan virus can authorize new indications.
文首提到的1月31日NEJM在线发表的美国治愈新型冠状病毒肺炎的论文，发表在武汉病毒所新适应症申请的申请日之后，不构成武汉病毒所申请的现有技术，对能否授权的判断不起作用。
The US paper on curing the new coronavirus pneumonia, published online by NEJM on January 31, does not constitute the existing technology applied for by Wuhan virus after the date of application for the new coronavirus pneumonia.
1月31日，NEJM在线发表的一篇论文显示，吉利德（Gilead）公司研发的抗病毒药瑞德西韦（remdesivir）治愈了美国首例新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例|REUTERS那么武汉病毒所的新适应症申请，是否具备新颖性和创造性呢？在冠状病毒的四个属中，SARS-CoV、MERS-CoV和目前在我国肆虐的新型冠状病毒2019-nCoV虽均属于β属，但“2019-nCoV”是2020年1月12日世界卫生组织才正式命名的新型冠状病毒，因此基于上面提到的现有技术可以初步判断，瑞德西韦抗2019-nCoV新型冠状病毒的用途专利具备新颖性。
According to a paper published online by NEJM on January 31, the new coronavirus, remdesivir, developed by Gilead, cured the first confirmed case of coronavirus pneumonia in the United States.
创造性的判断则不那么明朗。
Creative judgment is less clear.
判断此用途专利的创造性时，需要考虑2019-nCoV病毒种类与现有技术中已公开的副黏病毒、黄病毒、沙粒病毒、丝状病毒，尤其是同为冠状病毒的SARS、MERS的病毒种类相似性、治病机理是否一致、治疗活性是否突出、是否存在病毒的选择性差异、治疗不同病毒的副作用与剂量差异等因素。
In judging the creativity of patents for this use, we need to consider 2019-nCoV virus species and open paramagnetic virus, yellow virus, sand grain virus, filavirus, especially the coronavirus-like SARS, MERS virus species similarity, whether the therapeutic activity is prominent, whether there is selective difference in viral side-effects and dose difference.
专利申请主要包括权利要求书和说明书及其附图，其中说明书应当包含技术领域、背景技术、发明内容、附图说明、具体实施方法等项目。
The patent application shall mainly include the claim, the description and the appended drawing. The specification shall include the technical field, the background technology, the contents of the invention, the appended illustration, the concrete implementation method and so on.
因此，武汉病毒所新适应症申请说明书中对病毒差异和治疗效果信息披露的多寡对判断其是否能够授权至关重要。
Therefore, the degree of disclosure of virus difference and therapeutic effect in the application instructions of Wuhan Virus Institute is very important to judge whether it can authorize or not.
如果说明书中能够通过活性数据体现出瑞德西韦针对2019-nCoV的活性相对更好或选择性更高，或与已知的SARS-CoV、MERS-CoV基于不同的作用机理起作用，则武汉病毒所新适应症申请有望授权。
If the specification shows a relatively better or more selective activity for 2019-nCoV in the specification, or works with known SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV based on different mechanisms of action, then the new Wuhan virus adaptation application is expected to authorize.
反之，如果没有证据表明上述事实，或其他任何基于现有技术不可预期的效果，则很难获得授权。
Conversely, it is difficult to obtain authorization if there is no evidence of such facts or any other effect based on the unpredictability of existing technology.
由于武汉病毒所新适应症申请刚刚提交申请不久，处于初审阶段，尚未公开，说明书中披露信息尚不可知，因此目前难以对其专利走向作出准确判断。
It is difficult to make an accurate judgement on the direction of Wuhan virus because the application for new indication has just been submitted, it is in the preliminary stage, has not been made public, and the information disclosed in the specification is not yet known.
假如获得授权，会带来什么影响目前，瑞德西韦的核心专利仍被原研吉利德公司掌握，专利期还很长。
What would happen if it were granted? At present, Rhettigrew's core patent is still in the hands of former research firm Geely, and the patent period is still long.
虽然我国专利法中规定了“在国家出现紧急状态或者非常情况时，或者为了公共利益的目的，国务院专利行政部门可以给予实施发明专利的强制许可”，但目前强制许可还没有先例。
Although China's patent law stipulates that the administrative department for patent under the State Council may grant a compulsory license for the implementation of the invention patent in times of national emergency or exceptional circumstances or for the purpose of public interest, there is no precedent for compulsory license at present.
所以，如果武汉病毒所新适应症申请能获得授权，对目前疫情瑞德西韦用药的可及性有积极的作用。
Therefore, if Wuhan virus new indication of the application can be authorized, the current outbreak of Rhetsevir drug accessibility has a positive effect.
如果武汉病毒所申请的主题是瑞德西韦针对本次疫情的特定2019-nCoV的制药用途，那么一旦获得授权，就取得了与吉利德交叉许可（交叉许可是指双方将各自的专利权、商标或专有技术使用权相互许可，供对方使用）的可能，有了药物使用的部分话语权。
If the Wuhan virus is applied for a specific 2019-nCoV pharmaceutical use by Rhetsevier for the current outbreak, then, once authorized, a cross-license with Jilid (where both parties license their patents, trademarks, or proprietary rights to each other for use) is possible, with a part of the voice of drug use.
作者：审查员小姐姐编辑：odette、Cloud本文来自果壳，未经授权不得转载.如有需要请联系sns@guokr.com。
Author: Censor sister editor: Odette, Cloud This article is from the shell and cannot be reproduced without authorization. If necessary, please contact sns @ guokr.com.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉病毒所能获得瑞德西韦专利授权吗？专利审查员这样看。
Can Wuhan Virus get a patent license from Rhetsevier? Patent Examiner sees it that way.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "果壳";。
Var nickname = & quot; fruit & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉病毒所能获得瑞德西韦专利授权吗？专利审查员这样看";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Has Wuhan virus been granted Rhettiver's license? Patent examiner saw it at & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "瑞德西韦治愈了一例新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例，现被武汉病毒所“抢注”？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Rhetsevir has cured a confirmed case of new coronavirus pneumonia and is now at the service of Wuhan virus.
var title ="果壳";。
var title = & quot; fruit & quot;;
