疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动。
People not seen in the outbreak of the crisis: Wuhan surrounding the city people's self-help action.
关心武汉周边的。
Concerned about the surrounding Wuhan.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
新型冠状病毒疫情像是一场突如其来的阴霾，在这个冬天笼罩了华中大地。
The new coronavirus outbreak looks like a sudden haze that has engulfed central China this winter.
相较于最受关注的武汉市民，周边城市的人们，像是处在阴霾边缘，遭受侵袭，却又不常被看见。
Compared to the most concerned Wuhan city people, the surrounding cities, like the edge of the haze, are attacked, but are not often seen.
面对重重困难，孝感、黄冈、黄石、信阳、荆州、天门……各个城市的百姓们，开始了一场驱散阴霾的自救行动。
In the face of many difficulties, filial piety, Huanggang, Yellowstone, Xinyang, Jingzhou, Tianmen... people in every city began a self-help action to dispel the haze.
···············❶“需要支援“离家出门时，父母已经睡下了，心虚的李芳在关上门前对父母喊了一声：爸、妈，我回医院了。
A Need for SupportionWhen he left home, his parents had already gone to bed, and Li Fang, an empty-hearted man, shouted to his parents before shutting the door: Dad, Mom, I went back to the hospital.
父母惊醒，问她：是所有人都回医院还是你一个人回？她答：很多人都被紧急召回了，我走了啊。
The parents woke up and asked her, "Is everyone back to the hospital or are you alone?" She replied, "A lot of people have been recalled in an emergency.
没等父母回复，她关上房门走了。
She shut the door before her parents answered.
李芳撒谎了，那天是腊月二十九。
Li Fang lied. It was the 29th of December.
晚上23:27，荆州中心医院的护士李芳接到护士长的微信通知：疫情严重，是否愿意回医院值班支援？她立刻回复：好的，今晚就回。
At 23: 27 p.m. Li Fang, a nurse at Jingzhou Central Hospital, received a letter from the head nurse informing her that the outbreak was serious and that she would like to go back to the hospital for on-duty support.
几分钟后她发了一条朋友圈，询问是否有朋友从洪湖前往荆州，可否顺路捎她一段。
A few minutes later she sent out a circle of friends to ask if anyone was travelling from Hong Lake to Jingzhou.
事实上，整个科室的护士都已经返乡，只有她一个人答应回院。
In fact, the entire department of nurses have returned home, she alone agreed to return home.
洪湖市距离荆州200公里，大约两小时车程。
Honghu City is 200 kilometers away from Jingzhou, about two hours' drive.
朋友圈无人回复，李芳找了弟弟帮忙。
Friends circle did not reply, Li Fang asked his brother to help.
许广高速上，弟弟驾着车，一路上反复追问李芳：“根本不是医院强制召集吧？是不是你自己要求回去的？”李芳没有正面回答。
Xu Guang on the highway, brother driving the car, repeatedly asked Li Fang along the way: "Is not the hospital forced to call it? Are you yourself asked to go back?" Li Fang did not answer positively.
弟弟板着脸，一路沉默。
My brother was silent all the way.
那个晚上，李芳的父母一夜没睡。
That night, Li Fang's parents stayed up all night.
湖北地图“谁不想在家过个好年。
Hubei map "Who do not want to spend a good year at home.
“五天后，李芳在电话里哽咽着说。
"Five days later, Li Fang choked on the phone.
因为接触过病人，她不能回家，内心对父母充满了歉疚。
Having come into contact with her patients, she was unable to go home and felt sorry for her parents.
事实上，从出门的那一刻她就意识到，这个春节绝不会如常了。
In fact, from the moment she left home, she realized that the Spring Festival would never be the same.
大年三十早上7:50分，李芳抵达医院的肿瘤病区。
At 7: 50 a.m. on New Year's Eve, Li Fang arrived at the oncological area of the hospital.
病房还没有彻底腾空，医护人员们穿梭在病房和楼层间，脚步匆忙。
The wards had not yet been fully emptied, and the staff shuttled between the wards and floors in a hurry.
没有人对接李芳。
No one docked Li Fang.
医生们只穿着一件手术衣，没有防护服。
The doctors were wearing only one surgical coat and no protective clothing.
值班的护士忙着打电话联系民间物资。
The nurse on duty was busy telephoning civilian supplies.
病房里只剩一副口罩、一副护目镜和一套防护服。
All that remained of the ward were a pair of masks, goggles and a suit of protective clothing.
医生们把这些装备让给了需要和病人密切接触的李芳。
The doctors gave up the equipment to Li Fang, who needed close contact with the patient.
他们提醒她，穿着要小心，下班时还要把防护服脱给下一班值班的护士。
They warned her to dress carefully and to take off her protective clothing at the end of the shift to the next nurse on duty.
武汉封城后，包括荆州、孝感、黄冈等16座湖北省内城市相继“被封”。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, including Jingzhou, filial piety, Huanggang and other 16 cities in Hubei Province were "sealed.
物资集中在武汉，周边县市不仅无法获得即刻支援，更因高速拦截使得民间物资亦无法及时抵达。
Materials are concentrated in Wuhan, surrounding counties and cities not only can not get immediate support, but also because of high-speed interception so that civilian goods can not arrive in time.
医院的工作群里气氛紧张。
There was a tense atmosphere in the hospital workgroup.
医生不停@医院管理层，“物资紧缺！需要支援！”但没有收到答复。
The doctor never stopped @ hospital management, "in short supply! Need support!" but did not receive a reply.
李芳的情绪开始激动起来，眼泪唰唰地流。
Li Fang's mood begins to excite, the Shua Shua Shua tears.
落泪有几层原因，一方面是害怕感染，内心焦急；另一方面，父母猜到了她是自愿回院，打电话令她回家。
There were several reasons for her tears. On the one hand, she was afraid of infection. On the other hand, her parents guessed that she was returning home voluntarily and called her home.
手机不停地振动，李芳不敢接。
The mobile phone keeps vibrating, Li Fang dare not answer.
下午3点至晚上11点，李芳要独自负责五层楼的病人。
From 3 p.m. to 11 p.m., Li Fang will be responsible for patients on the fifth floor alone.
夜班一共两名护士，另一名护士在护士站接电话调配物资，她没有防护服，见李芳忙不过来，也帮忙去病床铺了被子。
Night shift a total of two nurses, another nurse at the nurses station to deploy materials, she did not have protective clothing, see Li Fang busy, also to help bed spread quilt.
李芳需要什么用品，就距离五米开外大声地喊，物品从护士站丢过去，两人全程避免接触。
Li Fang needed what supplies, on the distance of five meters shouted, items from the nurses station thrown past, the two avoided contact.
一个人坐电梯往返于五层楼之间，病人难免等得急。
When a person takes an elevator between the fifth floor and back, the patient inevitably has to wait.
一个上了年纪的奶奶冲她吼，李芳的也大声地喊回去：真的不好意思！我没有在玩，你稍微等一下，我马上就来了！护目镜起雾，手套又厚，李芳对血管的判断不准了。
An elderly grandmother yelled at her, and Li Fang's yelled back: I'm really sorry! I'm not playing, just a moment, I'm coming! The goggles are fogging, gloves are thick, Li Fang's judgment of the blood vessels is inaccurate.
头两个病人被她扎破了血管。
The first two patients had their veins pierced by her.
有些病人来时已经几天没吃东西，血管都瘪了，更难扎针。
Some patients have not eaten for days and blood vessels have shriveled, making it more difficult to pin them.
李芳不停道歉。
Li Fang continuously apologizes.
“我真的看不见。
"I really can't see.
“大家都表示理解。
"Everyone understands.
一对年轻夫妻，坚持递些水果给她，她再三拒绝后，对方请求：那就喝口水吧！李芳还是拒绝。
A young couple insisted on handing her some fruit. After she repeatedly refused, the other party asked, "Drink!" Li Fang still refused.
她不敢吃喝，一旦要去厕所，防护服必须脱下来，有感染的风险。
She is afraid to eat and drink, and once to go to the toilet, protective clothing must be removed and there is a risk of infection.
“但那一瞬间很感动，我忘记了所有委屈和恐慌。
"But that moment was very moved, I forgot all the grievances and panic.
”九个小时后，李芳脱下医护装备。
"Nine hours later, Li Fang took off her medical equipment.
耳朵生疼，印着很多勒痕。
Ears hurt and there are lots of strangulation marks.
荆州的出租屋内，李芳不停地在手机上联系民间物资，密切地关注着同事们的储备。
In the rental housing in Jingzhou, Li Fang keeps in touch with civilian goods on his mobile phone and keeps a close eye on his colleagues' reserves.
她拆下了之前为了漂亮接上的长发，头发上都是没掉的胶水，粘成一坨。
She took off her long hair, which had been beautifully sewn up, and the glue that was still in her hair was glued together.
新型冠状病毒像是一场突如其来的阴霾，在这个冬天笼罩了华中大地。
The new coronavirus is like a sudden haze that has enveloped central China this winter.
相较于最受关注的武汉市民，周边城市的人们，像是处在阴霾边缘，遭受侵袭，却又不被看见，李芳就是其中之一。
Li Fang is one of the more concerned citizens of Wuhan city who seem to be on the brink of a haze and are not seen.
孝感、黄冈、黄石、河南信阳等各城市的人们，都在期待着阴霾的散去。
Filial piety, Huanggang, Yellowstone, Henan Xinyang and other cities, people are looking forward to the dispersion of the haze.
大年初一，对电梯间进行消毒的信阳市民❷“谁都难以相信那会是灾祸”河南省最南部的地级市信阳与武汉相邻，仅距离200公里。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, the citizens of Xinyang who disinfected the elevator turned out to be a disaster. Xinyang, the southernmost city in Henan Province, is only 200 kilometers away from Wuhan.
根据地方政府在24号发布的文件：截止到1月24日，武汉返乡人员全县共计1005人。
As of January 24, there were 1,005 returnees in the county in Wuhan, according to documents issued by the local government on the 24th.
这不是个小数字。
This is not a small number.
但截止到1月21日，信阳人郑晨从北京返乡时，途径信阳东高铁站、信阳汽车站和息县汽车站，一路上没有看到任何检查或标语。
But as of Jan. 21, Cheng Chen, a Xinyang resident, returned home from Beijing via Xinyang East High-speed Railway Station, Xinyang Bus Station and Xian-xian bus station.
在县城街上，“刚出门就碰到了三辆鄂A开头的车”。
In the county street, "just went out to meet three E-E beginning of the car."
回家的前一天，郑晨在北京公司和住所附近的药房已经买不到口罩了。
The day before returning home, Zheng Chen couldn't buy a mask at a pharmacy near her company and residence in Beijing.
她打电话给母亲，让她去买口罩和消毒液，母亲笑着说，哪有那么夸张？最后只好用她用下命令的口气：你需要去给我买口罩，我回北京也要用到。
She called her mother and asked her to buy a mask and disinfectant, but she laughed and said, "What's the big deal?" Finally she used her command tone: You need to buy me a mask, and I'll use it when I go back to Beijing.
只有这样说，才能说服母亲买回口罩保护一家人。
That is the only way to persuade the mother to buy a mask to protect the family.
郑晨回家之后，发现母亲买的两袋口罩不带有yy，gb 标识，她问了朋友，发现除医院有亲人的朋友外，大家都没有正规口罩，有人还戴着波点花纹的口罩去超市购物。
When Zheng Chen returned home, she found that her mother had bought two bags of face masks without yy gb badges. She asked her friends that they all had no formal masks except those with relatives in the hospital.
有市民跑遍全县药房都找不到带有“医用外科”或者“N95”字样的口罩，只能用一次性口罩替代。
Some residents ran around the county pharmacies can not find "medical surgery" or "N95" words of masks, can only be replaced by disposable masks.
因为河南省内多地积极落实防疫政策，甚至出现“封村”行为，网络上很多人在说河南硬核，“大家都来抄河南的作业”，郑晨却觉得纳闷：信阳没有拉横幅，没有落实到社区和乡村，也没听到大喇叭宣传防疫。
Many people on the network said that Henan hard core, "everyone came to copy Henan's work," but Zheng felt puzzled: Xinyang did not pull banners, did not reach communities and villages, and did not hear loudspeakers promoting immunization.
人们照常逛街，通往商场的路拥堵为患。
People go shopping as usual, and the road to the mall is congested.
到了24号晚上，信阳才通知排查、设卡，25日白天才开始施行。
In the evening of the 24th, Xinyang did not notify inventory, set up cards, 25 days before the day began to operate.
1月28日，空荡荡的信阳天润广场，平日里是信阳最繁华的商业区疫情能够将人们阻隔在家，却不能阻隔生活的热情。
On January 28, the empty Xinyang Tianrun Square, usually the most prosperous business district in Xinyang, can block people at home, but can not block the enthusiasm of life.
吕永洁的父母平日里在北京工作，有每天在公园跳舞的习惯。
Lu Yongjie's parents usually work in Beijing and have the habit of dancing in the park every day.
疫情发生后，夫妻二人各自换上衬衫、长裙，把沙发和茶几挪到一边，收拾出一片8平米的空地，关紧窗子避免噪音外露，拉上银色带闪片的窗帘，开着最亮的吊灯，配上音响，在家里跳交谊舞。
After the outbreak, the couple changed into shirts and long skirts, moved the sofa and coffee table aside, cleared an 8-square-metre open space, closed the windows to avoid noise exposure, drew up silver blinds, had the brightest chandeliers, and had a sound system for ballroom dancing at home.
他们让女儿用手机录下跳舞视频，要把这个视频发到北京跳舞的交流群里。
They asked their daughter to record the dance video on her cell phone and send it to a dancing group in Beijing.
Play吕永洁父母在家跳舞的视频更多人无法享受团聚。
More people are unable to get together in a video of her parents dancing at home.
信阳宣布封城的那天，李染得知身在武汉的妻子发烧了。
Xinyang announced the day of the city, Li dyan learned that his wife in Wuhan had a fever.
武汉于23日封城，已经来不及接出妻子，当天，李染回了老家天门市。
Wuhan on the 23rd of the city, has not enough time to take over his wife, that day, Li dyeing back home Tianmen City.
他不得不回忆起，12月下旬，他和妻子曾带高烧的女儿在武汉市中心医院输液一周。
He had to recall that, in late December, he and his wife had had a fever with their daughter during a week of infusion at Wuhan Central Hospital.
第七天离开医院时，他听说那里确诊了一例“不明原因肺炎”——那会是病毒肺炎吗？他选择安慰自己：去几次医院就感染？运气不会那么差。
When he left the hospital on the seventh day, he heard that there had been a confirmed case of "unexplained pneumonia" - would it be viral pneumonia? He chose to reassure himself that going to a hospital would infect him a few times.
大年初三，空荡荡的天门市陆羽广场妻子不敢贸然去医院，独自哭了很多次。
New Year's Day, the empty Tianmen City Lu Yu Square wife dare not rush to the hospital, crying alone many times.
她跟李染视频连线，谈起《鼠疫》里的情节，一开始只是死了几只老鼠，没有人在意，直到门房老头死去。
She and Li Dye video link, talking about the Plague plot, at first just a few mice died, no one cared, until the old porter died.
看到那里，仍在发烧的妻子觉得悲伤压抑。
Seeing there, his wife, still feverish, felt sad and depressed.
李染则想起书中的一句话：“天灾人祸本是常见之事，然而当灾祸落在大家头上时，谁都难以相信那会是灾祸。
Li Dan recalls a saying in the book: "Natural and man-made disasters are common, but when disaster falls on people, no one can believe that it will be a disaster.
”江门市的主街道空空荡荡。
The main streets of Jiangmen are empty.
大年初三，李染想为支气管肺炎的4岁女儿买些止咳药，没有一家药店开门。
On the third day of the year, Li dyan wanted to buy some cough medicine for her 4-year-old daughter with bronchopneumonia.
天门看起来像一座死城。
The gate looks like a dead city.
好消息是，妻子退烧了。
The good news is, my wife has a fever.
妻子在电话里告诉他，微信群里有人要求湖北人不要出来害人。
His wife told him on the telephone that people in the micro-letter group asked Hubei people not to come out to harm people.
一向开朗的李染变得异常愤怒：“难道这些开‘地图炮’的人还能限制我们自由行动的权利？”可人们的恐惧是真实的。
Li, who has always been cheerful, became furious: "Can the people who make the map gun restrict our right to move freely?" But the fear is real.
回到天门那天，父母退休前的原单位对从武汉返乡的他做了登记。
On the day of his return to Tianmen, his parents' former unit registered him as returning home from Wuhan.
就连表弟也对他开玩笑：“你太危险了。
Even my cousin joked at him: "You're too dangerous.
”没有人要求他隔离，但与外人碰面时，他会自觉地戴好口罩，以免让别人感到异样。
No one asked him to keep him isolated, but when meeting outsiders, he would voluntarily put on a mask so that no one else would feel differently.
困在家里，李染发现自己远离了“日常生活的摧残”，竟然重新拾起了一点诗意。
Trapped at home, Li found himself far from the "destruction of daily life," unexpectedly picked up a bit of poetic.
他开始抄诗，教女儿背诗。
He began to transcribe poems and teach his daughter to recite them.
“黄鹤楼中吹玉笛，江城五月落梅花。
"Yellow Crane Tower blowing jade flute, Jiangcheng in May fell plum.
”在他的人生里，文学从未显示过这样的份量。
Never in his life had literature displayed such weight.
困在家中，李染决定抄诗，抄完就教女儿背诵他愿意用加缪的话来总结这一切：“我并不期待人生可以过得很顺利，但我希望碰到人生难关的时候，自己可以是它的对手。
Stuck at home, Li decided to copy poetry and then taught his daughter to recite all this in Camus's words: "I don't expect life to go well, but I wish I could be its adversary in the rough times of life.
”❸无法置身事外等到察觉到阴霾已经来临的时候，很多人开始意识到，自己已经无法置身事外。
When the dark cloud came, many people began to realize that they could not stay out of it.
“这几天看到太多网络求救，我都不知道该先救自己还是先救别人。
"I've seen too many online calls these days and I don't know whether to save myself or anyone else first.
”身在兰州的李玉接到了父母的电话，84岁的爷爷一直在洪湖市人民医院的ICU病房，1月27日下午，医院下达了病危通知。
Li Yu, who was in Lanzhou, received a telephone call from his parents and his 84-year-old grandfather was in the ICU ward of the Honghu People's Hospital, where he was notified of his critical condition on the afternoon of January 27.
李玉在微博上写道：“相比武汉很多得不到治疗的人来说，我爷爷能够隔离已经是幸运。
"Compared with many untreated people in Wuhan, my grandfather was lucky to be able to isolate," Li wrote on Weibo.
“可她同时也感到无力。
"But she felt weak at the same time.
截至1月28日，老家洪湖市只有3个ICU床位，没有一台心肺体外循环仪（ECMO），也没有会操作这个设备的医护人员，这是重症病人的救命装置。
As of January 28, there were only three ICU beds in his hometown of Honghu, none of them a cardiopulmonary bypass (ECMO) and no medical staff capable of operating the device, which is a life-saving device for critically ill patients.
更令李玉感到担忧的是，整个洪湖市没有冠状病毒试剂盒，疑似病人无法确诊。
Li Yu is even more worried that the entire city of Honghu no coronavirus kit, suspected patients can not be diagnosed.
洪湖市的新型冠状病毒防控宣传车在湖北省的疫情实时动态中，截至发稿时，洪湖市共确诊8例——几天前确诊数还是0。
A New Coronavirus Propaganda Car in Honghu City In the real-time dynamics of the epidemic in Hubei Province, by the time of writing, eight cases had been confirmed in Honghu - 0 a few days ago.
等待确诊的时间里，大批发热的疑似病人聚集在医院，一名高度疑似病人已于27日晚上逝世。
Waiting for the diagnosis, a large number of febrile suspected patients gathered in the hospital, a highly suspected patient died on the night of 27.
物资告急的情况下，很多医生几乎零隔离地接触病人。
In case of emergency, many doctors are in almost zero-isolation contact with patients.
在这个冬天，冷风吹进了许多人的心里。
In the winter, the cold wind blew into many people's hearts.
身在黄冈市的孟梅在第二人民医院的门口等待转移车辆。
Mengmei, who is in Huanggang, is waiting for a transfer at the gate of the Second People's Hospital.
她的父亲在确诊后被防疫指挥部通知，需要转移至新建立的传染病医院救治。
Her father was notified by the Preventive Command after the diagnosis that he needed to be transferred to a newly established hospital for infectious diseases.
大年初一，从晚上八点半到次日凌晨0点27分，她等了四个小时才坐上转移车。
On New Year's Day, from 8: 30 p.m. to 0: 27 a.m. the next day, she waited four hours before getting on the transfer.
临行前，她询问医务人员：父亲尚未脱离危险期，生活不能自理，在新医院能否得到顺利救治？对方安抚她，“都安排妥当了。
Before her departure, she asked the medical staff: "Father is not out of danger, life can not care for themselves, in the new hospital can be smooth medical treatment?
就是病患不能自理需要家属陪护。
The patient is unable to look after himself and needs family support.
”她又问，家属陪护如何能避免交叉感染呢？中心医院答，一切都有安排。
She also asked how family support could help prevent cross-infection.
下车后，眼前的场景令她紧张：医院设施简陋，满地乱丢的垃圾，灰尘、废纸、带血的胶带，以及随处堆积的医疗用品。
As she got off the bus, she was nervous about the hospital's poor facilities, litter, dust, waste paper, bloody tape and medical supplies piled up everywhere.
没有电梯，她与医护人员合力把父亲的担架抬到三楼病房。
There was no elevator and she worked with paramedics to carry her father's stretcher to the third floor ward.
周围病床的老人歪歪地躺在床上，没有戴口罩。
The old man in the bed around him sprawled on the bed, not wearing a mask.
善良的小护士用奇怪的语气问她，“只戴口罩不怕传染吗？”又看了一眼在病床上正被吸氧鼻饲的老父亲，“怎么被转移到这里了？”孟梅这才明白，这里并不具备治疗这类病危病人的医疗条件。
The kind nurse asked her strangely, "Wearing only a mask is not afraid of infection?" Then she glanced at her old father, who was being fed by oxygen in his hospital bed.
1月23日，武汉汉口火车站，工作人员正在捆绑栅栏。
At Wuhan Hankou Railway Station on January 23, workers tied up the fence.
（红星新闻首席记者 王效 摄）同样感受到困惑、焦躁、疲惫的，还有孝感市大悟县26岁的李娟。
(Wang Xiaosheng, chief reporter for Red Star News) also feels confused, agitated, tired, and 26-year-old Li Juan in Dawu County, Xiaogan City.
起初，孝感市没公布确诊和感染病例的数据，李娟感觉“很惶恐”，在家里不断拿手机刷新闻。
Initially, filial piety city did not publish the diagnosis and infection case data, Li Juan felt "very scared", in the home constantly brush the news mobile phone.
公布后，孝感市的数据又没武汉数据更新得快，更不提孝感市下的大悟县了——她仍然感到不安。
After the publication of filial piety city data and Wuhan data update faster, not to mention Xiaogan City under the Wuxian - she is still uneasy.
电视机上县城电视台字幕滚动播放疫情信息，楼下街道上，循环广播疫情信息的车一会儿就驶过一次。
TV subtitles on the county television broadcast epidemic information, downstairs streets, circular broadcast epidemic information of the car in a moment.
长时间在手机上刷新闻带来了疲惫，再多的讨论都显得无效。
Brushing the news on the phone for a long time has led to tiredness, and no amount of discussion seems effective.
她索性放下手机，暂时不管了。
She simply put down her cell phone and left it alone.
❹环武汉告急武汉周边的黄冈市蕲春县是省内医疗物资最为欠缺的地区之一，也是一个国家级贫困县。
The Huanggang Agkistrodon Agkistrodon county around Wuhan is one of the most deficient regions in the province and is also a state-level poverty county.
与此同时，该县的武汉流入人口极大。
Meanwhile, Wuhan in the county has a huge influx of people.
黄冈市于1月23日起封城，蕲春县也随之封锁。
The Agkistrodon acutus was closed down on January 23, and the Agkistrodon County is also closed.
次日，县医院就发布了接受社会爱心捐赠的公告。
The next day, the county hospital issued a public announcement of acceptance of charitable donations.
全县15个乡镇的卫生院里，疑似病人相继出现。
Suspected patients have appeared in 15 township hospitals across the county.
医生穿着一次性雨衣，戴着摩托车头盔给病人做检查。
The doctor examined the patient in a disposable raincoat and a motorcycle helmet.
GQ报道致电县医院公共卫生科的袁科长，询问该院是否欠缺物资，对方表示不便接受采访，但如果有物资捐赠，“我们是需要的。
GQ reporter called the county hospital public health section chief Yuan, asked if the hospital is short of supplies, the other side said the interview, but if material donations, "we need.
”黄冈市民张彦文在北京一家公司当产品经理，单位目前还没通知他多久返工。
Robin Zhang of Huanggang, a product manager at a Beijing company, hasn't been told how much time to rework.
他不知道武汉封城得到什么时候。
He did not know when Wuhan had been closed.
武汉向来是周边城市的交通枢纽，只要武汉封城，他就很难去省外其他城市。
Wuhan has always been the transportation hub of the surrounding cities, as long as Wuhan sealed, it is difficult for him to go to other cities outside the province.
无论是做火车还是乘飞机，他都要从武汉出发。
He will start from Wuhan, whether by train or by air.
但如果单位要求返工怎么办？他想了想：“我如果要走，可能会想办法坐车去邻省，再想办法回北京。
But what if the unit asks for rework? He thought to himself, "If I want to go, I might try to take a bus to a neighboring province and try to get back to Beijing.
”1月23日，9时39分的汉口火车站，人头攒动。
On January 23, at 9: 39 a.m., Hankou railway station was teeming with people.
大量原本今日踏上回乡旅途的旅客手持行李和包裹，聚集在广场上。
A large number of passengers who were on their way home today gathered in the plaza carrying luggage and parcels.
（来源：澎湃新闻）阴霾笼罩之下，一些不愿意被其控制命运的人们，开始尝试自救。
(www.51education.net) Under the shadow of the storm, some people who did not want to be in control of their destiny began to try to save themselves.
1月20日晚九点，钟南山接受央视采访，肯定了新型冠状病毒存在人传人的特性，事后证明这是此次疫情防控的转折点，以武汉为中心向外扩散，周边城镇的大小医院迎来了大批人流。
January 20 evening, Zhong Nan Shan CCTV interview, confirmed the existence of the new coronavirus human-to-human characteristics, after the event proved that this is the turning point of the epidemic prevention and control, Wuhan as the center of the spread of the surrounding towns and hospitals welcomed a large number of people.
第二天，湖北省荆门市某县城人民医院人流激增，放射科技师张晓艾从业两年，几乎没有遇到过积攒病人的情况，但那一天，“我们这样的小医院，下班之后还有50个病人没有做CT。
The next day, traffic surged in a county hospital in Jingmen, Hubei Province. Zhang Xiaoai, a radiologist, practiced for two years and almost never had to accumulate patients.
”当试剂盒尚未到位、确诊流程繁复，血常规和肺部CT扫描成为了筛查疑似病例的首要环节，疫情中异常紧张的人们，通过这两项检查才能消除心中疑虑。
When test kits are not in place and diagnostic procedures are complicated, routine and CT scan of the lungs become the first steps in screening for suspected cases, and these two tests can reassure people who are extremely nervous about an outbreak.
于是从那天开始，放射科做肺部CT扫描的人流最多时达到了平日的两到三倍，“从武汉回来的人，有轻微咳嗽症状的人，之前被确诊为普通流感的人，甚至毫无症状只是忧心忡忡的人，保险起见，都会过来做个CT。
From that day on, the number of people who had received CT scans of the lungs in the radiology department reached two to three times as many as usual. Those who returned from Wuhan, those with mild cough symptoms, those previously diagnosed with the common flu, and even those with no symptoms but worry, would come over for a CT scan
”为避免交叉感染，医院把仅有的两台CT机分出一台给到发热门诊。
To avoid cross-infection, the hospital detached one of its two CT machines to a fever clinic.
除夕一大早，回到孝感老家的张晓艾打开科室微信群，看到同事从前一天早上八点一直忙到了凌晨四点，做了400多个CT扫描，科室缺人倒班，她决定放弃假期，提前回去。
Early New Year's Eve, back home Xiaoai Xiaoai opened the office micro-credit group, see colleagues from 8 a.m. to 4 a.m., more than 400 CT scan, departments lack staff, she decided to give up vacation, early return.
医生们采用临时措施应对物资紧缺此时孝感封城的消息沸沸扬扬，火车和大巴都已停运，张晓艾只得求助父亲开车送她回医院。
Doctors responded to the shortage of supplies at this time of filial piety rumble, train and bus have been stopped, Zhang Xiaoai had to resort to his father to drive her back to hospital.
“如果你不是这个职业，我不会去送你的”，两个多小时的车程，父亲只说了这一句话。
"If you weren't a professional, I wouldn't give you a ride," he said, more than two hours' drive away.
初三这天，张晓艾接到一个病患，一位微胖的中年男人，穿着防护服，戴着N95口罩，口罩外面还套着普通口罩，另外鞋套、手套全方面保护，几乎达到了医务人员的防护标准。
On the third day of the day, Zhang received a patient, a fat middle-aged man in protective clothing, wearing a N95 mask, wearing a mask outside the ordinary mask, as well as shoe cover, gloves in all aspects of protection, almost met the standards of medical protection.
他先去做了检查，结果是没有任何症状，不发烧也不咳嗽，但他坚持要做个CT。
He went first and had no symptoms, no fever or cough, but insisted on a CT scan.
“按照我们的要求，不发热的得去住院部做，但他穿成那样子之后，住院部的人都不敢给他做了，让他来我们发热门诊做，就怕出现感染。
"We asked him to go to the inpatient department without a fever, but after he dressed like that, the people in the inpatient department didn't dare to do it for him.
”还有一些人，在积极自救的同时，还努力试图去影响帮助身边的人。
Still others, while actively trying to help themselves, try to influence the people around them.
面对这场疫情，武汉大学电气与自动化学院辅导员王静最初就保持着一种高度的警惕心。
Faced with the epidemic, Wuhan University College of Electrical and Automation counselor Wang Jing initially maintained a high level of vigilance.
疫情爆发之前，她在微信上和医生朋友聊天，他们告诉她，临近春节他们还要加班，连轴转，医院医疗物资也有点紧张。
Before the outbreak, she talked to doctors and friends on a microphone. They told her they would have to work overtime, work around the clock and strain hospital medical supplies in the run-up to the Spring Festival.
在朋友的只言片语中，王静感受到了危险。
In the words of a friend, Wang Jing felt the danger.
腊月二十九，王静一家人驾车从武汉回到黄石，态度严肃地召开了一场家庭会议，向父母梳理了疫情来龙去脉，反复强调病毒的潜伏期很长，有14天，潜伏期也会传染，决不可掉以轻心。
On the 29th of December, Wang Jing and his family drove back to Huang Shi from Wuhan. They held a family meeting in a serious way to tease out the disease to their parents.
隔离在家里的这些天，她的手机不时弹出新的QQ消息，”二班安全！“”十班全员平安！”“三班平安！”.....王静在学院QQ群里每日询问学生的情况学生回复的消息之上，是王静每天必发的一条消息：“请各位同学坚持每日一报，尤其是发热状况，一定要及时通报。
Isolated in the home these days, her mobile phone from time to time pops up new QQ message, "Class 2 safety!" "Class 10 safe!" "Class 3 safety!"
”截至28日，王静所负责的370名武大学生中，没有一例异常。
As of April 28, none of the 370 university students under Wang's charge had been abnormal.
根据大数据显示，武汉封城前，500万人离开了武汉，其中绝大部分流入湖北省内的县市。
Five million people left Wuhan before the city was sealed, with the vast majority flowing into counties and cities in Hubei province, according to big data.
入汉打工的许多年轻人试图逃脱武汉这座危城，却逐渐意识到自己走入了更深的阴霾之中。
Many of the young men trying to escape the dangerous city of Wuhan have gradually realized that they have entered a deeper haze.
孝感市民左杰原本以为，回到汉川老家的农村便可以在这非常时刻暂获一点安心。
Filial piety city Min Zuojie originally thought, returns the Han Chuan native countryside may be able in this very moment temporary relief.
但他很快发现，仅有二三十人的村庄情况也并不乐观。
But he soon discovered that the situation was not good in villages with only 20 or 30 people.
回乡途中，他看见人们还是互相串门，路上能看到的车几乎都是武汉牌照。
On his way home, he saw people still visiting each other, almost all the cars on the road were Wuhan plates.
孝感是距离武汉最近的地级市，其辖区汉川市距离武汉最近，平日有大量人口流入武汉。
Filial piety is the closest to Wuhan city, its jurisdiction Han Chuan city is closest to Wuhan, usually a large number of people into Wuhan.
疫情爆发后，又有大量人口流回汉川，县城药店的口罩已经售罄。
After the outbreak, a large number of people back to Hanchuan, county pharmacies have sold out of masks.
形势同样严峻。
The situation is equally grave.
左杰所在的村庄农历鼠年大年初一，左杰与父亲爆发了一场争吵。
Zuojie's village Lunar New Year's Day, Zuojie and his father broke out a quarrel.
孝感农村有一风俗：有老人前一年去世了，次年大年初一上午，所有亲朋好友都将聚集在死者后人家里进行一个仪式，给老人上香，并燃放鞭炮、一起聚餐，以表达对逝者的最后追忆。
On the morning of the New Year's Day, all relatives and friends will gather in the families of the deceased for a ceremony to give incense to the old man and set off firecrackers and dine together to express the last memory of the deceased.
俗称“兴香”。
Known as "Xingxiang."
在当地人眼中，“兴香”比串门拜年和初一上坟更为隆重，一则意味着对逝者的送别与思念，更是对逝者后人的安慰与尊重。
In the eyes of the locals, "Xingxiang" is more grand than visiting the New Year or the first day of the Lunar New Year.
父亲坚持要去给一户人家“兴香”。
My father insisted on giving a family a chance to thrive.
左杰阻止他，“疫情正严重，不能去人多的地方。
Zuo Jie stopped him, "the epidemic is too serious to go to many places.
”前一晚，他当着父母的面给对方家里去了电话，提出明天不去兴香，对方起初称没事，“大家都戴着口罩。
"The night before, he called the other family in front of his parents and offered not to go to Xingxiang tomorrow.
也没有外面回来的人。
There's no one out there.
”“我就是外面回来的，怕携带病毒。
"" I came back outside, afraid of carrying the virus.
“左杰说。
"said Zuo Jie.
对方这才应允。
The other party agreed.
父亲仍然坚持要去，母亲也生气地说，兴香的鞭炮放在家里，不吉利。
The father still insisted on going, his mother said angrily, Xingxiang firecrackers put at home, unlucky.
左杰在心里埋怨父母，“愚昧无知”。
Zuo Jie complains in the heart parents, "ignorant".
父亲反倒责怪他，“你太没人情味了。
"The father blamed him instead." You're too impersonal.
”农村的人际交往建立在人情上。
"Interpersonal contact in the countryside is based on human touch.
那一天，有其他家属取消了“兴香”活动，被长辈们一顿教训，称之为“不孝之子”。
On that day, other family members cancelled the "Xingxiang" activities, by the elders a lesson, called "unfilial son."
“真的很为难。
"It's really difficult.
”左杰无力阻止父亲。
"Zuo Jie was powerless to stop him.
只能在父亲回家后，用酒精为他里里外外消了毒。
Only after his father came home, alcohol for him inside and outside of the drug.
❺“病好了就能出去玩吗？”还有一些人，为了消除阴霾，经历了更为复杂的状况。
"Zen" sick can go out to play? "Others, to eliminate the haze, experienced a more complex situation.
26岁的林涵是恩施来凤县人。
Lin Han, 26, is from Enschleifeng County.
眼看武汉周边县城医院陆陆续续发布了求援公告，来凤县中心医院却没有动作。
Wuhan around the county hospital gradually issued a call for help announcement, Fengxian central hospital has no action.
林涵和朋友觉得自己应该为此做些什么。
Lin Han and his friends felt they should do something about it.
24日晚，两人写了一个文案，他们没有写公告的经验，仔细地写上：来凤县中心医院为此次疫情来凤县的唯一定点医院，仅三栋建筑，全体785名职工需要为来凤县33万人口负责——他们随后在淘宝上花了50块钱做成图片。
On the night of the 24th, the two men wrote a text that did not have the experience of making the announcement. They carefully wrote that the only designated hospital in Fengxian County was the Lai Fengxian Central Hospital, with only three buildings and 785 employees responsible for the 330,000 people in Laifeng County who then spent 50 yuan on Taobao for pictures.
凌晨两点左右，他们把图发在了微博一个求助信息汇总的评论里，并打算第二天就去找医院说明清楚情况。
Around 2 a. m., they posted a comment on Weibo's help-desk summary and plan to go to the hospital the next day to clarify the situation.
第二天九一早，林涵被医院宣传部的电话吵醒了，医院的宣传部请他和朋友赶紧过去。
Early the next morning, Lin Han was woken up by a telephone call from the Propaganda Department of the hospital.
一路上林涵和朋友的手机不断有电话打进来，有人质疑他，也有人说他和朋友在做诈骗，也有爱心人士打来教育他们。
Along the way Lin Han and his friend's mobile phone calls constantly, some questioned him, others said he and his friends are cheating, but also a loving person called to educate them.
这其中有一个好消息：仙桃那里有一批物资，可以捐助给他们。
Here's the good news: there's a supply of peach supplies for them to donate.
到了医院，院方告诉他们，私下用医院名义发表声明，不合规矩。
When they arrived at the hospital, the hospital told them that it was illegal to make a statement in private in the name of the hospital.
林涵觉得，领导都比较上年纪，可能不知道新媒体传播方式有这么大的影响力。
Lin Han thinks, the leader is older, perhaps did not know the new media dissemination way to have such big influence.
院方宣传科希望林涵和朋友写个声明，说明是民间爱心组织自发行为，不要用医院名义。
The Propaganda Division hopes Lin Han and his friends will write a statement that it is a spontaneous act of the people's caring organizations, not in the name of the hospital.
林涵和朋友照做了，发布声明称不再接受物资捐赠，并发给微博上的大V，请求帮忙澄清。
Lin and his friend followed suit and issued a statement saying they would not accept material donations and sent a large V on Weibo asking for clarification.
医院官方公告惊喜发生在当晚九点，人民日报转发了他们最初的求助信息。
The official hospital announcement took place at 9: 00 pm, and the People's Daily forwarded their initial message of help.
林涵将截图发给了院方领导，十分钟后收到回复，院方授权给林涵，可以由他们进行接洽，并给了邮寄地址。
Lin Han sent the screenshot to the leader of the hospital and received a reply ten minutes later. The hospital authorized Lin Han to contact him and gave him the address.
第二天上午，院方开车去仙桃，拉回了第一批物资，有2万个口罩和500套防护服——这批物资下午就投入了使用。
The next morning, the hospital drove to the peach and brought back the first supplies, 20, 000 masks, and 500 suits - supplies that had been in use since the afternoon.
回家之后，父母问林涵，为什么要发这样的消息，不要乱搞。
When I got home, my parents asked Lin Han why I had to send such a message.
“这不是你该管的事情，那是那些当官的人该管的。
"It is not your business; it is the duty of those who are in office.
”林涵说，我们这些平凡的人也可以做一些力所能及的事情。
"We ordinary people can do something within our power," Lin said.
在采访中，他特意说，来凤县一线医护人员领到的是工业用防护服，他们用塑料文件夹当眼罩，医用手术帽、护目镜、医用防护服依旧紧缺，希望能够得到外界更多支援。
During the interview, he said that front-line medical workers in Laifeng County had received industrial protective clothing. They were using plastic folders as eye shields. Medical surgical caps, goggles and medical protective clothing were still in short supply.
面对重重困难，仍有许多人相信，事情总会迎来转机。
Despite the difficulties, many people still believe that things will turn out all right.
黄冈市中心医院斥巨资修建的白潭湖新院区，原本将在五月迎来医患，现被临时征用为"黄冈小汤山"。
Ricky Whitehead Hospital, built at Huanggang Central Hospital, which was to have a doctor in May, was temporarily requisitioned as Rituoka & quot; Huang Tang Shan & quot;
在很多志愿者的帮助下，于1月27日正式启用。
With the help of many volunteers, it was officially launched on 27 January.
与此同时，武汉火神山与雷神山医院正在昼夜施工，深夜一点半，央视的直播间里，31万网友正在同时观看。
Meanwhile, Wuhan Fosen Mountain and Lei Shenshan Hospital are working day and night, 1: 30 in the middle of the night, CCTV's direct broadcast room, 310,000 netizens are watching.
黄冈市民陈勇正在妇幼医院的儿科病房内通过手机，默默关注着这一切。
Min Chen Yong in Huanggang City is a mother and child hospital paediatric ward through the mobile phone, silently watching all this.
提起白潭湖新园区，他充满信心：“那里是三甲医院的条件，病人转移进去后，疫情前期的无序和混乱应该会慢慢过去。
"It is the condition of Sanjia Hospital," he said. "When patients are moved in, the disorder and disorder in the early stages of the epidemic should dissipate.
”几天前的除夕夜，值班医生带着护士给每个在病房过年的孩子送了旺旺礼包。
On New Year's Eve a few days ago, the doctor on duty took the nurse and gave Wangwang gift packets to every child in the ward for the New Year.
陈勇的孩子于21日发烧，因为担心交叉感染，起初，陈勇夫妇决定在家自行退烧。
Chen Yong's children on the 21st fever, because of fear of cross-infection, at first, Mr. and Mrs. Chen decided to reduce their fever at home.
送至医院时，孩子已经双肺感染心跳过速，血氧始终在90左右徘徊，医生通知必须住院。
By the time they arrived at the hospital, the child had already had a double lung infection - tachycardia - and the blood oxygen was always around 90.
除夕之夜的黄冈妇幼医院妇幼医院里没有恐慌。
There was no panic in the mother and child hospital in Huanggang on New Year's Eve.
但恐慌一直在微信群里蔓延。
But panic has been creeping through the crowd.
那几天，大家戾气很重。
In those days, people were grumpy.
从21日至24日，市民们等待了四天，一例新确诊都没有出现。
From 21 to 24, citizens waited for four days, and none of the new cases showed up.
陈勇在班级群里发牢骚，受到了同学的批评。
Chen Yong grumbled in the class and was criticized by his classmates.
“现在一线的医生更需要积极的信息，他们心理压力太大了！”同学在一线做医生，精神压力已接近极限。
"Now the first-line doctors need more positive information, they have too much psychological pressure!" Classmates in the front-line work as a doctor, the mental stress is close to the limit.
陈勇觉得同学说的对。
Chen Yong thought his classmates were right.
他说服自己相信，一切都会慢慢好起来。
He convinced himself that everything was going to get better.
隔壁床带着孩子来看病的小夫妻是从巴河赶来。
The little couple who came next door with their children came from the river Ba.
孩子奶奶家在巴河，不在市区，姥姥家在本地，但是姥姥一家都在咳嗽，不敢去医院。
Grandma's house was in the river Ba, not downtown, and grandma's was in town, but the grandmother's family was coughing and did not dare to go to the hospital.
湖北封城16座，高速公路都被切断了。
Hubei closed the city 16, the highway was cut off.
这家人既不能出城去奶奶家，也不敢回姥姥家。
The family could neither go out of town to Grandma's nor go back to her house.
孩子的病慢慢好了，父母却不知道出院后能去哪里。
The child's illness slowly healed, but the parents did not know where to go after discharge.
新年的夜晚，街道上响起烟花和鞭炮声。
Fireworks and firecrackers were heard in the streets on New Year's Eve.
大人们不无忧心地关注着手机上一条条的新闻弹窗，如今外面动荡的世界只剩下这个小小的窗口，留给在医院度过春节的人。
Adults worry about the news window on the mobile phone, now the world outside the turmoil only left this small window, the hospital to spend the Spring Festival.
孩子们则更容易满足，下床走走就已很高兴。
Children are more content, and happy to get out of bed.
两岁的儿子正是能流利说话的时候，他问爸爸，病好了就能出去玩吗？❻“比创业时拼多了！”危急时刻，一些平日里不会显露出的利他精神被激发了出来。
When his two-year-old son was able to speak fluently, he asked his father if he was well enough to go out to play.
28日这一天，在深圳的孝感人郭飞直到下午六点都没来得及穿衣洗漱，坐在床上处理了几百个微信群里的上千条信息。
On the 28th, filial piety Guo Feifei in Shenzhen didn't have time to dress and wash until 6 p. m. He sat on his bed and processed thousands of messages from hundreds of micro-letters.
除夕，湖北多地封城，原本准备返乡的郭飞退掉了机票，约上同在深圳的两位弟弟一起吃年夜饭。
On New Year's Eve, Hubei many cities, originally prepared to return home Guo Fei returned the ticket, about the same two brothers in Shenzhen to eat Chinese New Year's Eve dinner.
当他刷着手机看到一线医生坚守工作岗位，正用泡面充饥，家乡孝感多个医院物资短缺等新闻，觉得这饭吃得不是个滋味，“非常揪心，武汉疫情严重，全国都知道，但孝感其实是武汉人口流出最大的一个城市。
When he brushed his mobile phone and saw the front-line doctor holding on to his job, he was starving himself with foam, feeling filial piety at home, and so on.
“晚上十点多，他决定做些什么。
"It was past ten in the evening and he decided to do something.
虽然没有医疗相关经验，但连续创业的他相信自己的组织架构能力，他先联系高中校友会，再通过朋友圈的二度人脉召集更多的人加入。
Although he has no medical experience, a serial entrepreneur believes in his ability to organize himself by contacting the Alumni Association in high school and enlisting more people through a network of second-degree friends.
五个小时后，群里已有一百多人，还联系上了几家医院的耗材科主任和海内外的几批货源。
Five hours later, more than a hundred people from the group had been contacted, as well as the heads of consumables at several hospitals and several shipments at home and abroad.
之后，他建立了四个小组， 分别负责物资信息寻找、物流分发、媒体宣传和财务公开。
He then set up four teams to look for material information, logistics distribution, media outreach and financial disclosure.
“跟创业一样，先摸清能力边界是哪里，能调动什么资源，再看怎么使这些资源得到最有效的使用。
"Like starting a business, figure out where capacity boundaries are, what resources can be mobilized, and how to make the most effective use of those resources.
”郭飞发起的“孝感肺炎自强自救”系列微信群组大年初一，孝感市副市长也入了群，发私信问郭飞，能怎么支持和配合？”后来我们运送物资进城需要的通行证，通过防疫部门来做的物资调配，包括联系医院等，都提供了很大的帮助。
"Guo Fei launched the series" Xiaogan pneumonia self-improvement self-help "series of micro-letter group, Xiaogan City deputy mayor also joined the group, sent a private letter to ask Guo Fei, can support and cooperate?
“郭飞说。
"said Guo.
初四凌晨，郭飞在群里发布公告，宣布停止募捐，之后的工作重心会逐步转向为政府的防疫指挥部提供货源信息和志愿服务，把接力棒交接给政府。
Early in the morning, Guo Fei in the group to announce the suspension of fund-raising, after which the focus will gradually turn to the Government's epidemic prevention command to provide information and voluntary services, the baton transfer to the Government.
“整体来说我们做的工作只能说是应急，千万别夸大，这是我一开始就明确的，从除夕到初三，先在工厂放假的关键几天把紧急的工作做好，这是我们民间组织灵活优势，但你想完全解决这个事情，第一得确保工厂产能充足，第二是交通物流通畅，这不是我们能做到的。
From New Year's Eve to the third day of the new year, to do urgent work well during the crucial days of the factory holiday. This is a flexible advantage for our civil society organizations. But you want to solve this problem completely.
”春节假期即将进入尾声，武汉电力企业的职工杨峥迫不及待地想回到岗位，接替同事的工作。
As the Spring Festival draws to a close, Yang Zheng, an employee of Wuhan Electric Power Company, can't wait to return to his post to take over from his colleagues.
虽然武汉封城了，但基础设施还是得一直保持运转，二十四小时三班岗。
Although Wuhan has been closed, but the infrastructure has to remain in operation, 24 hours three shifts.
留在武汉的同事只能超负荷工作，身在十堰老家的杨峥坐立难安。
Those who stay in Wuhan can only work overload, Yang Zheng in his hometown of Shiyan.
“我想回去帮他们。
"I want to go back and help them.
”郭飞组织捐赠的防护服，后背写上了加油鼓劲的语句而郭飞呢？从除夕夜到28日，加起来只睡了十个小时。
Guo Fei donated protective clothing with cheering words on the back and Guo Feifei slept 10 hours from New Year's Eve to the 28th.
他把这些微信群命名为“孝感肺炎自强自救群”，目前共筹集1万件防护服，10万件口罩等物资。
He named the groups "Xiaocuo pneumonia self-improvement self-help groups," a total of 10,000 protective clothing, 100,000 masks and other materials.
“比创业时拼多了！”一天，志愿者发给郭飞一张照片：一位医务人员穿上了“自救群”提供的防护服，偷偷在身后用马克笔写上了一行小字——“希望在前方”。
One day, volunteers handed Guo a picture of a medical worker wearing protective clothing provided by the Self-Help Group and surreptitiously wrote a small line behind him with a marker "Hope Before You.
（应采访对象要求，文中部分人名为化名）武汉周边城市的多家医院，仍有物资缺口，急需社会各界予以援助。
At the request of the interviewee, some people named as pseudonyms in Wuhan peripheral cities, there are still material gaps, urgently need assistance from all sectors of society.
如有援助捐赠意向，请您点击文末的阅读原文，查看各城市医院联系方式，与其取得联系。
If you are interested in donating aid, please click on the text at the end of the text to check the contact information of the city hospitals, contact them.
让我们一起帮助疫区百姓渡过难关！GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that can help prevent and treat the epidemic, please contact us at any time! Whether you are a health care worker, patient and family member, suspected patient, material supplier, transporter, volunteer, epidemic area service personnel, professional with knowledge of epidemic situation.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：卫诗婕、欧阳诗蕾、杜梦薇、王宇、戴敏洁、张洁琼编辑：何瑫、靳锦运营编辑：肖呱呱。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! Reply eggs backstage with the public, send you a colorful egg interview, write: Wei Shijie, Ouyang poem Lei, Du Mengwei, Wang Yu, Dai Min-jie, Zhang Jeong: He Tao, Jin Jin Operations Editor: Xiao Quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动。
People not seen in the outbreak of the crisis: Wuhan surrounding the city people's self-help action.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动";。
var msg _ title = & quot; people not seen at & quot; in & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“每个人都无法置身事外”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '我家离华南海鲜市场很近：返乡、封城、过年，一位武汉大学生的过去一周',。
My home is near South China's seafood market: home, town, New Year's Eve, and a Wuhan college student's last week or so.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '面对疫情压力该如何应对不良情绪困扰？来自北师大心理学部的专业建议',。
How did you respond to AT & amp; P's stress? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '10000个临时发往武汉的口罩',。
AT & P; 10000 temporary masks & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & Wuhan.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一份实时更新的新冠肺炎防护援助指南（官方信息、防护措施、援助渠道汇总）',。
A real-time update of its New Crown Pneumonia protection assistance guide (official information, protective measures, and a summary of aid channels) & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
