这次疫情对桌游行业影响有多大？ | 机核 GCORES 首页游戏资讯视频电台文章话题精选商店App登录机核。
What's the impact of the epidemic on the desktop industry? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
本文系用户投稿，不代表机核网观点 本文写于2020年2月27日新冠病毒的疫情牵动着全国上下每个人的心，从前不久的桌游行业的义卖活动能看到桌游行业也在为这场抗疫之战而尽力。
This article is written by users, do not represent the views of the nuclear network This article is written in February 27, 2020 the new crown virus epidemic affected everyone's hearts, from the recent desktop activities can see that the desktop industry is also fighting the battle against the epidemic.
不过，这场突如其来且无法预料的疫情的确给我们的生活带来了很多问题，甚至让很多行业在承受着每天不断增加的损失，这也是显而易见的。
But it is also clear that this sudden and unpredictable epidemic has caused so many problems in our lives that many industries are bearing increasing losses on a daily basis.
在此关头唯有团结一致，先战胜病毒也才有完全恢复和发展的机会。
At this juncture, only by uniting to defeat the virus will there be a chance for full recovery and development.
那么作为似乎比较小众的桌游行业，是否受到了这次疫情的影响呢？答案也是肯定的，今天的文章就让我们来看看这场疫情对桌游行业造成了哪些影响。
So has the tabletop industry, which seems to be relatively small, been affected by the epidemic? The answer is yes, and today's article looks at how the epidemic is affecting the desktop industry.
。
.
首先，销售购买受到影响。
First, sales purchases were affected.
就是作为消费者我们最容易感受到的问题：产品发货效率明显降低了。
It is as consumers that we most easily feel the problem: the efficiency of product delivery significantly reduced.
前不久参加桌游义卖的朋友们可能对此都有感触，有些购买的游戏至今尚未发货。
Some friends who joined the table-tennis bazaar not long ago may have been impressed, and some of the games purchased have not yet been shipped.
而这就是由于仓储和物流两个环节的人力受到疫情影响的原因。
This is due to the warehouse and logistics two links of human resources affected by the epidemic.
我们知道，虽然现在全国上下绝大部分省份已经开始复工复产，但由于疫情原因导致各个地区情况不同，可能有的地方并未出现确诊病例，但有的地方已经封城封村，加上之前许多跨省公路交通封闭，航班和火车减少停运，以至于每年春节后中国最重要的最基本的劳动力流转出现了严重的滞缓，虽然从国家到地方都在积极想办法加大解决问题的力度，增加举措，但由此带来的影响还是不可避免的，这就直接造成了物流快递人力严重不足，甚至还有一些封闭区域此时此刻还无法恢正常的复物流快递服务，所以我们购买的产品无法按时送达也就是很自然的事了。
Although the vast majority of provinces in the country have now resumed production, the situation varies from region to region due to the epidemic. There may be no confirmed cases, but the closure of some places and the closure of many inter-provincial road traffic.
与此同时，由于担心人员集中带来病毒的传播和感染，所以很多仓库都没有按计划恢复工作。
At the same time, many warehouses did not resume work as planned, owing to concerns about the spread and infection of the virus as a result of concentration.
这就让春节前各个厂家封存在仓库中的产品无法出库，这样也就根本无法发货，这就导致了下单付款后有的厂家迟迟无法发货的原因。
This makes the products stored in the warehouse before Spring Festival unable to go out of the warehouse, so there is no delivery at all, which leads to some manufacturers after the payment of the order.
当然，由于各地的仓库和物流渠道受到疫情的影响截然不同，所以不同地区的仓库和寄送情况也完全不同，这一点我想大家也都能理解。
Of course, since warehouses and logistics channels are very different from place to place because of the epidemic, warehouses and shipments vary greatly from place to place, and I think you can all understand that.
TIP：最近我注意到物流的效率已经慢慢恢复，这想必是和物流各个环节陆续复工人员的陆续增加的原因，因此也希望还没那道产品的小伙伴们不要着急，特殊时期，大家多多互相理解。
TIP: Recently I have noticed that the efficiency of logistics has been gradually restored, which must be the reason for the increasing number of workers coming back to work in the logistics chain.
。
.
其次，生产受到影响。
Second, production is affected.
在我以前的广播节目和文章里多次提到，中国对于全球桌游产业来说其实最重要的并非购买力而是生产力，相当大部分的桌游生产工厂都在中国，眼下也只有中国才有如此完善的生产供应链、相对较低的生产成本 和 大批量的熟练工人。
As I have mentioned many times in my previous radio programmes and articles, the most important thing for the global desktop industry is not purchasing power but productivity, with a significant portion of its desktop production plants in China, where only China now has such a sophisticated production supply chain, relatively low production costs, and a large number of skilled workers.
而这些工厂主要位于浙江、上海、广东和福建等南方沿海省份，和前面说到的情况一样，这些工厂同样受到疫情影响了恢复生产的计划。
The factories are located mainly in the southern coastal provinces of Zhejiang, Shanghai, Guangdong and Fujian, and, as mentioned earlier, they are also affected by the epidemic's plans to resume production.
本来春节就是工厂计划中的一个停工停产时期，但突发疫情让这个计划的停产时期被迫延长。
The Spring Festival was one of the shutdowns planned for the plant, but the sudden outbreak of the disease forced an extension of the shutdown.
由于这些工厂中的工人大多来自遥远的其他省份，所以由于交通和各地疫情状况不同造成工厂复工的最重要组成部分：工人，尤其是熟练工人数的不足，更何况即使能够回来复工的人员也先要完成复工的手续审批和隔离观察。
Since most of the workers in these factories come from distant provinces, the most important component of the resumption of work is the shortage of workers, especially skilled workers, due to differences in traffic and epidemiological conditions, especially those who are able to return to work.
因此，对于很多生产工厂来说出现货期延期的情况在所难免，对此有的客户能够理解和接受，但也同样会有客户出现撤单等情况让工厂产生损失。
As a result, for many production plants, delivery delays are inevitable, some customers can understand and accept, but there will also be customer withdrawal and other circumstances so that the factory losses.
另外，从国家角度来说要优先保障恢复的工厂势必和医疗防疫、生产生活紧密相关，要先解决当前疫情和人民的生活，这也是情理之中的。
In addition, from the point of view of the State to ensure the recovery of the factory is bound to be closely related to medical epidemic prevention, production and life, to solve the current epidemic and people's lives, which is reasonable.
不过，”桌游“并不在这个范围之内，因此要想复工，大概率下还是要靠各家工厂自己来积极想办法。
However, "table tennis" is not in this range, so to get back to work, the high probability still depends on the factories themselves to actively find a way.
关于这一点，我会在文章最后部分详细说到。
On this point, I'll go into more detail at the end of the article.
。
.
第三，港口运输受到影响。
Third, port transport has been affected.
作为世界工厂，中国的桌游厂家在生产出产品后，要面临的难题就是如何运出去。
As the workshop of the world, Chinese desktop manufacturers are faced with the difficult problem of how to ship out after they produce their products.
一般来说桌游产品从中国发往世界各地玩家手中主要依靠的运输手段还是海运，这是最经济的运输方式，以前在我们的播客节目”五魁首“中曾经介绍过从中国发出的桌游产品如何运到世界各地的例子。
In general, desktop products from China to players around the world rely mainly on maritime transport, which is the most economical mode of transportation. Previous examples of how desktop products from China have been shipped around the world have been shown on our podcast Five.
那么，既然是海运，就离不开港口，无论出关还是装船，都是有无数人在背后紧张工作和规划带来的结果，买方想早一点拿到商品，就需要从生产开始的一系列环节上每一环都提高效率才有可能实现。
So, since it is sea transport, it can not be separated from the port, whether the customs or the shipment, is the result of countless people behind the intense work and planning, buyers want to get the goods earlier, need to start from the production of each link in the chain of efficiency is possible.
但是，由于生产环节受到了影响效率降低之后，可能直接导致这些产品错过本来计划的装船时间。
However, as the production chain is affected by the reduced efficiency, these products may directly miss the planned loading time.
如果了解的朋友会知道，通过集装箱运输的商品并不是我们日常买东西发快递那么简单，随时包货随时发出，而是需要一个周期的提前计划和安排，一旦没能按计划装船，这艘船是不会等你的，因为货船停在港口里一天就是烧一天钱，只有装货启航才能赚钱。
If a friend knows that the goods shipped through container is not as simple as our daily shopping and express delivery, but needs a cycle of advance planning and arrangement, the ship will not wait for you once it fails to board the ship as planned, because the cargo ship in the harbor burns one day a day and can only make money by loading and sailing.
那么可想而知，国际货运不是公交车，一会就能发一班。
So you can imagine that international freight is not a bus, soon will be able to send a class.
相反，一旦错过一艘船就可能带来一些列的问题，要从头开始规划运输方案，重新找集装箱、找船、联系这边的仓库和目的地的仓库计划等等……这些远不仅仅是直接的经济损失，等多的损失了大量无形且宝贵的时间成本。
On the contrary, missing a ship can lead to a number of problems, starting all over again, looking for a container, finding a ship, connecting the warehouse on this side and the warehouse plan to the destination, etc. These are far more than direct economic losses.
TIP：其实整个国际货运会涉及的环节比我说的要复杂得多，有兴趣的朋友可以查找相关内容了解一下，就知道这里会带来多少问题了。
TIP: In fact, the whole international cargo transport will involve more complex than I said, interested friends can look up the relevant content to know how much problems will arise here.
。
.
第四，展会交流受到影响。
Fourth, the exhibition exchange has been affected.
就在我写文章前不久，日本传来消息，3月份的大阪GM桌游展确定取消。
Just before I wrote the article, news came from Japan that the March GM exhibition in Osaka would be canceled.
其实在疫情导致东京奥运会都岌岌可危的情况下，日本停办桌游展等各类展会还是正确的，但对桌游行业来说这的确是一个实打实的损失。
In fact, the outbreak of the Tokyo Olympic Games are in a precarious situation, Japan is right to stop holding exhibitions and other exhibitions, but this is a real loss for the desktop industry.
因为很多桌游厂商、设计师、出版商、销售商、玩家 都早在去年就已经规划好了这次展会形成，计划了要在展会上完成的交易目标、签约目标等等内容，要订好机票、住宿、和各种行程，提前生产出产品或样品，联系运输和仓储……这些前期工作也自然都随着展会的取消而付之东流了。
Because many desktop vendors, designers, publishers, distributors, players have planned for the exhibition as early as last year, planning to complete the trade goals, targets and so on, to book tickets, accommodation, and various itineraries, to produce products or samples in advance, to contact transportation and storage.
。
.
其实在此之前，疫情对桌游行业展会的影响就已经间接体现了。
In fact, before the epidemic on the desktop tourism industry exhibition has been indirectly reflected.
每年年初的德国纽伦堡玩具展，是全球桌游行业会集中参与的重要国际展会之一。
The annual Nuremberg Toy Show in Germany is one of the most important international exhibitions in which the global table tennis industry will focus.
在一位参展商的博客中，就看到他提及由于自己的合作方被隔离观察，导致无法参展，且本来计划用在展会上的最新样品也随之无法带到德国。
On one exhibitor's blog, he mentioned that he was unable to attend because his partner had been quarantined, and that the latest samples he had planned to use at the fair could not be brought to Germany.
于是，原本1月的工作计划需要推迟到3月，但在原本的计划里3月已经要开始给2020年美国GEN CON会场的版本进行生产了，如此一来可能一整年的计划全都受到影响。
As a result, the original January work plan had to be postponed until March, but the planned production of the 2020 version of the GEN CON site in the United States had already begun in March, possibly affecting the entire year.
。
.
第五，公司和店面运营受到影响。
Fifth, companies and storefront operations have been affected.
前面所有内容都会导致企业的生产、销售计划被影响，而这些影响带来的直接后果就是赔钱。
All of the above will lead to the production, sales plan will be affected, and the direct result of these effects is to lose money.
尤其是对于桌游行业来说，绝大多数从业者都是微小企业，自身相对抗风险能力低，能够用于应对突发事件的资金也不宽裕，一旦出版、生产、运输、销售中任何一个环节被延误都可能让资金吃紧，甚至资金链断裂，那么面临的恐怕也只有关门这个结果了。
Especially for the desktop industry, the vast majority of workers are micro-enterprises, their ability to combat risk is low, can be used to deal with emergencies, any delay in the publication, production, transport, sales of any link may lead to tight funding, or even the collapse of the financial chain, then the face of the consequences.
注意，这里说的是面对全球的桌游行业公司而言，在这个生产链条串接全球的时代，一处的突发情况所影响的很可能远远超出当地范围，更何况这次新冠疫情已经开始在全球出现。
In an era of global production chains, one sudden event is likely to affect much more than the local area, not to mention the fact that the new crown is beginning to spread around the globe.
当然“关门倒闭”这个说法的情况比较极端，但是整个行业要面对一个突然出现的困难阶段的准备是必须要做好。
Of course, the phrase "shut-down" is extreme, but the industry as a whole must be prepared for a sudden and difficult phase.
而对玩家来说和自己生活很接近的一部分，就是开在我们身边的桌游吧、剧本店、密室店、杀吧等等……严格来说所有实体娱乐行业都受到了相当大的打击。
A part of life that is very close to your life for the player is the table-games bar, the script shop, the back-room shop, the kill bar, and so on... strictly speaking, all the physical entertainment industry has been hit pretty hard.
但聚焦到桌游行业的店面大多没有太多流动资金可以救急，房租水电已经是一个重担，当本来一年里担当收入重任的春节假期变成了纯粹的燃烧房租，对很多店面来说这个打击都是致命的，据我所知全国各地都有很多店面关闭或转让的情况。
But most of the shops that focus on the table-games industry don't have much liquidity. Rents and water are already a burden, and when the Spring Festival, which was a year of heavy revenue, turns into a pure burning rent, the blow can be fatal for many stores, many of which I know have been closed or transferred across the country.
。
.
那么，该怎么办呢？面对新冠病毒这样的突发情况，作为一个个独立的个体的确可能一下感到束手无策，但俗话说”自立者人恒立之,自助者天助之“，坐等有人帮忙其实是最不可能的一个选择了，在力所能及的范围内很多桌游从业者都积极行动起来，自助助人。
In the face of an emergent situation like the New Crown Virus, it is possible to feel helpless as individuals, but as the saying goes, "Stand on your own feet and help yourself." Waiting for help is the last option.
开篇提到的桌游义卖活动，三十余万元捐给疫区前线是全体桌游从业者和玩家的心意，而对行业来说则有更多可以做的事情。
More than 300,000 yuan has been donated to the front line of the epidemic area for table tennis practitioners and players, and more can be done for the industry.
对于销售厂商来说，所有能够在线上展开的工作其实都没有停滞，物流发货也都随着仓储物流环节的复工在逐步恢复，情况从目前来看都在向着更好的方向发展。
For sellers, all the work that can be done online has not stopped, logistics delivery is gradually recovering with the resumption of warehouse logistics links, the situation is now moving in a better direction.
我采访了以KS为平台、欧美市场为主要目标的 果动方块 公司，春节后他们就采用远程办公的模式，将身处不同省份，甚至不同国家的员工通过网络办公平台联系起来。
After the Spring Festival, I interviewed Kodak Cube, a company whose main target is KS, which links employees in different provinces and even different countries through the network office platform.
并根据客观情况调整了工作计划，将那些暂时受到影响的环节例如涉及生产的环节优先级下调，提升在线就可以开展的工作优先级，保证整体项目的进度不会被落下。
The work plan has been adjusted to take account of the objective situation and to prioritize areas that have been temporarily affected, such as those related to production, in order to prioritize the work that can be done online, so that the overall project is not behind schedule.
另外我所了解到的 栢龙、米宝海豚、A社、游人码头、游卡、集石、弈乎、乐博睿、角杯等等也都采用了远程办公、调整工作计划等方式积极复工。
In addition, I have learned that Duncan Duncan, Mimbo Dolphin, A Society, Tourist Pier, Tour Card, stone gathering, game theory, Lobo Rui, corner cup and so on have also adopted telecommuting, adjustment of work plan and so on.
同时，应用众筹平台也是一个办法。
At the same time, using crowdfunding platforms is another option.
从摩点来看，众筹项目都并未因疫情而停滞，而且最近启动的几个项目都势头不错。
Crowdfunding projects have not stalled because of the epidemic, and several recently launched projects have gained momentum.
在对摩点的采访中了解到，目前摩点方面已经在根据疫情状况安排项目做一些合理的延缓发布，进行错峰，避免扎堆上线导致相互影响。
In the interview with Mo point, we know that at present, according to the epidemic situation of the project to do some reasonable delay to release, to avoid piling up on the line leading to mutual impact.
同时在政策上调整给予支持。
It is also supported by policy adjustments.
不过，由于前面提到的生产环节的影响，因此比起正在上线的项目来说，反倒是目前正进入生产阶段的项目会遇到更多困难。
However, because of the impact of the production chain mentioned earlier, projects that are now entering the production phase will encounter more difficulties than those that are going live.
因此，在这个特殊时期如果有项目遇到生产困难而造成了计划外的延期，还望玩家们能多多理解他们，项目方则应该尽量克服困难完成目标，只有有了大家相互之间的理解和支持，桌游众筹才能继续发展下去。
Therefore, at this particular time if the project encountered difficulties in production caused an unplanned extension, it is hoped that the players can understand them more, the project parties should try to overcome difficulties to achieve the objectives, only with mutual understanding and support, table-pickers can continue to develop.
那么遇到复工困难更大的生产厂商又该怎么办呢？为此，我采访了Panda和WinGo这两家国内玩家们最为熟悉的桌游生产商，令人高兴的是，从得到的答复来看，这两家厂商早就开始了积极地复工生产，并将防疫工作放在了第一位。
I interviewed Panda and WinGo, two of the most familiar table-games manufacturers in the country, and I was delighted to learn that the two companies had long been active in getting back to work and putting immunization first.
在复工前就做好了充分的复工生产预案，尽最大可能减少疫情带来的影响。
In the resumption of work before the full resumption of production plans to minimize the impact of the epidemic.
Panda方面按照深圳市政府要求对所有员工健康状况进行了记录和上报，并依据员工来自广东省内、省外不同的地区按照隔离要求进行隔离观察，隔离期满才能到岗上班。
Panda has recorded and reported the health condition of all employees according to the requirements of the Shenzhen Municipal Government, and conducted quarantine observation according to the requirements of the quarantine in different areas within and outside Guangdong Province before they can go to work after the quarantine period.
同时，按照预案明确了每个人的责任，专门成立防疫、宣传、消杀、应急、后勤等小组。
At the same time, in accordance with the plan to clarify the responsibilities of everyone, the establishment of epidemic prevention, publicity, eradication, emergency response, logistics and other groups.
并设立了复工生产和防疫的具体培训教育内容，其原则是“疫情防控措施未落实到位则绝不复工。
And set up specific training and education on the resumption of production and epidemic prevention, the principle is that "the epidemic prevention and control measures in place will never resume work.
”复工的员工每天也要两次量体，有健康情况可以及时应对。
Workers returning to work were also asked to measure twice a day for medical conditions that could be addressed in time.
身在惠州的WinGo则是当地首批复工的厂家之一，并且复工准备工作也是早在复工前一周就已经开始实施，从国内外采购了足够的防疫物资，并预备了专门个宿舍作为隔离室以便应对突发情况。
WinGo, based in Huizhou, was one of the first factories to resume work, and preparations began as early as a week before the resumption of work, sufficient supplies were procured from both home and abroad, and special dormitories were prepared for emergency situations.
当然，按照政府有关部门要求落实的复工和防疫内容更是一个都不能少，复工人员的上岗要求也都是严格按照政府要求执行，政府方面则有专人一对一地跟进复工审核，可以说也是在层层把关，层层落实之后才实现了复工生产。
Of course, in accordance with the requirements of the relevant government departments to implement the resumption of work and epidemic prevention content is indispensable, the resumption of workers are strictly in accordance with the requirements of the Government, the Government has a one-on-one follow-up re-audit, can be said to be layer after layer of implementation before the resumption of production.
不过，据我所知也的确还有工厂受到疫情影响尚未能复工生产，希望疫情能够早日结束，大家都能健健康康的生活。
However, as far as I know, there are still factories affected by the epidemic and have not been able to resume production.
相信这些困难和问题都是暂时的，只要团结一致，积极应对，一切都会好起来！。
Believe that these difficulties and problems are temporary, as long as the unity, positive response, everything will be all right.
