玩家 | 在武汉做志愿者的军情局局长 | 机核 GCORES 首页游戏资讯视频电台文章话题精选商店App登录机核人物玩家 | 在武汉做志愿者的军情局局长多保重，保护好自己和家人。
The Director of Military Intelligence, who volunteers in Wuhan, has been at the forefront of RMI's efforts to protect itself and his family by playing a volunteer role at Wuhan.
Dagou2020-02-11。
Dagou 2020-02-11.
本文系用户投稿，不代表机核网观点收听本文14:372月3日，石磊从武汉志愿者车队的群里知道了何辉去世的消息。
On July 3, 2007, Shi Lei learned the news of Ho Hui's death from a crowd of Wuhan volunteers.
何辉是志愿者车队的成员，一周前，大家就听说他发烧了，在家隔离，可能是感染了新型冠状病毒，又听说他在同济医院被确诊，得到了救治。
Ho Hui, a member of the volunteer team, heard a week ago that he had a fever, isolated at home, may be infected with the new coronavirus, and heard that he was diagnosed and treated at Tongji Hospital.
没想到这么快就走了，他才五十四岁。
I didn't expect to leave so soon. He's only 54.
群主说，咱们暂时停了吧。
And the lord said, Let us cease for a while.
没解释为什么，大家也清楚。
No explanation. Everybody knows.
群里的气氛有点沉重，大家讨论为何辉的家人募捐，后来说暂时不用了，可能有公益组织会跟进。
The atmosphere in the group a little heavy, we discussed why Hui's family fundraising, later said that temporarily not used, there may be a public welfare organizations will follow.
有人提议，等疫情过去后，咱们派代表去祭拜何辉大哥。
It has been proposed that we send representatives to worship Brother Ho when the epidemic is over.
后面两天，群里变得安静，不再有此起彼伏的接送信息，也没什么人说话。
Over the next two days, the group became quiet, there was no longer a flurry of messages, and no one spoke.
熟识的相互安慰两句，多保重，保护好自己和家人。
Familiar with each other to comfort two, take care of themselves and their families.
就算志愿者不当了，生活还得继续。
Life goes on, even if the volunteers aren't doing their job.
1去年十二月底，石磊在土耳其旅游，看到国内有报道，武汉华南海鲜市场发现不明原因的肺炎患者。
1 Shi Lei was touring Turkey at the end of December last year when he saw reports in China that people with unexplained pneumonia were found in the south China seafood market in Wuhan.
他是土生土长的武汉人，知道那家海鲜市场。
A native of Wuhan, he knows the seafood market.
那里就像动物园，什么珍禽异兽都有。
It's like a zoo. Any kind of animal.
回国后，一月中旬，石磊陪岳父去武汉协和医院看病。
After returning to China, Shi Lei accompanied his father-in-law to Wuhan Concord Hospital in mid-January.
医院里乌泱乌泱的人，很少有戴口罩的。
Resplendent man in hospital: Resplendent face mask.
那段时间，武汉卫健委每天通报，无新增新冠肺炎病例，未发现明确的人传人证据。
At that time, Wuhan health committee reported every day, no new cases of new crown pneumonia, no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.
大家也不怎么在意。
People don't care too much.
没人想到，病毒已经在人群里悄悄蔓延。
No one thought that the virus had crept into the crowd.
1月23日，武汉突然封城，有人赶在高速公路关闭前离开了武汉。
On January 23, Wuhan suddenly closed the city, someone rushed to the closure of the highway before leaving Wuhan.
石磊没想过跑路，“我的家就在这里，还能往哪儿跑。
Mr. Shi hasn't thought about running. 'My home is right here. Where else can I run?
”封城那天晚上，久未见面的老同学发了条朋友圈，招募私家车主，义务接送医护人员。
On the night of the closure, the old classmate, who had not met for a long time, sent a circle of friends to recruit private car owners to volunteer medical personnel.
石磊加了进去。
Stone has been added.
老同学的亲戚在医院工作，封城后，武汉的公交地铁全部停摆，通勤成为难题。
Old classmates' relatives work in the hospital, after the closure of the city, Wuhan's public transport all stop, commuting has become a difficult problem.
年前那几天，武汉很冷，阴雨连绵。
Wuhan was very cold and rainy those days ago.
没有私家车的医护人员，只能步行或骑车上下班，有人甚至骑十多公里的自行车。
Medical workers without private cars have to walk or ride bicycles to and from work, and some even ride bicycles of more than ten kilometers.
武汉本地一家叫做“善缘义助”的公益组织牵头，通过朋友圈和微信群征集义务接送医护的志愿者。
Wuhan, a local public-interest group called Good Relationship Relief, is leading a campaign to solicit volunteers for volunteer medical care through a network of friends and micro-groups.
口口相传，两天内，四千多私家车主报名加入。
Word of mouth, within two days, more than 4,000 private car owners registered to join.
石磊加的这个群，两百多人，什么职业都有，坐办公室的做美容的开酒吧的干房产中介的。
This group, which honors more than two hundred people, has all sorts of occupations, sitting in the office of the cosmetology of the dry real estate agent open a bar.
起初有点乱，都想出一份力，但都没有经验。
At first it was a bit of a muddle and all tried to make a difference, but none of them had experience.
很快形成一套行之有效的流程，群主负责对接医护与车主，将经核实有出行需求的医护名单整理成列表，包括姓名、电话、出发地、目的地、出发时间、有哪些保护措施等，发在群里。
A set of effective procedures was soon put in place, whereby group owners docked medical and car owners and compiled lists of health-care personnel whose travel needs had been verified, including names, telephone numbers, departure points, destinations, departure times and protective measures.
车主自愿接单，选择适合自己的接送对象。
The owner voluntarily accepts the order, selects the suitable transportation object.
任务完成后，再回群里报到。
When the mission is complete, report back to the group.
发热门诊和传染病门诊的医护人员，不在接送范围以内。
Heating out-patient and infectious disease out-patient medical personnel, not within the scope of transport.
一是因为很多私家车主并不具备完善的防护条件，接送存在风险；二是因为战斗在一线的医护大多无暇回家，就住在医院或附近宾馆，暂时没有接送需求。
First, because many private car owners do not have the perfect conditions for protection, there is a risk of transport; second, because most of the front-line medical care can not go home, living in hospitals or nearby hotels, there is no need for transport.
接送时，志愿者必须全程佩戴N95口罩，有条件的戴护目镜。
Volunteers must wear N95 face masks and goggles with appropriate conditions throughout the journey.
有些志愿者没有护目镜，拿泳镜代替，几趟车跑下来，眼窝周围勒出一圈红痕。
Instead of goggles, some volunteers ran down several trains with red marks around their sockets.
搭乘的医护也很为车主着想，戴口罩戴眼镜，坐后排座椅。
The hospital was also considerate of the owner, wearing masks and glasses and sitting in the back seat.
送车主一些小礼物，比如口罩和酒精喷壶等防护用品。
Give owners small gifts, such as masks and alcohol spray cans.
一大早搭车的医护，有的还会给车主捎早点。
Early morning hitchhikers, some will give the owner of the car to pick up early.
接送是免费的，车主自己贴油钱。
The pickup is free and the owner pays for it himself.
有人收到医护发来的微信红包，点开一看，两百块钱，赶紧退了回去。
Someone received a red envelope from the doctor, and when he looked at it, he returned with two hundred dollars.
石磊平时是话痨，他知道医护很累，路上也就不主动找他们唠嗑。
Shi Lei is usually a tuberculosis, he knows the medical care is very tired, the road does not actively seek them nagging.
上车下车时，彼此说一些安慰和鼓励的话，谢谢、加油、多保重、注意保护好自己。
As we got off, we said some words of comfort and encouragement to each other. Thank you, cheer up, take care of yourself and protect yourself.
群里有人专门负责运送物资，更辛苦。
There were men in the group who were responsible for transporting supplies.
一位开卡车的老哥，和妻子一起，一趟趟往医院拉货，吭哧吭哧地帮着搬上搬下。
A truck driver, together with his wife, once a trip to the hospital to pull goods, Chi Chi to help move up and down.
车主群之外，其他志愿者也自发行动起来。
In addition to the owners, other volunteers also took the initiative.
民宿业主免费提供医院周边可用于隔离的房间，饭店老板为一线医护人员免费提供餐饮，被困市内的“铲屎官”帮助被关在城外的人照看宠物。
Residential property owners provide free secluded rooms around the hospital, hotel owners provide free meals to front-line staff, and trapped city "shovelers" help keep pets away from the city.
大年夜，石磊打开电视，手机摆在面前。
On New Year's Eve, Shi Lei turned on the TV and set his mobile phone.
手机里，各个志愿者群不停地弹出求助和应答的消息。
On the phone, groups of volunteers keep popping up for help and answering messages.
电视里，播放的是各国人民庆祝中国新年的画面。
Television shows pictures of people from all over the world celebrating the Chinese New Year.
石磊觉得，自己所在的城市仿佛与整个世界割裂了。
Mr. Shi feels his city is cut off from the rest of the world.
2封城后的第三天，1月25日，武汉发布通告，次日零时起，除经许可的车辆外，中心城区实行机动车禁行管理。
On the third day after the city was closed, Wuhan issued an announcement on January 25, according to which, starting from 0000 hours the following day, motor vehicles would be banned from central city except for permitted vehicles.
晚上八点多，赶在禁行前，石磊去武鄂高速收费站接了一位同济医院的急诊科护士。
More than 8 p. m., just before the ban, Shi Lei went to the Hubei Expressway Toll Station to receive an emergency nurse from Tongji Hospital.
武汉紧急召回外地休假的医护人员，火车和长途大巴停了，高速公路上的车辆进不了武汉，需要志愿者开车将他们从高速入口接进来。
Wuhan recalled medical personnel on emergency leave, trains and long-distance buses stopped, the motorway vehicles can not enter Wuhan, the need for volunteers to drive them from the high-speed entrance.
这位急诊科护士是从七十多公里外的黄冈赶回来的，父亲开车把她送到收费站外面，她下车步行，石磊在收费站这边等着。
The emergency nurse came back from Huanggang, more than 70 kilometers away. Her father drove her out of the toll booth. She got out and walked.
她没拿什么行李，只背了个小双肩包，拎着塑料袋。
She didn't carry any luggage but a small shoulder bag and a plastic bag.
塑料袋里装的是吃的。
The plastic bags are filled with food.
石磊问，咱们上哪儿去，去你住的地方，还是去医院。
Where are we going, to where you live, or to the hospital, Mr. Shi asked.
她说，去医院。
Go to the hospital, she said.
然后又说，我估计很长时间都没法回自己住的地方了。
Then he said, I don't think I'll be able to go back to where I live for a long time.
女孩很年轻，一路上不停地问，到哪儿了到哪儿了。
The girl was young and kept asking her where she had been all the way.
她对武汉似乎不太熟悉，沿途的那些地标，长江二桥什么的，都不认识。
Wuhan does not seem to be familiar to her, along the way those landmarks, the Yangtze River bridge or other things, do not know.
石磊想，她可能平时太忙，没时间好好逛逛这座城市。
She may be too busy to take a good trip around the city, Mr. Shi thought.
问她接下去会怎么样，她说她也不知道。
Ask her what will happen next. She says she doesn't know either.
到了医院，女孩说，你别过去了，就把我放在这里，我自己走过去。
When we got to the hospital, the girl said, don't go over there. Just leave me here and I'll go there myself.
下车前，她从塑料袋里拿出一盒草莓，递给石磊。
Before getting out, she took a box of strawberries from a plastic bag and handed them to Shi Lei.
“今天谢谢您了，新年快乐，平安过个好年。
Thank you today for a happy New Year and a safe New Year.
我们同济护士还是会继续坚持在一线的。
We fellow nurses will continue to insist on the front line.
”女孩后来给石磊发了条消息，表示感谢。
The girl later sent a message of thanks to Shi.
“你们最最辛苦，代问您的所有同事新年好，你们加油。
"You the hardest, ask all your colleagues New Year, you refuel.
你们要保护好自己。
You have to protect yourselves.
一旦私家车解禁了，需要帮助就说。
Once the private car has been released, just say it for help.
”石磊回复道。
"Shi Lei replied.
“嗯，都会好起来的，记得保护好自己。
"Well, it's all going to be okay. Remember to protect yourself.
”女孩说。
"said the girl.
禁行后，群里不断有志愿者问，到底还能不能出车。
After the ban, the group continued to ask volunteers, after all, whether they can get out.
遇到交警可以当面解释，万一被电子眼拍到怎么办。
Encountered the traffic police can explain face to face, in case of being photographed by the electronic eye do.
后来得到的说法是，交管局会通过手机短信提前二十四小时告知被禁行的机动车车主，未接到短信通知的，可以继续上路。
Later, it was said that the agency would notify motoring owners of prohibited vehicles 24 hours in advance via text messages and could continue on the road if they did not receive a text message.
石磊没收到禁行短信，所以还在接送。
Shi Lei didn't get a text message, so he's still picking it up.
1月26日下午，他去儿童医院接了两位医生。
On the afternoon of 26 January, he went to the Children's Hospital to pick up two doctors.
下车前，医生送了他一瓶酒精喷壶。
Before getting off the bus, the doctor gave him a bottle of alcohol spray.
路上有交警设卡，把他拦了下来。
There was a police checkpoint on the road and he was stopped.
他解释自己是接送医护的志愿者。
He explained that he was a volunteer to take care of the patients.
测量体温后，交警劝他没什么事别出门，然后给他敬了个礼，放行了。
After taking his temperature, the traffic police advised him not to go out, then saluted him and let him go.
长这么大，石磊很少看到这么空旷的城市。
With so much growth, Shi Lei rarely sees such an empty city.
空荡荡的街上，只有警察、环卫、快递、外卖。
Only police, sanitation, express delivery, take-out are on the empty streets.
偶尔碰见几个出门采购的人，大包小包，装满家人需要的东西。
Occasionally met a few people out shopping, bags, filled with family needs.
群里有志愿者的车胎破了，蹲在路边换完胎，接着跑。
Some volunteers in the group had a flat tire, squatted on the side of the road and ran on.
大家都在以自己的方式，守护着留在这里的人们。
Everyone is in their own way, guarding the people who stay here.
3志愿者群平时不准聊天，谁聊，就会被骂。
Volunteers are not allowed to chat in normal times, who will be scolded.
闲的时候，也会聊两句。
In my spare time, I can have a chat.
有人说，咱们这算是生死之交了。
Some people say we are friends in life and death.
大家说，是啊是啊。
People say, yeah, yeah.
那位开酒吧的说，等疫情结束，我请大家喝酒，反正后面几个月也开不了张，欢迎大家去我那儿，把我的酒全喝完。
'When the epidemic is over, 'said the barman,' I'll treat everyone to a drink, and I won't be able to open one for the next few months.
禁行这天晚上，大家在群里讨论，当初是怎么说服家人同意自己做志愿者的，结果发现，除了家里有医护一线的外，很多年轻人根本没和家人讲，或是没讲实话。
On the evening of the ban, the group discussed how they had persuaded their families to agree to volunteer, and found that many young people did not speak to their families at all or were not telling the truth, except for the front-line medical staff at home.
他们这个群，每天接送几十上百单。
They carry tens of thousands of them every day.
石磊接得不算多，一两天出门跑一趟。
Shi Lei didn't take much. One day or two.
但妻子还是很担心，起初不太乐意他当志愿者。
But his wife was still worried and was reluctant to volunteer at first.
他想不出该怎么说服妻子，随口说了句“天下兴亡，匹夫有责”。
He couldn't figure out how to persuade his wife and casually said, "The world is rising and falling, the husband is responsible."
后来想想，这话从一个三十九岁的老男人嘴里说出来，挺中二的。
In retrospect, it came out of the mouth of a thirty-nine-year-old man.
有几次，他先接了单，再告诉妻子。
Several times he took the slip and told his wife.
妻子说，怎么又去。
And the wife said, Why go again?
他说，哎呀，我都已经跟人约好了。
He said, Gee, I've got a date.
妻子也就不再说什么。
The wife said nothing more.
他打心眼里感激妻子，和自己一起承担风险，她也是在付出。
He was deeply grateful to his wife and took risks with him. She was paying, too.
机动车禁行，防护物资短缺，疫情没有好转的迹象，各种令人绝望的消息在网上疯狂流传。
Motor vehicles are off limits, supplies are scarce, the epidemic is showing no sign of improving, and desperate news is circulating frantically online.
那两天，武汉志愿者车主的总量从四千降到四百。
On those two days, the total number of volunteers in Wuhan fell from 4,000 to 400.
无论城内还是城外，人们的情绪越来越焦虑。
Inside and outside the city, there is growing anxiety.
石磊每天都会去志愿者群里看上两眼，看着不断被“消掉”的医护用车求助列表，他觉得，对自己是一种莫大的慰藉。
He finds it a great comfort to go to the volunteer corps every day to look at the ever-erased list of medical-car help lists.
“我要是天天盯着网上的那些消息看，心情得多丧啊。
"If I stare at the news on the Internet every day, I feel very sad.
留在这里的，都是普普通通的老百姓。
The people who stay here are ordinary people.
我们也会害怕，也会难过，也会愤怒。
We are afraid, we are sad, we are angry.
我们不是医护人员，没办法救治别人，那就尽自己所能给别人一点帮助。
We're not paramedics, we can't help others, so do what we can to help others.
做志愿者，也不光是在帮别人，其实对我自己，也是心灵上的安慰。
As a volunteer, not only to help others, but also to myself, is also a spiritual comfort.
你看到有这么多人，还是义无反顾地，他们怕不怕我不知道，但看到他们还是义无反顾地在做这些事，你心里就踏实了。
When you see so many people, they're afraid I don't know, but it's reassuring to see that they're doing it anyway.
”石磊说。
"said Shi.
1月31日，送完护士，石磊去朋友大徐那里拿口罩。
On January 31, after delivering the nurse, Shi Lei went to his friend Xu to get a mask.
大徐听说妇幼医院的防护物资紧缺，捐了两盒口罩，托他带过去。
Xu heard about the shortage of protective materials for mother and child hospitals, donated two boxes of masks, entrusted him to take over.
数量不多，略表心意。
A small quantity is a token of appreciation.
大徐说，反正自己不怎么出门，把更多的口罩留给医生吧。
Xu said he didn't go out much anyway, leaving more masks for the doctor.
大徐也是游戏玩家，上海人，在武汉工作。
Xu is also a gamer, a Shanghai native who works in Wuhan.
两人因为游戏而认识。
They met because of the game.
这两天，大徐正帮着方舱医院的人买眼罩。
For the past two days, DaXu is helping people in the Fang Cao Hospital to buy blindfolds.
方舱医院晚上亮灯，很多人不习惯，休息不好。
Square cabin hospital lights at night, many people are not used to, the rest is not good.
第二天早晨，石磊把大徐的口罩送到妇幼医院，顺路接了一位下夜班的护士回家。
The next morning, Shi sent Xu's mask to the Mother and Child Hospital, where he picked up a night nurse.
这位护士已经连续工作三十六个小时，一上车就睡着了。
The nurse had been working thirty-six hours in a row and fell asleep as soon as she got on the bus.
回到小区，走在路上，景色依旧，但空无一人，只有鸟鸣声穿透寂静。
Back to the community, walking on the road, the scenery is still, but empty, only the sound of birds piercing the silence.
石磊觉得，一切像在做梦。
It all feels like a dream, Mr. Shi says.
42月2日晚上，石磊联系了一位护士，约好第二天早晨七点多送她上班。
On the evening of February 2, Shi Lei contacted a nurse and arranged to see her off at 7: 00 a.m. the next morning.
过了一会儿，想想不对，赶紧又联系她，问能不能稍微提前点。
After a while, think wrong, hasten to contact her again, ask if can a little earlier.
护士说，可以啊。
"The nurse said," Yes.
石磊没好意思说，自己想看球。
Shi Lei didn't want to say he wanted to watch the game.
2月3日早晨七点半，是第五十四届超级碗总决赛的开赛时间，酋长队对49人队。
February 3rd morning at 7: 30, the start of the 54th Super Bowl Finals, the Emirates versus the 49-man team.
​石磊是橄榄球爱好者，对他来说，超级碗的重要性不亚于春晚。
A rugby lover, the Super Bowl is as important to him as the Spring Festival Gala.
这些日子被疫情闹得，差点把超级碗的时间忘了。
It was so bad these days that I almost forgot my Super Bowl time.
他喜爱的西雅图海鹰队已经被淘汰，闯入决赛的两支球队，他支持酋长队。
His favorite Seattle Seahawk team has been eliminated, broke into the final of the two teams, he supported the Chiefs.
第二天出门接护士前，他特意穿上了酋长队的红色球衣。
The next day before he went out to pick up the nurse, he put on a red shirt for the Chiefs.
也就是那天，何辉去世的消息传来。
That day, the news of Ho Hui's death came.
群主说，咱们暂时停了吧。
And the lord said, Let us cease for a while.
大家没有停。
We didn't stop.
做志愿者的这段时间，手头各自积累了不少医护人员的联系方式，义务接送的行动至今仍在继续。
During this time as volunteers, on their own accumulated a lot of contact information of medical personnel, the volunteer action continues to this day.
“小姨夫从发病到确诊感染用了八天，人都烧迷糊了，却在排队收治的过程中神奇的恢复，开始想吃肉，并于今天凌晨入院。
It took eight days for my uncle to be diagnosed with the infection, but after a strange recovery in the queue, he began to feel like eating meat and was admitted to hospital in the early hours of the morning.
早晨起床老婆发现那位网上求助的七十多岁退休教师是她初中老师。
Waking up in the morning, his wife found that the retired teacher in her 70s who asked for help online was her junior high school teacher.
谣言辟谣几次，经历了过山车一般的心情后，志愿者何辉大哥还是离世。
The rumor refutes a few times, experienced roller coaster general mood, volunteer He Hui big brother still died.
小区物业和大多数邻居都相互体谅，共克时艰，却也有人因为害怕要求物业把小区花园一分为二隔开，因为另一侧有确诊的邻居。
Community property and most neighbors are mutual understanding, difficult times, but also because of fear of property requirements to divide the plot garden, because there are confirmed neighbors on the other side.
我那信教的婶婶每天都在家族群里发布主的福音……这就是疫区的生活，有点魔幻，但没人可以拒绝。
My religious aunt preached the gospel of the Lord every day in the family... This was life in an infected area, a little magical, but no one could refuse.
”2月3日，石磊在微博上写道。
On February 3, Shi wrote in a microblog post.
石磊的微博名是“Xbox军情局”，他是微软粉丝，赛车游戏爱好者。
Mr. Shi's microblogging name is' Xbox Military Intelligence ', a Microsoft fan and racing enthusiast.
微软、索尼、任天堂的最新主机，家里都有。
Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo's latest host, all at home.
去年年底，从土耳其回武汉后，他对古希腊古罗马文明产生兴趣，买了《刺客信条：奥德赛》。
After returning to Wuhan from Turkey at the end of last year, he became interested in ancient Greek and Roman civilization and bought Assassin's Creed: Odyssey.
封城前的那周，每天玩两三个小时。
Two or three hours a day during the week before the siege.
现在虽然有了大把时间，却没了心情。
Although now has a lot of time, but no mood.
打开游戏机想玩会儿，集中不了注意力，顶多玩半个小时。
Turn on the game machine and try to play for a while, losing focus and playing for half an hour at most.
玩的时候，也不像以前那样，不停地推任务推剧情，只是在游戏里到处溜达，看看风景。
When playing, not like before, keep pushing the task to push the plot, just around the game, see the scenery.
石磊还是跑步爱好者。
Shi Lei is also a runner.
跑步时没法戴口罩，但不戴口罩，会对他人造成困扰。
You can't wear a mask while running, but not a mask can cause problems for others.
好在小区旁边就是绿道，天气好的话，起个大早，趁外面没人，出门跑十公里。
Fortunately, the neighborhood is next to the green road, the weather is good, get up early, while no one outside, run 10 kilometers.
疫情结束后，你有什么特别想做的事？我问。
Is there anything in particular you want to do after the epidemic is over? I asked.
吃，石磊说。
Eat, said Shi Lei.
“我想出去吃热干面牛肉粉鲜鱼糊汤粉热干粉糯米鸡面窝酥饺烧麦生煎包子蒸饺水饺云吞欢喜坨糯米包油条油条油饼鸡冠饺。
"I'd like to go out for hot dry noodles with beef noodle noodles, fresh fish pasta powder hot dry powder glutinous rice chicken noodle fried dumplings fried dumplings steamed dumplings water dumplings glutinous rice buns fried dough sticks tortillas chicken dumplings.
”I游戏Xbox玩家123426798Dagou1206 人关注关注人物5814 人关注订阅这孩子还去给别人做家务活着13岁男孩为给辛劳母亲买车，挣钱打工还卖了XBOX呵呵帝HED2019-04-074884将成为 Xbox one 家族售价最低的游戏机资讯传言：无盘版Xbox One S遭泄露ytytytyty...2019-03-221840这将是一台很有竞争力的低端主机资讯外媒传无光驱的 Xbox One S 全数字版将于5月初发售呵呵帝HED2019-03-062048评论区发送共 48 条评论热门最新MGCN蝙蝠侠  ・2020-02-11越发喜欢这种尽量不带情绪的描述，用平和的文字带着我观察别人的现实生活，很有意义，感谢！56回复・举报NeeroyJenkins  MGCN蝙蝠侠・2020-02-11dagou老师的文字里很少直接描写情绪，却总从字里行间流露出忧伤。
The Xbox player 123426798Dagou1206 People of Concern 5814 Watch the kids subscribe and do other people's chores! 56.The 13-year-old boy will be selling me a car for his hard-working mother and XBOX HED2019-04-074884.
很喜欢这种风格!不做作，很自然，却有点凄凉。
I love this style! It's natural, but a little dreary.
3回复・举报旌旗  ・2020-02-11“多保重，保护好自己和家人”37回复・举报程晨criss  ・2020-02-11那段时间，武汉卫健委每天通报，无新增新冠肺炎病例，未发现明确的人传人证据。
3 ・ Respond to President's report Banner 2020-02-11 "Take care of yourself and your family." 37 Respond to report that Chen Chen criss 2020-02-11, Wuhan Health Care Commission informs every day that there are no new cases of crown pneumonia and no clear person-to-person evidence has been found.
大家也不怎么在意。
People don't care too much.
没人想到，病毒已经在人群里悄悄蔓延。
No one thought that the virus had crept into the crowd.
看到这儿真的是义愤填膺，虽然现在很多人说到这个时候已经没有任何意义为这个气氛，可是现在真的到了什么事都么有意义的时候了吗？可悲。
It's really outrageous to see that, although many people now say there is no sense in this atmosphere, but now it's really time for nothing to make sense? Sadly.
。
.
。
.
。
.
。
.
。
.
17回复・举报蓝堪  程晨criss・2020-02-11更可悲的是一些未成年人，他们窝在自己远离疫区的家里，衣食无忧，无所事事，一边对网络上“大惊小怪”的人们冷嘲热讽，一边挂念什么时候才能吃上炸鸡汉堡。
17 ・ Respond to her report that Ms. Criss 2020-02-11 is even more tragic for minors who live in their homes far from an infected area, are well fed, do nothing and are cynical about when they can have fried chicken burgers on the Internet.
他们觉得刷几句武汉加油就是做了贡献，他们认为群众的声音都是反动行为，阴险的境外势力渗透到了互联网的每一个角落，越是重灾区传出的骇人之事越是另有企图，他们对从未接触过的一切深信不疑，他们对从未了解过的一切置若罔闻。
They think the voice of the masses is reactionary, insidious foreign forces infiltrate every corner of the Internet, the more terrible things coming from the worst-hit areas, the more convinced they are about everything they have never touched, and they turn a blind eye to what they have never known.
12回复・举报魔法核蟹  ・2020-02-11whzf配不上这样的人民。
12 ・ Respond to report that Nuclear Crab 2020-02-11whzf does not deserve such a people.
25回复・举报牧野流星  ・2020-02-11那句‘‘天下兴亡匹夫有责’’瞬间打到了泪点，看哭了6回复・举报樱花牌柴油  ・2020-02-11如果有一天，后代的孩子们问这些志愿者们“2020年的时候爷爷你们在干什么”的时候，这些志愿者们不用唯唯诺诺的说：“爷爷当年在家里铲屎”。
25 ・ Respond to the comment 'The Worlds Are Responsible' of Wild Meteor 2020-02-11 and instantly burst into tears and cried 6 times to report Sakura diesel fuel 2020-02-11 If one day the children of future generations ask the volunteers, "What are you doing in 2020," they don't have to nod off and say, "Grandpa shovelled shit at home."
你们可以直盯着孙辈的双眼大笑着说：“爷爷当年在他妈的武汉市里和医护人员并肩作战！”4回复・举报知晓暗面  ・2020-02-11发生这种事，最受苦的永远是普通老百姓。
You can look straight into the eyes of your grandchildren and laugh and say, "Grandpa fought alongside the paramedics in the frakking city of Wuhan!" 4 Reply ・ Report that it happened to know about dark side 2020-02-11, and it is always the ordinary people who suffer most.
6回复・举报nicholas7130  ・2020-02-11气愤当然要气愤，也要看道伟大的平凡人作出的努力，把气愤转换成坚定的意志力，支持我们去创造更好的世界——至少在疫情过去后，不懈地追问。
6 ・ Respond to Nicholas 7130 2020-02-11 Anger, of course, but also look at the efforts of great ordinary people to turn anger into firm willpower to support us in creating a better world - at least after the epidemic is over, pursue it relentlessly.
6回复・举报委赫6660  ・2020-02-11一人宿舍留守的第21天，有舍友回来，不是一个楼层，叫他三次进屋他都没进，他没戴口罩，还没有钥匙，晚上出去取外卖的时候看到他房间门开了。
6. On the twenty-first day of the one-person dormitory left behind by Commission resolution 6660 2020-02-11, a roommate returned, not on a floor, and he did not enter the house three times. He was not wearing a mask and did not have a key. He saw his room door open when he went out to fetch it at night.
这二十多天不停的刷机核，希望看到大狗老师的文字，从马车队长开始，成为了习惯。
These more than 20 days of brushing machine core, hope to see the big dog teacher's words, from the coach captain began, has become a habit.
不知道为什么微博有几个月没有更新，没有评论，账号忽然被锁，有句话发在这里吧。
Do not know why Weibo has not been updated for several months, no comments, account number was suddenly locked, there is a sentence here.
没有热血，只有冷静，希望复工的日期不要太靠后，不希望贾平凹浮城的末世样子真的到来，满目尽是荒诞，可笑的是现实比小说更甚。
No warm-blooded, only calm, hope that the date of resumption of work is not too close, do not hope that the end of Jia Ping Ao really come, the eyes are full of absurdity, the reality is more than fiction.
3回复・举报天启坦克  ・2020-02-11大狗老师的文字是面上无波，暗含波涛2回复・举报伪非  ・2020-02-11只有人民 才是伟大的 只有人民 才是不朽的2回复・举报FairyMad_ETO  ・2020-02-11等彻底结束了，我这个东北人想去武汉吃热干面2回复・举报春秋不撸串  ・2020-02-11武汉加油！2回复・举报无头小仔  ・2020-02-11昨晚上睡不着，恍惚在想这要是个梦就好了，可是使劲摇头也醒不过来2回复・举报lulubear  ・2020-02-11哎 很多地方的人还只是把这场灾难当成家里宅的托词 我有种冲动去武汉加入志愿者1回复・举报。
3 ・ Reply to the teacher of apocalypse tank 2020-02-11 The words of the teacher are no waves on the surface, implying that only the people are great. Only the people are immortal.
