武汉官方称红会“调配不及时”， 医院拿捐赠文件却取不到物资。
Wuhan official said the Red Cross Society "deployment is not timely," the hospital took the donation documents but could not get supplies.
李澄晚。
Li Chenggwen.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
01.02.2020本文字数：3601，阅读时长大约6分钟导读：关于一线医院防护物资紧缺的消息满天飞，湖北省红十字会、武汉红十字会物资分配效率和公平性问题引发质疑。
2008-09-04 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10: 20 The Red Cross and Wuhan Red Cross Society in Hubei Province have raised questions about the efficiency and fairness of material distribution.
作者 | 第一财经李澄晚1月31日下午，涂先生来到位于武汉市汉阳区国博中心A馆的武汉红十字会（下称“武汉红会”）物资接收仓库，这里的两个仓库A1和A2仓库内堆积了大量从外地运送而来的物资，有消毒液、防护口罩以及防护服和红外线体温仪等。
Mr. Tu arrived at Wuhan Red Cross (Wuhan Red Cross) Materials Receiving Warehouse at A Guobo Center, Hanyang District, Wuhan City, on the afternoon of January 31, where two warehouses, A1 and A2, were filled with large quantities of goods shipped from abroad, including disinfectant, face masks, and protective clothing and infrared thermometers.
涂先生是武汉一家医学检验公司的员工。
Mr. Tu is an employee of a medical examination company in Wuhan.
该公司系第一批可开展新冠病毒核酸检测的第三方机构名单。
The company was one of the first third-party institutions to carry out Nucleic Acid Testing.
涂先生希望能够从武汉红会领到一些紧缺的物资，但最终未能如愿。
Mr. Tu hoped to receive some scarce supplies from the Wuhan Red Cross Society, but failed in the end.
事实上，近日关于一线医院防护物资紧缺的消息满天飞，湖北省红十字会、武汉红十字会物资分配效率和公平性问题引发质疑。
In fact, recent days about the shortage of first-line hospital supplies around the world, Hubei Red Cross, Wuhan Red Cross material distribution efficiency and equity caused doubts.
涂先生看到，在物资接收仓库门口，来自湖北省武汉市、黄冈市、咸宁市等地区的医院相关人士，均在现场焦急地等待提取物资。
Mr. Tu saw that in front of the material receiving warehouse, from Wuhan, Huanggang City, Xianning City in Hubei Province, hospital-related people are anxiously waiting at the scene to get supplies.
然而，有的人仅提了部分物资，还有的人则失望而归，未提半点。
Some, however, made only partial deliveries, while others returned disappointed, without saying a word.
现场负责物资发放的人士手中拿着一份物资调配表，她表示，物资目前仅提供给在调配表上的医院以及机构，表外的人士如要提货需跟卫健部门联系。
The person in charge of the distribution of materials at the scene has a copy of the material deployment schedule, she said, the material is currently available only to the hospitals and organizations on the deployment list, and people outside the table need to contact the health department if they want to take delivery.
1月31日，武汉市政府党组成员李强在湖北省新闻发布会上表示，红十字会在工作中也存在一些差距，比如周转不够快、调拨不够及时等问题，这些都需要在工作中不断加以改进。
On January 31, Li Qiang, a member of the Wuhan municipal government, told a news conference in Hubei province that there were also gaps in the work of the Red Cross, such as insufficient turnover and untimely transfers, which needed to be constantly improved.
医生守红会仓库门口等物资涂先生所在公司主要承担病毒样本搜集工作，该公司派驻到武汉火神山医院现场搜集病毒样本的人员有一二十人，他们是实验室检测人员，每天直接接触肺炎病毒，需要待疫情结束之后才能撤走。
Mr. Tu's company is mainly responsible for collecting virus samples. One to 20 people from the company were sent to Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital to collect virus samples. They were laboratory testers who were in direct contact with the virus every day and needed to wait until the outbreak was over.
“按照每天工作时长8至12个小时计算，他们平均两三个小时更换一次口罩，这些人员一天口罩消耗量达上百只，一个月估计要消耗3000只以上。
"They change masks an average of two or three hours a day for 8 to 12 hours and consume up to a hundred masks a day and an estimated 3,000 a month," he said.
” 涂先生说，这还只是口罩，还不算防护服以及护目镜和消毒用品等物资。
Mr. Tu said it was just a mask, in addition to protective clothing and supplies such as goggles and disinfectant supplies.
尽管手里有火神山医院开具的协调购置防护物品的函，但涂先生并未在红会有满意的收获。
Despite a letter from Mount Fujimori Hospital to coordinate the acquisition of protective equipment, Mr. Tu did not receive satisfactory results in the Red Cross.
防护物资紧缺的显然不只这一家。
This is clearly not the only family facing shortages of protective equipment.
“我们医院现在有疑似病例，但是所有的防护物资都缺。
"There are suspicious cases in our hospital now, but all the protective materials are in short supply.
现在遇到最大的困难是，就是不知道到底该找谁（解决紧缺物资）。
The biggest difficulty right now is not knowing who to call.
”1月30日，在武汉红十字会物资接收仓库外寻求防护物资无果的陈先生在电话中焦急地告诉第一财经记者。
On January 30, Mr. Chen, seeking protection outside the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse, anxiously told the first financial reporter over the telephone.
陈先生是湖北省咸宁市当地一家乡镇基层医院的物资采购负责人，此次他与隔壁乡镇医院的人员一起组团来汉，希望在武汉红十字会仓库外寻求到防护物资，“我们这些医院共计有300名左右的医护人员，每天都有发烧的病人，防护设备消耗还是挺大的，现在最缺的还是消毒液和防护服，所以来看能不能搞点物资回去救急。
Mr. Chen, the head of material procurement at a local township hospital in Xianning, Hubei Province, sent a group of people to Han next door to look for protective materials outside the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse.
”自新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，武汉乃至湖北全省进入疫情防控的关键阶段，咸宁市的确诊病例仍在持续增加，且下辖区县的确诊病例已达双位数。
"Since the outbreak of pneumonia in Xinjiang, Wuhan and even Hubei province have entered a critical phase of epidemic prevention and control, with confirmed cases continuing to increase in Xianning City and reaching double-digit levels in counties under its jurisdiction.
据咸宁市新冠肺炎防控指挥部最新通报，截至1月30日24时，咸宁市累计报告新冠肺炎确诊病例166例，目前追踪到密切接触者2610人，已解除医学观察35人，尚有2575人正在接受医学观察。
As of 2400 hours on January 30, the city of Xianning had reported 166 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia, followed by 2,610 people in close contact, 35 medical observers have been relieved and 2,575 are under medical observation, the bureau said.
“我们城区疫情还是比较严重，防护物资也是顾不过来。
"Our urban area is still relatively serious epidemic, protective materials can not be taken care of.
对口的上级卫健委部门也是发愁，我们只能自己想办法。
Counterpart superior health care committee departments are worried, we can only think of their own ways.
”陈先生说。
"said Mr. Chen.
涂先生在现场看到，与陈先生一样，同样徘徊在武汉红十字会物资接收仓库门前的还有来自武汉市第八医院、武汉市协和医院放射科以及黄冈市浠水县等地的医护人员，他们有一个共同的目的，“领取物资回去解燃眉之急。
It is indicated that, like Mr. Chen, medical personnel from Wuhan City Hospital No. 8, Wuhan Concorde Hospital Radiology Unit and Huanggang City Sishui County have the same goal of "receiving supplies back to meet their immediate needs."
”当日来此武汉红十字会仓库门口领取物资的大多是相关医院的医护人员。
"Wuhan Red Cross warehouse that day to receive supplies at the door is mostly related to the hospital medical staff.
武汉市第八医院放射科的医生说，“我们现在是全院都缺防护物资，医院（负责采购这块工作的）也没有人来，只有我们自己来了。
"We have a shortage of protective equipment all over the hospital," said the radiologist at Wuhan's Eighth Hospital. "The hospital [which buys this work] is empty, only ourselves.
”武汉市第八医院系1月20日武汉市卫生健康委公布的发热门诊医疗机构之一。
Wuhan Eighth Hospital is one of the medical facilities for fever clinics announced by Wuhan Health Commission on January 20.
此次肺炎疫情，武汉市内的发热人数剧增，肺部需要拍片的患者持续上升，导致发热门诊定点医院放射科颇为忙碌，自然防护物资消耗量较大，防护服、护目镜以及口罩颇为紧缺。
As a result of the pneumonia epidemic, the number of people with fever in Wuhan has risen sharply, and the number of patients who need to be filmed in the lungs continues to rise, leading to a busy radiology department at the fever clinic.
“我们之前去了汉口胜利街（162号）的武汉市红十字会办公地，可是对方说那里东西少，所以我们就来这里了呢。
"We went to the Wuhan Red Cross office in Hankou Shengjie Street (162), but the other side said there was not much there, so we came here.
”武汉市第八医院的医生说。
"said the doctor at Wuhan Eighth Hospital.
“医院负责物资采购的也不来，只有我们自己上了。
The hospital is not in charge of the procurement of supplies, only ourselves.
等了半天都没领到物资，搞得我们像要饭的一样。
Wait a long time did not receive supplies, so that we like to ask for food.
”焦急等待的人群中，有医护人员对仓库门口的工作人员发出牢骚。
Among the anxious waiting group, medical staff complained about the staff at the warehouse door.
有些医护人员直接乘坐医院的救护车赶到红十字会仓库，希望领取物资快速回去工作。
Some doctors and nurses rushed directly to the Red Cross warehouse in hospital ambulances, hoping to get supplies and get back to work quickly.
然而，却事与愿违。
However, that was not the case.
医院的捐赠文件也领不到物资武汉市第八医院的医生手握一份纸质版的介绍信，一脸茫茫地在武汉红十字会仓库门口徘徊，焦急地等待领取物资。
Hospital donation documents also do not receive supplies Wuhan City Eighth Hospital doctor holding a paper version of the letter of introduction, a face wandering in Wuhan Red Cross warehouse, anxiously waiting to receive supplies.
但最终他们和蹲守在此的很多人一样，失望而归。
But in the end they were as disappointed as many of the men who stayed here.
虽然涂先生与医生们看到仓库里物资堆积如山，但很多人因为“手续问题”没能领到急需的物资，黄冈市浠水县人民医院甚至拿出院方的捐赠文件，都不起作用。
Although Mr. Tu and the doctors saw that the materials in the warehouse were piled high, many people had not received the materials needed because of the formalities and it would be futile for them to even produce the donation documents from the hospital.
“我们不知道要有什么样的手续呀。
"We do not know the procedure to be followed.
”咸宁的陈先生找红十字会仓库门口负责物资发放的人士理论。
Mr. Chen in Xianning sought advice from the person in charge of distributing supplies at the Red Cross warehouse.
武汉红会的工作人员说话也有些急，“（提货你）要找省卫健委，我们不能做主呀，总是要讲个道理啊，是不是呀。
Wuhan Red Cross staff also spoke a little urgent, "(pick up goods you) to look for provincial health committee, we can not make the decision ah, always have to tell a reason ah, is not ah.
”陈先生说，刚开始来之前，他看到网上的相关资料说，说只需要医院证明以及需求清单和相关介绍信，就可以直接来这里取货，但是来之后经过询问发现不行。
Mr. Chen says he first saw online sources saying that he needed only a hospital certificate and a list of needs and references to pick them up, but after questioning, he couldn't.
1月31日，武汉红十字会官网发布关于“凭介绍信就可以领用疫情防控物资"的辟谣申明称，近日网络流传“所有医院、社区都可凭介绍信去红十字会领取物资”，此种说法不实，“目前，所有医疗物资的分配及发放，都是在武汉市抗击新型肺炎疫情防控指挥部的统一协调下，根据各医疗单位的实际使用需求统一分配。
At present, all medical supplies are distributed and distributed under the unified coordination of Wuhan Municipal Command for the Prevention and Control of the New Pneumonia epidemic, according to a rumor spread by the Internet that "all hospitals and communities can use referral letters to get supplies from the Red Cross.
”在武汉红十字会领取物资到底需要什么手续？涂先生等人也不清楚，“武汉红十字会刚答复称，需要相关医院提供床位、医护人员和物资需求的数量，统一上报至卫健部门。
"The Wuhan Red Cross Society has just replied that it needs to provide beds, medical staff and material needs to be uniformly reported to the Health Department.
”“（武汉）红十字会方面跟我说的是，需要与武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部联系沟通，由他们来分配。
"(Wuhan) The Red Cross told me that it needed to communicate with the Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Control Command and that they would distribute it.
但是该指挥部的告知我们，他们目前只分配给定点的发热指定医院，所以我们应该在这里领不到物资。
But the command informed us that they are currently only assigned to designated fever hospitals, so we should not get supplies here.
”涂先生说。
"said Mr. Tu.
同样，来自咸宁的陈先生经过询问武汉红十字会仓库外的工作人员，对方告诉他领取物资需要找省卫健委，经过批准之后才能领取，“但是我们这种乡镇基层医院，如何跨越几级部门去找上面的省卫健委呢？”涂先生注意到，武汉红十字会现场负责领取物资的一位女性工作人员手上握有一份物资调配表，其上有需求物资的医疗机构名单，初步看名单上包含有武汉金银潭医院、协和医院等。
Similarly, Mr. Chen from Xianning asked the staff outside the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse that he needed to get the materials from the provincial health committee before receiving them. "But how can we cross several levels to find the provincial health committee? Mr. Tu noted that a female staff member at the Wuhan Red Cross site was holding a list of medical institutions in need of supplies.
武汉红会的女工作人员确认，只有在调配表名单上的机构，当天可以领取到相应的防护物资。
Wuhan Red Cross women staff confirmed that only in the deployment of the list of agencies, the same day can receive the corresponding protective materials.
她同时安慰大家，“今天的物资分配绝对不是‘一次性的’（指仅有这一次），后续有相关设备和防护用品我们会再继续分配，大家一定不要担心。
"Today's distribution is definitely not a one-off event," she said. "We will continue to distribute related equipment and protective equipment.
武汉新型肺炎防控指挥部现在知道武汉市的疫情情况，根据各个单位收治的患者数量和大家的库存情况再统一调配，防止出现有些单位特别富余，有些单位则急得跳脚的情况。
Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command now know the situation in Wuhan city, according to the number of patients admitted to each unit and your stock of the unified deployment, to prevent some units particularly surplus, some units jump.
”存在调配不及时问题在1月31日晚间的湖北新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作例行新闻发布会上，有记者向武汉市政府党组成员李强提问，为什么红十字会接受了社会捐赠的大量物资，而医院还是缺物资？他回应，在防控疫情的情况下，红十字会的捐赠是满足医疗物资需求的重要渠道，“医院仍缺物资存在多种原因，一个重要原因就是消耗量大于供应量。
At a regular press conference on the prevention and control of pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection in Hubei Province on the night of January 31, a reporter asked Li Qiang, a member of the Wuhan government party group, why the Red Cross had received large donations of materials from society and hospitals were still in short supply.
”他说，红十字会在官网上发布了大量急需的物资，但捐赠的物资和这些急需的物资在品种、型号、标准等方面不能很好地对应。
He said the Red Cross had posted a large quantity of urgently needed materials on the official website, but the donated materials and urgently needed materials did not correspond well in terms of varieties, models and standards.
“当然红十字会在工作中也存在一些差距，比如周转不够快、调拨不够及时等问题，这些都需要在工作中不断加以改进。
"There are, of course, some gaps in the work of the Red Cross, such as insufficient turnover and lack of timely transfers, which need to be continually improved.
”武汉市政府党组成员李强表示。
Li Qiang, a member of Wuhan government, said.
事实上，上述所指的种种问题，在武汉红会仓库及周边能够有迹可循。
In fact, the above-mentioned problems can be traced in and around the Wuhan Red Cross Society warehouse.
1月31日下午4时许，司机卢师傅才等到车上的货物卸完。
On 31 January, at around 4 p.m., the driver, Mr. Lu, waited until the cargo had been unloaded.
卢师傅说，自己拖着上海红十字会的1400箱消毒液来此，早上就到了，可是一直等到下午才卸完，这种效率远低于正常情况下的卸载速度。
Master Lu said he dragged 1,400 cases of disinfectant from the Shanghai Red Cross and arrived in the morning, but waited until the afternoon to unload, much less efficiently than normal.
除了卢师傅外，在此处等待卸货的司机较多，在武汉红十字会仓库门外排起长队。
In addition to Master Lu, there are more drivers waiting to unload here, in long lines outside the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse.
来自福建的司机装载了30箱医用消毒水，正在一旁等候进入仓库卸货，他说自己负责湖北武汉、襄阳两处的物资配送，此处卸完货之后，还要赶到襄阳当地运送物资。
A driver from Fujian province, loaded with 30 boxes of medical disinfectant, was waiting to be unloaded at the warehouse. He said he was in charge of the distribution of supplies from Wuhan and Xiangyang in Hubei Province, where he had to be transported to Xiangyang after unloading the goods.
武汉市政府党组成员李强在1月31日晚间的湖北新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作例行新闻发布会上说，武汉市红十字会已接收捐赠超过6亿元，存在周转不够快以及调拨不够及时的问题。
At a regular press conference on January 31, Li Qiang, a member of the Wuhan municipal government, said that the Wuhan Red Cross Society had received donations of more than 600 million yuan, and there were problems of insufficient turnover and insufficient timely allocation.
上述新闻发布会透露，截至31日12时，武汉市慈善总会共收到社会捐款超过25.8亿元。
According to the press conference, as of 12: 00 noon on July 31, the Wuhan General Association of Charity had received more than 2.58 billion yuan in donations.
目前，首批非定向社会捐赠款已经使用8.4191亿元，并发布了公告，第二批6亿元即将公布；收到定向捐款3600万元，已按照捐赠人的意愿拨付到位。
So far, the first batch of non-targeted social donations has been used to the tune of 841.91 million yuan, a notice has been issued and a second batch of 600 million yuan will be announced soon.
据新华社报道，截至30日，武汉市红十字会已接收27笔社会捐赠的各类防疫物资。
As of June 30, the Wuhan Red Cross Society had received 27 donations of various epidemic prevention materials, Xinhua reported.
其中，口罩9316箱、防护服74522套、护目镜80456个，还有其他药品和医疗器械。
Of these, 9,316 were for masks, 74522 for protective clothing, 80,456 for goggles and other medicines and medical devices.
捐赠物资由指挥部根据医疗机构的需求统一调拨。
Donations are centrally allocated by the Command in accordance with the needs of medical institutions.
另外，武汉市红十字会累计接收社会捐赠资金6.0808亿元，目前已拨付1.5859亿元，交由指挥部统筹使用；另有定向捐赠2500万元已经拨付。
In addition, the Wuhan Red Cross Society has received 608.08 million yuan in donations from the public, of which 158.59 million yuan has been allocated to the headquarters for overall use.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉官方称红会“调配不及时”， 医院拿捐赠文件却取不到物资。
Wuhan official said the Red Cross Society "deployment is not timely," the hospital took the donation documents but could not get supplies.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉官方称红会“调配不及时”， 医院拿捐赠文件却取不到物资";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan official says the Red Cross "didn't deploy in time"; and that the hospital didn't get & quot; & quot; with its donation documents;;
var msg_desc = "关于一线医院防护物资紧缺的消息满天飞，湖北省红十字会、武汉红十字会物资分配效率和公平性问题引发质疑。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; With news flying about shortages in first-line hospital supplies, the Hubei Red Cross and Wuhan Red Cross have raised questions about the efficiency and fairness of supplies distributed.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
