​全球新冠病毒死亡人数过万，内地累计输入病例达到 269 例等13条新闻。
More than 10,000 people died from the disease, with 269 imported cases from the mainland and 13 news items.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
所有的鱼现在同步在 allthefishnews.wordpress.com 更新并可通过邮件订阅。
All fish are now synchronized at allthefishnews. wordpress.com and can be subscribed to by mail.
你可以复制上方链接浏览器打开获取订阅链接。
You can copy the above link browser to open for a subscription link.
根据丁香医生，截至 3 月 21 日 22:53 时，全国现存确诊病例 6311 例，累计确诊病例 81457 例，其中包括境外输入病例 269 例。
As of 22: 53 on March 21, there were 6,311 confirmed cases and 81,457 confirmed cases nationwide, including 269 imported cases from abroad, according to Dr. Lilac.
现存重症病例 1963 例，死亡病例 3261 例，累计治愈病例 71885 例。
There were 1963 severe cases, 3,261 deaths and 71,885 cumulative cases cured.
除中国以外，全球现存确诊病例为 172403 例，累计确诊病例 202357 例，死亡 8572 例，累计治愈 21382。
In addition to China, there are currently 172,403 confirmed cases worldwide, with a cumulative total of 202,357 confirmed cases and 8,572 deaths, with a cumulative total of 21,382 cured cases.
除中国外，目前全球至少有 154 个国家出现了新冠肺炎确诊病人。
In addition to China, there are at least 154 countries in the world now diagnosed with pneumonia.
疫情发展英国放弃“群体免疫”策略。
Epidemic Development in Britain Abandoning "Group Immunization" Strategies.
3 月 20 日，英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊表示，所有酒吧、餐馆、电影院、剧院、健身中心、游乐场、夜总会等餐饮娱乐行业都必须在周五午夜暂停营业，以防止病毒的进一步扩散和传播。
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Wednesday that all restaurants, restaurants, cinemas, theatres, fitness centers, amusement parks and nightclubs must be shut down at midnight on Friday to prevent further spread and spread of the virus.
不过餐饮依然能做外卖。
But meals can still be taken out.
约翰逊还呼吁人们不要赶在关门之前到夜总会或酒吧去，强调说现在至少需要让人们保持身体距离。
Johnson also urged people not to go to nightclubs or bars before closing time, stressing that it was at least necessary to keep people at arm's length.
约翰逊表示，他意识到了这样的措施“违背了出生在英格兰的人们与生俱来的一项不可剥夺的权利：去酒吧喝酒。
Johnson said he realized the measure was "contrary to the inalienable right that people born in England were born with: to go to bars and drink.
”特朗普与庞皮欧再提“中国病毒”。
Trump and Pompeii are talking again about the "Chinese virus."
在周五的白宫简报会上，总统特朗普和国务卿庞皮欧再次使用了“中国病毒”一词。
At a White House briefing on Friday, President Trump and Secretary of State Pompeii again used the term "Chinese virus."
这使本已紧张的中美关系进一步恶化。
This further aggravates already tense Sino-US relations.
此前一天，《华盛顿邮报》的一名摄影师在白宫讲台上拍摄到，特朗普的讲话提纲上“冠状”一词被划掉，替换成手写的“中国”。
The day before, a Washington Post photographer had taken photos from the White House podium of Trump's speech where the word "crown" had been crossed off and replaced by handwritten "China."
香港输入个案再创记录，社区传播风险增大。
Record case entries in Hong Kong, increasing the risk of community transmission.
3 月 20 日，受外来“倒灌”病例迅速增加等因素叠加影响，中国香港特别行政区迎来了自 2020 年 1 月底以来新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊感染病例新增数字最多的一天。
On March 20, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China received the largest number of new cases of coronavirus pneumonia confirmed since the end of January 2020, thanks to a combination of factors, including a rapid increase in the number of such cases.
在新增 48 例（另有 4 例初步确认，确诊者中年龄最小者仅 4 岁）确诊病例后，香港特区累计确诊感染人数达 256 人。
A cumulative total of 256 cases were diagnosed in the HKSAR following the confirmation of 48 new cases (4 cases were confirmed at the earliest age of 4).
48 例这一数字打破了本周此前时候单日新增 25 例的记录。
The 48 cases broke the record of 25 new cases a day earlier this week.
可进行对比的情况是：在过去一周当中，香港特区累计确诊 119 例，已与此次疫情爆发后前50天的确诊总人数大致相当。
By way of comparison, the cumulative total number of 119 confirmed cases in the HKSAR over the past week is about the same as the total number confirmed in the first 50 days after the outbreak.
119 名确诊感染者中 84% 的人曾有离港出游记录。
Eighty-four per cent of the 119 confirmed cases had a history of travel outside Hong Kong.
此外亦有部分香港留学生为受欧美疫情失控影响波及，决定暂时回港。
In addition, some Hong Kong students decided to return to Hong Kong temporarily because of the uncontrolled epidemic in Europe and the United States.
西班牙确诊人数超过 2 万，将所有私立医院公有化。
In Spain, more than 20,000 people were diagnosed and all private hospitals were publicly owned.
西班牙卫生部长伊利亚（Salvador Illa）表示，最糟糕的时刻正在来临。
Spain's health minister, Salvador Illa, said the worst was coming.
由于确诊人数不断上涨，在疫情最为严重的首都马德里等地的医院不堪重负，重症医疗医师在床位不足的情况下，面临艰难的选择。
Hospitals in places such as Madrid, the capital of the worst affected region, are overburdened by rising numbers of confirmed cases, and serious medical practitioners face difficult choices with inadequate beds.
西班牙重症监护医学和冠脉病学会（Semicyuc）已经起草了伦理指导意见，来帮助医生进行选择。
The Spanish Society for Intensive Care Medicine and Coronary Disease (Semicyuc) has drafted ethical guidelines to help doctors make choices.
在同时需要重症监护病床的病人中，优先选择的标准是预期寿命的长短，以及寿命中的生活质量。
Among patients who need intensive care beds at the same time, the preferred criteria are the length of life expectancy and the quality of life over the life span.
对于资源短缺的问题，伊利亚称，将有 1500 万件个人防护装备在“必要时刻”分发。
In response to the shortage of resources, Elijah said 15 million items of personal protective equipment would be distributed "at the necessary time."
西班牙国家警察局长表示，在过去的 24 小时内，西班牙警方逮捕的不遵守安全警告的人越来越多。
Spain's national police chief says more and more people have been arrested by Spanish police in the past 24 hours for failing to comply with safety warnings.
3 月 18 日西班牙已经宣布，该国所有私营医疗机构都将被暂时“公有化”，并紧急调用 5 万名医护人员，其中包括已退休的医生和应届医学院毕业生。
On March 18, Spain announced that all private medical institutions in the country would be temporarily "publicly owned" and that 50,000 health-care workers, including retired doctors and recent medical graduates, would be urgently mobilized.
城市防控清明节将至，各地倡议网络祭扫。
City control Qingming Festival is approaching, various initiatives across the network sweep.
继天津市 3 月 1 日通知要求清明节期间殡仪馆、公墓、公益性骨灰堂等殡葬服务机构暂停祭扫服务、暂停组织群体性活动之后，包括山东、广东和四川等全国各省陆续发出通知和倡议，要求人群不聚集祭扫、倡议居家网络祭扫。
Following the notice of March 1 that funeral services such as funeral homes, cemeteries and public urns be suspended and mass activities suspended during the Qingming Festival, including Shandong, Guangdong and Sichuan provinces, notices and initiatives have been issued in various provinces, including Shandong, Guangdong and Sichuan.
3 月 13 日，北京市要求，今年清明节群众祭扫实行网上祭扫和预约限流等措施。
March 13, Beijing, this year's Qingming Festival mass sweep of the implementation of online sweep and reservation restrictions, and other measures.
3 月 18 日，北京市发布清明节期间“理性追思 文明祭扫”倡议书提出，祭扫同行不超过 3 人，推荐选择家庭追思、网上祭奠或预约代为祭扫。
March 18, Beijing issued the Qingming Festival "Rational Remembrance of Civilization Sweeping" proposal, proposed that no more than three people, family memorial service, online commemoration or appointment on behalf of the sweep.
未来研判新冠病毒对幼儿，尤其是婴儿较危险。
In the future, the new crown virus is more dangerous to young children, especially infants.
近日，上海交通大学医学院儿童医学中心童世庐团队在国际权威儿科期刊《儿科》（Pediatrics）在线刊登论文《2143 例中国新冠肺炎患儿的流行病学特征》。
Recently, the Tong ShiLu team from the Children's Medical Center of Shanghai Jiaotong University published the paper "Epidemiological Characteristics of 2143 Children with Newly Coronary Pneumonia in China" online in Pediatrics, an international journal of paediatrics.
这是首份对中国新冠儿童患者流行病学特征和传播动力学的分析研究，其样本涵括中国疾病预防控制中心在 2020 年 1 月 16 日至 2 月 8 日内收到的 2143 例儿童新冠疑似或确诊病例。
This is the first analysis of epidemiological characteristics and transmission dynamics in children with the new crown in China. The sample includes 2,143 suspected or confirmed cases of children received by the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention between January 16 and February 8, 2020.
儿童曾被认为相对不容易患上新冠肺炎，但本研究显示全年龄儿童都对新冠病毒易感。
Children were thought to be relatively less likely to develop pneumonia, but the study showed that all-age children were susceptible to the new crown virus.
1 月中旬至 2 月初，国内已有超过 2000 例儿童新冠病例上报；尽管大多数儿童均为轻度或中度症状，但仍有小部分儿童——尤其是婴儿和幼儿亦受到新冠病毒感染，重症比例也更高。
Between mid-January and the beginning of February, more than 2,000 new cases of child crowns were reported in the country; while the majority of children have mild or moderate symptoms, a small proportion of children - especially infants and young children - are also newly infected with the new crown virus, with higher rates of severe illness.
医疗方案中国新冠疫苗已开始临床试验。
China's new crown vaccine has begun clinical trials.
据《科技日报》报道，第一批新冠疫苗已经注射入志愿者体内。
The first new vaccines were injected into volunteers, the Science and Technology Daily reported.
重组新型冠状病毒(2019-COV)疫苗（腺病毒载体）Ⅰ 期临床试验，主办单位是军事科学院医学研究院生物工程研究所和康希诺生物股份公司，招募了武汉地区年龄 18-60 周岁常住居民 108 人，按照低剂量组、中剂量组和高剂量组三组接种，每组 36 人，接种后进行 14 天隔离观察，半年内进行随访，检测体内是否产生抗 S 蛋白特异性抗体。
The recombinant coronavirus (2019-COV) vaccine (adenovirus vector) phase I clinical trial, sponsored by the Institute of Medical Engineering of the Academy of Military Sciences and Consino Biological Joint Stock Company, recruited Wuhan area aged 18-60 years of age.
外围影响英国高额补贴企业发工资保就业遏止裁员大潮。
The peripheral impact of the United Kingdom's highly subsidized wage employment to stem the tide of layoffs.
为缓解新冠病毒对经济的打击，英国宣布了一项史无前例的刺激计划，包括政府历史上首次承担公民的部分工资。
Britain announced an unprecedented stimulus package to soften the economic blow of the new crown virus, including a partial payment for citizens for the first time in the government's history.
财政大臣Rishi Sunak 3 月 20 日宣布了 10 天内的第三套紧急经济救助方案：工作岗位受到病毒威胁的就业者将从政府那里获得至多 80% 的工资，补贴上限为每人每个月 2500 英镑。
Finance Minister Rishi Sunak on March 20 announced his third emergency package for 10 days: workers whose jobs are threatened by the virus will receive up to 80 percent of their wages from the government, with a maximum subsidy of 2,500 pounds a month.
英国政府可能为此至少花费 100 亿英镑。
The British government could spend at least ￡10bn on it.
企业还将获得总值 300 亿英镑的税减免，政府将增值税缴付暂停一个季度。
Businesses will also receive tax breaks worth ￡30bn and the government will suspend VAT payments for a quarter.
房客和自雇就业者也将获得一些帮助。
Tenants and self-employed people will also receive some help.
摩根大通经济学家 Allan Monks 表示：“这些措施是史无前例的，而且英国政府相当于做出了不惜一切代价的承诺。
"These measures are unprecedented and amount to a commitment by the UK government at all costs," said Allan Monks, economist at JPMorgan Chase.
” Monks 估计政府措施的总成本占 GDP 的 4％。
"Monks estimates the total cost of government action at 4% of GDP.
外贸业订单骤降，两周内从招工困难变无工可复。
Foreign trade orders plummeted, and within two weeks there was no work to be done.
刚刚复工的外贸行业再次陷入冰点。
Foreign trade, which had just resumed work, was again frozen.
据《财新》，多地外贸厂商反映，由于欧美地区疫情形势变化迅速，消费预期收缩，品牌纷纷取消或收缩外贸订单规模。
According to Caixin, many foreign trade companies report that their foreign trade orders have been cancelled or shrunk as a result of rapid changes in the epidemiological situation in Europe and the United States and shrinking consumer expectations.
多数接受财新采访的外贸企业感到无助：“欧洲市场全面歇火”、“行情很不好，全世界感觉要瘫痪了”、“整体可能比 08 年还严重”。
Most foreign trade companies interviewed by Caixin felt helpless: "European markets are completely shut down," "the market is very bad, the world feels paralyzed," "the overall may be more serious than 2008."
3 月 16 日，商务部公布数据称全国重点外贸企业复工呈现加速恢复态势，除湖北外，全国 66.7% 的重点外贸企业复产率超过 70%。
On March 16, the Ministry of Commerce released data that state key foreign trade enterprises are resuming work at an accelerated rate, with the exception of Hubei, where the rate of rebirth of 66.7 percent of key foreign trade enterprises exceeds 70 percent.
商务部也提醒，外贸行业可能面临订单减少的情况。
The Ministry of Commerce also warned that the foreign trade industry may face a reduction in orders.
这些外卖企业的对策包括停止招聘，想办法转内销或者去疫情影响较轻的市场找增量。
These takeaway strategies include stopping hiring and finding ways to sell domestically or to find additions to markets that are less affected by the epidemic.
舆论关注拜耳员工遭开除后被注销居留许可。
Public opinion is concerned about Bayer employees were expelled from the residence permit.
拜耳员工隔离期间不佩戴口罩在小区跑步一事持续引发关注。
The fact that Bayer employees do not wear masks in the neighborhood during isolation continues to cause concern.
3 月 19 日，北京警方透露，跑步的梁某为澳籍人士，已注销其工作类居留许可，要求限期离境。
On March 19, Beijing police revealed that Liang, an Australian national, had cancelled his work-type residence permit and asked to leave the country by a specified date.
此前，跑步视频流传网络两天后，拜耳中国发布声明称，已辞退该员工。
Earlier, two days after running video circulated online, Bayer China issued a statement saying it had fired the employee.
小留学生滞留英国，166 家庭联名申请领事保护。
Small students stayed in the UK and 166 families jointly applied for consular protection.
3 月 16 日，英国小留学生家长向中国外交部、驻英国大使馆发送了一份《关于对滞留在英国的未成年中国小留学生开展领事保护的申请》，呼吁政府组织包机，接没有自我保护能力的未成年孩子回国。
Parents of young British students sent an application for consular protection to Chinese underage students staying in the UK to the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the British Embassy on March 16, calling on the government to organize charters to take home underage children who cannot protect themselves.
中国驻英大使刘晓明在北京时间 3 月 18 日晚接受央视采访时称，中国在英国有大约 1.5 万小留学生。
Liu Xiaoming, China's ambassador to the UK, told CCTV on the night of March 18 that China had about 15,000 small students studying in the UK.
英国是有中国小留学生最多的国家。
Britain is the country with the largest number of Chinese small students.
这些小留学生的年龄跨度在 10—17 岁，平均年龄在 14 岁左右。
These young students range in age from 10 to 17, with an average age of about 14.
3 月 18 日，为应对新冠肺炎疫情，英国宣布关闭所有学校。
On 18 March, in response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, the United Kingdom announced the closure of all schools.
多位家长称，由于学校关闭，留学生们无法继续住宿，回国机票一票难求，有的寄宿家庭已明确拒绝接收中国留学生。
Many parents said students could no longer stay at home because of the school's closure. Some host families have explicitly refused to accept Chinese students.
不少武汉医护人员核酸阴性抗体阳性，因为在确诊名单外难以获得补助。
Many Wuhan medical personnel nucleic acid-negative antibody positive, because of the difficulties in identifying outside the list of subsidies.
近日，《财新》记者了解到，除了红会医院，长江航运总医院、武汉市第一医院、武汉市第七医院、武汉市中心医院、武汉市汉阳医院等均存在早期感染症状的医护人员因没做核酸检测或核酸检测呈阴性，又错过依据 CT 影像学特征就能列入“临床诊断”病例从而进入新冠肺炎名单的窗口期，他们中的部分人尽管抗体检测显示 IgM 和 IgG 抗体双阳或 IgG 抗体单阳，但也没能顺利确诊，难以获得相应补助和资助。
Recently, the reporter learned that in addition to the Red Cross Hospital, Changjiang Shipping General Hospital, Wuhan City Hospital No. 1, Wuhan City Hospital No. 7, Wuhan City Central Hospital, Wuhan Hanyang Hospital, etc., some of them were unable to successfully diagnose IgM and IgG antibody diyang or IgG antibody mono-yang.
IgM抗体是新近感染的指标，IgG抗体产生则是既往感染的标志，既可能是感染后进入恢复期，还有可能已经痊愈，但抗体仍然存在。
IgM antibody is an indicator of new infection, IgG antibody production is a sign of previous infection, either after infection into convalescence, may have recovered, but antibodies still exist.
目前，其中一部分还在居家隔离或接受治疗，也有不少人已返岗重上一线。
Some of them are now isolated or treated at home, and many have returned to work on the front lines.
文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e_ncOV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg/edit《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报》，可复制链接后科学上网打开。
All news and sources in the article can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 1HjYdVnv7XyvP-e _ ncoV4Gu-smyObp72E22yxGKJbfHg / edit The Daily Coronavirus Pneumonia Daily Outbreak Report, which can be accessed online by copying links.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
​全球新冠病毒死亡人数过万，内地累计输入病例达到 269 例等13条新闻。
More than 10,000 people died from the disease, with 269 imported cases from the mainland and 13 news items.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "​全球新冠病毒死亡人数过万，内地累计输入病例达到 269 例等13条新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; &
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We've selected RPG's important news for you;;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
