解密 “救命神器”ECMO。
Decrypt ECMO, the "life-saving artifact."
黄金萍。
Duckweed.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲ICU病人需要24小时的密切监测。
ICU patients require close 24-hour monitoring.
左边的病人用上了体外膜肺氧合治疗(ECMO)。
The patient on the left received extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).
（南方周末记者 翁洹/图）全文共4653字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
(Southern Weekend Reporter Weng Huan / Figure) The full text is 4653 words and it takes about 7 minutes to read.
吉本花了23年时间发明这款机器、进行动物实验，其间他还曾入伍参加二战，复员后继续投入研发。
Gibbon spent 23 years inventing the machine and experimenting with animals, and during that time he joined the World War II army and went on to research and development.
ECMO设备本身价格在100万元到300万元之间，医院采购并不难，但使用成本高。
ECMO equipment itself prices between 1 million yuan and 3 million yuan, hospital procurement is not difficult, but high cost.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 黄金萍责任编辑 | 顾策在新冠肺炎疫情的阴影之下，一款名为ECMO（体外膜肺氧合，Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation）的体外生命支持设备，意外获得公众前所未有的关注和期待。
Initiated at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
2020年1月22日，武汉大学中南医院首次使用ECMO成功救治一位重症新冠肺炎患者。
On January 22, 2020, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital used ECMO to successfully treat a case of severe new crown pneumonia.
ECMO可以替代人的肺脏和心脏功能，在体外进行血液、呼吸循环支持，为患者赢得救治时间，被称作“救命神器”。
ECMO can replace human lung and heart function, in vitro blood, respiratory cycle support, to win time for patients, known as "life-saving artifact.
作为一个急救类医疗器械，ECMO此前一直很小众，产品数量有限，只有美国、欧洲、日本约十家企业生产。
As an emergency medical device, ECMO has been small, limited number of products, only the United States, Europe, Japan about 10 enterprises.
此前，中国医师协会体外生命支持专业委员会发布的数据显示，截至2018年底，中国仅有260个ECMO中心。
Earlier, according to data released by the Association of Chinese Physicians Committee on Extracorporeal Life Support, there were only 260 ECMO centers in China by the end of 2018.
粗略估算，它们持有的ECMO设备约400台。
A rough estimate of their holdings of ECMO equipment is about 400.
已持续三个月的新冠肺炎疫情，让ECMO变得炙手可热。
The outbreak of pneumonia in the new crown, which has lasted for three months, has made ECMO hot.
南方周末记者不完全统计，2020年1月下旬－3月上旬，中国在不到两个月时间里进口的ECMO数量已超过100台。
According to Southern Weekend's not-so-complete statistics, China imported more than 100 ECMO's in less than two months between late January and early March 2020.
同时，一批中国医疗器械公司正紧急投入这一医疗器械的研发和产业化。
Meanwhile, a group of Chinese medical device companies are urgently investing in the development and industrialization of this medical device.
“这次疫情，正好是非常现实的教材。
"This outbreak is a very realistic textbook.
”德国品牌ECMO设备中国代理商李军对南方周末记者表示，疫情正在为ECMO做一场前所未有的市场教育。
Li Jun, China agent for the German brand ECMO, told Southern Weekend that the outbreak was providing ECMO with an unprecedented market education.
1半个世纪前的发明ECMO并非横空出世的英雄，它的历史最早可以追溯到半个世纪以前、世界第一例体外循环心脏外科手术。
The invention of ECMO a half-century ago is not a heroic creation. Its history goes back half a century to the world's first cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.
1953年，美国医生吉本（John Heysham Gibbon），成功为一名患者实施房间隔缺损修复术。
In 1953, the American physician John Heysham Gibbon successfully performed an atrial septal defect repair for a patient.
这一手术的关键在于使用了吉本所设计发明的一个机器，短时间替代患者的心肺功能，辅助血液供氧，实现体外循环运转45分钟。
The key to the procedure is a machine designed by Gibbons to replace the heart and lungs of patients for a short time, to help provide oxygen to the blood and to circulate for 45 minutes.
这是最早的人工心肺机。
This is the earliest artificial cardiopulmonary machine.
在此之前，吉本花了23年时间发明这款机器、进行动物实验，其间他还曾入伍参加二战，复员后继续投入研发。
Gibbons had spent 23 years inventing the machine and experimenting with animals, and during that time he joined the World War II army and continued his research and development.
以此作为开端，人工心肺机两个主要部件——氧合器和血泵的材料和技术不断向前演进和发展，并陆续有公司将其商业化推向市场，之后在医疗器械产品中开辟了体外循环支持这一门类。
As a starting point, the materials and technology of the two main components of the artificial heart-lung machine, the oxygenator and the blood pump, are constantly evolving and developing.
它应用人工管道将人体大血管与人工心肺机连接，从静脉系统引出静脉血，并在体外氧合，再经血泵将氧合血输回动脉系统的全过程，又称心肺转流，主要应用于心脏、大血管手术。
It is used to connect the large blood vessels of the human body with the artificial heart-lung machine, to extract blood from the venous system and to oxygenate in vitro, and to pump oxygen and blood back into the arterial system, also known as cardiopulmonary bypass, mainly for heart and large vessel surgery.
吉本发明的体外循环支持设备，被称为CPB（Cardiopulmonary Bypass），因其设备体积大，主要放在手术室，在有限的心外科手术时间内暂时替代人体的心肺功能。
Gibbon's invention of cardiopulmonary bypass support equipment, known as the CPB (Cardiovascular ByPass), is a bulky device that is mainly placed in an operating room to temporarily replace the human cardiopulmonary function during limited cardiac surgery time.
东莞科威医疗器械有限公司制造ECMO设备膜式氧合器等耗材，该公司市场经理洪眸对南方周末记者介绍，传统的心脏手术一般只要几小时，体外循环设备大很多，耗材费用也低；ECMO和它的原理其实是一样的，但体型更小，而且ECMO一般要能维持几百个小时，所以它们的心泵、涂层等构成不一样。
Hong Eyre, marketing manager of Dongguan Covey Medical Device Co., Ltd., tells Southern Weekend that traditional heart surgery usually takes only a few hours, with much larger extracorporeal equipment and lower material costs. ECMO is the same principle, but smaller and ECMO can last hundreds of hours, so its heart pump, coating and so on.
1971年，希尔医生（J Donald Hill）及其团队，为一位患成人呼吸窘迫综合征的患者，提供了3天的心肺功能支持，开创长时间生命支持纪录，开启了ECMO时代。
In 1971, Dr. J. Donald Hill and his team began the ECMO era by providing three days of cardio-pulmonary support to a patient with adult respiratory distress syndrome, creating a long-term life-support record.
不过，在1979年、1994年，关于ECMO临床应用的两个随机对照研究（RCT）显示，重症ARDS（呼吸窘迫综合征）患者随机接受传统通气或者ECMO治疗，组间病死率无明显差异，这一结果使得ECMO被冷落一旁，主要应用于婴幼儿的心肺衰竭治疗。
However, in 1979 and 1994, two randomized controlled studies (RCT) of clinical use of ECMO showed that patients with severe ARDS (respiratory distress syndrome) received either conventional or ECMO treatment at random, with no significant difference in mortality between the groups, a result that left ECMO unattended, mainly for the treatment of heart and lung failure in infants.
直到2009年，《柳叶刀》杂志发表了第三个ECMO治疗ARDS的RCT研究结果，表明ECMO组6个月内存活且能生活自理者占63%，比传统治疗组高出16个百分点。
Until 2009, The Lancet published the results of a third RCT study of ECMO treatment of ARDS, which showed that 63 per cent of ECMO patients survived and were able to live on their own within six months, 16 percentage points higher than the traditional treatment group.
同年，在《美国医学会杂志》发表的一篇治疗因H1N1感染导致的重症ARDS患者的临床研究显示，约1/3机械通气患者接受了ECMO治疗，存活率79%。
In the same year, a clinical study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association for the treatment of severe ARDS patients with H1N1 infection showed that approximately one third of patients with mechanical ventilation received ECMO treatment, a survival rate of 79 per cent.
ECMO的地位开始提升，并越来越多地应用于成人。
ECMO's status has begun to rise and is increasingly being applied to adults.
ECMO性能也在不断提升，目前主流的ECMO采用了3M生产的一种名为聚甲基戊烯（PMP）氧压膜的长效氧压膜，它在长达两三个月运转后也不会出现血浆渗漏或是氧合性能下降。
ECMO performance is also improving, the mainstream ECMO has adopted a 3M production of a polymethyl pentene (PMP) oxygen pressure film, long-acting oxygen pressure film, after two or three months of operation, does not have plasma leakage or reduced oxygen compatibility.
除了呼吸窘迫综合征、心肺衰竭，ECMO在心脏移植等方面也有应用场景。
In addition to respiratory distress syndrome, heart and lung failure, ECMO in heart transplantation and other aspects of the application scene.
1990年代，中国也开始了ECMO治疗方法。
In the 1990 "s, China also began ECMO therapy.
1993年，中国医学科学院心血管病研究所、阜外医院龙村等8名医生，在《中国循环杂志》1993年第8卷第8期发表论文《体外循环膜肺支持疗法（附一例临床报告）》，介绍他们一例病例在临床中使用ECMO的过程和经验教训。
In 1993, eight doctors, including the Cardiovascular Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Longcun Hospital in Fuoutside Hospital, published the paper Extracorporeal Circulatory Membrane Pulmonary Support Therapy (with a clinical report) in the Chinese Journal of Circulation, vol. 8, No. 8, 1993.
这篇稿件的收稿时间是1991年7月，这是中国最早有记录的使用ECMO的病例。
The manuscript was received in July 1991, the first recorded case of ECMO use in China.
虽然论文说是ECMO，但它仍属于CPB范畴，所采用的设备包括循环机、膜肺、血氧饱和度仪、温度检测仪、心电监护仪等等，都是来自各海外品牌的现场组合。
Although the paper says ECMO, it is still within the CPB category, using equipment such as circulators, membranes, oxygen saturation meters, temperature detectors, ECG monitors, etc., all from overseas brands.
这次治疗虽以失败告终，但是ECMO延长了患者生命，尤其使其肺部病变明显改善。
Although the treatment failed, ECMO prolonged the patient's life and led to significant improvements in lung disease in particular.
直到2002年，中山市人民医院才首次使用ECMO救治了一名急性暴发性心肌炎患者，成为中国内地最早一例真正意义上的ECMO支持病例。
It was not until 2002 that Zhongshan People's Hospital used ECMO for the first time to treat an acute fulminant myocarditis, becoming the first truly ECMO-supported case in mainland China.
但此后，这一设备并没有得到大范围推广，每年新增的ECMO中心在10家左右，2015年才终于突破104家。
But since then, the device has not been widely used, with around 10 new ECMO centers added each year, before finally surpassing 104 in 2015.
2017年6月，中国医师协会体外生命支持专业委员会正式成立，开始在全国开展体外生命支持组织（ELSO）规范调查，了解全国ECMO现状。
In June 2017, the Specialist Committee on Extracorporeal Life Support of the Chinese Physicians' Association was formally established and began conducting a nationwide survey on the status of ECMO in the country.
这一年，中国的ECMO有了飞跃式发展，全国共计有233家ECMO中心，比2016年增加了91家；全年辅助2826例数，比2016年增长了129%。
This year, China's ECMO made a great leap forward, with 233 ECMO centres nationwide, 91 more than in 2016, and 2,826 assisted cases throughout the year, an increase of 129 per cent over 2016.
到了2018年，中国ECMO中心数量增至260家、辅助例数3923例，这一年在国际ELSO注册的全球ECMO病例数为10423例，中国约占其中的37.6%，比2017年的占比提高近10个百分点。
By 2018, the number of ECMO centers in China had increased to 260 and the number of auxiliary cases 3,923, with 10,423 worldwide ECMO cases registered in the same year, with China accounting for about 37.6 per cent of them, an increase of nearly 10 percentage points over 2017.
2018年中国人口约占全球的18%，中国ECMO应用情况领先全球平均水平。
With China's population accounting for about 18% of the world's population in 2018, China's ECMO use is ahead of the global average.
2疫情带来的机遇2020年初暴发的新冠肺炎疫情，让ECMO迎来了高光时刻。
2 The outbreak of new crown pneumonia in early 2020, the opportunity presented by the epidemic, ushered in a high-light moment for ECMO.
2020年1月22日，武汉大学中南医院首次使用ECMO成功救治一位重症新冠肺炎患者。
On January 22, 2020, Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital used ECMO to successfully treat a case of severe new crown pneumonia.
同一天，在国家卫健委印发的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》（试行第三版），正式将ECMO纳入其中，同时它还出现在中国医学装备协会推荐的疫情防治所需设备清单里。
On the same day, ECMO was formally included in the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection" (3rd edition on a trial basis) issued by the National Health and Physical Fitness Commission.
当时，中国企业纷纷通过转产、扩产的方式，供应口罩、防护服等医用防护用品，但在ECMO设备扩产方面却难以实施。
At the time, Chinese enterprises supplied medical protective equipment such as masks and protective clothing through conversion and expansion, but it was difficult to implement ECMO equipment expansion.
3月4日，在国务院联防联控机制举行的发布会上，工信部装备工业一司司长罗俊杰介绍，疫情期间共向湖北发送了67台ECMO设备，其中29台是紧急从国外采购，其余是向各省求援、从各地征调。
On March 4, 2007, Lu Junjie, director of Equipment Industry I of the Ministry of Industry and Communications, delivered 67 ECMO equipment to Hubei during the epidemic.
截至3月13日，在中国医学装备协会推荐的疫情防治所需设备清单（共五批）中，体外膜肺氧合机(ECMO)的供应商一共有7家，其中只有1家是中国企业——天津汇康医用设备有限公司（以下简称“天津汇康”）。
As of March 13, out of a total of five batches of equipment recommended by the China Medical Equipment Association (CMA), only one of the seven suppliers of ECMO is a Chinese enterprise - Tianjin Huikang Medical Equipment Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "Tianjin Huikang").
天津汇康是一家从1993年开始做人工心肺机的中国企业，其市场部职员刘林对南方周末记者坦言，公司还没有真正的ECMO产品。
Tianjin Huikang, a Chinese company that started making artificial heart-lung machines in 1993, admitted to Southern Weekend reporter Liu Lin, a marketing staff member, that the company does not yet have a real ECMO product.
公司一直在做体外支持产品，但走的是心脏手术体外支持路线，设备采用的是滚压泵，使用时间长了血液细胞会受损，与ECMO采用的离心泵并不是同一个技术路线。
The company has been doing in-vitro support products, but heart surgery is an external support route, equipment using a rolling pump, the use of blood cells will damage long-term damage, and ECMO used centrifugal pump is not the same line of technology.
其实早在新中国成立后，中国的医院也启动了体外循环研究，并研发出转碟式、鼓泡式氧合器，并有了自己的人工心肺机。
In fact, since the founding of the People's Republic of China, Chinese hospitals have also launched research on cardiopulmonary bypass and developed rotary and bubble-type oxygenators, as well as their own artificial heart-lung machines.
但在“文革”十年，这些研发被迫停止，技术也落后于海外。
But during the Cultural Revolution, such research and development was halted, and technology lagged behind overseas.
1980年代，医院开始陆续引进国外的体外循环机、膜肺、离心泵等产品，展开体外循环支持临床。
In the 1980s, hospitals began to introduce foreign cardiopulmonary bypass, membrane lung, centrifugal pump and other products to support clinical cardiopulmonary bypass.
目前，中国医疗机构所有的ECMO设备，都来自海外进口。
At present, all ECMO equipment in Chinese medical institutions is imported from overseas.
在刘林看来，这一市场格局并不奇怪。
In Liu's view, this market pattern is not surprising.
ECMO离心泵的研发成本太高，一般中国民营医疗器械企业很难承担；ECMO耗材费用也很贵，使用率也不高。
ECMO centrifugal pump research and development costs are too high, the general Chinese private medical equipment enterprises can not bear; ECMO consumption costs are also very expensive, the use rate is not high.
肖明是广州一家三甲医院的麻醉科副主任医师，执业13年，他对南方周末记者表示，迄今自己在本院只见到过2次ECMO病例，都是患者在心脏外科手术之后仍无法脱离体外循环设备，出了手术室之后使用ECMO过渡。
Xiao Ming, a 13-year-old deputy chief anesthesiologist at a three-A hospital in Guangzhou, told Southern Weekend that he had seen only two ECMO cases at the hospital so far.
南方周末记者从多家医院了解到，ECMO设备本身价格在100万元到300万元之间，医院采购并不难，但使用成本高。
Southern Weekend reporter learned from a number of hospitals, ECMO equipment itself price between 1 million yuan and 3 million yuan, hospital procurement is not difficult, but high cost.
不同品牌的ECMO开机费用从2.5万元－7万元不等，主要是包括离心泵头、管道、膜肺等在内的一套耗材费用，此外每天监测、分析、用药费用，从几千元到万元不等，如果患者是在ICU中使用，价格更高，且在多数地区不能纳入医保报销。
ECMO start-up costs for different brands range from 25,000 yuan to 70,000 yuan, mainly for a set of consumables including centrifugal head, pipe, membrane lungs, etc., in addition to daily monitoring, analysis and medication costs, ranging from several thousand yuan to 10,000 yuan, if the patient is used in ICU, the price is higher, and in most areas cannot be included in the medical insurance reimbursement.
“平时很少人做ECMO，因为性价比低。
"Usually very few people do ECMO, because the price is low.
”肖明对南方周末记者说，这次ECMO临时性纳入医保基金支付范围，可以使用的病例多了，“如果早期插管上ECMO，部分患者可能抢救回来，如果太迟了，并没有用。
Xiao told Southern Weekend that the ECMO was temporarily included in the Medicare plan to pay for a larger number of cases available. "If ECMO is inserted in the early catheter, some patients may be rescued, but it is useless if it is too late," he told Southern Weekend.
”李军的公司，却在这次疫情中看到了ECMO从小众走向大众的希望，他们在这次疫情之后开始内部讨论，最终决定立项做ECMO。
Li Jun's company, however, saw the ECMO move from a small crowd to a mass of hope in the wake of the outbreak, and began internal discussions that led to the decision to set up an ECMO.
他对南方周末记者说，ECMO应用场景越来越广，急救、ICU等很多科室都要配备，二甲医院等也会加入，未来中国医院的采购量肯定会增加。
He told Southern Weekend reporter that ECMO application scene is more and more extensive, first aid, ICU and many other departments have to be equipped, Erfa Hospital will also join, the future of Chinese hospitals will definitely increase the volume of procurement.
3国产化难在哪？南方周末记者从多位采访对象处了解到，2020年3月初，中国工信部召集了一次电话会议，有二十多家与ECMO相关的企业代表参会，交流各自的产品进展和研发进展，国家鼓励他们研发攻关，并表示会给予支持。
At the beginning of March 2020, China's Ministry of Industry and Communications held a conference call with representatives of more than 20 ECMO-related enterprises to exchange information on the progress of their products and research and development.
3月5日，广东药监局官网也发布消息称，广东省医疗器械质量监督检验所组织召开国家药监局体外循环器械重点实验室专题工作会议，研究开展ECMO标准和技术研究，为企业ECMO研发提供技术支持，推进ECMO国产化进程，填补产品国内空白。
The Guangdong Provincial Institute of Medical Device Quality Supervision and Inspection organized a special workshop for key laboratories of the State Administration of Pharmacy to study ECMO standards and techniques, provide technical support for ECMO research and development, promote the localization process of ECMO and fill the domestic gap, the bureau said.
接近该实验室的人士李依霖告诉南方周末记者，目前已经有天津、西安两家主攻膜肺的企业、一家主攻离心泵的天津企业与之接洽。
Li Yilin, a person close to the lab, told Southern Weekend reporter that Tianjin, Xi'an, two enterprises specializing in membrane lung, a major attack on centrifugal pump Tianjin enterprises with it.
李依霖长期从事医疗器械技术工作，在他看来，宽泛地看，中国并非没有ECMO，ECMO是一个由不同部件组成的系统，一些企业能够生产其中的部件，而且这些部件都可以分开注册、单独使用。
Mr. Li, who has long worked on medical-device technology, sees China not broadly as free of ECMO, a system of components that some companies can produce and that can be registered separately and used separately.
ECMO主要由膜式氧合器、离心泵组成，李依霖把它类比为铅笔和橡皮，中国企业已经分别会做铅笔和橡皮了，但还没有能力把它们结合起来。
ECMO is made up mainly of membrane oxygenators and centrifugal pumps, which Li likens to pencils and erasers, which Chinese companies already do, but have not yet been able to combine.
ECMO没有国产，国内还没有可用的离心泵，膜肺还未能证明能长期使用，系统也没能集成。
ECMO is not home-grown, there is no available centrifugal pump, membrane lung has not proved to be able to long-term use, the system has not integrated.
如果一定要给ECMO国产技术难度排序，山东大学电气工程学院教授刘淑琴对南方周末记者说，人工心（即动力泵）排第一，其次是人工肺（氧合器），然后是控制系统。
'Artificial hearts (i.e. power pumps) come first, followed by artificial lungs (oxygenators) and then control systems, 'Liu Shuqin, a professor at Shandong University's School of Electrical Engineering, told Southern Weekend.
刘淑琴今年62岁，此前研究方向主要为磁悬浮轴承理论与高速旋转机械，很多人一看到这个首先想到的是轨道交通。
Liu Shuqin, 62, had previously studied magnetic levitation bearing theory and high-speed rotating machinery, and many people first thought of rail transit.
不过她表示自己已经研究磁悬浮人工心脏泵十多年了。
But she said she had studied magnetic levitation heart pumps for more than a decade.
这次疫情期间，她和团队做了一款国产ECMO样机，已经完整运行了三十多天，正在动物实验阶段。
During the outbreak, she and her team made a home-made ECMO prototype, which has been running for more than 30 days and is in the animal testing stage.
刘淑琴团队公开表示，样机各项参数可与德国Maquet产品相媲美，指标达到国际先进水平。
Liu Shuqin's team publicly said that the parameters of the prototype can be compared with the German Maquet products, the indicators reached the international advanced level.
她对南方周末记者称，ECMO的控制系统集成，通过各种传感器来测量人体的生理指标，相当于数据采集和控制，目前海外品牌还有很大改进空间。
She told Southern Weekend that ECMO's integrated control system, which measures human physiology through a variety of sensors, is equivalent to data acquisition and control, and there is still much room for improvement for overseas brands.
不过以涉及知识产权为由，她不愿意透露过多信息。
But she was reluctant to disclose too much information on intellectual property rights.
刘淑琴希望能找到公司合作量产。
Liu Shuqin hopes to find a company production cooperation.
消息发出不到一周时间，她向南方周末记者表示，已经有深圳、上海、重庆、成都很多公司找上门来。
Less than a week later, she told Southern Weekend that many companies from Shenzhen, Shanghai, Chongqing and Chengdu had turned up.
刘淑琴坦言，“量产的时间还很难说，但我们会全力配合企业，不会在技术上耽误时间，最后要看企业情况、拿注册证的情况。
'It's hard to say how long it will take, 'says Ms. Liu.' But we'll do our best to cooperate with the company.
”洪眸向南方周末记者感叹，欧美起步时间早很多，中国医疗器械企业很长时间都在帮人代工，做一些低价值耗材，哪些赚钱做哪些，民营企业也负担不起高昂的研发费用。
Hong Yue lamented to Southern Weekend reporters that the start-up time in Europe and the US was much earlier and that Chinese medical device companies had long been helping people with low-value supplies and making money, and that private enterprises could not afford the high research and development costs.
第三方网站QMED最新发布的《2019年医疗器械企业百强榜单》显示，全球营收最高的医疗器械公司还是集中在欧美地区。
The third-party website QMED's latest Top 100 List of Medical Devices Companies for 2019 shows that the world's biggest medical-device companies are still concentrated in Europe and the US.
美敦力在2019年以308.91亿美元依然位居榜首。
Medtronic remained at the top with $30.891 billion in 2019.
中国有7家公司上榜，排在最前面的是迈瑞医疗，以23.09亿美元的营收排名第34；洪眸所在企业的母公司微创医疗也入围榜单，排名第63，营收6.64亿美元。
At the top of the list were seven Chinese companies, including Merrill Lynch, which finished 34th with $2.309 billion in revenue, and MicroStart, the company's parent company, which also made it to No. 63 with $664 million.
ECMO需要时间和技术积累，从全球排名前三的ECMO供应商看，美敦力全球第一，迈柯唯（Maquet）属于瑞典洁定（Getinge Group），索林（Sorin）则属于英国理诺珐（LivaNova，NASDAQ:LIVN)，两家公司都是长期专注心血管领域的企业，在百强榜单上分别排29名和50名。
ECMO takes time and skill to accumulate, with Medtronic leading the world in terms of its top three ECMO suppliers, while Maquet belongs to the Swedish Getinge Group and Sorin to the UK's Liva Nova (NASDAQ: LIVN), both long-time cardiovascular companies, with 29 and 50 places in the top 100.
李依霖对南方周末记者表示，ECMO是一个相对小众的医疗器械，行业未来发展还很难说。
Li Yilin told Southern Weekend reporter that ECMO is a relatively small number of medical devices, the industry's future development is difficult to say.
如果不是新冠肺炎，每年手术病例不多，投资回报率并不高。
If it were not for the new crown pneumonia, the annual number of surgical cases, the return on investment is not high.
最终还是要看企业的战略、技术力量和经费。
Ultimately, it depends on the enterprise's strategy, technical strength and funding.
ECMO如果能够国产的话，一系列使用成本肯定会降下来，但更希望能有大企业参与。
If ECMO is able to produce at home, a series of use costs will certainly come down, but would prefer to have big business participation.
多个采访对象向南方周末记者预测他们的ECMO国产时间预期，从三年到十年不等。
Several interviewees predicted to Southern Weekend reporters that their ECMO domestic time estimates range from three to ten years.
洪眸告诉南方周末记者，“各省的企业、高校已经行动起来，江苏、深圳已经有公司在申请了，大家热情很高，人人都在抢，最终要看谁能走在前面。
"Enterprises and universities in all provinces have already taken action," Hong told Southern Weekend reporter. "Jiangsu and Shenzhen companies are already applying.
”（应受访者要求，李军、刘林、肖明、李依霖为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
At the request of the respondents, Li Jun, Liu Lin, Xiao Ming and Li Yilin poked the pictures below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
解密 “救命神器”ECMO。
Decrypt ECMO, the "life-saving artifact."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "解密 “救命神器”ECMO";。
var msg _ title = & quot; decrypt & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
