下一站，回家。
Next stop. Home.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
The following article comes from 守候微光。
The following article comes from waits for the light.
Author 中国青年报。
Author China Youth Daily.
守候微光。
Waiting for the light.
大家一起凝视的， 既是我们的生活，也是历史的脉络。
What we gaze upon together is not only our life, but also the thread of history.
中国青年报摄影部公众平台，生产真诚严肃的社会纪实摄影，品读新鲜有益的全球视觉资讯，帮助年轻的你看身旁、看远方。
China Youth Daily Photography Department public platform, production of sincere and serious social documentary photography, reading fresh and beneficial global visual information, to help young you look at the side, see the distance.
。
.
3月13日晚，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，一名刚刚到达这里的康复隔离人员在走廊上眺望天空。
On the night of March 13, a convalescent quarantined man at Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College looked up into the sky.
他们都是从方舱医院和各医疗机构治愈出院的新冠肺炎患者，将在这里接受14天的隔离观察，这是他们回家前的最后一站。
All of them had been discharged from Fang's Hospital and various medical institutions for 14 days of isolation, their last stop before returning home.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄中青报·中青网记者 赵迪 摄影报道3月10日，34岁的张蒙躺在湖北大学康复驿站的床上，呆望着天花板上的灯管，她还是不能相信自己出院后核酸检测的结果呈阳性。
Zhang Meng, 34, was lying on her bed at Hubei University's rehabilitation center, staring at the tube on the ceiling. She was still unable to believe that she had tested positive for nucleic acid after being discharged from the hospital.
张蒙的家庭遭受了新冠病毒的重创。
Mr. Zhang's family has been hard hit by the new crown virus.
两个月的时间里，60岁的母亲离开了，父亲住进了武汉大学人民医院东院的重症病房，她和丈夫也被感染了。
Two months later, her 60-year-old mother left and her father was admitted to the intensive care unit in the East Hospital of Wuhan University.
检测结果出来的第二天，一觉醒来，眼泪从张蒙的眼角滑落，她又一次想起了一家人在这场风暴中的点滴。
The next day after the test results came out, tears rolled out of Zhang Meng's eyes and she remembered the family's every drop in the storm once again.
2月29日，张蒙和丈夫从武昌方舱医院出院后，住进了湖北大学康复驿站。
Feb. 29, Zhang Meng and her husband from Wuchang cabin hospital discharged from the Hubei University rehabilitation station.
这个由学生公寓改造的集中隔离观察点，被称为武汉最大的康复驿站，可入住1300人，专门接收从方舱医院和各医疗机构出院的新冠肺炎患者。
Known as Wuhan's largest rehabilitation post, this centralized observation point, converted by students' apartments, can accommodate 1,300 people and is specially designed to receive patients with Newcomrown Pneumonia discharged from the Fangcao Hospital and various medical institutions.
根据相关要求，新冠肺炎治愈患者要在康复驿站进行为期14天的隔离和医学观察，达到医学标准后，才能解除隔离回家。
According to the requirements, patients with CIP should be quarantined and medically observed for 14 days at rehabilitation stations before being released from isolation and returned to their families.
从确诊到恢复正常生活，康复驿站是他们回家前的最后一站。
From diagnosis to rehabilitation, the rehabilitation station is their last stop before returning home.
2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，医务人员张清抬头查看楼上的情况。
February 27, Wuhan Vocational College of Software Engineering rehabilitation station, medical staff Zhang Qing looked up to see the situation upstairs.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，一名康复隔离人员在锻炼。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net journalist Zhao Di / She Feb. 27, Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College rehabilitation post, a rehabilitation quarantine personnel in the exercise.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，在等待拿饭的间隙，康复隔离人员们短暂交流。
Zhongqing Pao Zhongqing News Network reporter Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, waiting for the time to get food, the rehabilitation quarantine personnel brief exchanges.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，一名工作人员在给康复隔离人员送饭。
Zhongqing Pao Zhongqing News Network reporter Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, a staff member is delivering food to the rehabilitation quarantine personnel.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，医护人员在帮黎婧看胸片。
China Youth Daily: Zhao Di / She February 27, Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College rehabilitation station, medical staff in Li Jing, watching a chest film.
黎婧是一名插画师，隔离期间，她画了许多关于疫情的漫画。
Li Jing was an illustrator. During her isolation, she drew many cartoons about the epidemic.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，黎婧展示自己绘制的疫情主题漫画。
Zhongqing Daily: Zhao Di / She Feb 27, Wuhan Institute of Software Engineering, rehabilitation post, Li Jing shows her own cartoon on the subject of the epidemic.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄据在此工作的医疗志愿者方广斌介绍，在湖北大学康复驿站的7栋楼里，目前入住了超过千名隔离观察人员。
Zhao Guanbin, a reporter for the China Youth Daily, said more than a thousand quarantined people were staying in seven buildings at Hubei University's rehabilitation station.
他们的身份形形色色，有退休老人、公务员、商贩、教师、被感染的医护人员，还有高三学生。
Their identities range from retired elders, civil servants, vendors, teachers, infected health-care workers and high school students.
除了武汉本地人，还有外地打工者、过年探亲的家属。
In addition to Wuhan native people, there are also migrant workers, the New Year family visits.
年龄和职业在口罩的遮挡下，已经变得模糊，但每个人都与这座城市的命运紧紧连在一起。
Age and occupation, obscured by masks, have become blurred, but everyone is tied to the fate of the city.
平日，康复驿站楼里是安静的，墙上贴着“中国必胜”“武汉加油”的标语漫画，防护服摩擦的声音常在耳边响起，学校发给老人的收音机里，不时传来新闻播报声。
On weekdays, the rehabilitation of the post-station building is quiet, the wall of the "China will win" and "Wuhan refueling" signs caricatures, protective clothing friction often rings in the ear, the old school radio, from time to time, the sound of the news broadcast.
张蒙和丈夫住在同一层，中间只隔了一道墙。
Zhang Meng and her husband live on the same floor, only separated by a wall.
但和这里的大多数人一样，为了防止出现意外复阳交叉感染，大家都各自待在屋里，只有在等待领饭、一同打热水时才能见面。
But like most people here, to prevent accidental resun infections, everyone stayed indoors and met only when they were waiting for their meals to be served and hot water to be poured together.
有时候，他们也会戴着口罩在门口聊上几分钟。
Sometimes they also talk for a few minutes at the door wearing masks.
每次和孩子视频，他们屏幕上都是3个画面，孩子和奶奶一个，张蒙和丈夫各一个。
Each video with the child, their screen is full of three images, one for the child and the grandmother, one for Zhang Meng and one for her husband.
张蒙觉得，这是隔离点和自己待过的方舱医院最大的不同：方舱医院是敞开的，可以和周围的人聊天说话；而在这里，要一个人独处。
Zhang Meng felt that this was the biggest difference between the quarantine point and the cabin hospital where he had stayed: the cabin hospital was open to talk to the people around him; and here, one had to be alone.
如果不是核酸检测复阳，张蒙会在3月14日同170名两次核酸检测呈阴性、结束14天隔离观察的新冠肺炎康复者一起回到家中。
Had it not been for Fuyang DNA testing, Zhang would have returned home on March 14 with 170 Nucleic Acid-negative patients recovering from 14 days of isolation.
“虽然回到家仍然不能出门，但感觉还是不一样。
"I still can't go out when I get home, but I still feel different.
”张蒙的丈夫两次核酸检测都是阴性，但为了陪妻子，他选择了留下来。
Zhang's husband tested negative for both nucleic acids, but chose to stay with his wife.
对苗阿姨来说，在隔离点的日子成为她最“自我”的时候。
For Aunt Miao, the day at the isolation point became her most "ego".
70岁的她打算在14天内读完余秋雨的《行者无疆》，有时候她也会对着镜子唱唱喜欢的红色歌曲、跳跳舞，那些生活琐事，在这里似乎都已消散。
The 70-year-old plans to finish Yuqiu Yu's Voyager in 14 days, sometimes singing her favorite red songs and dancing in the mirror.
湖北水利水电职业技术学院大二学生小方的隔离点生活还是正常节奏：每天上午10点20分开始上网课，下午5点多结束，其余的时间，他会用来看美剧、综艺节目、听贾斯汀·比伯的歌曲。
The isolation spot for sophomore students at Hubei Hydraulic, Hydroelectric Vocational and Technical College is still a normal rhythm: every morning at 10.20 a.m. and over 5 p.m., the rest of the time, he will watch American TV shows, variety shows and listen to Justin Bieber's songs.
现在，他已经结束隔离回到家中，但他在家也会戴着口罩，和妈妈保持一定距离，他还是担心会发生什么，把母亲传染了。
Now that he's out of quarantine and back home, but he wears a mask at home and keeps his mother at arm's length, he worries about what might happen and infects his mother.
37岁的护士潘雅琴在湖北大学康复驿站正式接收病人的第一天就投入工作了，同在这里工作的医疗志愿者方广斌和同事们要负责上百名患者、24小时值班，但他们都在辛苦之外感到了自豪。
Pan Ya-qin, a 37-year-old nurse, started work on her first day at Hubei University's convalescent station, where Fang Guangbin, a medical volunteer and colleagues who work around the clock for hundreds of patients, are proud of their hard work.
他们和这里其他医护人员一样，喜欢称呼隔离观察人员为“家人”，在他们看来，大家都生活在同一个城市、同一个国家，“当然是家人”。
Like other healthcare professionals here, they like to call the quarantined observer "family." In their view, they all live in the same city, in the same country, "family, of course."
2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，几名医务人员携带中药准备进入隔离区为康复隔离人员理疗。
February 27, Wuhan Institute of Software Engineering Vocational Rehabilitation Station, several medical personnel with Chinese medicine ready to enter the isolation area for the rehabilitation of physiotherapy personnel.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄2月27日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，几名医护人员在询问康复隔离人员近况。
China Youth Daily: Zhao Di / She February 27, Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College rehabilitation station, several medical personnel are asking about the rehabilitation isolation personnel.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄2月27日，武汉软件职业工程学院，一名医务人员在和康复隔离人员沟通。
Zhongqing News, Zhongqing net reporter Zhao Di / She Feb. 27, Wuhan Institute of Software Engineering, a medical personnel and rehabilitation isolation personnel in communication.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，两名康复隔离人员在相互诉说自身的情况。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongyingnet. com journalist Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, two rehabilitation quarantine personnel are telling each other their situation.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，几名康复隔离人员在门口探望。
Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, several rehabilitation quarantine personnel visit at the door.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，一名站在走廊门口的康复隔离人员。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net journalist Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, a rehabilitation isolation personnel standing in the hallway door.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄位于武汉市东湖新技术开发区的武汉软件工程职业学院也设立了康复驿站。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net journalist Zhao Di / She is located in Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College of Donghu New Technology Development Zone of Wuhan City also set up rehabilitation post.
截至3月14日，这里累计收治新冠肺炎治愈患者800余人。
As of March 14, more than 800 patients had been treated for pneumonia.
67岁的刘爱芬3月13日从武汉天佑医院出院后来到这里，在这次疫情中，她的老伴、儿子、儿媳也都被感染了。
Liu Aifen, 67, was discharged from Wuhan Tianyou Hospital on March 13 and her wife, son and daughter-in-law were also infected.
刘爱芬并不担心这里的生活，牙膏牙刷、拖鞋、脸盆、香皂等生活用品，工作人员在他们来之前已经准备好了，一日三餐也是经过悉心搭配的。
Liu Aifen is not worried about life here, toothbrush, slippers, washbasin, soap and other daily necessities, the staff are ready before they come, three meals a day is carefully matched.
刘爱芬是轻症，她没有把一家人感染的事告诉亲戚朋友。
She did not tell her relatives or friends about the infection.
一是怕他们担心，二是不确定出院了如何和他们相处。
One is that they are worried, and the other is not sure how to get along with them.
即便治愈了，她也担心对方如何对待自己。
Even when she is cured, she worries about how her partner treats her.
之前在一个隔离点，一名因密切接触被隔离的男士看她身体没什么问题，就与她畅快地聊了起来，但当得知刘爱芬核酸检测是阳性后，便马上变了态度，即使两人都戴了口罩，他也匆匆离开。
A man who had been in close contact with a quarantined man to see if she was all right talked to her before, but immediately changed his mind when he learned that Liu Aifen's nucleic acid test was positive. Even though both men wore masks, he hurried away.
刘爱芬打算，结束隔离回家后，今年也不再和亲戚朋友聚会了。
After coming home from isolation, Liu plans to stop hanging out with relatives and friends this year.
来自湖北省中医院的张清，从去年12月底就参与到战“疫”工作当中。
Zhang Qing, from the Hubei TCM hospital, has been involved in the battle against the plague since the end of December last year.
目前，他的一部分工作是在武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站、湖北大学康复驿站和洪山康复驿站进行中医康复理疗，包括针灸、足浴、中药调理、太极拳，等等。
At present, part of his work is rehabilitation physiotherapy, including acupuncture, foot bathing, Chinese medicine conditioning, Taijiquan and so on, at Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College rehabilitation post-station, Hubei University rehabilitation station and Hongshan recovery post-station.
通过观察，张清觉得中医对康复期的患者起到了明显作用。
Through observation, Zhang Qing felt that TCM played a significant role in convalescent patients.
“在这次疫情当中，患者对于医生的信任度和依赖性都是之前很少遇到过的”。
"In this case, the level of trust and dependence that patients have on their doctors has rarely been seen before," he said.
疫情期间医患关系的融洽，给张清留下了深刻的印象。
During the epidemic period, the harmonious relationship between doctors and patients left a deep impression on Zhang Qing.
医生冒着生命危险去救治、不计报酬地加班，患者们都看在眼里。
The doctors risked their lives to cure and work overtime recklessly, and the patients saw it.
3月13日，武汉软件工程职业学院康复驿站，一名康复隔离人员由于状况不好需要转出，准备收拾行李离开。
March 13, Wuhan Institute of Software Engineering Vocational School rehabilitation post, a rehabilitation isolation person due to bad conditions need to be transferred out, ready to pack up to leave.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，两名工作人员在向一位康复隔离人员发放“解除医学观察证明”。
ZHOU Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation station, two staff members in a rehabilitation quarantine issued a "medical observation certificate."
第二天，他将结束隔离，离开这里。
The next day, he'll be out of quarantine.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，李爷爷坐在自己的房间看窗外。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongyingnetreporter Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, Grandpa Li sitting in his room looking out of the window.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄3月14日，湖北大学康复驿站，一名志愿者在进行巡查。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net journalist Zhao Di / She March 14, Hubei University rehabilitation post, a volunteer is on patrol.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄病毒带来的阴霾在逐渐消散。
The haze caused by Zhongqing News Zhongqing net reporter Zhao Di / She virus is gradually dissipating.
截至3月17日24时，湖北新增疑似病例、现有疑似病例双“清零”。
As of 24: 00 on March 17, Hubei new suspected cases, the existing suspected cases of double "clear zero."
自3月11日起，武汉新增确诊病例维持在个位数，但近期连续5天出现了门诊新增病例。
Since March 11, Wuhan has maintained the number of new confirmed cases in the single digits, but in the recent five consecutive days there have been new outpatient cases.
疫情趋势虽然逐渐向好，但防控的弦仍不能松。
Although the trend of the epidemic is gradually improving, but the string of prevention and control can not be loose.
3月17日，这一天是张蒙进行核酸复测的日子，她将在两天后收到检测结果。
On March 17, the day Zhang Meng retests nucleic acids, she will receive the test results in two days.
窗户外，透过防盗网，微风拂动着早春的新叶，透过空隙望去，远方的天空在渐渐变蓝。
Outside the window, through a burglar net, the breeze blowing early spring leaves, looked through the gap, the sky in the distance is getting blue.
（文中部分患者名为化名）编辑 | 曲俊燕中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
Some of the patients have been named pseudonyms. Qu Junyan China Youth Daily & # 45; s micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
下一站，回家。
Next stop. Home.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "下一站，回家";。
var msg _ title = & quot; next stop, home & quot;;
var msg_desc = "隔离点的故事";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
