疫情“黑天鹅”袭击养鸡业:下半年的吃鸡难题。
Black Swan attacks chicken industry: chicken eating problem in the second half of the year.
苏杰德。
Sujid.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
以往发生禽流感，只要路不断损失只局限在活禽养殖和销售等个别环节但这一次，与以前的危机截然不同2月22日，诸暨暨南街道新胜村的杨棚图在农场里喂鸡。
This time, in contrast to the previous crisis, the Yang Tent Map of Xinsheng Village, Zhuji Jinan Street, fed chickens on the farm on February 22.
2月中旬，浙江省诸暨市农业农村局针对因新冠肺炎疫情造成的农产品销售难问题开展上门服务，对接多家线上平台，并通过当地政府部门的微信公众号等“吆喝”售卖，帮助当地养殖户、种植户渡过难关。
In mid-February, the Zhuji City Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Affairs in Zhejiang Province launched a door-to-door service to help farmers overcome difficulties in selling agricultural products caused by the outbreak, docking multiple online platforms and helping local farmers and growers survive through "shouting" sales such as the local government's micro-credit public number.
新胜村经营农场养鸡的杨棚图因此获益，农场里因疫情影响积压的五千多只鸡、十万多个鸡蛋均已卖出。
As a result, more than 5,000 chickens and more than 100,000 eggs from the impact of the outbreak have been sold on the farm.
图/新华疫情“黑天鹅”袭击养鸡业本刊记者/苏杰德发于2020.3.23总第940期《中国新闻周刊》在过去的50多天里，12万只鸡被挖坑掩埋，21万只以每斤不到两元的价格贱卖——成本是每斤4~5元。
Photo / Xinhua News Swan Attacks Chicken Farming Newsweek 2020.3.23 China News Weekly 2020.3.23 Over the past 50 days 120,000 chickens have been dug up and 210,000 sold for less than $2 a catty - at a cost of $4 to $5 per catty.
这是湖北省当阳市正阳家禽养殖专业合作社成立10年来的至暗时刻。
This is the darkest moment in the 10 years since the establishment of Zhengyang Poultry Culture Professional Cooperative in Dangyang City, Hubei Province.
经此一疫，损失超过300万元，元气大伤。
As a result of the epidemic, more than 3 million yuan was lost and severely injured.
“现在说什么都没有意义了。
"There's no point in saying anything now.
”合作社负责人谢华情绪低落，在24分钟的通话时间里，这句话他重复了八次。
Xie Hua, head of the cooperative, was in low spirits and repeated the phrase eight times during the 24-minute talk time.
他的合作社有50多位养殖户，分布于宜昌下辖的各县级市，在当地也算小有名气。
His cooperative has more than 50 farmers, distributed in Yichang under the jurisdiction of county-level cities, in the local reputation.
春节至今，全国养鸡产业经历了历史上最艰难的时期。
Since the Spring Festival, the chicken industry has experienced the most difficult period in history.
“我问过很多从业三十多年的人，他们都说从没经历过这种情况。
"I've asked a lot of people who have been in business for more than 30 years that they've never experienced anything like this.
从南方到北方，肉鸡养了要挖坑埋掉，鸡苗孵化后也要挖坑埋掉。
From the south to the north, the broiler must be dug and buried, and the chicken seedlings must be dug after hatching.
”北京峪口禽业南方区经理张明瑞告诉《中国新闻周刊》。
Zhang Minrui, manager of the southern section of Beijing's Yukou poultry industry, told China News Weekly.
他所在的公司创建于上世纪70年代，目前是世界三大蛋鸡育种公司之一，仅2月的损失就超过7000万元。
Founded in the 1970s, his company is one of the world's top three egg-breeding companies, losing more than 70 million yuan in February alone.
“据我们测算，自疫情暴发至3月1日，黄羽肉鸡、白羽肉鸡、白羽肉鸭和蛋鸡等家禽产业主要品种共计损失金额149.76亿元以上。
"From the outbreak of the outbreak to March 1, the major poultry industries such as yellow-feathered chickens, white-feathered chickens, white-feathered ducks and egg chickens have lost a total of more than 14,976 million yuan," he said.
”中国畜牧业协会禽业分会秘书长宫桂芬告诉《中国新闻周刊》，在过去50天里，家禽行业每天损失将近3亿元。
Kwai Fen, secretary-general of the poultry branch of the China Livestock Association, told China News Weekly that the poultry industry had lost nearly 300 million yuan a day in the past 50 days.
填埋鸡苗到麻木1月23日，装载着大约4万只鸡苗的货车，突然停在了河南省的高速公路上。
Landfill chicken seedlings to numbness January 23, loaded with about 40,000 chicken seedlings truck, suddenly stopped in Henan Province on the highway.
按原计划，这批鸡苗将从张明瑞的公司发往谢华的合作社。
According to the original plan, the chicken seedlings will be sent from Zhang's company to Xie Hua's cooperative.
然而，这天上午10点，武汉宣布正式封城，一切都被打乱了。
However, this morning at 10: 00, Wuhan announced the official closure of the city, everything was disrupted.
经过三个小时的沟通无果后，货车只能返程。
After three hours of fruitless communication, the van had to return.
张明瑞说，鸡苗孵化出来之后，一般要在24小时之内运给养殖户。
After hatching, the chickens are usually shipped to farmers within 24 hours, Zhang said.
但客户解释，当地可能不允许接收这批鸡苗，只能收回。
The customer explained, however, that the chicken might not be accepted locally and could only be recovered.
这批鸡苗每只售价约1.7元，收回之后只能以每只5分钱的价格出售。
The chickens sold for about $1.7 each and could only be sold for five cents each when they were recovered.
张明瑞很郁闷，“油费都赚不回来”。
Zhang Mingrui is very depressed, "fuel cost can not earn back."
无论是谢华还是张明瑞，都没有预料到，武汉封城之后，各地会直接进入封村、封路模式，依赖交通运输的养鸡产业链被直接切断。
No matter Xie Hua or Zhang Mingrui, did not anticipate, Wuhan after the closure of the city, will be directly into the village, closure mode, the transport-dependent chicken industry chain was directly cut off.
疫情暴发时，谢华的合作社有存栏鸡33万只，已经长到两斤多的鸡直接填埋了12万只。
At the time of the outbreak, Xie Hua's cooperative had 330,000 chickens in its stockyard and had grown to a total of 120,000 chickens buried directly in two kilos.
“养殖户看到没有希望卖掉，就把它们掩埋了”，由于当时已经封路，作为合作社带头人的谢华不能去养殖户所在地，只能在家里干着急。
"Farm farmers saw no hope of selling them and buried them," said Xie Hua, the head of the cooperative, who could not go to the farm and had to work at home because of the road closures.
剩下的21万只鸡也不好过。
The remaining 210,000 chickens are in a tough situation.
“这段时间，养殖户把鸡棚灯关了，三天才喂食一顿，仅仅是为了让鸡能够保命。
"During that time, farmers turn off the chicken coop lights and feed them for three days just to keep the chickens alive.
”谢华说，例如，平时两万只鸡一天喂食两顿，每次要消耗1.4吨饲料，而疫情期间，为了节约饲料成本，变为每三天吃一次，一次吃1.4吨饲料。
For example, 20,000 chickens feed 1.4 tons of feed twice a day, and 1.4 tons of feed every three days during the outbreak to save on feed costs, Xie said.
由于饲料短缺，也有不少养殖场对蛋鸡采取了强制换羽的方法。
Due to the shortage of feed, there are also a number of breeding farms to the hens forced feather exchange methods.
一般情况下，蛋鸡在入冬前会换一次羽毛，而强制换羽就是人工介入，强行改变它们的换羽规律，一方面节省饲料，另一方面不再产蛋，避免鸡蛋卖不出去的窘境。
Under normal circumstances, egg chickens change their feathers once before winter, and forced feather exchange is a manual intervention to force them to change their feathers, save fodder on the one hand, and avoid the embarrassment of not selling eggs.
冀农药业集团技术总监王献忠是蛋鸡行业资深从业者，他告诉《中国新闻周刊》，换羽之后，蛋鸡会饿半个月左右不进食，再加几天少量进食的过渡期，整个流程接近20天。
Wang Xianzhong, technical director of the pesticide industry group, a veteran practitioner in the egg-chicken industry, told China News Weekly that the hens would starve for half a month or so after a feather change, plus a transitional period of a few days for small amounts of food, the process took nearly 20 days.
他估计，2019年全国大概有蛋鸡13亿只，至少有10％~20％进行了强制换羽。
He estimates that in 2019 there will be 1.3 billion hens in the country, with at least 10-20% of them forced to change feathers.
相比肉鸡和蛋鸡，鸡苗企业的处境更艰难。
Compared to chicken and chicken eggs, chicken seedling enterprises are in a more difficult situation.
“养殖户一般从大年三十到年初二不进货，这三天的鸡苗会积压到初三一起往外运。
"Aquaculture farmers from about 30 to the second day of the year do not purchase, these three days of chicken seedlings will accumulate to the third day together to outbound transport.
”武汉莱德生态农业有限公司总经理段俊告诉《中国新闻周刊》，1月27日，大年初三，原本是段俊的公司年后第一批鸡苗出场的日子，但4万只鸡苗准备装车的时候遇到了问题，检疫证开不了，货车也上不了高速，鸡苗运不出去了。
"Duan Jun, general manager of Wuhan Ryder Ecological Agriculture Co., Ltd, told China News Weekly on January 27, the first three days after the launch of the first chicken seedlings after a handsome company, but 40,000 seedlings had problems getting ready to load, quarantine certificates could not be opened, trucks could not get on the highway, and chicken seedlings could not get out.
段俊的养鸡场位于武汉市江夏区山坡街道群星村，从武汉市区驱车要花费大约一个半小时。
Duan Jun's chicken farm is located in Qunxing Village on the hillside of Jiangxia District of Wuhan. It takes about an hour and a half to drive from Wuhan.
段俊有70多个孵化箱，每个孵化箱可以孵化2万只鸡苗。
Duan Junjun has more than 70 incubators, each capable of incubating 20,000 chickens.
从1月28日开始，段俊先是将鸡苗无害化处理，也就是掩埋。
From January 28, Duan Jun will first seedling harmless treatment, that is, burial.
后来，甚至把正在孵化的鸡蛋也倒掉、掩埋，一直持续了二十多天。
Later, even the hatching eggs were thrown away, buried, and continued for more than 20 days.
段俊说，最开始还很心痛，“后来就麻木了”。
Duan Junsheng said, the first also very heartache, "later numb."
公司没有营收，支出却不能停。
The company has no revenue, but it can't stop spending.
段俊的养鸡场目前有40多个工人，每月工资支出超过20万元。
Duan Jun's chicken farm currently has more than 40 workers, with a monthly wage expenditure of more than 200,000 yuan.
由于部分工人春节回家后，难以返工，段俊只能在村附近高价雇佣临时工：“最高的时候，一个人每天工钱要1000元，现在一天也要300元。
Due to the difficulty of returning to work after the Spring Festival, Duan Jun had to hire temp workers near the village at a high price: "At the height of the day, a man paid 1,000 yuan a day, but now it costs 300 yuan a day.
”去年，鸡苗市场火爆，很多客户都抢着预订年底和年后的鸡苗。
The market for chicken seedlings was booming last year, with many customers scrambling to book chicken seedlings by the end of the year and beyond.
段俊公司的订单一直排到了2020年的4月份。
Mr. Duan's order runs until April 2020.
“往年，春节前的鸡苗一只能卖4~5元，春节后鸡苗价格会涨到6~7元。
"In previous years, the pre-Spring Festival chicken seedlings can only sell 4 ~ 5 yuan, after the Spring Festival seedlings price will rise to 6 ~ 7 yuan.
”段俊说，今年的收入直接归零了，“这次损失超过500万元。
Mr. Duan said revenue went straight to zero this year. "The loss exceeded five million yuan.
”但是段俊不敢停止所有的孵化来止损，他还抱着一线希望：“公司跟客户签订了合同，哪一天路通了，就得马上运送鸡苗给客户，所以不能停止孵化。
But Duan did not dare stop hatching to stop the damage, hoping against hope: "The company has signed a contract with the customer to deliver chicken seedlings to the customer one day, so they can't stop hatching.
”晨科农牧参股了段俊的鸡苗公司，这一次也连带受损。
Morningside agriculture and stockbreeding shares in a handsome section of the chicken Miao company, this time also collateral damage.
董事长戴小方告诉《中国新闻周刊》：“国家出台的政策是可以运输的，我们以为政策能执行到位，就没有停止孵化鸡苗。
Dai Xiaofang, chairman, told China News Weekly: "State policies are transportable and we don't stop hatching them if we think we can implement them."
”肉鸡和鸡苗被掩埋的情景，在全国养鸡场大范围上演。
The burial of chickens and young chickens has taken place on a large scale in chicken farms across the country.
“正月十五之前的十几天，整个南北方鸡苗厂家，把鸡苗全部都销毁了。
"Before the fifteenth day of the first ten days, the entire north and south of the chicken Miao manufacturers, chicken seedlings were all destroyed.
没办法，你去哪路都不通。
There's no way. You can't get anywhere.
”张明瑞说。
'he said.
春节后十余天是家禽行业损失最严重的时期。
More than ten days after the Spring Festival is the worst period of poultry industry losses.
“我们测算，受疫情影响，2月2日之前，家禽产业主要品种损失50.48亿元；2月3日到9日，损失金额31.10亿元。
"We estimate that the poultry industry suffered losses of 5,048 million yuan before February 2 and 3,110 million yuan from February 3 to 9 due to the epidemic.
” 中国畜牧业协会禽业分会秘书长宫桂芬告诉《中国新闻周刊》，截至3月1日，共计损失金额149.76亿元。
Kwai Fen, secretary-general of the poultry branch of the China Livestock Association, told China News Weekly that as of March 1, the total amount of losses was 14.976 billion yuan.
被切断的精密链条对于养鸡行业来说，交通是生命线。
The cut-off of the precision chain for the chicken industry, traffic is the lifeline.
“家禽业生产周期短，效率高，产业链连接紧密，相互之间的依存度比较强。
"The poultry industry has a short production cycle, high efficiency and strong industrial links and strong interdependence.
一个环节出问题，整个产业链都要受影响。
A link out of the question, the entire industrial chain will be affected.
”咨询机构北京博亚和讯的副总经理马闯对《中国新闻周刊》解释，现在的问题是全链条受损，前端断料、中端产品没法加工、后端产品也运不到卖场。
Ma Run, deputy general manager of Boya Hutchison in Beijing, explained to China News Weekly that the problem was a broken chain, with front-end cuts, no middle-end products and no back-end products.
以往发生禽流感，只要路不断，损失只局限在活禽养殖和销售等个别环节。
In the past, as long as the road, losses are limited to live poultry farming and marketing and other individual links.
但这一次，与以前的危机截然不同。
This time, however, it was very different from previous crises.
正月初一，谢华不愿坐以待毙，开车去当地政府部门寻求解决方法，但处处碰壁。
On the first day of the first month, Xie Huahua refused to wait and drive to the local government to find a solution.
他记得，当时要从当阳市运饲料到宜昌的另一县级市枝江。
He remembers that he had to transport feed from Dangyang to another county-level city of Zhijiang in Yichang.
枝江的养殖户办了运输证，并把证明发到他手机里。
Zhijiang farmers to do a transport license, and the certificate sent to his mobile phone.
谢华将其提供给当阳市相关政府负责人，但该负责人却告诉他：“人命关天，现在只管人不管鸡。
Xie gave it to the government official in Dangyang, but the person in charge told him: "It's a matter of life.
”跨地运输需要双方政府部门的同意。
Cross-border transport requires the consent of both government departments.
谢华说，当阳市政府部门后来还是准许他运输了一次，但这些饲料对于养殖户来说是杯水车薪。
Mr. Xie said he was allowed to transport the feed once, but the feed was' a drop in the bucket 'for farmers.
由于宜昌后来也封城，谢华只能待在家里，通过电话求助。
As Yichang later also closed the city, Xie Hua can only stay at home, through the telephone for help.
他打过当阳的市长热线，市长热线让他找当地畜牧局。
He called the mayor's hotline in Dangyang, and the mayor called him to the local livestock office.
畜牧局无法解决，他又打给农业农村部，农业农村部找了省里，省里找到市里，最后还是安排当地畜牧局解决。
Unable to solve the problem, he called the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Province to find the city, finally arranged for the local Livestock Bureau to solve.
一圈下来，谢华的诉求还是解决不了。
Around down, Xie Hua's appeal still can not solve.
谢华与当地政府部门经常打交道，也算熟识，他认为：“畜牧局也不是不想起作用，但不是它一个部门说了算。
Xie, who is familiar with the local government, said: "The Bureau of Livestock is not immune, but it is not one of its departments that decides.
”农产品的运输难题，很早就引起了国家部委的关注。
The difficulty of transporting agricultural products has long attracted the attention of national ministries.
1月30日，农业农村部办公厅、交通运输部办公厅、公安部办公厅等三部委发布紧急通知，严禁未经批准擅自设卡拦截、断路阻断交通等违法行为，维护“菜篮子”产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序。
On 30 January, three ministries, including the General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Ministry of Public Security, issued emergency notices strictly forbidding unauthorized card-blocking and road-breaking and other illegal activities, and maintained the order of normal circulation of "basket" products and agricultural means of production.
不过，上述措施并没有让养鸡产业运输难问题根本扭转。
However, these measures did not make the chicken industry transport difficult to reverse the problem.
中国畜牧业协会2月1日在致全体会员的公开信中说：“随着各地政府加大防控措施，关闭活禽交易市场、限制活禽运输流通。
"As governments around the world step up control measures to close markets for live poultry and restrict the circulation of live poultry," the association said in an open letter to all its members on February 1.
部分地区甚至出现执行偏差、行动过度，中断正常生产生活物资交通运输，造成活禽主要销售流通渠道受阻，饲料等生产物资运输阻断。
Some areas have even experienced such problems as deviation in execution and excessive action, disrupting the normal production and transportation of live poultry, disrupting the main distribution channels of live poultry and disrupting the transport of feed and other production materials.
”在规模化养殖的今天，饲料、鸡蛋、鸡苗、肉鸡养殖、屠宰加工、销售等链条分散在全国，而且环环相扣，紧密程度超出一般人的想象。
In today's large-scale farming, feed, eggs, chicken seedlings, broiler breeding, slaughtering, processing, marketing and other chains are spread across the country and are more closely linked than most people think.
交通的畅通，是维持养鸡产业链条高效运转的必要条件。
Traffic smooth, is to maintain the chicken industry chain efficient operation of the necessary conditions.
“各地防疫管控强度不一样，管理政策也不一样，很难有统一的文件。
"The intensity of epidemic prevention and control varies from place to place, and management policies are different.
”湖北省家禽业协会监事伍志敏告诉《中国新闻周刊》，协会也只能起到信息的收集、呼吁、汇报作用，“各级政府主管部门领导重视了，才能解决问题。
Wu Zhimin, the supervisor of the Hubei poultry industry association, told China News Weekly that the association could only collect, call for and report information.
”湖北是我国禽蛋大省，禽蛋产量居全国第六，2019年家禽存栏近3.5亿只，出栏约5.3亿只。
Hubei, the largest poultry and eggs province in China, ranks sixth in the output of poultry eggs, with a stock of nearly 350 million poultry in 2019, with an output of about 530 million.
日需饲料3000吨，其中玉米1800吨，豆粕1200吨。
Daily feed needs 3000 tons, of which corn 1800 tons, soybean meal 1200 tons.
“突如其来的疫情防控及交通管制，使我省家禽养殖命悬一线:饲料及原材料（玉米、豆粕）调运基本瘫痪，按往年常规贮备的饲料及玉米、豆粕现已告急，大部分规模养殖场将立马‘断粮’。
"The sudden outbreak of disease control and traffic control has left poultry farming in our province hanging in the balance. Feed and raw materials (corn, soybean meal) are basically paralyzed. Feeds and corn and meal, which were stored regularly in previous years, are now in danger. Most of the scale farms will be 'off food' immediately.
”湖北省家禽业协会1月28日向中国畜牧业协会发出求助函。
The Hubei poultry association sent a letter of help to the China Animal Husbandry Association on January 28.
晨科农牧董事长戴小方告诉《中国新闻周刊》，湖北七成左右的玉米是从东北三省水运过来，全程大约需要20天，豆粕则由长江下游的加工厂发出，“水运比火车和公路要强很多，一条船能运3000~5000吨，这能装满一个火车专列。
Dai Xiaofang, chairman of Morningside Farming, told China News Weekly that about 70 percent of Hubei corn comes by water from the three northeast provinces and takes about 20 days to complete. Soymeal comes from factories downstream of the Yangtze River.
”湖北省家禽业协会呼吁了半个月时间，交通不畅的问题才有所改观。
The Hubei poultry association has appealed for half a month before the problem of traffic snarled.
不过，运输不畅依然还是问题的瓶颈。
However, poor transport remains a bottleneck.
戴小方说，长江沿线的码头开工不顺利。
The docks along the Yangtze River are not working smoothly, Mr. Dai said.
有的开，有的关；有的开几天，因为疫情又关了，“到现在为止，码头最多开了50％”。
Some are open, some are closed; others are open for a few days, because the outbreak has been closed again. "Up to 50 per cent of the docks have been opened so far."
饲料短缺问题也得到了相关部委的回应，并协调中储粮有针对性进行放粮。
The shortage of fodder has also received a response from the relevant ministries and coordinated the targeted distribution of grain reserves.
原料荒逐步缓解了，但很多饲料厂又面临复工难题。
The shortage of raw materials has gradually eased, but many feed factories are faced with the problem of returning to work.
晨科农牧2月1日就得到了第一批原料，开始恢复生产，但复工还是一路坎坷。
Morningside farming received its first supplies on February 1 and began to resume production, but it was a bumpy ride to get back to work.
晨科农牧旗下有四家饲料厂，三家在黄冈，一家在黄石。
Morningside farming has four feed factories, three in Huanggang and one in Yellowstone.
2月中下旬，两家正在运行的饲料厂被关闭了，3月初才允许开工。
In late February, two operating feed plants were closed and work was allowed to begin in early March.
戴小方说：“这取决于当地政府对疫情的理解，疫情严重的时候，就让你停工；疫情压力没有那么大的时候，就让你复工。
"It depends on the local government's understanding of the epidemic and when it is severe, let you stop working," Dai said.
”其中，一家饲料厂复工问题更复杂，市里和区里都同意复工，但最后卡在了街道办。
The resumption of work at one of the factories was more complicated, with both the city and the district agreeing to resume work, but ended up stuck in the streets.
戴小方说，停工接近一个半月，客户基本跑掉了，“在最困难的时候，对养殖户来说，谁能救他就跟谁走。
Dai said the shutdown was nearly a month and a half, and customers had largely fled. "In the most difficult times, for farmers, who can save him with whom.
”活禽市场的老难题对于长江以南的养鸡户来说，全国各地关闭活禽市场，是更精准的打击。
"The old dilemma of the live poultry market is a more accurate blow to chicken farmers south of the Yangtze River by closing live poultry markets across the country.
2月1日，河南率先在全国关闭活禽市场，随后各地纷纷跟进。
Henan took the lead in closing the live poultry market nationwide on February 1, and has since been followed by others.
“我们当时调查，全国27个省市都关闭了活禽市场。
"We were investigating the closure of live poultry markets in 27 provinces and cities across the country.
”宫桂芬说，对部分种类的肉鸡来说，活禽是一个重要交易场所，关闭了之后，把销售出口给堵死了。
For some types of chickens, live poultry is an important place to trade, says Miyagi Fen, who shut them down and blocked sales.
黄羽肉鸡受到的影响首当其冲。
Yellow feather broilers were the first to be affected.
黄羽肉鸡龙头公司温氏股份公告介绍，我国肉鸡主要包括白羽肉鸡、黄羽肉鸡和肉杂鸡，在鸡肉产量中的占比大致为 60％、35％和5％。
According to the announcement of Win's shares of Huangyu Broilers and Fried Chicken, China's broilers mainly include white-feathered chicken, yellow-feathered chicken and meat grilled chicken, accounting for roughly 60%, 35% and 5% of chicken production.
“黄羽鸡是中国人主要的禽类消费品种，各地品种比较多样，其活禽销售模式是延续数千年的传统，符合国人的烹饪和饮食方式。
"Huangyu Chicken is the Chinese people's main poultry consumption varieties, various regions are more diverse, its live poultry sales model is the continuation of thousands of years of tradition, in accordance with the Chinese cooking and diet.
在很多地区，活鸡更是作为中秋、春节等节日的传统节礼，是中国传统文化的一部分。
In many areas, live chickens are traditional festivals such as Mid-Autumn Festival and Spring Festival, is a part of Chinese traditional culture.
”江苏立华牧业股份有限公司董事会秘书虞坚告诉《中国新闻周刊》。
Yu Jian, secretary of Jiangsu Lihua Animal Husbandry CO., told China News Weekly.
立华股份是黄羽肉鸡龙头上市公司之一。
Lihua shares are one of the leading listed Huangyu broiler listed companies.
虞坚表示，经过这些年的提升，活禽零售市场，尤其是城市中的零售市场，在防疫安全、环境卫生、综合管理等方面已经有了长足进步，“如果一关了之，对行业势必造成相当大的影响”。
Yu said that after years of upgrading, the retail market for live poultry, especially in urban areas, has made great progress in epidemic prevention safety, environmental hygiene and comprehensive management.
在马闯看来，相比北方的白羽肉鸡，黄羽肉鸡这次受的影响更大。
In Ma barge, compared to the north of the white feather broiler, yellow feather chicken this time affected more.
黄羽肉鸡羽毛带色，比如广东的三黄鸡，讲究“三黄一红”，羽毛、鸡皮和脚必须是黄色，鸡冠是红色。
Yellow feather chicken feathers belt, such as Guangdong Sanhuang chicken, stress "three yellow one red", feathers, chicken skin and feet must be yellow, the crown is red.
“很多消费者会认为这种鸡非常好吃，它的味道、口感、肌肉纤维的细度等各方面都很完美，这是非常传统的评价鸡味道好坏的方式。
"Many consumers will think the chicken is delicious and its taste, texture and fineness are perfect," he said. "It's a very traditional way to evaluate a chicken's taste.
”马闯告诉《中国新闻周刊》，但问题的症结也在这，鸡必须要保持活的状态，而且消费者还要亲眼看到，所以黄羽肉鸡大部分采用活鸡销售方式。
"Ma told China News Weekly, but the crux of the matter was that chickens had to stay alive and consumers had to see them with their own eyes, so the majority of them sold live chickens.
3月6日，在贵州省黔东南苗族侗族自治州从江县斗里镇台里村的一家养鸡农民专业合作社，村民正在管理鸡苗。
On March 6, a chicken farmer professional cooperative in Taili Village, Daili Township, Congjiang County, Qiandongnan Miao Dong Autonomous Prefecture, Guizhou Province, is managing chicken seedlings.
图/中新而白羽肉鸡相对来说，产业链比较完整，屠宰加工以后，可以冰冻起来，或者冰鲜保存。
Figure / Zhongxin and white feather broiler relatively, the industrial chain is relatively complete, after slaughtering and processing, can be frozen, or frozen preservation.
马闯坦言，“黄羽肉鸡产业链在屠宰加工环节相对薄弱，在疫情冲击下，遭到的损失也更加严重”。
"Huang Yu broiler industry chain in the slaughter processing link is relatively weak, under the impact of the epidemic, suffered more serious losses."
为了解养鸡行业受到多大影响，张明瑞3月10日从山东自驾，一路南下，经过安徽、浙江，3月15日到达江西。
In order to understand how the chicken industry has been affected, Zhang Mingrui on March 10 from Shandong self-driving, all the way south, through Anhui, Zhejiang, March 15 to Jiangxi.
一路走来，他明显感受到了活禽市场关闭对养殖户的影响。
Along the way, he clearly felt the impact of the closure of the live poultry market on farmers.
“在安徽淮北，正常是50天出栏的鸡，现在养了60天到65天。
"In Huaibei, Anhui Province, the normal 50-day-old chicken out of the column, now 60 days to 65 days.
活禽市场不开放，养鸡鸭成本高了，利润低了。
The live poultry market is closed, the cost of raising chickens and ducks is high and profits are low.
而且，淮北屠宰场太少，大量的毛鸡杀不了。
Moreover, Huaibei slaughterhouse is too few, a large number of hens can not kill.
”张明瑞原本估计，能卖出去的鸡最低成交价为每斤1元5角，但实地走访下来发现，最低时只能卖到每斤5角，每卖一斤要亏近四元，“很多养鸡户亏了之后，在4月份之前都不愿意上鸡了。
Zhang had originally estimated that the minimum purchase price for a chicken could be $1.50 per catty, but a field visit revealed that the lowest would be $5.50 per catty, nearly $4 per catty.
”“这些养殖户没别的要求，就是期望加速活禽市场开放。
"These farmers have no other requirement than to accelerate the opening of the live poultry market.
”张明瑞说，养殖户损失惨重，“有一部分人在退出，有一部分人在转型，也有一部分人在徘徊。
Mr Zhang said farmers were losing heavily, "with some withdrawing, some in transition and others hovering.
”作为上市公司，为了应对疫情，虞坚介绍，立华股份尝试转换到线上销售模式，一些子公司和下游客户将屠宰加工后的白条鸡上市，缓解存栏积压的压力，“随着疫情的缓解，目前有少部分地区恢复了活禽市场，行业期盼市场能早日开放。
As a listed company, in response to the epidemic, Lihua shares have tried to switch to an online sales model, with some subsidiaries and downstream customers listing white striped chicken after slaughter to ease pressure on the inventory.
”各地已经意识到关闭活禽市场带来的负面影响。
The negative impact of shutting down live poultry markets is already being felt everywhere.
3月6日，河南省农业农村厅等三部门联合印发的紧急通知提到，当前全省农贸市场已开放70％以上，而农贸市场中大多活禽交易没有开放，对家禽产业稳产保供影响较大。
On March 6, an emergency notice issued jointly by Henan Agricultural and Rural Department mentioned that at present over 70 percent of the province's farmers' trade market has been opened, and most live poultry trading in the market has not been opened, greatly affecting the stable production and supply of poultry.
活禽市场是困扰养殖产业多年的难题。
The live poultry market is a difficult problem for many years.
2014年，H7N9流感暴发，由于该病毒初期名称是禽流感，让养鸡行业损失惨重，如今的遭遇似乎是昨日重现。
The H7N9 flu outbreak in 2014, which initially bore the name Avian Influenza and cost the chicken industry dearly, now appears to have reappeared yesterday.
“每次一有大疫情，家禽都跟着受影响。
"Every time there is a major outbreak, poultry is affected.
致病源头还没调查清楚，活禽交易市场就被封闭了。
The market for live poultry has been closed before the source of the disease has been clearly investigated.
”宫桂芬对这样的一刀切做法无奈：“说关就关，养鸡人很受伤。
"Miyagi Fen to such a one-size-fits-all approach helpless:" Guan Guan Guan Guan, chicken people are very injured.
”作为资深从业者，马闯近些年一直在思考原因和对策。
As a senior practitioner, Mr Ma has been pondering why and what to do in recent years.
“活禽市场真是一个说了多年的问题，一些人认为这是几千年的传统，不应该去改变。
"The live poultry market is a problem that has been talked about for years. Some people think it is a tradition that has lasted thousands of years and should not be changed.
”马闯说，这次疫情再次提醒，活禽市场改变的重要性，否则养鸡人过几年就要遭一次罪。
Ma said the outbreak was a further reminder of the importance of changing the live-poultry market or risk a chicken farmer's death in a few years.
对于活禽上市的解决方向，马闯认为有三种渠道：首先，黄羽肉鸡屠宰后冰鲜上市是大趋势，不可逆转；其次，高档餐馆应建立封闭通道，直接跟养殖场对接；可学习国外的周末农场模式，在固定的时间，小规模销售活禽。
First, the trend is irreversible. Second, high-end restaurants should have closed channels to docking directly with breeding farms; they can learn from the foreign weekend farm model and sell live poultry on a small scale at fixed times.
在他看来，对活禽的养殖和上市，更应该健全规范。
In his view, the breeding and marketing of live poultry should be more sound norms.
“应该对养鸡场的生物安全措施进行评级，比如，最高五星的话，规定四星级以上就具备运输的资质，并且制定关于运输车怎么安排、屠宰加工企业怎么接收、产品到卖场怎么规范的规则。
"There should be a rating of biosecurity measures on chicken farms, such as a five-star ceiling with four-star qualifications and rules on how transporters are arranged, slaughtered and processed enterprises receive them and how products are regulated at the stalls.
” 马闯坦言，这些环节如果事先有一个标准操作规范，这次养鸡行业可能不会遭受这么大的影响。
Mr Ma confessed that the chicken industry might not have suffered as much this time if there had been a standard operating code in place.
疫情过后才是生死时刻“现在面临的问题是怎样拉动消费，把产品能够销出去，减少积压。
After the epidemic is the moment of life and death "The question now is how to boost consumption, sell the product and reduce the backlog.
”宫桂芬说，大的餐饮企业经营没有恢复正常，还是无法把鸡肉消费拉动起来。
Miyagi Fen said the big restaurants haven't returned to normal operations and are still unable to pull up chicken consumption.
“在消费场景上，家禽产品的家庭消费占比很低，主力还是餐馆和集团消费。
"Household consumption of poultry products is low in the consumption scenario, with restaurants and conglomerates accounting for the majority.
” 马闯介绍，相对而言，目前只有家庭消费还有增长，但是这部分增长还不足以抵消集团消费和餐馆消费的损失。
In relative terms, household consumption is up, but not enough to offset the losses from consumerism and restaurant consumption, he said.
在他看来，相比目前的消费不振和鸡卖不出去，更大的隐忧是，由于企业生产计划被迫后移，会造成鸡肉需求多的时候，供不应求引起价格上涨。
In his view, the bigger worry is that demand will outstrip demand for chicken at a time when companies are forced to backtrack on their production plans, compared with current sluggish consumption and chicken sales.
张明瑞也认为，未来一两个月如果需求放开，由于鸡肉供应量减少，价格肯定会上升，“2月份鸡苗数量减少，会导致鸡肉供应不足。
Zhang also believes that if demand is liberalized in the next month or two, prices will certainly rise because of a reduction in chicken supply. "Fewer chicken seedlings in February will lead to a shortage of chicken.
此外，国外暴发疫情，可能会导致肉类进口减少。
In addition, outbreaks abroad may lead to a reduction in meat imports.
这些因素叠加，我预计4月份鸡肉价格会达到今年高峰。
Taken together, I expect chicken prices to peak this year in April.
”济南康普赛恩生物科技有限公司销售经理苏晓东给《中国新闻周刊》算了一笔账。
Su Xiaodong, sales manager at Jinan Kompseyne Biotechnology Co., Ltd. made a calculation for China News Weekly.
目前没有准确的数据统计肉鸡缺口有多少，不过可以进行推算：去年末，全国“父母代种鸡（指经过育雏育成后，按照设计的品系间进行杂交、产蛋，用于孵化繁育商品鸡的种鸡）”存栏最高量约3700万只，按照正常产蛋率和孵化率，大约每天能出近1600万只鸡苗。
There are no accurate statistics on the number of chicken gaps, but it is possible to extrapolate: At the end of last year, the nation's stock of "parent-generation chickens, defined as breeders bred to hybridize and lay eggs to hatch commercial chickens," reached about 37 million, producing nearly 16 million chickens a day at normal egg production and hatching rates.
以此计算，春节到正月十五这15天，将减少约2.4亿只鸡苗。
According to this calculation, the Spring Festival to the 15th day of the first 15 days, will reduce about 240 million chicken seedlings.
以肉鸡成长周期42天计算，这些缺口带来的价格变动，将在3月中下旬后逐步显现。
Based on the 42-day broiler growth cycle, the price changes resulting from these shortfalls will gradually become apparent after the middle and second half of March.
苏晓东观察，从3月15日开始，鸡肉价格已经在上涨。
Soo observed that chicken prices had been rising since March 15.
他记得，3月初，每斤鸡肉为3.2元左右，3月12日最高到了每斤4.6元，价格增幅超过四成。
At the beginning of March, he remembered, the chicken was about 3.2 yuan per catty, but March 12 had peaked at 4.6 yuan per catty, representing a price increase of over 40 percent.
值得关注的是，猪肉价格上涨有可能与鸡肉上涨行情叠加。
It is worth noting that the rise in pork prices is likely to overlap with the rise in chicken prices.
2019年，受非洲猪瘟的影响，我国猪肉产量出现明显下降。
In 2019, affected by the impact of African pig disease, China's pork production showed a significant decline.
据国家统计局数据显示，2019年猪肉产量4255万吨，比上一年下降21.3％。
According to the National Bureau of Statistics, 42.55 million tons of pork were produced in 2019, down 21.3 per cent from the previous year.
猪肉产量下降，鸡肉弥补了部分不足，价格也是水涨船高。
Pork production has fallen, chicken has made up part of the shortfall, and prices have soared.
因此，去年几家大型养鸡上市公司赚的钱，相当于几年的利润之和。
As a result, last year's big chicken companies made as much money as years of profits combined.
以立华股份为例，2019年公司实现营收88.83亿元，同比增长两成；实现净利润19.73亿元，同比增长五成。
In 2019, for example, the company realized revenue of 8,883 million yuan, 20% year-on-year, and net profit of 1.973 billion yuan, an increase of 50% year on year.
在山东农业大学教授常维山看来，今年猪肉产量还没恢复，缺口还有千万吨，禽肉和蛋原本还要增产。
According to Chang Weishan, a professor at Shandong Agricultural University, pork production has not recovered this year and there are still tens of millions of tons of meat and eggs.
不过，此次疫情让2020年养鸡行情存在很多不确定性，已经有专家将2020年养鸡行业增速从之前的15％调整到8％。
But the outbreak has left much uncertainty about chicken farming in 2020, with experts already shifting the industry's growth rate to 8% in 2020 from 15%.
为了应对诸多不确定性，宫桂芬建议，政府部门可以把这一段时间积压的禽肉产品收储起来，减少养殖户的损失。
To cope with the uncertainty, Miyagi suggested that the government could save the backlog of poultry products during this period and reduce losses for farmers.
目前，湖北对本省蛋鸡养殖场积存鲜鸡蛋进行收储，具体标准为每收储一吨鲜鸡蛋按250元给予收购运费、电费补贴，补贴时限自2月18日至3月20日。
At present, Hubei egg farms in Hubei Province to store and store fresh eggs, the specific criteria for each ton of fresh eggs collected and stored at 250 yuan acquisition freight, electricity subsidies, the time limit for subsidies from February 18 to March 20.
但已经损失了大量真金白银的养殖散户，很多已经无力投入再生产。
But many retail farmers, who have lost so much of their real gold and silver, are no longer in a position to reproduce.
2月26日，中国人民银行召开电视电话会议，部署金融支持中小微企业复工复产工作。
On February 26, the People's Bank of China held a teleconference to deploy financial resources to support the resumption of MSMEs.
会议指出，再贷款再贴现资金要向重点领域、行业和地区倾斜，在现有支持领域基础上，重点支持复工复产、脱贫攻坚、春耕备耕、禽畜养殖、外贸行业等资金需求。
It was pointed out that the rediscount funds should be redirected to key areas, industries and regions, with emphasis on supporting the capital needs of returning to work, fighting poverty, preparing for spring ploughing, livestock breeding and foreign trade on the basis of existing areas of support.
宜昌当阳，谢华合作社的养殖户们期盼能把今年亏的钱赚回来，但很多人还在犹豫是否要出手，他们已经有一个多月没有购买鸡苗了。
In Yichang Dang Yang, Xie Hua cooperative farmers look forward to earning this year's lost money, but many people are still hesitant to take the initiative, they have not bought chicken seedlings for more than a month.
武汉江夏，3月18日，段俊的鸡苗场，新一批鸡苗又要孵化出来了，他还不能确定是否可以顺利运出去，送到养殖户的鸡棚中。
Wuhan Jiangxia, March 18, Duan Jun's chicken seedling farm, a new batch of chicken seedlings hatched out, he is not sure whether can be smoothly shipped out to farmers in the chicken shed.
段俊对《中国新闻周刊》说，疫情过后，矛盾才会显露出来：饲料款还没付，饲料工厂也要资金周转，每天都在打电话催款；工人工资、购买疫苗都需要钱，但他的公司账上已经没钱了，所有问题的解决都要依靠这批鸡苗，这是他最后的希望。
'After the epidemic, the contradictions will emerge: the feed money has not been paid, the feed factory is running out of cash, and every day is calling for money, 'Mr. Duan told China News Weekly.
值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升市委书记“下馆子”的深意重磅向全社会公布全国619个楼盘每套房源价格查看房价请上恒房通，78折大优惠，推荐成交赚3.5万元+1%佣金点击“阅读原文”了解更多详情。
Why don't you tell the whole society about 619 properties in the country? Please check the price of each house. 78 discount We recommend that we get 35,000 yuan + 1% commission
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情“黑天鹅”袭击养鸡业:下半年的吃鸡难题。
Black Swan attacks chicken industry: chicken eating problem in the second half of the year.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情“黑天鹅”袭击养鸡业:下半年的吃鸡难题";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "以往发生禽流感，只要路不断，损失只局限在活禽养殖和销售等个别环节。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; AT & quot; Where avian influenza has occurred in the past, losses have been limited to isolated segments such as poultry farming and marketing as long as roads continue.
但这一次，与以前的危机截然不同";。
But this time, it was a far cry from previous crises.
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '国际公共卫生专家：美国疫情防控迎来转折点，未来几周病例会迅速上升',。
International public health expert: The United States has at a turning point in its epidemic prevention and control. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '市委书记“下馆子”的深意',。
At & quot; party secretary & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '市委书记“下馆子”的深意',。
At & quot; party secretary & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
