美国呼吸机紧缺！工业企业或转产救急，马斯克称特斯拉和SpaceX已开始呼吸机研发。
A shortage of breathing machines in the United States! Industrial enterprises or conversion emergency, Musk said Tesla and SpaceX have begun breathing machine development.
李贤焕、寇建超。
Lee Xianhwan, Ke Jianchao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
单日新增确诊人数超过 5 千，累计确诊人数逼近 2 万，美国已经成为新冠肺炎疫情蔓延下的又一个巨大受害者。
With more than 5,000 new cases diagnosed each day and a cumulative total of nearly 20,000, the United States has become another huge victim of the spread of pneumonia in the New Crown.
中国、欧洲多国的经历已经表明，在疫情暴发、患者人数飞涨的情况下，几乎没有国家和地区能够躲过医疗资源紧缺的情况。
The experience of many countries in China and Europe has shown that few countries and regions have escaped the shortage of medical resources when the number of people affected by the outbreak has soared.
如今，这一难题摆在了美国面前。
Today, the United States faces this dilemma.
图 | 美国新增确诊激增（来源：纽约时报）当地时间 3 月 19 日，美国纽约州州长安德鲁·库默 (Andrew Cuomo) 在记者会招待会上，表示目前纽约呼吸机极度短缺，纽约现有呼吸机仅 5000 至 6000 台，但总共需要 30000 台。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said at a news conference Monday that there is an acute shortage of ventilators in New York, which now has between 5,000 and 6,000 but needs a total of 30,000.
在电视新闻里，库默说，“我昨天与其他州的州长们通话，每一个州都在购买呼吸机……我们已经派人去呼吸机最大制造国中国购买。
In the television news, Cuomo said, "I spoke to the governors of other states yesterday, and every state was buying ventilators... We've sent people to China, the biggest manufacturer of ventilators.
”显然，面临呼吸机短缺的不只是纽约州，而是整个美国的问题。
Clearly, it is not just New York that is facing a shortage of ventilators, but the nation as a whole.
据报道，目前美国的医院内大约有 16 万台呼吸机，此外，美国还有 1.27 万台呼吸机在国家战略储备当中，这是美国联邦政府为应对国家紧急情况而保留的医疗用品。
Some 160,000 respirators are reported to be in United States hospitals. In addition, there are 12,700 ventilators in the United States in the national strategic reserve, which is a medical supply reserved by the United States Federal Government in response to national emergencies.
疫情持续加重，这个数量可能远远不够，出现短缺也几乎只是一个时间问题。
The epidemic continues to grow, and this may not be enough, and it is almost only a matter of time before shortages occur.
据独立非营利组织 ECRI 估计，美国目前正在使用的重症监护呼吸机中，大约一半是依赖进口的。
ECRI, an independent non-profit organization, estimates that about half of the intensive care respirators currently in use in the United States are imported.
美国国内只有不到 12 家公司生产呼吸机。
Fewer than a dozen companies in the United States manufacture respirators.
疫情持续发展，主要来自亚欧的多个国家早已扫光了全球呼吸机供应，现有的产能处于供不应求的状态，难以满足来自美国的新需求。
The epidemic continues, with many countries, mainly from Asia and Europe, having wiped out the global supply of respirators, and existing capacity is in short supply to meet new demand from the US.
在新冠病毒患者治疗当中，呼吸机是一个至关重要甚至关乎生死的医疗设备，它可以确保患者在肺功能已经衰竭的情况下仍然可以继续呼吸。
The ventilator is a vital or even vital medical device in the treatment of patients with new crown virus. It ensures that the patient can continue to breathe even when lung function has failed.
因此短期内，呼吸机短缺可能成为美国应对疫情的一大困境，紧急提升呼吸机供应迫在眉睫；但长期来看，呼吸机在疫情结束后又将面临存量过剩的情况。
So, in the short term, a shortage of ventilators could become a major problem in the United States, and an emergency supply of ventilators is urgently needed; in the long run, however, the machines will face overstocking once the epidemic is over.
如何快速提升产量？铺设产线过程中谁能在短期内为高昂的费用买单？已经成为绕不过的难题。
How to boost production quickly? Who can pay for the high costs in the short term while laying the production line has become a thorny issue.
呼吸机短缺困境对于病情严重的患者来说，有没有呼吸机可能就是生与死的差别，但现在部分医院已经找不到任何地方可以买到这种“救命设备”。
Breathing Machine Shortage The ventilator may or may not be the difference between life and death for a seriously ill patient, but now some hospitals can't find anywhere to buy the "life-saving device."
众多来自和美国和欧洲的制造商表示，至少在短期内，他们无法加快生产速度，不断飙升的需求显然难以被满足。
Many manufacturers from the US and Europe say they will not be able to speed up production at least in the short term, and soaring demand is clearly hard to meet.
图 | 美国患者分布（来源：纽约时报）也正是因为这种物资短缺的情况几乎是全球性的，欧洲部分国家正在启用战时动员策略，以加快工厂生产呼吸机的速度，但在特殊时期里，这些设备多数都是用以满足当地的设备缺口，不被允许对外出口。
The US patient distribution (source: The New York Times) is also due to the almost global nature of the shortage, with parts of Europe using wartime mobilization strategies to speed up the manufacture of respirators, but most of that equipment was used to meet local equipment gaps during specific periods and was not allowed to export.
相比之下，美国在国家层面迟迟没给出相关措施，加速呼吸机的生产工作。
In contrast, the United States has been slow to provide measures at the national level to accelerate the production of respirators.
此外，提升产能还是一个耗时数个月、花费数十亿美元的”大工程”。
Moreover, boosting production capacity is a "big project" that will take months and cost billions of dollars.
根据纽约时报报道，医疗公司 Hamilton Medical 驻瑞士的首席执行 Andreas Wieland 表示，“现实情况是，设备是绝对不够的。
"The reality is that the equipment is absolutely inadequate," said Andreas Wieland, chief executive of the medical firm Hamilton Medical in Switzerland, according to The New York Times.
”该公司也是全球最大的呼吸机生产商之一。
The company is also one of the world's biggest makers of ventilators.
据介绍，Hamilton Medical 正在以最快速度加快产线的运转，其中的措施包括将办公室的员工调往工厂、临时雇佣更多员工等。
Hamilton Medical is working as fast as it can to speed up production, including moving office workers to factories and hiring more employees on a temporary basis, it said.
但这也远未能解决短缺的现实问题。
But it also falls far short of addressing the reality of the shortfall.
“意大利想订购 4000 台，但没办法，”Andreas Wieland 表示，最后公司仅向意大利交付了 400 台，仅能满足十分之一的需求。
"Italy wanted to order 4,000 units, but could not," says Andreas Wieland, who eventually delivered only 400 units to Italy, only a tenth of the demand.
（来源：路透社）呼吸机制造商在提高产量方面仍然面临着重大限制，呼吸机作为一个医疗器械非常复杂，其中涉及到的数百个小零件可能分别来自世界各地不同的公司，其中许多部件产自中国，复杂的工艺和供应链也进一步限制了产能提升。
(Source: Reuters) Breathing machine makers still face major constraints in boosting production, and breathing machines are a complex medical device that involves hundreds of small parts, many from China, and complicated processes and supply chains that further limit capacity.
位于美国圣路易斯的小型呼吸机制造商 Allied Healthcare Products 的首席执行官 Earl Refsland 表示的，目前公司每年大概生产 1000 台呼吸机，而扩大生产至少需要 8 个月。
Earl Refsland, chief executive of Alliance Healthcare Products, a small breathing machine maker based in St. Louis, says the company currently produces about 1,000 respirators a year, while expanding production takes at least eight months.
而来自另一家小型呼吸机制造商 Ventec 的首席执行官向纽约时报表示，“我有百分之百的把握告诉你，现在每一家制造商都存在订单积压。
"I'm 100 per cent sure that every manufacturer has a backlog of orders," Ventec, the chief executive of Ventec, another small ventilator maker, told The New York Times.
”还有一些正在进入呼吸机市场的制造商，进展速度也不乐观。
Other manufacturers that are entering the ventilator market are making less progress.
10 年前，当 Matt Callaghan 还是美国斯坦福大学的博士后时，他设计了一款精简、低成本的呼吸机，医院可以把它储存起来，以应对“全球大流行”的可能性。
Ten years ago, when Matt Callaghan was a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University, he designed a compact, low-cost ventilator that hospitals could store to cope with a "global pandemic."
后来，他与人合作创办了一家名为 One Breath 的公司，旨在发展中国家生产更便宜的重症监护呼吸机。
Later, he co-founded One Breath, a company aimed at producing cheaper intensive care respirators in developing countries.
如今该公司筹集了数百万美元，在东南亚建立了制造工厂，并预计在未来 12 个月内产品下线。
Now the company has raised millions of dollars to build manufacturing plants in Southeast Asia and expects to disconnect within the next 12 months.
随着新冠疫情的暴发，One Breath 正在探索它是否可以迅速重组，以满足新冠肺炎肆虐地区的迫切需求，这其中包括美国地区。
With the outbreak of the new crown, One Breath is exploring whether it can be rapidly restructured to meet urgent needs in areas ravaged by pneumonia, including the United States.
但 Callaghan 告诉《麻省理工科技评论》，那些可以适应不断升级流行病的设备需要不同的标准、功能和电池，要保证可以正常生产，他们需要筹集更多资金，签订更多合同，并迅速获得美国食品药品监督管理局（FDA）和其他部门的批准。
But Callaghan told the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Review that equipment that can adapt to an escalating epidemic requires different standards, functions, and batteries, and that to be able to produce properly, they need to raise more money, sign more contracts, and quickly get approval from the Food and Drug Administration and others.
即使得到这种支持，最好的情况是，从现在开始大约 11 个月后才能为美国医院生产。
Even with this support, at best, it would take about 11 months from now to give birth in a United States hospital.
医院已经难以等待还“远在天边”的呼吸机，约翰·霍普金斯大学危机应对办公室主任 Gabe Kelen 表示，我们正在考虑每一个可能的地方。
Hospitals have struggled to wait for breathing machines that are "far away," said Gabe Kelen, director of the Johns Hopkins University Crisis Response Office.
在这种情况下，医院系统也正在考虑是否能和约翰·霍普金斯大学工程系合作，制造自己的呼吸机。
In this context, the hospital system is also considering the possibility of working with the Johns Hopkins University School of Engineering to make its own respirator.
Kelen 也认为，这其实是一种极端的选择，且他们此前并没有制造如此精密机器的经验。
Kelen agrees that this is an extreme option and that they did not have the experience of building such a sophisticated machine.
此外，医院还找来了伦理学专家，探讨了非常令人沮丧的问题：如果病人比呼吸机还多的时候，如何在使用呼吸机问题上进行选择？汽车、飞机厂商能指望吗？战争时期，飞机、汽车厂商常被调用以生产包括武器在内的军用设备。
In addition, the hospital brought in ethics experts to explore the very depressing question of how to choose to use a respirator if the patient has more than a respirator? Can automobile and airplane manufacturers expect it? Aircraft and automobile manufacturers are often called upon to produce military equipment, including weapons, in wartime.
而在疫情期间，这些大型制造商所拥有的场地、制造设备和丰富的制造业经验成了值得依赖的一股势力。
During the epidemic, the sites, manufacturing facilities, and manufacturing experience of these large manufacturers became a force to be trusted.
包括中国、欧洲都有大型车厂紧急改造产线，生产口罩、防护服以及呼吸机等医疗物资。
There are large car factories in China and Europe that make emergency line alterations and produce medical supplies such as masks, protective clothing and respirators.
如今包括通用、福特在内的美国车企巨头也有计划加入抗疫的阵线当中。
Now American auto giants, including General Motors and Ford, have plans to join the battle against the disease.
比如在德国，劳斯莱斯的一名发言人表示：“据我们所知，政府正在探索各种方式，帮助企业应对新冠疫情的暴发。
In Germany, for example, a Rolls-Royce spokesman said: "To our knowledge, the government is exploring ways to help businesses deal with the outbreak of the new crown.
在他们制定计划的过程中，我们希望在这个时候尽我们所能帮助政府和这个国家，并将寻求提供我们所能提供的任何实际帮助。
As they work out their plans, we hope to do everything in our power at this time to help the Government and the country, and will seek to provide whatever practical help we can.
”美国车企巨头通用由于公司内出现确认病例，目前已经暂停北美地区汽车生产工作，目前已提出转产医疗设备的想法。
US auto giant General Motors has suspended production in North America due to confirmed cases in the company and has now floated the idea of converting medical equipment.
通用发言人表示，国家处在艰难时期，“我们已经在研究是否可能支持呼吸机之类医疗设备生产”。
GM spokesman said the country was in a difficult situation and "we are already looking into the possibility of supporting the manufacture of medical devices such as respirators."
同日，福特公司也表示，愿意以“任何我们能够做到的方式帮助政府”，包括制造呼吸机等设备，已经在与政府初步讨论可行性。
On the same day, Ford said it was willing to "help the government in any way we can," including making devices such as breathing machines, and was already in preliminary discussions with the government about feasibility.
据 CNBC 报道，知情人士透露，通用汽车不会重新组装或更改用于生产汽车的设备，更可能是用一些工厂的额外空间来生产呼吸机。
According to CNBC, people familiar with the matter said GM would not reassemble or modify the equipment used to make cars, but would more likely use extra space in some factories to make breathing machines.
此外，掌管特斯拉、SapceX 的马斯克也在推特上表示，转型生产呼吸机并不困难，“特斯拉生产的汽车拥有先进的暖通空调系统，SpaceX 生产的宇宙飞船拥有生命支持系统。
In addition, Musk, who runs Tesla and SapceX, said on Twitter that it would not be difficult to convert to breathing machines. "Tesla's cars have advanced HVAC systems and SpaceX-built spacecraft have life support systems.
”如果呼吸机出现短缺，他愿意制造。
If there was a shortage of breathing machines, he was willing to make them.
这引起了美国纽约市市长白思豪的注意，后者在推特上回应马斯克称，纽约市需要帮助，且已经联系马斯克。
That drew the attention of the mayor of New York City, Mark Musk, who responded on Twitter that the city needed help and had contacted him.
而后马斯克对此进一步表示，特斯拉和 SpaceX 的员工正在研发呼吸机，尽管他认为这些产品可能派不上用场。
Musk then went on to say that employees of Tesla and SpaceX were working on respirators, although he thought they might not be useful.
（来源：推特）不过，获得车企响应还只是第一步，就算不考虑其中的资金投入和监管问题，从无到有地造出一台呼吸机也并不是一件容易的事情。
(Source: Twitter) But getting a response from car companies is only the first step, and building a respirator from scratch is not easy, even without considering the money and regulation involved.
此前中国车企上汽通用五菱、比亚迪、广汽集团都迅速形成了口罩产能。
Previously, SAIC General Wuling, BYD, and Guangzhou Automobile Group quickly formed the mask production capacity.
但呼吸机毕竟不是口罩，车企说上就上。
But the respirator is not a respirator after all.
像呼吸机这样的医疗设备，其生产受到监管部门的高度管制，依赖于专有的全球供应链，且需要大量的专业知识来提升和运行。
Medical devices like respirators are highly regulated by regulators, rely on proprietary global supply chains, and require considerable expertise to upgrade and operate.
这一切，都是为了保证呼吸机的安全运行。
All this is to ensure the safe operation of the ventilator.
此前，英国的一些评论人士认为，英国汽车制造商或其它主要制造商可能会采取行动拯救世界的说法，显然过于乐观了。
Earlier, some British commentators thought the suggestion that British carmakers or other major manufacturers might take action to save the world was clearly too optimistic.
也就是说，美国是否能指望汽车制造商来填补呼吸机的缺口，还是一个大大的问号。
That said, it is a big question mark whether the US can count on carmakers to fill the gap in the breathing apparatus.
政府力量很关键要解决呼吸机紧缺问题，找到更多产能还只是第一步。
Government forces will have to deal with a shortage of breathing machines, and finding more capacity is only the first step.
在救治病人的迫切需求面前，制造业尽管有参与其中的意愿，也急需快速的监管批准和来自政府的合同。
In the face of the urgent need to treat patients, the manufacturing industry, despite its willingness to participate, urgently needs rapid regulatory approval and contracts from governments.
由于疫情的未来发展情况难以预知，如今美国的患者人数还处在不断爬升的阶段，最终会出现多少病人？对应需要的病房、呼吸机等设施的数量是多少？谁都无法给出一个哪怕是模糊的答案。
Because of the uncertainty about the future of the epidemic, the number of patients in the United States is still climbing. How many patients will eventually appear? What is the number of wards, ventilators, etc.
而呼吸机本身造价不菲，要在短时间内迅速提升产量，产生的额外支出也难以忽视。
The ventilator itself is expensive, to rapidly increase production in a short period of time, resulting in additional expenditure is difficult to ignore.
向美国医院系统投放 5 万台呼吸机需要多少钱？美国辛辛那提大学的呼吸治疗师兼名誉教授 Richard Branson 表示，普通医院级别的呼吸机可能需要 2.5 万美元，而一台具有所有最新功能的 ICU 呼吸机的价格可能是这个数字的两倍。
Richard Branson, a respiratory therapist and emeritus professor at the University of Cincinnati in the United States, said a ventilator at the general hospital level could cost as much as $25,000, while an ICU ventilator with all its latest features could cost twice as much.
此外，每个零部件供应商都需要额外支付费用以加快交付速度，带来费用将会是几十亿美元。
In addition, each spare parts supplier will have to pay an additional fee to speed up delivery, which will cost billions of dollars.
但在疫情得到控制后，可以预见的是这些设备将变得多余。
But once the outbreak is under control, it is foreseeable that the equipment will become redundant.
Kenneth Lutchen 是美国波士顿大学工程学院院长、生物医学工程教授，专注于研发更安全的机械呼吸机，他在一封电子邮件中告诉《麻省理工科技评论》，“即使公司可以提高呼吸机的产量，那谁会为所有额外的呼吸机买单？可能在某个时间节点，这场疫情会自行结束，直到下一次疫情暴发之前，放置在医院的呼吸机将远远超过他们所需要的数量。
Kenneth Lutchen, a professor of biomedical engineering at Boston University's School of Engineering and a professor of biomedical engineering, told the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Review in an e-mail that "even if companies could increase ventilator productivity, who would pay for all the extra respirators?
”“需要有一个激励性的商业模式来促进企业生产，这其中需要政府正确参与进来。
"A motivational business model is needed to boost production, which requires the right government involvement."
”Kenneth Lutchen 补充说。
"added Kenneth Lutchen.
业内人坚信，政府确实需要介入，为企业加速生产提供必要的确定性。
Insiders firmly believe that the government does need to step in to provide the certainty necessary for companies to accelerate production.
美国总统特朗普在当地时间 3 月 18 日的白宫新闻简报会上宣布，他将立即启动《国防生产法》，从而快速增加美国国内生产口罩和医疗防护用品的产量，对抗新冠肺炎疫情蔓延。
US President Trump announced at a White House press briefing on March 18, 2006 that he would immediately activate the Defense Production Act, thereby rapidly increasing domestic production of respirators and medical supplies to combat the spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
他明确表示，启动该法案有明确的目标，“我们需要相关的零部件、口罩和呼吸机。
He made it clear that the bill was launched with a clear goal: "We need the relevant parts, masks and respirators."
”《国防生产法》由美国国会在 1950 年通过，该法案赋予美国总统权力以国家安全和其他理由，扩大关键材料或产品的工业生产规模。
The Defense Production Act, passed by Congress in 1950, gives the president of the United States the power to expand industrial production of key materials or products, for national security and other reasons.
《国防生产法》项目的资金不仅可以用于相关政府订单的采购，还能够用于修建工业设施。
The DPA project funds can be used not only for the purchase of relevant government orders, but also for the construction of industrial facilities.
比如，在当前，《国防生产法》项目的资金可以用于建设生产口罩和呼吸机的厂房设备和生产线，但是要动用这样的资金需要首先得到总统的亲自授权。
For example, at present, funds from the Defense Production Act project can be used to build plant equipment and production lines for the production of masks and respirators, but access to such funds requires the personal authorization of the President.
美国国防部前副助理部长 John McGinn 对媒体表示：“这项法案可以确保私营企业加快紧急医疗用品和设备的生产和分配，让政府在国家紧急状态时有广泛的权力，要求生产商增加应对产品的生产规模。
John McGinn, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense, told reporters: "The bill would ensure that private companies accelerate the production and distribution of emergency medical supplies and equipment, give the government broad powers in a national emergency, and require manufacturers to increase the scale of production of products they respond to.
”理论上，有了这一法案，美国政府允许强制调动生产线生产关键供应品，其中就包括了呼吸机。
In theory, the bill would allow the US government to force production lines to produce critical supplies, including respirators.
不过据纽约时报报道，到目前为止，联邦政府尚没有投资帮助制造商增加产能，只是勉强整理了联邦资源，以及有限地协调了呼吸机等器械的分配。
So far, the New York Times reports, the federal government has made no investment in helping manufacturers increase capacity, barely marshalling federal resources and, to a limited extent, coordinating the distribution of devices such as respirators.
各州只能各自为战，这也意味着，将由呼吸机的制造商们决定，哪些医院、哪些政府最需要这些机器——或者说，哪些人更愿意支付溢价。
The fragmented nature of states means that it is up to the manufacturers of respirators to decide which hospitals and which governments need them most - or who is more willing to pay a premium.
除此之外，呼吸机不是一个即插即用的机器，它需要精准校准后才能给患者使用。
In addition, the ventilator is not a plug-and-play machine; it requires precise calibration before it can be used by patients.
如果校准做得不对，会对患者起到相反的效果。
If the calibration is done incorrectly, it will have the opposite effect on the patient.
气胸、肺萎缩、被细菌感染的肺炎、肺氧中毒和吸入呕吐物等都是并发症之一。
Pneumothorax, lung atrophy, pneumonia infected with bacteria, pulmonary intoxication and vomiting by inhalation are among the complications.
在正常情况下，操作这些呼吸机的医护人员需要接受多年的培训，而在突如其来的疫情，带来的挑战不仅仅是呼吸机设备本身，是否能配备足够的医护人员，也是一个潜在的挑战。
In normal circumstances, the staff who operate these machines will need years of training. In the case of sudden outbreaks, the challenge is not only the breathing apparatus itself, but also the availability of adequate medical staff.
-End-参考：https://www.technologyreview.com/s/615380/we-need-more-ventilators-heres-what-it-will-take-to-get-them/https://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/20/world/coronavirus-news-usa-world.htmlhttps://www.nytimes.com/2020/03/18/business/coronavirus-ventilator-shortage.html。
- End-reference: https: / / www.technologyreview.com / s / 615380 / we-need-more-conventors-heres-what-it-will-take-to-get-them / https: / / www.nytimes.com / 2020 / 03 / 20 / world / curonavimes.com / 2020 / 03 / 18 / business / coronavirus-ventilator-shortage.html.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国呼吸机紧缺！工业企业或转产救急，马斯克称特斯拉和SpaceX已开始呼吸机研发。
A shortage of breathing machines in the United States! Industrial enterprises or conversion emergency, Musk said Tesla and SpaceX have begun breathing machine development.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "美国呼吸机紧缺！工业企业或转产救急，马斯克称特斯拉和SpaceX已开始呼吸机研发";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; US ventilator shortage! Industrial enterprise or conversion emergency, Musk says Tesla and SpaceX have begun R & D & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "单日新增确诊人数超过 5 千，累计确诊人数逼近 2 万，美国已经成为新冠肺炎疫情蔓延下的又一个巨大受害者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with more than 5,000 new cases diagnosed a day, and a cumulative total of nearly 20,000, the United States has become another huge victim of the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
