疫情中的家暴受害者：被削弱的自救系统。
Victims of domestic violence in the epidemic: a weakened self-help system.
曹颖。
Cao Ying.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲疫情期间，封城封路、酒店停业、社会焦点转移等因素使家暴受害者的求助之路变得更为艰难。
During the epidemic, the closure of the city, the closure of the hotel, the shift of social focus, and other factors make domestic violence victims more difficult to seek help.
（南方周末记者 翁洹/图）全文共4950字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
(Southern Weekend Journalist Hun Huan / Gu) The full text is 4950 words, which takes about 10 minutes to read.
湖北省监利县反家暴公益组织“蓝天下妇女儿童维权协会”统计发现，2020年2月其服务的家暴事件有175起，是1月的近两倍、2019年同期的三倍多。
The Association for Protecting Rights of Women and Children under the Blue Sky, a pro bono anti-domestic violence organization in Ningli County in Hubei Province, found that 175 domestic violence incidents were serviced in February 2020, nearly twice as many as in January and more than three times as many as in the same period in 2019.
受害者的自救系统也因疫情影响被削弱——由于封路无法投靠亲友，酒店均已暂停营业，受害者几乎无法解决食宿问题。
The victims "self-help systems have also been weakened by the epidemic - hotels have been shut down because of the lack of access to relatives and friends, leaving victims with little food and shelter.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 曹颖南方周末实习生 冯雨昕责任编辑 | 邢人俨2020年3月9日凌晨4点03分，42岁的李某某发出最后一条微信朋友圈：“总觉得家暴离自己很遥远，今天对我来说就是一场噩梦，恐惧、无助让我窒息，我的精神已经彻底崩溃！”两小时后，她从十一楼坠亡。
Li Yuxin, a 42-year-old intern with responsibility at 4: 03 a.m. on March 9, 2020. "I always felt that domestic violence was far away from me. Today is a nightmare for me. Fear and helplessness have suffocated me.
3月12日，山西省灵石县公安局通报称其死亡原因系自杀，死前曾遭受丈夫家暴。
On March 12, the Lingshi County Public Security Bureau in Shanxi Province reported that the cause of death was suicide and that she had been subjected to domestic violence by her husband.
2020年2月26日，074职场女性法律热线发起人台风注册微博，开始记录疫情期间的家暴事件，仅仅几天时间，她就搜集到六起家暴事件。
On 26 February 2020, Typhoon Weibo, the promoter of the 074 Women in the Workplace Legal Hotline, began recording incidents of domestic violence during the epidemic, and in just a few days she collected six incidents.
“家暴不太‘可见’，求助也很困难。
"Domestic violence is not so visible and it is difficult to get help.
在被隔离的状态下，大家的压力都在增大，和家人长期相处的压力、无法复工的压力等，家暴可能增多，平时可以采用的逃离家暴的方法在疫情期间也不行了。
In isolation, the stress increases, the pressure on family members to remain together for a long time, the pressure to return to work, etc. Domestic violence may increase, and the usual escape from domestic violence is no longer possible during an epidemic.
我们建立这个微博就是想告诉大家，哪怕在这个时候我们也很关心家暴问题。
We set up this micro blog to tell you that we are concerned about domestic violence even at this time.
”湖北省监利县反家暴公益组织“蓝天下妇女儿童维权协会”（以下简称“蓝天下”）统计发现，2020年2月其服务的家暴事件有175起，是1月的近两倍、2019年同期的三倍多。
Statistics from the Association for Protecting Rights of Women and Children under the Blue Sky, a pro bono anti-domestic violence organization in Ningli county in Hubei Province, found that 175 domestic violence incidents were serviced in February 2020, nearly twice as many as in January and more than three times as many as in the same period in 2019.
协会负责人万飞告诉南方周末记者，疫情期间，一天最多接到十通求助电话，最少也有两通。
The association's director Wan Fei told Southern Weekend reporter that during the outbreak, a maximum of 10 calls were received a day, at least two.
“家人相处时间变长，不能出门、不能娱乐，心理承受能力降低，焦虑增加了碰撞。
"Families spend more time together, can't go out, can't play, psychological endurance is reduced, anxiety increases collisions.
”万飞分析。
"Wanfei analysis.
受害者的自救系统也因疫情影响被削弱——由于封路无法投靠亲友，酒店均已暂停营业，受害者几乎无法解决食宿问题。
The victims "self-help systems have also been weakened by the epidemic - hotels have been shut down because of the lack of access to relatives and friends, leaving victims with little food and shelter.
2014年，“蓝天下”在湖北监利县、潜江市等地探索“妇联、公安、社会组织”的反家暴工作联动模式，包括心理咨询师、律师、警察在内的八十多人参与其中。
In 2014, Blue Sky explored the "Women's Federation, Public Security and Social Organizations" model for anti-domestic violence work in Hubei prison districts, Qianjiang City and other places, involving more than 80 people, including psychologists, lawyers and police officers.
疫情期间，团队帮助家暴受害者稳定情绪，提供心理支持，给出应对建议，指导他们用法律手段保护权益，为滞留施暴地无法离开的受害者安排酒店庇护。
During the period of the epidemic, the teams help victims of domestic violence to stabilize their emotions, provide psychological support, give advice on how to deal with them, instruct them to protect their rights and interests by legal means, and arrange hotel accommodation for victims who cannot leave their violent home.
监利县一位遭受丈夫家暴的受害者，老家远在广东，封城封路后，警察将其安置在酒店里，按照每天100元补助住宿，监利县人民政府提供1500元，“蓝天下”向公益机构申请3000元。
A victim of domestic violence by her husband in Ningli county, his hometown is in Guangdong Province. After the closure of the city, the police put him in a hotel, where he was provided with 100 yuan a day for lodging, 1,500 yuan under prison supervision and 3,000 yuan under blue sky for public welfare organizations.
目前，该受害者已经在酒店里住了一个多月。
The victim has now been staying at the hotel for more than a month.
“疫情之下人手紧缺，工作重点转移，精力跟不上，社会组织的焦点也投向救灾。
"The epidemic is understaffed, the focus is shifting, energy is not keeping pace, and the focus of social organizations is on disaster relief.
”万飞告诉南方周末记者，以往春节是协会获得资助的高峰期，2020年收到的资助费不足一万元。
Wan told Southern Weekend that Spring Festival used to be the peak for the association, receiving less than 10,000 yuan in aid in 2020.
后来，他通过某慈善基金会才为三百多名家暴受害者申请到2月的服务经费。
Later, through a charitable foundation, he applied for funding for the services of more than 300 victims of domestic violence until February.
在这笔预算中，除了心理、法律志愿服务的补贴之外，还包括为6位受害者提供庇护的费用。
This budget includes, in addition to subsidies for psychological, legal voluntary services, the costs of sheltering six victims.
1如果被隔离了，被殴打这件事还能解决吗？2月19日清晨7点，曹真终于逃出男友的家，小区保安照例为她量体温，没有注意到她藏在口罩下的伤口。
At 7 a.m. on February 19th, Cao Zhen finally escaped from her boyfriend's house. As usual, the security guard took her temperature and did not notice the wound she had hidden under her mask.
在空旷的马路上等车时，曹真害怕又焦急。
Cao Zhen was afraid and anxious while waiting for the bus in the open road.
“这应该是我等过的最漫长的滴滴，我生怕慢一秒他就追出来，又把我拉入身后的地狱。
"It was supposed to be the longest drop I'd ever waited for. I was afraid he would chase me out one second later and pull me into hell behind me.
”四五个小时前，曹真遭遇了人生第一次暴力。
Four or five hours ago Cao Zhen suffered his first act of violence.
男友想出门喝酒，曹真以疫情为由劝阻他。
Boyfriend wants to go out drinking Cao Zhen to the epidemic situation to dissuade him.
在家中喝闷酒的男友，在喝了近一瓶烈酒后，掐住曹真的脖子，拎着她不断撞击墙壁，随后又抡起水壶威胁她。
At home, her alcoholic boyfriend, after drinking a bottle of spirits, grabbed Cao's neck, carrying her against the wall and brandishing the kettle to threaten her.
曹真从未想过暴力会发生在自己身上。
Cao Zhen never thought violence would happen to him.
男友在深圳某互联网公司工作，从事游戏行业，性格温和，只是偶尔偏激。
Boyfriend works in a Shenzhen Internet company, engaged in the game industry, gentle personality, only occasionally extreme.
一次争吵后，男友给曹真打了几百个电话，甚至跑到她家按了一个小时门铃。
After a quarrel, her boyfriend made hundreds of phone calls to Cao Zhen and even ran to her house to ring the doorbell for an hour.
事发后，在派出所做笔录时，曹真才得知他也对前女友动过手。
After the incident, in the police station to do a transcript, Cao Zhen just learned that he had also moved on his ex-girlfriend.
疫情让求助变得举步维艰。
The epidemic is making it difficult to get help.
曹真需要打印控告书和病例，但小区附近的打印店都关门，最后她找到一家七公里外的打印店。
Cao really had to print out the complaint and the case, but the print shop near the neighborhood was closed until she found a print shop seven kilometers away.
在医院治疗伤口时，她耳温高达37.6度，被带去发热门诊，还做了核酸检测。
During the treatment of the wound in the hospital, she had an ear temperature of up to 37.6 degrees, was taken to a fever clinic and tested for nucleic acid.
“我怎么也不会想到，自己竟然要做新冠病毒检测。
"I never thought I was going to do a new crown virus test," he said.
我们转发过、愤怒过、恐惧过、痛哭过的一切不只是在网络上了。
It's not just on the Internet that we forward, we've been angry, we've been scared, we've cried.
”更让曹真担心的是：如果自己被隔离了，被殴打这件事还能解决吗？受疫情影响，许多受害者逃离家暴的渠道也被阻断了。
What worried Cao more was whether the beating could have been solved if he had been quarantined, and that many of the victims' avenues of escape from domestic violence had been blocked by the outbreak.
32岁的王雅丽与前夫离婚两年，各自带着孩子生活。
Ms. Wang, 32, divorced her former husband for two years, each with her children.
今年春节，在前夫央求下，她勉强同意去前夫家过年。
At the behest of her ex-husband, she reluctantly agreed to spend the Spring Festival with her ex-husband.
饭桌上，因前夫责骂女儿，两人发生争执，前夫的拳头又一次砸向王雅丽。
At the dinner table, the former husband scolded his daughter, they had an argument, the former husband's fist again hit Wang Yali.
王雅丽的妹妹接到孩子的求救电话。
Her sister received a call for help from her child.
两地相隔二十多公里，自1月26日县城封路以来，村里的大喇叭天天播放“村村不通行、县县不通行”。
The two places are more than 20 kilometers apart, since January 26, the county closed the road, the village loudspeaker daily broadcast "village is not passable, county is not allowed to pass."
妹妹先去村委开出城证明，被告知疫情期间禁止外县人进本县；有上路证明也未必能过其他县城关卡；出了县城之后还存在不能返回的风险。
My sister first went to the village committee and was told that people from outside the county were not allowed to enter the county during the outbreak; that they were not necessarily able to cross other county posts if they were on the road; and that there was a risk that they would not return after leaving the county seat.
村委干部反复叮嘱，没有特别紧急的事情车辆不允许上路，“而且你们是出城接人，这更不可能了”。
Village committee cadres repeatedly said that there is no particularly urgent thing vehicles are not allowed to go on the road, "and you are out of town to meet people, this is even more impossible."
最后，王雅丽带着12岁的儿子和7岁的女儿，逃离了前夫的家。
Finally, Wang fled her ex-husband's home with her 12-year-old son and 7-year-old daughter.
由于疫情，交通几近封锁，王雅丽拦不到车，三人徒步了近四个小时。
Because of the outbreak and the near-blockade, Wang stopped the car and the three men walked for nearly four hours.
王雅丽曾向警察求助，因为没有坦陈家暴，警方并未出警。
Wang appealed to the police, who did not report domestic violence.
王雅丽的一位亲戚将整件事记录下来发到网上。
One of Ms. Wang's relatives posted the whole story online.
“在疫情封城封路这么极端的境况下，竟然实施暴力，并且对她们离家出走无动于衷。
"In the extreme circumstances of the closure of the city, violence has been perpetrated and there has been no response to their departure.
他算准了她们在这种情况下走不远，在孤立无援的处境中，最终还是要回去，那时就得向他低头了。
He figured that they were not far off in such a situation, and that, in the end, they would have to go back and bow to him.
”2“他们觉得这是别人的事情”2月17日下午，邻居打骂孩子的声音又一次传来，郑熹决定做些什么。
"They think it's someone else's business." On the afternoon of Feb. 17, the voice of neighbors scolding the children came again, and Zheng Xi decided to do something.
她写了一封信，讲明家庭暴力要承担法律责任，请他们不要再打孩子。
She wrote a letter about the legal responsibility for domestic violence and asked them not to hit their children again.
夜里十二点，她将这封信塞进邻居家的门缝里，过程中不时发出丁点儿声响，她有些紧张。
At twelve o'clock in the evening she thrust the letter into the crack in the door of her neighbor's house.
几天后，母亲和孩子的争吵再次爆发。
A few days later, the quarrel between the mother and the child broke out again.
郑熹听到孩子开始反抗：“打110”“家暴”“拘留”。
Zheng Xi heard the children start to resist: "hit 110", "domestic violence" "detention."
郑熹相信，孩子收到了她传递的信息，“受到家暴可以向外界求助，外面有人支持他”。
Zheng Xi believed that the child received her message, "domestic violence can turn to the outside world, someone outside support him."
2020年3月1日是反家暴法实施四周年，郑熹和朋友们在网络上发起“反家暴小疫苗”行动，呼吁大家关怀自己所在社区，及时干预身边的家庭暴力。
On March 1, 2020, the fourth anniversary of the implementation of the Anti-Domestic Violence Law, Zheng Xi and his friends launched the "Anti-Domestic Violence Vaccine" campaign on the Internet, calling on everyone to care for their own communities and intervene promptly in cases of domestic violence around them.
该行动发起七天后，有千余人参与，超过五十位参与者将《给邻居的反家暴倡议书》张贴在北京、上海、广州、深圳、武汉、大连、攀枝花、洛阳等23个城市的社区里。
Seven days after the launch of the campaign, more than 1,000 people participated and more than 50 participants posted the Anti-Domestic Violence Initiative to Neighbors in 23 cities, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Wuhan, Dalian, Panzhihua and Luoyang.
他们有的遭遇过家暴，有的目睹过家暴。
Some of them have experienced domestic violence, others have witnessed it.
湖北荆州是疫情重灾区，小区住户禁止出门，郑熹只能半夜两点偷偷地去贴倡议书，她花了四十分钟手写完成，贴在一层电梯旁——“疫情期间，家人处在封闭的空间中，朝夕相处，也许会意见不合，也许会争吵，但家人始终是我们最温暖的依靠，和睦才能让我们共渡难关。
It took Zheng Xi 40 minutes to write a letter and put it up next to the elevator. "During the epidemic, family members were in a closed space, living side by side with each other.
在此我希望向大家呼吁：不管家人之间有什么摩擦，都不使用暴力，坚持用文明和平方式解决；如果得知自己亲友或邻居有家庭暴力的情况，请及时劝阻，也可以向公安机关、社区或妇联报告。
I would like to appeal to all of you not to use violence, regardless of friction between family members, to insist on a civilized and peaceful solution; if you learn of domestic violence by your friends, relatives or neighbours, you should immediately dissuade them, and you can also report to the public security organs, the community or the Women's Union.
”网友Robin打印了二十份倡议书，把它们贴在电梯里，旁边是“防治新冠肺炎”的传单。
"Online Robin printed 20 proposals and posted them in the elevator, next to the leaflet" Fighting New Crown Pneumonia.
她比贴商业广告还提心吊胆——“担心被人看到、被摄像头拍到、被物业指责”。
She was even more apprehensive than putting up commercials - "afraid of being seen, caught on camera, accused of property."
小区的公告栏和墙上贴满了广告，有办证的、茶楼的、照相馆的、洗脚的，除此之外，没有非官方张贴的与公共利益相关的资讯。
The bulletin board and wall of the community are covered with advertisements, there are certificate, teahouse, photo studio, foot washing, in addition, there is no unofficial posting of information related to the public interest.
诸多“反家暴小疫苗”参与者形容自己像在做小偷。
Many anti-domestic violence vaccine participants described themselves as thieves.
有些新贴的倡议书，第二天就被撕掉了。
Some of the newly posted initiatives were torn down the next day.
分享张贴倡议书经历的微博下，时不时会出现些异样的评论：“这种属于乱张贴吧”“此时此刻，防疫情才是第一任务，任何把防控疫情的宣传搁置或放到次要位置的做法都觉得不妥”。
"At this point, epidemic prevention is the first task, and any attempt to put aside or relegate to the back burner any publicity about prevention and control of the epidemic" is inappropriate.
网友“嫣然”是目前参与行动最年长的“小疫苗”，今年47岁。
User "Yan Ran" is currently involved in the action of the oldest "small vaccine", 47 years old.
嫣然身边也有家暴事件，侄女的父亲会殴打妻子，但她们从未向外界求助过。
There have also been incidents of domestic violence at her side, with her niece's father beating her, but they have never turned to the outside world for help.
这次成为“小疫苗”是受国外留学的女儿之托。
This time to become a "small vaccine" by the daughter of a study abroad commission.
“不同城市的人参与进来，甚至在参与之前写出自己干预家暴的故事，有这么多人的支持，说明旁观者在增多。
"There is so much support from people in different cities, even writing their own stories of domestic violence intervention before they even get involved, that the number of bystanders is increasing.
”郑熹欣慰于行动的力量，“但同时家暴议题下谴责受害者的言论也很多，我们无法让潜在受害者变少，我们能做的就是让更多人加入反家暴行动，让受害者得到更多的支持，而不是攻击与冷漠。
Zheng Xi was pleased with the power of action. "But at the same time, the number of statements condemning the victims of domestic violence is too great for us to reduce the number of potential victims. What we can do is to get more people to join the anti-domestic violence campaign and give victims more support instead of attacking and apathetic.
”一位“小疫苗”给遭遇或者目睹家暴的网友私信，提供反家暴指南，联系了十位网友，只得到一位回复。
A "mini-vaccine" provided anti-domestic-violence guidelines to netizens who had experienced or witnessed domestic violence, contacted 10 Internet users and received only one response.
“他们对于什么是家暴以及家暴发生后可以做什么，尤其是围观者可以做什么，大部分人不是很清楚。
"Most people don't know exactly what domestic violence is and what can be done after it has occurred, especially what the crowd can do.
他们觉得这是别人的事情。
They think it's someone else's business.
”“不报警、不求助不是因为疫情，而是观念所限。
'Not because of the epidemic, but because of perceptions, 'he said.
”万飞告诉南方周末记者，“一些求助者不愿意报警，担心会让别人知道自己家的事，也有受害者认为要发生大事才能报警。
"Some of the callers were reluctant to call the police, worried that they would let others know about their homes, and some victims thought something important was needed to call the police," Wanfei told Southern Weekend reporter.
”灵石县妇女联合会副主席张宝汝在接受采访时说，李某某从未向亲友同事提及家暴，外人眼里她拥有和睦美满的家庭。
In an interview, Zhang Po Ru, vice-president of the Lingshi County Women's Federation, said Li never mentioned domestic violence to her family and colleagues.
自杀前，李某某在姊妹群里发出自己脸部受伤的照片，第一次说出自己的家暴经历。
Before the suicide, Lee in the sister group issued a picture of his face injury, the first time to tell his story of domestic violence.
曹真也没有将遭遇暴力的事情告知父母，怕他们担心，也怕他们不支持自己。
Cao Zhen did not tell his parents about the violence for fear that they would worry and that they would not support themselves.
“中国人的传统思维是家丑不可外扬，息事宁人。
"The traditional Chinese way of thinking is to let sleeping dogs lie.
”报警之初，她有过犹豫和恐惧。
She had hesitated and feared when she first called the police.
“遭遇这种暴力的时候，我们第一时间是害怕，这种害怕让你做不出任何行动，只想缩在那里，不敢向外界迈出一步。
"The first thing we get when we get into this kind of violence is fear, a fear that keeps you from doing anything but shrink back and take a step out of the way.
我现在想说的是，不要害怕。
What I'm trying to say is, don't be afraid.
”3“不懂家暴是什么”结合“蓝天下”疫情期间数据，万飞发现，疫情期间，女性受害人占比94.67%，2019年全年女性受害人占比80%，“说明疫情期间女性更容易遭受暴力”。
Combining data from the "blue sky" epidemic, it was found that 94.67 per cent of victims were female during the epidemic, compared with 80 per cent of female victims in 2019, "suggesting that women are more vulnerable to violence during the epidemic."
2011年，“疯狂英语”创始人李阳家暴事件在微博上公开曝光后，郑熹开始关注并研究相关议题。
In 2011, after the incident of Li Yang, founder of Crazy English, was publicly exposed on Weibo, Zheng Xi began to pay attention to the relevant issues.
“传统的男性气质里面有一些要素是和暴力相联系的，在推崇这样的‘阳刚气质’教育下，或多或少会纵容男性使用武力‘解决’问题。
"There are elements in the traditional masculinity that are associated with violence, and in the education that promotes this' masculinity ', men are more or less encouraged to use force to' solve 'the problem.
”郑熹对南方周末记者说，“在制度和环境方面，如果政策本身或者政策的实施不完善，或者舆论对暴力的态度不明确，都会导致家暴者实施家暴的成本微小。
"In terms of institutions and environment, if the policies themselves or the implementation of policies are not perfect, or if the attitude of public opinion towards violence is not clear, it will result in domestic violence by domestic violence offenders," Zheng Xi told Southern Weekend reporter.
”北京为平妇女权益机构共同发起人冯媛认为：“家庭暴力是一种性别相关的暴力，但它不是生理性别所决定的，而是基于社会的性别陈规定型的一套性别规则，如男主女从、男人应该要掌控局面、要养家糊口，而女人应该听话温柔、应该以家庭和男性为中心等等。
Feng Yuan, co-founder of the Beijing Women's Rights Institute, said: "Domestic violence is a gender-related violence, but it is not determined by sex, but a set of gender rules based on gender stereotypes in society, such as male subordination, male control and family support, while women should be obedient and gentle, centered on family and men, etc.
”2020年3月4日，内蒙古呼和浩特市新城区人民法院发出疫情以来的首份人身安全保护令——春节期间，由于不堪前夫骚扰，妻子在朋友家住了二十天后，无奈与母亲开车逃到郊外，一直住在车里。
"On March 4, 2020, the first personal safety order since the new urban people's court in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, issued its first personal safety order during the Lunar New Year, when the wife and her mother fled to the outskirts of the city and stayed in the car after 20 days of harassment by their former husbands.
北京为平妇女权益机构也于3月8日发布《反家暴法实施监测报告》，据报道，上海四年来保护令核发率不足四成，其搜集上海市法院上传的104份保护令相关的法律文书，涉及91个案例，其中三分之一的保护令申请被驳回，成功核发率仅为54%，而全国法院平均核发率为60%。
On March 8, the Beijing Women's Rights Organs issued a report monitoring the implementation of the Anti-Domestic Violence Law. According to the report, less than 40 percent of protection orders have been issued in Shanghai in the past four years.
“上海的经济文化都相对发达，但在保护令核发方面不及全国平均水平，也有一些其他地方存在保护令申请难以核准的问题。
"Shanghai has a relatively well-developed economy and culture, but it is below the national average for protection orders and there are other places where it is difficult to approve applications for protection orders.
”冯媛分析，疫情期间，公共部门没有上班，很多法官在家办公，法院电话可能都接不通，虽然开通了网上受理案件的渠道，但对于没有网络、不会使用电脑的受害者而言，求助大门依旧紧紧关闭着。
Feng analyzes that during the epidemic, when the public sector was not at work and many judges were working from home, court calls might not be available, and while online channels were available to receive cases, the door remained closed for victims who did not have access to the Internet and did not use computers.
南方周末记者搜索中国裁判文书网发现，已上传公开2020年全国人身安全保护令法律文书共24篇，其中2月仅2篇。
Southern Weekend reporter search of China's website found that the publication of the 2020 national legal instrument on personal security protection order 24, of which only 2 in February.
冯媛告诉南方周末记者：“越来越多的当事人有了权利意识，他们要主张自己的权利，要去相关机构求助，当事人已经走在前面了，但相关机构没有跟上。
Feng Yuan told Southern Weekend News: "More and more people are becoming aware of their rights and are seeking help from relevant organizations, which are already ahead of the curve, but the institutions concerned are not keeping up.
”曹真多次前往深圳市南山区南头派出所，调解员的态度却让身为受害者的她更加绝望——“他的工作这么好，你这样会毁了人家”“就算分手也是最熟悉的陌生人”。
Cao Zhen went to the Nanshan police station in Shenzhen several times, but the mediator's attitude made her, as a victim, even more desperate - "His work is so good that you would ruin others.
“我没有做错任何事情，为什么指责我？”曹真仍难掩愤怒。
"I didn't do anything wrong, why accuse me?" Cao Zhen still struggled to hide his anger.
警察出身的万飞分析：“不是不作为，根本上是认知问题，不懂家暴是什么，他们很少受到真正有效的培训。
An analysis of the origins of the police: "Not by omission, but by definition by cognitive problems, by ignorance of what domestic violence is and by the fact that they rarely receive truly effective training.
”冯媛多年来奔波于全国各地，进行讲座与培训，她发现民间培训在逐年增加，但（与家暴相关的）公检法培训在逐年减少，“以前一年还有好几个，现在一年有一次就算多的了。
Feng Yuan, who has spent years giving lectures and training in different parts of the country, found that folk training was increasing year by year, but training in public prosecution was decreasing year by year.
”2月26日，曹真将自己遭遇家暴的经过及录音公布在网上，评论数2.1万，转发量10.5万。
Cao posted on the Internet on Feb. 26 the history of domestic violence and recorded it, with 21,000 comments and 105,000 transmissions.
之后，“整个事情突然开始快速解决”。
Then "the whole thing suddenly began to settle quickly."
第二天中午，“深圳南山公安”官方微博发布公告，对施暴者行政拘留5日，罚款200元，并对调解员的不规范行为，向曹真表达了歉意。
At noon the next day, the official Weibo "Shenzhen Nanshan Public Security" issued a notice, the perpetrators of administrative detention for five days, a fine of 200 yuan, and to the mediators of irregularities, Cao Zhen expressed regret.
从2011年李金曝光李阳家暴到2019年宇芽在微博公布家暴视频，网络逐渐成为家暴受害者的主要求助地。
From Li Jing's exposure to Li Yang's domestic violence in 2011 to 2019, when he posted a video on domestic violence on Weibo, the Internet has become a major recourse for victims of domestic violence.
“其实不只是家暴，很多事情好像现在都是这样，比如说那些新冠患者，他们很多人都在网上求助，关注量比较大的时候，他们才获得了积极的救治。
"It's not just domestic violence, a lot of things seem to be happening right now, such as new crowns, where many people turn to the Internet for help and get positive attention.
”一位“小疫苗”说，她将家暴事件发到网上，是想支持和鼓励更多家暴受害者。
A "small vaccine" says she posted the domestic violence incidents online to support and encourage more victims of violence.
但台风认为，“网络虽然是求助渠道，但未必所有效果都像宇芽那么好，即使是宇芽事件，在全网关注下，施暴者只拘留20天，罚款500元。
But the typhoon thought, "Although the network is a channel for help, but not all the effects are as good as Yu bud, even in the bud incident, the perpetrators of the network attention, only 20 days detention, a fine of 500 yuan.
”2月26日当晚，曹真再次前往南头派出所，做完笔录已是深夜一点多，出来时她看见六七个人站成一排在外面等她，都是素不相识的网友。
On the night of February 26, Cao Zhen went to the Nantou police station again. It was past one o'clock in the night when she came out and saw six or seven people standing outside waiting for her.
曹真告诉南方周末记者，目前调解员已辞职，施暴者则提出了行政复议，拘留暂缓执行。
Cao Zhen told Southern Weekend reporter that the mediator has resigned, the perpetrators of the violence filed an administrative review, detention suspended.
（应受访者要求，曹真、王雅丽为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
(At the request of the interviewee, Cao Zhen, Wang Yali for alias) poke the picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的家暴受害者：被削弱的自救系统。
Victims of domestic violence in the epidemic: a weakened self-help system.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的家暴受害者：被削弱的自救系统";。
var msg _ title = & quot; domestic violence victims of the epidemic: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
