一家 9 口感染新冠肺炎后康复的样本观察：比起目睹死亡，无医院收治才是更大的绝望。
A sample of nine people who had recovered from New Crown Pneumonia: No hospital treatment was more hopeless than witnessing death.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
撰文：杨媛2020 年 1 月 23 号凌晨 1：30，一架从武汉天河机场出发的客机飞抵杭州萧山机场，落地半个小时后，武汉宣布自 1 月 23 号上午 10 时起封城。
Writing: At 1.30 a.m. on January 23, 2020, an airliner from Wuhan Tianhe Airport arrived at Xiaoshan Airport in Hangzhou and landed half an hour later. Wuhan announced the city would be closed as of 10 a.m. on January 23.
那是当天最晚的一班飞机，也是林玲最后的离汉机会。
It was the last flight of the day and Lin Ling's last chance to leave Han.
「纯粹是第六感」她说。
"Pure sixth sense," she said.
头一天晚上，在上海虹桥火车站候车室，林玲将原定于 1 月 24 号上午返回上海的机票改签，不安的心绪瞬间平复。
On the first night, Lin Ling changed her ticket, which had been due to return to Shanghai on the morning of January 24, to the waiting room of Hongqiao Railway Station in Shanghai.
现在回想起来，她仍为作了这个正确的决定而庆幸。
In retrospect, she was grateful for having made the right decision.
与她一起逃出武汉的，还有 3 岁的女儿。
She escaped from Wuhan with her three-year-old daughter.
林玲无法想象女儿感染新冠肺炎的后果，因为身后的家人，几乎「全军覆没」。
Lin could not imagine the consequences of her daughter's new crown pneumonia, as her family was "almost totally destroyed" behind her.
自 1 月 21 号起，滞留在武汉的家人陆续出现症状，而后，爸爸、妈妈、弟弟、外公、外婆、奶奶、大姨，大姨夫、表弟一家 9 口均被感染。
Since January 21, the families stranded in Wuhan began to show symptoms, and then papa, mother, brother, grandfather, grandmother, grandmother, aunt, uncle, cousin nine people were infected.
这是一个典型的聚集性感染样本，瘟疫掠过这个三代同堂的家庭，留下的不止是血液中的抗体。
This is a typical case of a conglomerate infection that has swept through the three-generation family, leaving behind more than antibodies in the blood.
他们惊慌、后怕、庆幸，最终用尽力气，重新建构起信心。
They panic, fear, self-congratulation, and finally use all their strength to rebuild confidence.
在人满为患的瘟疫的世界里，他们是病人，更是家人。
In a world full of pestilence, they are sick, and even more so their families.
将镜头对准每一个家庭成员，以下是他们的自述。
Aim the camera at each member of the family. Here are their stories.
林玲：住进医院之前，任何环节都可能出差错最开始有症状的是奶奶，奶奶家住华南海鲜市场附近，我回武汉的几天前，她一直在武汉市新华医院（湖北省中西医结合医院）打针。
My grandmother lived near the South China Seafood Market. A few days before my return to Wuhan, she had been inoculated at Xinhua Hospital in Wuhan, Hubei Province.
1 月 21 号当天拍了肺部 CT ，显示有病灶，也是在那天，新华医院接到通知，不再接收门诊打针的病人，爸爸便开车送她去三环外的私立医院打针。
On January 21, a CT scan of the lungs showed signs of lesions, and on the same day, Xinhua Hospital was told that patients no longer receiving injections from the clinic would drive her to a private hospital outside the Third Ring Road for an injection.
他开车送奶奶回家后，把车停在了距离华南海鲜市场几百米的汉口火车站，因为我和弟弟到武汉都凌晨了，公交停运，他要把车留给我们，然后自己坐公交车回到东西湖区的家里。
When he drove his grandma home, he parked at Hankou Railway Station, a few hundred meters from the South China seafood market, because my brother and I arrived in Wuhan in the early hours of the morning.
结果爸爸 22 当天晚上就发烧了。
As a result, my father had a fever that night.
我 1 月 22 号凌晨 3 点到武汉，当天下午 11 点就离开了，在武汉的时间不到 24 小时。
I arrived in Wuhan at 3 a.m. on January 22, and left at 11: 00 p.m. that day, spending less than 24 hours in Wuhan.
这段时间里，我开车去汉口北取了在高铁上买的 600 个 N95 口罩，分给家里人，晚上和外婆家的亲戚吃了一顿年饭。
During this time, I drove to Hankow North to pick up 600 N95 masks bought on the high-speed railway and gave them to my family.
小姨、大姨一家、外公外婆三户人住在一个小区，我们家住附近小区，一家人挨得很近。
Aunt, auntie family, maternal grandmother live in a small area, we live in the neighborhood, close to the family.
1 月 30 号下午，外婆的肺部 CT 结果出来了，显示有病灶，晚上，爸爸、妈妈、大姨，外公都去查了，结果跟外婆一样，全是「双肺斑片状及磨玻璃高密度影」。
On the afternoon of January 30, the results of a CT scan of Grandma's lungs showed signs of lesions. In the evening, my father, mother, aunt and grandfather went to check it out.
也是在 1 月 30 号，奶奶浑身乏力好几天了，但因为一直没有发烧，所以没有确诊，也没有接受正规的治疗。
Also on January 30, Grandma had been without strength for several days, but as she had no fever, she was not diagnosed and did not receive regular treatment.
医生说不发烧就不是新冠肺炎，医院不接收，但此前的 5 天，她都无法进食，到医院时已经脱水、意识模糊。
Doctors say no fever is the new crown pneumonia, hospitals do not accept, but for the previous five days, she was unable to eat, arrived at the hospital dehydrated and confused.
求了半天，医生才同意给她打营养针。
After asking for a long time, the doctor agreed to give her a nutrition injection.
2 月 8 号、10 号、11 号，我们自费给奶奶做了三次核酸，全都是阴性。
On February 8th, 10th and 11th, we made three nucleic acids to Grandma at our own expense, all of them negative.
红十字医院的医生给我们建议，说我们有 CT 诊断书，可以申请去酒店隔离。
Red Cross doctors advised us that we had a CT diagnosis and could apply for isolation at the hotel.
我到处打电话，社区不收，叔叔甚至把奶奶扔在社区门口，假装走掉，发现没人管，两个小时后又把她接走了。
I called everywhere, the community did not accept, uncle even left her in the community door, pretended to walk away, found nobody took care of her, and two hours later took her away.
直到 2 月 18 号，奶奶才住上院。
It was not until February 18 that Grandma lived in the Upper House.
家人的住院事宜几乎靠我安排。
The hospitalization of the family was almost up to me.
爸爸 2 月 8 号被强制出院那一次，没有社区的隔离点愿意接收，打到社区，社区说没办法，让我找街道，我又打到街道，街道让我打到区里面，区里面又让我打到街道……最后怎么解决的，我直接给街道的一个书记打电话，然后就像开绿一样，立马找到隔离点了。
When my father was forcibly discharged from hospital on February 8, no community isolation point was willing to accept, call the community, the community said there was no way to let me find the street, I called the street, let me call inside the district, the district inside let me call the street...
住进去后的第 3 天，社区还打电话来问，他们都不知道爸爸已经住进去了。
Three days after they moved in, the community called and asked if they didn't know Dad was in.
类似的过程经历了很多次，奶奶住院、外公外婆住院出院……都是我远程安排。
A similar process has gone through many times, grandmother hospitalization, maternal grandmother hospital discharge... are my remote arrangements.
因为家里人不是在隔离点就是医院。
Because the family is either in quarantine or in the hospital.
这期间心一直悬着，只有等家人住进医院了，我才睡得着。
In the meantime my heart was hanging, and I could only sleep until my family was in the hospital.
没住进医院之前，中间任何环节都很有可能出差错。
There is a good chance that anything in the middle will go wrong before you go to the hospital.
爸爸：比起目睹死亡，无医院收治才是更大的绝望我所在的公司距离华南海鲜市场只有两三公里。
Dad: No hospital treatment is more hopeless than witnessing death. My company is only two or three kilometers from the South China seafood market.
上下班都要经过那里，以前是乘公汽加地铁上下班，元旦之后改自驾，因为听说华南海鲜市场出现了类似 SARS 的病例。
Commute to and from work there, the former bus and subway to work, after the New Year's Day to change their driving, because I heard that the South China seafood market has a similar case of SARS.
1 月 21 号下午，领导召集全公司职工开了动员会，说现在政策是「内紧外松」，让我们注意防护。
On the afternoon of January 21, the leader called a staff meeting and said that the policy was "tight inside out" and let us pay attention to the protection.
我当天的状态还很好，谁知第二天就发烧了。
I was in good shape that day, but I had a fever the next day.
1 月 22 号，我儿子女儿刚好都从上海回来，当晚全家人聚会吃年饭，我一个人没有去。
On January 22nd, my son and daughter just returned from Shanghai. That night my family got together for the New Year dinner.
去楼下的诊所量了一下体温，37.5℃，医生开了一盒连花清瘟颗粒，我配合阿莫西林吃的，第二天感觉好一些，自认为烧退了。
I went downstairs to the clinic to take a temperature, 37.5 degrees, the doctor opened a box of rinderpest granules, I eat with amoxicillin, the next day feel better, think burned out.
而后是头疼，我本身就有头疼的毛病，以前睡一觉就好了，所以那次也以为是毛病犯了。
Then I had a headache. I had a headache myself. I used to get enough sleep, so I thought it was a problem.
后来的 10 天里，断断续续地头疼，持续的浑身无力。
For the next 10 days, I had an intermittent headache and a persistent weakness.
我们春节期间都不兴看病的，因为不吉利。
We are not interested in seeing doctors during the Spring Festival because it is unlucky.
所以直到 1 月 31 号，大年初七，我才去的东西湖区人民医院，当时都快撑不住了。
So until January 31, about the seventh year, I just went to the People's Hospital in the East and West Lake, then almost can not sustain.
医院发热门诊人山人海，分诊台已经不叫号了，患者排的挨挨挤挤。
Hospital fever clinic people mountain sea, the dispensary has not shouted, the patient row of people suffered crowded.
下午 4 点去的医院，排队检查完，到家都晚上 11 点了。
At the hospital at 4: 00 p. m., I queued up to check it out and got home at 11 p. m.
我当时头痛欲裂，没心思关心其他事，排队、检查、取药都是老婆跑上跑下安排。
I had a splitting headache, I was not in the mood to care about other things, queuing, check, take medicine is the wife running up and down arrangements.
血常规和胸部 CT 片出来后，医生建议我住院，但是东西湖区人民医院没有床位，医生开了三剂消炎针，让我每天来门诊打针。
After a routine blood test and a chest CT scan came out, the doctor recommended that I be hospitalized, but the People's Hospital in the Eastern and Western Lakes Region did not have beds.
那时候，我妈妈，岳父岳母都已经发烧了。
At that time, my mother, father-in-law and mother-in-law all had a fever.
此前的几天，老婆带着我妈在东西湖区人民医院和湖北省中西医结合医院打了几天的针了。
A few days ago, my wife and my mother in the East and West Lake District People's Hospital and Hubei Province combined hospital for a few days.
没办法，整个武汉市一床难求，家里的 3 个老人都还没住上院，我更没法住院。
No way, the whole city of Wuhan difficult to find, the family of three elderly people have not lived in the upper house, I can not be hospitalized.
在东西湖区人民医院发热门诊打了两天消炎针后，接到女儿的通知，说青山普仁医院有床位，我赶忙让弟弟开车送我去了。
After two days of anti-inflammatory injections at the fever clinic of the People's Hospital in the Eastern and Western Lakes Region, I was informed by my daughter that there were beds in Qingshan Puren Hospital and I hastened to let my brother drive me there.
2 月 2 号，我住进了武汉普仁医院感染科一间 6 人病房。
On February 2, I was admitted to a six-person ward in the Infection Department of Wuhan Puren Hospital.
一进医院，我立马就踏实了。
I was relieved as soon as I entered the hospital.
无论如何，有医生救我了。
Anyway, the doctor saved me.
6 床是 5 号早上走的，那是一位 70 岁左右的女性，我住 1 床，她的斜对角，那天我早起洗漱路过 6 床，看到被白床单盖住的身体，心里一惊。
The bed left on the morning of the 5th. It was a woman of about 70 years old. I lived in a bed. Her diagonal angle.
没过一会，4 个穿防护服的医护拿着帆布袋进来了，两人牵袋子，两人抬尸体，装进袋子，拉链一拉抬走了。
Before long, four paramedics in protective clothing came in with canvas bags. They took the bags, carried the bodies, put them in bags and zippered away.
那过程迅速安静，我和同病房的另外 4 个病友都心照不宣地别过脸去，不忍心看。
It was a swift and quiet process, and I and the other four patients in the room said goodbye tacitly and could not bear to look at it.
在这场疫情中，那是我第一次近距离地感受到死亡。
It was the first time in the epidemic that I felt death close.
后来又听说楼上的某某某去世了，我怕被负面情绪打扰，不敢多想。
Later heard that the upstairs so-and-so died, I am afraid of being disturbed by negative emotions, dare not think much.
医生每天查房都要给我们打气，说这个病没有特效药，最主要是要心态好，心理因素占到 70%。
Doctors every day to check room to cheer us up, that there is no specific medicine for the disease, the most important is to have a good mentality, psychological factors accounted for 70%.
医生说的话我记在心里，尽量不去想那些增加心里负担的事。
I keep in mind what the doctor says and try not to think about the things that add to my mental burdens.
住了几天，胸部 CT 显示病灶没有恶化，但也没有好转，医生建议我自己买些丙种球蛋白，我托身在上海的女儿找渠道买了 12 支，又找弟弟开车送来医院。
After a few days of living, the chest CT revealed that the lesion had not deteriorated, but had not improved. The doctor advised me to buy some gamma globulin myself.
丙种求球蛋白需要自费，600 元一支，每次打 4 支，从 2 月 5 号开始打，打到第 3 天，也就是 2 月 7 号，刚刚打完，也正是那天，我得知老婆和儿子也都确诊了，那一刻真的是快承受不住了。
C seed globulin need of self-pay, 600 yuan a piece, each play 4, from February 5, hit the 3rd day, that is, February 7, just finished, it is the same day, I learned that his wife and son have also been diagnosed, the moment is really fast can not bear.
家人群图源：受访者供但我一直有个信念，不要拖累生你的人和你生的人。
Source: Interviewee: but I always have a belief that you should not be a drag on the person who gave birth to you and the person you gave birth to.
没办法，我自己这种情况，只能把自己保重好，才能不给家人增加负担。
I have no choice but to take care of myself in this situation so as not to burden my family.
2 月 8 号上午，主任来看我，带来了一个好消息和一个坏消息。
On the morning of February 8, the director came to see me, bringing good news and bad news.
好消息是，丙种球蛋白起作用了，我肺部的病灶终于开始吸收了，没等我高兴，主任说我不能继续住这里了，因为当天武汉市卫健委新出台了个政策，不允许新冠肺炎患者跨区治疗。
The good news is that gamma globulin is working and my lung lesion is finally starting to absorb. Before I'm happy, the director says I can't stay here anymore because Wuhan Health Commission has a new policy that does not allow cross-district treatment for new cases of pneumonia.
一同被要求出院的，还有 3 床，她是武昌区的，武昌区挨着青山区，接到通知后就自己走了，至于走到隔离点去了还是去医院了，我不清楚。
She is from Wuchang District, next to the Qingshan District. She left on her own at short notice. As to whether she went to the quarantine point or to the hospital, I don't know.
而我是东西湖区的居民，两个区相距 20 多公里。
I am a resident of the East and West Lake District, which is more than 20 kilometers apart.
医生让我找居住地的社区安排转院事宜，我打电话到居住地——东西湖区吴家山社区，对方说他们安排不了，让我找普仁医院安排，社区工作人员还给我出主意，让我不要出院，说赖着不走医院也不可能赶我走。
The doctor asked me to find the community where I live to arrange the transfer. I called Wujiashan community in the East and West Lake District. The other side said they could not arrange for me to go to Puren Hospital.
但我接到主任的通知后，医院就把我的药都停了。
But when I got a call from the director, the hospital stopped taking all my pills.
包括一早一晚的中药，抗病毒药物和激素。
Includes an early night of Chinese medicine, antiviral drugs and hormones.
我实在没办法才告诉了上海的女儿。
I couldn't help telling my daughter in Shanghai.
2 月 8 号晚，女儿来电话让我明天中午之前赶到吴家山东方宾馆，也就是居住地的社区隔离点。
On the night of February 8, my daughter called and asked me to get to Wu Jiashan Oriental Hotel by noon tomorrow.
第二天一早，弟弟冒着被管制的风险开车来接我，因为没有通行证，一旦被查，车子很可能被扣押。
Early the next morning, my brother came to pick me up at the risk of being controlled, as he had no pass and was likely to be impounded if found.
2 月 9 号，我终于住进了社区隔离点。
On February 9th, I finally moved into the community quarantine.
但隔离点只提供中药，一早一晚各一袋。
But the isolation points only provide Chinese medicine, one bag a night.
说实话，那几天还是比较焦虑的。
To tell you the truth, I was worried about those days.
我在社区隔离点住了 4 天，这 4 天，武汉变化非常大，省委书记，市委书记都换了。
I spent four days in a community isolation center. For four days, Wuhan changed so much that the secretary of the provincial committee and the party secretary changed.
我最终没有按照那条政策住在所属地区的定点医院，而是去了武汉市第一人民医院。
Instead of staying at the designated hospital in my district, I ended up at Wuhan First People's Hospital.
2 月 13 号上午，我随救护车进了武汉市人民医院感染科 18 病区，一间房有两个病床，我住 1 床，住进去的当天，比我先一天住院的 2 床就告诉我，住我这张床的上一个病人当天早上才去世，是一个 31 岁的博士。
On the morning of February 13, I followed the ambulance into the 18-year-old infection section of Wuhan People's Hospital. One room had two beds and I stayed in one bed. On the day of my admission, I was told that the last patient in my bed had died that morning, a 31-year-old doctor.
听到这话我压力太大了，心想这个病死的人不都是老年人，有基础疾病的吗？这么年轻的小孩都去世了？但我转而告诫自己，一定要活着！这个小孩这么年轻就去世了，也许他的阳寿会给我，让我多活几年，所以我一定会好！3 天后，2 床的情况急转直接下，呼吸不好，吸氧机也上了，天天咳嗽，有一晚咳了一整夜，第二天清早，看见他床边满地的纸，大小便都失禁了。
I was under a lot of pressure to hear this, thinking that not all the sick and dying were old people, with underlying diseases? But instead I told myself to be alive! After three days, the boy died so young, maybe he gave me another few years to live!
我感到恐惧，要求医生给我换病房，等床位松散一些了，护士立马连着床将我推进了隔壁病房。
Feared with fear, I asked the doctor to change the room for me. When the bed became loose, the nurse immediately shoved me into the next room.
换了病房的第二天，我听打扫卫生的人说 2 床早上也走了。
On the second day of the change, I heard the cleaners say two beds were gone in the morning.
妈妈：我在方舱跳广场舞2 月 2 号是我印象最深的一天，当天上午，我把丈夫送进了青山普仁医院。
Mom: I was dancing in the square. February 2 was the day I most remember. That morning, I took my husband to Castle Peak Pun Hospital.
而 80 岁的父亲和 76 岁的母亲床位都还没有着落。
Neither the 80-year-old father nor the 76-year-old mother's bed is yet available.
要住院，必须先进社区的隔离点等床位，晚上 8 点左右，我让儿子开车送父母到隔离点。
To be hospitalized, I had to wait in a seclusion in an advanced community, and at around 8 p. m., I asked my son to drive my parents to the quarantine point.
等待了好几个小时，晚上 11 点左右，我们终于进了房间，这几个小时里，身在上海的女儿一直在给社区打电话，希望可以让老两口住一间房。
After waiting for hours, around 11 p.m., we finally entered the room, where my daughter, who was in Shanghai, had been calling the community for hours hoping to share a room with the old couple.
我母亲失聪 10 年了，戴上助听器还得配合说话者的嘴型才能勉强明白对方的意思，在那之前的一周时间里，她几乎没有进食，只有少量的饮水。
My mother, who had been deaf for 10 years and needed a hearing aid to understand the speaker's mouth, had barely eaten anything and had only a small amount of water for the previous week.
父亲的病情也很严重。
My father is also very ill.
安顿好父母，准备离开的时候，母亲望着我哭，父亲也被惹得流泪，我知道他们对陌生的环境感到恐惧，也担心我。
When my mother settled down and was ready to leave, my mother watched me cry and my father was tearful. I knew they were afraid of strange circumstances and worried about me.
回去的路上，接到社区的电话，说可以安排我父母住进东西湖区人民医院，问我现在住院还是明天一早去。
On the way back, I received a phone call from the community saying that I could arrange for my parents to stay at the People's Hospital in the East and West Lake Region.
我想现在不去，明天床位还在不在都不一定，便赶忙返回隔离点去接他们。
I don't think I'm going to go now, not sure if my bed is available tomorrow, so I hastened back to the quarantined area to meet them.
把父母送到医院后，我也住进了隔离点，到宾馆房间时，已经是 2 月 3 号凌晨 1 点半。
After taking my parents to the hospital, I also lived in a seclusion, and by the time I got to my hotel room, it was 1: 30 a.m. on February 3.
一躺下我就结结实实哭了一场，很释放。
As soon as I lay down I had a good cry and let go.
因为丈夫、父母都住院了，心里的石头终于放下了。
Because the husband, the parents are in the hospital, the heart of the stone finally laid down.
那晚睡得出奇地好，把前段日子缺的觉都补回来了。
He slept strangely that night and made up for the sleep he had lacked the other night.
其实家里人不知道的是，此前在医院给父亲拍片子的时候，我自己也查了一下，肺部感染了，不过还好是轻症。
In fact, the family did not know, before in the hospital to take pictures of my father, I checked myself, lung infection, but it is good for a mild disease.
2 月 7 号在隔离点检查核酸为阳性，我第二天就被送进了武汉客厅方舱。
February 7 at the isolation check nucleic acid positive, I was the next day was sent to Wuhan living room cabin.
这里分 ABCD 舱，我住在 A 舱，一个舱里又分区，我所在的区共有 20 张病床。
There are ABCD cabins here, I live in Class A, one compartment is divided, and my section has 20 beds.
床与床之间相隔一米左右。
The bed is about a metre apart.
我随身携带了一个装满酒精的小喷壶，一进舱就给每一张床都喷了酒精。
I carried a small kettle full of alcohol with me, and I sprayed alcohol on every bed as soon as I got in.
刚开始，舱里的病友都不怎么说话，气氛蛮压抑，我一去大家都觉得我挺热情。
At first, the sick people in the cabin didn't talk much, and the atmosphere was quite depressing.
妈妈在方舱医院的床位图源：受访者供第二天一早，我就在床边放歌跳舞，歌名叫《一晃就老了》很欢快，是我平时跳广场舞时喜欢的曲目。
My Mother's Bedspace Source in the Fangcao Hospital: Respondents provided me with songs and dances by the bed the next morning. It was called "Old Time Soon" and it was a very happy song that I used to like when I danced in the square.
我站在床边跳，也号召大家跟我一起跳，慢慢的，稀稀拉拉有人跟我一起做动作。
I stood on the edge of the bed and called on everyone to join me in the dance, slowly, sparsely someone with me to do action.
坚持了几天，舱里的病友觉得我很活泼，给我起了跟外号叫「花姑」。
For a few days, the sick people in the cabin thought I was very lively, gave me a nickname called "Flower Maid."
后来舱里来了个即将高考的学生，我们怕打扰她学习，就到外面去跳，其他舱有病友跟我们一起跳，也有护士和医生加入。
Then came a student about to take the college entrance examination, we were afraid to disturb her study, so we went out to jump, other cabin patients with us, nurses and doctors joined.
运动的种类变多了，广场舞、广播体操、太极。
There are many kinds of sports, such as square dancing, radio gymnastics and tai chi.
气氛活跃起来。
The atmosphere is alive.
方舱舞者图源：受访者供2 月 11 号，我女儿打电话说儿子也确诊了，下午就要来武汉客厅方舱。
Source: interviewee Feb. 11, my daughter called to say that her son was also diagnosed, and will come to Wuhan living room cabin in the afternoon.
那天下午我老早就跑到门口等他，人太多了，等了半天也没等到，后来发现他已经住进去了。
That afternoon, I always ran to the door to wait for him, too many people, waiting for a long time did not wait, and then found that he has lived in.
等儿子收拾好来 A 舱看我的时候，看他脸色不太好，我表面没反应，心里泪汪汪的。
When my son picked up and looked at me in cabin A, he didn't look very well. I didn't react.
那晚我一夜没睡，第二天一早心里闷得慌，就绕着我们那个区慢跑了一圈，感觉好多了。
I didn't sleep that night, and the next morning I was bored and jogged around our block, feeling much better.
后来我得知治愈的新冠肺炎患者可以捐献血浆，我准备去当志愿者。
Later I learned that patients with curable pneumonia could donate plasma and I was ready to volunteer.
弟弟：住过3 家医院、查了 5 次CT、做了10 次核酸我今年 23 岁，从 2 月 24 号第一次低烧到 3 月 14 号从雷神山出院。
Brother: 3 hospitals, 5 CT scans, 10 nucleic acids I'm 23 years old and I was discharged from Lui Shenshan on February 24, the first low fever.
这期间我一共住过 3 家医院、查了 5 次 CT、做了 10 次核酸。
During that time I spent three hospitals, five CT scans and ten nucleic acids.
除了最后两次核酸检测结果为阴性外，前 8 次中只有 1 次是阴性。
Except for the last two negative nucleic acid tests, only one of the first eight was negative.
我几乎没有任何症状，肺部 CT 的磨玻璃影非常小，医生说可以忽略不计。
I had almost no symptoms, and the CT glassy shadow of the lung was very small, and the doctors said it was negligible.
2 月 7 号进社区隔离点之前，我大部分时间充当了家里人的司机，空旷的街道让我感到陌生又新奇。
I spent most of my time as a chauffeur for my family until February 7, when I entered the community quarantine, and the open streets were strange and new to me.
武汉街头图源：受访者供2 月 12 号，我住进武汉客厅方舱医院。
Wuhan street map source: Respondents for February 12, I live in Wuhan living room cabin hospital.
在那之前，妈妈已经住进去了，她住 A 舱，我住 B 舱。
Before that, mom had already moved in. She was in cabin A, I was in cabin B.
妈妈很外向，属于典型的大妈，我知道她在跳舞，偶尔路过的时候会去看一眼，但无意加入。
Mom is very outgoing, belonging to the typical aunt, I know she is dancing, occasionally passing by a look, but did not intend to join.
在方舱的时候，天天喝中药，早晚各一袋，开始是 4 号方，后来改成 2 号方，一个写的是「康复期」，一个写的是「恢复期」，一个味道淡一点，一个味道重一点。
In the square cabin, drinking Chinese medicine every day, morning and night a bag, the first is Fang No. 4, later changed to Fang Fang, one wrote "convalescent period," one wrote "convalescent period," one taste lighter, one more flavor.
在方舱时，妈妈会帮我热一下，督促我喝完。
In the cabin, my mother will help me warm up, urging me to finish.
后来等我转去中南医院再转到雷神山，就逐渐不喝了，因为越来越苦……方舱的早饭图源：受访者供方舱的构造像一只蜘蛛，护士站是最中间的蛛身，排成列的床位是蜘蛛的脚。
Later, when I was transferred to Zhongnan Hospital and transferred to Lei Shenshan, I gradually stopped drinking it because it was becoming more and more bitter... The breakfast diagram of the cabin was made up like a spider, the nurse station was the central spider's body and the bed row was spider's feet.
那天，当听到护士站的广播报 683 号床的时候，我是比较崩溃的，因为那意味着上一次的核酸检测呈阳性。
The other day, when I heard the nurse's station's announcement of bed number 683, I was in a state of collapse, because that meant the last time I tested positive for nucleic acid.
那是我第 4 次阳性，看到隔壁床那位 60 岁的爹爹都可以出院了，我有一种努力没有却没有得到回报的感觉。
It was the fourth time I had tested positive. Seeing my 60-year-old dad in the next bed was ready to leave the hospital.
但沮丧到此为止，当又连续两次阳性，甚至第 7 次出现阴性的时候，我内心都毫无波澜。
But the depression ended there, and when I was twice positive, even when I was negative for the seventh time in a row, there was nothing wrong with me.
从方舱转到中南医院的时候，妈妈比较担心，我把医生对我说的话告诉她：有的患者肺部感染非常严重，但 CT 是阴性，这种患者是害自己，不害别人，而我正好相反，害别人不害自己。
When I was transferred from the cabin to Zhongnan Hospital, my mother was more worried. I told her what the doctor had told me. Some patients have very serious lung infections, but CT is negative.
我还把伤寒玛丽的故事讲给她听，说我就是故事中那个女佣。
I told her the story of typhoid Mary, saying that I was the maid in the story.
知道我问题不大，她多少放心一些。
She was more or less reassured to know that my problem was not great.
武汉客厅方舱图源：受访者供大姨：如果不进金银潭，我可能没命了1 月 22 号我就发烧了，当时武汉封城，家里没车，就天天骑我爸爸的电瓶车去附近的小诊所打针。
If I hadn't gotten into the gold and silver pool, I might have died of a fever on January 22nd. When Wuhan closed the city without a car, I rode my father's battery to a nearby clinic every day to get an injection.
打了几天针感觉越来越严重，诊所的医生让我去大医院看看。
After a few days of getting worse and worse, the doctor at the clinic asked me to go to the big hospital.
1 月 30，我被姐姐带去东西湖区人民医院拍片子。
January 30, my sister was taken to the East West Lake People's Hospital to film.
看了肺部 CT，医生说我的情况非常严重，传染性很强，说话的时候都尽量别过脸去，不让我对着他，我自己还好，但诊室门口的姐姐脸都吓白了。
I looked at the lung CT, the doctor said my condition is very serious, very infectious, when talking to try not to face him, I am all right, but my sister's face in front of the doctor's office was scared white.
当时武汉的床位太紧张，我父母还没住上院，上海的侄女在给我父母联系床位，妹妹也为这事跑了几趟社区，姐夫也感染了，姐姐两头跑着照顾父母和姐夫。
When the bed in Wuhan was so tight that my parents had not yet lived in the Upper House, my niece in Shanghai was contacting my parents in bed. My sister had made several trips to the community.
在东西湖区发热门诊打了两天针，2 月 1 号，我收到通知可以去金银潭医院，马上叫侄子开车送我去了。
After two days of injections at the Eastern and Western Lake District Fever Clinic, on February 1, I was informed that I could go to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and ask my nephew to drive me there immediately.
刚入院我就戴上了吸氧机，在金银潭的前几天，我呼吸非常差，气喘、乏力，不能进食，但是我逼着自己吃，食物呕出来又咽下去。
I put on an oxygen absorber just after admission, and the first few days of the gold and silver pool, I was breathing badly, gasping, exhausted and unable to eat, but I forced myself to eat and the food gagged and swallowed.
戴着吸氧机夜里根本无法入睡，鼻腔里都是血，我让医生开点镇定的药，医生说最好能自己睡。
There was no way to sleep at night with an oxygen inhaler. There was blood in my nose. I asked the doctor to prescribe some soothing medicine.
我感觉坐起来呼吸要好一点，前几天就这样半坐着睡的。
I feel better to sit up and breathe. I just sat half asleep the other day.
金银潭里没有中药喝，药物是阿比多尔、柯立芝和丙种球蛋白。
There is no Chinese medicine in gold and silver pools. The drugs are Abidor, Coolidge and gamma globulin.
好在，我的身体一直在好转，2 月 1 号入院的，2 月 14 号就出院回家了。
Fortunately, my health has been improving, February 1 hospital admission, February 14 on the hospital home.
回家后，听到老公说，刚住院的时候医生说我双肺都白了，他哭了好几次，没敢告诉我，我听后挺感动的。
When I got home, I heard my husband say that when I was in hospital, the doctor said my lungs were white. He cried several times.
在医院的时候，我隐约知道老公也感染了，是轻症，出院后才知道 22 岁的儿子也感染了，看肺部 CT 诊断书居然比老公还严重。
In the hospital, I vaguely know my husband is also infected, is a light disease, only after leaving hospital to know that 22-year-old son also infected, see lung CT diagnosis is worse than her husband.
我住院的那半个月里，因为没有核酸确诊，他们都在金银潭医院自费开了药，在家里隔离吃药。
During the half-month of my stay in the hospital, they prescribed drugs at their own expense at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, isolated at home to take the drug, as no nucleic acid had been diagnosed.
幸运的是，他们最近的核酸检测都为阴性。
Luckily, they all got negative nucleic acid tests recently.
文中林玲为化名。
Lin Ling is an alias.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一家 9 口感染新冠肺炎后康复的样本观察：比起目睹死亡，无医院收治才是更大的绝望。
A sample of nine people who had recovered from New Crown Pneumonia: No hospital treatment was more hopeless than witnessing death.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一家 9 口感染新冠肺炎后康复的样本观察：比起目睹死亡，无医院收治才是更大的绝望";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "我们是病人，也是家人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We are patients and family members.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
