严防境外疫情输入！北上广深再升级防控措施。
Strictly prevent the importation of foreign epidemic diseases! North to further upgrade control measures.
中国经营报                      。
China Business News.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
与中国企业同步成长，对话商业领袖，传播商业理想，服务商业人群，《中国经营报》掌控中国商界绝对话语权。
Growing in step with Chinese companies, dialogue with business leaders, spreading business ideals, serving the business community, The China Business Administration controls the absolute voice of the Chinese business community.
。
.
据国家卫健委官网消息，3月21日0—24时，31省份新增报告境外输入确诊病例45例(上海14例，北京13例，广东7例，福建4例，江苏2例，河北、浙江、江西、山东和四川各1例)。
From 0 to 2400 hours on March 21, a new 45 confirmed cases were reported from overseas in 31 provinces (14 in Shanghai, 13 in Beijing, 7 in Guangdong, 4 in Fujian, 2 in Jiangsu and 1 each in Hebei, Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Shandong and Sichuan).
截至3月21日24时，累计报告境外输入确诊病例314例。
As at 2400 hours on 21 March, 314 confirmed cases had been reported from outside the country.
境外输入风险持续加大，北京、上海、广州、深圳日前相继发布通知，进一步升级口岸防控措施。
The risk of overseas import continues to increase, and Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen have recently issued circulars to further upgrade control measures at ports.
资料图：北京市一境外进京人员集中观察点。
Figure: Beijing, one of the overseas personnel concentrated observation point.
中新社记者 侯宇 摄北京：23日起，所有到北京的国际客运航班均从12个指定点入境据民航局网站消息，民航局等五部门22日发布公告：自3月23日零时(北京时间)开始，所有目的地为北京的国际始发客运航班均须从天津、石家庄、太原、呼和浩特、上海浦东、济南、青岛、南京、沈阳、大连、郑州、西安12个指定的第一入境点入境。
Since March 23, all international passenger flights to Beijing have entered China from 12 designated first entry points: Tianjin, Shijiazhuang, Taiyuan, Huhhot, Shanghai Pudong, Jinan, Qingdao, Nanjing, Shenyang, Dalian, Zhengzhou and Xi'an, according to the Civil Aviation Administration's website.
各航空公司航班指定的第一入境点可以在民航局、航空公司官网上查询。
The designated first entry points for airline flights can be consulted on the Civil Aviation Administration and the Airline Officers' Web site.
乘坐上述国际航班的旅客在第一入境点实施检疫并办理入境手续，行李清关。
Passengers travelling on the above-mentioned international flights undergo quarantine and entry formalities and baggage clearance at the first point of entry.
检疫符合登机条件的旅客可搭乘原航班入京。
Quarantine eligible passengers can take the original flight to Beijing.
腹舱所带货物在北京清关。
The cargo in the belly is cleared in Beijing.
目的地为北京的国际航班指定第一入境点的安排及相关措施将根据疫情变化情况适时调整。
Arrangements for the designation of first entry points for international flights destined for Beijing and related measures will be adjusted as the epidemic evolves.
上海：入境来沪人员实施100%核酸检测据上海市政府新闻办公室官方微博消息，在22日举行的上海市疫情防控工作领导小组新闻发布会上，上海市卫健委表示，上海已经对所有来自或途经重点国家和地区的入境来沪人员实行100%隔离。
Shanghai has imposed a 100 percent quarantine on all incoming arrivals from or through key countries and regions, according to the official Weibo news conference of the Shanghai Municipal Government Information Office on Monday.
为了进一步加强口岸防控，除集中隔离人员外，上海将对所有来自非重点国家和地区的入境来沪人员实施100%新冠病毒核酸检测。
In order to further strengthen the control of ports, in addition to centralized quarantine personnel, Shanghai will be from all non-key countries and regions of entry into Shanghai to implement 100% of the new crown virus nucleic acid test.
资料图：入境人员从上海浦东机场T2航站楼国际到达层抵达。
Photo: Immigration personnel arrive from the international arrival level of the T2 terminal at Pudong Airport in Shanghai.
殷立勤 摄广州：这两类来穗人员实现核酸检测全覆盖据广州市人民政府官网消息，广州市新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控指挥部3月22日发布关于继续做好疫情防控工作的通告。
Yin Liqin and her colleagues achieved full coverage of nucleic acid detection The Guangzhou New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued a notice on March 22 on the continuation of good disease prevention and control work.
通告要求，对所有从境外(不含港澳台)经广州口岸入境的人员，以及经港澳台地区和市外口岸入境来穗且来穗前14天内有外国旅居史的人员，其目的地为广州的，实现核酸检测全覆盖，并一律实施14天居家或集中隔离医学观察。
The circular requests that all persons entering the territory from outside the territory (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) through the Guangzhou port, and those who have a foreign sojourn history at the port of Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan and who have a foreign sojourn history within 14 days before the ear is sent to Guangzhou.
通告明确，上述人员隔离期间一律不得外出，14天后无症状且再次核酸检测为阴性的，方可解除医学观察，集中隔离医学观察食宿费用自理。
The circular made it clear that none of the above-mentioned persons would be allowed to go out during isolation, that they would be released from medical observation after 14 days and that they would be asymptomatic and negative for reexamination of nucleic acid.
居家隔离医学观察人员违反规定的，转为集中隔离医学观察，并承担相应责任。
The home quarantined medical examiner violates the regulation, turns to the centralized quarantine medical observation, and assumes the corresponding responsibility.
请上述人员配合做好口岸筛查、专车接送、社区健康管理等工作。
Please cooperate with the above-mentioned people to do a good job of port screening, bus transfer, community health management.
深圳：来粤前14天内有国外旅居史的人员均进行核酸检测据公众号“深圳发布”，在3月21日举行的深圳疫情防控工作新闻发布会上，深圳市口岸办副主任贺群介绍：根据省防控境外输入指引第七版的意见，从3月21日起，所有从境外经广东口岸直接入境的人员以及经港澳台地区和省外口岸入境来粤且来粤前14天内有国外旅居史的人员，其目的地为深圳的，无论外国公民还是中国公民均一视同仁一律实行口岸入境卫生检疫核酸检测医学排查，集中接送到目的地社区安排14天隔离等防控措施。
Since March 21, according to the seventh edition of the Shenzhen Port Control and Prevention Guide, all persons entering Guangdong through Guangdong ports and those who have visited Guangdong through the port of entry for medical screening of Nucleic Acid Examinations will be implemented without discrimination from March 21.
其中核酸检测免费，集中接送的交通工具免费，但集中隔离期间的食宿费用由个人自理。
Nucleic acid testing is free of charge and centralized transport is free, but accommodation and food costs during centralized isolation are at the individual's own expense.
对持港澳通行证、回乡证等证件从深圳湾口岸来深的人员，如果过关前14天内没有外国旅行居住史的可不用实施疫情防控措施。
Those who come from Shenzhen Bay Port with Hong Kong and Macao Permits or certificates of return home may not be required to carry out epidemic prevention and control measures if they have no foreign travel or residence history within 14 days before passing through.
对于入境来深人员中的特殊群体，如14周岁以下的未成年人、孕产妇、患有基础性疾病的人员将采取人性化管理的原则给予妥善安排。
Special groups of persons entering the country, such as minors under the age of 14, pregnant women and persons suffering from basic diseases, will be given due consideration in accordance with the principle of humane management.
广东首例境外输入关联病例情况：系土耳其输入病例密接者据广州市卫健委官方微博消息，2020年3月21日0时至24时，广州市报告新冠肺炎新增确诊病例3例，其中菲律宾输入1例、土耳其输入1例、与土耳其输入关联1例。
According to the official Weijian Wei Boarding Committee of Guangzhou City, Guangzhou City reported 3 new confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia between 0000 and 2400 hours on March 21, 2020, including one imported from the Philippines, one from Turkey and one from Turkey.
据介绍，土耳其输入关联病例金某，是土耳其输入确诊病例林某的密切接触者，属境外输入关联病例。
It is reported that Turkey imports the related case Kimou, is Turkey imports the confirmed case Lin Mou's close contact person, belongs to the overseas input correlation case.
3月21日，疾控部门对金某进行流行病学调查时，对林某采样检测，检测结果为新冠病毒核酸阳性。
March 21, the disease control department to Jinmou epidemiological investigation, Lin sampling and testing, the test results for the new crown virus nucleic acid positive.
土耳其输入确诊病例林某的活动轨迹为：3月9日晚，从土耳其伊斯坦布尔乘坐TK0068航班(头等舱02A)经泰国曼谷转乘CZ364航班(头等舱1K)，于当天深夜抵达广州白云国际机场入境，机场检测体温正常。
Turkey's confirmed case Lin Mou's track of activity is: from Istanbul, Turkey, flight TK0068 (first class 02A) via Bangkok transfer CZ364 (first class 1K) late that night arrived at Baiyun International Airport in Guangzhou late that night.
按当时入境人员管理规定，不属于入境重点排查和社区健康服务管理对象。
According to the current regulations on the management of people entering the country, they are not among the key entry inspection and community health service management objects.
随后从机场乘坐朋友私家车返回家中。
He then returned home in a friend's private car from the airport.
林某回国后大部分时间在家，偶尔在家附近活动， 全程有佩戴口罩。
Lin returned to the majority of the time at home, occasional activities near home, the entire process wearing a mask.
国家卫健委：严防境外疫情输入！国家卫生健康委新闻发言人、宣传司副司长米锋在22日的国务院联防联控机制新闻发布会上表示：截至3月21日，有19个省份报告境外输入病例，其中最近7天内，有9个省份报告首例境外输入病例，病例来源国数量从12个增加到22个。
As of March 21, 19 provinces had reported overseas imports, of which nine provinces had reported the first overseas cases within the last seven days, and the number of source countries had increased from 12 to 22, said Wei Feng, spokesman for the National Health Commission and deputy director of publicity at the JCCM news conference on March 22.
目前，全球疫情已蔓延到180多个国家和地区，要严防境外疫情输入，按规定落实检疫、转运、治疗、隔离等措施，确保闭环运作。
At present, the global epidemic has spread to more than 180 countries and regions.It is imperative to strictly prevent the import of epidemic information from abroad and implement quarantine, transit, treatment and quarantine measures to ensure the operation of the closed loop.
文章来源：中国新闻网推荐阅读点击大图|纽约告急！美国确诊数据翻番，“富人优先检测”引发巨大争议点击大图|昨天，杭州景区堵成这样！北京市民排队赏春，成都的夜亮了，湖北也渐渐动了起来…。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Confirmed data doubled in the United States, with "rich people first" triggering a huge controversy yesterday at Hangzhou scenic spots! People queued up for spring viewing in Chengdu, where night was bright and Hubei moved.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
严防境外疫情输入！北上广深再升级防控措施。
Strictly prevent the importation of foreign epidemic diseases! North to further upgrade control measures.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "中国经营报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "严防境外疫情输入！北上广深再升级防控措施";。
var msg _ title = & quot; strictly prevent overseas import! & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "中国经营报 chinabusinessjournal";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinabusinessjournal & quot;;; China Business Newspaper.
title: '纽约告急！美国确诊数据翻番，“富人优先检测”引发巨大争议',。
New York City: Urgent! America's confirmed data have doubled, and Rich First Test has AT & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '昨天，杭州景区堵成这样！北京市民排队赏春，成都的夜亮了，湖北也渐渐动了起来…',。
Yesterday, Hangzhou was caught up in a scenic spot like this! Beijing residents waited in line to admire the spring at Chengdu's dawn and Hubei moved with service.
subject_name: '中国经营报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="中国经营报";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
