在人间丨武汉重症病房里的八十岁爱情。
80-year-old love in the world into a severe ward in Wuhan.
正云。
Positive clouds.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品打开凤凰新闻客户端，搜索「在人间」并关注在武汉汉口医院呼吸七病区，冯保会拎着吊瓶颤巍巍到另一个病房给妻子李绍华喂饭。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet in the world studio to open Phoenix News clients, search "in the world" and pay attention to Wuhan Hankou Hospital breathing seven areas, Feng Baohui carrying bottles tremble to another room to feed his wife Li Shaohua.
他把花甲肉一颗颗拨出来，放在纸杯里，再慢慢给妻子喂，像照顾小孩一样。
He plucked out the carcasses one by one, put them in a paper cup, and fed his wife slowly, like a baby.
他用武汉话哄着眼前的爱人，希望她再多吃一点。
He used Wuhan language to coax the immediate lover, hope she eats a little more.
同病房的病友把这个举动拍成视频发到网上，耄耋之年的爱情一下子感动了很多人。
The patient in the ward took this action and sent it to the internet. The love of his octogenarian years moved many people all at once.
冯保会88岁，李绍华83岁。
Feng is 88 and Li Shaohua is 83.
他们属于疫情期间最易受到冲击的老年群体，同时也是武汉无数家庭交叉感染案例的亲历者。
They belong to the most vulnerable elderly people during the epidemic, but also Wuhan numerous cases of cross-infection family experience.
幸运的是，两人在鬼门关转了一圈，都好好回到了人间。
Luckily, the two of them walked around the gate and returned to the world.
这其中有他们相濡以沫的爱情力量，也得益于家人和医护人员的悉心照顾。
They are helped by the strength of their love, and by the care and attention of their families and health-care workers.
冯家住在武汉江岸区。
The Fung family lives in Wuhan.
冯保会和李绍华住在一起，李绍华患有阿尔茨海默症，生活不能自理。
Feng will live with Li Shaohua, who suffers from Alzheimer's disease and is unable to look after himself.
他们有五个子女，其中四儿子叫冯世满，57岁。
They have five children, four of whom are named Feng Shimun, aged 57.
他们孙子冯云（化名）是冯世满的儿子，已成家。
Their grandson Feng Yun (alias) is Feng Shimun's son, has become a family.
冯世满和自己的儿孙住在附近三公里左右的另一个小区。
Feng and his children and grandchildren live in another neighborhood about three kilometers away.
由于父母年纪都很大，冯世满每天都要去帮两位老人准备好一天的食物。
Because his parents are very old, Feng Shimun helps two old people prepare food for the day every day.
他们常常在一起，也在一张桌子上吃饭。
They often eat together and at the same table.
母亲李绍华虽然患有阿尔茨海默症，但是认得儿子，也喜欢跟儿子说话。
Although his mother, Li Shaohua, suffers from Alzheimer's disease, she knows her son and likes to talk to him.
“她说的是她自己的语言，我也听不懂，她就是总想跟我拉着说话。
"She speaks her own language, I don't understand, she just keeps trying to talk to me.
”冯世满说。
'he said.
1月14日，冯云带着母亲、妻子和孩子一起开车去东莞过年，冯世满一个人留在武汉照顾父母。
On January 14, Feng Yun drove with his mother, wife and children to Dongguan for the Lunar New Year.
每天早上，冯世满带着母亲一起去菜市场买菜，再到小区里转一转，走一走，最后上楼做饭。
Every morning, Feng Shimang took his mother to the vegetable market to buy vegetables, then to the community around, walk, and finally go upstairs to cook.
彼时，他完全没有注意到一种病毒正在蔓延着。
At the time, he did not notice at all that a virus was spreading.
1月17日，冯世满感到身体不舒服，体温38.4度，在社区医院连续打了三天针，效果并不见好。
On January 17, Feng Shi Man, feeling unwell, had a temperature of 38.4 degrees and received three consecutive injections at the community hospital.
与此同时，远在东莞过年的冯云在网上看到新冠病毒出现了人传人的迹象。
Meanwhile, Feng Yun, who spent the New Year in Dongguan, saw signs of human-to-human transmission of the new crown virus online.
19日，他给父亲冯世满打电话，让他少出门，出门也要戴口罩。
On the 19th, he called his father Feng Shimun and told him to go out less often and wear masks when he went out.
结果父亲说自己已经发烧几天了。
The father said he had had a fever for several days.
1月20日到22日，冯世满在冯云的催促下，先后去了武汉汉口中心医院后湖院区、161医院和汉口医院，最终确诊住进汉口医院。
January 20 to 22, Feng Shimang in the urging of Feng Yun, has gone to Wuhan Hankou Central Hospital Houhu courtyard, 161 hospitals and Hankou Hospital, finally confirmed into Hankou Hospital.
意识到父亲已经被感染，需要人照顾的冯云，经过一夜长途跋涉，开车带母亲从东莞回到武汉，到达汉口医院。
Realizing his father was infected and in need of care, Feng Yun drove his mother back to Wuhan from Dongguan to Hankou Hospital after a long night's journey.
幸运的是，1月27日，冯世满治愈出院在家隔离。
Fortunately, on January 27, Feng Shi Man cured and was discharged from the hospital in isolation.
冯家进行了严密的防护，希望能够杜绝家庭聚集传染。
The Feng family has been heavily defended in the hope of stopping the spread of family agglomeration.
冯云此前就想过父亲可能会传染给爷爷奶奶。
Feng Yun had thought his father might infect his grandparents.
回武汉后他特意去爷爷奶奶家探望，没发现异样。
After returning to Wuhan, he went to visit his grandparents especially, but found nothing unusual.
1月28日晚上9点多，爷爷突然打来电话，说奶奶坐在地上几个小时都不起来。
January 28 more than 9 p.m., Grandpa suddenly called, said that Grandma sat on the ground for hours did not get up.
冯云过去，看到奶奶躺在地上，瑟瑟发抖。
Feng Yun passed by and saw Grandma lying on the ground, trembling.
冯云想着，要给他们量体温，一测，奶奶39度，爷爷38度。
Feng Yun thought, to take their temperature, a test, grandmother 39 degrees, grandpa 38 degrees.
冯云决定马上送二老去医院。
Feng Yun decided to take Elder to the hospital immediately.
“爷爷那时都不知道自己很严重，他也不知道新冠病毒，不知道外界发生了什么。
"Grandpa didn't know he was serious, he didn't know about the new crown virus, he didn't know what was happening outside.
”冯云说。
"said Feng Yun.
当晚10点，冯云带着爷爷奶奶来到汉口医院，当时医院有两三百人，重症大概30人左右。
That night at 10 o'clock, Feng Yun and his grandparents came to Hankou Hospital, where there were two or three hundred people, seriously ill about 30 people.
医院分为抢救室和普通门诊，抢救室的医生只负责抢救室和抢救室外围的重症患者，奶奶意识全无，属于重症。
The hospital is divided into rescue rooms and general outpatient clinics, rescue room doctors are only responsible for rescue rooms and rescue rooms outside the seriously ill, grandmother is completely unconscious, is a serious illness.
冯云把奶奶推到抢救室，医生量了血氧，不到70，就对冯云说，你要做好心理准备，奶奶估计过不了今天。
Feng Yun pushed Grandma to the rescue room. The doctor measured the blood oxygen. Less than 70, he told Feng Yun, "You must be prepared mentally.
“我就赶紧跟医生说，奶奶肯定是重症，你现在赶紧给她吸氧，赶紧给她塞栓子降温。
"I hastened to tell the doctor that Grandma must be in serious condition. You must give her oxygen now and try to cool her quickly.
我强烈要求医生来打针，我说虽然你跟我说奶奶过不了今晚，但是我既然来了，你就要帮我来救。
I urged the doctor to give the injection, and I said that although you told me Grandma would not pass the night, since I was here, you would help me.
”冯云说。
"said Feng Yun.
爷爷冯保会也做了CT检查和血液检测，基本可以证明是新冠感染者。
Grandpa Feng Bao also did CT examination and blood test, can basically prove to be the new crown infection.
但因为当时汉口医院没办法做核酸，无法确诊，只能进行基础治疗。
But because Hankou Hospital was unable to do nucleic acid, it could not be diagnosed, only basic treatment.
过去几天照顾父亲在医院奔走，冯云已经知道，治疗新冠最好的物理方法就是要不断吸收高浓度的氧。
Having spent the past few days caring for his father at the hospital, Feng Yun has learned that the best physical way to treat a new crown is to absorb high levels of oxygen.
现在住不了院，他也不能带他们回家，回家没有氧气。
He could not live in the hospital now, nor could he take them home without oxygen.
他拿了两条医院里的长条椅子，一个给奶奶，一个给爷爷，接着去家里拿床单被子，就让爷爷奶奶睡在医院。
He took two long hospital chairs, one for Grandma and one for Grandpa, then went home to get the sheets and let Grandma and Grandpa sleep in the hospital.
两人一人一个氧气瓶。
One oxygen cylinder for each person.
医院里其他病人也是如此。
The same is true of other patients in the hospital.
有的人从家里搬去躺椅，急诊室里大概有10个人，急诊室外面有20多个人。
Some people move out of their homes, about 10 people in the emergency room and more than 20 people outside the emergency room.
他们都没有确诊，医院不收，靠自费开药打针。
They were not diagnosed, the hospital did not charge, and they prescribed medication at their own expense.
两位老人就这样在医院度过了8、9天。
Thus the two old men spent eight or nine days in the hospital.
由于奶奶要换尿布，没有办法，冯云叫了姑妈来医院照顾奶奶。
As Grandma had to change her diaper, Feng Yun called her aunt to the hospital to look after her grandmother.
他每天继续去给爷爷奶奶送三餐，由爷爷负责喂奶奶。
He continued to send three meals to his grandparents every day, and grandpa was responsible for feeding her.
走廊里每天都有人离开，冯云每天都能看到一二十人死亡。
People left the hallway every day, and Feng Yun saw one to twenty people die every day.
人们都很恐惧，有思维的人看到身边的人走了，恐惧又会增加。
People are afraid. Thoughts increase when they see the people around them go.
“一旦引发并发症都没办法救，因为当时医院只有关于肺部的治疗方法。
"There was no cure for the complications, because the hospital had only a method of treating the lungs.
”冯云说。
"said Feng Yun.
冯云安慰爷爷奶奶，说爸爸已经出院了，只要加强营养，不断吸氧，会熬过去的。
Feng Yun comforted his grandparents by saying that Dad had been discharged from the hospital, as long as the nutrition, continue to breathe oxygen, will survive.
冯云认为，由于奶奶患有阿尔茨海默症，爷爷耳朵聋，都不知道自己到底得了什么病，也不会问，心理压力反而比较小。
Feng Yun thinks, because grandma suffers from Alzheimer's disease, grandpa is deaf, do not know what disease he has after all, also won't ask, psychological pressure is relatively small.
“那几天有机会做核酸检测，就给爷爷奶奶排进去了。
"I had a chance to do a nucleic acid test in those days, and grandma and grandpa got in.
2月4日结果就出来了，奶奶是双阳。
On February 4, the results came out. Grandma was Shuangyang.
”冯云回忆。
"Feng Yun recalled.
2月4日上午9点钟，护士长把奶奶推到广州医疗队负责的隔离区去了，奶奶终于从急诊室住到了重症监护室。
February 4 9: 00 a.m., the head nurse pushed her grandmother to Guangzhou medical team in charge of the quarantine area, grandmother finally from the emergency room to live in intensive care unit.
奶奶李绍华住院之后，爷爷冯保会吵着要回家，他觉得老伴都不在这里了，他一个人也不想留在医院。
Grandma Li Shaohua after the hospital, Grandpa Feng Bao will be noisy to go home, he felt that his wife is not here, he did not want to stay alone in the hospital.
但是冯云坚持让爷爷继续待在医院，等待住院。
But Feng Yun insisted that Grandpa stay in the hospital, waiting to be hospitalized.
2月5日爷爷也被收治入院。
Grandpa was also admitted to hospital on 5 February.
奶奶住院后，冯云也去做了CT检查。
After Grandma was hospitalized, Feng Yun also went for a CT scan.
“当时检查的时候都吓死了，后来医生告诉我，我是正常的。
"I was scared to death during the examination, and then the doctor told me that I was normal.
”2月5日，把爷爷送入病房后，冯云开始进行自我隔离。
After he was admitted to his hospital room on February 5, Feng Yun began to isolate himself.
李绍华被送到广东援鄂医疗队病房时，基本属于昏迷状态。
Li Shaohua was sent to Guangdong medical team hospital ward, basically in a coma.
一侧肺基本上都白了，另外一侧肺也白了一部分，血液指标不好，贫血、营养不良。
One side of the lung is basically white, the other side of the lung is also white, blood indicators are not good, anemia, malnutrition.
■ 李奶奶在病房。
Grandma Li is in the ward.
“她都昏迷了，你根本喂不了东西。
"She's in a coma. You can't feed anything.
” 郅敏说。
"said Mizhi.
郅敏是中山大学附属第六医院消化内科主任医师，她所在的援鄂第二批医疗队有39个医生和98个护士，共137人被分到汉口医院。
Her team of 39 doctors and 98 nurses from the second medical team in Hubei Province was assigned to Hankou Hospital, Zhongshan University.
郅敏回忆，当时李奶奶属于该病区照顾老人的典型案例。
Grandma Li, Menke recalls, was a typical case of caring for the elderly in the disease area.
李奶奶所在的呼吸七病区累计收治的150名患者中，超过60岁的就有84人。
Of the 150 patients admitted to Grandma Li's seven respiratory tract, 84 are over the age of 60.
大量的高龄病人跟李绍华一样，吃不下饭。
A large number of elderly patients, like Li Shaohua, can not eat.
每次吃几口就不想吃了，盒饭凉了之后再热，来回热了三四次后饭都硬了，更不想吃了。
Eating a few mouthfuls do not want to eat, after the box of rice cold and then hot, back and forth three or four times after the dinner is hard, not to mention eating.
当条件有限，食物也相对单调。
When conditions are limited, the food is relatively monotonous.
郅敏觉得，不能让病人继续再这样重下去了。
Mizhi feels it's important not to let patients go on like this again.
所有人都是第一次遇到新冠病毒，没有特效药，“我们当时就想，如果患者的营养好一点，康复的机会就大一点。
It was the first time anyone had encountered a new canopy virus, and there was no specific drug. "We thought if the patient was better nourished, the chances of recovery would be better.
”“我们一开始让家属买白蛋白，但是很多病人全家都病了，或者隔离了，根本就没有办法买。
"We started by asking families to buy albumin, but a lot of patients got sick or isolated and couldn't buy it at all.
当时我们就在想，到底能干点什么，先解决老年人营养不良的问题。
We were wondering what could be done to address the problem of malnutrition among the elderly first.
”■郅敏医生看望两位老人（受访者供图）广州医疗队一行出发前，考虑到上了前线，队里成员需要一边承受高强度的工作，一边可能没有充足的时间摄入足够的食物，保证不了营养，所以医院给每个医护人员发了一罐肠内营养粉剂。
Before the departure of the Guangzhou medical team, doctors Zhizhi paid attention to the fact that when they were on the front line, they had to endure a lot of work and probably didn't have enough time to eat enough food to ensure nutrition, so hospitals distributed a jar of enteral powder to each of their staff.
后来，队里又发了雅培全安素全营养配方粉（后简称“营养粉”）。
Later, the team issued Abbott full nutrition formula powder (hereinafter referred to as "nutrition powder").
郅敏当时就提议，把营养粉拿给李绍华。
Li Shaohua received the nutritive powder as a proposal from her Menke.
“我们给奶奶持续每天补充，这样从临床上就可以解决奶奶营养不良的问题，现在没有特效药，而营养好不好会直接影响到疾病最后临床结局这么一个重要的结果。
"We give Grandma daily supplements that clinically solve the problem of Grandma's malnutrition. There are no specific drugs, and good nutrition has a direct impact on the final clinical outcome of the disease.
”“我们当时说那我们都不要喝了，把这个省下来都拿去给病人吧”，郅敏说。
"We said then that we don't want to drink it, so save it for the sick," says Menke.
“一罐营养粉是1800卡，大概一天一个人正常的热量，一杯营养粉是250大卡，到300卡，一天喝几杯，哪怕不吃饭，一个人她当天的热量和营养就足够了。
"A jar of powdered nutrients is 1,800 calories a day, about a person's normal daily calorific value. A cup of powdered nutrients is 250 calories, to 300 calories, a few drinks a day, even if you don't eat, a person's calories and nutrients are enough for the day.
”2月8日，护理小组征求大家的意见，得到同意，就开始小范围实施。
On February 8, the nursing team asked for advice, got agreement and began implementing it on a small scale.
护士每4小时冲一杯，监督病人喝下去。
The nurse took a glass every four hours to watch the patient drink.
很快，本来是躺着的病人，因为营养好了，体力得到一定的恢复，慢慢就可以坐起来了。
Soon, the patient, who had been lying down, was able to sit up slowly because of good nutrition and a certain amount of physical recovery.
营养粉的消耗很大。
Nutrient meal consumption is very high.
郅敏联系雅培中国医学营养品部工作人员，问能不能再捐一些给医院，病人急需要用。
Mizhi contacted Abbott's staff in China's Department of Medical Nutrition and asked if they could donate some more to hospitals. Patients need it urgently.
这家公司二话不说，马上又捐给医院50箱营养粉，特意直送到医院。
Without saying a word, the company donated another 50 cases of powdered nutrients to the hospital, which it sent directly to the hospital.
■队员们给李奶奶送去自己的雅培全安素全营养配方粉（受访者供图）奶奶李绍华在重症监护室时，医生开始让她喝营养粉。
Granny Li Shaohua was in the intensive care unit when the doctors started to give her a nutritious powder.
除了积极治疗新冠肺炎外，医护人员还按照五阶梯方法对李奶奶制定了个性化的营养摄入方案。
In addition to active treatment of new crown pneumonia, health care workers have developed a personalized nutritional intake plan for Grandma Li in accordance with the five-step approach.
郅敏说：“最早，我们给李奶奶进行部分肠内营养（经口途径营养粉摄入）和部分口服食物的方法，但是发现不行，后来就以肠内营养（经口途径营养粉摄入）为主，加部分的口服食物。
"Initially, we used to give Grandma Li some enteral nutrition (oral nutrition) and part of the oral diet, but it didn't work, and later on we used enteral nutrition (oral nutrition) as the main ingredient, plus part of the oral food," she said.
”虽然爷爷冯保会的症状比奶奶轻，住在普通病房，但因为年纪大，也被要求喝营养粉补充营养。
Although grandpa Feng Bao's symptoms are lighter than those of her grandmother and he lives in the general ward, he is also required to drink powdered nutrients to supplement his nutrition as he gets older.
两个人住在同一个病区不同病房。
Two people live in different wards in the same ward.
爷爷也要打针，但每天早中晚，爷爷都不在自己的床位，而是出现在奶奶的床位旁。
Grandpa wanted to do the needles, but every morning and night, Grandpa wasn't in his bed, but appeared next to Grandma's bed.
最初谁也不知道他们是夫妻。
At first no one knew they were husband and wife.
有一次下午一点，护士孙小玉看到手上还在输注补液的冯爷爷起床，一手持补液，一手握着一个纸杯，纸杯里放着一双筷子，颤颤巍巍地朝着护士站的另一边走去热饭。
At one o'clock one afternoon, the nurse Sun Xiaoyu saw Grandpa Feng, who was still pouring fluid into his hands, get up. He held a paper cup in one hand and a pair of chopsticks in the other, and walked trembling to the other side of the nurse's station.
然后打开饭盒把自己餐盒内的花甲拨开，取出花甲肉连同炒鸡蛋一起放入纸杯里，又走到护士站的另一边病房，不见踪影。
Then, unpacking the carton, he took out the meat and scrambled eggs and put them in a paper cup. He walked to the other side of the nurse's station and disappeared.
还有一次，夜里凌晨，孙小玉巡视病房，看到冯爷爷端着半盆热水从护士站另一侧走过来，并且走错了房间，去了另一个病房。
On another occasion, in the early hours of the night, while visiting the ward, he saw Grandpa Feng come over from the other side of the nurses' station with half a basin of hot water, and went to the wrong room to another ward.
她以为老人家走错了路。
She thought the old man had gone astray.
又一次零点时分，巡视病房时，她发现冯爷爷又穿上了厚厚的外套，并且半卧姿势。
As she walked around the ward at midnight, she noticed that Grandpa Feng had put on his thick coat again and was lying half-asleep.
她之后才知道，他是起床看妻子睡得好不好。
She found out later that he had got up to see how his wife was sleeping.
冯爷爷后来告诉医护人员：“我在对面房间住，（夜里）我总是要起来三遍、四遍，看看她的被子盖好了没有……”■冯保会正在给妻子喂饭（视频来源：齐鲁网）护士给李绍华喂饭时，她不吃，爷爷来喂，她才开口吃一点。
Grandpa Feng later told the paramedics, "I always get up three or four times (at night) to see if her quilt is covered..." Feng Bao is feeding his wife.
“她对爷爷很依赖，爷爷说乖，吃饭，她就张口。
"She's so dependent on Grandpa," he said. "Eat, and she opens her mouth.
爷爷会说，这个肉你最喜欢了……吃点面，吃个蛋蛋，有营养。
Grandpa would say, this meat you like most... eat some noodles, eat an egg, have nutrition.
”冯爷爷每天给奶奶喂完饭，才吃自己。
"Grandpa Feng ate himself after he fed his grandmother every day.
二老胃口不好，一盒饭往往两个人吃。
Old people have a bad appetite. A box of rice is often eaten by two people.
为此医生为此每天额外再让他们喝四五杯营养粉。
To this end, doctors give them an extra four or five glasses of nutritional powder a day.
一个礼拜后，李绍华奶奶从重症监护室转到普通隔离病房。
A week later, Grandma Li Shaowa was transferred from the intensive care unit to the general isolation ward.
再后来，郅敏去查房，冯保会报喜一般说，她今天可以自己坐起来，吃了一个馒头。
Later, her successor Zhizhi went to the house, Feng Baohui reported that she can sit up and eat a steamed bun today.
同病房的病友拍摄了冯爷爷照顾李奶奶的视频传到网上，两位老人迅速被很多网友关注。
With the sick patient in the ward to take care of grandma Li Feng video upload to the Internet, the two old people were quickly concerned by many netizens.
温暖的感情给病房的其他病人也带来希望。
The warmth of the emotions gives hope to other patients in the ward as well.
■ 出院前，冯爷爷和李奶奶在病房。
Before discharge from hospital, Grandpa Feng and Grandma Li were in the ward.
冯爷爷跟医护人员说，她年轻的时候很能干的，她比我还能说，比我还识大体，我们家里里外外都是她，她为我们家做了不少贡献，不能她现在病了我就不管她，人要讲良心。
Grandpa Feng told the paramedics that she was very capable when she was young, that she was more capable than me, that she was more or less familiar than I was, that she was both inside and outside our house, that she had done a lot for our family, that she could not, that she was ill now, and that I would listen to her conscience.
李绍华年轻时做事风风火火。
Li Shaohua was a young man.
儿子冯世满说，她很能干，一个人养5个小孩，自己的工作也是妈妈帮忙找到的。
'She was very capable, 'says her son Feng, who raised five children on her own, and helped find her job.
她后来在武汉市第二帆布厂上班，50岁退休后，就在外面卖东西，早上卖兰花、栀子花，下午还要进点菜卖。
After retiring at the age of 50, she sold things outside. She sold orchids and gardenia flowers in the morning and ordered food in the afternoon.
冯云眼中，爷爷就是好男人的形象，而奶奶则是女强人。
In Feng Yun's eyes, Grandpa is the image of a good man, while Grandma is a strong woman.
“奶奶年轻时一个人照顾家庭，爷爷在造纸厂当顾问。
"Grandma was a family man when she was young, and Grandpa worked as a consultant in a paper mill.
家里的事情基本上都是奶奶说了算，爷爷只负责工作，两人从来不吵架。
At home things are basically grandma's decision, grandpa is only responsible for work, two people never quarrel.
他们俩感情非常好，总是轻言细语的，我父亲很会讲故事，讲到我妈笑的不得了”，冯世满说。
They were very affectionate, always soft-spoken, my father was a good story-teller and talked about how my mother laughed, "Feng said.
后来，李绍华的朋友发现她总是丢三落四，钥匙放在哪里也不知道，总是在找东西。
Later, Li Shaohua's friends found that she was always forgetful, did not know where the key is, always looking for things.
家人带她去医院检查，医生说她患老年痴呆了。
Her family took her to the hospital for a check-up, and the doctor said she had Alzheimer's.
早几年，李绍华经常走丢，有一次出去了48个小时，家人报警，到处找，被人送到派出所才找到。
A few years earlier, Li Shaohua often lost, one time out for 48 hours, family members called the police, looked around, was taken to the police station to find.
当时冯爷爷急的不得了，家人报警之后，他第二天又跑到派出所去，说我老婆找不见了。
At that time, Grandpa Feng anxious, after the family called the police, he ran to the police station the next day, said my wife found missing.
“现在就是搞反了，我爸照顾我妈了，以前都是妈妈照顾爸爸”，冯世满说。
"Now it's the other way around. My dad took care of my mother, and she used to take care of him," Feng said.
■ 2月26日，出院当天，李奶奶在病区走廊试着走了一段路。
▪ On 26 February, the day of discharge, Grandma Li tried to walk some distance in the corridor of the sick area.
李绍华虽然患有阿尔茨海默症7年，但入院之前是可以走路的。
Although he suffered from Alzheimer's for seven years, he was able to walk before admission.
医护人员又尝试让她下床走路。
The paramedics tried to get her out of bed again.
“护士拉着她，说奶奶你坐起来，奶奶不理。
"The nurse took her by the hand and said that Grandma would ignore you as you sat up.
她就把两个手臂张开说，奶奶你到我怀里来，奶奶坐起来就扑到她怀里，就跟小孩一样”，郅敏说。
She opens her arms and says, "Grandma, come to me and sit up in her arms, just like a child," says Mizhi.
2月26日，88岁的冯爷爷，83岁的李奶奶，一起出院了。
Feb. 26, 88-year-old Grandpa Feng, 83-year-old grandmother Li, was discharged together.
快走出医院的时候，冯爷爷对着奶奶喊：“李绍华，你没有想到你有今天，你居然可以出院。
Just as he was about to leave the hospital, Grandpa Feng called to his grandmother, Li Shaohua, you didn't think you could leave the hospital today.
”所有人都笑了。
"Everyone laughed.
3月12日，他们去医院复查，进行核酸检测，检测为阴性。
On 12 March, they went to the hospital for a reexamination, where they tested negative for nucleic acid.
3月16日，进行了第二次核酸检测，结果仍为阴性。
On 16 March, a second nucleic acid test was conducted, with negative results.
现在，冯世满到父母家跟他们一起隔离，帮父母做饭，同时照顾他们。
Now, Feng Shimeng comes to his parents' home to isolate them, help their parents cook, and take care of them.
回家时，医院送了很多全营养配方粉，冯世满说现在二老每天要喝四次，他和父亲还坚持每天一起扶母亲锻炼行走。
When he returned home, the hospital gave him a lot of all-nutrient formula. Feng said he now drinks four times a day, and he and his father still help their mother exercise every day.
下午，李绍华总要上床睡会儿，冯保会也会陪着妻子一起睡。
In the afternoon, Li always goes to bed and Feng will sleep with his wife.
他们终于熬过了这个冬天。
They finally pulled through the winter.
（冯云为化名）更多疫情故事，请点击左下角「阅读原文」。
For more stories about the outbreak, please click "Read the original text" at the bottom left corner.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨武汉重症病房里的八十岁爱情。
80-year-old love in the world into a severe ward in Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨武汉重症病房里的八十岁爱情";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 80-year-old love in the world's gravest ward;;
var msg_desc = "爷爷说乖，吃饭，奶奶就张口。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Grandpa says good, eat, and Grandma opens her mouth.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨妈妈72小时没睡帮抢票，我终于从波士顿回到北京',。
I finally returned to Beijing from Boston to AT & amp; apos; t sleep for 72 hours.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨爸爸去世25天了，我还没有告诉妈妈',。
I didn't tell my mother or mother 25 days after their death.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨湖北的透析病人：骑行30公里，凌晨一点半去医院隔离',。
Dialysis patient: Ride 30 km to the hospital at 1: 30 a.m. to isolate and qualify for dialysis.
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
