非典结束不久，外交部公布了一批解密档案。
Shortly after SARS ended, the Foreign Ministry released a batch of declassified files.
冯超。
Feng Chao.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：冯超来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders)打开手机看新闻，当下的主题除了疫情、经济，便是外交了。
Author: Feng Chaoyuan: Businessman (ID: biz-leaders) opens his mobile phone to read the news.
看历史书时，想起一则外交部的往事，遂写篇短文。
When reading history books, I remembered an old story from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and wrote an essay.
壹2004年1月16日，非典刚过去几个月，外交部举行了“外交部开放档案借阅处”揭牌仪式。
On January 16, 2004, just a few months after SARS, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a ceremony to open the archives loan office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
这是一个重大的标志，即外交部保存的、部分新中国成立以来的外交档案正式对国内外开放。
This is an important symbol that the diplomatic files kept by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since the founding of New China have been officially opened to the outside world.
通俗地说，这是外交部首次对外开放外交档案。
This is the first time the Foreign Ministry has opened its diplomatic archives.
也是一个部委机构首次对外开放档案。
It is also the first time a ministry has opened its archives.
开放档案借阅处当时就在外交部南配楼7楼，有几台电脑，可以检索档案名目，查阅详细的档案资料。
The Open Archives Borrowing Office was on the seventh floor of the South Annex Building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and had several computers with which to retrieve the file titles and access detailed archival information.
譬如，在电脑上输入中国+苏联+某位领导人的名字，就能看到一系列文档。
For example, by typing the name of a Chinese + Soviet + leader on a computer, you can see a series of files.
中国人、华人、华侨以及外国组织都可以查阅。
It is available to Chinese, Chinese, overseas Chinese and foreign organizations.
当然，用户还要为每份档案缴纳借阅费；档案打印，依据张数收费。
Of course, users will also have to pay a loan fee for each file; file printing, based on the number of tickets charged.
2004年开放的这批档案，是外交部1949年-1955年形成的档案，开放数量占这一时期档案总量的30%。
The archives, which were opened in 2004, are those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1949 to 1955 and account for 30 per cent of the total number of files opened during that period.
接着，2006年，外交部开放第二批档案，是1956-1960年形成的档案，占当期档案总量的60%。
Subsequently, in 2006, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs opened the second set of archives, which had been created in 1956-1960 and accounted for 60 per cent of the current archives.
2008年开放第三批，时间跨度为1960—1965年(实际开放的档案，有部分延伸涉及到1966年)，占当期档案总量的70%。
The third wave was opened in 2008, spanning the period 1960-1965 (archives actually opened and partly extended to 1966) and accounting for 70 per cent of the total number of current files.
贰早在1999年，外交部就成立了“开放档案鉴定小组”，启动解密工作。
As early as 1999, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs set up an "open file appraisal team" to start declassification work.
有百余名在职和离退休的外交官参加任务艰巨的解密工作。
More than 100 serving and retired diplomats participated in the arduous task of declassification.
工作流程有几步。
There are several steps in the workflow.
据《新京报》报道，首先由工作组对档案进行解密审查；“再由外交部各主要司局及涉档有关中央部委审核，然后经外交部档案鉴定开放领导小组审定和外交部部务会议通过，最后将公布外交档案的计划和目录呈报国务院审批”。
According to the Beijing News, the archives will first be declassified by a working group. "It will then be examined by the main departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the relevant central ministries concerned, and then approved by the Open Leading Group for Archival Authentication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the ministerial meeting.
解密工作的一个指导原则是，依据国情和实际情况，不影响国家利益、不影响与其他国家的关系、不涉及个人隐私、不影响民族团结。
A guiding principle of the declassification process is that, according to national circumstances and realities, it does not affect national interests, does not affect relations with other States, does not involve individual privacy and does not affect national unity.
《新京报》采访了参与解密工作的有关人士。
The Beijing News interviewed people involved in the declassification work.
有人回忆说，在新中国成立初期的一些档案里，一些国家被称为“美国走狗”，在审核档案时，有人认为不宜公开，但是经过讨论，一些不准备开放的档案也开放了。
Some people recall that in the early days of New China, some countries were called "American lackeys," and when the files were examined, it was considered inappropriate to make them public, but after discussion, some archives that were not intended to be opened were also opened.
还有些是限时销毁的文件，最后都也公开了。
Others are time-bound documents that are eventually made public.
叁外交部分三批开放的档案，解密的时间跨度是从1949年—1965年。
The three ministries of foreign affairs have opened archives in three batches, the declassification time span from 1949 to 1965.
读者借阅档案后，可以看到请示及指示文件，各种重大外交事件文电、条约、会议记录、谈判等等。
After borrowing the files, the reader can see the documents of instruction and instruction, important diplomatic affairs, treaties, minutes of meetings, negotiations, etc.
譬如，2006年解密的档案中，首次向社会公开的有中美大使级会谈档案，档案涉及从1956年1月12日起至1960年12月1日期间的71次中美大使级会谈。
For example, the archives of the Sino-American ambassadorial talks, covering 71 ambassadorial-level talks between China and the United States from 12 January 1956 to 1 December 1960, were first made public to the public.
开放档案显示，这些会议主要围绕中国留学生回国、美国对中国禁运、美国干涉中国解放台湾等议题。
Open records show that the meetings focused on issues such as the return of Chinese students, the US embargo against China and US interference in China's liberation of Taiwan.
开放档案包括中方对会谈的考虑、对策，以及前方进行谈判的进程、口径等往来电报。
The opening of the archives includes China's consideration of the talks, countermeasures, as well as the progress of the negotiations ahead, the calibre and other exchanges of telegrams.
1956年中国放弃起诉日本战犯事件，也在档案中进行披露。
In 1956, China abandoned the prosecution of Japanese war criminals and disclosed it in its archives.
2008年解密的档案，是外交部三次解密档案数量最多的一次，其中涉及中苏关系演变的开放档案非常多。
The number of files declassified in 2008 is the largest of the three declassified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
包括领导人对中苏关系的指示、批示、内部讲话、谈判记录、往来电报等等，记录了中苏两党意识形态的论战过程。
They include instructions, directives, internal speeches, minutes of negotiations, and telegrams and so on regarding the relations between China and Soviet Union, and record the ideological debate between the two parties.
当然，这只是解密档案中的小小的一部分而已。
Of course, this is only a small part of the declassified file.
肆当外交部开放档案后，首批等待借阅的人中，有位华东师范大学教授，名叫沈志华，他是一位冷战史、中苏关系史家，外交是也是他研究的重点方向。
When the Foreign Ministry opened its archives, one of the first people to wait for loan was Shen Zhihua, a professor at East China Normal University.
沈志华是一个奇人，早些年入狱，后来经商挣了不少钱后，又投入到自己喜爱的历史研究之中。
Shen Zhihua was a curious man who went to prison a few years earlier, and after making a lot of money in business, he went back to his favorite historical research.
苏联解体后，俄罗斯政府一度在上世纪90年代开放了苏联时期的档案。
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Russian government once opened Soviet-era archives in the 1990s.
这算当时历史学界的一个大事。
This was a major event in history.
沈志华几次前往苏联，复印了大批档案，美国是苏联档案的大买家，他又跑到美国，去复印档案。
Shen went to the Soviet Union several times, photocopied a large number of files, the United States is a major buyer of Soviet archives, he went to the United States, to copy files.
为了这批档案，他一共花了约百万元。
He spent a total of about one million yuan on the files.
这些买档案的成果，便是近2000万字，共36册的《苏联历史档案选编》。
The result of these purchases was a 36-volume collection of nearly 20 million words of Soviet historical archives.
这套书，为研究国际关系提供了一手的资料。
This set of books provides first-hand information for the study of international relations.
历史学家离不开档案。
Historians cannot live without archives.
外交部开放档案后，他也发现了不少有价值的文献。
After the Foreign Office opened the archives, he also found many valuable documents.
档案需要爬梳、比对、建立逻辑链条、小心论证。
Files need to be combed, collated, logical chains built, and carefully argued.
这也是外交部公布档案的意义：为历史学家提供底稿，通过他们客观、谨慎的研究，可以让一般读者更好了解外交历史的原貌，让民众更能客观理解国与国的关系，避免偏见与盲目。
This is what it means for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to publish files: to provide historians with manuscripts that, through their objective and careful research, will enable the general reader to better understand the true state of diplomatic history, to make people more objective in their understanding of state-to-state relations, and to avoid prejudice and blindness.
当然，开放档案的另一个意义，在当时被认为是一个国家自信的表现，受到学界和舆论的赞扬。
The other significance of open archives, of course, was seen at the time as a sign of confidence in a country, praised by academics and public opinion alike.
毕竟，涉及国家利益最多的，外交部门算其中一个。
After all, the foreign service is one of the countries most at stake.
当外交部开放档案时，依据的是《外交部档案馆开放档案暂行办法》。
When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs opened the archives, it relied on the Interim Measures for Opening Archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
规定称：“本馆馆藏档案，自形成之日起满30年，凡按有关规定无需继续保密或控制使用的，报外交部外交档案鉴定开放领导小组和国务院批准，分期分批向社会开放。
"If, according to the relevant regulations, the archives of the library collection need not be kept secret or controlled for another 30 years from the date of their formation, they shall be submitted to the Leading Group for Accreditation of Diplomatic Archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Council for approval.
”30年时限，是国际通行的时限。
The 30-year time limit is the time limit for international use.
不过，凡“无需继续保密或控制使用的”中国外交档案在经过一定的报批程序后，才“分期分批向社会开放”。
However, Chinese diplomatic files that do not need to be kept secret or controlled will be opened to the public in stages only after a certain number of approval procedures.
言下之意是，需要继续保密或控制使用的，暂时不会向社会开放。
Implicit is the need to maintain confidentiality or control of the use of the temporary will not be open to society.
伍2008年公布第三批档案后，当时《国际先驱导报》的一篇报道称，它计划在未来三年完成1965-1977年的档案解密工作，实现逐年的解密开放。
Following the release of the third set of files in 2008, the International Herald Tribune reported that it planned to complete the declassification of the 1965-1977 archives over the next three years and to open them year after year.
不过，自2008年第三批档案公布后，暂时没有新的解密档案对外公布。
However, no new declassified files have been made public since the release of the third batch of files in 2008.
参考资料：《外交部重大历史档案解密过程独家披露》，华夏时报；《外交部最新解密档案：公布中苏关系演变文件》，国际先驱导报；《中国外交档案解密过程揭密》，新京报。
Reference: Exclusive Disclosure of the Declassification Process of Major Historical Archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, China Times; Updated Declassified Archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Publication of Documents on the Evolution of Sino-Soviet Relations, International Herald Tribune; Declassification Process of Chinese Diplomatic Archive, Beijing News.
*头图购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Headline purchase in Visual China Recommended Reading Solemn Statement: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
非典结束不久，外交部公布了一批解密档案。
Shortly after SARS ended, the Foreign Ministry released a batch of declassified files.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "非典结束不久，外交部公布了一批解密档案";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; shortly after SARS ended.
var msg_desc = "当下，也会成为档案。
var msg _ desc = & quot; now, too.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '通过协和医院，看企业家的慈善段位',。
Through Concorde Hospital, see AT & amp; T's charitable department & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉动物：遗弃、流浪、厮杀、死亡',。
Wuhan Animal: Abandoned, vagabond, killed, killed or killed.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '给体育大年算本账',。
AT & P's expense & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
