一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天。
Self-Help for a Suspected Crown Patient: Take the medicine in exchange for a prescription and chat through the door.
安卓。
Android.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
29.01.2020本文字数：2510，阅读时长大约4分钟导读：他将自己隔离在家里的主卧室里，自己和家人都戴着口罩和手套，偶尔他们会聊天，中间隔着紧闭的房门。
He isolates himself and his family in the main bedroom of the house, wearing masks and gloves, occasionally chatting and with closed doors in between.
作者 | 第一财经安卓1月27日凌晨1点，汉口的刘文（化名）步行了近4公里来到医院，被疲惫不堪的医生诊断是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疑似病例，但暂不严重，随后，他回家进入了自我隔离、自我用药的状态。
At 1 a.m. on January 27, Liu Wen (not his real name) from Hankou walked nearly four kilometers to the hospital, where he was diagnosed by a jaded doctor as a suspected but not serious case of pneumonia related to a new coronavirus.
“我的母亲也出现了类似症状，孩子没事，妻子的精神已处于崩溃边缘，目前也开始发烧，丈母娘急得到处打电话，但我不能慌。
"My mother-in-law had similar symptoms, the child was all right, the wife was on the verge of collapse, she was running a fever and my mother-in-law was anxious to call, but I couldn't panic.
”刘文在接受记者远程网络采访时说，这几天隔离，让他感觉到，治疗和心态密切相关。
In a remote online interview with reporters, Liu said the days of isolation had made him feel that treatment was closely related to mentality.
“积极解决问题，抱怨是没用的，新冠肺炎的传染性太强，但就威力来说，自我感觉，和SARS没法比，当然，这也和我平时身体比较好有关。
"It's no use actively addressing the problem, complaining that pneumonia is too contagious, but in terms of power, self-perception is not comparable to SARS, and of course it has to do with my better health.
”他说。
'he said.
刘文也将自己的经历写到了网上，他希望能让更多人看到他的自我治疗方案，让大家更加理性地面对眼前的困境，保持积极的心态。
Liu Wen also wrote about his experiences on the Internet. He hopes to make his self-treatment more visible, so that everyone can face the current difficulties more rationally and keep a positive attitude.
截至1月27日24时，国家卫生健康委收到30个省（区、市）累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例4515例，重症病例976例，累计死亡病例106例，累计治愈出院60例，疑似病例6973例。
As of 2400 hours on January 27, the NCHC had received a total of 4515 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection, 976 cases of severe cases, 106 cases of cumulative death, 60 cases of cure and 69 cases of suspected case of coronavirus infection.
另外，已累计追踪到密切接触者47833人，当日解除医学观察914人，44132人正在接受医学观察。
In addition, a total of 47,833 close contacts have been traced, 914 medical observations were lifted on the same day and 44132 are under medical observation.
自我隔离其实，每一年的春节，刘文都会选择带着家人外出度假，但这一次，由于恰逢孩子期末考试后要参加写字班，以及一个必须参加的芭蕾舞文艺演出，导致他和家人停留在了武汉，也就发生了后来的一系列事情。
Self-segregation In fact, every Spring Festival, Liu Wen will choose to take his family on holiday, but this time, due to the children after the final examination to participate in writing classes, and a mandatory ballet performances, resulting in him and his family stay in Wuhan, then a series of things happened.
刘文早前在媒体工作，长期的职业素养，让他具备了高度的信息敏感性。
Liu Wen worked earlier in the media, long-term professional literacy, so that he has a high degree of information sensitivity.
早在元旦期间，一份名为《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》在网络上广泛传播，刘文当时就有种不好的预感，并始终对突如其来的疫情保持足够的重视。
As early as the New Year's Day, a "Emergency Notice on the Treatment of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia" was widely circulated on the Internet. Liu Wen had a bad feeling at the time and always paid enough attention to the unexpected outbreak.
元旦之后，刘文就储备了70多个n95口罩、普通口罩100个、500双手套。
After the New Year's Day, Liu Wen saved more than 70 n95 masks, 100 ordinary masks, 500 pairs of hands.
“很多人注意口罩，但忽略手套了，我觉得这个也重要。
"A lot of people pay attention to masks, but ignore gloves. I think this is also important.
”但他和母亲还是出现了疑似症状。
But he and his mother still have suspected symptoms.
1月22日-24日期间，刘文开始出现了感冒症状，此时，网上消息已经铺天盖地，赶紧进入居家隔离状态，连出门丢垃圾都是戴着口罩严密防护。
From January 22 to 24, Liu Wen began to develop cold symptoms, at this time, the Internet has been a flood of news, hurriedly into the isolation of the home, even to throw out the garbage is wearing a mask tight protection.
24日下午，他给母亲打电话，得知老人也发烧了，刘文觉得事态不对。
On the afternoon of the 24th, he phoned his mother and learned that the old man had a fever too.
提前购买的奥司他韦已经在22日就开始每日服用一粒的预防模式，再加上莲花清瘟胶囊，也即时开始服用。
The advance purchase of oseltamivir has started to take a daily preventive model, plus lotus rinderpest capsules, also immediately began to take.
在1月24日出现明显症状之前，刘文说，他曾经去过三个地方，包括武汉中轻大楼、武汉天地皇家芭蕾舞以及湖北剧院，往返都是自驾车或网约车，而这些都是有可能的传播路径。
Before the symptoms became apparent on January 24, Liu said he had been to three places, including Wuhan Zhonglight Building, Wuhan Tiandi Royal Ballet and Hubei Theatre, all of which were self-driving or internet-bound vehicles, which were possible transmission routes.
到了24日晚，刘文的体温继续升高，达到38.5度，为防失控，他又服用了美林，半小时后体温开始下降。
On the night of the 24th, Liu's temperature continued to rise to 38.5 degrees. To prevent him from losing control, he took Merrill Lynch and his temperature began to drop in half an hour later.
25日早上醒来微烧，但咳嗽加重且有痰，刘文开始加服阿莫西林。
The morning of 25 wake up with a slight fever, but cough aggravated and sputum, Liu Wen began to take amoxicillin.
“这不是我乱吃药，我也是在网上向武汉同济医院医生问诊后作出在家吃药隔离的决定。
"This is not I take medicine randomly, I am also in Wuhan Tongji Hospital doctor after consulting the decision to take medicine isolation at home.
”他将自己关进了家里的主卧室，进行自我隔离，自己和家人在家都戴着口罩和手套，家人会将做好的饮食放在他的门口。
He locked himself up in the main bedroom of his family, where he and his family wore masks and gloves and left their meals at his door.
此时的整个湖北省，截至1月24日24时已累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例729例。
By 2400 hours on January 24, a total of 729 new cases of coronavirus infection had been reported in Hubei Province.
累计追踪密切接触者5682人，已解除医学观察971人，尚在接受医学观察4711人。
A total of 5,682 close contacts have been followed up, 971 medical observations have been lifted and 4,711 are still under medical observation.
用于防控的物资包括医用防护服、N95口罩、医用口罩、防护面罩、隔离衣、消毒液等告急，在全国，多个省市启动一级响应抗击疫情。
The materials used for prevention and control include medical protective clothing, N95 mask, medical mask, protective mask, protective clothing, disinfectant, etc., and launched a first-level response to the epidemic in many provinces and municipalities throughout the country.
汹涌的外部消息，和家庭突然的变故，给每一位家庭成员都带来了巨大的影响，“我的妻子，她的精神压力最大，我隔离后，家庭所有的事情都压在了她的肩膀上，以往，我把她和女儿保护得太好了，当我出问题的时候，她一时间无法承受这个压力。
Extremely turbulent external news, and sudden changes in the family, have had a tremendous impact on every member of the family. "My wife, she is the most stressed. After I was isolated, everything in the family was on her shoulders.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
妻子的情绪进一步传导到丈母娘，“丈母娘到处打电话搅动了一圈人，实际上也没有什么作用，除了制造紧张情绪。
The wife's emotions are transmitted further to the mother-in-law, who calls around agitating a circle of people and actually does nothing but create tension.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
而在这期间，刘文依旧在间歇性高烧中，他的抵抗力在和病毒做顽强的战斗，但他同时也知道，自己必须要去医院了，即便，各路消息都在提醒他，如今的医院，是最危险的地方。
During this time, Liu Wen is still in intermittent fever, his resistance in the battle against the virus, but he also knew that he had to go to the hospital, even if the various sources remind him that today's hospital is the most dangerous place.
就医的路上“26日晚上7点左右，我开始按照政府发布的流程就医，最终打通了区里公布的咨询电话，告知了定点医院汉口医院的一位主任的电话。
"On my way to the hospital at around 7: 00 pm on the 26th, I began to follow the procedures issued by the government to seek medical treatment.
经过咨询得知，我可以自己去医院看发热门诊，考虑到发热两天以上，且咳，医生建议我尽快去。
After consultation, I can go to the hospital to see a fever clinic, considering fever for more than two days, and cough, the doctor advised me to go as soon as possible.
看看濒临崩溃的老婆，再看看丈母娘在家族群里的发言，只能去医院了。
Look at the crumbling wife, and then look at the mother-in-law in the family group, can only go to the hospital.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
但新的问题是，怎么去？公共交通停了，出租车没有了，如果自己开车，定会污染车辆，考虑再三，刘文决定步行过去，距离大约3.5公里。
But the new question is, how to get there? Public transportation has stopped, taxis are gone, and if you drive your own car, you will pollute the vehicle.
戴上口罩、眼镜，头戴一次性的浴帽，脚上、鞋子外面均套上鞋套，戴好医用手套，刘文于26日晚上8点40左右，全副武装出门了。
Wearing masks, glasses, disposable bathrobe, feet, shoes are all covered with shoe cover, wearing medical gloves, Liu Wenwen 26 at around 8: 40 p.m., heavily armed out.
路面上只有零星几个人，除了救护车和少量私家车以后，整个城市一片寂静。
There were only a few people on the road, and the city was quiet except for ambulances and a few private cars.
他感慨，“真的难以想象，这就是我生活了40多年的城市，一个1000多万人的大都市。
"It's hard to imagine," he says. "This is the city I've lived in for more than 40 years, a metropolis of more than 10 million people.
”寒风中跋涉了接近一个小时，刘文到了汉口医院，依照程序，先挂号，再测血氧饱和度，结果显示血氧饱和度合格。
After walking for nearly an hour in the cold wind, Liu Wen went to Hankou Hospital and, in accordance with the procedure, registered first and then measured blood oxygen saturation, the results showed that the blood oxygen saturation was satisfactory.
在医院他看到了形形色色的就诊者，“我后面一位30多岁的女士，口罩都戴歪了，走路也不太行，状态很不好，血氧饱和度只有81%，护士赶紧叫人扶进抢救室，后面又来了一位孕妇，血氧饱和度88%，明显不妙，也进了抢救室。
At the hospital, he saw a wide variety of clients. "Behind me, a woman in her 30s, wearing a crooked mask, walking poorly, suffering from a hypoxic saturation of 81%, rushed to the emergency room, followed by a pregnant woman with a blood oxygen saturation of 88%, apparently unwell, who also went to the emergency room.
”经过前些天人山人海的混乱以及后续政府的疏导，此时的医院，就医的人并不多。
After the chaos of the previous few days and the follow-up to the government's guidance, hospitals at this time, medical treatment is not many.
尽管如此，刘文还是等待了大约2小时，抽了血，照了CT。
Despite this, Liu Wen waited for about 2 hours, drew blood and took a CT.
医生看到刘文的CT报告后，认为是疑似病例，但目前还不能检测是否为新冠肺炎。
The doctor saw Liu Wen's CT report, believed to be a suspected case, but so far has not been able to detect whether the new crown pneumonia.
医生认为，刘文的症状不严重，可以自行回家吃药，进行隔离。
The doctor thinks, the symptom of Liu Wen is not serious, can take medicine oneself home, undertake isolation.
回到家后，刘文继续隔离、吃药，并持续监测体温。
Back home, Liu Wen continued to isolate, take medicine, and continuously monitor the body temperature.
汉口医院的医生开了一个治疗方案：口服阿莫西林+莲花清瘟+奥司他韦，但刘文后来又通过朋友关系联系上了协和医院的一位朋友，拿到了另外一个针对自己的药方：阿比多尔+莫西沙星+莲花清瘟或金叶败毒。
Doctors at Hankou Hospital prescribed a cure: oral amoxicillin + lotus rinse rinderpest + oseltamivir, but Liu Wen later contacted a friend of Concorde Hospital through a friend and got another prescription for himself: Abidor + moxifloxacin + lotus rinderpest or gold leaf sepsis.
刘文转而服用后者。
Liu took the latter instead.
他感觉，换了药方之后，自己的状态有所恢复。
He felt that, with a change of medicine, his condition was restored.
现在，刘文每天就独自在主卧室里“闭关”，偶尔会与家人有一些交谈，但中间隔着一扇紧闭的房门。
Now, Liu Wen is alone in the main bedroom "closed" every day, occasionally with family a few conversations, but there is a closed door between.
不过他的心态挺好，“我没事，状态不错。
But he's in a good frame of mind. "I'm fine. I'm in good shape.
”面对省外朋友的问候，刘文会这样回答。
"Liu Wen would reply to a greeting from a friend outside the province.
“可以多睡觉，看书、玩手机、聊天、打电话，都是很好的。
"It's good to sleep more, read a book, play a cell phone, talk and talk on the phone.
”27日下午6点，他还吃了一顿老婆煮的饺子，直叹“真是觉得太美味了。
"On the 27th, at 6 p.m., he also ate dumplings cooked by his wife and exclaimed," It's so delicious.
”但这天晚上他还是伤感了。
But that night he was sad.
“晚上8点，小区里好多人开始唱国歌，原来是本地群发了号召大家唱国歌的消息，之后是铺天盖地的‘武汉加油’，足足响了10分钟。
"At 8 pm, a lot of people in the community began to sing the national anthem, the original local group issued a call to everyone to sing the national anthem, then a flood of 'Wuhan refueling', full of sound for 10 minutes.
说实话，在家里面听着外面的歌声，我当时哭得稀里哗啦的，眼泪根本就止不住。
To tell the truth, at home listening to the songs outside, I cried at that time, tears simply can not stop.
”刘文说，他目前还在持续恢复中，家人的症状还有待观察，一切都会好起来的。
Liu said he is still recovering and that it remains to be seen how his family will fare and everything will be fine.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天。
Self-Help for a Suspected Crown Patient: Take the medicine in exchange for a prescription and chat through the door.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; A suspected new crown patient's self-help: Take the medicine instead, and chat with & quot; through the door.
var msg_desc = "他将自己隔离在家里的主卧室里，自己和家人都戴着口罩和手套，偶尔他们会聊天，中间隔着紧闭的房门。
var msg _ desc = & quot; He kept himself and his family in the main bedroom at home, wearing masks and gloves, and occasionally chatting with closed doors.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
