中国经济活动预计4月逐步恢复正常，疫情之后如何刺激各行业。
Chinese economic activity is expected to gradually return to normal in April and how to stimulate industries after the outbreak.
刘陈杰。
Liu Chen Jie.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情是危机，也是机遇，暂时的苦难使得我们进一步审视目前国家治理体系的细节，也给予我们一个历史性的机遇做出符合未来一段时间的合理政策安排的时间和空间2020年2月27日，武汉街头唯有穿梭的外卖员，让这个城市有了一丝鲜活。
The outbreak is both a crisis and an opportunity, and temporary suffering has given us a historic opportunity to take a closer look at the details of the current system of national governance and give us a historic opportunity to make reasonable policy arrangements in time and space for some time to come.
摄影/《财经》记者王小文|刘陈杰近一段时期以来，新冠肺炎疫情对中国经济、社会稳定造成了一定程度的影响。
Photo / Caijing journalist Wang Xiaowen & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; Liu Chen Jie & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
参照2003年非典时期的经验，在基准情景下，我们预计2020年4月中国各项经济活动可能逐步恢复正常。
Based on the 2003 SARS experience, under the baseline scenario, we expect a gradual return to normal economic activity in China in April 2020.
2020年是中国全面实现小康目标的收官之年，为了实现这一目标，新冠肺炎疫情后经济刺激的重点应该落笔在哪些领域呢？更为具体的是，结合短期和中长期的目标，我们站在现在的历史时点，应该有一个怎样的经济扶持图景？经济刺激总规模测算2020年新冠肺炎疫情对GDP增速的冲击预测。
In order to achieve this goal, where should the focus of economic stimulus be focused? More specifically, what kind of economic support should we have at this point in history, given the short-, medium- and long-term goals? The total stimulus measures the projected impact of the 2020 outbreak on GDP growth.
本次新冠肺炎疫情从2019年12月开始从局部到周围蔓延，其传播规模和范围大于2003年的非典疫情，防控力度和政策重视程度也大于非典期间。
Since December 2019, the outbreak has spread from the local to the surrounding areas. Its spread is greater than that of the 2003 SARS epidemic, and the degree of control and policy attention is greater than during the SARS period.
根据2003年的经验对比，我们粗浅地对新冠肺炎疫情做三个情景分析：乐观、基准、悲观情景。
Based on the comparison of experiences in 2003, we did three superficial scenarios: optimism, benchmarks, and pessimism.
在乐观情景下，我们假设本次新冠肺炎疫情能在2020年2月中下旬出现明显好转（对比2003年的5月底），在2020年全国“两会”前有一个较好局面。
In the optimistic scenario, we assume that the new crown pneumonia outbreak will improve markedly by mid-February 2020 (compared with the end of May 2003), with a better situation before the 2020 NPC and CPPCC.
在基准情景下，我们假设本次新冠肺炎疫情能在2020年2月中下旬出现好转，但传播范围的广度和深度依然严峻，需要气温的提升、医护人员的努力和全国范围内隔离措施的持续执行才能最终战胜疫情，我们预计可能持续两个月左右，即到3月底能出现明显好转。
In the baseline scenario, we assume that the new crown pneumonia outbreak will improve by mid-to-late February 2020, but the scale and depth of transmission will remain severe, requiring an increase in temperature, efforts by health-care workers, and continued nationwide isolation to finally overcome the epidemic, which we expect to continue for about two months, that is, by the end of March.
在悲观情景下，我们假设新冠肺炎疫情的传播范围的广度和深度在2月底非常严峻，春节后的人员流动和企事业复工后出现新的情况，疫情出现反复。
In a pessimistic scenario, we assume that the extent and depth of the spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic will be severe at the end of February, with new conditions emerging after the Spring Festival movement and the resumption of business operations, with recurring outbreaks.
在这种情况下，我们预计可能持续三个月左右，即到4月底才能出现明显好转。
Under these circumstances, we expect a significant improvement to occur only at the end of April, possibly lasting about three months.
疫情对GDP增速的影响显著，预计中国2020年一季度GDP增速在0%-2%。
The epidemic has had a significant impact on GDP growth, which is expected to reach 0% -2% in the first quarter of 2020.
按照目前的形势发展，我们采取基准情景假设分析，即到2020年4月，中国经济活动逐渐恢复到正常水平。
In the light of current developments, we have adopted the baseline scenario analysis, that is, by April 2020, economic activity in China will gradually return to normal levels.
我们运用GDP核算的生产法分产业的细分法来粗略地测算2020年一季度的GDP增速。
We used the GDP accounting subdivision method to roughly measure GDP growth in the first quarter of 2020.
（1）第二产业主要是制造业，按照我们调研的制造业上市公司的春节后复工程度来看，目前复工率普遍在50%-60%左右，一些医疗等紧缺行业的复工更高一些。
(1) The secondary industry is mainly manufacturing. According to the degree of resumption of work after the Spring Festival of the manufacturing listed companies we have studied, the return to work rate is generally around 50% -60%, with some industries in short supply, such as medical care, returning to work at a higher rate.
假设到2020年4月，制造业企业复工率普遍达到100%，且在这一过程中，复工率基本呈现匀速变化（主要为了模拟测算方便）。
Assuming a general 100 per cent return to work in manufacturing enterprises by April 2020, the rate of return to work changes almost uniformly (mainly for ease of calculation) in the process.
那么在2020年一季度，制造业的平均复工水平将为80%－85%。
Then, in the first quarter of 2020, the average level of return to work in manufacturing will be 80-85 per cent.
（2）第三产业主要为服务业，新冠肺炎疫情对服务业的压力更大一些，除了部分线上服务业受益，大部分人力资本密集的服务业受到疫情的冲击较大。
(2) The tertiary sector is dominated by the services sector, with the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic exerting greater pressure on the services sector, with the exception of some online services, where most human capital-intensive services are more affected by the outbreak.
按照我们调研的服务业上市公司的春节后复工程度来看，目前复工率普遍在40%-50%左右，其中线上和5G应用服务业的产能利用率较高，但大部分服务业压力很大。
According to the degree of resumption of work after the Spring Festival of the listed service companies we have investigated, the return to work rate is generally around 40% -50%, with high capacity utilization in online and 5G application services, but high pressure in most service industries.
假设到2020年4月，服务业企业复工率普遍达到100%，且在这一过程中，复工率基本呈现匀速变化（主要为了模拟测算方便）。
Assuming a general 100 per cent return to work in service enterprises by April 2020, the rate of return to work will basically change at a uniform rate (mainly for the convenience of simulation).
那么在2020年一季度，服务业的平均复工水平将为70%-75%。
In the first quarter of 2020, the average return to work in the service sector will be 70-75 per cent.
我们假设第一产业受到疫情的影响略有限，这里也主要是囿于数据的确实，但第一产业占GDP的比重较小，对整体的GDP的增速影响有限。
Assuming that the primary sector is only marginally affected by the epidemic, and that this is largely due to data, the primary sector accounts for a smaller share of GDP, with limited impact on overall GDP growth.
如果在整个2020年一季度，我们的生产水平较2019年同期提升6%左右，疫情对经济的影响主要是产能而不是产能的效率，产能的效率我们按照线性外推假设来实现。
If, throughout the first quarter of 2020, our production level rises by about 6% over the same period in 2019, the impact of the epidemic on the economy will be more on productivity than on productivity, which we will achieve on the basis of linear extrapolation assumptions.
按照分产业的复工情况和生产效率的假设，以及分产业的比重来测算新冠肺炎疫情对2020年一季度经济增长的影响，根据我们的假设，在基准情景下，即2020年4月以后，中国经济活动可能基本恢复正常，那么疫情对2020年一季度GDP的影响较为显著。
The impact of the outbreak on economic growth in the first quarter of 2020 is estimated on the basis of assumptions about the resumption of work and productivity in the subsectors, as well as the proportion of subsectors. According to our assumptions, economic activity in China is likely to return largely to normal after April 2020 under the baseline scenario, then the impact of the epidemic on GDP in the first quarter of 2020 is more pronounced.
按照我们的测算，在基准情景下，2020年一季度中国GDP增速大约为0%－2%。
According to our calculations, China's GDP growth in the first quarter of 2020 under the baseline scenario would be about 0% -2%.
疫情后政府经济刺激规模大约为1万亿－2万亿元。
The government's stimulus after the epidemic was about $1 trillion to $2 trillion.
我们通过一个较为粗略的经验模型来测算新冠肺炎疫情对经济的影响，在基准情景下，2020年一季度中国GDP增速大约为0%－2%。
Using a rough empirical model to measure the economic impact of the outbreak, China's GDP growth in the first quarter of 2020 in the baseline scenario would be about 0% to 2%.
如果要实现2020年全面建成小康社会的最低增速目标来看，2020年二季度、三季度和四季度所需要额外的经济增长压力大约为每个季度新增1个百分点的GDP。
The additional economic growth pressure required in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020 is about 1 percentage point of GDP per quarter if the minimum growth target of achieving a well-off society by 2020 is to be achieved.
按照目前政府投资的乘数来看，我们的实证检验近五年的政府投资乘数大约为2.8－3，比十年前政府投资乘数（4－5之间）下降了很多。
Based on the current multiplier for government investment, our empirical evidence shows that the government investment multiplier for the last five years is about 2.8-3, which is much lower than the government investment multiplier (4-5) a decade ago.
按照这个比例，由此倒推的疫后政府经济刺激规模大约为1万亿－2万亿元之间。
At this rate, the size of the post-epidemic stimulus would be in the range of $1 trillion to $2 trillion.
因此，在2020年二、三、四季度，政府在疫后经济刺激的过程中至少大概需要投入1万亿－2万亿元的规模，才能保证全面建成小康社会任务的基本完成。
Therefore, in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020, the government will need to invest at least 1 trillion-2 trillion yuan in post-epidemic economic stimulus to ensure the basic completion of the task of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects.
经济刺激主要投向哪些行业？在2020年经济变局下，我们将面临实体经济投资回报率低迷、抑制房地产投机属性、复杂国际环境等深刻的环境变化。
Given the economic shifts of 2020, we will face profound environmental changes, such as low rates of return on investment in the real economy, suppression of real estate speculation, and a complex international environment.
经历了2018年强力去杠杆、控风险的尝试之后，我们判断政策制定者将会通过中长期科技创新提高技术进步、控制短期金融泡沫、释放保持就业稳定的适度流动性的政策组合来确保在稳定的时间内，实现对变局的应对。
After trying to deleverage forcefully and manage risk in 2018, we conclude that policymakers will ensure a stable time frame for responding to the changes, through a combination of medium- and long-term technological innovation that increases technological progress, controls short-term financial bubbles, and unleashes the right mix of liquidity to keep jobs stable.
因此，我们判断2020年在流动性并不实质性收紧、财政政策更为积极的背景下，疫情后经济刺激的方向将是结构性的，而且疫情的影响将是一时的、短暂的，非决定性的。
So, in 2020, we judge that, in the absence of substantial liquidity tightening and more aggressive fiscal policy, the direction of the post-epidemic stimulus will be structural, and the impact of the epidemic will be temporary, temporary, and inconclusive.
那么，新冠肺炎疫情后政府经济刺激主要投向哪些行业？如何避免资金“脱实向虚”？5G产业链是未来几年较为确定的行业性政策刺激方向，网络的建设将推动运营商资本开支提升，带来通信板块行业性投资机会。
So, after the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, the government's economic stimulus mainly to what industries? How to avoid the "false capital to virtual"? 5G industrial chain is the more certain industry policy stimulus direction in the next few years, the construction of the network will promote operators capital expenditure, leading to communications plate industry investment opportunities.
5G应用场景、国产软件的自主可控等领域在未来一段时间内将成为中国科技追赶的主力战场之一。
The application scene of 5G and the autonomous control of home-made software will become one of the main battlefield of Chinese science and technology catch-up in the future.
除了5G手机换机，无线耳机为代表的智能配件，打开了物联网应用的浪潮，而5G网络的成熟，将正式开启从人周边智能穿戴生态，到智能家居、智能汽车、智慧交通、智慧城市、工控的万物互联的浪潮。
In addition to the 5G handset switch, wireless headphones as the representative of the smart accessories, opened up the Internet of Things application wave, and 5G network maturing, will officially open up from people around the intelligent wearing ecology, to smart homes, smart cars, intelligent transportation, intelligent cities, industrial control of all things connected waves.
5G的高速带宽、广域网和低延时的特点，将支持终端智能生态和云的实时通信和数据交换，给工业领域和消费者带来体验和应用上质的飞越。
The features of 5 gigabytes of high-speed bandwidth, wide-area networks and low-latency will support intelligent end-of-pipe ecology and real-time communication and data exchange of clouds, leading to qualitative overflights of experience and applications for industry and consumers.
而万物互联的启动，开启了相应物联网微型模组、高精度结构件等领域的投资机会。
And the activation of the interconnection of all things, opened the corresponding Internet of Things micro-module, high-precision structural parts and other areas of investment opportunities.
在经济变局之下，集成电路领域将成为重点发展的部分。
Under the economic change, the integrated circuit field will become a key part of the development.
中国在全球5G建设的过程中将更为积极，即使没有新冠肺炎疫情，中国加大5G基础设施和应用设施的投入将是坚决和长期的。
China will be more active in the global 5G construction process, and even in the absence of a new outbreak of pneumonia, China's investment in 5G infrastructure and applications will be firm and long-term.
按照我们的测算，中国在5G基础设施和应用方面的投资在未来2年－3年将累计超过万亿。
We estimate that China's investment in 5G infrastructure and applications will accumulate to more than $trillion over the next two to three years.
因此，疫后政府经济刺激的重点行业将首先集中在5G等基础设施建设和相关应用。
Therefore, the government economic stimulus after the key industries will focus on 5G and other infrastructure and related applications.
疫情后经济刺激的另一个重点在于中国医疗体制和医疗体系建设。
Another focus of post-epidemic economic stimulus has been on China's health-care system and health-care system.
生物医药行业与经济周期的相关性不强，符合我国居民老龄化和消费升级趋势，具有结构性机会。
The correlation between biomedical industry and economic cycle is not strong. It is consistent with the trend of population aging and consumption upgrading, and has structural opportunities.
随着中国2015年以来药政审评审批新政逐步推进，审评积压的状况显著改善，在很大程度上减轻了初创型研发企业的投入要求，企业申报创新药数量和品种获批数量较此前有了显著提升，医保对创新药的承接力度也在逐步加大。
As the New Deal for the Review and Approval of Pharmaceutical Administration has been gradually promoted in China since 2015, the backlog of reviews has significantly improved, input requirements for start-up R & D enterprises have been alleviated to a large extent.
医药行业是非周期行业，在经济减速期，医药板块的稳健增长就显得弥足珍贵。
Pharmaceutical industry is a non-cyclical industry, in the economic slowdown period, the steady growth of the pharmaceutical sector is very valuable.
具体而言，在儿童青少年近视防控方面，已经上升为国家战略；从龙头企业的创新药与创新器械方面，新品带来超预期因素；从消费属性行业：生长激素等需求稳定，符合消费升级趋势；创新药临床试验领域和血液制品领域也具有中长期的结构性机会。
In particular, the prevention and control of myopia among children and adolescents has been promoted as a national strategy; new products have led to surpassing expectations in terms of innovative medicines and innovative devices in leading enterprises; demand stabilization in consumer-dependent industries, such as growth hormones, is in line with consumption escalation trends; and there are medium- and long-term structural opportunities in the field of innovative drug clinical trials and blood products.
新冠肺炎疫情对于中国的一大经验教训就是全国医疗应急体系和战略医疗物资储备体系的建设，这一方面的基础设施也将是疫后政府经济刺激的重点。
A major lesson for China from the outbreak is the establishment of a national health emergency system and a strategic medical supplies reserve system, which will be the focus of the government's economic stimulus after the epidemic.
传统房地产行业和基建行业也将是疫后政策刺激的一个重要方面。
The traditional real estate and infrastructure industries will also be an important part of the post-epidemic policy stimulus.
部分传统周期性行业细分市场的龙头具有结构性机会。
Some traditional cyclical industry segments market leader has structural opportunities.
部分细分行业龙头企业的效应，即龙头企业在行业内不断地提升实力，通过兼并重组和各种方式，不断地侵占市场份额，逐渐形成了行业内的更为巩固的龙头地位和护城河。
Some subdivide the effect of the leading industry enterprises, that is, the leading enterprises in the industry to continuously enhance their strength, through merger and restructuring and various ways, constantly encroaching on market share, gradually forming a stronger leading position and moat in the industry.
在传统的周期性行业、甚至部分新兴行业也出现了这一现象，即企业分层现象。
In the traditional cyclical industry, even some emerging industries have also seen this phenomenon, that is, the phenomenon of enterprise stratification.
部分行业细分市场的龙头，在整体经济增长乏力的背景下具有结构性机会。
Some industry segments market leader, in the overall economic growth is weak background has structural opportunities.
房地产行业在中长期看，投资前景略有下降，但是在短期经济下行压力加大的情况下，疫后经济刺激的背景下，房地产行业的政策压力和融资压力将得到阶段性的缓解。
In the medium and long term, the investment prospects of the real estate industry will decline slightly, but under the background of the economic stimulus after the epidemic, the policy pressure and financing pressure of the real estate industry will be alleviated in stages.
传统基建行业主要集中在人口净流入地区的公共品的提升质量和部分地区长期缺乏有力基建配套的区域。
The traditional infrastructure industry is mainly focused on the upgrading quality of public goods in the area of net population inflow and the long-term lack of a strong infrastructure in some areas.
与过去十年不同，传统房地产行业和基建行业的刺激将是短期的。
Unlike in the past decade, stimulus in the traditional real estate and infrastructure sectors will be short-term.
如何避免资金“脱实向虚”？我们认为2014年是中国经济和金融市场发展过程中有着重要意义的一年。
How to avoid the "false to false" capital? We believe that 2014 is an important year in the development of China's economy and financial market.
从资本市场与实体经济的关系而言，我们发现上证指数与实体经济基本面之间的关系，在2014年以前为正相关（+57%），在2014年以后为正相关减弱，有时甚至是负相关。
In terms of the relationship between capital markets and the real economy, we found that the relationship between the Shanghai index and real economic fundamentals was positive until 2014 (+ 57 per cent) and positive or even negative after 2014.
从热钱流动（世界银行残差法，剔除虚假贸易部分）和人民币汇率预期的角度来看，2014年以前热钱更多地表现为流入中国，2014年以后表现为持续流出中国。
From the point of view of hot money flows (the World Bank's residual approach, which excludes the spurious trade component) and the renminbi's exchange-rate expectations, hot money flowed more into China before 2014, with continued outflows from China after 2014.
从货币政策的有效性来看，我们发现2014年以后，单位货币增量拉动GDP的效力在快速下降，也就是说刺激经济所需要的货币宽松程度在扩大。
In terms of the effectiveness of monetary policy, we find that the effectiveness of unit-currency increments in GDP has been declining rapidly since 2014, meaning that the monetary easing needed to stimulate the economy has expanded.
种种微观形态的表现综合起来，我们发现中国实体经济投资回报率在2008年以来持续下降，且在2014年附近降低至金融市场无风险融资成本以下，这就意味着过度的流动性不愿意进入实体经济，更愿意在各类资产之间空转，形成局部泡沫，威胁经济和金融稳定。
Taken together, we find that the return on investment in China's real economy has been declining since 2008, and has fallen below the risk-free financing costs of financial markets near 2014, implying excessive liquidity reluctance to enter the real economy, preferring to move between asset classes, creating local bubbles that threaten economic and financial stability.
由于实体经济投资回报率低于借贷成本，如果没有新一轮的供给侧改革，实体经济的杠杆率水平将越来越高，金融市场的泡沫化将进一步加剧。
Without a new round of supply-side reforms, the real economy will become increasingly leveraged and the bubble in financial markets will worsen, owing to the fact that returns on real economic investment are lower than borrowing costs.
疫后政策刺激如何最大可能避免资金“脱实向虚”，我们主要从“标”和“本”两个层面来给出一些粗略的建议：从治标的角度看，第一，从财政政策角度看：（1）提高预算内财政赤字率和适度提升可监控的地方政府专项债规模，给地方政府经济行为注入适度的活力；（2）适度增发一定规模的特别国债，给予特定扶持行业中长期的低息资金支持；（3）适度通过发债减税降费的方式，给予保障就业的中小企业一定程度上的支持。
First, from the perspective of the palliative, first, from the perspective of fiscal policy, first, from the perspective of fiscal policy: (1) increase the budget deficit rate and moderately increase the size of local government special debts, and provide medium-term low-interest financial support to local governments.
第二，从货币政策的角度来看：（1） 短期内货币政策宽松的必要性在增大。
Second, from the perspective of monetary policy: (1) the need for monetary easing has increased in the short term.
为了给中长期科技进步和社会发展创造良好的环境和稳定的形势，2020年中国货币政策的主基调可能还将是稳健，保持适度的宽松；（2）央行通过直接向实体经济注入流动性的方式来对实体经济进行结构性的扶持。
To create a favorable environment and a stable environment for medium- and long-term scientific and technological progress and social development, the main tenor of China's monetary policy in 2020 is likely to remain stable and moderate; (2) Central banks will provide structural support to the real economy by injecting liquidity directly into the economy.
本次疫情期间央行给予出现短期困难的实体经济企业以直接的资金补充，起到了较好的效果，也保障了短期经济，特别是关键领域企业的正常运转。
During the current epidemic, the central bank provided direct capital replenishment to real economic enterprises experiencing short-term difficulties, which had good results and ensured the normal operation of enterprises in the short-term economy, especially in key areas.
央行基础货币投放机制的改善应该具有中国特色，并不一定要按照经济学教科书的窠臼限制，应该审时度势，具有一定的前瞻性和创新。
The improvement of the basic monetary delivery mechanism of the central bank should have Chinese characteristics, not necessarily according to the pattern of economics textbooks, should review the situation, with a certain forward-looking and innovative.
从中长期治本角度看，只有实体经济投资回报率上升，才是避免资金“脱实向虚”的根本道路。
From the perspective of medium- and long-term treatment, only the real economic return on investment rise, is to avoid the "false to virtual" of the basic road.
第一，发挥供给侧结构性改革的作用，要充分发挥“强制性制度变迁”的后发优势，积极调动“诱致性制度变迁”的主观能动性。
First, we should give full play to the role of supply-side structural reform, give full play to the backward advantages of "compulsory institutional change" and actively mobilize the subjective initiative of "induced institutional change."
第二，要调动广大地方的积极性，改变以往地方追求经济增长的“锦标赛”模式，形成促进经济长期健康发展，经济结构趋于高质量的更高追求。
Second, it is necessary to mobilize local enthusiasm and change the old pattern of "championships" in pursuit of economic growth, so as to form a higher aspiration for long-term healthy economic development and high-quality economic structures.
第三，加强企业和政府机构的预算硬约束，建立现代化经济体系，改善国家治理体系，形成崇尚科技创新，科技创新有激励相容，落后重复受到市场压力的经济发展环境。
Third, it is necessary to strengthen the budgetary constraints of enterprises and government agencies, establish a modern economic system, improve the system of governance, and form an economic development environment that advocates scientific and technological innovation, encourages compatibility, and lags behind and is subject to market pressures.
综上所述，2020年将是经济变局更为深刻的一年，新冠肺炎疫情短期内打乱了我们经济增长和金融市场发展的轨迹，但都是暂时的困难。
Taken together, 2020 will be a year of even deeper economic change, with the New Crown Pneumonia disrupting our economic growth and financial markets in a short period of time, but only temporarily.
本文主要围绕疫后经济刺激的几个重要方面：（1）经济刺激的总规模应为多少；（2）如何处理宽松政策与资金“脱实向虚”之间的矛盾;（3）区别于过去的传统基建，哪些行业应该成为经济刺激的重点；（4）新型财政背景下，减税降费的空间和经济刺激资金的来源。
This paper focuses on several important aspects of post-epidemic economic stimulus: (1) the size of the stimulus package; (2) how to deal with the contradiction between lax policies and "false to false" capital; (3) which industries should be the focus of economic stimulus as opposed to the traditional infrastructure of the past; and (4) the space for tax cuts and sources of economic stimulus funds in the new fiscal context.
疫情的危机，是危险也是机遇，暂时的苦难使得我们进一步审视目前国家治理体系的细节，也给予我们一个历史性的机遇做出符合未来一段时间的合理政策安排的时间和空间。
The crisis of the epidemic is both a danger and an opportunity, and temporary suffering has led us to take a closer look at the details of the current system of national governance and to give us a historic opportunity to make the right policy arrangements in time to come.
凡事预则立，不预则废。
All things come before they come.
本文根据新冠肺炎疫情发展的趋势，结合中国经济短期和中长期的目标、问题和结构性特点，分别测算疫情后经济刺激的重点，做一个初步的分析。
According to the trend of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, this paper makes a preliminary analysis based on the short-, medium- and long-term goals, problems and structural characteristics of China's economy, and measures the key points of economic stimulus after the outbreak.
本文探讨了从中长期来看，如何建立新一轮改革的激励相容机制，如何协调“强制性制度变迁”和“诱致性制度变迁”之间的关系，如何保障改革从经济发展自身趋势上符合最广大人民的利益，如何规范地方政府改革过程中的行为和调动其积极性，简要阐述了现阶段优化国家治理体系的动力机制可能遇到的关键问题。
This paper discusses how to establish a new round of incentive and compatibility mechanism, how to coordinate the relationship between "mandatory institutional change" and "induced institutional change," how to ensure that the reform conforms to the interests of the vast majority of the people in terms of its own trend of economic development, how to standardize the behavior and mobilize the enthusiasm of local governments.
经济变局之下，我们认为中国未来的科技创新、医疗健康和消费等结构性机会不会变化，在激烈的产业升级和消费升级的大背景下，历史的趋势无法阻挡，中国经济和社会不断前进的方向也将更为坚定。
As the economy evolves, we believe that China's future structural opportunities for science, technology, innovation, health care, and consumption will remain unchanged. Against the backdrop of intense industrial upgrading and rising consumption, the historical trend will not be halted, and the direction of China's economic and social progress will be stronger.
（作者为望正资本全球宏观对冲基金董事长、中国新供给五十人论坛成员；编辑：苏琦）（本文首刊于2020年3月2日出版的《财经》杂志）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is chairman of Wangzheng Capital Global Macro Hedge Fund and a member of China's 50-member New Supply Forum; Editor: Suqi. (This article was first published in Caijing on March 2, 2020).
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国经济活动预计4月逐步恢复正常，疫情之后如何刺激各行业。
Chinese economic activity is expected to gradually return to normal in April and how to stimulate industries after the outbreak.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "中国经济活动预计4月逐步恢复正常，疫情之后如何刺激各行业";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; after the outbreak.
var msg_desc = "疫情是危机，也是机遇，暂时的苦难使得我们进一步审视目前国家治理体系的细节，也给予我们一个历史性的机遇做出符合";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The outbreak was a crisis and an opportunity, and temporary suffering gave us a further look at the details of the current system of governance and a historic opportunity to do what & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
