《财经》调研：36%企业未复工，疫情倒逼企业数字化升级。
Caijing survey: 36% of enterprises did not resume work, the epidemic situation forced enterprises to upgrade digital.
周源。
Zhou Yuan.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
参与《财经》调研的多位企业人士表示，希望政府的金融扶持能更好地惠及小微企业文 | 《财经》记者 周源编辑 | 谢丽容进入2020年3月以来，中国的新冠肺炎疫情蔓延已得到了有力控制，新增确诊和新增疑似病例呈逐日大幅下降趋势，多个省市已连续多日本地新增确诊为0或个位数，抗疫已经取得阶段性重大进展。
A number of business people polled by Caijing said they hoped the government's financial support would better benefit small and micro-enterprises. Since March 2020, the spread of China's new crown pneumonia epidemic has been under strong control, with new cases and new suspects falling significantly from day to day.
但近期海外疫情呈全面暴发趋势，有的国家疫情严重程度甚至超过之前的中国，而各国采取的抗疫措施也不尽相同。
However, there has been an all-out trend of overseas outbreaks in recent years, some of which are more serious than China's, and countries have taken different measures to combat the disease.
对中国而言，如何继续打好国内防疫战并严防境外疫情倒灌输入，同时实事求是地推动有条件的地区企业复工复产，成为中国当前经济发展的头等大事。
For China, how to continue to do a good job in domestic epidemic prevention and strictly prevent the importation of back-filling epidemic diseases abroad, while realistically promoting the resumption of work by regional enterprises under certain conditions, has become the top priority of China's current economic development.
为了解中国境内企业现阶段复工复产的真实状况，以及它们的担忧和关切，《财经》杂志近期推出的在线问卷调查《疫情给您的企业带来哪些影响》，在7天时间里共收到648份有效问卷，覆盖全国60余个城市的数百家企业，它们给出的回应，对政商学界更准确把握中国企业抗疫现状，应当有参考价值。
In order to understand the real situation of enterprises returning to work in China at this stage and their worries and concerns, the latest online survey published by Caijing magazine has received 648 valid questionnaires in seven days, covering hundreds of enterprises in more than 60 cities in China.
参与此次《财经》问卷调查的企业中，71%为民营企业，其次是国有企业（占比17.4%）。
Of the enterprises surveyed, 71 percent were private enterprises, followed by state-owned enterprises (17.4 percent).
从行业分布来看，参与调查企业主要来自制造业（20.4%）;文化、体育和娱乐业（11.4%）；批发和零售业(10.8%)；信息传输、软件和信息技术服务业（9.6%）；建筑业（9.0%）；金融业（7.2%）；教育业（6.6%）；科学研究和技术服务业（5.4%）。
In terms of industry distribution, the enterprises surveyed were mainly from manufacturing (20.4 per cent); culture, sports and entertainment (11.4 per cent); wholesale and retail trade (10.8 per cent); information transmission, software and information technology services (9.6 per cent); construction (9.0 per cent); finance (7.2 per cent); education (6.6 per cent); and scientific research and technology services (5.4 per cent).
并且，46.7%的企业是To B型企业，即面向企业客户提供产品与服务，To C（面向个人用户）型企业仅27.5%，剩下25.8%的企业为To B与To C两种模式兼有。
Moreover, 46.7 per cent of enterprises are ToB enterprises, offering products and services to corporate customers, while only 27.5 per cent of To C (for individual users) enterprises and 25.8 per cent of enterprises for both To B and To C.
或许是因为受调对象里，仅5%的企业属于纯线上经营模式，高达 59%的属于纯线下经营，剩下36%的企业属于线上线下混合经营，因此，此次《财经》调查显示，企业复工复产情况可谓喜忧参半。
The Caijing survey shows that only 5 percent of the enterprises surveyed belong to the pure line business model, up to 59 percent are operated under pure line, and the remaining 36 percent are mixed offline, so the Caijing survey shows mixed results.
截至3月13日，35.9%的参与调查企业还没有复工，有13.8%的企业表示面临倒闭风险，41.9%的企业预计上半年的营收将因疫情同比减少50%以上。
As of March 13, 35.9 percent of the participating companies had not returned to work, 13.8 percent said they were at risk of collapse, and 41.9 percent expected their first-half revenues to fall by more than 50 percent year-on-year.
尽管企业普遍面临短期经营困难，但表示“不降薪也不裁员”的企业达到39.5%，“有降薪，基本不裁员”的企业达到21.6%，“降薪，并小幅裁员5%-20%”的达到18%，三类合计79.1%。
Although businesses generally face short-term operational difficulties, 39.5 per cent of companies said they would neither cut wages nor lay off workers, 21.6 per cent of businesses with "reduced salaries and little or no layoffs," 18 per cent of companies were paid less and 5 per cent-20 per cent of their work force was cut.
令人略感欣慰的是，经此一“疫”，数字化建设的重要性已经成为共识，疫情期间，39.9%的企业采用了在线办公工具维持业务运转，12.8%的企业加速将业务迁移到云平台。
It is somewhat reassuring to note that the epidemic has made digitization a priority, with 39.9 per cent of businesses using online office tools to maintain operations and 12.8 per cent accelerating the migration of operations to cloud platforms during the epidemic.
2月23日，中央统筹推进新冠肺炎疫情防控和经济社会发展工作部署会议，会议上表示，要用好中央预算内投资、专项债券资金和政策性金融，优化投向结构。
On February 23, the Central Government held a meeting on planning for the prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic and economic and social development.
一些传统行业受冲击较大，而智能制造、无人配送、在线消费、医疗健康等新兴产业展现出强大成长潜力。
Some traditional industries are hard hit, while new industries, such as intelligent manufacturing, undistributed, online consumption, and health care, show strong growth potential.
要以此为契机，改造提升传统产业，培育壮大新兴产业。
We should take this as an opportunity to transform and upgrade traditional industries and cultivate and strengthen new industries.
3月4日，中央政治局常务委员会会议进一步强调，要加大公共卫生服务、应急物资保障领域投入，加快5G网络、数据中心等新型基础设施建设进度，要注重调动民间投资积极性。
On March 4, the Standing Committee of the Central Politburo further stressed the need to increase input in the areas of public health services and emergency supplies, speed up the construction of new infrastructure such as 5G networks and data centres, and pay great attention to mobilizing the enthusiasm of private investment.
这将深刻影响企业未来经营的方向。
This will have a profound impact on the future direction of business.
《财经》调查显示， “增加现金储备”（25.1%）、“加大数字化规划和投资”（20.8%）、“调整供应链、分散风险”（20.4%）成为了企业灾后经营调整的三大重点。
According to the Caijing survey, "increasing cash reserves" (25.1 percent), "increasing digital planning and investment" (20.8 percent), and "adjusting the supply chain, spreading risks" (20.4 percent) have become the three major emphases of post-disaster business adjustments.
企业担心上半年经营情况《财经》此次调研的数据显示，参与此次《财经》调查的77.9%来自小微型企业（员工人数不足500），中型企业占比17.9%，员工超过5000以上大型企业占比为4.2%。
The Caijing survey showed that 77.9 percent of the respondents to the Caijing survey were from microenterprises (with fewer than 500 employees), 17.9 percent were medium-sized enterprises and 4.2 percent were large enterprises with more than 5,000 employees.
这与我国实体经济结构基本吻合。
This accords with the real economic structure of our country basically.
中小企业是数量最大企业群体，根据第四次全国经济普查的数据显示，截至2018年末，我国中小企业法人单位共有1807万家，占全部规模企业法人单位的99.8%，因此，中小企业的复工复产极为重要，中小企业稳则就业稳、经济稳。
According to data from the Fourth National Economic Census, by the end of 2018, there were 18.07 million small and medium-sized enterprises, accounting for 99.8 per cent of the total number of corporate entities.
截至3月13日，35.9%的参与调查企业还没有复工，部分复工，但人员到岗率不足50%的达到26.3%，完全复工的仅14.4%。
As at 13 March, 35.9 per cent of the participating enterprises had not returned to work and were partially reinstated, but only 26.3 per cent were on duty with less than 50 per cent and only 14.4 per cent were fully reinstated.
疫情期间，13.6%的企业担心年度销售计划难以落实，12.9%的企业称订单少于往年同期，有14%的企业担忧面临倒闭风险，42%的企业预计上半年的营收将因疫情同比减少50%以上。
During the epidemic, 13.6 per cent of businesses feared that annual sales plans would be difficult to implement, 12.9 per cent said orders were lower than for the same period in previous years, 14 per cent were concerned about the risk of failure and 42 per cent expected revenue to fall by more than 50 per cent in the first half of the year.
3月13日，工业和信息化部副部长辛国斌公开指出，当前企业复工复产过程当中仍然存在五点困难。
On March 13, Xin Guobin, deputy minister of industry and information technology, publicly stated that five difficulties remained in the process of returning enterprises to work.
这五点困难包括：一是人员流动存在“痛点”，企业用工短缺依然存在，一些关键岗位员工受困于疫情严重地区难以返岗；二是物流运输存在“堵点”，“最后一公里”的问题没有完全解决；三是中小企业现金流存在“断点”，政府出台的各项扶持政策缓解了中小企业的资金压力，但是在一些地方有一些企业反映这些政策看得见摸不着；四是原材料供应存在“卡点”，一些企业原材料不足，部分重要原料企业没有复工复产；五是防疫物资不足存在“难点”。
The difficulties include: first, there are "pain points" in the movement of personnel; there are still shortages of workers in key posts; difficulties in returning to key posts; difficulties in returning to work in areas with serious epidemics; third, the "blockage" of logistics transportation and the "last kilometre" problem.
防疫物资产能产量虽然有了较大幅度的提升，但是面对复工复产带来的巨量需求，供给依然存在不小缺口。
Although the production capacity of epidemic prevention materials has been greatly increased, but in the face of the huge demand for the resumption of production, there is still a large gap in supply.
2月中上旬，《财经》记者曾调研了珠三角地区部分科技企业。
In the first half of February, Caijing conducted a survey of selected technology companies in the Pearl River Delta region.
调查显示，企业进出口供应链当时还没有受太大影响，有一些大公司正筹划将产能临时转移至海外分支机构，但随着新冠疫情全球蔓延，海外诸多国家也在陆续采取居家隔离、停工停学等方式阻击病毒，全球产业链“中断”风险势必增大，这将给中国企业的复工复产蒙上新的阴影。
The survey showed that companies' import and export supply chains were not so affected at the time, with some big companies planning to temporarily shift production capacity overseas, but with the global spread of the new cap epidemic and many countries blocking the virus through home quarantine and school stoppages, the risk of disruption to global industrial chains is bound to increase, casting a new shadow over the resumption of Chinese companies.
疫情会不会引发大规模地降薪和裁员也是备受关注的问题。
Whether the outbreak will trigger large-scale wage cuts and layoffs is also a matter of concern.
《财经》调查显示，“不降薪不裁员”的企业到达39.5%，“严重裁员（超过50%以上）”以及“可能需要关闭企业”的合计占比达到15.6%。
The Caijing survey shows that 39.5 percent of companies have "no pay cuts, no layoffs," while 15.6 percent have "severe staff cuts (more than 50 percent)" and "may need to close down enterprises.
短期：最盼真金白银支持为了帮助企业尽快复工复产，目前国家多个机构已出炉有关政策。
In order to help enterprises resume production as soon as possible, a number of state institutions have issued relevant policies.
2月20日，人力资源社会保障部、财政部和税务总局联合推出《关于阶段性减免企业社会保险费的通知》，为企业阶段性“免减缓”社保、医保和住房公积金。
On February 20, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, the Ministry of Finance and the General Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Circular on Periodic Relief of Social Insurance Premiums for Enterprises, which provides enterprises with phased "relief" from social security, medical insurance and housing provident funds.
人社部副部长游钧在相关新闻发布会上表示，预计这次阶段性减免共可减少三项社保企业缴费5000亿元以上。
Deputy Minister Youjun said in a related press conference, the phased relief is expected to reduce the total of three social security enterprises to pay more than 500 billion yuan.
2月26日，中国央行宣布新增再贷款、再贴现额度5000亿元，主要用于支持企业复工复产。
On February 26, the People's Bank of China announced a new refinancing and rediscount line of 500 billion yuan, mainly to support enterprises to resume production.
人民银行数据显示，截至3月15日，金融机构累计发放优惠利率贷款共1114亿元。
As of March 15, financial institutions had issued 111.4 billion yuan in loans at preferential rates, according to the People's Bank of China.
北京在3月16日出台《关于全力做好疫情防控工作，保障企业有序复工复产的若干措施》。
On March 16, Beijing issued the "Measures to do a good job in the prevention and control of epidemic diseases and ensure the orderly return to work of enterprises."
该措施共十条，从“食、住、用、行”4个方面为企业提供复工服务保障。
Ten measures have been adopted to guarantee the resumption of work services for enterprises from the aspects of "eating, living, using and walking."
例如，在企业用工方面，北京相关机构协调安排开通专车专列，目前已“点对点”协调开通77辆专车、8个列车专厢，从山东、四川、陕西、江苏等省运送2735名务工人员返京返岗。
For example, in terms of enterprise employment, the relevant authorities in Beijing have coordinated the opening of special train lines, and have coordinated the opening of 77 special-purpose and 8 train carriages from Shandong, Sichuan, Shaanxi and Jiangsu provinces to transport 2,735 workers back to Beijing.
同一天，黑龙江省政府称将设立总规模100亿元的中小企业稳企稳岗基金，为中小企业纾困解难，坚持财政政策与金融、产业、就业等政策协同联动，充分发挥基金引导和撬动作用，使中小企业获得更多信贷资金。
On the same day, the Heilongjiang provincial government said it would set up a 10 billion yuan small and medium-sized enterprise stabilization fund to provide relief for small and medium-sized enterprises.
100亿元基金中，有省级基金60亿元，市县基金40亿元。
The 10 billion yuan fund includes 6 billion yuan from provincial funds and 4 billion yuan from city and county funds.
安徽省则从加快复工复产进度、加大稳岗用工保障、缓解中小微企业融资难融资贵融资慢等7个方面，出台22条措施，重在推动上下游产供销大中小企业整体配套协同复工。
Anhui Province, on the other hand, has adopted 22 measures to speed up the pace of resumption of production, increase job security, ease financing difficulties for MSMEs, and slow financing.
调查结果显示，在政府已经出台的支持性政策中，多个企业留言表示“社保费减免”和“减税”是企业认为能起到实际作用的。
Among the supportive policies the government has put in place, the survey found that a number of corporate messages referred to "social security" and "tax cuts" as being meaningful.
但过半企业现阶段希望得到资金上的“输血”：选择“有较大资金缺口（30%以上），急需融资”的企业达到39.5%；表示“略有资金缺口（10%-30%），需要融资”的企业达到15.6%。
However, more than half of the enterprises now want to receive financial "blood transfusion": 39.5% of enterprises choose "large financing gap (30% or more), urgent need of financing"; 15.6% of enterprises have "slight financing gap (10% -30%) and need financing."
因此，种种救助扶持政策中，企业最青睐的与真金白银相关：选择 “减免相关税”的企业占比达到32.7%；26.9%的企业希望能拿到“专项资金补贴”；20.3%的企业希望政府及相关机构“提供中长期贷款及现有贷款展期”。
As a result, the top priority for companies among the various bailout packages was real silver: 32.7 per cent opted for a "relevant tax reduction"; 26.9 per cent wanted a "earmarked subsidy"; and 20.3 per cent wanted the government and related agencies to "extend medium- and long-term loans and existing loans."
多位被调研企业人士进一步表达了同样意见，即希望政府的金融扶持真正的落到企业头上，而不是被个别中介和大企业拿走，希望能惠及到小微民办企业。
A number of respondents expressed the same opinion further, that it was hoped that government financial support would actually go to enterprises, rather than being taken away by individual intermediaries and large enterprises, in the hope that it would benefit small and micro-enterprises.
3月17日，人民银行召开电视电话会议再次强调，5000亿元再贷款再贴现政策要偏向抗击疫情冲击能力较弱的小微企业复工复产，支持生猪等畜禽养殖、水产养殖、磷肥生产等春耕备耕关键领域，支持国际供应链产品生产等外贸领域，支持贫困地区经济社会发展，对受疫情影响较大的旅游娱乐、住宿餐饮、交通运输等行业，也要做好金融支持工作。
On March 17, the People's Bank of China held a teleconference to re-emphasize that the policy of rediscount 500 billion yuan in refinancing should be biased in favour of small and micro enterprises with less capacity to fight the epidemic.
此外，虽然各种政策密集出台，企业在获得和使用信息上可能存在信息不通畅。
In addition, while policies are intensive, enterprises may have poor access to and use of information.
《财经》调查显示，36.6%的企业“希望尽快获得国家对于企业复工复产的政策和支持”；19.9%“能够及时收到产业链中关于复工复产的进展”的企业达到20%；19.7%的企业希望“获得金融机构对于企业融资的扶持政策”。
The Caijing survey showed that 36.6 percent of enterprises hope to get state policies and support for the resumption of industrial production as soon as possible.19.9 percent of enterprises can receive timely progress on resuming business operations in the industrial chain, and 19.7 percent want "supportive policies from financial institutions on enterprise financing."
《财经》记者的跟踪调查显示，目前已经有高新园区管理方注意到了企业的这一需求。
"Caijing" reporter follow-up investigation shows that there has been a high-tech park management attention to this enterprise demand.
中关村软件园是北京著名的高新技术园区，云集了腾讯、百度、网易、联想、IBM、科大讯飞等众多中外高科技企业，在园从业软件工程师超过8万人。
Zhongguancun Software Park is a well-known hi-tech park in Beijing. It is home to many high-tech enterprises, including Tencent, Baidu, Netease, Lenovo, IBM and HKUST.
园区管理方，北京中关村软件园发展有限公司的工作人员告诉《财经》记者，园区将很快上线专项查询平台，让企业一分钟即能查询到自己能获得哪些政策与资金的支持，并快速或许相关申报文件。
The park's management, staff at Zhongguancun Software Park Development Co., Ltd. told Caijing that the park would soon launch a special online inquiry platform, allowing companies to find out in a minute what policies and funds they can access, and possibly file the relevant documents quickly.
中长期：超40%企业考虑增加数字化投资新冠肺炎破坏力远超2003年的SarS，采取防控措施也堪称前所未有。
Medium- to long-term: more than 40% of companies consider increasing digital investment in new crown pneumonia far more destructive than Sars in 2003, measures of prevention and control are unprecedented.
庆幸的是，无论是中国还是全球，科技水平比17年前进步很多。
Fortunately, both in China and around the world, technology is much better than it was 17 years ago.
17年前，人们还处于2G移动通信时代，手中拿着的是诺基亚、三星等功能手机，今天的互联网巨头阿里、腾讯和百度等那时也都还处于创业起步阶段。
Seventeen years ago, when people were in the age of 2G mobile communications, with Nokia, Samsung and other devices in their hands, today's Internet giants Ali, Tencent and Baidu were also in their infancy.
如今，5G即将大规模商用，移动互联网、大数据、AI、云计算、超级计算机在等科技技术在病毒溯源、医药研究、疫情监测分析、人员流动监测、社区管理和企业复工复产等方面发挥了显著作用。
Today, 5G is on the verge of large-scale commercial use, with technology such as mobile Internet, big data, AI, cloud computing, supercomputers playing a prominent role in virus traceability, medical research, disease surveillance analysis, monitoring of human mobility, community management, and the return of businesses to work.
例如，在华为技术的加持下，深圳机场已支持旅客不脱口罩即可实现人脸识别和身份认证；借助超级计算机，上海市公共卫生临床中心10小时就完成了新冠病毒基因测序工作；武汉的火神山医院和雷神山医院可以采用5G实现远程会诊；腾讯、阿里的健康码成为普通民众走出家门的便捷凭证；以及疫情期间被大量使用的在线办公和在线教育系统，一直在支撑着社会的正常运转。
For example, thanks to Huawei's technology, Shenzhen airport has supported face recognition and identity authentication without wearing a mask; the Shanghai Public Health Clinic has been able to use 5G remote consultation in 10 hours; Tencent and Ali's health codes are convenient credentials for ordinary people to leave their homes; and the online office and online education system, which was widely used during the epidemic, has been supporting the normal functioning of society.
如果没有这些科技，在新冠病毒面前我们会更加被动。
Without these technologies, we would be even more passive in the face of the new crown virus.
《财经》调查显示，疫情期间，39.9%的企业采用了在线办公工具维持业务运转，12.8%的企业加速将业务迁移到云平台。
According to Caijing, 39.9 per cent of businesses used online office tools to sustain operations during the epidemic, and 12.8 per cent accelerated migration to cloud platforms.
在线办公工具以视频会议、员工在线沟通与协调等功能为主，阿里钉钉最早看好该赛道，发力最早，用户基础最好，其次是腾讯企业微信。
Online office tools are based on videoconferencing, online staff communication and coordination functions, Ali nail the first optimistic track, the earliest power, the best user base, followed by Tencent Enterprise micro-letter.
2019年，这一市场的价值被进一步看好，华为、今日头条等科技公司相继踏入该领域。
In 2019, the value of the market was further valued, with technology companies such as Huawei and Today's headlines stepping into the field.
但谁也没想到，是一场突发疫情，让一个原本文火慢炖型市场瞬间沸腾。
But who did not expect, is a sudden outbreak of disease, so that a slow-simmering market boiling.
武汉封城后的第三天，1月25日，华为宣布华为云WeLink免费，华为云总裁郑叶来1月27日在社交媒体上表示，仅一天时间华为云WeLink增加5000个企业用户。
On January 25, the third day after Wuhan closed the city, Huawei declared Huawei WeLink free of charge, and Huawei President Cheng Ye-lai said on January 27 on social media that Huawei had added 5,000 corporate users to its cloud WeLink in just one day.
目前远程协同办公工具多以阶段性免费形式提供给用户，疫情之后，如何继续粘住客户，是这些公司的共同挑战。
At present, the long-range office tools are provided to the users in stages free of charge. After the epidemic, how to continue to adhere to customers is a common challenge for these companies.
此外，数字化技术通常被视为用来提高企业生产效率，这次疫情让人们认识到数字化技术还能够帮助企业增加抗风险能力。
Moreover, digital technology is often seen as a way to improve the productivity of businesses, and the epidemic has led to the realization that digital technology can also help companies become more risk-resistant.
最显而易见的例子在制造业，那些数字化程度高、对人依赖低的制造企业受到的冲击就远远小于劳动力密集型企业。
The most obvious example is in manufacturing, where manufacturing firms that are highly digitized and less dependent on people are hit much harder than those that are labour-intensive.
还有一些较为传统的行业也深刻认识到了数字化的价值。
Some of the more traditional industries are also acutely aware of the value of digitization.
例如，教育培训行业原本较为青睐线下教育模式，相当一部分中小型教育培训机构此前多采用门店扩张方式来拓展业务，并没有太多数字化技术能力。
The education and training industry, for example, used to favour the offline mode of education and training, with a significant number of small and medium-sized education and training institutions that had previously used store expansion to expand their business.
当疫情袭来，门店尽关，这些中小型教育机构只好纷纷借助第三方直播平台仓促转向在线教育。
When the epidemic hit and stores closed, small and medium-sized educational institutions rushed to online education using third-party broadcast platforms.
相比之下，教育巨头好未来（学而思）因为2018年起即采用数字化技术实施线下与线上教育两手抓策略，疫情爆发后，好未来的线下培训课程迅速切换至在线模式，尽可能地留住了学生。
By contrast, with the education giant's strategy of using digital technology to implement both offline and online education from 2018 onwards, good future off-line training courses quickly switched to online mode, retaining students as much as possible after the outbreak.
但并非所有教育培训机构都能及时转舵，2月6日晚，线下IT培训机构“兄弟连教育”宣布北京停止招生，员工全部遣散。
But not all education and training institutions can be timely rudder, February 6 night, the offline IT training institute "Brothers and Education" announced that Beijing stopped enrollment, all staff discharge.
《财经》调查显示：27.5%的企业认为数字化技术在企业抗风险方面“非常有用”，选择“一般有用”的也达到了52.7%。
The Caijing survey showed that 27.5 percent of companies thought digital technology was "very useful" in terms of risk resistance, and 52.7 percent chose "generally useful."
企业经营状况普遍受冲击，但企业们开始意识到数字化技术对企业增强风险抵御能力、拓宽未来企业道路的重要性。
Business conditions are generally affected, but companies are beginning to realize the importance of digital technology to enhance the resilience of enterprises, broaden the road of future enterprises.
《财经》调查显示，未来一年对数字化的投资，37.7%的企业表示投资与去年持平，33.5%的企业声称投资增长10%，9%的企业甚至表示明年的数字化投资要增长30%以上。
According to Caijing survey, 37.7 percent of companies will invest in digitisation in the coming year, 33.5 percent will claim investment growth of 10 percent, and 9 percent will even say that digital investment will grow by more than 30 percent next year.
不仅是企业自发重视数字化技术，整个国家灾后建设方向也聚焦在科技上面。
Not only enterprises pay attention to digital technology spontaneously, but also focus on science and technology.
2020年3月，中共中央政治局常务委员会召开会议提出，要加快新型基础设施建设（简称“新基建”）。
In March 2020, the Standing Committee of the Politburo held a meeting to accelerate the construction of new infrastructure facilities.
新基建包含5G基站建设、特高压、城际高速铁路和城市轨道交通、新能源汽车充电桩、大数据中心、人工智能、工业互联网七大领域。
The new infrastructure comprises five gigabytes of base stations, ultra-high pressure, intercity high-speed rail and urban rail, new energy vehicle charging piles, large data centres, artificial intelligence and industrial Internet.
新冠肺炎的蔓延加剧了国内经济下行压力，在这种情况下，发挥有效投资的关键作用越发凸显。
The critical role of effective investment is all the more important in the light of the downward pressure on the domestic economy exacerbated by the spread of new crown pneumonia.
作为政府托底经济的常用手段，基建发力的紧迫性也被提到了一个新的高度，随着新兴科技和产业升级的持续推进，以及居民消费需求向线上倾斜，5G、工业互联网等“新基建”行业迎来了绝佳的发展窗口期，“新基建”进程的推进也就水到渠成。
As a common means of supporting the economy, the urgency of infrastructure power has been raised to a new height. With the continuous development of new technologies and industries, and the consumer demand tilting toward the line, the "new infrastructure" industries, such as 5G and the industrial Internet, have taken off.
企业层面，数字化时代，快速、无处不在的科技创新，让市场变化飞快，我们迟早会战胜新冠肺炎，但企业的常态是，将面临无处不在的挑战、及更为快速的竞争。
At the enterprise level, in the digital age, with rapid, ubiquitous technological innovation, and rapid market changes, we will overcome pneumonia sooner or later, but the norm for businesses is to face ubiquitous challenges and faster competition.
这将在无形中驱动着企业加强自身的数字化转型。
This will invisibly drive enterprises to strengthen their digital transformation.
企业生存状况是社会经济活动的晴雨表，数字化能力建设将不再是可有可无的装饰品或奢侈品，应成为企业肌肉的重要组成部分。
The enterprise living condition is the socioeconomic activity barometer, the digitization capacity-building will no longer be the dispensable ornament or the luxury goods, should become the enterprise muscle important component.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
《财经》调研：36%企业未复工，疫情倒逼企业数字化升级。
Caijing survey: 36% of enterprises did not resume work, the epidemic situation forced enterprises to upgrade digital.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "《财经》调研：36%企业未复工，疫情倒逼企业数字化升级";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Caijing: 36% of companies didn't get back to work, and the epidemic pushes companies up at & quot;;
var msg_desc = "参与《财经》调研的多位企业人士表示，希望政府的金融扶持能更好地惠及小微企业";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
