幼儿园开学为何早于高校？江苏省复学安排引争议。
Why kindergarten starts earlier than university? Jiangsu Province to resume schooling arrangement caused controversy.
徐辰烨 等。
Hsu Hsien Ye etc.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
一方面，早日开园可以缓解民办园因疫情导致的经济损失和压力，是当地复工复产的重要一环；另一方面，幼儿抵抗力低、个人防护意识薄弱等也带来了病毒感染的隐忧。
On the one hand, the early opening of gardens can alleviate the economic losses and pressure caused by the epidemic situation in private gardens, and is an important link in the resumption of local work.
幼儿园的开园时间点是否已经成熟？文 |《财经》实习生 徐辰烨 刘梓桐 记者 姚佳莹 编辑 | 朱弢继贵州、青海、新疆等省份之后，江苏成为第13个明确复学时间的省份。
Is the kindergarten opening time ripe? JIAO JIAYING, a reporter with Caijing Liu Ji-ying, a journalist. Zhu Taoho, Guizhou, Qinghai and Xinjiang provinces, Jiangsu has become the 13th province to explicitly resume schooling.
3月21日晚，江苏省教育厅发布通知，各级各类学校将于3月30日起分批次、错峰开学。
On the evening of March 21, the Jiangsu Provincial Education Bureau announced that schools of all levels and types would begin classes in batches and staggered peaks starting March 30.
其中，高三年级、初三年级3月30日开学；中小学（含中职学校、特教学校、幼儿园）其他学段、年级做好4月7日开学准备；高校将以4月13日为时间点准备开学。
The third year of senior high school and the third grade of junior high school begin on March 30. The primary and secondary schools (including secondary vocational schools, special education schools and kindergartens) are ready for the start of school on April 7.
2月6日，江苏省发布延迟开学通知。
On 6 February, Jiangsu Province issued a notification of the delayed start of the school year.
44天后，复课复学最终被提上日程。
After 44 days, the resumption of classes was finally on the agenda.
然而，幼儿园开学时间早于高校的安排却引发了争议。
However, the arrangement that kindergarten starts earlier than university has caused controversy.
有微博网友表示赞同，“孩子在家已经闹的不行”，希望赶紧送去上学。
Have Weibo netizen to express agreement, "the child already made trouble at home", hope to send to school quickly.
另有一些家长表示，因为父母均开始正式上班，孩子一个人在家缺少看护，也希望幼儿园尽快开学，好让孩子白天有人照顾。
Other parents said they hoped the kindergarten would reopen as soon as possible so the children could be cared for by someone during the day because their parents were at work and the children were left to fend for themselves.
但反对者则表示，目前病毒没有完全肃清，幼儿抵抗力弱，“感染了谁来负责？”还有的家长明确表示，不准备在4月份送孩子去上学。
Opponents say the virus is not completely eliminated and young children have weak defenses, "who is responsible for the infection?" Others have made it clear they are not ready to send their children to school in April.
中国教育科学研究院研究员储朝晖向《财经》记者表示，幼儿园能够开学主要是考虑到幼儿园的孩子往往集中在某一个小的社区范围内，“只要相关社区内部没有新病例产生，开园对于新冠肺炎防疫工作来说是相对可控的，就可以开学”。
"The fact that kindergarten children tend to be clustered in a small community," as long as there are no new cases in the community, the park is relatively manageable for the new crown pneumonia epidemic and can start school, "Caijing, a researcher at the China Academy of Educational Sciences, told Caijing.
21世纪教育研究院副院长熊丙奇则认为，虽然早日开园可缓解民办幼儿园的运营压力，但低龄幼童对于个人卫生防护的意识比较薄弱，“目前考虑幼儿园的开学问题还是有点操之过急”。
Xiong Bingqi, vice-dean of the Institute for Education in the 21st Century, said that while an early start to kindergarten would ease the operating pressure on private kindergartens, awareness of individual health protection among young children was weak.
一方面，早日开园可以缓解民办园因疫情导致的经济损失和压力，是当地复工复产的重要一环；另一方面，幼儿抵抗力低、个人防护意识薄弱等也带来了病毒感染的隐忧。
On the one hand, the early opening of gardens can alleviate the economic losses and pressure caused by the epidemic situation in private gardens, and is an important link in the resumption of local work.
幼儿园的开园时间点是否已经成熟？幼儿园是否可以复课了？截至3月22日，江苏省已连续33天无新增本地新冠肺炎确诊病例，疫情基本得到控制。
Is the kindergarten opening time ripe? Is it possible for kindergartens to resume? As of March 22, Jiangsu Province has had no new confirmed cases of local crown pneumonia for 33 consecutive days and the epidemic situation has been basically under control.
为何幼儿园开学时间早于高校？储朝晖向《财经》记者表示，相比于幼儿往往集中于一个社区，高校的学生生源面更广，流动性也较大，各地疫情不同，很难依照各地情况确定统一开学时间，故暂时难以开学。
'Compared to the concentration of young children in one community, higher education students tend to be more diverse, mobile and have different epidemics, making it difficult to set uniform opening hours according to local conditions, "he told Caijing.
另一方面，也有缓解幼儿园运营压力的考量。
On the other hand, there are also considerations to ease the pressure on kindergarten operations.
熊丙奇向《财经》记者表示，幼儿园开园源于两大现实压力。
Xiong told Caijing that the kindergarten started because of two real-life pressures.
“其一，疫情期间，民办幼儿园也和很多行业一样面临着经济压力，不开园就没有收入，但同时需要支付老师的薪酬以及房租等费用，因此，幼儿园也期待尽快开学。
"First, during the epidemic, private kindergartens, like many other industries, are under economic pressure not to open a garden, but to pay teachers' salaries and rent, so they are looking forward to starting school as soon as possible.
”熊丙奇说。
"said Xiong.
其二，随着复工复产，家长开始陆续返回工作岗位，孩子单独在家没人看管，所以部分没有陪护条件的家长会希望幼儿园尽快开学。
Second, as work resumes and parents begin to return to work, children are left unattended at home, so some parents who are not accompanied want kindergartens to open as soon as possible.
尽管如此，熊丙奇还是认为，幼儿园开园复学需谨慎，可能会给现阶段的防疫带来新的压力。
Still, Xiong believed that the kindergarten should be reopened carefully, may bring new pressure to the current stage of immunization.
“低龄幼童对于个人卫生防护的意识比较薄弱，且园内孩童众多，生活起居都在一起，一旦有一名孩童感染，很容易传染给其他孩子，孩子归家后再将病毒传染给家人，这也为当前的疫情防控增加新的难度和挑战，”熊丙奇向《财经》记者表示，“还是需要谨慎评估风险，从安全和控制成本的角度考虑，幼儿园开园应该放在最后。
"Young children are less aware of personal health protection, they have many children, they live together, once a child is infected, it is easy to spread the virus to other children, and the children come home and transmit the virus to their families," Xiong told Caijing.
”2月初，北京市教委、市人力社保局的联合发文：经市政府同意，每户家庭可有一名职工在家看护未成年子女，期间的工资待遇由职工所属企业按出勤照发。
In early February, a joint letter from the Beijing Municipal Education Commission and the municipal social security bureau said: "With the consent of the municipal government, each family may have one worker to look after their minor children at home, with pay according to the employee's time and attendance.
职工看护未成年子女期间，企业不得解除劳动合同。
An enterprise may not terminate a labour contract while a worker is caring for a minor child.
熊丙奇建议，各地可以参考北京的政策，有未成年人的家庭可以向公司申请父母中的一方在家办公或者协调错开上班时间，保证家里有人陪护。
Xiong suggested that Beijing's policy could be used as a reference for families with minors, who can apply to the company for one of their parents to work from home or coordinate staggered working hours to ensure that the family is accompanied.
同时也可以对民办幼儿园采取补贴和财政帮扶措施，减少其他因素对幼儿园开园带来的压力。
At the same time, private kindergartens can be subsidized and financial assistance measures to reduce other factors brought about by the pressure on kindergarten.
幼儿安全如何保障？按照2月28日教育部印发的《部署统筹做好教育系统新冠肺炎疫情防控和教育改革发展工作》，判断一个地方是否具备开学的条件，有三个原则性的要求：一是疫情没有得到基本控制前不开学；二是学校基本防控条件不具备不开学；三是师生和校园公共卫生安全得不到切实保障不开学。
To determine whether a place is eligible to start school, there are three principled requirements: first, that schools should not reopen before the epidemic is basically under control; second, that conditions for basic school prevention and control should not be reopened; and that public health security for teachers and students and schools should not be effectively guaranteed.
截至3月22日，青海、新疆、贵州三地已经完成了部分学生的复学。
As of March 22, some students have resumed their studies in Qinghai, Xinjiang and Guizhou.
按计划，云南省的高三、初三年级也将于3月23日开学。
The third and third years of senior high school in Yunnan Province are also scheduled to begin on March 23.
除上述四地外，还有另外9个省份明确了复学时间。
In addition to the above-mentioned four provinces, nine other provinces have specified the time frame for resuming schooling.
已经开学或明确开学时间的13个省份大部分位于中西部，江苏将成为东部地区开学最早的省份。
Most of the 13 provinces that are open or have a clear start are in the Midwest, and Jiangsu will be the first to open in the east.
3月2日，江苏省教育厅印发《江苏省中小学2020年春季学期开学工作指引》，要求全省中小学做好开学前准备工作，统筹安排中小学错峰开学。
On March 2, Jiangsu Provincial Education Bureau issued the "Guidelines for School Opening in the Spring Term 2020 of Jiangsu Province," which requires primary and secondary schools in the province to prepare for the start of the school year and to coordinate the start of primary and secondary schools.
在开学前，学校要掌握师生健康状况，准备必要的防控物资，并提前谋划教学安排，提前进行防疫培训。
Before the start of the school year, schools should master the health of teachers and students, prepare the necessary materials for prevention and control, and plan ahead of time teaching arrangements, vaccination training.
在开学后，学校要落实晨午检制度，加强返校师生健康管控，定期消毒，加强管理。
After school starts, the school should implement the morning noonday inspection system, strengthen the back to school health control, regular disinfection, strengthen management.
3月5日，江苏省教育厅再次针对教师群体发布通知，对教职工的返岗问题作了安排，要求“所有外出的教职工返回居住地后须连续居家隔离观察14天，健康者方可返校”。
On March 5, the Jiangsu Provincial Education Bureau issued another notice to the teachers' community, stipulating that "all teachers and staff returning to their places of residence should remain in quarantine for 14 consecutive days before returning to school."
目前，国内的新冠疫情已经得到逐步控制，但境外输入又给本来向好的局势增加新的挑战。
At present, the new crown epidemic in China has been gradually controlled, but the import from abroad has added new challenges to the good situation.
截至3月22日24时，累计报告境外输入确诊病例已经达到353例。
As at 2400 hours on 22 March, a cumulative total of 353 confirmed cases had been reported from outside the country.
在复学时间发布的同一天，江苏省首次出现了两例境外输入新冠肺炎确诊病例。
On the same day of the resumption of schooling, Jiangsu Province had two confirmed cases of imported pneumonia abroad for the first time.
储朝晖告诉《财经》记者，江苏省能够开学说明已经满足了教育部规定的三项原则，境外输入病例大多被及时隔离，因此风险可以控制，但开学依然要求园方作出充足的准备，落实责任方，谨慎部署，做好应急预案。
According to Caijing, the fact that Jiangsu Province has been able to start classes has met the three principles laid down by the Ministry of Education. Most of the cases imported from abroad are isolated in a timely manner, so risks can be controlled. However, the reopening of the school year still requires adequate preparation, responsible parties, prudent deployment and contingency planning.
在江苏省教育厅3月2日印发的《江苏省中小学2020年春季学期开学工作指引》中，具体说明了责任落实问题。
The implementation of this responsibility was specified in the Guidelines for the Opening of Primary and Secondary Schools in Jiangsu Province for the Spring Term 2020, issued on 2 March by the Jiangsu Provincial Education Bureau.
其中第十九条要求强化学校主体责任和校园安全，要“全面落实校长第一责任人责任和班主任班级防控第一责任人责任”。
Article 19 calls for strengthening the main responsibility of the school and campus security, "to fully implement the principal's primary responsibility and the head teacher's class prevention and control of the primary responsibility".
第二十条则规定要强化组织领导和督查问责，“对辖区内所有中小学的防控工作进行飞行督查，严明纪律要求，持续强化执纪监督问责，筑牢严密防线”。
Article 20 provides for the strengthening of organizational leadership and accountability, "the control of all primary and secondary schools in the jurisdiction of the flight supervision, strict discipline requirements, continuous strengthening of discipline supervision and accountability, and a strong defensive line."
储朝晖补充道，保障幼儿园能够安全开学，不仅仅在于园方的努力，还需要家长的配合。
Save Chaohui added that the guarantee kindergarten can be safely reopened, not only depends on garden efforts, but also needs the cooperation of parents.
要尽量减少儿童的对“外”接触。
Children's "outside" contact should be minimized.
“儿童的防护意识较低，且园内儿童聚集，确实较难管理，但如果都是健康的儿童，就不存在交叉感染的风险”，在储朝晖看来，幼儿园开园最大的风险实际来自于幼儿园外部。
"It is true that children are less protective and that children congregate in the garden, which is difficult to manage, but if they are healthy children, there is no risk of cross-infection," said Saito, whose biggest risk for kindergarten openings actually comes from outside the kindergarten.
“例如上下学时家长尽量保证车接车送，中途不要带孩子在商场、菜市场等人群密集区停留，家长本人也要做好疫情的防护措施，避免家庭感染。
"For example, parents try to ensure that the car pick-up, not with the children in shopping malls, the Halles market, and other densely populated areas, parents themselves should do a good job of epidemic prevention measures to avoid family infection.
”储朝晖说。
"said the store.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
幼儿园开学为何早于高校？江苏省复学安排引争议。
Why kindergarten starts earlier than university? Jiangsu Province to resume schooling arrangement caused controversy.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "幼儿园开学为何早于高校？江苏省复学安排引争议";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Why did kindergarten begin earlier than university? Jiangsu province's resumption of classes was controversial;;
var msg_desc = "一方面，早日开园可以缓解民办园因疫情导致的经济损失和压力，是当地复工复产的重要一环；另一方面，幼儿抵抗力低、个人防护意识薄弱等也带来了病毒感染的隐忧。
var msg _ desc = & quot; On the one hand, an early garden can ease the economic losses and stress caused by the outbreak and is an important part of returning to work. On the other hand, young children's low resistance and weak personal protective awareness also carry the risk of infection.
幼儿园的开园时间点是否已经成熟？";。
; Has the kindergarten started at the right time?;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
