抗疫对策：中国可发力五大扩张性财政政策。
Anti-epidemic countermeasures: China can force five expansionary fiscal policies.
王晓霞。
Wang Xiaoxia.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
进一步减税降费、提高赤字率至3%或3%以上、大幅提高地方政府专项债券额度、发行特别国债、大力推动“新基建”投资等五项扩张性财政政策呼声渐高，有望在更大范围和更高层面逐步形成共识图/视觉中国文|《财经》记者王晓霞编辑|王延春最近两周，新冠肺炎疫情全球大爆发，市场恐慌情绪持续发酵，世界经济下行压力明显加大，刚刚走出疫情阴霾正试图逐步回归正轨的中国经济，再度面临高度不确定性。
Five expansionary fiscal policies - further reducing taxes, raising the deficit to 3% or more, sharply increasing local-government bond quotas, issuing special government bonds, and vigorously promoting "new infrastructure" investment - are all calling for more expansionary fiscal policies.
2020年3月18日，中国中共中央政治局常务委员会召会议，分析了国内外新冠肺炎疫情防控和经济形势，中共中央总书记习近平在会上指出，境外疫情扩散蔓延及其对世界经济产生的不利影响，给中国疫情防控和经济发展带来了新挑战。
On March 18, 2020, the Standing Committee of China's Politburo Politburo convened a conference to analyse the prevention and control of the new crown pneumonia epidemic and the economic situation at home and abroad.
此前月余，为有效控制疫情扩散，中国境内的大部分经济活动几近停滞，疫情冲击下供给与需求同时收缩，2020年1月-2月中国大部分主要经济指标均下滑明显。
Most economic activity in China had ground to a halt in the last few months to effectively control the spread of the epidemic, with supply and demand contracting simultaneously under the impact of the epidemic, with most of China's main economic indicators falling sharply between January and February 2020.
大部分国内外机构和经济学家预测2020年中国经济增速低于6%。
Most domestic and foreign institutions and economists predict growth of less than 6% in 2020.
随着中国国内疫情防控取得成效，2月中下旬起中国企业复工复产的步伐逐渐加快。
With the success of domestic epidemic prevention and control in China, the pace of resumption of production by Chinese enterprises accelerated gradually from the middle and second half of February.
为促进经济尽快回归正轨，推动供给与需求同步复苏，2020年更加宽松的财政政策被寄予厚望。
Expectations are high for looser fiscal policy in 2020 to put the economy back on track as soon as possible and to propel supply and demand to a synchronized recovery.
根据多位专家建议，进一步减税降费、提高赤字率至3%或3%以上、大幅提高地方政府专项债券额度、发行特别国债、大力推动“新基建”投资等五项扩张性财政政策呼声渐高，有望在更大范围和更高层面逐步形成共识。
According to many experts, five expansionary fiscal policies - further tax cuts, an increase in the deficit rate to 3% or more, a substantial increase in local government bond issues, special government bonds, and a strong push for "new infrastructure" investments - are gaining momentum and are expected to evolve into consensus on a broader scale and beyond.
前述常委会上，确保2020年实现决胜全面建成小康社会目标任务再度被提及，这意味着2020年比2010年经济总量翻一番的目标并未松动，今年中国的GDP增长目标大概率在6%或以上。
At the aforementioned Standing Committee, the task of ensuring a decisive victory by 2020 towards the goal of a well-off society was again mentioned, meaning that the goal of doubling the economy by 2020 as compared to 2010 has not been relaxed, with a high probability that China's GDP growth target will be 6 per cent or higher this year.
在当前严峻的国内外经济形势下，大规模的财政刺激计划或在酝酿之中。
In the current austere domestic and foreign economic situation, a large-scale fiscal stimulus plan or in the pipeline.
无疑，积极的财政政策更加积极有为，及时、有力采取逆周期调节措施，是当前形势下中国宏观调控的首选，问题在于中国可采取的财政政策的空间有多大，以及进行调控的“组合拳”及其力度与节奏如何选择。
There is no doubt that active fiscal policy is more active and effective, and the timely and vigorous adoption of countercyclical adjustment measures is China's first choice in the current situation. The question is how much room there is for China to adopt in fiscal policy, and how to choose the "combination" of regulation and its strength and rhythm.
相比全球大部分经济体，不少研究机构和经济学家认为中国财政政策可选择的刺激措施较多，回旋余地也较大。
Compared with most economies around the world, many researchers and economists believe that China's fiscal policy has more options and more room for manoeuvre.
不过，也应当清醒看到，近年来中国财政紧平衡问题日益凸显，特别是2019年在超2万亿元减税降费措施、经济下行压力加大和中美经贸摩擦等多重因素叠加下，全国一般公共预算收入同比仅增长了3.8%，未达年初预计增速（5%），其中的税收收入同比仅增长1%。
However, it should also be borne in mind that China's fiscal balance has become increasingly acute in recent years. In 2019, combined with a combination of over 2 trillion yuan in tax cuts, mounting economic downward pressure, and economic and trade frictions between China and the United States, China's general public budget revenue grew by 3.8% year-on-year, less than 5% year-on-year.
全国31个省份中6个省份2019年一般公共预算收入同比下降，17个省份增长低于5%。
In 2019, general public budget revenues decreased year on year in 6 of the country's 31 provinces and grew by less than 5 per cent in 17 provinces.
截至记者发稿，2020年1-2月全国财政收支数据尚未公布，但预计受疫情影响全国财政收入大概率负增长。
As of the press release, January-February 2020, the national fiscal balance data has not yet been released, but the epidemic is expected to affect the national revenue growth rate negative growth.
财政收入低增长和高企的地方政府隐性债务，是当前选择进一步财政刺激措施时必须考量的因素，如何使得财政政策宏观调控的“组合拳”及其力度与节奏既能最大程度拉动经济增长，推动实现全面建成小康社会目标，又不进一步增加高债务风险地区的地方政府债务风险，考验政策制定者的智慧。
Low revenue growth and high hidden local government debt are the factors that must be considered when choosing further fiscal stimulus measures. How to make the combination of macro-control of fiscal policy and its strength and rhythm can not only maximize economic growth, but also promote the goal of a well-off society, without further increasing the risk of local government debt in high-debt risk areas, test the wisdom of policymakers.
1-2月部分省份财政收入负增长尽管目前财政部尚未公布2020年1月-2月的财政收支数据，但从部分省份已公布的前两个月财政收人情况看，1月-2月全国财政收入大概率负增长。
January-February Some provinces recorded negative revenue growth Although the Ministry of Finance has not yet released the January-February 2020 fiscal balance, the first two months of fiscal revenue reported in some provinces show negative growth rates for January and February.
《财经》记者统计了截至3月17日各省份发布的财政收支数据，除湖北、西藏等12个省份尚未公布今年前两个月的财政数据、青海公布的数据逻辑不自洽，其余18个省份中，上海、吉林、辽宁、内蒙古、甘肃、贵州等6省份公布了2020年1月-2月份的一般公共预算收入数据，均为负增长，增速依次分别为-4.9%、-12.7%、-11.6%、-20.3%、-4.7%、-0.5%。
Statistics released by Caijing for the first two months of this year have not been released in 12 provinces except Hubei and Tibet, and the data released by Qinghai are inconsistent. Six of the remaining 18 provinces, Shanghai, Jilin, Liaoning, Inner Mongolia, Gansu and Guizhou, posted negative growth rates of -4.9%, -12.7%, -11.6%, -20.3%, -4.7%, -0.5%.
北京、浙江等12个仅公布了2020年1月份的财政收入情况的省份中，其中，北京、山西、陕西、河北、安徽等五省份2020年1月份一般公共预算收入负增长，增速依次分别为-6.5%、-19.8%、-16.63%、-11.7%、-0.9%；公布了今年1月份一般公共预算收入中税收收入的9个省份中有7个负增长，分别为广东（-4.2%）、广西（-4.8%）、山东（-3.8%）、山西（-23.8%）、海南（-17.6%）、陕西（-12.74%）、河北（-15.4%）。
Of the 12 provinces in Beijing and Zhejiang that reported fiscal revenue only for January 2020, five, namely, Beijing, Shanxi, Shaanxi, Hebei and Anhui, registered negative growth rates of -6.5%, -19.8%, -16.63%, -11.7%, -0.9%.
由于财政收入入库时间与征税的经济活动发生时间之间有时间差，今年1月份征收的财政收入主要来源于去年12月份的征税经济活动，当时湖北以外中国其他省份的疫情尚不明显，显示经济下行压力依旧较大。
Because of the time lag between when revenues are collected and when they are taxed, the revenue collected in January came mainly from the tax-collecting economic activity in December, when the epidemic in other provinces outside Hubei was still not apparent, suggesting that the economic downturn was still strong.
对于此次疫情重灾区湖北的财政收入情况，财政部副部长许宏才在2020年3月5日国务院召开的联防联控机制新闻发布会上坦言，今年2月份、3月份湖北只有零星收入入库。
On March 5, 2020, Xu Hongcai, vice minister of finance, admitted at a press conference held by the State Council on March 5, 2020 that Hubei province had only sporadic revenues.
据《财经》记者了解，今年前两个月湖北省财政收入的降幅超30%。
According to Caijing reporter, in the first two months of this year Hubei Province revenue fell by more than 30 percent.
总体而言，今年前两个月受新冠肺炎疫情叠加经济下行、减税降费翘尾、中美经贸摩擦等多重因素影响，全国一般公共预算收入大概率负增长。
Overall, the first two months of this year, the New Crown Pneumonia superimposed economic downturn, tax cuts, trade frictions between China and the United States, and other factors, such as the negative growth rate of general public budget revenue.
此外，受疫情影响，政府性基金预算收入中的国有土地使用权出让收入预计也大幅下降。
In addition, due to the epidemic, the revenue from the transfer of the right to use State-owned land in the Government's budget revenue is expected to decline significantly.
据《财经》记者了解，主要受疫情期间土地拍卖量价齐跌等因素影响，西部某省会级城市2020年1-2月该项收入下降超40%。
According to Caijing reporter, the income of a provincial capital city in the west fell by more than 40 percent between January and February 2020 due to factors such as a drop in the auction price of land during the epidemic period.
一位地方财政厅预算部门人士告诉《财经》记者，受财政收入时间差、企业产能尚未完全恢复以及消费仍旧低迷等因素影响，预计至少在今年上半年疫情对财政收入的拖累仍会不同程度的存在。
A budget official at the local finance ministry told Caijing that the revenue drag from the outbreak is expected to remain at least in the first half of this year, due to factors such as time lag, incomplete recovery in business capacity and still low consumption.
应该说，今年1月-2月全国财政收入负增长在预料之中，此前国家统计局等有关部门发布的全国主要经济数据受疫情影响均大幅下跌，如：1月—2月份规模以上工业增加值同比实际下降13.5%、1月—2月份全国固定资产投资同比下降24.5%，其中，民间固定资产投资同比下降26.4%、1月—2月份全国房地产开发投资同比下降16.3%、1月-2月份社会消费品零售总额扣除价格因素实际下降23.7%、1月-2月份以美元计价的中国货物贸易进出口同比下降11.0%，其中，出口同比下降17.2%，进口同比下降4.0%、2月份全国工业生产者出厂价格（PPI）同比下降0.4%，PPI再次进入负值区间。
The year-on-year growth of industrial added value from January to February fell by 13.5 percent year on year. China's fixed assets investment in January and February fell 24.5 percent year-on-year.
野村证券2020年3月16日发布的研报预计，今年一季度中国中国实际GDP同比增速将从2019年四季度的6.0%降至一季度的0.0%，并表示可能出现负增长。
The Nomura study, released March 16, 2020, predicts real GDP growth in China will slow to 0.0% YoY in the first quarter of 2019, from 6.0% YoY in the fourth quarter of 2019, and says there could be negative growth.
此外，鉴于新冠肺炎疫情迅速蔓延成为全球大流行病并将可能在未来几个季度对中国外需造成巨大压力，其将2020年二季度中国GDP同比增速从此前预计的6.5%下调至5.0%。
Moreover, given the rapid spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic as a global pandemic, which will likely put enormous pressure on China's external demand in the coming quarters, China's GDP growth in the second quarter of 2020 was cut to 5.0 per cent year-on-year from 6.5 per cent previously forecast.
全球经济危机魅影已现， 财政刺激应予考量据世界卫生组织公布的数据，截至北京时间3月21日6时59分，全球新冠肺炎疫情已波及182个国家和地区，确诊病例超26.6万例，中国以外的确诊病例超18.4万例。
The spectre of the global economic crisis has emerged. According to figures released by the World Health Organization (WHO) on March 21, at 6: 59 a.m. Beijing time, the global new crown pneumonia epidemic had affected 182 countries and regions, with 266,000 confirmed cases and 184,000 confirmed cases outside China.
2020年3月9日至3月19日短短11天内，美国三大股指四次触发熔断机制，欧洲三大股指相应时间也全线下跌，全球市场已极度恐慌。
In just 11 days, from March 9 to March 19, 2020, the three major US stock indexes triggered the meltdown four times, and all three European indexes fell at the same time, causing extreme panic in global markets.
三月份以来，美国降息150个基点和7000亿美元量化宽松计划，目前看来并不能后抚平市场的恐慌情绪。
Since March, the US has cut interest rates by 150 basis points and $700 billion in quantitative easing (QE), which so far do not seem to quell market fears.
疫情全球大流行和国际油价下跌是否会成为蝴蝶煽动的两只翅膀，在近两年来全球经济不景气和美国向世界多国发动贸易战的阴霾下，引发新一轮的全球经济危机，备受瞩目。
The global pandemic and the fall in international oil prices are likely to be the twin wings of a butterfly, triggering a new global economic crisis in the shadow of the global economic downturn of the past two years and the US launching of a trade war with many other countries.
面对新的全球经济形势，中国政府在推出进一步的财政刺激计划时，需要将全球经济危机风险纳入考量范围，以保障政策目标得以实现。
Faced with the new global economic situation, the Chinese government needs to take the risks of the global economic crisis into account when launching further fiscal stimulus plans to ensure that policy goals are achieved.
对于新一轮全球经济危机是否会爆发或是否已来临，经济学家们有不同观点。
Economists differ on whether a new round of global economic crisis will break out or whether it is coming.
摩根士丹利（中国）首席经济学家邢自强2020年3月16日表示，全球衰退已难以避免，但由于这次引发金融海啸的起因是疫情的全球蔓延，最终如果能够控制住疫情，其对经济的冲击相对是短期的，因此，目前看总体上引起系统性金融崩塌的可能性还偏低。
Morgan Stanley (China) Chief Economist Xing Zhiqiang said March 16, 2020, that the global recession is inevitable, but because the cause of the financial tsunami is the global spread of the epidemic, ultimately if the epidemic can be brought under control, its economic impact is relatively short-term, so the overall likelihood of systemic financial collapse is low.
海通国际首席经济学家孙明春在3月18日上海高级金融学院举办的论坛上则表示，全球经济危机已经到来，原因有以下三方面：一是新冠肺炎疫情已经成为全球性公共卫生危机，二是今年1季度或2季度全球经济会进入衰退，鉴于衰退的深度可能超出以往，绝大部分发达经济体都会陷入经济危机，三是目前金融市场各大类资产的波动在最近二三十年里已经仅次于2009年金融海啸，在大的波动率下，全球将有相当多的金融机构会出现流动性困难，有爆仓的风险，全球金融市场波动已达到危机水平。
The first is that the global economy will enter recession in the first or second quarter of this year. Second, given the depth of the recession, most advanced economies will fall into economic crisis.
“我基本可以断定现在全球已经进入了危机阶段。
"I can basically conclude that the world is now in a crisis phase.
”中泰证券首席经济学家李迅雷也向《财经》记者表示。
Li Xunlei, chief economist at Cathay Pacific Securities, also told Caijing.
在他看来，全球正处于经济危机初期。
In his view, the world was in the early stages of the economic crisis.
他表示，过去十年在低通胀和持续宽松刺激下，美国居民、企业资产负债表持续扩张，美国居民的大部分资产都在资本市场上，长期低利率诱使公司资产负债表过度扩表，通过回购股票来“虚增”利润，推升股价，形成财富效应，促进消费，带动就业，形成“虚假”繁荣，当音乐停下来时，击鼓传花的游戏停止，最终将触发系统性风险。
He said that over the past decade, stimulated by low inflation and continued easing, US residents and businesses continued to expand their balance sheets, with most of their assets in the capital markets. Long-term low interest rates induced companies to overbalance their balance sheets, inflate stock prices, generate wealth effects, boost consumption, boost employment and create a "false" boom.
“最近两周美国金融市场出现大幅波动，风险资产和避险资产一起下跌，美国国债、企业债、股市、黄金均出现下跌，显示市场已经出现了流动性危机。
"In the last two weeks there has been a lot of volatility in US financial markets, with risky assets and hedging assets falling together and Treasury bonds, corporate debt, stocks and gold all falling, indicating a liquidity crisis."
”他说。
'he said.
安信证券首席经济学家高善文在3月15日召开的内部研讨会上也表现出对美国垃圾级债券和美国上市公司大量举债来回购股票可能引发危机的担忧。
At an internal conference on March 15, Mr. Gao Shanwen, chief economist at Citic Securities, also expressed concern about the risk of a crisis arising from the massive borrowing of U.S. junk-grade bonds and US-listed companies to buy back shares.
他表示，此前人们普遍认为美国高收益债市场存在泡沫，美国页岩油企业又是重要的债券发行人，在石油价格战和疫情的冲击下，这个泡沫可能正在破灭。
He said there had been a widespread belief that there was a bubble in the US high-yield debt market and that US shale oil companies were important issuers, a bubble that might be bursting under the impact of oil price wars and epidemics.
邢自强在前述发言场合表示，面对目前的全球衰退和金融海啸的下行风险，中国必然会受到冲击。
Xing said China was bound to be hit by the current global recession and the downside risks of the financial tsunami.
首先，海外的市场的波动肯定会影响到中国A股和国内的金融市场；其次，产业链一定程度上会受到冲击，中国复工复产的进度也会受到全球经济形势的影响；再者，受疫情影响国外开始进行旅行限制，减少社交活动，消费需求萎缩，全球可能占GDP超过一半的区域会按下暂停键，中国的外需将受到拖累；另外，境外新冠肺炎疫情携带者输入境内，给中国的疫情防控带来了新的风险。
Second, the industrial chain will be affected to some extent, and the pace of China's resumption of production will be affected by the global economic situation. Moreover, travel restrictions, reduced social activities, shrinking consumer demand in regions where the world may account for more than half of GDP will press the moratorium and drag on China's external demand.
野村证券在3月16日的研报预计，受新冠肺炎疫情大流行极其可能在未来几个季度对中国外需造成巨大压力，2020年全年中国GDP增速可能降至4.8%，此前其预测为5.0%。
The Nomura study on March 16 predicts that a new outbreak of pneumonia is likely to weigh heavily on Chinese external demand in the coming quarters, with annual GDP growth likely to slow to 4.8% in 2020, down from 5.0% forecast.
孙明春认为2020年中国经济增长将破六无疑，李迅雷则认为若疫情没有在全球大流行中国GDP增长可达5%左右，目前很难预测，可能在3%左右。
Mr. Sun thinks China's economy will grow by six percent by 2020, while Mr. Li thinks it is hard to predict -- perhaps 3% -- without a global pandemic that would see China's GDP grow by about 5%.
李迅雷向《财经》记者表示，在疫情冲击和国际资本市场动荡背景下，中国首要任务是保就业。
Li told Caijing that in the context of the impact of the epidemic and the turmoil in international capital markets, China's top priority is to protect jobs.
一方面应拉动消费需求，特别是内需，因为如果需求不振，一些全面复工复产企业由于订单不足其实际产量也难以恢复到疫情前的水平，受疫情影响大的餐饮、旅游等行业仍将面临许多困难。
On the one hand, consumer demand, especially domestic demand, should be boosted, as some full-scale restart enterprises will not be able to return to their pre-epidemic levels because of insufficient orders, and industries such as catering and tourism, which are highly affected by the epidemic, will continue to face many difficulties.
另一方面要继续优化营商环境，提升政府诚信，增强民间投资信心，促进民间投资增长。
On the other hand, we should continue to optimize the business environment, enhance government integrity, enhance private investment confidence and promote the growth of private investment.
财政政策发力 加快改革护盘根据多数专家建议，由于疫情导致需求和供给同时下滑，宏观调控方面，应以财政政策为主，货币政策为辅。
Fiscal policy should accelerate the pace of reform According to most experts, as the epidemic led to a simultaneous decline in demand and supply, macroeconomic control should be primarily fiscal policy, monetary policy should be a supplement.
在具体财政政策选项上，比较多的意见集中在五个方面：一是加大减税降费力度、二是提高财政预算赤字率、三是大幅增加专项债券额度、四是发行特别国债，五是适度增加新基建等。
On specific fiscal policy options, more opinions focused on five areas: first, increasing tax cuts and lowering fees, second, increasing the rate of fiscal budget deficit, third, substantially increasing the amount of special bonds, fourth, issuing special government bonds and, fifthly, moderately increasing new infrastructure.
减税降费方面，为应对疫情影响，目前中央已推出多项有力措施。
In terms of tax reduction and reduction, the Central Government has put in place a number of strong measures to address the impact of the epidemic.
如：降低社保缴费方面，中国推出了阶段性减免企业社会保险费的政策，具体为：从2020年2月起，各省份可以对中小微企业的养老、失业、工伤保险的三项社保的单位缴费实行免征，免征的期限不超过5个月；湖北省可以将免征的范围扩大到各类参保企业；湖北以外的全国其他省份对大型企业等其他参保单位的三项社保单位缴费可减半征收，减征的期限不超过3个月；受疫情影响生产经营出现严重困难的企业可申请缓缴，缓缴的期限原则上不超过6个月。
Starting from February 2020, the provinces may exempt the three social security units of MSMEs from the payment of pension, unemployment and industrial injury insurance by half for a period not exceeding five months. Hubei province may extend the exemption to other participating enterprises for a period of not more than three months.
据税务总局初步估计，上述阶段性的减免社保费政策预计共可减少养老、失业、工伤三项社会保险企业缴费5000亿元以上，比去年较大幅度降低社保费率综合方案的力度还大，去年共计减少社保费4000多亿元。
According to preliminary estimates by the State Administration of Taxation, the above-mentioned phased reduction of social insurance premiums is expected to reduce the fees paid by three social insurance enterprises by more than 500 billion yuan, more than last year's sharp reduction in the overall social insurance premium rate, a total of more than 400 billion yuan.
为促进小微企业和个体工商户尽快复工复业，中国推出了增值税阶段性减免措施。
In order to promote the resumption of small and micro enterprises and individual businesses, China has introduced phased VAT relief measures.
具体为：自2020年3月1日至5月31日，对湖北省的小规模纳税人在三个月的时间内免征增值税，湖北省以外的小规模纳税人由现有的增值税征收率由3%减到1%。
From March 1 to May 31, 2020, small-scale taxpayers in Hubei Province will be exempted from VAT for three months, and those outside Hubei Province will have their VAT levy reduced from 3% to 1%.
小规模纳税人在现有增值税的纳税人里占的比重达80%以上，是一项普惠性的阶段性税收减免政策。
Small-scale taxpayers account for more than 80 per cent of the existing value-added tax payers, an inclusive and phased tax relief policy.
此外，为稳外贸，自2020年3月20日起，中国对除“两高一资”外所有未足额退税的产品及时足额退税，涉及瓷制卫生器具、物生长调节剂等1400余项产品。
In addition, in order to stabilize its foreign trade, since March 20, 2020, China will refund in full and on time all the products not refunded except for the "two high and one foreign capital," involving more than 1,400 products such as porcelain sanitary appliances and growth regulators.
下一步减税降费措施或将集中在稳就业、促销费和降低社保缴费等方面。
The next tax cuts could focus on stabilizing employment, promoting costs and lowering social security contributions.
中金公司首席经济学家梁红在3月9日发布的研报中认为，虽然疫情短期内带来各方面的负面冲击，但也不失为降低社保费率等中长期结构性改革的契机。
In a March 9 research paper, CICC chief economist Liang Hong said that while the short-term negative impact of the epidemic, but also to reduce social insurance rates and other medium- and long-term structural reform opportunities.
目前中国企业缴纳的基本养老保险费率为 16%，仍然高于10%的国际中位数水平，社保降费仍有空间。
At present, the basic old-age insurance premium rate paid by Chinese enterprises is 16%, still above the international median level of 10%.
进一步降低社保缴费率，将有助于减轻企业负担、增加企业盈余，同时在不增加杠杆率的情况下扩张消费和投资需求，在关键时期有助于增强实体经济抵御风险的能力、改善增长结构、扩大内需。
A further reduction in the social security contribution rate would help reduce the corporate burden and increase the corporate surplus, while expanding consumption and investment demand without increasing leverage, contributing to the real economy's resilience to risk, improving its growth structure and boosting domestic demand in a critical period.
邢自强认为，考虑到疫情大流行和全球衰退，中国有必要考虑推出新一轮的支持政策，如明显的提高财政赤字两个点左右，通过发专项债、特别国债融资等，筹集的资金用于退税、消费券、基建托底等方面，以保证企业的现金流不断，保证就业不出问题。
Xing believes that given the pandemic and the global recession, it is necessary for China to consider a new round of support policies, such as raising the fiscal deficit by two points or so, raising funds through issuing special debts, financing special bonds, etc., to guarantee the cash flow of enterprises and ensure that no problems occurred.
梁红预计，2020年一般公共预算赤字率可能从GDP的2.8%扩大至3%左右，在全球“抗疫”的特殊背景下，今年地方专项债的额度可能上升至3.5-4万亿元、甚或更高。
Liang predicted that the general public budget deficit could widen from 2.8% to about 3% of GDP in 2020, and that local debt could rise to 3.5-4 trillion yuan or more this year against the backdrop of the global epidemic.
中国财政科学研究院研究员赵全厚也向《财经》记者表示，考虑到当前经济形势，赤字率可以适当突破3%，地方政府专项债券额度可能达到4万亿元，较2019年2.15 万亿元的地方政府专项债券额度大幅提升。
Zhao Quanhou, a researcher at the China Institute of Fiscal Science, also told Caijing that given the current economic situation, the deficit ratio could reasonably exceed 3 percent, and that the local government bond quota could reach 4 trillion yuan, up from 2.15 trillion yuan in 2019.
基建建设方面，为稳投资、扩内需，2019年3月17日召开的国务院常务会议要求推进重大投资项目开复工，抓紧帮助解决各类所有制重大项目建设中的用工、原材料供应、资金、防疫物资保障等问题，推动各地1.1万个在建重点项目加快施工进度。
With a view to steady investment and expand domestic demand, the Standing Committee of the State Council held on 17 March 2019 called for the resumption of major investment projects and the urgent need to help solve the problems of employment, supply of raw materials, funds and epidemic prevention materials in the construction of major projects of various types, and accelerate the construction of 11,000 key projects under construction.
另外，要加快发行和使用按规定提前下达的地方政府专项债，抓紧下达中央预算内投资，督促加紧做好今年计划新开工的4000多个重点项目前期工作，加强后续项目储备。
In addition, we need to speed up the issuance and use of local government special debts issued in advance, accelerate the release of investment from the central budget, urge the government to speed up the pre-construction of over 4,000 key projects planned for this year, and strengthen the reserve of follow-up projects.
此外，会议要求对重大项目审批核准等开设绿色通道，尽快实现开工建设。
In addition, the meeting called for the opening of green corridors for major projects to be approved and built as soon as possible.
近期，“新基建”是热点话题，具体而言“新基建”是指5G基建、特高压、城际高速铁路和城际轨道交通、新能源汽车充电桩、大数据中心、人工智能、工业互联网等新型基础设施建设。
Recently, "new infrastructure" has become a hot topic. Specifically, "new infrastructure" refers to the construction of 5G infrastructure, ultra-high pressure, intercity high-speed railway and intercity rail transit, new energy vehicle charging piles, large data centers, artificial intelligence and industrial Internet.
李迅雷向《财经》记者表示，目前，通过传统基建和“新基建”投资拉动经济增长非常必要，但要关注投资效率问题，此外“新基建”不可能一蹴而就，目前其在投资中的比重在15%左右，不可能一下子提高到30%。
Li told Caijing that while it was necessary to boost economic growth through traditional infrastructure and "new infrastructure" investments, attention needed to be paid to the efficiency of investment. Moreover, "new infrastructure" could not be achieved overnight, and its current share of investment was around 15 per cent and could not be raised to 30 per cent overnight.
他强调，受多方面因素影响，当前财政收入下滑，近些年来财政收入也增长较低，即便提高赤字率、增加专项债券额度，政府新增基建投资的财力仍旧有限，因此，关键还是是要带动民间投资。
He stressed that due to various factors, the current fiscal revenue has declined, and in recent years the fiscal revenue has been low. Even with the increase in the deficit ratio and the increase in the amount of special bonds, the Government's financial resources for new infrastructure investment are still limited, so it is crucial to stimulate private investment.
赵全厚告诉《财经》记者，做“新基建”投资首先要分清政府和市场的边界，事实上“新基建”投资中很大一部分以由市场为主导，多数项目政府承担的是配套性基础设施建设。
Zhao Quan-hou told Caijing that the first step in making a "new infrastructure" investment is to clear the border between the government and the market. In fact, a large part of the "new infrastructure" investment is market-driven, with most project governments undertaking complementary infrastructure projects.
此外，他建议考虑到一些地方政府债务风险较高，可以考虑多做一些中央主导或与城镇化发展方向一致的与大都市圈发展相关的投资效率相对较高的项目，理论上讲这些地区预计更倾向于投资“新基建”项目。
In addition, he suggested that, in view of the high risk of some local government debt, consideration could be given to more centrally-led or more urban-sector-related investment-efficiency projects consistent with urbanization, which, in theory, are expected to invest more in "new infrastructure" projects.
李迅雷和赵全厚均认为推动经济增长根本还是要靠进一步加快改革开放的步伐，破除限制民营经济发展的一些垄断领域，消除“玻璃门”、“弹簧门”、“旋转门”，优化营商环境，提高政府的诚信意识和服务意识，激发市场活力。
Both Li and Zhao believe that the economic growth should be driven by further accelerating the pace of reform and opening-up, eliminating some monopoly areas that restrict the development of the private sector, eliminating "glass doors," "spring doors" and "revolving doors," optimizing the business environment, enhancing the government's sense of integrity and service, and stimulating market vitality.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫对策：中国可发力五大扩张性财政政策。
Anti-epidemic countermeasures: China can force five expansionary fiscal policies.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫对策：中国可发力五大扩张性财政政策";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; China's top five expansionary fiscal policies;;
var msg_desc = "进一步减税降费、提高赤字率至3%或3%以上、大幅提高地方政府专项债券额度、发行特别国债、大力推动“新基建”投资等五项扩张性财政政策呼声渐高，有望在更大范围和更高层面逐步形成共识";。
Five expansionary fiscal policies, including var msg _ desc = & quot; further tax cuts, a deficit rate of 3% or more, a sharp increase in local-government bond quotas, special government bonds, and a big push for "new infrastructure" investment are five expansionary fiscal policies that are expected to evolve at a broader and higher level.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
