独家 | 追查泉州坍塌酒店：谁为29条逝去的生命负责？。
Search Quanzhou's collapsed hotel: Who was responsible for 29 deaths?
黄姝静 俞琴。
NINNINGJING Yu Qin Huang.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
进一步调查发现，泉州坍塌酒店涉嫌“非法建设、违规改造”的背后，不动产权证办理、土地转性程序、旅馆业特种行业许可审批环节皆有漏洞文|《财经》记者黄姝静 俞琴 鲁伟编辑|鲁伟距离福建泉州欣佳酒店坍塌已过去15天。
Further investigation found that behind the alleged "illegal construction and irregular renovation" of Quanzhou Collapse Hotel, there were loopholes in real estate warrants, land conversion procedures, and licensing procedures for special industries in the hotel industry.
3月7日19:05，作为泉州市鲤城区新冠肺炎疫情隔离点的欣佳酒店发生严重坍塌事故，造成71人被困，另有9人自行逃生。
On March 7, at 19: 05, 71 people were trapped and nine others escaped when the Xinjia Hotel, a quarantine site for pneumonia in Lei Cheng, Quanzhou City, collapsed.
虽经各方面紧急救援，但最终共有29人在这次严重坍塌事故中丧生。
Despite immediate relief efforts, a total of 29 people were killed in the massive collapse.
近期随着相关调查推进，有关这座坍塌大楼非法建设、违规改造的诸多隐情陆续曝光。
With the recent progress of related investigations, the collapse of the building illegal construction, illegal reform of a number of revelations.
事故发生后，国务院安委会办公室第一时间派出由副主任付建华带队的工作组赶赴现场，指导协助地方开展救援处置工作。
After the accident, the Office of the Security Committee of the State Council dispatched a team led by deputy director Fu Jianhua to the scene to give guidance to the local rescue and disposal work.
3月12日11:04，现场找到了最后一名受困者，但已无生命体征。
On 12 March, at 11: 04, the last prisoner was found at the site, but there were no signs of life.
3月13日，国务院事故调查组发布初步调查结论：“项目未履行基本建设程序，无规划和施工许可，存在非法建设、违规改造等严重问题”，“地方相关职能部门监管不到位、‘打非治违’流于形式，导致安全关卡层层失效，最终酿成惨烈事故”。
On March 13, the Accident Investigation Group of the State Council issued its preliminary findings: "The project did not fulfill the capital procedures, no planning and construction permission, there were serious problems such as illegal construction and renovation."
那么，这个在当地看起来普通的欣佳酒店，究竟僭越了哪些“基本建设程序”，“非法建设”具体涉及哪些问题？《财经》记者独家获悉：欣佳酒店的不动产权证存在明显问题，产权证上的使用面积远大于宗地面积，前者是后者的十倍之多，针对这个“疏漏”，不仅土地方面的专家直言“有问题”，当地不动产登记中心有关人士回应《财经》的问询时也表示惊讶。
However, Caijing Hotels, which looks like an ordinary local hotel, has encroached on some of the "capital procedures" and "illegal construction.The issue of property rights in Xinjia Hotel is obviously problematic, and the use of property rights certificates is far greater than that of residential areas, according to Caijing.
相关不动产权证还显示，欣佳酒店所在地块为国有土地，这与此前当地有关人士所称地块为集体土地的说法并不一致。
The title also shows that Xinjia Hotel is located on state-owned land, which is inconsistent with previous claims by local people that plots of land are collective land.
这块土地究竟是如何从集体变为国有，据悉，调查组目前尚未查到本应依法留存的相关材料。
How this land actually changed from collective to state-owned, it is reported that the investigation team has not been able to find the relevant materials should be retained by law.
《财经》记者还了解到，欣佳酒店疑似在消防安全检查并未合格的情况下，就“提前”获得了《特种行业经营许可证》，涉嫌违反“开办宾馆的审批流程”。
Caijing also learned that Xinjia Hotel suspected of not passing the fire safety inspection, "ahead of time" obtained a "special business operation license," suspected of violating "the approval process of opening a hotel."
据《财经》此前披露，欣佳酒店所在大楼的业主已被公安部门控制，其与酒店经营者杨金锵为同一人。
According to Caijing, the owner of the building where Xinjia Hotel is located has been controlled by the public security department and is the same person as hotel operator Yang Jinqiang.
杨金锵在上世纪90年代就建起别墅，被与其打过交道的人士评价“很厉害”。
Mr Yang, who built his villa in the 1990s, has been "badly rated" by people with whom he has dealt.
杨金锵本人早年曾卷入当地土地拆迁的系列腐败窝案，欣佳酒店开业不久就被三次行政处罚。
Yang Jinqiang himself was involved in the early years of the local land demolition series of corruption nest, Xinjia Hotel was opened soon after the three administrative sanctions.
疫情防控期间，各地酒店纷纷关门，欣佳酒店是如何成为疫情防控集中隔离点的？欣佳酒店多次违规改造，且坍塌前已现坍塌征兆，地方相关职能部门监管何在？这些公众极为关注的谜团，有望陆续揭蛊。
During the period of epidemic prevention and control, hotels were closed all over the place. How did Xinjia Hotel become a centralized quarantine point for the prevention and control of the epidemic?
问题产权证：伪造还是疏漏？公开信息显示，出事前欣佳酒店的经营者为杨金锵，杨亦为酒店所在大楼的业主。
Problem property right certificate: Forgery or omission? Open information shows that the operator of Xinjia Hotel is Yang Jinqiang, Yang is the owner of the building where the hotel is located.
根据官方通报，坍塌的大楼建设于2013年，主体7层，每层1000平方米，楼高22米，为钢结构建筑物。
According to official reports, the collapsed building was built in 2013 on the 7th floor, 1,000 square metres per floor and 22 metres high in steel structures.
2018年改造为欣佳酒店，并于同年6月开业，酒店有各类客房共计66间。
The hotel was converted into Xinjia Hotel in 2018 and opened in June of the same year. The hotel has a total of 66 rooms.
此前曾有很多人追问：“欣佳酒店装修改造是否违规”、“是否属于违法建筑”。
Many people have asked before: "Xinjia hotel renovation is illegal", "whether it is illegal construction."
而根据调查组的初步结论，坍塌的大楼确实“存在非法建设、违规改造等严重问题”。
According to the preliminary findings of the investigation team, the collapse of the building is indeed "illegal construction, reform and other serious problems."
《财经》记者近日获得的一份明显存在问题的不动产权证，可视为欣佳酒店被指非法建设的一个重要证据。
Caijing recently obtained a clearly problematic real estate title can be seen as an important piece of evidence that Xinjia Hotels has been accused of illegal construction.
这份“闽（2018）泉州市不动产权第0017128号”显示，权利人：泉州市新星机电工贸有限公司（法定代表人杨金锵，下称泉州新星机电公司）；坐落：泉州市鲤城区江南街道上村社区；权利类型：国有建设用地使用权/房屋所有权；权利性质：出让/自建房；用途：商业；产权证上盖有鲤城区欣佳旅馆（即欣佳酒店）公章。
This "Fujian (2018) Quanzhou City Real Estate No. 0017128" shows that the owner: Quanzhou New Star Electrical and Mechanical Services Co. Ltd. (legal representative Yang Jinqiang, Quanzhou New Star Electromechanical Co.).
产权证显示，欣佳宾馆所在大楼的宗地面积与独用土地使用权面积并不相符，前者为3363.3平方米，后者为33633平方米，后者为前者的十倍。
According to the title certificate, the residential area of the building where Xinjia Hotel is located does not correspond to the area of use of the exclusive land, which is 3363.3 square metres for the former and 33,633 square metres for the latter, which is ten times the former.
这是因为遗漏了小数点，还是有意为之，目前《财经》未收到有关方面的回应。
Whether the decimal point was omitted or deliberately made, Caijing has yet to receive a response.
所谓宗地面积，是指地块的总面积，而独用土地使用权面积包含在宗地面积内。
The so-called residential area refers to the total area of the plot, and the exclusive land use right area is included in the residential area.
北京市房地产法学会副会长兼秘书长、首都经济贸易大学教授赵秀池接受《财经》记者采访时“怀疑这个证有问题”，原因在于，宗地面积只能大于或等于独用土地使用权面积，但不会小于独用土地使用权面积。
Zhao Xiuchi, vice-president and secretary-general of the Beijing Real Estate Law Society and a professor at the Capital Economics and Trade University, told Caijing that the certificate was "questionable" because the area of land under exclusive use can only be greater or equal to that of land under exclusive use, but not smaller than that of sole-use land.
“如果一宗土地没有共有人，那么独用土地使用权面积应当与宗地面积相等；如果有共有人，那么其独用土地使用权面积应该小于宗地面积。
"If there is no co-owner of a piece of land, the area of exclusive use should be equal to the area of the sui generis land; if there are co-owners, the area of use of the exclusive land should be smaller than the area of the dwelling.
”北京市才良律师事务主任王才亮持类似观点，他对《财经》记者表示，宗地有可能还包含了与别人共有的土地。
Wang Chao, director of Beijing's Caijing Talent & Legal Affairs Department, took a similar view, telling Caijing that Zongdi might also include land shared with other people.
因此独用土地使用权面积一般会小于宗地面积，至少不会大于宗地面积。
Therefore, the area of land use right for exclusive use will be smaller than the residential area, at least not larger than the residential area.
《财经》记者注意到，前述不动产权证上的“共有情况”显示为空白，这意味着，土地并无共有人，即宗地面积应与独用土地使用权面积相等。
The Caijing reporter noted that the "communal situation" on the aforementioned real estate title certificate shows a blank, which means that there is no co-owner of the land, i.e. the area of the land should be equal to that of the exclusive use of the land.
“一看到这个产权证，我就发现有问题。
"When I saw this title certificate, I saw something wrong.
”有“拆迁法专家”之称的王才亮对《财经》记者表示。
Wang Cailiang, known as an expert on demolition law, told Caijing.
有业内人士认为，上述问题产权证存在两种可能：第一，产权证涉嫌造假；第二，产权证为“真”证件，但办理程序存在瑕疵，极有可能存在“内外勾结”的情况。
Some insiders believe that there are two possible problems with the title certificate: first, the title certificate is suspected of counterfeiting; and second, the title certificate is a "true" document, but the process is flawed and there is a high probability of "collusion."
该人士补充称，在第二种可能性中，很可能是故意漏掉小数点，将3363.3平方米写为33633平方米，这样一来权利人将来即可以此为据，将周围的土地“吃”进来，倘若遇到拆迁征收，还可以谋取更大的利益。
The person added that in the second scenario, the decimal point would most likely have been deliberately omitted, with 3363.3 square metres being recorded as 33633 square metres, which would then allow the entitled person to "eat" the surrounding land and obtain greater benefits in the event of eviction and expropriation.
王才亮向《财经》记者表示，他曾遇到过数起产权证上“数字标错”、“内外勾结”的案例。
Wang told Caijing that he had encountered several cases of "mislabeling numbers" and "collusion" on property rights certificates.
他举例称，在一起案件中，当事人搭起部分临时建筑，在仅有5层楼房屋面积的情况下，却办理了涵盖6层楼的不动产权证。
He gave the example of a case in which the person concerned had built part of a temporary building and had issued a title to real property covering six floors in the case of a five-storey house.
事实上，该临时建筑部分并未达到可验收标准。
In fact, the temporary building portion did not meet the acceptance criteria.
据当地有关部门查处结果，前述产权证办理过程存在内外勾结的情节，办证人员也被查处。
According to the results of the local authorities concerned, the aforementioned property rights certificate processing process has internal and external collusion in the plot, the office personnel were also investigated and punished.
3月20日《财经》记者致电泉州市不动产登记中心，该中心一位工作人员对产权证上独用土地使用权面积为宗地面积十倍一事表示惊讶，“怎么可能呢？使用面积怎么会超过宗地面积？”这位在泉州市不动产登记中心工作多年的人士表示，产权证的独用土地使用权面积超过宗地面积的情况，自己从没见过。
A staff member of Caijing called the Quanzhou Real Estate Registration Center on March 20 to express surprise at the 10-fold increase in the area of exclusive use of land on a title certificate. "How could this be possible?" the Quanzhou Real Estate Registration Center said, adding that he had never seen a single land use right exceeding the residential area.
但他也补充称，不排除存在特殊情况，如果系统里有档案，那么这个产权证就是有效的，“以实际情况为准”。
However, he added that it was not ruled out that there were special circumstances and that if there were files in the system, the title certificate would be valid and "subject to the facts."
但是，这名工作人员拒绝辅助查询产权证的真伪。
However, the staff member refused to assist in the search for the authenticity of the certificate.
他表示，只有本人才能查询相关资料。
He said that only I could consult the relevant information.
比如，当租赁房子时，租客可以要求房东陪同到不动产登记中心查询档案，以确认产权证真伪。
For example, when renting a house, the tenant may request the landlord to accompany him to the real estate registry to check the file to confirm the authenticity of the title certificate.
关于欣佳宾馆产权证是否属于伪造的问题，3月18日晚，泉州市鲤城区委宣传部相关人员向《财经》记者表示，“这个要通过调查组了解才会清楚”，“目前都以调查组为主导，我们相关部门按要求配合”。
On the night of March 18, officials from the publicity department of the Lei City Commission of Quanzhou City told Caijing that "this will only be clear through the investigation team," and that "the investigation team is leading the investigation team and our relevant departments cooperate as required."
土地性质争议：集体如何变身国有？欣佳酒店的登记地址为泉州市鲤城区常泰街道上村社区南环路1688号。
The registration address of Xinjia Hotel is 1688 South Ring Road, Shangcun Street, Changtai Street, Lei Cheng, Quanzhou City.
关于欣佳酒店所在的这块土地，杨金锵曾向一位入驻该大楼的合作伙伴提及，这是杨所在村子的土地，并表示当时还涉及一些纠纷，但并未明说是何纠纷。
Yang Jinqiang, who spoke to a partner in the building about the land in Yang's village, said there were some disputes, but did not specify what the dispute was.
3月13日，新京报《紧急呼叫》栏目报道称，事发地原为村集体土地，杨金锵在2010年前后，获得了部分用地。
March 13, the Beijing News "Emergency Call" column reported that the incident was originally a village collective land, Yang Jinqiang around 2010, obtained part of the land.
欣佳酒店所在地块性质到底是什么？多位当地村民及《财经》记者此前了解的信息是，欣佳酒店所在土地是集体用地，但前述不动产权证显示的地块性质为国有建设用地。
Local villagers and Caijing News had previously been informed that the land on which Xinjia Hotel is located is a collective site, but the nature of the plots shown in the title deed is state-owned.
据“上游新闻”报道，2011年杨金锵在办理土地证的时候，需要一份已给予村民集体组织土地补偿款的证明，尽管社区在这份证明上盖了章，但是上村社区新宅村的村民却没有这笔补偿款的任何转账记录。
According to Upstream News, in 2011, Yang Jinqiang was required to obtain a certificate of compensation for land that had been given to villagers for collective organization, even though the community affixed its seal to the certificate, but the villagers of the new house in the Shangcun community had no record of any transfer of this compensation.
而这块土地是属于新宅村民的集体土地，土地性质从未发生变更，没收到补偿的村民们认为，土地仍然属于新宅村村集体所有。
But this land belongs to the new homestead collective land, the nature of the land has never changed, the villagers who have not received compensation believe that the land still belongs to the new house village collective ownership.
根据《土地管理法》规定，集体土地转为国有土地，应当依法经过土地征收程序。
According to the Law on Land Management, the conversion of collective land to State-owned land shall go through land acquisition procedures according to law.
其中包括政府批准、发布征收公告、拆迁补偿安置的确定等一系列复杂的流程。
It includes a series of complicated processes such as government approval, announcement of expropriation, and determination of relocation compensation and resettlement.
王才亮表示，欣佳酒店所在的地块原本是个村办农场，应是集体土地，那么这块地从集体土地转为国有土地，程序上是必须由原土地所有人村委会批准才可能完成。
Wang Cailiang said that the site of Xinjia Hotel was originally a village farm, should be collective land, then this land from collective land to state-owned land, the process is only possible with the approval of the original Landowners Village Committee.
3月19日，《财经》记者向上村社区党支部书记杨金伟询问欣佳酒店所在的地块性质及变更过程。
On March 19, Caijing reporter Yang Jinwei, the secretary of Shangyun Community Party Branch, asked Xinjia Hotel about the nature of the site and the process of change.
杨金伟表示，杨金锵获得土地时，他并不在任上，因此不清楚具体情况。
Mr Yang said he was not in office when Mr Yang obtained the land, so it was unclear.
欣佳酒店所在地块，如何由集体土地摇身一变为国有建设用地？接近调查组的人士表示，调查组目前获得的材料中亦包括欣佳酒店的国有土地建设用地使用权证。
How did the site of Xinjia Hotel change from a collective site to a state-owned one? People close to the investigation team said the materials currently available to the investigation team also included land use warrants for the construction of state-owned land at Shing Ka Hotel.
但这块土地以何种程序从集体土地变为国有土地，调查组至今未能掌握相关材料。
However, the investigation team has so far been unable to obtain information on the process by which this land was converted from collective to State land.
3月20日，《财经》记者致电泉州市自然资源和规划局办公室，询问欣佳酒店所在地块由集体土地变更为国有土地的具体流程、确认当前该地块的具体性质时，接听电话的工作人员表示，不清楚此事，需要“问一下主任”。
On March 20, Caijing called the office of Quanzhou Natural Resources and Planning Bureau to inquire about the specific process of changing the site of Xinjia Hotel from collective to state-owned land.
片刻之后，这名工作人员表示，主任以及领导都出去开会了，“我是新来的，也不懂这些东西，没办法给您答复。
Moments later, the staff member said that the director and the leader had gone out to a meeting. "I'm new here and I don't know what to say to you.
”同一天，《财经》记者联系了泉州市自然资源和规划局用地规划管理科，工作人员称，她需要询问科长后，再向记者答复。
On the same day, Caijing contacted the Land Planning Management Section of the Quanzhou Natural Resources and Planning Bureau, and staff said she needed to consult the section chief before replying to reporters.
不过，截至发稿前，《财经》记者都未接到回复。
However, Caijing did not receive a reply by the time of writing.
此后《财经》记者在工作时间多次拔打用地规划管理科电话，均无人接听。
Since then, Caijing journalists have repeatedly dialed the telephone number of the Land Use Planning Management Section during working hours.
审批程序存疑：“提前”获得经营许可证？能够成为泉州市鲤城区指定的新冠肺炎疫情隔离点，一般而言酒店在当地的名声与口碑不会太差，但据当地知情人士称，这个欣佳酒店自营业以来可谓“劣迹斑斑”，相关公开信息亦显示：短短一年多的时间里，该酒店多次被行政处罚。
The hotel's reputation and reputation in the area are generally not so bad, but since it opened, the hotel has had a "bad track record" and public information indicates it has been administratively sanctioned several times in just over a year, according to local sources.
2018年11月16日，欣佳酒店因未按规定办理住宿登记，被泉州市公安局鲤城分局责令立即整改，并对该酒店处以警告并处罚款3000元。
On 16 November 2018, the Xinjia Hotel was ordered to undergo immediate rectification by the Lei Cheng Branch of Quanzhou Public Security Bureau for failing to register as required, and was given a warning and fined 3,000 yuan.
同日（2018年11月16日），酒店还因未执行住宿登记制度被警告并罚款3000元。
On the same day (November 16, 2018), the hotel was also warned and fined 3,000 yuan for failing to comply with the residence registration system.
2019年12月4日，欣佳酒店再次因“未按规定办理住宿登记”被泉州市公安局鲤城分局责令立即整改，并对该酒店处以警告并处罚款3000元。
On December 4, 2019, Xinjia Hotel was ordered to rectify immediately by the Lei Cheng branch of Quanzhou Public Security Bureau for "failing to register accommodation as required." The hotel was given a warning and fined 3,000 yuan.
2019年7月17日，欣佳酒店因未按照《个体工商户年度报告办法》规定报送年度报告，被泉州市工商行政管理局鲤城分局列入经营异常名录。
On 17 July 2019, Xinjia Hotel was listed as an abnormal operation by the Lei City Branch of the Quanzhou City Administration for Industry and Commerce for failing to submit an annual report as required by the Annual Report on Individual Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
有分析人士指出，欣佳酒店2018年11月16日首次被公安机关处罚，这意味着在那时就已与有关部门信息共享了，也意味着在那时该酒店就已经获得了《旅馆业特种行业许可证》。
Analysts said the hotel was first punished by the public security authorities on November 16, 2018, meaning it had shared information with authorities at the time, meaning the hotel had already won a hotel specialty license by then.
有消息称，欣佳酒店早在2018年6月之前就拿到了《特种行业经营许可证》。
It is reported that Xinjia Hotel as early as June 2018 before the "Special Industry Business License."
按照开办宾馆的审批流程，在申办《特种行业许可证》时，酒店经营者必须出具一系列证明文件，其中很重要的一项就是消防安全检查手续。
According to the approval procedure for opening a hotel, when applying for a special business license, the hotel operator must issue a series of certificates, among which the important one is the fire control safety inspection formalities.
但《财经》记者此前获得的一份《建设工程竣工验收消防备案复查意见书》显示，欣佳酒店曾经有一次“竣工验收消防备案检查不合格”的记录，并于2019年1月15日申请复查，直到2019年1月22日才被评定为“消防复查合格”。
However, Caijing News had previously obtained a "construction project acceptance fire record review report," the Xinjia Hotel had a "completed acceptance inspection of the record of the fire record," and on 15 January 2019, applied for a review, until 22 January 2019 was rated as "fire review qualified."
欣佳酒店在《建设工程竣工验收消防备案复查意见书》之外，是否另有消防安全检查手续？如果没有，佳欣酒店何以能“突破”福建《特种行业和娱乐服务场所审批备案工作规范》，在“消防复查合格”之前就提前获得《特种行业经营许可证》？根据前述产权证明，欣佳酒店的权利人为泉州新星机电公司，该公司成立于2006年2月17日，注册和实缴资本均为330万元人民币，实际控制人为杨金锵，占股90.91%。
If not, how can Jiaxin Hotel break through Fujian's Standard for Examination and Archiving of Special Industry and Entertainment Service Sites and obtain the Special Industry Operation License in advance before the "qualified fire review"? According to the aforesaid property rights certificate, Xinjia Hotel is founded on February 17, 2006 with both registered and paid-in capital of 3.3 million RMB.
该公司经营范围为销售机电设备、电子产品、建筑材料、五金、百货；生产、加工机械配件等。
The company's business scope for the sale of mechanical and electrical equipment, electronic products, building materials, hardware, department stores; production, processing machinery and other accessories.
2006年8月3日，泉州市国土资源局就违法占地建简易厂房对泉州新星机电公司做出处罚，责令退地，限期拆除。
On 3 August 2006, the State Land Resources Bureau of Quanzhou City imposed penalties on Quanzhou New Star Electrical and Mechanical Company for the illegal occupation of land and ordered it to be demolished within a certain period of time.
但“暂无从知晓泉州新星机电公司当年违规占用了哪一处土地。
But "there is no way to know which land Quanzhou New Star electromechanical company illegally occupied that year.
”杨金锵其人：曾卷入腐败窝案欣佳酒店倒塌事件发生以来，《财经》记者多次拨打杨金锵的电话，但一直无人接听。
Yang Jinqiang: Ever since the collapse of the Xinjia Hotel, Caijing journalists have repeatedly called Yang Jinqiang, but no one has answered.
一位与杨金锵打过交道的人士对《财经》记者回忆，杨金锵的家就位于事发建筑背后的村子里，是一栋二层半的别墅，建于上世纪90年代，院落宽敞，在周围建筑的映衬下较为显眼。
Mr. Yang's home is in the village behind the building, a two-and-a-half-story villa built in the 1990s that stands out against the surrounding buildings, a person who has dealt with Mr Yang told Caijing.
“上世纪90年代就有别墅的人，那肯定很厉害。
"People had villas in the 1990s, and that must have been pretty good.
”这位人士评价杨金锵时称，杨是一个出色的生意人。
Yang Jinqiang, the person said, was a good businessman.
根据可查询到的当地公开信息，这位当地人眼里“很厉害”的杨金锵，其实很早以前就曾卷入当地颇具影响的泉三高速公路鲤城段征地拆迁系列腐败案。
According to the local public information available, the "very strong" Yang Jinqiang, in fact has long been involved in the local influential Quan San Highway Lei section of the demolition of the series of corruption cases.
《泉州晚报》2010年发表一篇题为《泉三高速公路鲤城段征地拆迁系列腐败案审结》的报道，报道称系列腐败案中的第三起典型虚构拆迁补偿案发生在鲤城常泰街道上村社区杨某父子身上。
The Quanzhou Evening News published a report in 2010 entitled "Conviction of a series of corruption cases in the Lei Cheng section of the Spring Three Highways," which reported that the third typical case of a series of corruption cases occurred in the village community of Yangmou son and Yang Changtai Street.
上述文章称，2005年年底，泉三高速公路需征迁某部队营区土地12.8亩及营区内的建筑及附属物。
According to the above-mentioned article, at the end of 2005, the Quan San Expressway will require the relocation of 12.8 acres of land and buildings and accessories in the camp.
承租该营区的上村社区居民杨某父子与鲤城区房屋拆迁公司原经理蔡某共谋，采取虚增拆迁营房附属物数量和项目的手段，骗取国家拆迁补偿款37万多元。
Yangmou and Cai Mou, the former manager of the house demolition company of Yicheng District, who rent the camp, defrauded the state of more than 370,000 yuan in compensation for demolition by using the means of inflating the number of annexes and items of the barracks.
之后，杨某父子再次与蔡某捏造营房原有电缆等配电设备被拆除未得到补偿一事，骗取国家拆迁补偿款56万多元，事后蔡某从中分得10万元。
After that, Yang and his son fabricated camp original cable and other electrical distribution equipment was dismantled without compensation, defrauded the state demolition compensation of more than 560,000 yuan, Cai Mou after the allocation of 100,000 yuan.
该案给国家造成了巨额损失。
The case caused huge losses to the country.
另据《南方周末》报道，多位上村人士表示，上述杨某即指向杨金锵家族。
According to Southern Weekend, a number of people in the village said that the above-mentioned Yang Jinqiang family.
近年来，除了欣佳酒店及泉州新星机电公司被罚之外，杨金锵本人也曾卷入司法纠纷。
In recent years, in addition to Xinjia Hotel and Quanzhou New Star electromechanical company was fined, Yang Jinqiang himself has been involved in judicial disputes.
2017年，杨金锵曾以保证人身份被卷入一起金融借款纠纷，成为案件的被告之一。
In 2017, Yang Jinqiang was involved as a surety in a financial borrowing dispute and became one of the defendants in the case.
相关司法材料显示，被告谢某某因未能按时向厦门银行泉州分行归还借款，被后者诉至法庭。
The relevant judicial materials show that the defendant Xie Xie failed to return the loan to Xiamen bank Quanzhou branch on time, the latter was sued by the court.
福建省泉州市丰泽区人民法院一审判决被告谢某某需向原告偿还借款本金272092.22元、利息12056.24元、罚息652.92元、复利320.44元。
The People's Court of Fengze District, Quanzhou City, Fujian Province, ruled that defendant Xie must repay to the plaintiff the principal of the loan of 272092.22 yuan, interest of 12056.24 yuan, penalty interest of 652.92 yuan and compound interest of 320.44 yuan.
杨金锵及其他被告对谢某某的前述债务向原告承担连带保证责任，并在承担了保证责任后，有权向被告谢某某追偿。
Yang Jinqiang and other defendants are jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff for the aforesaid debts of Xie and have the right to thank the defendant for the repayment after assuming the responsibility of suretyship.
前述与杨金锵打过交道的人士表示，初次接触杨金锵是在2013年，当时汽车销售行业正处高峰期，他打算租个店面做汽车销售生意，而事发建筑正好张贴出了招租启示。
Mr. Yang's first contact with Mr. Yang came in 2013, at the height of the auto-sales business, when he planned to rent a storefront to sell cars, and the building had posted a notice to hire, according to people who have dealt with Mr. Yang.
杨金锵在自己的别墅里展示了事发建筑的规划图，并表示，为了建这栋7层楼的房子，还向银行贷了款。
Yang Jinqiang showed a plan of the building in his villa and said he had borrowed money from the bank to build the seven-storey house.
“能贷款，肯定不可能是违建。
"Being able to borrow money is definitely not a breach of contract.
”这位人士称。
"said the man.
这位人士回忆，2017年，杨金锵开始在楼上装修欣佳酒店，运送建筑材料，要从公司店面一侧的电梯上去，“对我的影响比较大”。
In 2017, Mr. Yang began to decorate the Xinjia hotel upstairs and deliver building materials to the elevator on the side of the company's storefront, 'which had a big impact on me,' the person recalled.
这位人士曾就此和杨金锵沟通，对方让其进行评估后给出一个赔偿方案。
This person has communicated with Yang Jinqiang about this, the other side lets it undertake appraisal to give a compensation plan.
但杨金锵最终不认可赔偿方案，加之酒店装修期间“爆了五六块玻璃”，2017年底，这位人士将公司搬离大楼。
But Mr. Yang ultimately did not approve the compensation package, and the hotel decoration period "exploded five or six pieces of glass", the person will move the company from the building at the end of 2017.
3月7日，在得知酒店大楼发生坍塌事故后，这位人士表示此前就有征兆，他对坍塌并不感到意外，只不过，“搬走时没想到会这么严重。
On March 7, after learning of the collapse of the hotel building, the person said he had been surprised by the collapse, but "did not expect it to be so serious when moved."
”3月13日，欣佳酒店坍塌事故调查组第一次全体会议在福建泉州召开，国务院安委会办公室副主任、事故调查组组长付建华主持。
On March 13, the first plenary session of the investigation group on the collapse of the Xinjia Hotel was held in Quanzhou, Fujian Province.
会议指出，事故发生在全国上下全力抗击疫情和复产复工的关键时期，事发酒店还是地方政府指定的医学隔离观察点，性质严重、影响恶劣。
The meeting pointed out that the accident occurred in the whole country to fight the epidemic and resume work at a critical period, the hotel is designated by the local government medical isolation observation point, serious nature, bad impact.
“重点查清非法建设和违规改造问题，查清欣佳酒店违规经营和为何被选定医学隔离观察点问题，查清有关部门的失职、渎职问题。
"Focus on the investigation of illegal construction and illegal renovation, investigate the illegal operation of Xinjia Hotel and why it was selected to observe the medical isolation points, and investigate the negligence, malfeasance of the relevant departments.
”相关阅读：追查泉州坍塌酒店：违法建设、违规改建之祸追问泉州坍塌酒店：装修改造是否违规？为何成为疫情隔离点？航拍泉州疫情隔离酒店坍塌现场：40余人生还，知情人披露前情后果【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Follow-up Quanzhou Hotel: Illegal Construction, Irregularities in the Reconstruction Follow-up Quanzhou Collapse Hotel: Is the renovation illegal? Why is it an epidemic quarantine point? Aerial shooting Quanzhou epidemic quarantine hotel collapse site: more than 40 lives disclosed information consequences.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
独家 | 追查泉州坍塌酒店：谁为29条逝去的生命负责？。
Search Quanzhou's collapsed hotel: Who was responsible for 29 deaths?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "独家 | 追查泉州坍塌酒店：谁为29条逝去的生命负责？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; Who was responsible for 29 lost lives?;
var msg_desc = "进一步调查发现，泉州坍塌酒店涉嫌“非法建设、违规改造”的背后，不动产权证办理、土地转性程序、旅馆业特种行业许可审批环节皆有漏洞";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
title: '追查泉州坍塌酒店：违法建设、违规改建之祸',。
AT & quanzhou's collapsed hotel: illegal construction, malpractice and reconstruction.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '追问泉州坍塌酒店：装修改造是否违规？为何成为疫情隔离点？',。
Inquiry Quanzhou Hotel: Was the renovation illegal? Why did it become an epidemic quarantine? & amp; apos;?
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '航拍泉州疫情隔离酒店坍塌现场：40余人生还，知情人披露前情后果',。
Aerial photo taken of Quanzhou's epidemic quarantine hotel collapse: More than 40 people survived and were told by AT & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & apos;
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
