触目惊心的中国野生动物黑市。
A terrifying black market in Chinese wildlife.
章轲。
Ke Ke.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
28.01.2020本文字数：3728，阅读时长大约7分钟导读：在森林公安的案件库里，被列为“大案要案”每年就有数十起。
In the case library of forest public security, there are dozens of cases listed as "high priority cases" each year.
从事野生动物非法猎捕、运输、买卖的犯罪分子，大多形成了地下交易黑色链条。
Criminals engaged in illegal hunting, transporting and buying and selling of wildlife have mostly formed black chains in underground transactions.
作者 | 第一财经章轲武汉爆发新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情之后，我国捕食野生动物的状况受到社会各界越来越多的关注。
Following the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, a new type of coronavirus infection, the situation of predator animals in China has attracted increasing attention from the community.
让我们来看几组触目惊心的数字：2018年7月，江西省森林公安破获有史以来最大一起贩卖野生动物案，涉案动物17000余只！包括赤麂、河麂等省级和国家级保护动物，销售网络覆盖全国15个省份。
In July 2018, the Jiangxi Province Forest Public Security cracked the biggest-ever case of wildlife trafficking involving more than 17,000 animals, including Red Muntjac, Red Muntjac, and other provincial and national protection animals.
2018年11月，湖南省森林公安局通报，特大非法收购、运输、出售珍贵、濒危野生动物及其制品案告破，收缴穿山甲216只，129人被拘，这是湖南破获迄今全国数量最大的穿山甲案。
In November 2018, the Hunan Forest and Public Security Bureau announced that the extremely large illegal purchase, transportation and sale of precious and endangered wildlife and their products had been solved, and 216 pangolins and 129 people had been detained, the biggest case of pangolin in Hunan Province to date.
2018年12月，吉林省森林公安局森林案件侦查直属分局公安人员在通化市辉南县朝阳镇一商铺内查获野生动物死体4857只，包括国家二级保护动物猫头鹰、花尾榛鸡，国家三级保护动物山雀、狍子、松鸭、野兔等。
In December 2018, public security officers of the Forest Case Investigation Subdirectorate of the Forest Public Security Bureau of Jilin Province discovered 4,857 dead wild animals in a shop in Chaoyang Town, Huinan County, Tonghua City.
……这些仅是中国野生动物消费市场的冰山一角。
These are just the tip of the iceberg in China's wildlife consumer market.
在森林公安的案件库里，被列为“大案要案”的每年就有数十起。
In the case libraries of forest public security, dozens of cases are listed as "major cases" each year.
从事野生动物非法猎捕、运输、买卖的，大多形成了地下交易黑色链条，大量的“野味”最终被摆上国人餐桌。
Most of those engaged in illegal hunting, transporting and trading in wild animals form underground trading chains, and a large number of "game" is eventually put on the Chinese table.
原国家林业局有关负责人曾表示，“到目前还没有准确、权威的数据表明中国是最大的野生动物消费国。
"There is no accurate, authoritative data on China being the biggest consumer of wildlife," said the former head of the State Forestry Administration.
”但中国野生动物产品消费和贸易量巨大的事实，是不容回避的。
But the fact that China consumes and trades vast quantities of wildlife products cannot be avoided.
野生动物捕杀交易网密布江西省森林公安公布的上述贩卖野生动物案中，货主从江西境内一新余男子处无证收购运往湖南省张家界市加工成腊味出售，利润可以翻番。
Wild Animal Husbandry Technique The above-mentioned case of wildlife trafficking announced by Jiangxi Forest Public Security shows that the profits can be doubled when a new man from Jiangxi is bought without a license and shipped to Zhangjiajie in Hunan Province to be processed into bacon for sale.
经专案组调查，这是一张遍布全国15个省市区、江西11个地市30多个县的非法猎捕、收购、运输、出售野生动物的犯罪网络。
It is a criminal network that illegally hunts, buys, transports and sells wild animals in more than 30 counties across 15 provinces and municipalities and 11 prefectures and cities in Jiangxi.
犯罪嫌疑人人员众多、身份复杂，有农民、工人、企业主、学生，甚至还有多名铁路货运部门物流管理人员允许不法分子穿铁路工作服自由出入货运场所，将大量野生动物通过物流渠道非法发到全国各地。
Suspects are numerous and complex, ranging from farmers, workers, business owners, students, and even railway freight department logistics managers, who allow unscrupulous individuals to travel freely through rail working clothes to and from freight forwarding sites, illegally distributing large numbers of wild animals throughout the country through logistics channels.
此外，有当地野生动物保护管理部门工作人员也为不法分子非法开具运输证明文件，充当保护伞，为犯罪活动提供便利。
In addition, staff of local wildlife protection and management departments have issued illegal transport documents for illegal elements to act as umbrellas to facilitate criminal activities.
▲1.7万只！江西办史上最大贩卖野生动物案猎物现场。
Seventeen thousand! Jiangxi Office in the history of the largest wildlife crime scene.
资料来源：森林公安在湖南省邵阳市城步县，同样有一条非法猎捕、收购、贩卖、加工野生动物的完整产业链条。
Source: Forest Public Security In Shaoyang City, Hunan Province, there is also a whole industrial chain illegally hunting, buying, selling and processing wild animals.
当地森林公安介绍，违法犯罪团伙捕杀交易蛇类、猪獾、果子狸等野生动物，查证涉案资金达300余万元，涉案人员涵盖猎户、商贩、运输从业者、经销商、规模酒店及餐饮店从业人员等，犯罪足迹遍布邵阳、娄底、岳阳、长沙等地。
Illegal criminal gangs have arrested and killed wild animals such as snakes, badgers and beavers, which involved hunters, traders, transport operators, dealers, large-scale hotels and restaurants, with criminal footprints in Shaoyang, Loudi, Yueyang and Changsha, local forest police said.
在湖南临湘市，森林公安发现，盗猎团伙在短短的40天内，捕售的野鸟就多达50万只。
In Linxiang, Hunan, forest police found that poachers can sell as many as 500,000 wild birds in just 40 days.
2018年，当地森林公安人员发现，在一大片僻静隐蔽的空地上，散布着38个喂养鸟类的大棚。
In 2018, local forest police found 38 bird-feeding sheds scattered across a vast, secluded clearing.
走进棚内，黑压压的一片全是关在笼子里的野生鸟类活体，地上还散落着大量小型鸟类死体。
Entering the shed, the darkness is filled with caged wild birds alive, and the ground is littered with small dead birds.
经鉴定，现场查获的野生鸟类有画眉、三道眉草鹀、小鹀、灰头鹀、黄眉柳莺及强脚树莺等国家保护的鸟类。
Wild birds identified at the site include Thrushcross, Trifolium bunting, bunting bunting, bunting bunting, yellowbrow warblers and strong-legged warblers.
办案人员介绍，这些不法人员将非法捕捉、收购来的野生鸟类，在棚中通过高蛋白、抗生素等食品催肥后，采取在棚中热死、袋中闷死等方法处理后，再打包加冰，通过长途客车发往广东等地进行销售。
The case handlers said the illegal aliens will illegally catch and buy wild birds, through high protein, antibiotics and other food fattening in the shed, after the method of hot death in the shed, suffocated in bags, then packed and ice, through long-distance bus to Guangdong and other places for sale.
河北唐山南临渤海，境内河流湿地众多，全球八大候鸟迁徙路线之一的东亚-澳大利亚路线经过这里，这是候鸟迁徙过程中的重要停歇地，每年迁徙通过和留下越冬的鸟类有70多种上百万只。
In the Bohai Sea, which lies to the south of Tangshan in Hebei Province, the East Asian-Australian route, one of the world's eight major migratory bird migration routes, is an important stop in the migration of migratory birds, passing through and leaving behind more than 70 species of birds each year.
其中，有珍贵的丹顶鹤、东方白鹳、黑鹳、天鹅等，也有“三有”保护鸟类黄胸鹀（俗称禾花雀）、灰头鹀等。
Among them, there are rare red-crowned cranes, oriental white storks, black storks, swans, etc., as well as the red bunting bunting (commonly known as the grayheaded bunting).
这也是非法猎捕野鸟的集中地带。
This is also a concentration of illegal bird hunting.
森林公安人员侦查发现，非法猎捕者田间猎捕、地头收购，然后在丰润区和曹妃甸区集中饲养，喂食谷物及激素类药物催肥，同时为预防疾病掺加大量抗生素，20多天后使用塑料袋闷死，运输到天津市，再空运到南方，销售到宾馆、饭店。
The investigation of forest public security personnel found that illegal hunters hunting in the field, ground acquisition, then concentrated in Fengrun and Caofeidian districts, feeding grains and hormone-based fattening, and to prevent disease with a large number of antibiotics, more than 20 days after suffocate, transport to Tianjin, then air-freight to the south, hotels, restaurants.
这其中，黄胸鹀最为典型，该鸟又名禾花雀，是河北省重点保护动物，在南方被认为有补肾壮阳的功效，是宾馆饭店的一道高档菜肴。
Among them, red bunting is the most typical, also known as the bunting bird, a protected animal in Hebei Province. It is considered to have the effect of nourishing kidney and Zhuang Yang in the south and is a high-end dish in hotels and restaurants.
有当地人员称，“抓到一只小黄鸟（黄胸鹀）10块钱，到了广东那边的饭店可以卖100块一只。
One local source said: "Catch a small yellow (yellow-breasted bunting) bird, 10 yuan, to the Guangdong side of the hotel can sell 100 one.
”武汉也是“野味”重要市场这次新冠肺炎疫情的发源地在武汉，而早期确诊的病例大多来自武汉华南海鲜市场。
Wuhan is also an important market for "venison" - the birthplace of the new outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, and most of the cases diagnosed earlier came from the Wuhan South China seafood market.
中国疾控中心近日在病毒溯源研究中取得进展，证实武汉华南海鲜市场存在着大量新型冠状病毒。
The CDC recently made progress in the research of virus traceability and confirmed that there are a lot of new coronavirus in Wuhan South China seafood market.
第一财经记者从森林公安方面了解到，武汉也是国内一个“野味”的重要市场。
The first financial reporter understands from the forest public security aspect, Wuhan is also a domestic "game" important market.
2019年，黑龙江齐齐哈尔市破获“9·3非法收售贩运野生鸟类”特大案件，共抓获25名涉案人员，此案涉及人数众多，鸟类数量巨大，涉案地区跨黑龙江、湖北两省，大庆、武汉等6市县。
In 2019, the city of Qiqihar, Heilongjiang Province, cracked the "9.3 illegal sale and trafficking of wild birds," and arrested 25 people involved in the case, involving a large number of people and a large number of birds, involving six cities and counties including Heilongjiang and Hubei provinces, Daqing and Wuhan.
办案人员介绍，这是一个庞大的猎捕、收购、贩运、销售野生动物的犯罪网络，且作案手段隐蔽，交流多用暗语，反侦查能力强。
The case handlers described it as a vast criminal network that hunts, buys, traffics in and sells wildlife, with covert operations, a high level of communication in code and a strong counter-investigation capability.
在杜尔伯特蒙古族自治县境内，侦查人员发现，收购的野生动物均发往武汉。
Investigators in the Dulbert Mongol autonomous county found that all the wild animals bought had been sent to Wuhan.
“与武汉的褚某祥有很频繁的大量资金流往来，初步断定其上线为武汉的褚某祥，同时在侦查时发现其下线多为附近村民，人数多达十余人。
I have a large amount of money flow to and from Wuhan. I believe that my office is located in Wuhan. At the same time, I found that the lower line of my office is more than a dozen nearby villagers.
”2019年9月，办案人员前往武汉查找嫌疑人褚某祥，确认收货地点为武汉市的白沙洲农副产品市场。
In September 2019, case officers went to Wuhan to search for the suspect. I identified the place of receipt as the Peshao agricultural and sideline market in Wuhan.
现场查获81件经编织袋包装的纸壳箱子，共查获3200余只野生鸟类。
Eighty-one carton boxes packed in knitted bags were seized at the site, and more than 3,200 wild birds were seized.
▲吉林一个波及全国的非法贩卖野生动物网络。
Jilin is an illegal wildlife trafficking network that affects the whole country.
资料来源：森林公安▲收缴216只，129人被拘！湖南破获迄今全国数量最大的穿山甲案现场。
Source: 216, 129 people detained in forest public security! Hunan Province to date has broken the largest number of pangolin case scene.
资料来源：森林公安武汉市的华南海鲜市场，名义上是海鲜市场，但实际上却是个综合市场。
Source: South China Seafood Market in Wuhan, Forest Public Security, nominally a seafood market, but actually a comprehensive market.
华南海鲜市场西区存在野生动物交易，尤其是西区的七街和八街靠近市场内部的区域，存在多家野生动物交易商铺，这里有各种野生动物，如竹鼠、果子狸、野鸭、蛇、野兔等。
In the western part of the South China Seafood Market, there is a wildlife trade, especially in the areas of Seventh and Eighth Streets in the West End, close to the inner market. There are many wildlife shops, such as bamboo mice, beavers, wild ducks, snakes, rabbits, etc.
起初发现确诊的几十名患者，主要都是华南海鲜市场的批发市场经营、采购人员。
Initially found the diagnosis of dozens of patients, mainly South China seafood market wholesale market operations, procurement staff.
武汉市卫健委通报称，第一例感染不幸去世的患者也是常年在武汉华南海鲜市场采购货物。
Wuhan city health committee reported that the first case of the unfortunate death of the infection is also perennial in Wuhan South China seafood market procurement.
2015年12月，全国人大常委会法制工作委员会曾介绍称，总体上我国野生动物保护形势依然十分严峻。
In December 2015, the Legal Work Committee of the NPC Standing Committee introduced that the overall situation of wildlife protection in China is still very serious.
该委员会在海南、广西、云南、黑龙江、吉林、湖北等地开展的实地调研发现，违法猎捕、杀害、买卖野生动物在很多地方仍然不同程度地存在。
The commission's field research in Hainan, Guangxi, Yunnan, Heilongjiang, Jilin and Hubei provinces found that illegal hunting, killing and trading of wild animals still exist to varying degrees in many places.
滥食滥用野生动物的陋习在一些地区还相当盛行。
The abuse of wild animals is still quite prevalent in some areas.
原国家林业局2014年的一份有关《积极应对人感染H7N9禽流感疫情，切实做好春季陆生野生动物疫源疫病监测防控工作的紧急通知》也称，“根据各地监测报告，去年以来河北、湖北等地先后出现了H5N1、H5N2、H9N2和H10N8亚型禽流感疫情，新疆4个地（州）的5个县（市）先后暴发羊小反刍兽疫疫情。
"According to local monitoring reports, H5N1, H5N2, H9N2 and H10N8 avian influenza outbreaks have occurred in five counties (cities) in four counties (counties) in Xinjiang, according to local monitoring reports.
”保护不利，缘于“合理利用”作祟本月26日，市场监管总局、农业农村部、国家林草局联合发布《关于禁止野生动物交易的公告》，要求各地饲养繁育野生动物场所实施隔离，严禁野生动物对外扩散和转运贩卖。
A notice on the prohibition of wildlife trade issued by the General Administration of Market Supervision, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the State Forestry and Forestry Administration on the 26th of this month require all localities to keep breeding and breeding wildlife sites under quarantine and strictly prohibit the export proliferation and transit of wild animals.
各地农（集）贸市场、超市、餐饮单位、电商平台等经营场所，严禁任何形式的野生动物交易活动。
All over the world, trading markets, supermarkets, catering establishments, and electric and commercial platforms are strictly prohibited from trading in wildlife in any form.
该公告同时表示，“消费者要充分认识食用野生动物的健康风险，远离‘野味’，健康饮食。
"Consumers should be fully aware of the health risks associated with eating wild animals and avoid 'game' and healthy eating," it said.
”此前在24日，上述三部门还发出了《关于加强野生动物市场监管积极做好疫情防控工作的紧急通知》，要求对饲养、繁育、运输、出售、购买等环节，加强检验检疫力度，对竹鼠、獾等可能携带新型冠状病毒的野生动物，在其饲养繁育场所实施封控隔离，严禁对外扩散，禁止转运贩卖。
Earlier, on the 24th, the three departments also issued an Emergency Notice on Strengthening Supervision and Administration of Wildlife Markets for the Prevention and Control of Epidemics, which calls for intensified inspection and quarantine on breeding, breeding, transportation, sale and purchase, and the sealing and quarantine of bamboo mice and badgers and other wild animals that may carry the new coronavirus.
对其他未经检疫合格的野生动物，一律严禁进入市场。
All other wild animals that fail to pass quarantine are strictly prohibited from entering the market.
突出农贸市场、超市、餐饮等重点场所以及网站。
Highlight the farmers' market, supermarkets, restaurants and other key sites as well as websites.
但这些举措的效果如何，还有待观察。
It remains to be seen, however, how effective these initiatives have been.
滥食野生动物的陋习在许多地方、许多人的消费习惯中已根深蒂固。
The abuse of wild animals is deeply rooted in the consumption habits of many people in many places.
“一部分人抱着吃野味滋补的错误想法，还有猎奇性的消费、炫耀性的消费观念。
"Some people hold the wrong idea of eating game tonic, as well as curious consumption, dazzling consumption concept.
”原国家林业局上述负责人表示，野生动物的产品相对来说是比较稀缺的，非法经营和售卖野生动物产品的利润空间较大，在经济利益上有一定驱动力。
The former head of the State Forestry Administration said wildlife products are relatively scarce, that there is more profit margin for illegal trade and sale of wildlife products and that there is a drive for economic gain.
同时，猎捕、运输、通信手段高技术化了。
At the same time, the means of hunting, transportation and communications have become highly technical.
不法分子猎捕的成功率更高，相对带来的破坏力也较大，同时违法的成本更低了。
The success rate of illegal elements is higher, the relative destructive force is bigger, and the cost of breaking the law is lower.
我国是世界上野生动物种类最丰富的国家之一，仅脊椎动物种类就达6500多种，约占全球脊椎动物种类总数的10%。
China is one of the most abundant wildlife species in the world, with more than 6,500 species of vertebrates alone, accounting for about 10 percent of the world's vertebrate population.
消耗较严重或濒危程度较高的野生动物有252个物种。
There are 252 species of wild animals that consume higher or higher levels of consumption.
巨大的野生动物资源，加上监管能力薄弱和一定的市场需求，使得制止野生动物消费和贸易有相当难度。
The sheer size of wildlife resources, coupled with weak regulatory capacity and a certain market demand, makes it difficult to curb wildlife consumption and trade.
▲河北某野生动物养殖场。
Hebei a wild animal farm.
摄影/章轲有专家对第一财经记者表示，另一个关键性因素，就是长期以来对于野生动物“合理利用”的说法一直占着上风。
Another key factor, experts have told the first financial reporter, is that the long-held notion of "rational use" of wild animals has always prevailed.
观点上的分歧，在2015年修改《野生动物保护法》时表现得最为激烈。
The divergence of views was most acute when the Wildlife Conservation Act was amended in 2015.
有专家表示，利用、食用野生动物及其制品应当遵守法律法规，符合公序良俗。
Experts said that the use and consumption of wildlife and its products should abide by laws and regulations, in line with public order and customs.
中国人民大学法学院教授周珂表示，有了“合理利用”，野生动物保护法实际上就变成了“野生动物开发利用法”。
Zhou Ke, a professor at the Renmin University of China School of Law, said that with "rational utilization," wildlife protection laws actually became "wildlife development and utilization laws.
在他看来，“合理利用”与“保护”水火不相容。
In his view, "reasonable utilization" was incompatible with "protecting" water.
但也有官员表示，野生动物资源一直伴随着人类社会的起源和发展，人类一直在不断利用野生动物。
But officials say wildlife resources have always accompanied the origin and development of human society, people have been continuously using wild animals.
此次武汉新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的疫情爆发后，中科院、清华大学、北京大学的19名院士学者曾联名呼吁，杜绝野生动物非法食用和交易，从源头控制重大公共健康危机。
Following the outbreak of the new-style coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, 19 academicians from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Tsinghua University and Peking University jointly called for an end to the illegal consumption of and trade in wild animals and the containment of a major public health crisis at the source.
专家们表示，必须以更加刚性的法律约束，遏制野生动物食用和交易的恶习。
Experts say tougher laws must be put in place to curb the vice of wild animals eating and trading.
专家们称，科学研究表明，近些年来世界各地出现的新发传染病，如亨德拉、尼帕病毒，H7N9禽流感、埃博拉、中东呼吸综合征等，都与动物有关。
According to experts, scientific research has shown that new infectious diseases that have emerged around the world in recent years, such as Hendra, Nippa virus, H7N9 avian influenza, Ebola and the Middle East respiratory syndrome, are related to animals.
统计发现有超过70%的新发传染病来源于动物。
Statistics show that more than 70 percent of new infections come from animals.
专家们称，这些病毒本来存在于自然界，野生动物宿主并不一定致病致死，但由于人类食用野生动物，或者侵蚀野生动物栖息地，使得这些病毒与人类的接触面大幅增加，给病毒从野生动物向人类的传播创造了条件，危及公共卫生安全。
Experts say the viruses are native to nature and that wildlife hosts do not necessarily cause death, but human consumption of wildlife or encroachment on wildlife habitats has led to a dramatic increase in their contact with humans, creating conditions for the spread of the virus from wild animals to humans, endangering public health.
加之交通的便利和人口的流动，使得流行病爆发的几率大大增加。
This, together with the ease of transportation and the movement of people, has greatly increased the likelihood of epidemics.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
触目惊心的中国野生动物黑市。
A terrifying black market in Chinese wildlife.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "触目惊心的中国野生动物黑市";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; startling Chinese wildlife black market;;
var msg_desc = "在森林公安的案件库里，被列为“大案要案”每年就有数十起。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; dozens a year.
从事野生动物非法猎捕、运输、买卖的犯罪分子，大多形成了地下交易黑色链条。
Criminals engaged in illegal hunting, transporting and buying and selling of wildlife have mostly formed black chains in underground transactions.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
