“我是第一批接种新冠疫苗的志愿者，目前身体状况很好”。
"I was one of the first volunteers to be vaccinated with the new crown and I am in good health."
赵天宇。
Zhao Tianyu.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
新冠疫苗临床试验3月16日启动，第一批志愿者接种后，将按要求隔离14天，监测体温并检测血液抗体文|《财经》记者赵天宇编辑| 王小004，这串编号将会伴随着林易（化名）至少半年的时间，看似不起眼，实际上是新冠疫苗研发的一个关键注脚。
When the first volunteers are vaccinated, they will be quarantined for 14 days to monitor body temperature and test for blood antibodies. Caijing reporter Zhao Tianyu will accompany Lin Yi for at least six months.
3月16日20点18分，中国军事科学院军事医学研究院陈薇院士领衔开发的重组新冠疫苗，获批启动临床试验。
At 20: 18 on March 16, a recombinant new crown vaccine, developed by Academician Chen Wei of the Institute of Military Medicine of the Chinese Academy of Military Sciences, was approved to start clinical trials.
启动后，首批4位志愿者在当日第一时间接种了新冠疫苗，林易是其中的一位，也是彼时唯一的女性志愿者。
Lin Yi was one of the first four volunteers to be vaccinated with the new cap at the start of the day and was then the only female volunteer.
“我一直对疫苗有信心。
"I have always had confidence in the vaccine.
”3月22日上午，林易告诉《财经》记者，身在武汉的人，更希望新冠疫苗尽早能够研发出来。
On the morning of March 22, Lin told Caijing that people in Wuhan would like to see the new crown vaccine developed as soon as possible.
因此，当她听说新冠疫苗一期临床试验在招募志愿者的消息后，赶快报名了，“总要有第一个吃螃蟹的人，就算我不去，也会有其他志愿者参加。
So when she heard that the first clinical trial for the new crown vaccine was recruiting volunteers, she signed up. "There's always the first person who eats crabs, and even if I don't go, there will be other volunteers.
我刚好听说了这件事，就想着去做”。
I just heard about it and thought about doing it.
目前，林易自述身体状况不错，没有不适，在武汉市一家酒店里统一隔离14天。
At present, Lin Yi self-described good health, no discomfort, in Wuhan City a hotel unified isolation for 14 days.
截至3月22日上午，已有40多位志愿者入组。
By the morning of March 22, more than 40 volunteers had joined the group.
有人带来了吉他，有人在线工作。
Somebody brought a guitar. Someone worked online.
这些年龄层不同、多数互相陌生的人，愿望一致——希望身体健康，期待着新冠疫苗面世。
These people of all ages, most strangers to each other, shared a desire to be healthy and look forward to a new crown vaccine.
“我只考虑了几分钟”从决定报名到疫苗接种，林易甚至都没花上一整天。
"I only considered a few minutes" from the decision to sign up for the vaccination, Lin Yi did not even spend a whole day.
3月16日上午报名参与新冠疫苗的一期临床试验后，林易当晚就接种并入住了隔离点。
Lin Yi was vaccinated in the morning of March 16 after he signed up for the first phase of clinical trials for the new crown vaccine.
一支新疫苗的诞生，第一步，经过毒理研究等基础工作；第二步，做动物实验，将疫苗打在实验动物身上，测试是否产生抗体，以及安全性和稳定性；到第三步，才能招募志愿者，做人体的临床试验，为志愿者接种疫苗，以测试疫苗用于人的安全性和有效性。
The first step in the birth of a new vaccine is to do basic work, such as toxicological research; the second step is to do animal experiments to hit experimental animals to test for antibody production, safety and stability; and the third step is to recruit volunteers for human clinical trials and vaccinate volunteers to test for human safety and efficacy.
人体临床试验，分三期。
Human clinical trial in three phases.
一期临床试验只需要几十个或上百人，其后人数逐渐增加，至三期临床试验可能需要上千人，在更广泛人群中测试疫苗。
After only a few dozen or hundreds of people for a trial phase one, the number gradually increases, and by the third phase a thousand people may be needed to test the vaccine in a wider population.
这些步骤通过后，研究机构和企业才能向药监部门申请上市。
After these steps are adopted, research institutions and enterprises can apply to the pharmaceutical supervisory authority for listing.
林易参与的，是一期临床试验。
Lin Yi is involved in a clinical trial.
她很信任这个新冠疫苗的科研团队，团队由军事科学院军事医学研究院陈薇院士领衔。
She believes in the research team for the new crown vaccine, led by Academician Chen Weiwei of the Academy of Military Medicine.
3月16日，林易从一位朋友处听说新冠疫苗临床试验在招募志愿者，朋友把报名的二维码发给了她。
On March 16, Lin Yi heard from a friend that clinical trials for the new crown vaccine were recruiting volunteers.
她没怎么犹豫。
She did not hesitate.
林易所学专业是药学，虽然工作后并非从事药物研发，但从疫情一开始，她就在关注着疫苗的进展。
Lin Yi studied pharmacy. Although she wasn't involved in drug development after work, she watched the progress of the vaccine since the beginning of the epidemic.
“我们身在武汉，这是全国新冠疫情最严重的地方，我们很多人都非常期待疫苗能早日研发出来。
"We are in Wuhan, the worst place in the country with the new crown, and many of us are looking forward to the early development of a vaccine.
”林易说。
"said Lin.
林易只考虑了几分钟，就决定报名参加。
Lin Yi considered only a few minutes and decided to sign up.
给林易发了二维码的朋友，自己也报名参与了，目前也已经接种疫苗，进入隔离观察期。
To Lin Yi issued a two-dimensional code of friends, himself also signed up to participate, has also been vaccinated, into isolation observation period.
林易说，“我的朋友也很有勇气，当时喊我一起参加，我想着大家互相做个伴，一起去也挺好的。
Lin Yi said, "My friend is also very courageous, at that time called me to join in, I think we do each other as a companion, it is good to go together.
”入组过程很快这次临床试验，招募的全部是身体健康的志愿者。
The clinical trial was quick, and all of the recruits were healthy volunteers.
也许是早期报名人少、消息尚未传开，报名当日下午，林易就接到了工作人员的电话，说初选已经通过，通知她去做体检。
Perhaps the early registration of the few, the news has not spread, Lin Yi on the afternoon of the registration received a call from staff, said that the primary has passed, told her to go for a medical examination.
这是一个非常全面的身体检查，包括咽拭子的核酸检测、CT，以排除新冠肺炎感染者；还有身高、体重、血压、体温、抽血化验等多个项目。
This is a very comprehensive physical examination that includes a nucleic acid test for swabs, a CT scan to exclude Pneumonia New Crown Pneumonia, as well as a variety of items such as height, weight, blood pressure, body temperature and blood tests.
同时，工作人员非常详细地向志愿者们读了知情同意书。
At the same time, the staff members read the informed consent form to the volunteers in great detail.
签署知情同意书，是志愿者参与临床试验过程中必要的一个步骤。
Signing informed consent is a necessary step in the participation of volunteers in clinical trials.
林易说，工作人员怕大家不仔细看，所以认真地把内容读出来。
Lin Yi said the staff was afraid people would not look carefully, so carefully read out the content.
体检后几个小时，林易得知她体检合格。
A few hours after the medical examination, Lin Yi learned that she qualified for medical examination.
在接种疫苗之前，林易贴上了实时监测体温的传感器，粘贴在腋下，通过手机APP“温云”24小时不间断地监测体温，可以随时查看。
Before being vaccinated, Lin Yi had a real-time temperature monitor attached to his armpit, which can be viewed 24 hours a day via a mobile phone APP "warm cloud."
3月16日当晚，林易以一期临床试验入组者的身份，接种了新冠疫苗。
On the night of March 16, Lin Yi was vaccinated with the new crown vaccine as part of a clinical trial.
“这个过程真的是很快。
"The process is really fast.
”林易说，提交了报名表之后，她就去忙自己的事情了，没想到，下午就接到体检通知。
After submitting her application form, Lin said, she went about her own business, only to be notified of a medical examination in the afternoon.
林易放下电话匆匆忙忙去洗漱准备出门，并按照朋友的建议，把生活用品也一起带上了。
Lin Yi put down the phone in a hurry to wash up and get ready to go out.
林易平时在武汉独自居住。
Lin Yi usually lives alone in Wuhan.
3月22日已经是她入组临床试验的第6天，她说，“家人应该还不知道我参与疫苗临床试验的事情。
On March 22, the sixth day of her clinical trial, she said, "my family should still not know about my involvement in clinical trials for vaccines.
”实时监测体温3月16日晚上，由工作人员带着，林易和几位入组志愿者手里拿着自己的体检结果等资料，进入了疫苗注射室。
Real-time monitoring of body temperature March 16 night, led by staff, Lin Yi and a group of volunteers holding their own medical results and other information, entered the vaccination room.
这是最早一批志愿者接种，林易看到了几位专家组成员也在那里。
This is the first batch of volunteers inoculated, Lin Yi saw several expert group members also there.
林易说，她接种的时候，陈薇院士就站在她的旁边。
Lin Yi says, when she inoculates, Academician Chen Wei stands beside her.
志愿者正在接种新冠疫苗。
Volunteers are being vaccinated with the new crown.
图片由受访者提供一针新冠疫苗接种后，林易进入观察室。
Lin Yi enters the observation room after being vaccinated with a new crown vaccine.
观察室里有几位工作人员，观察接种疫苗的志愿者们是否出现不适，以及查看体温。
There were several staff in the observation room to observe whether the volunteers were suffering from any discomfort and to check their temperature.
在观察室大约度过了半小时，林易没有出现不适的情况，于是回到了隔离点。
After about half an hour in the observation room, Lin Yi did not develop any discomfort and returned to the quarantine point.
新冠疫苗接种后，林易拿到临床试验资料，主要有三项，其一是“接种日记卡”，在14天隔离期间，志愿者们要在卡上记录体温及不良反应。
After the new crown was vaccinated, Lin Yi got three clinical tests. One was an "inoculation diary card" on which volunteers recorded their temperature and adverse reactions during a 14-day isolation period.
其二，是一张透明的卡尺板，如果接种部位出现不良反应，比如红肿、皮疹，这张卡纸板像尺子一样，可测量出现反应的部位的大小，以判断程度如何。
The second is a transparent tape that measures the size of the site of the reaction, like a ruler, if there are adverse reactions, such as redness and rashes, in the inoculation area.
其三，是专门用来记录体温检测设备“温云”异常情况的一张纸，设备若离开皮肤，都需要记录下来，比如取下来洗澡、没电了、或者意外脱落等。
Third, it is a piece of paper specifically designed to record the temperature anomaly of a temperature measuring device. If the device leaves the skin, it will need to be recorded, such as taking a bath, losing electricity, or accidentally shedding it.
林易被分到了疫苗的低剂量组。
Lin Yi was assigned to the low dose group of the vaccine.
根据中国临床试验注册中心官网，这项试验的全称是“重组新型冠状病毒(2019-COV)疫苗（腺病毒载体）Ⅰ期临床试验”，试验设计是每组36人，分为低剂量组（5E10vp）、中剂量组（1E11vp）、高剂量组（1.5 E11vp），总共108人。
According to the official website of the China Clinical Trial Registration Center, the full name of the trial is "Recombinant New Coronavirus (2019-COV) Vaccine Phase I Clinical Trial," with a total of 108 people in each group, divided into low dose group (5E10vp), medium dose group (1E11vp) and high dose group (1.5 E11vp).
入组的志愿者们建了微信群，人数在慢慢增多，目前林易在微信群里看到的是低、中剂量组的志愿者们。
The group of volunteers set up a micro-group, the number of people slowly increasing, Lin Yi in the micro-letter group to see the low, medium-dose group of volunteers.
这次临床试验招募的对象，是年龄在18至60周岁之间的健康人。
The clinical trial recruited healthy people between the ages of 18 and 60.
林易说，临床试验参与者的招募和入组，并没有哪个人群优先的说法，只不过截至3月21日来看，女性志愿者，以及高龄、低龄的志愿者相对较少。
Lin said there was no population preference for recruitment and entry into clinical trials, although as of March 21, there were relatively few female volunteers and older, younger volunteers.
目前，林易和其他志愿者的日常监测项目就是体温。
At present, Lin Yi and other volunteers' daily monitoring project is the body temperature.
林易在接种疫苗的第二天，体温曾达到这几天以来的最高值——37.3度，其后恢复正常。
The day after the vaccination, Lin's temperature reached its highest level in days - 37.3 degrees, before returning to normal.
也有志愿者在接种疫苗后曾一度出现发烧的情况。
There were also volunteers who developed a fever after being vaccinated.
接种新冠疫苗后，是否已有志愿者产生抗体，这仍是未知数。
It remains to be seen whether any volunteers have developed antibodies since the vaccination.
林易说，她在接种疫苗的第二天曾抽过血，之后，第7天、10天、14天、28天、3个月、6个月，都需要抽血化验。
Lin said she had drawn blood the day after the vaccination, and needed blood tests on days 7, 10, 14, 28, 3 and 6 months.
作为最早一批志愿者，林易目前还没有获知血液检测抗体的结果。
As one of the first volunteers, Lin Yi did not know the results of the blood test antibody.
隔离观察14天的生活医生和专家们时常过来查看这些入组志愿者们的状态。
Lifedoctors and experts who had been observing life in isolation for 14 days often came to check on the status of the volunteers.
志愿者们一人住一间，彼此隔离，饭菜由工作人员按时发放，放在每个房间门口的凳子上；生活垃圾放在门口，工作人员会清理。
Volunteers live alone, isolated from each other, food is served regularly by staff on stools at the entrance to each room, and household waste is placed at the door, where staff clean it up.
每个房间都有前台的联系方式，如果有不舒服或者异常情况，可以随时给前台打电话，这是一个24小时的热线，接到电话会有医生马上过来查看。
Each room has a front desk contact information, if uncomfortable or abnormal situation, can call the front desk at any time, this is a 24-hour hotline, the doctor will come to check immediately.
每位志愿者在接种疫苗后，需要隔离观察14天。
Each volunteer was observed in isolation for 14 days after being vaccinated.
林易作为第一批入组的志愿者，到3月22日已是第6天。
As one of the first volunteers, Lin Yi was on his sixth day on March 22nd.
新来的志愿者们仍在不断加入，他们会有生活上的琐碎问题来互相询问，比如几点送餐，监测体温的“温云”脱落了怎么贴上去，凡此种种很多细节，林易尽力解答，“我们群里面蛮热闹的，每天早上七点多就开始聊天”。
As new volunteers continue to join us, they ask each other trivial questions about their lives, such as when to send food, how to stick the warm cloud of temperature off, etc. Lin Yi tries to answer all these details.
志愿者们也在互相照顾，林易觉得氛围很好，感受到了陌生人之间的热情。
Volunteers are also taking care of each other, Lin Yi feel the atmosphere is very good, feel the warmth between strangers.
大家会一起团购些生活用品、零食，并分享食品等。
People will join together to buy some daily necessities, snacks, and share food.
有人带来了自己的吉他，在房间里没事就弹一弹；武汉的樱花开了，也有人在群里转发樱花的视频。
Someone brought their own guitar, and when there was nothing in the room, the cherry blossoms in Wuhan blossomed, and others were forwarding videos of the cherry blossoms in the crowd.
林易所在的公司已经在线上复工，她平时也忙碌着处理线上的工作，余下时间看看电影，和朋友们聊天，回答大家的问题。
Ms. Lin's company is back online, and she's busy with her online work, watching movies, chatting with friends and answering questions.
在这次入组新冠疫苗的临床试验之前，林易已经在武汉做了近两个月的志愿者。
Lin Yi had been a volunteer in Wuhan for nearly two months before entering clinical trials for the new crown vaccine.
从疫情暴发后，她们日常要做的事情有很多，比如接送医护人员，也会转运物资到医院、中转点或医疗队。
Since the outbreak, they have had to do many things on a daily basis, such as transporting health-care workers to hospitals, transit points or medical teams.
她之前还参加过一个方舱医院的筹备工作。
She had also previously worked on preparations for a cabin hospital.
“武汉的志愿者挺多的，成千上万人，我们齐心协力做应该做的事情，就是希望疫情能够尽快结束。
"Wuhan has a lot of volunteers, thousands of people, we work together to do what should be done, is to hope that the epidemic can be ended as soon as possible.
”林易说，从疫情暴发到现在，身在武汉感触太多了，所以非常希望疫苗能够尽早研发出来。
Lin said he felt too much in Wuhan from the outbreak until now, so he was hopeful the vaccine could be developed as soon as possible.
一期临床试验顺利的话，疫苗后期也许就能快一点、早一点上市。
If the first phase of clinical trials is successful, the vaccine may be able to come on the market sooner or later.
截至3月22日，仍有很多武汉市民自发报名，希望参与到新冠疫苗的临床试验中。
As of March 22, many Wuhan residents had voluntarily signed up to participate in clinical trials for the new crown vaccine.
22日上午，另一位武汉女士告诉《财经》记者，她也在系统中登记报名了，显示报名成功，目前每天需要上报两次体温等信息，等待着工作人员的下一步通知。
Another Wuhan woman told Caijing on the morning of May 22 that she had also registered with Caijing and showed that she had registered successfully. She now needs to report her temperature and other information twice a day, waiting for the next announcement.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我是第一批接种新冠疫苗的志愿者，目前身体状况很好”。
"I was one of the first volunteers to be vaccinated with the new crown and I am in good health."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "“我是第一批接种新冠疫苗的志愿者，目前身体状况很好”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "I was the first volunteer to be vaccinated with the new crown vaccine, and is now in good health";
var msg_desc = "新冠疫苗临床试验3月16日启动，第一批志愿者接种后，将按要求隔离14天，监测体温并检测血液抗体";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; New Crown vaccine clinical trial started on 16 March, and the first volunteers will be quarantined for 14 days, as required, to monitor body temperature and test blood antibodies and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
