直击英国缓疫策略：9天进入“拖延期”，ICU严重不足，暂不检测轻症患者。
Strike the British Plague Strategy: 9 days into the "delay period," the ICU is seriously deficient, temporarily not detect light patients.
江玮。
Jianwei.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
作为现代公共卫生的起源地，英国应对新冠肺炎疫情的机制备受关注。
As the origin of modern public health, the British mechanism to deal with the outbreak of Newly Coronary Pneumonia has drawn much attention.
但随着疫情的蔓延，英国的防疫策略也是最受争议的2020年3月19日，在英国英格兰北部约克市中心，两名妇女在相邻的公园长椅隔空聊天。
But as the epidemic spreads, Britain's vaccination strategy is also the most controversial, March 19, 2020, in the heart of York, northern England, where two women chat on adjacent park benches.
图/法新文|《财经》记者江玮发自伦敦编辑|郝洲中小学停课，暂未停课的大学则改为线上授课，餐馆、酒吧歇业，超市限购，大英博物馆无限期关门，西区剧院停摆，70岁以上老年人被建议自我隔离3个月……2020年3月中旬以来，新冠肺炎疫情正在改变英国。
NEW YORK & # 45; & # 45; Caijing & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
虽然伦敦街头戴口罩的人依然是少数，但超市里的卫生纸、消毒洗手液、意大利面和罐头食品近来常被抢购一空。
Toilet, disinfectant hand sanitizers, pasta and canned food in supermarkets have recently been snapped up, although street masks are still a minority in London.
在空荡荡的货架上，一家超市贴出“买前三思”的提示。
On an empty shelf, a supermarket posted a "think twice before buying."
早些时候，“保持冷静，勤洗手（Keep Calm and Wash Your Hands）”这句标语出现在伦敦女王陛下剧院的卫生间里。
Earlier, the slogan "Keep calm and wash your hands regularly" appeared in the bathroom at Her Majesty's Theatre in London.
自从新冠肺炎疫情暴发以来，英国首相鲍里斯·约翰逊提醒民众最多的一句话就是勤洗手，甚至还在电视上演示了如何唱完两遍生日快乐歌才结束洗手。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has reminded people that washing hands is one of the most popular words, and even demonstrated on television how to complete a happy birthday song twice before washing your hands.
作为现代公共卫生的起源地，英国应对新冠肺炎疫情的机制备受关注。
As the origin of modern public health, the British mechanism to deal with the outbreak of Newly Coronary Pneumonia has drawn much attention.
但随着疫情的蔓延，英国的防疫策略也是最受争议的。
But with the spread of the epidemic, Britain's vaccination strategy is also the most controversial.
出自英国政府首席科学顾问帕特里克·瓦伦斯之口的“群体免疫”在批评者看来是不负责任和无所作为，尽管英国卫生大臣马特·汉考克后来澄清说，群体免疫从来就不是英国的政策或者目标。
"Group immunization," as Patrick Vallance, the British government's chief scientific adviser, called it, seemed irresponsible and ineffective to critics, even though the British Health Secretary, Matt Hancock, later clarified that mass immunization had never been a British policy or goal.
他强调：“我们的目标是保护生命，我们的政策是和病毒战斗，保护脆弱人群和国家医疗服务体系（NHS）。
"Our goal is to protect lives, our policy is to fight the virus, to protect vulnerable people and the National Health Service (NHS)," he said.
”自从3月12日宣布进入防疫工作的第二阶段以来，英国政府采取的措施不断调整并逐步加码，从认为关闭学校弊大于利到几天后宣布中小学停课；从认为没有必要取消大型活动到呼吁民众保持社交距离。
Since March 12, when the second phase of the vaccination campaign was announced, the British government has steadily adjusted and scaled up its measures, from saying that closing schools does more harm than good to suspending primary and secondary schools a few days later; from considering that there is no need to cancel major events to calling on people to stay socially distant.
3月20日（周五）傍晚，约翰逊更进一步宣布从当晚关闭所有餐馆、咖啡馆、酒吧、电影院、健身房等场所，而周五晚上通常是酒吧最热闹的时候。
On the evening of March 20th, Johnson went one step further and announced that all restaurants, cafes, bars, cinemas, gymnasiums and the rest of the night would be closed, and Friday night was usually the hottest part of the pub.
约翰逊政府采取的举措正逐渐向其他欧洲国家靠拢，但英国还未封锁国境或者城市，进出伦敦的交通虽然因客流减少而缩减，但并未切断。
The Johnson administration is moving closer to other European countries, but the UK has not closed its borders or cities, and traffic to and from London has been curtailed, but not cut.
截至当地时间3月21日，英国共5018人确诊感染新冠病毒，死亡病例达233例。
Up to March 21, local time, a total of 5,018 people in the United Kingdom confirmed the new crown virus, 233 cases of death.
伦敦的一家超市提醒大家不要抢购（摄影：江玮）从围堵到拖延英国首次出现新冠肺炎确诊病例是在2020年1月31日，患者为约克大学的一名中国留学生和她的亲属，两人之前刚从中国抵达英国。
A London supermarket is warning against snapping up a case of the first confirmed case of crowding pneumonia in the UK -- on January 31, 2020 -- a Chinese student from York University and her relatives, both of whom had arrived in the UK from China.
由于当时感染人群集中在武汉，英国的举措仅限于加强对从武汉进入英国旅客的检查。
Since the crowds were concentrated in Wuhan at the time, the British move was limited to tightening controls on visitors entering the UK from Wuhan.
在武汉封城后，英国对过去14天从武汉抵达英国的乘客进行追踪，呼吁他们主动联系国家医疗服务体系接受新冠病毒测试。
After the closure of Wuhan, Britain tracked passengers arriving from Wuhan over the past 14 days, calling on them to contact the NHS for a new crown virus test.
2月6日，一名来自布莱顿的英国商人史蒂夫·沃尔什确诊新冠肺炎。
A British businessman from Brighton, Steve Walsh, was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 6.
他在新加坡开会期间被感染，但由于没有意识到自己已被感染，离开新加坡后，他又前往法国阿尔卑斯山的一家滑雪场待了四天，由此造成至少11人感染。
He was infected during a meeting in Singapore, but left the country for a four-day trip to a ski resort in the French Alps, infecting at least 11 people.
尽管沃尔什和被他感染的人后来都治愈出院，但确诊病例仍在英国各地零星出现。
Although Walsh and his infected people were later released, confirmed cases continue to appear sporadically across the UK.
到2月底，英国的感染人数为23人。
By the end of February, the number of people infected in the UK was 23.
进入3月之后，确诊病例数量开始急速增长。
After entering March, the number of confirmed cases began to increase rapidly.
3月3日，英国政府发布应对新冠肺炎的行动计划，将英国的防疫工作分为四个阶段：防堵、拖延、研究和减损。
On March 3, the British government announced an action plan to tackle pneumonia, dividing the UK's immunization efforts into four phases: containment, delay, research and impairment.
在公布行动方案时，英国仍处于防堵的第一阶段，即希望通过发现早期病例和密切接触者来阻止病毒在英国的进一步传播。
At the time of the announcement, the UK was still in the first phase of containment, hoping to stop the virus from spreading further in the UK by detecting early cases and close contacts.
但只过了9天，英国政府就宣布防疫工作进入拖延阶段，即希望病毒放缓传播速度，减少高峰期影响。
But only nine days later, the British government announced a delay in vaccination, hoping to slow the spread of the virus and reduce the impact of the peak.
此时，英国已发现596例确诊病例，10人死亡。
By this time, 596 confirmed cases and 10 deaths had been detected in the UK.
在宣布进入防疫工作第二阶段时，首相约翰逊宣布的主要举措是建议出现发烧或者咳嗽症状的人进行自我隔离，学校取消海外旅行，超过70岁或者健康状况有问题的人不要乘坐邮轮。
In announcing the second phase of the epidemic, Prime Minister Johnson announced that his main initiatives would be to recommend self-segregation for people with fever or cough symptoms, the cancellation of overseas school travel, and the non-use of cruise ships for those over 70 or in a state of ill health.
与当时已经进入全国封锁状态的意大利和宣布学校停课的法国相比，英国政府的决策受到应对不力的质疑。
Compared with Italy, which was then under a national blockade, and France, which had suspended schools, the British government's decision was challenged by an inadequate response.
进入拖延阶段的另一项新政策是不再对轻症患者进行检测，只是要求他们在家里自我隔离。
Another new policy that has moved into the delay phase is to stop testing light patients and simply ask them to isolate themselves at home.
欧洲另一个国家瑞士也采取了类似的决定，但这与世界卫生组织的建议背道而驰。
Switzerland, another European country, took a similar decision, but this is contrary to the recommendation of the World Health Organization.
世卫组织认为对每一个疑似病例进行检测才更好地阻止社区传播。
WHO believes that testing for every suspected case is a better way to stop community transmission.
尝试对所有疑似病例进行检测是欧洲国家中疫情最严重的意大利正在采取的举措。
Trying to test all suspected cases is an ongoing initiative in Italy, the most affected country in Europe.
“很不幸，其他国家的确诊人数正在上升，他们试图调整措施，但延迟就是一种失误，尤其在看到意大利所经历的一切之后。
"Unfortunately, the number of confirmed cases is on the rise in other countries and they are trying to adjust, but the delay is a mistake, especially after seeing what has happened in Italy."
意大利自己也浪费了很多宝贵时间，尽管它目睹了中国经历的一切，这些都是以生命为代价的。
Italy itself has wasted much of its precious time, despite witnessing all that China has gone through, at the cost of its lives.
”曾经在中国工作多年后来回到意大利政府就职的米凯莱·杰拉奇对《财经》记者表示，他此前担任意大利经济发展部副部长。
Michele Gelaci, who returned to the Italian government after many years in China, told Caijing he had previously served as Italy's deputy minister for economic development.
世卫组织前助理总干事、伦敦卫生与热带医学院流行病学教授大卫·海曼对《财经》记者表示，检测是重要的，因为通过检测可以知道疾病在哪里发生，然后做出反应。
Testing is important because it allows you to know where the disease is and then respond, David Heymann, a former assistant director-general of WHO and professor of epidemiology at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told Caijing.
但他同时表示，每个国家是根据自身能力和风险评估做出该如何应对的判断。
But at the same time, he said, each country makes its own judgments about how to respond based on its own capabilities and risk assessment.
面对检测能力不足的批评，英国政府在3月17日表示将在未来四周内把每日检测能力提升至2.5万。
In the face of criticism of its poor testing capability, the British government said on March 17 it would raise its daily detection capacity to 25,000 within the next four weeks.
为了更好地向英国民众说明政府采取的行动，约翰逊从3月16日起每天在伦敦唐宁街10号首相官邸召开新闻发布会。
To better inform Britons of the government's actions, Johnson began giving a daily press conference at 10 Downing Street in London from March 16.
他在过去几天的发布会上宣布了更多举措，包括呼吁国民减少不必要的接触和旅行，尽可能在家工作，从建议民众不要去餐馆、酒吧、剧院到最后宣布关闭这些场所。
In his briefings over the past few days, he has announced additional initiatives, including a call for nationals to reduce unnecessary contact and travel, to work as far as possible from home and to advise people not to go to restaurants, bars, theatres and, finally, to declare them closed.
尽管英国政府尚未像法国那样对违反封锁令的人进行罚款，但有望于下周在议会通过的新冠病毒紧急法案将赋予政府更多权限对违反规定者实施处罚。
Although the British government has yet to fine violators of the embargo as France does, the Crown Virus Emergency Bill, which is expected to be passed by Parliament next week, will give the government more power to impose penalties on violators.
民间的行动比政府更快一步。
Civil action is faster than government action.
在政府要求关闭博物馆和美术馆的前两天，英国主要博物馆和美术馆已经纷纷在3月17日宣布将从次日起关门。
The closure comes two days after major British museums and galleries announced on March 17 that they would close the museum and gallery from the next day.
3月18日，大英博物馆一改往日的熙熙攘攘，大门口贴着关门的告示。
On March 18, the British Museum was transformed from a bustling museum with a sign to close doors.
在大英博物馆对面的一家纪念品商店，一名店员在百无聊赖地整理原本已经非常整齐的货架。
At a souvenir shop across from the British Museum, a clerk messes through already tidy shelves.
他对《财经》记者表示：“完全没有生意。
"There is no business at all," he told Caijing.
”从早上九点到下午两点，他只接待了一名顾客。
From nine o'clock in the morning until two in the afternoon, he received only one customer.
关门以后的大英博物馆（摄影：江玮）大英博物馆门口的告示写着：“对不起！关门了！”（摄影：江玮）为了缓解疫情对于经济的影响，英国财政大臣里希·苏纳克3月17日宣布将提供3300亿英镑的贷款担保，并通过减税、补助和其他手段来减轻疫情对企业的影响。
'Excuse me! Close the door! '(Photo: Jianwei) To help ease the economic impact of the epidemic, Treasury Secretary Leahy Suhnak announced on March 17 that he would provide 330 billion pounds in loan guarantees and mitigate the impact of the epidemic through tax cuts, subsidies and other measures.
3月20日，英国政府更是采取前所未有的举动，决定由政府向因受疫情影响无法开工的企业支付员工80%的工资，上限为每月2500英镑。
On March 20, in an unprecedented move, the British government decided that the government would pay 80% of workers' wages to companies unable to start work because of the epidemic, up to a maximum of 2,500 a month.
这一政策将实施3个月，若有需要还会延长。
The policy will be in effect for three months and will be extended if required.
如此形式的政府干预在英国史无前例，若非疫情，对于保守党政府更是一个难以想象的决策。
Such a form of government intervention is unprecedented in Britain, and would have been unthinkable for a Conservative government had it not been for the outbreak.
基于科学的不同观点英国有应对传染病的丰富经验。
Different views based on science The UK has a wealth of experience in dealing with infectious diseases.
公共卫生医学的开拓者约翰·斯诺正是来自英国，他在19世纪对伦敦苏活区霍乱疫情的研究被认为是流行病学研究的先驱。
John Snow, the pioneer of public health medicine, was originally from England, and his study of the cholera epidemic in the Soviet Union in London in the 19th century was regarded as a pioneer of epidemiological research.
英国政府在应对新冠疫情的行动计划中列出了过去100多年英国应对流行病的经历，其中包括1918-1919年的西班牙大流感、1957-1958年的亚洲流感、1989-1990年的季节性流感、2002-2003年的非典、2009-2010年的甲型H1N1流感和2012年的中东呼吸综合征。
In its action plan for the New Crown, the British Government outlined its experience with the epidemic over the past 100 years, including the Spanish influenza of 1918-1919, the Asian influenza of 1957-1958, the seasonal influenza of 1989-1990, SARS of 2002-2003, influenza A (H1N1) of 2009-2010 and the Middle East respiratory syndrome of 2012.
英国政府在这份行动计划里称，英国应对过大规模的传染病暴发，对此有充分的准备。
In the action plan, the British government said it was well prepared for a major outbreak of infectious disease.
“我们的行动方案定期接受检验，并根据地方和国家情况进行有针对性的更新，这为有效应对新冠肺炎打下了基础。
"Our programme of action is regularly tested and tailored to local and national circumstances, which lays the foundation for an effective response to pneumonia in the new crown.
”海曼在政府行动计划公布前接受《财经》记者采访时曾提到英国面对疫情有非常坚实的策略：遏制、延迟和研究。
In an interview with Caijing ahead of the government's action plan, Mr. Heyman mentioned that the UK has a very solid strategy for dealing with the epidemic: containment, delay and research.
这与后来英国政府宣布的四阶段行动计划几乎不谋而合。
This almost coincided with the four-phase action plan announced by the British Government.
海曼曾于2012年至2017年担任英格兰公共卫生署主席，这一机构与美国疾病控制与预防中心(CDC)职能相似。
Mr. Heyman chaired England's Department of Public Health from 2012 to 2017, a body similar to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
“每个国家做出的回应都是根据风险评估做出的。
"Each country's response is based on a risk assessment.
英国政府也是如此，先试图遏制病毒的蔓延，现在则采用了新的战略。
So did the British government, which tried to contain the spread of the virus and has now adopted a new strategy.
”海曼说。
'he said.
自从新冠肺炎疫情暴发以来，首相约翰逊已经召开了六次代号为“眼镜蛇”的紧急内阁会议。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown, Prime Minister Johnson has convened six emergency cabinet meetings codenamed "Cobra."
第一次发生在3月2日，英国政府随后公开了对新冠肺炎的行动计划。
The first took place on March 2, when the British government later unveiled an action plan for new crown pneumonia.
第二次在3月9日，当时做出的决定是维持英国处于防疫行动第一阶段的状态。
On the second occasion, on 9 March, the decision was made to maintain the United Kingdom in the first phase of its vaccination campaign.
3月12日，约翰逊在第三次“眼镜蛇”会议后宣布英国进入防疫第二阶段。
Johnson announced March 12, after the third meeting of the "Cobra" announced the United Kingdom into the second phase of immunization.
3月16日、18日和20日，他又分别主持了三次紧急会议。
On 16, 18 and 20 March, he chaired three additional emergency meetings.
“眼镜蛇”是由内阁简报室首字母缩写组成的代号。
The Cobra is a code name for the acronym for the Cabinet Briefing Room.
这一紧急会议在国家面临危机时启动，参加会议的成员包括高级政府官员、安全和情报官员、军方和由危机性质决定的相关部门负责人。
The emergency session was launched at a time when the country was facing a crisis and was attended by senior government officials, security and intelligence officials, the military and heads of relevant departments determined by the nature of the crisis.
面对质疑，约翰逊强调政府决策是基于科学证据。
Faced with the challenge, Johnson stressed that the government's decision was based on scientific evidence.
英国政府首席医学顾问和首席科学顾问在此次应对新冠肺炎的政策制定中发挥了重要作用。
The British government's chief medical adviser and chief scientific adviser has played an important role in shaping the policy response to pneumonia.
目前担任政府首席医疗顾问的是克里斯·惠蒂，他也是英格兰地区首席医疗官。
The current chief medical adviser to the government is Chris Whitty, the chief medical officer for England.
这位来自伦敦卫生与热带医学院的教授是一名流行病学家，此前曾参与过英国政府应对埃博拉疫情的行动。
The professor from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine is an epidemiologist who was involved in the British government's response to the Ebola outbreak.
首席科学顾问则是英国政府紧急事件科学顾问小组(SAGE)的主席，目前担任这一职务的瓦伦斯曾经是伦敦大学学院医学院院长，也在企业担任过研发部门负责人。
The Chief Scientific Adviser chairs the British Government's Emergency Science Advisory Panel (SAGE), a position currently held by Mr. Vallance, former Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at University College London and head of the R & D division at the enterprise.
紧急事件科学顾问小组的作用是为英国政府决策提供及时的科学建议，其成员构成依紧急事件的性质而定。
The role of the Scientific Advisory Panel on Emergencies is to provide timely scientific advice to the British Government for decision-making, and its membership depends on the nature of the emergency.
英国政府认为，如果新冠病毒继续蔓延，他们将无法阻止多数人被感染，因此科学家的使命是如何放缓这一过程，减少感染人群的数量，将感染峰值尽量往后推迟，以免NHS不堪负荷。
The government believes that if the new crown virus continues to spread, it will not be able to prevent most people from getting infected, so scientists' mission is to slow down the process, reduce the number of people infected and delay the peak of infection as long as possible to avoid overloading the NHS.
他们利用数学模型来理解疾病的传播方式，其中帝国理工学院和伦敦敦卫生与热带医学院的建模结果在很大程度上为政府决策提供了依据。
They used mathematical models to understand how diseases spread, with modelling results from Imperial College of Technology and London's London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine largely informing government decision-making.
根据伦敦的帝国理工学院3月16日发布的一份报告，缓解和抑制是控制疫情的两种基本策略，前者是减缓但不一定彻底阻止流行病的传播，其重点在于降低对医疗需求的峰值，保护高风险人群免受感染；后者则希望扭转疫情增长局面，减少病例并使之维持在低的水平。
According to a report released on March 16 by the Imperial Institute of Technology in London, mitigation and containment are the two basic strategies for controlling the epidemic, the former being to slow but not necessarily halt the spread of the epidemic, the latter focusing on reducing the peak demand for health care and protecting high-risk populations from infection, and the latter aiming to reverse the epidemic's growth, reduce cases and keep them low.
英国最初决定采用缓解策略，其中的措施包括疑似病例居家隔离，老年人自我隔离等。
The UK initially decided to use mitigation strategies, including home isolation for suspected cases and self-segregation for the elderly.
但帝国理工的建模显示，这仍然可能导致数十万人死亡。
But Imperial Tech modelling shows that this could still cause hundreds of thousands of deaths.
抑制策略则需要结合整体人口的社会隔离，再辅以关闭学校。
Inhibiting strategies need to be combined with the social isolation of the population as a whole, supplemented by school closures.
英国政府在过去一周宣布的政策开始更多采纳抑制策略所需举措，希望通过不同的干预措施来减少病毒的传播途径。
The policy announced by the British government over the past week has begun to embrace more of the measures needed to curb the spread of the virus through a variety of interventions.
一个由行为心理学顾问组成的团队也参与了英国政府的决策。
A team of behavioral psychologists is also involved in the government's decision-making.
他们提出的“行为疲劳”理论使得政府在最初决定暂缓更严厉措施的出台。
Their theory of "behavioral fatigue" led the government to postpone tougher measures in the first place.
这一理论认为，如果太早采取限制，会导致人们对政策产生疲劳，等到疫情进入高峰时，人们已经开始松懈。
The theory is that if restrictions are adopted too soon, people will tire of policy, and by the time the epidemic reaches its peak, people will have begun to relax.
英国牛津大学流行病学教授陈铮鸣在接受《财经》记者专访时表示，英国政府在防疫第二阶段推出的政策是逐步的，早期举措蜻蜓点水，但更大力度的措施在计划之中，只是希望找到更好的时机来宣布，从而使其发挥最大的效果。
In an interview with Caijing, an epidemiologist at the University of Oxford, said the UK government's policy in the second phase of the epidemic was gradual, with early initiatives spreading themselves thinly, but more drastic measures were planned in the hope of finding a better time to announce them and maximize their impact.
在过去几天，英国政府的做法某种程度上印证了这一观点。
The British government's approach over the past few days confirms this view to some extent.
但数百名英国行为科学家对英国政府的做法存疑。
But hundreds of British behavioral scientists are skeptical of the British government's approach.
他们在上周发布的一封公开信中指出，对于行为疲劳这一理论在多大程度上适用于当前疫情的特殊情况，人们的认识还不够，由此推断的结论也不能令人信服。
In an open letter published last week, they said that the extent to which behavioural fatigue applies to the particular circumstances of the current epidemic is not well understood, and the inferences drawn from it are not convincing.
公开信还表示，对行为疲劳的担心使得政府认为遏制病毒传播是不可能的，只能是放缓传播进程，直到达成群体免疫。
The letter also said concerns about behavioral fatigue made it impossible for the government to halt the spread of the virus, but only to slow the spread of the virus until mass immunization was achieved.
“但激进的行为改变能达到的效果可以比这更好。
"But radical behavioural change can do better than that.
如果成功的话，能挽救大批人的生命。
If successful, it could save a large number of lives.
中国和韩国的经验都已经充分表明了这种可能性，至少我们应该尝试一下。
The experience of China and South Korea has amply demonstrated this possibility, at least we should try.
”“群体免疫”在经首席科学顾问瓦伦斯提出之后受到诸多质疑。
"Group immunity" was widely questioned after it was proposed by Chief Scientific Adviser Lawrence Walens.
瓦伦斯在接受英国媒体采访时表示，由于大部分新冠病毒感染人群呈现为轻症，他们在病愈后可以产生某种群体免疫；大约60%的英国人口在感染得到治愈后才能实现群体免疫。
In an interview with the British press, Varens said the majority of the newly infected population had mild cases and could develop some form of group immunity once they recovered; about 60 per cent of the British population was immunized against the group only after the infection had been cured.
这一理论经不同角度的解读引起诸多争议。
This theory has caused a lot of controversy through the interpretation of different angles.
英国免疫协会也持保留态度，并向政府发表了一封公开信。
The British Immunity Association also expressed reservations and issued an open letter to the Government.
信中指出，群体免疫的策略只有在脆弱人群得到保护的情况下才能发挥作用，否则后果严重。
The letter noted that group immunization strategies could only work if vulnerable populations were protected, without which the consequences would be severe.
此外，对新冠病毒仍存在未知的地方，人们并不知道它是否会对已感染人群产生长期的免疫力，因此预防感染才是更谨慎的做法。
Moreover, given that the new crown virus remains unknown and it is not known whether it will confer long-term immunity to those already infected, it would be more prudent to prevent infection.
“有不同声音是很正常的，政府需要决定听取哪一方的意见。
"It's normal to have different voices and the government needs to decide which side to listen to.
”海曼说，“这是一个全新的病毒，我们也不知道结果会是什么。
"It's a whole new virus, and we don't know what the result will be," he said.
我们会看到一些成功的策略，也会看到一些策略失败。
We will see some successful strategies and some policy failures.
”伦敦大学图书馆因为新冠病毒关门的通知（摄影：江玮）NHS如何应对新冠肺炎疫情使得NHS如临大敌，尤其英国仍处于冬季流感高发期。
University Library in London (photo: Jianwei) NHS's response to the new crown pneumonia outbreak has left the NHS on the brink of a severe winter flu outbreak, particularly in the UK.
NHS为英国民众提供免费医疗，但长期面临医疗资源紧张和医护人员短缺的压力。
The NHS provides free health care to the British population, but is under constant pressure from stretched medical resources and a shortage of health care workers.
为了避免造成更多人感染，NHS的第一道防线全科医生（GP）从3月初就发出通知，要求出现疑似症状的病人不要去社区诊所，而是应该拨打NHS电话111求助。
To prevent further infections, the NHS's first line of defense general practitioner (GP) issued a circular in early March asking patients with suspected symptoms not to go to community clinics, but to call NHS 111 for help.
在英国看病原本需要先和全科医生预约，到诊所就诊，然后由全科医生决定是否应该去医院接受进一步检查和治疗。
In the UK, appointments with a general practitioner are required before a general practitioner decides whether or not he or she should go to a hospital for further examination and treatment.
但这一流程并不适用于新冠病人。
But this procedure does not apply to new crown patients.
最初英国指定了30家医院接受新冠肺炎病人。
Initially, the UK designated 30 hospitals to receive new cases of pneumonia.
这些医院均设有传染病房，可以对病人进行隔离。
These hospitals are equipped with infectious disease rooms where patients can be isolated.
直到3月初，大部分确诊病人都在英格兰地区的五家医院接受治疗，其中两家位于伦敦，另外三家分别在利物浦、谢菲尔德和纽卡斯尔。
Until early March, most of the confirmed cases were treated in five hospitals in England, two in London and three in Liverpool, Sheffield and Newcastle.
在第一批指定的30家医院满员之后，更多医院将开始接受新冠病人。
Following the full capacity of the first 30 hospitals designated in the first batch, more hospitals will begin to receive new patients.
随着感染人数的不断上升，一些医院开始取消常规治疗，为新冠肺炎患者留出床位。
As the number of infections continues to rise, some hospitals have started to remove routine treatment and reserve beds for patients with pneumonia in the new crown.
根据中国武汉的经验，在入院接受治疗的新冠肺炎患者中，五分之一的人需要进重症监护病房（ICU）。
According to Wuhan, China, one in five admissions to the hospital for treatment for pneumonia requires intensive care (ICU).
在意大利，这一比例达到30%。
In Italy, the proportion reaches 30 per cent.
虽然意大利每10万人的ICU床位数为12.5，已经高于欧洲平均水平的11.5，但死亡率仍超过了10%。
Although the number of ICU beds per 100,000 people in Italy is 12.5, which is already above the European average of 11.5, the death rate still exceeds 10 per cent.
英国拥有的ICU数量处于欧洲平均线以下。
The UK has fewer ICUs than the European average.
统计数字显示，英国人均ICU的水平在31个欧洲国家中排在24位。
Statistics show that the UK ranks 24th out of 31 European countries in terms of per capita ICU.
即使在没有新冠肺炎疫情的情况下，英国的重症监护病房大多已被占用。
Even in the absence of a new Crown Pneumonia outbreak, Britain's intensive care unit has been largely occupied.
根据NHS在今年3月公布的数据，英格兰地区的ICU共有4123个，苏格兰地区为275个，威尔士153个，北爱尔兰88个。
According to NHS figures released in March, there are 4,123 ICUs in England, 275 in Scotland, 153 in Wales and 88 in Northern Ireland.
而截至2020年1月，英格兰地区的ICU已经有超过五分之四的床位被占用。
By January 2020, more than four-fifths of ICU beds in England were occupied.
对于新冠肺炎的重症患者，呼吸机和ECMO（人工肺）是维持生命的重要设备。
Respirators and ECMO (Artificial Lung) are vital life-sustaining devices in severe cases of new crown pneumonia.
但英国所有医院一共只配备了5000台呼吸机，ECMO的数量更是有限，目前只有伦敦、剑桥、曼彻斯特和莱斯特的五家医院提供。
But all hospitals in the UK are equipped with only 5,000 ventilators and the number of ECMO is limited, with only five hospitals in London, Cambridge, Manchester and Leicester.
英国政府希望能够尽快增加额外2万台呼吸机，卫生大臣汉考克16日在推特上呼吁能够生产呼吸机的制造商提供支持。
The British government hopes to add an additional 20,000 ventilators as soon as possible. Health Minister Hancock on Twitter on the 16th called for support from manufacturers who can make respirators.
和医疗资源紧张同时存在的问题还有医护人员保护措施的匮乏。
Along with the shortage of medical resources, there is also a lack of protective measures for medical personnel.
英国总工会近日向政府提出了五项主要诉求，其中包括为医护人员优先提供护目镜、温度计、口罩、消毒洗手液等。
The TUC has made five major appeals to the government, including giving priority to providing goggles, thermometers, masks and disinfectant hand sanitizers for health care workers.
一位在伦敦附近城市工作的NHS工作人员丹尼·麦考德莫特对《财经》记者表示，现在急救和非急救医护人员都面临口罩供应短缺的问题；很多救护车驾驶员没有口罩，只能寄希望于车里的病人只是感冒咳嗽，没有感染新冠病毒。
Danny McDermott, a NHS worker working in a city near London, told Caijing that emergency and non-emergency medical workers are facing a shortage of face masks; many ambulance drivers are not wearing masks and are hoping their patients are colds and coughs and are not infected with the new crown virus.
“我们连基本的口罩都缺乏，就像是没有枪去上战场。
"We don't even have basic masks. It's like we don't have a gun to go to war.
”他所在的医院最近一直在试图腾出更多床位为新冠疫情更大规模的暴发做准备。
His hospital has recently been trying to free up more beds for a larger outbreak of the new crown.
一些医护人员正在呼吁，对出现疑似症状的NHS员工优先进行检测。
Some health care workers are calling for priority testing of NHS staff for suspected symptoms.
按照英国目前的政策，即使是医护人员出现疑似新冠肺炎的迹象，如果是轻症也无法接受检测。
Under current UK policy, even medical staff showing signs of suspected pneumonia are not tested for mild illness.
一位接受BBC采访的医护人员表示自己在出现一些症状后正在自我隔离。
A medic interviewed by the BBC said he was isolating himself after showing some symptoms.
“NHS已经不堪重负。
"The NHS is overburdened.
如果对我们进行检测，结果显示没有感染，我们就可以在两三天后回到工作岗位，而不是要等14天。
If we were tested and found no infection, we could be back at work in two or three days instead of waiting 14 days.
”对麦考德莫特而言，让他担心的还有另一件事情：人们对即将到来的暴风雨不以为意，以为发生在其他国家的事情不会在自己身上发生，在囤积食物的同时却又无视保持社交距离的建议。
For McAldermot, there is another thing to worry about: people don't take kindly to the coming storm, thinking that what is happening in other countries will not happen to him, hoarding food while ignoring advice to maintain social distance.
《财经》实习生张丹对此文亦有贡献【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes the Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission. No third party may reproduce this work without authorization.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
直击英国缓疫策略：9天进入“拖延期”，ICU严重不足，暂不检测轻症患者。
Strike the British Plague Strategy: 9 days into the "delay period," the ICU is seriously deficient, temporarily not detect light patients.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "直击英国缓疫策略：9天进入“拖延期”，ICU严重不足，暂不检测轻症患者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "作为现代公共卫生的起源地，英国应对新冠肺炎疫情的机制备受关注。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Britain's response to the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic has been at the forefront of modern public health efforts.
但随着疫情的蔓延，英国的防疫策略也是最受争议的";。
But with the epidemic spreading, Britain's vaccination strategy has also been at its most controversial service.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
