专访余永定：中国经济如何做好逆周期调控？。
Interview with Yu Yongding: How can China's economy do a good job of countercyclical regulation?
王延春。
Wang Yanchun.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
基础设施投资既能在短期拉动需求，又能在长期增加供给。
Infrastructure investment can boost demand in the short term and supply in the long run.
真正需要考虑的问题是如何总结“四万亿”的经验教训，基础设施投资项目必须经过严格论证，地方政府投资行为必须规范，既不能搞政绩工程，也不能懒政怠政。
The real question to consider is how to sum up the "four trillion" lessons learned, infrastructure investment projects must be rigorously demonstrated, and local governments "investment behavior must be standardized.
认真研究应该如何确定基础设施投资项目、如何同地方政府协调组织投资的实施，以及如何为这些投资融资余永定。
Carefully examine how infrastructure investment projects should be identified, how investments can be implemented in coordination with local governments, and how these investments can be financed on a permanent basis.
图/中新文|《财经》记者 王延春编辑|苏琦2019年12月9日，余永定在《财经》杂志发表“中国经济增速下滑至6％，该刹车了”一文，提出他的思考：“经济增速持续下滑，当前需要不需要、值得不值得、能不能不让增速进一步下跌？”该问题在学界和政界引发了一场关于中国经济是否应该“保6”之辩。
"China's economy is slowing to 6%, it's time to brake," says Yu Yongding, a reporter for Caijing. "The economy continues to slow to 6%, and it's worth and worth it." The question has sparked a debate among academics and politicians about whether China's economy should be kept afloat.
应不应该遏制经济增长速度进一步下跌？值不值得执行扩张性的财政政策和宽松的货币政策以遏制经济增长速度的进一步下滑？存在不存在遏制经济增长速度的进一步下滑的宏观经济政策空间？就诸多问题，《财经》记者年初和近日两次专访了余永定教授，他就辩论中的一些焦点问题进行了回应。
Is it worth pursuing expansionary fiscal policy and easy monetary policy to arrest the further decline in economic growth? There is no macroeconomic policy space to arrest the further decline in economic growth.On a number of issues, Caijing journalists interviewed Professor Yu Yongding early this year and twice in recent days, and he responded to some of the issues at stake.
我们分上下篇陆续刊出，此文为下篇。
We continue to publish the next section, this article is the next.
《财经》：除了认为中国经济潜在增速在6％以下，因而不应“保6”之外，另外一种反对“保6”的重要理由是：中国的逆周期调控从未缺席。
Caijing: Apart from the fact that China's economy is expected to grow by less than 6% and should not be covered by 6%, another important argument against P-6 is that China's counter-cyclical controls have never been absent.
余永定：有观点认为，政府不仅在2009年－2010年推出四万亿刺激计划，而且在2015年下半年和2016年实施了宽松力度很大刺激政策，但效果不彰。
Mr. Yu: There are views that not only did the government launch a $4 trillion stimulus plan in 2009-2010, but also that it implemented a large stimulus package in the second half of 2015 and 2016, with little effect.
因而，再次启动刺激政策不但不能遏制经济增速的下降，反而会浪费政府不多的政策空间，并导致债务形势的恶化和金融脆弱性的增加。
Thus, instead of stemming the decline in economic growth, restarting stimulus policies would waste little government policy space and lead to a worsening debt situation and increased financial fragility.
是否可以说在2010年底2011年初退出扩张性财政、货币政策之后，中国政府又重新采取过较大规模的扩张性财政、政策呢？在2015年夏季达沃斯论坛上，李克强总理表示：“实施积极的财政政策是有空间的。
Can it be said that, after withdrawing from expansionary fiscal and monetary policies at the end of 2010 and early 2011, the Chinese government resumed expansionary fiscal and policy measures on a larger scale?
”财政部前部长楼继伟也在多个场合表示中央财政要适度加杠杆，以支持全社会降杠杆。
Lou Jiwei, a former finance minister, has said on several occasions that the central government needs to be moderately leveraged to support healthy leverage throughout society.
2015年下半年中国政府加大财政政策的扩张力度。
In the second half of 2015, the Chinese government increased fiscal policy expansion.
其结果是2015年中国政府财政赤字/GDP比从2014年的2.1％上升到2.36％。
As a result, the government's fiscal deficit / GDP ratio rose to 2.36% in 2015 from 2.1% in 2014.
2015年全年央行5次降低准备金率、5次降低银行存贷款基础利息率；信贷增速分别由5月的14％上升到12月的15.2％；广义货币增速由4月的10％上升到12月的13.3％。
In 2015, the central bank cut the reserve requirement ratio five times, lowering the interest rate on bank deposits and loans five times; the growth rate of credit rose from 14 percent in May to 15.2 percent in December, and the growth rate of broad money rose from 10 percent in April to 13.3 percent in December.
2015年二季度广义货币增速仅有10.13％，是十多年来的最低季度增速。
In the second quarter of 2015, broad-based money grew by only 10.13%, the slowest quarterly rate in more than a decade.
同正常年份相比，2015年信贷和广义货币的增速谈不上有什么超常的扩张。
Credit and broad money growth in 2015 can hardly be said to have expanded much faster than normal.
此外，还应看到2015年央行放松货币政策的主要目的不是刺激经济增长，而是稳定金融。
Moreover, it should be noted that the central bank's main objective in easing monetary policy in 2015 was not to stimulate economic growth, but to stabilize finance.
例如，央行6月27日降息、定向降准显然是为了稳定股市。
For example, the central bank cut interest rates and targeted cuts on June 27, apparently to stabilize the stock market.
2016年的全国财政赤字率为2.95％，确实比2015年有了比较明显的提高。
The national fiscal deficit rate of 2.95 per cent in 2016 is indeed a more significant improvement over 2015.
但财政部明确指出，扩大的赤字主要用于弥补减税降费带来的财政减收，保障政府应该承担的支出责任。
But the Treasury made it clear that the widening deficit was mainly to compensate for the fiscal cuts that came with the tax cuts and to protect the government's responsibility for spending.
此外，如果扩张性财政政策的目的是刺激经济增长，基础设施投资增速应该有明显提高。
Moreover, if expansionary fiscal policy is intended to stimulate economic growth, infrastructure investment should increase significantly.
但基础设施投资增速在2015年和2016年为17.2％和17.4％。
However, infrastructure investment grew by 17.2 per cent in 2015 and 17.4 per cent in 2016.
与此相对比，在大家并不认为实行了扩张性财政政策的2014年，基础设施投资增速为21.5％。
In contrast, infrastructure investment grew by 21.5 per cent in 2014, when expansionary fiscal policies were not considered to be in place.
事实上，基础设施投资增速的反弹发生在2012年。
Indeed, the rebound in infrastructure investment growth occurred in 2012.
由于经济增速出人意料地持续下滑，2012年5月份国家发改委批准了被称为“小型刺激计划”的数万亿元投资项目。
In May 2012, the National Development and Reform Commission approved trillions of dollars in investment projects, known as "mini-stimulus packages," owing to an unexpected and sustained decline in economic growth.
由于基础设施投资增速的迅速反弹和出口增速的回升，市场一度对2013年的经济增长前景普遍持乐观态度。
The outlook for economic growth in 2013 was generally positive as a result of the rapid rebound in infrastructure investment growth and the rebound in export growth.
2016年央行实施“稳健中性的货币政策”，其目标不是刺激经济增长，而是“平衡稳增长、调结构、抑泡沫和防风险之间的关系，为供给侧结构性改革营造适宜的货币金融环境”。
Instead of stimulating economic growth, the central bank's goal in 2016 is "to balance the relationship between stable growth, structural adjustment, bubble suppression, and risk prevention, and to create an appropriate monetary and financial environment for supply-side structural reforms."
2016年全年央行仅降准一次。
The central bank cut only once in 2016.
2016年金融机构一般贷款加权平均利率小幅下行。
The weighted average interest rate for general loans of financial institutions declined slightly in 2016.
2016年12月非金融企业及其他部门贷款加权平均利率为5.27％，与上年12月持平。
The weighted average interest rate on loans to non-financial businesses and other sectors was 5.27 per cent in December 2016, the same as in December of the previous year.
2016年末，金融机构本外币各项贷款余额同比增长12.8％，广义货币供应量同比增长 11.3％。
At the end of 2016, local and foreign currency loan balances of financial institutions grew 12.8 per cent year-on-year and broad money supply 11.3 per cent year-on-year.
从以上数据来看，2016年的货币政策确实是“稳健中性”，并无明显的扩张之处。
Judging from the above data, monetary policy in 2016 is indeed "prudent and neutral," with no significant expansion.
应该看到全球金融危机爆发以后，央行货币政策的松紧程度曾数度发生变化。
It should be noted that, since the onset of the global financial crisis, central bank monetary policy has changed several times.
但这种变化与其说是针对经济增速和通货膨胀的逆周期调节，不如说是对房地产周期的反应。
But the change is more a reaction to the housing cycle than to counter-cyclical adjustments to economic growth and inflation.
总之，我们难以根据过去十年中国宏观经济调控的经验而得出扩张性宏观经济政策无用的结论。
In short, it is difficult to draw the conclusion that expansionary macroeconomic policies are useless in the light of China's macroeconomic regulatory experience over the past decade.
相反，我以为我们的问题是低估了经济增长缺乏内在动力的长期性，过早退出刺激计划；在后来的几年中则是过于强调“供给侧结构性改革”并未针对经济增速的下滑坚持以扩张性的财政、货币政策应对之。
On the contrary, I thought our problem was to underestimate the long-term nature of the lack of intrinsic momentum in economic growth, and to exit the stimulus prematurely; in subsequent years, there was too much emphasis on "supply-side structural reforms" without insisting on expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in response to the slowdown.
《财经》：这次争论中，有学者认为，保增长的刺激效果在边际减弱。
Caijing: In this debate, some scholars believe that the stimulus effect of pro-growth is diminishing at the margin.
他们担心扩张性的财政政策会导致债务风险更加严重；宽松的货币政策意味着大水漫灌。
They worry that expansionary fiscal policy will lead to greater debt risk; loose monetary policy means flooding.
对这些批评您有何回应？余永定：的确，中国财政的实际状况比看起来的差，特别是地方政府有很多隐性债务。
How do you respond to these critiques? YU Yongding: Indeed, the actual state of China's finances is worse than it seems, especially since local governments have a lot of hidden debts.
但是，根据IMF测算，从2008年到2017年中国的财政赤字占GDP比的平均数是1.5％，和其他发达国家相比要低得多。
But, according to IMF estimates, China's fiscal deficit averaged 1.5% of GDP from 2008 to 2017, much lower than in other advanced economies.
还有一个指标是公共债务对GDP的比。
Another indicator is the ratio of public debt to GDP.
中国是40％多。
China has more than 40 per cent.
国际货币基金组织、世行估计的要高一些，测算为50％。
The International Monetary Fund and World Bank estimate is higher, at 50 per cent.
大家知道《马斯特里赫特条约》有两个标准，财政赤字占GDP比不能超过3％，公共债务占GDP比不能超过60％。
As you know, the Maastricht Treaty has two criteria: a fiscal deficit of no more than 3% of GDP, and a public debt of no more than 60% of GDP.
以这个3％和60％来对照，中国的财政状况是相当不错的。
Against this ratio of 3% to 60%, China's fiscal position is quite positive.
更何况3％和60％，两个指标也不是金科玉律。
Not to mention 3% and 60%, the two indicators are not a golden rule.
不少经济学家对中国财政状况的统计方法提出批评，这些批评不无道理。
Many economists criticize the statistical approach to China's fiscal position, and these criticisms are justified.
如果按IMF广义债务概念计算，中国政府财政赤字/GDP比和债务/GDP比会大幅度提升，但即便如此，中国的财政状况依然好于日本、美国等国家。
Even if the government's fiscal deficit / GDP ratio and debt / GDP ratio were to rise significantly under the IMF's broad concept of debt, China's fiscal position would still be better than that of countries like Japan and the US.
更重要的是我们应该以动态的观点看待债务问题。
It is even more important that we take a dynamic view of the debt problem.
债务的现状不是关键，关键是债务/GDP比的动态路径。
The status quo on debt is not the key; what matters is the dynamic path of the debt / GDP ratio.
要看当前的杠杆率，但更要看杠杆率的变动趋势。
It depends on the current leverage ratio, but also depends on the trend of changes in the leverage ratio.
这个问题比较复杂，需要深入研究，依靠简单外推是有问题的。
This is a complex issue that requires in-depth study, and reliance on simple extrapolation is problematic.
描述国债/GDP比动态路径的最常用公式是多恩布什提出的。
The most common formula used to describe the dynamic path of the national debt / GDP ratio is that proposed by Donne Bush.
我们可以利用一个等价的公式描述中国国债/GDP比的动态过程：国债/GDP的极限值=（财政赤字/GDP）/GDP增速，国债余额对GDP之比的变化过程，主要取决于两个量：（1）财政赤字对GDP之比；（2）是GDP增长速度。
An equivalent formula can be used to describe the dynamic process of China's public debt / GDP ratio: the limit for national debt / GDP = (fiscal deficit / GDP) / GDP growth, and the evolution of the ratio of the national debt balance to GDP depends largely on two measures: (1) the ratio of fiscal deficit to GDP; and (2) GDP growth.
不管当前的国债余额对GDP之比到底有多高，在假定财政赤字对GDP之比和经济增长速度为常数的情况下（如假定财政赤字对GDP之比为2％，GDP增长速度为7％），国债余额对GDP之比将趋于一个常数（2/7=28％）。
Regardless of the current debt-to-GDP ratio, the ratio of public debt to GDP tends to be constant (2 / 7 = 28 per cent), assuming a fiscal deficit to GDP ratio and a constant rate of economic growth (assuming a fiscal deficit to GDP ratio of 2 per cent and GDP growth of 7 per cent).
换句话说，国债/GDP的初始值高低不重要，重要的是保持足够高的经济增长速度和足够低的利息率。
In other words, the initial value of the national debt / GDP does not matter. It is important to maintain a sufficiently high rate of economic growth and a sufficiently low interest rate.
满足这两个条件，国债余额/GDP比就会趋于一个可以接受的稳定值。
When these two conditions are met, the debt-to-GDP ratio tends to be at an acceptable stable level.
根本不用担心债务危机。
Don't worry about the debt crisis.
例如，中国如果能够通过财政扩张政策使经济增长保持一个6％左右的增长速度，并通过扩张性货币政策使国债收益率保持尽可能低的水平，使财政赤字率保持3％左右的水平，中国的国债/GDP比的极限值就仅仅是50％，远低于《马斯特里赫特条约》标准。
For example, if China were able to sustain economic growth at a rate of about 6 per cent through fiscal expansion and maintain the Treasury bond yield at as low a rate as possible through expansionary monetary policy, with the fiscal deficit ratio remaining at around 3 per cent, the threshold for China's public debt / GDP ratio would be only 50 per cent, well below the Maastricht criteria.
《财经》：在您看来，目前地方债务问题尽管严重，但尚未失控？余永定：地方财政问题可能是中国经济的阿克琉斯之踵。
Caijing: In your opinion, although the local debt problem is serious, it is not out of control yet? Yu Yongding: The local financial problem may be the Achilles heel of China's economy.
但即便如此，根据官方公布的数据，2019年全国债务余额限额41.5万亿元；其中中央财政国债余额限额17.5万亿元；地方债务余额限额24万亿元，其中地方政府一般债务余额限额13.3万亿元、专项债务余额限额10.8万亿元。
But even so, according to official figures, the national debt balance limit for 2019 is 41.5 trillion yuan, of which 17.5 trillion yuan is the limit for the central treasury bond balance, and 24 trillion yuan is the local debt balance limit, of which 13.3 trillion yuan is the limit for local governments' general debt balance and 10.8 trillion yuan is the limit for special debt.
政府债务/GDP比大概在42％左右。
The government debt / GDP ratio is about 42 per cent.
地方债中令人担忧的主要是包括城投债、银行贷款、“非标”等的隐形债务。
Worryingly, local debts include urban debt, bank loans and "non-standard" debts.
由于各种原因，研究者对中国地方政府隐形债务数量的估算结果差别较大。
For a variety of reasons, the researchers' estimates of the amount of invisible government debt in China vary widely.
假设这一数量为40万亿元，则中国的政府债务/GDP比将急剧上升到80％。
Assuming that this amount is 40 trillion yuan, China's government debt / GDP ratio will rise sharply to 80%.
即便如此，中国的政府债务/GDP比仍然低于美国等许多发达国家。
Even so, China's government debt / GDP ratio remains below that of many developed countries, including the US.
因而，中国地方政府债务等最主要问题还不是当前的负债规模问题而是未来地方政府/GDP比的变化趋势问题，只要地方GDP增速能够超过地方债务的增速，地方债问题就不会威胁中国的经济稳定。
Thus, the most important issue in China, such as local government debt, is not the current level of indebtedness, but the future trend in the local government / GDP ratio, which will not threaten China's economic stability as long as local GDP growth outpaces the growth of local debt.
2019年下半年政府要求地方政府提前发行完毕2019年专项债、提前使用2020年的额度和扩大专项债作为资本金的使用范围等政策的推出，说明政府充分意识到抑制经济增长进一步下滑和辩证看待债务控制和经济增长之间关系的重要性。
The introduction in late 2019 of the Government's policy of requiring local governments to issue the 2019 special debt ahead of schedule, advance use of the 2020 quota and expansion of the use of earmarked debt as capital is indicative of the Government's full awareness of the importance of curbing further economic growth and dialectically viewing the relationship between debt control and economic growth.
2019年四季度经济增速略有回升同政府政策的调整应该不无关系。
A slight upturn in economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2019 should be linked to government policy adjustments.
2019年计划全国财政赤字2.76万亿元。
A national budget deficit of 2.76 trillion yuan is planned for 2019.
其中中央和地方财政赤字分别为1.83万亿元和0.93万亿元，赤字率为2.8％。
The central and local fiscal deficits were 1.83 trillion yuan and 0.93 trillion yuan, respectively, representing a deficit of 2.8 per cent.
与此同时，原计划的地方专项债务限额2.15万亿元，如果加上提前下达的最高可达1.29万亿元专项债额度，2019年专项债发放总额可达到3.44万亿元。
At the same time, the planned local debt ceiling of 2.15 trillion yuan, combined with the advance release of up to 1.29 trillion yuan of special-purpose debt, could reach a total of 3.44 trillion yuan in 2019.
如果把专项债也看作是地方政府的赤字融资，则地方财政赤字将达到4.37万亿元。
If special-purpose debt is also seen as deficit financing for local governments, the local fiscal deficit will reach 4.37 trillion yuan.
这样，中国2019年财政赤字对GDP之比将显著高于原计划的2.8％。
As a result, China's 2019 fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP will be significantly higher than the 2.8% originally planned.
虽然通过这种迂回方式增加政府财政赤字未必是一种好办法，但政府突破3％的马斯特里赫特标准的现实主义做法值得称赞。
While increasing the government's fiscal deficit in this roundabout way is not necessarily a good idea, the government's realistic approach of exceeding the Maastricht standard of 3% is commendable.
中国财政制度中有四个突出特点：第一，地方财政支出在政府支出中所占比重大大高于世界绝大多数国家；第二，中国财政收入主要依靠增值税（而非所得税），既缺乏累进性质又无法充当宏观经济自动稳定器；第三，财权与事权不对称，中国地方财政严重依赖土地出售，难以持续，一旦无地可售或受到限制，立即陷入入不敷出的窘境；第四，地方政府在基础设施投资的融资和组织实施过程中发挥着极为重要的作用。
Second, China's fiscal revenue relies mainly on value-added tax (rather than income tax), lacks progressivity and fails to act as an automatic macroeconomic stabilizer. Third, local finance is highly dependent on land sales and unsustainable.
中国财政体制的这些特点是造成当前中国地方政府财政窘境的重要原因。
These characteristics of China's financial system are an important reason for the current financial difficulties of local governments in China.
为了实现地方政府的可持续发展，中国的财政体制必须根据形势的发展加以改革。
In order to realize the sustainable development of local government, China's financial system must be reformed according to the development of the situation.
我对地方政府债务问题缺乏研究，不敢妄言应该改什么和怎么改。
I lack research on local government debt and dare not presume to talk about what to change and how.
我的感觉是，有些体制问题不可能在短期内得到解决，但有些问题则可以在短期内通过宏观经济政策，特别是货币政策的调整而得到解决或缓解。
My sense is that some institutional problems cannot be solved in the short term, but some can be solved or mitigated in the short term through macroeconomic policies, especially monetary policy adjustments.
例如，2019年在新增地方债券中用于置换旧债券（以新还旧）的发行额是用于为实际支出（用于基础设施投资等）融资的发行额的1.5倍左右。
For example, the amount issued in 2019 for the replacement of old bonds (old and new) in new local bonds was about 1.5 times the amount issued to finance actual expenditures (for infrastructure investments, etc.).
如果能够大大降低利息率则地方政府的债务负担就可以大幅度下降。
If interest rates could be reduced significantly, the local government's debt burden could be reduced substantially.
此外，改善地方政府的激励机制，使地方政府既有所作为又不乱作为是可能的。
In addition, it is possible to improve incentives for local governments to act both ways.
总之，目前的关键是不要因担心地方政府债务严重而不敢使用扩张性财政、货币政策。
In short, the key now is not to be deterred from using expansionary fiscal and monetary policies for fear of local-government debt.
否则，经济增速的进一步下降反而会使地方政府债务问题进一步恶化。
Otherwise, a further decline in economic growth would exacerbate the local-government debt problem.
在实施“刺激计划”的时候要求地方政府提供配套资金固然有其道理，但现在看来，投资资金来源应该主要是中央政府财政，财政赤字应该由中央政府发行国债弥补。
While it makes sense to require local governments to provide matching funds when implementing the "stimulus package," it now seems that the main source of investment funding should be central government finances, which should be financed by central government bonds.
中央不出钱或少出钱的做法副作用太大。
The central government's failure to pay or underspend has had too many side effects.
中央政府增发国债是一件一举多得的事情。
The central government's bond issue is one thing.
为了配合中央政府增发国债，央行也有必要进一步明显降低利息率。
In order to complement the central government's bond issue, the central bank also needs to further significantly reduce interest rates.
基础设施投资是否还有余地2020年2月12日，在福耀玻璃集团汽车玻璃生产车间，工人戴着口罩在查看玻璃。
Whether or not there is room for infrastructure investment On February 12, 2020, workers in the Fuyao Glass Group's auto-glass manufacturing plant were looking at the glass in masks.
图/新华《财经》：争议中，还有一个问题是关于中国基础设施。
Tu / Xinhua Caijing: Another issue in the controversy concerns China's infrastructure.
一些学者认为目前经过几轮扩大基础设施投资，已经没有多大余地。
Some scholars argue that there is little room for further infrastructure investment after several rounds.
您认为目前中国还有无增加基础设施投资的余地？余永定：在中、长期，基础设施投资可以通过提高生产效率、资本密集度和全要素生产率，提高经济的潜在增长速度。
Do you think there is room for more infrastructure investment in China at the moment? Mr. Yu: In the medium to long term, infrastructure investment can increase the economy's potential growth rate by increasing productivity, capital intensity and total factor productivity.
基础设施投资既能在短期刺激需求，又能在长期增加供给。
Infrastructure investment can both boost demand in the short term and supply in the long run.
真正需要考虑的问题是如何总结四万亿的经验教训，认真研究应该如何确定基础设施投资项目、如何同地方政府协调组织投资的实施，以及如何为这些投资融资。
The real question to be considered was how to draw lessons from the $4 trillion, how to identify infrastructure investment projects, how to coordinate the implementation of investment with local governments, and how to finance those investments.
最近，不少经济学家点明了可以考虑增加基建投资的一系列领域：乡村整治；农民工进城落户；老旧城区改造；失能老人照顾体系；职业教育扩招；高技术产业关键技术举国攻关；甲醇替代汽、柴油；固体废弃物“再利用”产业；集约化、规范化、设施化的农业；通用航空业；把淮河生态经济带作为国家第四增长极来建设；中心城市轨道交通网；城市增建停车场；海绵城市建设；冷链系统建设；特色小镇；水利设施治理与城市群建设相关的基础设施；基础科学研究，以及支撑产业向网络化、数字化、智能化方向发展的信息基础设施等等。
Recently, a number of economists have identified a series of areas in which to consider increasing investment in infrastructure: rural improvement; rural migrant workers moving into cities; old urban renewal; care system for the disabled; expansion of vocational education; key technologies for high-tech industries; methanol replacement steam and diesel; solid waste "recycling"; central urban rail; city parking; sponge city construction; cold chain construction; basic scientific research; and information infrastructure supporting industry's transition to networking, digitalization and intelligence.
对于这些看法我非常认同。
I quite agree with these views.
应该看到，尽管基础设施投资项目的短期商业回报可能非常低，甚至会长期亏损。
It should be noted that, while the short-term commercial returns on infrastructure investment projects may be very low, even long-term losses.
但其长期的社会经济回报是不应该低估的。
But the long-term socio-economic returns should not be underestimated.
《财经》：有学者担心，宏观经济调控和结构改革相互排斥。
Caijing: Some scholars worry that macroeconomic regulation and structural reform are mutually exclusive.
如何处理好经济增速与改革的关系？余永定：旨在使经济增长止跌、企稳的扩张性财政、货币政策，同“供给侧结构性改革”政策相矛盾，是目前一种比较流行的观点。
How to deal with the relationship between economic growth and reform? Yu Yongding: The expansionary fiscal and monetary policies aimed at bringing economic growth to a halt and stabilizing contradict the "supply-side structural reform" policy.
为了能让我们更好地进行供给侧结构性改革，我们让经济增长速度降下来，就可以从容不迫地、集中精力来推进供给侧改革。
In order to enable us to better pursue supply-side structural reforms, we can slow economic growth and concentrate on supply-side reforms in a deliberate manner.
这种说法并不完全错，但总体来讲我认为是不对的，因为这两者并不是一种互相排斥的关系，相反两者是相辅相成的。
This is not entirely wrong, but I think it is wrong in general, because the two are not mutually exclusive, but rather mutually reinforcing.
中国面对的经济问题错综复杂。
China's economic problems are complex.
这些问题包括增长方式问题、经济发展问题、产业政策问题、收入分配问题、就业问题、物价问题、国际收支平衡问题、需求结构问题、财政和货币政策问题、公司治理问题、社保问题等等。
These include growth patterns, economic development issues, industrial policy issues, income distribution issues, employment issues, price issues, balance-of-payments issues, demand structure issues, fiscal and monetary policy issues, corporate governance issues, social security issues, etc.
在讨论短期或长期经济增长问题时，为了方便，经济学家则往往把相关问题分为两大类：结构改革（structural reform）和宏观需求管理（或调控）。
When discussing short-term or long-term economic growth, economists tend, for convenience, to divide the issues into two broad categories: structural reform and macro-demand management (or regulation).
凡无法用宏观经济政策解决的（增长）问题就称之为结构问题。
Any problem that cannot be solved by macroeconomic policy is called a structural problem.
而为解决结构问题进行的改革则称之为结构改革。
Reforms to address structural problems are called structural reforms.
在西方国家，结构改革的内容包括深化资本市场、发展更为富有竞争性和灵活性的产品和劳动市场、培养熟练工人队伍、增加研发和新技术投资、降低准入门槛、简化审批制度、鼓励企业家精神等等。
In Western countries, structural reforms have included deepening capital markets, developing more competitive and flexible products and labour markets, developing a skilled workforce, increasing investment in research and development and new technologies, lowering entry barriers, simplifying licensing systems and encouraging entrepreneurship.
其最终目的是通过提高生产效率，提高潜在经济增长速度。
Its ultimate aim is to increase the potential rate of economic growth by increasing production efficiency.
西方国家所说的结构改革的内涵同我们所理解的结构改革是一致的，但中国式结构改革包含更多体制改革内容。
What the West says about structural reforms is consistent with what we understand to be structural reforms, but China-style structural reforms contain more institutional reforms.
与主要着眼于未来、内容繁复、手段多样的结构改革不同，宏观需求管理的目的是通过宏观经济政策影响需求总量，使现实经济增速同潜在经济增速保持一致，实现充分就业和产能的充分利用（“保增长”）。
Unlike structural reforms that focus primarily on the future, are complex in content and diverse in means, macro-demand management aims at influencing aggregate demand through macroeconomic policies, aligning real economic growth with potential economic growth, and achieving full employment and full utilization of productive capacity ("pro-growth").
宏观需求管理的目标比较单一，手段也比较规范。
The goal of macro-demand management is simple and the means are more standardized.
结构改革和宏观需求管理要解决两个不同层面的问题——前者见效慢但效果持久，主要解决长期潜在经济增长速度（可持续增长）下降问题；后者见效快但效果一般短暂，主要解决当期经济增长速度下降、产能过剩问题。
Structural reform and macro-demand management address two different dimensions - the former is slow-acting but long-lasting, and addresses the decline in long-term potential economic growth (sustainable growth); the latter is quick-acting but generally short-lived, and addresses the current slowdown in economic growth and excess capacity.
还需指出的是：结构改革和宏观需求管理相辅相成，并不相互排斥。
It is also important to note that structural and macro-demand management are complementary and not mutually exclusive.
经济学是关于选择的学问，选择必定是同一层面问题形成一种矛盾之后再进行选择。
Economics is about the choice of knowledge, the choice must be the same level of problems form a contradiction before making a choice.
宏观经济调控和结构改革是不同视角、不同层面的东西，并且不存在矛盾关系。
Macroeconomic regulation and structural reform are different perspectives and different levels, and there is no contradiction between them.
在某些具体问题上，可能存在一个短期和长期之间的利弊取舍问题。
There may be a trade-off between the short and long term on specific issues.
如何取舍则需具体问题具体分析。
How to choose between them needs to be analyzed concretely.
结构改革主要解决长期问题，但不意味着可以忽视短期问题。
Structural reforms primarily addressed long-term problems, but did not mean that short-term problems could be ignored.
经济增长速度太低，很多改革就难以推行。
Economic growth has been too slow and many reforms have been difficult to implement.
有了经济增长很多结构性问题就变得容易解决了。
With economic growth, many structural problems are easily solved.
历史经验告诉我们，经济增长速度持续下降到一定程度，所有结构性指标、金融指标都会恶化。
Historical experience tells us that the rate of economic growth continues to decline to a certain extent, all structural indicators, financial indicators will deteriorate.
总之，经济增长不能代替经济体制改革和结构调整，但却可以为改革和调整争取时间。
In short, economic growth cannot be a substitute for economic reform and structural adjustment, but it can buy time for reform and adjustment.
在某些特定时期，在某些特定条件下，不进行体制改革、结构调整就没有经济增长。
At certain times, under certain conditions, there can be no economic growth without institutional reform and structural adjustment.
但中国目前并非处于这样一种不首先完成某种改革和调整，经济就无法增长的状态。
But China is not in a situation where it cannot grow without first completing some kind of reform and adjustment.
“供给侧结构性改革”已经成为政治正确的代名词。
"Supply-side structural reforms" have become synonymous with political correctness.
大家都言必称“供给侧结构性改革”。
Everyone speaks of "supply-side structural reforms."
“供给侧结构性改革”的重要性自不待言。
The importance of "supply-side structural reforms" is self-evident.
但跳过从“供给侧结构性改革”（或供给侧结构性改革的某一特定方面）到经济增速下降（如由7％下降到6％）的因果关系的诸多中间环节，直接把中国经济增速下降的原因笼而统之地归咎于“供给侧结构性改革”滞后并不能解决任何问题、更提不出切实可行的相应的政策建议。
But skipping the middle ground from "supply-side structural reforms" (or a particular aspect of supply-side structural reforms) to a decline in economic growth (say, from 7% to 6%), blaming the "supply-side structural reforms" lags far behind in addressing none of the problems, let alone offering practical policy recommendations.
以推进“供给侧结构性改革”为由，否定采取扩张性宏观经济政策的必要性和急迫性只会使我们贻误战机，并使“供给侧结构性改革”变得更加困难。
To deny the necessity and urgency of expansionary macroeconomic policies on the pretext of promoting "supply-side structural reforms" would only make it harder to delay "supply-side structural reforms."
在这方面日本也给我们提供了很好的经验教训。
Japan has also provided us with good lessons in this regard.
自上世纪90年代以来，日本政府为了克服泡沫经济崩溃的后遗症，大张旗鼓地进行了 “供给侧结构性改革”。
Since the 1990 "s, the Japanese government has aggressively pursued" supply-side structural reforms "to overcome the legacy of the bubble's collapse.
我和社会科学院的同事在1990年后期就开始介绍日本的“供给方面结构性调整”（“供给侧”是日文的汉字用法）。
Back in the late 1990 "s, my colleagues and I at the Academy of Social Sciences began to talk about Japan's" supply-side structural adjustment "(the Japanese Chinese language for" supply side ").
日本政府提出的供给侧结构性改革内容十分广泛，其中包括：核销不良债权、加速金融自由化、改善公司治理结构、发展信息产业等。
The supply-side structural reforms proposed by the Japanese government are broad, including the write-off of bad debts, accelerated financial liberalization, improved corporate governance, and the development of the information industry.
有些日本学者甚至提出改革日本的“二元”政治、经济体制的主张。
Some Japanese scholars even put forward the idea of reforming Japan's "dualistic" political and economic system.
日本首相21世纪目标委员会在2000年1月发表报告，提出全球化、全球化素质、IT革命、科学进步以及出生率下降和人口老龄化是日本在21世纪面对的五大挑战。
In its report published in January 2000, the Japanese Prime Minister's Commission on Objectives for the Twenty-first Century identified globalization, the quality of globalization, the IT revolution, scientific progress and declining birth rates and population ageing as the five major challenges facing Japan in the twenty-first century.
日本举国上下大力推进结构改革的决心以及日本政府推出的一系列具体政策给我们留下深刻印象。
We are impressed by the determination of the entire nation to push ahead with structural reforms and by the series of specific policies launched by the Japanese Government.
2000年9月我们在一篇介绍日本“供给侧结构性改革”的文章中写道：“日本人痛定思痛，重新对自己的政治经济制度、赶超战略、产业政策等等进行全面的检讨。
In September 2000, in an article on Japan's "supply-side structural reforms," we wrote: "The Japanese are deeply saddened to re-examine their political and economic institutions, catch-up strategies, industrial policies, etc.
”“越来越多的日本学者对‘日本模式’持批评态度，主张崇尚自由竞争、强调个人创造力的‘美国模式’。
"" A growing number of Japanese scholars are critical of the Japanese model, arguing for an 'American model' of free competition and individual creativity.
”然而，奇迹并未出现，日本在丧失了第一个十年之后，又丧失了第二个十年。
However, miracles did not occur, and Japan lost another decade after losing its first.
安培政府上台后，日本政府又重新回到扩张性的财政、超宽松的货币政策，到2016年又开始执行负利率政策。
After Ampere's government came to power, the Japanese government returned to expansionary fiscal and ultra-loose monetary policy, and began to implement a negative interest-rate policy by 2016.
安培“三支箭”中的第三支——“结构改革”似乎仍踪迹难寻。
"Structural reform," the third of Ampere's "three arrows," still seems elusive.
日本朝野强调“供给侧结构性改革”的重要性已经20年有余，但日本现在的经济增速同90年代相比并未有明显变化。
Japan's North Korean government has stressed the importance of "supply-side structural reforms" for more than two decades, but Japan's economy is now growing at no significant rate compared with the 1990 "s.
可见“供给侧结构性改革”也不是灵丹妙药。
So "supply-side structural reform" is no panacea.
但是，可以设想，如果没有2000年初以来的超宽松财政、货币政策和现在的负利息率政策，日本的经济形势肯定更为糟糕。
It is conceivable, however, that Japan's economic situation would certainly have been worse had it not been for ultra-loose fiscal and monetary policies since the beginning of 2000 and now a negative interest rate policy.
在这里，我想强调我绝对没有贬低“供给侧结构性改革”重要性的意思。
Here, I would like to emphasize that I do not in any way diminish the importance of "supply-side structural reform."
但结构改革是长期的、不可能毕其功于一役；停滞不前和反复也是难以避免的。
But structural reform is long-term and cannot be achieved in one go; stagnation and reversals are inevitable.
在处理改革和增长关系时，要具体问题具体分析。
The relationship between reform and growth needs to be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
只要还有政策空间，我们就不应放弃使经济增速尽可能高一些的努力。
As long as there is policy space, we should not abandon efforts to make economic growth as high as possible.
《财经》：过去几年实际上采取的财政和货币政策总体上是收缩性而非扩张性的，这主要是对2009年强刺激政策批评的防御性反应。
Caijing: The fiscal and monetary policies actually adopted over the past few years have been generally contractionary rather than expansionary, mainly in response to the 2009 strong policy criticism.
您怎么看四万亿的教训？余永定：尽管存在许多问题，2009年－2010年的四万亿刺激计划是完全必要的，效果也是显著的。
Mr. Yu: Despite the many problems, the $4 trillion stimulus package for 2009-2010 is absolutely necessary and effective.
现在看来，四万亿的主要问题是退出过早。
The main problem with the $4 trillion now seems to be premature withdrawal.
2009年中国财政赤字/GDP比由2008年的0.8％上升到2.7％。
China's fiscal deficit / GDP ratio rose to 2.7 per cent in 2009 from 0.8 per cent in 2008.
但是，到2011年和2012年这一比重便降低到1.7％和1.5％。
By 2011 and 2012, however, that share had fallen to 1.7 per cent and 1.5 per cent.
与此同时，年新增信贷由2009年的9.59万亿元下降到2010年和2011年的7.95万亿元和7.47万亿元。
At the same time, annual new credit increased from 9.59 trillion yuan in 2009 to 7.95 trillion yuan and 7.47 trillion yuan in 2010 and 2011.
信贷的增长速度也相应急剧下降。
The rate of credit growth has correspondingly declined sharply.
广义货币的增长速度从2011年开始低于危机前的增速。
Growth in broad money has been slower since 2011 than it was before the crisis.
而银行间拆借市场上的各种利息率则从2011年就开始超过危机前的水平。
Interest rates in the interbank lending market have been above pre-crisis levels since 2011.
作为刺激计划关键的基础设施投资增速由2009年二季度的51％下降到2012年一季度的1.8％。
Infrastructure investment, a key component of the stimulus package, declined from 51 per cent in the second quarter of 2009 to 1.8 per cent in the first quarter of 2012.
在全球金融危机开始之时用力过猛，在经济元气尚未恢复之时便匆忙退出，经济增速自然会重新下降，而且还催生了影子银行活动的快速发展。
A sharp start to the global financial crisis and a precipitous exit before the economy recovers will naturally lead to a renewed decline in economic growth and to a rapid expansion of shadow banking activity.
对比美日欧的扩张性财政货币政策，可以清楚地看到，中国扩张性财政货币政策的退出快得多、早得多。
In contrast to expansionary fiscal and monetary policies in the US, Japan, and Europe, it is clear that China's expansionary fiscal and monetary policy exit has been much faster and much earlier.
宏观调控不能一会踩油门、一会踩刹车。
Macro control can not step on the accelerator, one step on the brakes.
这应该是一条重要的经验教训。
This should be an important lesson.
总之，中国的四万亿计划退的太早，因为大家都担心这四万亿对经济结构产生不利影响。
In short, China's $4 trillion plan is falling too soon, owing to concerns that the $4 trillion would adversely affect the economy's structure.
但是我们退出过早，还没等内生力量修复就退出，以后经济增长就会有问题。
But we exit too early, before the endogenous healing takes hold, and growth will be in question.
对宏观调控的反思与再认识2020年2月12日，在位于杭州市余杭区的浙江春风动力股份有限公司的员工餐厅，工人在临时制作的小隔间内用餐。
Rethinking and Rethinking Macro-control On Feb. 12, 2020, workers eat in makeshift cubicles at the staff restaurant of Zhejiang Chunfeng Power Co., Ltd., located in Yuhang District, Hangzhou.
该公司是浙江省重点外贸企业，属于杭州市第一批复工企业。
The company is the key foreign trade enterprises in Zhejiang Province, belonging to Hangzhou first resumption of industrial enterprises.
图/新华《财经》：记得您以前是反对使用或主张慎用扩张性的财政、货币政策，为什么2015年之后逐渐调整了自己的观点，并在不同场合提出自我批评？余永定：最近，我在编一本文集。
Photo / Xinhua Finance: Remember that you were against the use or advocacy of expansionary fiscal and monetary policies before, why did you gradually adjust your views after 2015 and make self-criticism on different occasions? YU Yongding: Recently, I was compiling a collection of essays.
这本文集包含了我1995年从英国回国后撰写的关于宏观调控的论文，涵盖了差不多30年来我对于宏观问题的研究过程。
This collection of papers on macro regulation, written after my return from the UK in 1995, covers my research on macro issues for almost 30 years.
在整理过程中，我把所有有关这方面的论文重新看了一遍，很有体会和感触。
In the process of finishing, I will be all about this aspect of the paper read again, very experience and feeling.
最后，我决定把本篇论文集的题目定为《太阳之下无新事》。
Finally, I decided that the title of this collection of essays would be "Nothing New Under the Sun."
为什么呢？我发现我们现在讨论的许多问题，包括自己参与讨论的许多问题，在20年前甚至20多年前我们就已经说过了，而且说的话跟现在一模一样。
I find that many of the issues we are discussing, including many of those in which we are engaged, were already said 20 or more years ago, and we say exactly what we are saying.
所以，研究“经济研究史”对于学经济学的人来讲非常重要。
Therefore, the study of the "history of economic research" is very important to those who study economics.
大家接受正规的经济学训练，喜欢搞模型甚至很复杂的模型，这些东西固然有用，但真正要对一个国家的经济提出接地气的政策建议，积累研究经济问题的“实践经验”更重要。
While it is useful to have formal training in economics and a taste for models and even sophisticated models, it is really important to make grounded policy recommendations for a country's economy and to accumulate "hands-on experience" in studying economic problems.
我今年71岁，我的长处是经历过了一两个完整的经济“周期”。
I am 71 years old, and my strong point is that I have experienced one or two full economic "cycles."
我对自己过去的许多想法包括一些主流想法重新做了思考，我对过去的一些流行观点提出批评，这个批评也是对我自己的批评。
I have rethought many of my past thoughts, including some mainstream ones, and I have criticized some of the popular ideas of the past, which is also a criticism of myself.
人总要不断地重新认识自己，甚至要“扬弃”自己以往一些坚信不移的想法。
One has to constantly rediscover one's self, even to "discard" some of one's previous strong and unshakeable ideas.
在宏观经济政策问题上，我感觉自己主要犯过三次比较严重的错误。
When it comes to macroeconomic policy, I feel like I've made three major mistakes.
第一个是在2007年下半年主张采取紧缩性的货币政策。
The first was the advocacy of tight monetary policy in the second half of 2007.
当时我虽然已经知道美国出现了次贷危机将对美国造成冲击，但因为中国的通货膨胀比较严重（2008年2月份中国的CPI为8.2％）。
I knew then that a subprime crisis in the United States would hit the US, but because inflation in China was high (8.2% CPI in February 2008).
囿于过去的经验，我主张采取紧缩性的货币政策把通胀率降下来。
Given past experience, I would argue for a contractionary monetary policy to bring inflation down.
但随全球金融危机的爆发，通货膨胀率急剧下跌，2009年2月CPI负增长，其间根本没有经过货币紧缩环节。
However, with the onset of the global financial crisis, inflation plummeted, with negative CPI growth in February 2009, with no monetary tightening at all.
事实证明，通货膨胀（或收缩）并不一定是货币现象。
It turns out that inflation (or contraction) is not necessarily a monetary phenomenon.
第二个是对四万亿刺激计划的判断有误。
The second is that the $4 trillion stimulus package was misjudged.
当初我对四万亿也提出过不少批评，主张退出四万亿越早越好，这样好腾出精力继续进行结构改革。
I was also critical of $4 trillion, arguing that leaving the $4 trillion earlier would be better, freeing up the energy to continue structural reforms.
现在来看，中国退出刺激计划过急了。
For now, China's exit from the stimulus is too quick.
第三个是由于没有估计到房地产投资会回升，我认为2016年经济增长速度会继续下滑，没想到2016年经济增速反弹、10月PPI由负转正。
Third, because real-estate investment is not expected to pick up, I expect economic growth to continue to decline in 2016, but I did not expect economic growth to rebound in 2016, and PPI from negative to positive in October.
虽然2018年经济增速又下降，2019年7月PPI重新为负，大判断虽然正确，小判断是不准的。
While economic growth fell again in 2018, and PPI was negative again in July 2019, big judgments, while correct, are inaccurate.
另外，关于要不要把资产价格作为中央银行的货币政策目标，这个在国际上讨论非常热烈的问题，到现在也没有最终结论。
Moreover, the question of whether to make asset prices a central bank's monetary-policy objective has been hotly debated internationally, and so far there is no definitive conclusion.
在金融危机之前，我没有自己的立场，我觉得各种观点都有道理。
Before the financial crisis, I had no position of my own, and I felt that all points of view made sense.
经过这么多年，我开始有自己的立场了，我认为不应该把资产价格作为央行的货币政策目标。
After all these years, I've come to take a stand, and I don't think asset prices should be the central bank's monetary policy target.
（下篇）相关阅读：余永定：保6的逻辑没有变，当前重心是作好控疫与复产衔接经济增速已滑至6％，该刹车了▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The economy has slipped to 6%. Click on the picture to see more details about the epidemic. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访余永定：中国经济如何做好逆周期调控？。
Interview with Yu Yongding: How can China's economy do a good job of countercyclical regulation?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "专访余永定：中国经济如何做好逆周期调控？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "基础设施投资既能在短期拉动需求，又能在长期增加供给。
var msg _ desc = & quot; infrastructure investment has both boosted demand in the short term and increased supply in the long run.
真正需要考虑的问题是如何总结“四万亿”的经验教训，基础设施投资项目必须经过严格论证，地方政府投资行为必须规范，既不能搞政绩工程，也不能懒政怠政";。
The real question to consider is how to summarize the "$4 trillion" in lessons learned, infrastructure investment projects must be rigorously demonstrated, and local-government investment behavior must be regulated, and neither successful projects nor lazy administration and quot;
title: '经济增速已滑至6％，该刹车了',。
AT & amp; P; T: The economy has slipped to 6%, and has braked & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '余永定：保6的逻辑没有变，当前重心是作好控疫与复产衔接',。
Ren Ryongding: The logic at Bao 6 has not changed. Its current focus is on disease control and rehabilitation.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '经济增速已滑至6％，该刹车了',。
AT & amp; P; T: The economy has slipped to 6%, and has braked & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '财经杂志',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
