特朗普向欧洲宣战｜巴伦独家。
Trump declared war on Europe alone.
特朗普向欧洲宣战｜巴伦独家。
Trump declared war on Europe alone.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 巴伦。
The following article comes from Barents.
Author 加德纳。
Author Gardner.
巴伦。
Baron.
中国最具影响力的财经新闻媒体《财经》携手道琼斯媒体集团，引入百年历史的《巴伦》（Barron's）独家内容，打造涵盖全球金融信息、市场动态、行业分析、公司研究及理财顾问评估的全球投资平台。
China's most influential financial news media, Caijing, teamed up with Dow Jones Media Group to introduce the 100-year-old Barron & amp; apos; s exclusive content to create a global investment platform that covers global financial information, market dynamics, industry analysis, corporate research and financial advisory assessments.
。
.
文｜安东尼 · 卢扎托 ·加德纳编辑｜彭韧编者按：这是一篇来自前美国驻欧盟大使安东尼 · 卢扎托 · 加德纳的评论，他严厉批评了特朗普近期的演讲，并且称之为“向欧洲宣战”，他认为特朗普背离了美国60年来支持欧洲一体化的两党外交政策，这些观点跟他近日即将出版的书《带条纹的星星: 欧盟和美国的基本伙伴关系》一脉相承。
2007-11-31 00: 00 Article: Anthony Luzato Gardner, former US ambassador to the European Union, criticized Trump's recent speech and called it a "declaration of war on Europe," arguing that Trump has deviated from 60 years of US bipartisan foreign policy in favor of European integration, consistent with his recent book Stars with Stripes: The Basic Partnership between the European Union and the United States.
唐纳德 · 特朗普总统再次向欧洲宣战。
President Donald Trump has again declared war on Europe.
在关于冠状病毒的全国讲话中，特朗普尖锐地指出，欧洲在美国“播种”了一些感染病毒的地方，因此他将停止从那里直飞的航班。
In his national speech on coronavirus, Trump pointedly pointed out that Europe had "planted" some places in the US where the virus had been infected, so he would stop direct flights from there.
欧洲再一次成为了他的魔鬼。
Europe is once again his devil.
很难找到另一个例子，说明美国总统在没有事先协商的情况下，以侮辱性和单方面的方式做出如此重要的决定，给关键盟国带来严重后果。
It is difficult to find another example of the humiliating and unilateral manner in which the President of the United States took such an important decision without prior consultation, with serious consequences for key allies.
这种相互指责是一个戏剧性的例子，说明美国总统在其任期内是如何一再轻视和削弱美国最重要的伙伴的。
This recrimination is a dramatic example of how the US president, during his presidency, has repeatedly belittled and weakened America's most important partner.
他对我们的欧洲盟友的困境毫不同情，其中一些国家，尤其是意大利，正处于戏剧性的人道主义紧急情况的阵痛之中。
He has no sympathy for the plight of our European allies, some of whom, Italy in particular, are in the throes of dramatic humanitarian emergencies.
他没有提供任何领导力来团结全球伙伴关系来解决这场危机，在这场危机中，我们的欧洲盟友将是至关重要的伙伴。
He has not provided any leadership to unite a global partnership to resolve this crisis, in which our European allies will be crucial partners.
相比之下，在2014年至2015年的西非埃博拉危机期间，美国和欧盟密切合作，成功阻止了感染的蔓延。
By contrast, during the Ebola crisis in West Africa from 2014 to 2015, the United States and the European Union worked closely to halt the spread of the infection.
他的演讲看起来赤裸裸的政治化: 他豁免了英国和爱尔兰这两个被我们视为特殊伙伴的国家，尽管这两个国家都有很多病例，而且正处于欧洲大陆邻国经历的几何扩张的早期阶段。
His speech looked nakedly politicized: he exempted Britain and Ireland, two countries we consider special partners, despite the high number of cases in both countries and in the early stages of the geometric expansion experienced by our continental neighbours.
不言而喻，欧洲大陆的人在飞往美国之前可以先去英国和爱尔兰旅行。
It goes without saying that continental Europeans can travel to Britain and Ireland before flying to the United States.
持有美国护照的人可以免受旅行禁令的限制，即使他们很可能会感染。
Holders of United States passports are exempt from the travel ban, even if they are likely to become infected.
此外，关闭航空旅行的政策忽略了一个显而易见的事实，即病毒已经在美国蔓延，而且正在迅速增长。
Moreover, the policy of closing air travel ignores the obvious fact that the virus has spread in the United States and is growing rapidly.
这种策略只是为了转移人们对迄今为止国内应对措施明显不足的指责。
Such tactics are merely designed to deflect accusations that the domestic response so far has been patently inadequate.
总统的演讲仅仅是对欧洲多次攻击的高潮。
The president's speech was just the culmination of a series of attacks on Europe.
特朗普背离了美国60年来支持欧洲一体化的两党外交政策，因为这不仅有利于欧洲，也有利于美国的利益。
Trump has departed from 60 years of US bipartisan foreign policy in favor of European integration, because it is in America's interest as well as Europe's.
当我在奥巴马总统的第二个任期担任美国驻欧盟大使时，我觉得我在继续这个明智的政策。
When I served as US Ambassador to the EU during President Barack Obama's second term, I felt I was continuing this wise policy.
正如我在即将出版的书中所描述的那样，我见证了欧盟在许多地区乃至全球关注的领域是一个关键的合作伙伴，包括气候变化、外国援助和人道主义援助、制裁、执法、改革世界贸易组织，以及迫使中国在世界贸易中公平竞争。
As I describe in my forthcoming book, I have witnessed the EU being a key partner in many areas, even globally, including climate change, foreign aid and humanitarian aid, sanctions, law enforcement, reform of the World Trade Organization, and forcing China to compete fairly in world trade.
特朗普总统撕毁了剧本，给美国、我们的盟友乃至全世界带来了极其严重的后果。
President Trump tore up the script, with dire consequences for the US, our allies, and the world.
尽管英国脱欧无疑损害了美国的许多关键利益，但他一直是英国脱欧的大力支持者。
Although Brexit has undoubtedly harmed many of America's key interests, he has been a strong supporter of Brexit.
让英国加入欧盟显然是有益的，因为伦敦在许多问题上与我们在哲学上是如此一致。
Bringing Britain into the EU is clearly beneficial, because London agrees with us philosophically on many issues.
他敦促英国背离欧盟的规定，首相鲍里斯 · 约翰逊似乎欢迎这一建议，尽管许多美国企业几十年来一直在英国投资，认为英国将继续与欧盟的规定保持一致。
He urged Britain to deviate from EU rules, a suggestion that Prime Minister Boris Johnson seems to welcome, even though many US companies have invested in the UK for decades and believe the UK will continue to be in line with EU rules.
他在欧洲推行民粹主义、民族主义和欧洲怀疑论政党，同时在世界各地拥护威权主义国家。
He promoted populist, nationalist, and Euroskeptic parties in Europe, while championing authoritarian states around the world.
特朗普总统对欧盟的看法是漫画式的讽刺: 这是一个功能失调的组织，完全由德国主导，成立的目的只是为了在贸易上击败美国。
President Trump's view of the EU is a caricature: a dysfunctional organization, dominated entirely by Germany, set up solely to defeat the US in trade.
他痛恨欧盟扩大其较小成员国影响力的事实，他宁愿与这些国家进行双边和交易，以最大限度地扩大美国的影响力。
He hates the fact that the EU has expanded the influence of its smaller members, with whom he prefers bilateral and trade deals in order to maximize US influence.
美国肯定与欧盟存在严重分歧，尤其是在阻碍美国农产品出口的问题上。
The United States is certainly deeply divided with the European Union, especially on the issue of hampering US agricultural exports.
在我担任外交官期间，我与我的两位前任一样，进行了许多这样的斗争。
During my tenure as a diplomat, I have waged many such struggles, as have my two predecessors.
但是，认为只有欧盟(而不是美国)对跨大西洋贸易施加限制的说法完全是误导。
But the claim that only the EU, not the US, imposes restrictions on transatlantic trade is misguided.
在这种关系中完全关注商品贸易，而忽视美国在服务业中的巨大顺差，也是荒谬的。
It is also absurd to focus exclusively on commodity trade in this relationship, while ignoring the large US surplus in services.
此外，没有哪届政府会以钢铁、铝或汽车进口关税威胁欧盟，理由是这些进口产品在和平时期构成国家安全风险。
Moreover, no government would threaten the EU with import tariffs on steel, aluminium, or cars, on the grounds that these imports pose a national-security risk in peacetime.
与欧洲联盟的持续战争削弱了美国实现其目标的能力，不仅在与病毒作斗争方面，而且在许多其他领域也是如此。
The continuing war with the European Union has reduced the ability of the United States to achieve its goals, not only in the fight against the virus, but in many other areas as well.
最大的错觉是，美国可以在不与欧盟密切合作的情况下直面其真正对手——中国。
The biggest illusion is that the US can confront its real adversary - China - without working closely with the EU.
在今后许多年里，我们都将为这种故意视而不见的做法付出代价。
For many years to come, we will all pay the price for this wilful blindness.
安东尼 · 卢扎托 · 加德纳(Anthony Luzzatto Gardner)在2014-2017年期间担任美国驻欧盟大使。
Anthony Luzzatto Gardner served as United States Ambassador to the European Union for the period 2014-2017.
他的书《带条纹的星星: 欧盟和美国的基本伙伴关系》将于4月由帕尔格雷夫·麦克米兰出版社出版。
His book Stars with Stripes: A Basic Partnership between the European Union and the United States will be published by Palgrave Macmillan in April.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特朗普向欧洲宣战｜巴伦独家。
Trump declared war on Europe alone.
特朗普告诉美国人“没事”的时候，国会大佬就警告自己人真相“惊恐”，还偷卖股票！                                        特朗普告诉美国人“没事”的时候，国会大佬就警告自己人真相“惊恐”，还偷卖股票！                          ...                                                环球网                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对不感兴趣                           特朗普，阳了？？                                        特朗普，阳了？？                          ...                                                当时我就震惊了                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对特朗普不感兴趣                           搞乱美国，特朗普干的漂亮！                                        搞乱美国，特朗普干的漂亮！                          ...                                                中美俄                    不喜欢        不看的原因 OK     内容质量低 不看此公众号 对特朗普不感兴趣         。
When Trump tells Americans "nothing's wrong," he warns them of the truth and steals stock! When Trump tells Americans "nothing's wrong," Congress bosses warn Americans "it's OK" and steal stock!
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "特朗普向欧洲宣战｜巴伦独家";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Trump declared war on Europe, exclusive with & quot;;
var msg_desc = "在关于冠状病毒的全国讲话中，特朗普尖锐地指出，欧洲在美国“播种”了一些感染病毒的地方，因此他将停止从那里直飞的航班。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in his national speech on the coronavirus, Trump pointedly stated that Europe "sowed" some infected places in the US, so he will stop direct flights from there.
欧洲再一次成为了他的魔鬼";。
Europe has once again been his devil and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
