对话首批支援武汉中心医院医疗队队长：我们如何做到医护零感染。
Dialogue One Support Wuhan Central Hospital Medical Team Leader: How can we do zero infection?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
从1月28日到3月20日，蔡辉带领甘肃医疗队137人在武汉市中心医院完成了防疫救治援助工作。
From January 28 to March 20, Cai Hui led 137 members of the Gansu medical team to complete epidemic prevention and treatment assistance at Wuhan Central Hospital.
离开武汉前，蔡辉总结说：不论什么情况下都不能违背感控原则，这个底线丝毫不能含糊，不能把医疗队暴露在风险中文|《财经》记者 信娜编辑|王小武汉市中心医院再次失去了一名医护人员。
Before leaving Wuhan, Cai Hui concluded, "Under no circumstances should the principle of sensibility be violated, nor should the bottom line be so vague as to expose the medical team to risks.
2020年3月20日上午，因感染新冠肺炎，武汉市中心医院伦理委员会成员刘励离世。
On the morning of March 20, 2020, Liu Lai, a member of the ethics committee of Wuhan Central Hospital, died of pneumonia.
一位武汉市中心医院医务人员向《财经》记者证实了这个消息。
A medical worker at Wuhan Central Hospital confirmed the news to Caijing.
至此，在此次新冠肺炎疫情中，武汉市中心医院已痛失五位员工。
So far, in this new crown pneumonia epidemic, Wuhan city central hospital has lost five staff members.
此前，眼科医生李文亮、甲状腺乳腺外科主任江学庆、眼科副主任梅仲明和眼科副主任医师朱和平，因感染病毒离世。
Earlier, ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, director of thyroid breast surgery Jiang Xueqing, deputy ophthalmology director Mei Zhongming and deputy chief ophthalmologist Zhu Ping died of the virus.
武汉市中心医院一位管理人员告诉《财经》记者，疫情初期医院感染率高，是无法回避的问题，我们需要认真反思。
A manager of Wuhan Central Hospital told Caijing that the high rate of hospital infection in the early stage of the epidemic is an unavoidable problem, and we need to seriously reflect.
3月20日，首批支援武汉市中心医院的甘肃医疗队，离开了坚守了53个日夜的武汉市中心医院后湖院区，返回位于武汉江岸区的驻地，该院区的少量病人，交由该院医护人员接手治疗。
On March 20, the first medical team from Gansu Province, which supports Wuhan Central Hospital, left the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital, which held the 53-day and night-time hospital, and returned to its station in the Jiangan district of Wuhan, where a small number of patients were handed over to the hospital's medical staff for treatment.
截至3月19日，武汉连续2天新增确诊和新增疑似人员为零，疫情已得到有效控制。
As of March 19, Wuhan two consecutive days of new diagnosis and suspected personnel are zero, the epidemic has been effectively controlled.
自3月17日起，3600多名援鄂医务人员将分批陆续撤离武汉。
Since March 17, more than 3,600 medical personnel will be evacuated from Wuhan in batches.
甘肃医疗队计划于3月21日离开武汉，返回甘肃。
The Gansu medical team is scheduled to leave Wuhan on March 21 and return to Gansu Province.
这一刻，医疗队队长蔡辉终于能松一口气。
At this moment, medical team captain Cai Hui can finally relax.
来汉之前，他们已经从新闻里或多或少了解到即将支援的武汉市中心医院：医护人员感染严重以及李文亮医生。
Before the Han Dynasty, they had learned more or less from the news about the upcoming support of Wuhan Central Hospital: serious infection among medical staff and Dr. Lee Wenliang.
对蔡辉而言，自1月28日到达武汉的那一刻，有一块大石头便压在他心头：如何保证参与支援的医护人员零感染。
For Cai, from the moment he arrived in Wuhan on January 28, a large stone fell on his mind: how to ensure zero infection for the health care workers involved.
武汉东湖樱园真是樱花盛开，成片早樱连成浅粉色的烟海。
Wuhan Donghu cherry orchard is really cherry blossoms, into early Sakura into a pale pink sea of smoke.
近几日，樱园特别对支援湖北的医护人员免费开放。
In recent days, Sakura has opened up free of charge to medical staff supporting Hubei province.
出于安全起见，甘肃支援队并未前往赏樱，慎终如始，蔡辉称，“留一点美好，留一点想念”。
To be on the safe side, the Gansu Support Team did not go to Sakura. "Leave a little bit of beauty behind," Cai said.
截止目前，从全国各地而来的3600多名援鄂医务人员新冠病毒零感染，即便身在医护人员一度感染最严重的武汉市中心医院，甘肃医疗队也全身而退。
So far, more than 3,600 medical professionals from all over the country have been infected with the new crown virus, and the Gansu medical team has retreated, even though medical workers were once infected at Wuhan Central Hospital, the city's worst hospital.
3月20日，蔡辉接受了《财经》记者专访，详谈他带领137名甘肃支援医护队员在武汉奋战的日子，如何尽最大努力做到了支援队员零感染。
In an interview with Caijing News on March 20, Cai explained how he had done his best to support his 137 Gansu support medical team members fighting in Wuhan.
最大压力是保证“医护人员零感染”《财经》：到达武汉之前，你对武汉的疫情有哪些了解，最担心的是什么？蔡辉：说实话，从来到这开始，就一直有两个压力，一个是开展医疗工作，另一个是压力是医护人员零感染。
What do you know about the epidemic in Wuhan before you arrive in Wuhan? Cai Hui: To tell you the truth, from the beginning, there have been two pressures, one is to carry out medical work, the other is that the pressure is zero for medical staff.
刚开始，压力对我来说很大。
At first, stress was a big deal to me.
对环境、病毒浓度没有心里没有底，对我的队员也不熟悉。
I don't know the environment, virus concentration, nor do I know my players.
很多年轻人没有经历过，也没穿过防护服。
Many young people did not experience it and did not wear protective clothing.
通过视频练习的再熟练，还是跟实战不一样，而且也不知道是什么样的工作强度。
Through the video practice again skilled, is not the same as the actual war, and do not know what is the intensity of the work.
我很担心，念叨最多的就是，老同志要把年轻同志多带带。
I am very worried, read the most is that the old comrade to take more young gay belt.
这些娃们，要保护好。
Take care of yourself, girls.
《财经》：你们来武汉后看到的情况，和想象的一样吗？蔡辉：我们1月28日乘飞机，下午一点多到武汉。
Caijing: Did you see the same thing after you came to Wuhan? Cai Hui: We flew on January 28th and arrived in Wuhan at one o'clock in the afternoon.
之前也做了很多准备工作，通过新闻，以及朋友、同学了解武汉的情况。
Before doing a lot of preparatory work, through the news, as well as friends, students learned about Wuhan.
但跟实际看的还是两回事。
But it's not the same as it really is.
飞机一落地，整个机场空荡荡的，只有我们一个队。
As soon as the plane landed, the whole airport was empty except for us.
那个感觉没有兴奋，是一种肃然。
That feeling is not excited, is a kind of awe.
你说沉重不至于，但是空气有点凝重，是真的。
You say heaviness is not enough, but the air is a little heavy. It's true.
最年轻的队员才22岁。
The youngest player is only 22 years old.
队员们或多或少，都会有点紧张。
The team, more or less, is a little nervous.
一路坐车从机场到驻地，大家很少说话，更多是惊讶。
All the way from the airport to the station, people speak very little, more surprised.
你可能没法想象出，在一个大都市里，是没有车的，所有的门窗都是关着的。
You can't imagine that in a big city, there are no cars, all the doors and windows are closed.
这感觉，这辈子都忘不了，就像是战士到了战场。
This feeling, this life will not forget, like soldiers to the battlefield.
一下飞机后，这种感觉很真切，透到骨子里。
When I got off the plane, the feeling was real and deep inside.
《财经》：当时是否已经听说武汉市中心医院医护人员感染比较严重？蔡辉：刚到武汉的时候，市中心医院作为定点医院不久。
Caijing: Did you hear at that time that the hospital staff of Wuhan Central Hospital were seriously infectedCai Hui: When I first arrived in Wuhan, the central hospital was a designated hospital for some time.
我们听说，在这之前，有很多同事倒下了，很多医护人员感染。
We heard that before that, a lot of colleagues had fallen down and a lot of health care workers had been infected.
我们说倒下是说 “中枪”了，不过那时还没有人牺牲。
We said "shot" when we said we were down, but no one died yet.
身边的同事一个接一个感染，医护人员的压力是很大的。
Around the colleagues one infection after another, the pressure on medical staff is very high.
一个是面临接诊的压力，需要接诊很多病人。
One is the stress of receiving care, which requires many consultations.
第二个就是，子弹也好，士兵也好，很少。
The second was that bullets or soldiers were few.
队友倒下时，对其他人的冲击力是很大的。
When a teammate falls, the impact on others can be significant.
我记得很清楚，有一次我问，“今天怎么没见杨院长”。
I remember quite clearly, once I asked, "Why didn't I see Dean Yang today?"
前面领路的护士很不高兴，回头说，我们杨院长病倒了，隔离了。
The nurse leading the way was very unhappy and turned around and said that we Dean Yang was ill and isolated.
我懵了，觉得自己的语气可能伤害到她的感情。
I felt stunned, feeling that her tone might hurt her feelings.
我们是一种很轻松的状态，并不知道他们经历了什么。
We're in a relaxed state and don't know what they're going through.
我到现在都记得这件事，走在路上，我再和这位护士说话，她不理我了。
I still remember it, walking along the way, I talked to the nurse again, she ignored me.
从这一点上，能感觉到他们的情感。
From this point of view, can feel their feelings.
《财经》：你第一次去武汉市中心医院后湖院区，当时情况如何？蔡辉：1月28日下午三点多到驻地，行李是五点多到的。
Caijing: How was your first visit to the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital? Cai Hui: We arrived there at 3: 00 pm on January 28th.
行李刚到，来不及处理，我和队里其他负责人就去了武汉中心医院后湖院区，得看看以后要面对的战场是什么样的。
Luggage just arrived, too late to deal with, I and the other team in charge of the central hospital in Wuhan Houhu District, to see what the future of the battlefield is.
我去看了临时隔的休息区。
I went to see the temporary rest area.
每个人都很繁忙，有事情完全不知道找谁，也不知道去哪个房间，也不知道物资放在哪里。
Everyone is very busy, there are things do not know who to look for, do not know which room to go to, and do not know where the goods are.
就是到战场的感觉，援兵来了，前线不知道你是怎么回事。
It's the feeling of going to the battlefield. The reinforcements are coming. The front doesn't know what you're doing.
医院医务部的负责人在现场，可还没有接到指挥部的正式通知。
The head of the hospital's medical department was on the scene, but had not been officially notified by the command.
他们也不知道怎么安排病区。
They don't know how to arrange the area.
但是我们得马上做这个事情。
But we have to do this right away.
当天晚上大概5点多，我和杨名院长（武汉市中心医院副院长）简单谈话确定几件事：一是要先培训，关于诊疗和防护，我们本身也需要实战培训。
At about 5: 00 that evening, Dean Yang and I (Vice-Dean of Wuhan Central Hospital) briefly talked about a few things: First, we need training first, and we ourselves need hands-on training on diagnosis and treatment and protection.
第二是，商量如何合作。
The second is to discuss how to cooperate.
如果中心医院没有太多人力来配合我们，就把一个整的病区交给我们，让我们来管。
If the central hospital doesn't have enough manpower to work with us, we can hand over an entire area to us and let us take care of it.
这样我们初步把合作方式确定下来。
In this way, we will finalize the mode of cooperation initially.
什么情况下都不能违背感染防控标准《财经》：支援队哪天开始接手工作，当时武汉市中心医院院内感染防控改造情况如何？蔡辉：1月29日，也就是到达武汉第二天开始培训，下午4点半，培训刚结束，就接到医院的电话，希望当天晚上能接管病区，因为病人比较多。
Under no circumstances should we deviate from the infection control standard Caijing: When did the support team begin to take over the infection prevention and control in Wuhan Central Hospital? Cai Fai: January 29, the day after arrival in Wuhan began training, 4: 30 pm, just after the training, I received a call from the hospital hoping to take over the area that night because of the large number of patients.
这完全超出我的想象，刚刚结束完国家的培训，我们自己还要进行培训，甚至还没时间认识彼此。
It's completely beyond my wildest imagination. We've just finished our national training, we have to train ourselves, and we don't even have time to know each other.
挂了电话，我们紧急开会。
Hang up. We have an emergency meeting.
培训的时候，大家还没有那么紧绷，结果马上就要去病房，突然变得凝重。
The training time, everyone is not so tight, the result is about to go to the ward, suddenly become heavy.
1月29号晚上6点半到7点，我们一起去中心医院。
January 29th, 6: 30pm to 7: 00pm, we went to the central hospital together.
当晚，接手了一个病区。
That night, I took over a sick area.
当时医院正在改造，也是边摸索边改造。
At that time the hospital was being reconstructed, and was groping along the way.
说实话，我们都是综合医院，没有很好的感染防控经验。
To tell the truth, we are all general hospitals, there is no good infection prevention and control experience.
医疗机构的大楼，不是按照传染病医院设计的。
The building of a medical institution is not designed for an infectious disease hospital.
所以改造怎么样才能符合条件，谁都说不上，困难也很多。
So how to adapt to the conditions, no one can say, the difficulties are also many.
今天按这个路径改，有漏洞，这样医生和患者会交叉，第二天就要调整。
Today, following this path, there is a loophole so that doctors and patients will cross over and adjust the next day.
举个例子，最开始三天（1月28号到1月30号）每天进的门都不一样。
The first three days (January 28th to January 30th), for example, are marked by different doors.
第一次是从最侧面门诊的门进去的，第二次换了一个，第三次是从前面的门进去的。
The first entered by the door of the most lateral clinic, the second by the door of the first, and the third by the front.
医院也在不断地改善感控的路径。
Hospitals are also constantly improving their sensory pathways.
说明那时还没有找到一个很好的感控路径，也能看出来是一个很紧急的情况。
The result shows that we haven't found a good sensibility path, and we can see that it is a very urgent situation.
《财经》：你们是在什么情况下又接手了第二个病区？蔡辉：我们用了一周的时间把各项工作和生活理顺了，比如排班，车辆进出，队员生活。
Caijing: Under what circumstances did you take over the second sickCai Hui: It took us a week to straighten out our work and life, such as scheduling, getting in and out of the car, living on the team.
队员也达到一个稳定的状态。
The players have also reached a steady state.
所以，再接第二个病区的时候，我们很有信心。
So when we go to the second area, we're very confident.
2月4号左右，第一个病区慢慢收满了，这时医院提出，能不能再接一个病区。
Around February 4, the first area was slowly full, when the hospital asked if it could take another area.
病区是17个房间，刚开始要求疑似病人单人单间，后来慢慢放开。
The area was 17 rooms, which at first required a single room for the suspect, then slowly let go.
一个病区最多收治42个人，少的时候17个人，每个病区的格局相似。
A maximum of 42 people were treated in one area and 17 in fewer, each with a similar pattern.
2月5号，用了一天时间，就把接管了第二个病区。
On February 5, it took one day to take over the second area.
整个过程很顺利。
The whole process went smoothly.
《财经》：为什么又分出力量去支援武汉协和医院重症病人治疗？蔡辉：2月7日下午4点多，接到电话，当时武汉处在最难的时候，外面重病病人特别多，需要提高治愈率。
"Caijing": Why is another part of the effort to support the treatment of serious patients at Wuhan Concord Hospital? Cai Fai: More than 4: 00 pm on February 7, I got a call from him when Wuhan was in its most difficult time and there were so many seriously ill patients outside.
所以在武汉协和医院西院区定点接诊重症患者，而其他支援队还没到。
So in Wuhan Concord hospital west courtyard area fixed-point receives the serious patient, but other support team has not arrived.
我们需要抽调30名重症医护人员去武汉协和医院。
We need to dispatch 30 intensive care workers to Wuhan Concord Hospital.
这都是我们的精兵强将，10个重症科医生，20个重症科的护士。
These are our best men, 10 intensive care physicians, 20 intensive care nurses.
当天晚上6点钟，临时开会，把医生和护士的意向名单理出来，但还没有决定。
A provisional meeting was held at 6 p.m. to sort out the names of the doctors and nurses, but no decision had been made.
那时，我们刚接了一个病区，才开始平稳。
At that time, we just picked up a sick area, just began to smooth out.
这在分出力量，相当于釜底抽薪。
This is diverting forces and is tantamount to cutting one's bridges.
我记得送队员去协和西院的时候是，正月十五。
I remember sending the team to Concorde West Court on the fifteenth day of the first month.
吃汤圆的时候，这边一波人吃汤圆，那边一拨人要离开。
When eating soup Yuan, a wave of people here eat dumplings, there is a group of people to leave.
汤圆是分开吃的。
Tangyuan is eaten separately.
我们录下一段现场视频。
We taped a live video.
整个视频都是静悄悄的，107名队员送30名队员去另一个战场，去前线的更前线。
The whole video was quiet, with 107 players sending 30 players to another front line.
因为治疗重症患者感染的风险更高，涉及插管，工作强度也更大。
Because the treatment of severe cases of infection risk is higher, involving intubation, the intensity of the work is greater.
《财经》：有的医疗支援队到达武汉后会先停下来两天，制定院感标准，再开始工作，你们当时紧急上岗，对院内感控方面最担心的是什么？蔡辉：在我们大部队来武汉中心医院之前，也就是大年三十，一名队员先跟随国家感染组到武汉。
Some medical support teams will stop for two days upon their arrival in Wuhan, work out the standards of hospital feeling, and then start work.What was the most worrying aspect about the hospital sensibility of the hospital? Cai Hui: Before the arrival of our big troops in Wuhan Central Hospital, one of the team members followed the National Infection Team to Wuhan.
他已经提前和院方沟通和梳理了院内感染的防控措施和管理。
He has communicated with the hospital ahead of time and combed the hospital infection control measures and management.
我们来之前，已经梳理得差不多了，可能有一些小的细节流程还需要完善。
Before we came, it was almost done, and there might be some minor details that needed to be worked out.
不论是治疗还是院感，我们和中心医院一直都有沟通。
We are in constant communication with the Central Hospital, both for treatment and hospital care.
当时大家都很难，一些没有办法完成的事情，我们也没有硬提，比如楼道改进的问题，是做不到的。
It was very difficult for us to do something that we couldn't do, and we didn't try to do it. For example, we couldn't improve the corridor.
要有完全独立的通道，门不符合推拉，要换成感应的。
To have a fully independent channel, the door does not conform to push and pull, must be replaced by induction.
硬件的条件如果达不到，提出来是没有用的。
It's no use putting forward hardware if you can't meet it.
只能是在现有条件下完善它，比如，隔离区和半隔离区之间，如何摆放座椅、物品等。
It can only be perfected under existing conditions, such as the area of separation and semi-isolation, how to place seats, objects, etc.
进出这个区域的人员也需要分批进入，避免病毒浓度过高。
People entering and leaving the area also need to be moved in batches to avoid high virus concentrations.
休息区管理上，需要避免交叉感染，这方面，我们会明确提出要求。
Lounge area management, the need to avoid cross-infection, we will clearly define the requirements.
因为我们不知道当时中心医院医护人员什么情况，哪个人是否已经感染。
Because we don't know what happened to the staff at the central hospital and who was infected.
所以要求队员休息区有单独通道，和中心医院的医护人员之间，尽量不要交叉。
Therefore, members of the rest areas are required to have separate access, and the central hospital between the medical staff, try not to cross.
靠什么撑过在武汉的这些日子《财经》：当时防护物资是否够用，有医务人员说物资最紧缺的时候，甚至要用雨衣、塑料袋，支援队有没有遭遇同样困境？蔡辉：刚到那天晚上（1月28日），我们在会议室召开第一次工作会议，分了组，安排第二天的工作，比如培训和清点物资。
2007-9-24 16: 19 What sustains us in Wuhan These days Caijing: Were there enough protective materials, even raincoats and plastic bags when medical staff said the supplies were in dire straits? Cai Fai: We just arrived that evening (January 28), we held our first working meeting in the conference room, divided into groups and arranged for the next day's work, such as training and inventory.
随队带的物资也不少，但如果放开用的话，撑不了一周。
The team also took a lot of supplies, but if let go of use, will not last a week.
所以刚到武汉，我们就清点物资。
So as soon as we arrived in Wuhan, we counted the materials.
因为不知道战线会拉多久，也不知道物资配给是什么情况，就得算着过日子。
It was a matter of living, not knowing how long the battle lines would run or what the ration would be like.
刚开始用创可贴贴破损的防护服，把塑料袋套在脚上，这些都遇到过。
You've just encountered plastic bags on your feet with a bandaged protective clothing.
塑料袋主要是套在脚上，是符合防控标准的。
Plastic bags are mainly placed on the feet, is in line with the standards of prevention and control.
我们所有的行为都是符合防控标准的，只不过防护物资有优质与劣质的区别，类似面料好坏的问题。
All our activities are in line with control standards, except that the quality of the protective material and poor quality, similar to the fabric problem.
无论什么情况下都不能违背感控原则，要按照感控标准来做，这个底线是毫不含糊的，不能把队员暴露在风险中。
Under no circumstances should we disobey the principle of sensibility and do it according to the standards of sensibility. The bottom line is unambiguous.
《财经》：其实，医护人员在极度劳累，身体透支的情况下，更容易感染，怎么解决这个问题？蔡辉：中间我们还抽调了30名重症医护人员支援武汉协和医院西院，留在中心医院的医生由一天4班变成一天3班，护士倒班也更勤，平均1.5天到2天就要上一个班。
How to solve the problem? Cai Fai: In the middle, we deployed 30 intensive care staff to support the Western Hospital of Wuhan Concord Hospital. The number of doctors who stayed in the Central Hospital changed from four to three shifts a day, and nurses worked more frequently, averaging 1.5 to 2 days.
到第三、四周的时候，大家明显处于疲劳状态。
By the third or fourth week, everyone was visibly tired.
7名护士发生不同症状的晕倒，还出现职业暴露的，比如针把手指扎了，也有胃疼的，各种状况太多了。
Seven nurses fainted with different symptoms, and there were also occupational exposures, such as pricking of the fingers with needles and stomach pains, too many conditions.
那时真的到了濒临崩溃的时候，弦不能松，得一直挺着，不能撤退。
It was a time of near-collapse, when the strings could not be loosened, had to stay upright and could not be withdrawn.
大家都到了身体的极限，感染的风险很大。
Everyone has reached the limit of their bodies, and the risk of infection is high.
这时国家刚好出了一个方案，让医护人员调休。
The country had just come up with a plan to have health-care workers take time off.
海南省派了30个医务人员，想加入帮我们换班。
Hainan sent 30 medical personnel to join us in the shift.
我们的情况很特殊，一个支援队分在两个地方。
We're in a special situation. We have a support team in two places.
后来协调下，请海南支援队的医护人员把我们在协和医院的队员换回来。
Later, under coordination, Hainan support team of medical personnel to replace our members in the Concorde Hospital.
我们也向中心医院申请，将接手的两个病区压缩成一个，统一排班，这样一个医务人员工作一天，能休息两、三天，边工作边调休，才缓解了体力，而且队员一旦出现身体不适，就马上做检查。
We also applied to the Central Hospital to compress the two wards into a single, unified shift so that a medical worker can rest for two or three days a day while on the job, relieving them of physical strain and providing immediate check-ups in the event of illness.
《财经》：这个过程应当并不容易。
Caijing: This process should not be easy.
蔡辉：我们常常说，我们不容易，武汉的医务人员更不容易。
Cai Hui: We often say that we are not easy, Wuhan medical staff is not easy.
我们才“打”几天，他们都多少天了。
We've only been fighting for days. They've been fighting for days.
支援武汉中心医院，快到一个月的时候，2月22日，中心医院写了一封感谢信。
Support Wuhan Central Hospital, nearly a month, February 22, the central hospital wrote a thank-you letter.
里面有三个关键点，最早到达，最快速度投入战斗，始终坚守。
There are three key points, the earliest arrival, the fastest speed into the battle, always adhere to.
看到这个，我们很感动。
We were moved to see this.
把感谢信发到群里，大家都很欣慰。
We were glad to send the thank-you note to the group.
《财经》：现在你们实现了最初的支援目标，支援队全体医护人员也做到了零感染，你觉得这中间最重要的是什么？蔡辉：平稳度过接手病区后的第一晚，对我们来说太重要了。
"Caijing": Now that you have achieved your initial support target and the support team has achieved zero infection, what do you think is the most important thing? Cai Fai: It is too important for us to get through the first night after taking over the sick area.
1月29日，中心医院本来准备让我们一下子接两个病区，根据现实情况，当天接了一个病区。
On 29 January, the Central Hospital was about to allow us to connect two sick areas at once and, depending on the reality, took over a sick area that day.
进入病区先熟悉情况，捋顺以后，再收病人。
First into the disease area familiar with the situation, after smoothing, then accept patients.
同时，请医院派了一个医生和护士，因为很多东西不了解。
At the same time, please send a doctor and nurse to the hospital, because many things do not know.
先把这一夜守下来。
Hold the night down first.
当天只收了5个病人，不敢放开。
Only five patients were admitted that day, afraid to let go.
但是那一晚，很重要。
But that night, it was important.
一方面，万事开头难；另一方面，也了解实战到底是什么样的，给后面的医护人员传授经验，大家就不会那么紧张。
On the one hand, everything is difficult; on the other hand, to understand what the actual fighting is like, to impart experience to the medical staff behind, people will not be so nervous.
这一晚，我们制定了防止感染的规则。
This evening, we laid down rules to prevent infection.
路径怎么走，从哪里进哪里出，在哪里休息等，还规定要两两进入病区，忘了什么彼此互相提个醒，因为大家会慌的。
There are rules about where to go, where to go, where to go, and where to rest. There are also rules about going to the sick area and forgetting what to tell each other, because people will panic.
穿衣服慢一点，脱衣服更慢一点，不要急。
Slow down, take off your clothes a little slower, don't hurry.
我们说保护队员零感染，靠什么？我觉得要靠管理的细节。
What do we say to protect the team from zero infection? I think it depends on the details of management.
你能往前冲，关键是落实细节。
You can go forward, the key is to implement the details.
队员恐慌，怎么减少恐慌，除了生活保证和心理咨询，最重要的，就是把工作做细。
Team members panic, how to reduce panic, in addition to life support and psychological counseling, the most important thing is to do detailed work.
《财经》：作为亲历者，你怎么看这次疫情？蔡辉：疫情是残酷的，这种残酷，你可能仅看病，看CT片，看不出来。
Caijing: As a witness, what do you think of this epidemic? Cai Hui: The epidemic is cruel, this cruelty, you may only see the doctor, see the CT, can not see.
但是从医护人员，从患者的遭遇中，能感受到。
But from the medical personnel, from the patient's experience, can feel.
病区第一位死亡的病人，我印象很深，是一位86岁的老人。
The first patient to die in the area, I was impressed. He was an 86-year-old man.
那晚的情况是，急救车一车一车把病人拉过来，一车20多个病人。
What happened that night was that ambulances were hauling patients by truck, a load of more than 20 patients.
当时医院只开放几个病区收治病人，每个病区只能住七八个病人，病人得一个一个先排着，再领到病床上。
At the time, the hospital was open to patients in only a few areas, with only seven or eight patients in each ward.
还没等到领去病床，这位老人就在急救车上去世了，就是这么快。
Before he could get to the hospital bed, the old man died in the ambulance, just so fast.
不知道病史是什么，也不知道是什么情况。
I don't know what the medical history is, and I don't know what it is.
现实是这样的，很残酷。
The reality is this. It's cruel.
《财经》：期间，最触动你的人或者事是什么？蔡辉：2月13号，病区床位很满，有一位68岁的老太太，住不进来。
Caijing: What is the person or thing that touches you most in the meantime? Cai Hui: On February 13, the bed in the sick area is full and a 68-year-old woman can't come in.
她有很多基础疾病，我们很担心她的病情。
She has a lot of basic ailments, and we're worried about her condition.
老太太还不知道，她的老伴已经去世了。
The old lady did not know that her old wife had passed away.
她儿子和我们说，他爸爸在另外一家医院去世了，他不能再接受妈妈也去世。
Her son told us that his father had died in another hospital and that he could no longer accept his mother's death.
我们决定加个病床，等了半天，老太太没来，于是联系她的儿子，对方说，对不起，实在对不起，我现在在等殡仪馆的车先把我父亲拉走，我才能送母亲来医院。
We decided to add a bed, waiting for a long time, the old lady did not come to contact her son, the other side said, sorry, I am sorry, I am waiting for the undertaker's car to pull my father away before I can send my mother to the hospital.
这句话，让我触动很深。
This sentence, let me deeply touched.
好在，老人的治疗效果很好。
Fortunately, the treatment of the elderly is very effective.
2月13号住院，16号病情好转，22号病情就稳定了。
Feb. 13 hospitalized, 16 improved, 22 stabilized.
后来核酸转阴可以出院了，我们去送她，老太太很开朗。
Later nucleic acid overcast can be discharged from hospital, we go to send her, the old lady is very cheerful.
她说，等好了，请你们吃饭。
And she said, Wait, and dine with you.
那时，她还是不知道老伴已经去世了。
At that time, she still did not know that his wife had died.
送完她上车，我们这些大老爷们眼睛都湿了。
After she got on the bus, we guys were all wet.
通过她能看到这个城市的创伤，很触动。
She was able to see the trauma of the city and was very touched.
【版权声明】本作品著作权归《财经》独家所有，授权深圳市腾讯计算机系统有限公司独家享有信息网络传播权，任何第三方未经授权，不得转载。
Copyright Declaration The copyright of this work belongs exclusively to Caijing, and authorizes Shenzhen Tencent Computer System Co. Ltd. to enjoy exclusive rights of information network transmission.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
对话首批支援武汉中心医院医疗队队长：我们如何做到医护零感染。
Dialogue One Support Wuhan Central Hospital Medical Team Leader: How can we do zero infection?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "对话首批支援武汉中心医院医疗队队长：我们如何做到医护零感染";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; # 8943; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;;
var msg_desc = "从1月28日到3月20日，蔡辉带领甘肃医疗队137人在武汉市中心医院完成了防疫救治援助工作。
var msg _ desc = & quot; from January 28 to 20, Cai Hui led 137 members of Gansu medical team to complete epidemic prevention assistance at Wuhan Central Hospital.
离开武汉前，蔡辉总结说：不论什么情况下都不能违背感控原则，这个底线丝毫不能含糊，不能把医疗队暴露在风险中";。
Before leaving Wuhan, Cai Hui concluded that: no matter what the circumstances, you must not violate the principle of sensibility.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
