华南海鲜市场的动物去哪了？。
Where are the animals at the South China Seafood Market?
童兰。
Pamela.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
28.01.2020本文字数：2678，阅读时长大约4分钟导读：随着新型冠状病毒的溯源工作的开展，华南海鲜市场几乎被锁定为疫情的源头，尽管该市场关闭前所销售的野生动物目前的去向我们不得而知，武汉官方也未做任何披露。
The South China seafood market is almost locked as the source of the outbreak with the development of traceability to the new coronavirus, although the whereabouts of the wildlife sold before the market closed are unknown and Wuhan authorities have not made any disclosures.
作者 | 第一财经童兰随着新型冠状病毒的溯源工作的开展，华南海鲜市场几乎被锁定为疫情的源头，尽管该市场关闭前所销售的野生动物目前的去向我们不得而知，武汉官方也未做任何披露。
With the development of the new coronavirus traceability, the South China seafood market has almost been targeted as the source of the outbreak, although the whereabouts of wildlife sold before the market's closure are unknown, and Wuhan authorities have not disclosed any information.
中国疾控中心病毒病所日前披露，该所在新型冠状病毒溯源研究中取得阶段性进展，首次从武汉华南海鲜市场的585份环境样本中，检测到33份样品含有新型冠状病毒2019-nCoV核酸，并成功在阳性环境标本中分离病毒。
The China CDC Virus Disease Institute (CDC) recently disclosed that it had made some progress in the investigation of the new coronavirus traceability. For the first time, 33 samples of 585 environmental samples from the south China seafood market in Wuhan were detected to contain the new coronavirus 2019-nCoV nucleic acid and successfully isolated the virus in positive environmental samples.
禁止野生动物交易只是暂时措施新型冠状病毒疫情在武汉早期确诊的病例，与武汉华南海鲜市场关系很密切。
The ban on wildlife trade is only a temporary measure of the new coronavirus epidemic in Wuhan early confirmed cases, and Wuhan South China seafood market is very close.
追溯病毒来源、控制源头、阐明病毒中间宿主，是控制该病毒持续从动物传染到人的关键环节。
Tracing the source of the virus, controlling its source and elucidating its intermediate host is the key to controlling its continuous transmission from animal to human.
中国疾病预防控制中心主任高福院士1月22日就曾表示：“该病毒可能来自于海鲜市场上的野生动物，尽管确切来源尚未确定。
"The virus may have come from wild animals in seafood markets, although the exact source has not been determined," Gao Fuk, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said on Tuesday.
”在中国，多种野生动物是禁止贩运的，或者要求有特殊许可，但如果对某些物种进行商业化养殖，则会放宽对该物种的相关法规限制。
In China, many kinds of wildlife are banned from being trafficked or require special permits, but restrictions on the species can be relaxed if they are commercially farmed.
疫情爆发后民间呼吁禁止野生动物猎杀和捕食的声音不断。
Folk calls for a ban on hunting and hunting by wild animals continued after the outbreak.
但直到1月26日，三部委才联合发文，市场监管总局、农业农村部、国家林草局决定，为严防新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，阻断可能的传染源和传播途径，自公告发布之日起至全国疫情解除期间，禁止野生动物交易活动。
However, it was only on January 26 that the three ministries sent a joint communication. The General Administration of Market Supervision, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs and the State Forestry and Forestry Administration decided to ban wildlife trading activities from the date of promulgation of the notice until the end of the epidemic nationwide in order to strictly prevent the outbreak of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia.
这份禁止野生动物交易的活动获得了国际野生生物保护协会（WSC）的欢迎。
The game, which banned wildlife trading, was welcomed by the International Wildlife Conservation Association (WSC).
该组织发布声明称：“中国禁止野生动物在市场、餐馆和电商渠道的销售举措应该是永久性的。
"China's ban on the sale of wildlife in markets, restaurants and electrical outlets should be permanent," it said in a statement.
”但该组织同时表示，从声明的内容来看，禁止野生动物的举措只是暂时的。
But the group also said the ban on wildlife was "temporary" in the light of the statement.
尽管如此，WSC健康计划执行主任克里斯蒂安 · 沃尔泽(Christian Walzer)告诉第一财经记者：“我们对中国政府走出重要的关键一步表示欢迎。
Nonetheless, Christian Walzer, WSC's executive director of health programs, told First Financial: "We welcome the fact that the Chinese government has taken an important and crucial step."
”WSC还呼吁全球都永久取缔野生动物交易。
The WSC also called for a permanent global ban on wildlife trade.
沃尔泽告诉第一财经记者，在全球的新发传染病中，有70％来自于野生生物。
Volzer told leading financial reporters that wildlife accounts for 70 percent of all new infections worldwide.
那么长期与动物宿主和平共处的病毒为什么会突然向新的宿主人类发出进攻？尽管科学家还无法解释这个问题，但有观点认为，这些活体动物交易市场会促使病毒在不同物种当中来回传播，并在传播过程中发生变异，而这个过程中，病毒可能会感染人类。
Why then does a virus that has long coexisted peacefully with an animal host suddenly attack a new host? Although scientists have yet to explain the problem, it is believed that these live animal markets can cause viruses to spread from species to species and mutate in the process, in which the virus can infect humans.
沃尔泽对第一财经记者表示：“野生动物市场等栖息地为病毒从野生生物宿主向外传播病原体提供了独特的机会。
"Habitats such as wildlife markets provide a unique opportunity for the virus to spread pathogens from wildlife hosts," Walzer told First Financial.
”他还强调，不仅要投入资源来发现新病毒，更要确定传染病的溢出，扩增和传播的流行病学驱动因素。
He also stressed the importance of investing resources not only to discover new viruses, but also to identify the epidemiological drivers of the spread, spread and spread of infectious diseases.
为此，沃尔泽对第一财经记者表示，建议从三个途径应对这一全球性的复杂问题。
To this end, Walzer told the first financial reporter, proposed three ways to deal with this complex global problem.
他说道：“首先需要彻底关闭活体动物交易市场；其次是加强打击力度，永久禁止野生动物的交易，包括跨境交易；改变野生动物消费的习惯，尤其是在城市消费野味的习惯。
"First, there is a need to shut down the live animal trade completely; secondly, to strengthen the fight to permanently ban wildlife trade, including across borders; and to change wildlife consumption habits, especially in cities," he said.
”目前人们认为蝙蝠是SARS冠状病毒的自然宿主，而在中国野生动物市场的果子狸中也发现了SARS冠状病毒，许多科学家认为，蝙蝠病毒是先感染了果子狸之类的动物，然后再感染上食用了这种动物的人类。
Bats are now believed to be the natural hosts of the SARS coronavirus, and the SARS coronavirus has been found in beavers on the Chinese wildlife market, where many scientists believe the virus infected animals such as beavers before infecting humans who eat them.
SARS爆发后，中国严厉打击了果子狸和其他一些物种的消费市场。
After the SARS outbreak, China cracked down on the consumer market for civet beavers and other species.
但这种交易事实上仍在存在，比如在华南海鲜市场。
But the deal still exists in fact, for example in the South China seafood market.
据历史资料，令人吃惊的是，2003年5月SARS疫情刚刚宣告结束，同年8月，国家林业局就立刻确定果子狸为首批可进行商业养殖的野生动物，是合法的野味，同期养殖合法化的还有另外53种野生动物。
According to historical data, just after the SARS outbreak ended in May 2003, the State Forestry Administration (SFA) immediately identified civet beavers as the first commercially viable wild animals, legitimate game, and another 53 species of wild animals legalized during the same period.
冠状病毒多次成功跨物种传播位于田纳西州的范德比尔特大学医学院研究冠状病毒的传染病专家Mark Denison博士表示：“冠状病毒已经多次展现出跨物种的探测，成功地从动物宿主转移到人类。
Dr. Mark Denison, an infectious disease specialist who studies coronavirus at Vanderbilt University School of Medicine in Tennessee, said: "The coronavirus has demonstrated cross-species detection many times and has successfully moved from animal hosts to humans.
”他认为，病毒需要发生多个变异后适应新环境，还必须获得入侵人类细胞的能力，并且躲避人类的免疫系统，在人体内复制，传播给他人。
He believes the virus needs to mutate to adapt to new environments and must acquire the ability to invade human cells and evade the human immune system, replicating it in the body and spreading it to others.
“虽然这种转移可以简单地用‘跳跃’来形容，但是这个过程非常复杂，就好像是要跨过1000个高栏的跨栏。
"While this shift can be described as a simple 'jump', the process is complex, as if you were about to leap over 1,000 hurdles.
”Denison博士表示。
"said Dr. Denison.
不过他对疫情的爆发并不意外，“这只是时间的问题。
But he was not surprised by the outbreak. "It's just a matter of time.
”到目前为止，中国官方发布过两次关于《中国食用野生动物状况的调查报告》。
So far, Chinese authorities have published two reports on the state of China's wild animals.
最近一次报告发布是在2013年，这份由中国野生动物保护协会和美国野生救援协会共同发布的《全国食用野生动物状况及公众对野生动物消费态度的调查报告》显示，尽管公众食用野生动物的比例较过去大幅减少，人工养殖的野生动物也已成为食用野生动物的主要来源，但经营利用的野生动物种类却在增加，某些地区，尤其是中国南方，野生动物消费依然热度不减。
The most recent report, released in 2013, showed that despite a sharp decline in the proportion of wild animals eaten by the public and the emergence of wild animals as a major source of wildlife for consumption, wildlife consumption in some areas, especially in southern China, has continued unabated.
当时的报告显示，每年10月至次年的１月是食用野生动物的主要季节，在北京、上海、广州等16个城市收到的2.4万份有效公众调查问卷显示，尽管有超过90％的受访者认为滥食野生动物是一种违法或不值得提倡的消费行为，但是仍有接近30%的受访者称过去一年食用过野生动物。
More than 90 percent of those surveyed in 16 cities, including Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, said they had eaten wild animals in the past year, although more than 90 percent thought it was illegal or undesirable to consume wild animals.
调查还发现，经营利用的野生动物及其制品的副食商场、超市和集贸市场的比例与1999年的第一次相比，分别上升23％和18％，野生动物的种类也从1999年的53种上升到80种。
The survey also found that the proportion of grocery stores, supermarkets and market stalls trading wildlife and their products increased by 23 per cent and 18 per cent, respectively, compared to the first time in 1999, and that the number of wildlife species increased from 53 in 1999 to 80.
受食补思想的影响，食用野生动物在中国有相当长的历史。
Influenced by the idea of tonic foods, eating wild animals has a long history in China.
多数公众还认为食用野生动物可以达到滋补的目的，有些人还把吃野生动物当作身份地位的象征，而这正是引发全国范围内盗猎及走私野生动物现象的根本原因。
The majority of the public also believes that eating wild animals can be a tonic, and some people use eating wild animals as a status symbol, which is the root cause of poaching and wildlife smuggling across the country.
谁在鼓励“野味消费”？沃尔泽对第一财经记者表示：“人类通过食用野生动物以及暴露在销售野生动物的市场中而得病；与此同时野生动物的数量因为被猎杀和贩卖正在急剧减少，而经济和贫困人口并不能从中受益，因为一旦发生疫情后，感染了病毒的动物就会大量被灭杀，比如禽类和猪，这又会反过来哄抬肉类和禽类价格的上涨，令经济承受打击。
"Humans get sick from eating wild animals and being exposed to markets where wildlife is marketed; at the same time wildlife populations are declining dramatically because of hunting and trafficking, while the economy and the poor do not benefit because, once the outbreak occurs, infected animals are decimated, such as birds and pigs, which in turn drives up the price of meat and poultry.
”另一方面，养殖野生动物也成为一些偏远地区脱贫致富的途径，比如竹鼠和獾就在广西、江西等地被大量人工养殖，并且能够通过淘宝等电商渠道销售。
On the other hand, raising wild animals has become a way to get rich from poverty in remote areas, such as bamboo mice and badgers, which are farmed in Guangxi and Jiangxi and sold through electronic channels such as Taobao.
有网友查询相关电商平台显示，这些动物都有明码标价，比如一只獾的价格约为人民币1300元，果子狸的价格约1500元，如果买500只或者以上，每只可以再便宜100元左右。
These animals are priced at about 1,300 yuan for a badger, 1,500 yuan for a beaver and about 100 yuan for each of 500 or more items, according to a netizen who asked about the e-commerce platform.
一些地方官员甚至认为，人工养殖的野生动物并不等同于野生动物，因为它们所携带的细菌和病毒都不同。
Some local officials even argue that farmed wildlife is not the same as wildlife because they carry different bacteria and viruses.
但沃尔泽向第一财经记者解释道：“由于病毒是如何寄居在这些野生物种身上的现在并不清楚，所以我们需要禁止所有的野生动物交易，也包括人工养殖的竹鼠等。
"It's not clear how the virus lives in these wild species, so we need to ban all wildlife trade, including farmed bamboo rats," Walzer told First Financial.
”有相关统计数据显示，2019年江西省养殖的雁鸭类存栏量500万只，竹鼠存栏量50万只，而一直到2015年，诸如竹鼠、蛇类、豪猪等野生动物并没有检疫标准。
Statistics show that wild animals such as bamboo mice, snakes and porcupines do not have quarantine standards until 2015, with 5 million goose and duck stocks and 500,000 bamboo and mouse reserves in Jiangxi Province in 2019.
2019年国家林草局发布的《林草局关于促进林草产业高质量发展的指导意见》中指出：“规范有序发展特种养殖，发挥林区生态环境和物种资源优势，以非重点保护动物为主攻方向，培育一批特种养殖基地和养殖大户，提升繁育能力，扩大种群规模，增加市场供给。
In 2019, the State Forest and Grass Bureau issued its "Guidelines on Promoting Quality Development of Forest and Grass Industry," which states: "Standardizing and orderly development of special farming, giving full play to the ecological environment and the advantages of species resources in forest areas, cultivating a number of special breeding bases and large farmed households, increasing breeding capacity, expanding population size and increasing market supply."
鼓励社会资本参与种源繁育、扩繁和规模化养殖，发展野生动物驯养观赏和皮毛肉蛋药加工。
Social capital is encouraged to participate in breeding, spreading and large-scale farming, wildlife domestication and egg processing.
”业内人士指出，因为鼓励供给端政策的出台，也推动了消费端的需求增加。
Industry sources said demand on the consumer side had also been boosted by the introduction of supply-side policies.
环保人士呼吁改变通过野生动物养殖来获取经济利益的政策。
Environmentalists are calling for a change in the policy of reaping economic benefits from wildlife farming.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
华南海鲜市场的动物去哪了？。
Where are the animals at the South China Seafood Market?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "华南海鲜市场的动物去哪了？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Where did the animals at South China's seafood market?;
var msg_desc = "随着新型冠状病毒的溯源工作的开展，华南海鲜市场几乎被锁定为疫情的源头，尽管该市场关闭前所销售的野生动物目前的去向我们不得而知，武汉官方也未做任何披露。
var msg _ desc = & quot; With the new coronavirus traceable, the South China seafood market is almost certainly the source of the outbreak, although the whereabouts of wildlife sold before the market's closure are unknown, and Wuhan authorities have not disclosed any information.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
