“被消失”的口罩：谁掀翻了边境线上的百万生意。
"Vanished" mask: Who overturned a million businesses on the border?
黎诗韵 陈晶。
Rhyme Lai Chen Jing.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
疫情期间口罩紧缺导致价格飞涨，跨境口罩交易因此异常活跃。
Shortage of face masks during the outbreak caused prices to soar and cross-border trade in masks became brisk.
这是一个关于越南口罩收货人和俄罗斯口罩发货人的故事，他们都在中间的物流环节出现了问题。
This is the story of the consignee of a Vietnamese mask and the consignor of a Russian mask, both of which have problems in the middle logistics chain.
“疫情是人性的一面镜子”，人与人之间最重要的信任感与名誉，被稀释了文| 黎诗韵 陈晶编辑|宋玮距离原定的收货日期已经过去一月有余了，收货人冯婷还未收到物流寄送回国的越南口罩。
"The epidemic is a mirror of human nature" and the most important trust and prestige between people has been diluted. More than a month after the scheduled date of receipt, Mr. Song Wei, the consignee, has not received a Vietnamese mask sent home by logistics.
冯婷是四川自贡市一家民营企业骏宸集团的董事长。
Feng Ting is the chairman of Zigong, a private enterprise in Sichuan.
2020年春节前，她自费45万元通过越南发货商，为自贡市区县政府买了37.5万只越南口罩。
Before the 2020 Spring Festival, she paid 450,000 yuan to buy 375,000 Vietnamese masks for the government of Zigong District via a Vietnamese shipper.
之后，口罩被交给御送物流，后者又把货物承包给了“万和国际海运公司”，后者有两位合伙人李宏、谢光平。
The mask was then handed over to Royal Logistics, which in turn contracted out the goods to Wan Ho International Shipping Lines, which had two partners, Li Hong and Xie Guangping.
这本是一桩善事，但之后冯婷的噩梦却开始了。
This was supposed to be a good thing, but then Feng Ting's nightmare began.
从原定提货的2月3日开始，她被物流方先后三次更改提货时间与位置。
From the original February 3 pick-up, she was logistics three times to change the time and location of pick-up.
负责押送物资的自贡特警们因此开车辗转南宁、佛山、成都十多天，却连“口罩的绳子都没看到”。
The Zigong special police in charge of escorting the goods were therefore driven around Nanning, Foshan, Chengdu for more than 10 days, but even "the rope did not see the mask."
和冯婷类似的受害者还有很多。
There are many victims like Feng Ting.
在一个专门针对“万和国际海运公司”的维权群里，接近80名群成员的口罩都“失踪”了。
In a group dedicated to Wan Ho International Shipping Lines, nearly 80 members of the group have lost their masks.
按照群里的接龙统计，“失踪的口罩”数量已多达1000多箱（2500只/箱），总计超过250万只，价值数百万元。
According to the group's statistics, the number of "missing masks" has reached more than 1,000 cases (2,500 cases), totaling more than 2.5 million, worth millions of yuan.
一些证据表明，这与物流方脱不开干系，人们之间的信任感格外受到考验。
There is some evidence that this is linked to logistics and that trust between people is particularly tested.
物流方称货物还未回国，但特警却在佛山的仓库外发现了冯婷那批货物标识的纸箱。
Logistics side said the goods have not returned to the country, but the special police found Fengting outside the warehouse of Fengting that batch of cartons.
物流方在一份电话录音中对志愿者耀予承认，“我有红头文件，可以自由调配物资。
"I have red files and I am free to deploy my goods," the logistician admitted to volunteers in a recorded phone call.
”他提供不了文件证明，却意味着物流方可能挪用了物资。
He could not provide documentary proof, but that meant that the logistics company might have misappropriated the goods.
黎鸿和他们不同。
Li Hong is different from them.
他是发货商——2月3日来俄罗斯做考察时替国内的朋友代购口罩。
He was the sender - buying masks for his friends at home on a February 3 visit to Russia.
自2月7日起，他先后发过4万只口罩回国，中间半个多月的时间没有物流信息更新，他一度觉得口罩“失踪”了。
Since February 7, he has sent home 40,000 masks, in the middle of more than half a month no logistics update, he once felt that the mask "disappeared."
问题也出在物流身上。
The problem also lies in logistics.
黎鸿表示，他通过伊尔库兹克申通快递点发货时，对方承诺10-15天可以运回国内，目前4万个口罩中，1万余个都被退了回来。
When he delivered the goods through Irkutsk Shentong express delivery point, Li said, the other side promised 10-15 days can be sent back to the country, currently 40,000 of the 40,000 were returned.
黎鸿表示，在他组织的维权群内，出现延迟运达的口罩数量达到约100万个。
Li Hong said the number of delayed arrival of masks in his advocacy group reached about one million.
按口罩价格2.5元，加上运费共3元计算，所涉金额在三百万人民币左右。
Based on the face mask price of 2.5 yuan, plus freight total of 3 yuan, the amount involved is about 3 million yuan.
申通国际网络部负责人王黎明表示，由于俄罗斯从2月初开始就收紧了医疗物资出口，因此不少货物在海关被滞留，目前申通方面能做的就是协助将未寄回国内的口罩退回并退还运费。
Wang Dawn, head of Shentong's international network division, said many goods had been held up at customs because Russia had tightened exports of medical supplies since early February.
《财经》记者了解到，俄罗斯在3月初正式出台了限制医疗物资出口的法案。
The Caijing correspondent understands that Russia formally introduced the bill restricting the export of medical materials in early March.
伊尔库兹克申通快递网点负责人苑红军表示，之前部分小包裹口罩已经运回国内，未到达国内的主要是后期发出的大批量口罩。
The Red Army, the head of the Irkutsk express delivery network, said some of the previously small face masks had been sent back to the country, not the main late issue of large quantities of face masks.
“特殊时期，希望大家都能互相理解。
"In special times, I hope everyone understands each other.
”这些事件的背景是：在疫情紧急的2020年1月底、2月初，中国国内正规口罩告急，且多被政府调配一线。
The incidents took place against the backdrop of an emergency in late January and early February 2020, when China's formal masks were in urgent need and were mostly deployed by the government.
为了获取优质且正规的物资，这些人们不得不把眼光投向海外。
These people have to look overseas in order to get good quality, formal goods.
“时间紧”、“物资稀缺”，人们几乎未加思考地就选择了别人介绍的物流公司，甚至连合同都未正式签订。
"Time is tight" and "materials are scarce," people almost thoughtlessly choose someone else's introduction to the logistics company, even the contract is not signed.
所以，当物流迟迟未能送到，人们的不信任感便斗升。
Therefore, when logistics delays delivery, people's mistrust will rise.
以冯婷当时的口罩采购价0.6元/只计算，按照后来3元/只的市价，物流商不用任何成本，把物资倒手转卖即可赚取百万。
Taking the purchase price of Fung Ting's mask at that time at HK $0.6 / only, the logistics company can make millions by reselling the materials at no cost to the market price of the next $3 / unit.
这是一种合乎情理的猜测。
This is a reasonable guess.
“从没想过物流会出事，生意流程最不起眼的角色，把整条船掀翻了。
"It never occurred to me that something would happen to logistics. The most insignificant part of the business process overturned the whole boat.
”受害者许东对《财经》记者说。
"Xu Dong, the victim, told Caijing.
人们最痛惜的主要不是钱，而是自己花在维权上的时间、精力，以及人与人之间最重要的信任感与名誉，被稀释了。
What people most deplore is not money, but the amount of time and energy they spend defending their rights, and the most important trust and reputation they have in each other, that is diluted.
蒙在鼓里1989年出生的冯婷经营着一家彩灯公司，兼做地产，她说自己“白手起家好难”。
Born in 1989, Feng Ting, who runs a colored-light company and works as a property developer, said she was "very difficult to build from scratch."
但也正是“做生意的敏感”，她在2020年春节前几天看到街上人们开始戴口罩，便意识到口罩物资会缺。
But it is also "the sensitivity of doing business," who, a few days before the 2020 Spring Festival, saw people wearing masks on the streets and realized that supplies would be scarce.
她决定先买一些，之后捐出去。
She decided to buy some first and donate it later.
分两头行动。
Two lines of action.
她先是通过自己的副总找到越南发货商，让对方帮忙订购了口罩，之后又把货交付物流，货预计2月3日到国内。
She first approached the Vietnamese shippers through her deputy chief, asked them to help order the masks, and then delivered the goods to logistics, which were expected to arrive in the country on February 3.
另一头，她把上百家国内口罩厂的联系方式打了个表格，一个个打电话，最终2月2日拿到了工厂交付的二十万只口罩。
At the other end of the spectrum, she used a form to contact hundreds of domestic mask factories and made phone calls, eventually getting 200,000 face masks delivered by the factory on February 2.
在口罩捐赠给政府的仪式上，桌子的一边坐着她一个人，另一边坐了区里的十位领导。
At a ceremony at which the mask was donated to the government, she sat alone on one side of the table and ten leaders on the other side of the district.
为了保险起见，政府派了特警开车护送这批口罩，几乎一拉回来就被分完了。
To be on the safe side, the government sent special police to escort the masks in cars, and they were almost finished when they came back.
冯婷高兴的是，过两天另一批口罩就要到了。
Fung Ting is pleased that two days later another batch of masks will arrive.
货物一开始到达的时间就被推迟了。
The time of arrival of the goods was put off.
直到2月5日，3位司机才轮流开着大巴载着5位特警，从四川自贡开往广西南宁机场。
It was not until 5 February that the three drivers took turns driving a bus carrying five special police officers from Zigong, Sichuan Province, to Nanning Airport in Guangxi.
到了2月7日白天，发货商却通知冯婷说，飞机上有很多人的货，清出来要比较晚，让他们等着。
By the day of February 7, the shipper had informed Feng Ting that there were a lot of people on the plane, to clear out later, let them wait.
到2月8日，对方说虽然清完了，但却发现他们的货还在越南机场，要再等两天装机。
By February 8, the other side said they had finished, but found their cargo was still at the Vietnamese airport, waiting another two days to load the plane.
冯婷想着应该是货物太多，有疏漏也正常。
Feng Ting thought that the goods should be too much, there are omissions normal.
2月11日，对方却说货已经发往佛山了。
Feb. 11, the other side said that the goods have been sent to Foshan.
一车人只好2月12日一早驱车前往佛山。
A load of people had to drive to Foshan early on February 12.
等到13号来到交货地点，发货商却还对他们说，货还没有到。
When the 13th arrived at the place of delivery, the shipper said to them that the goods had not arrived yet.
冯婷怒了。
Feng Tingru is angry.
而物流方合伙人之一告诉《财经》记者，他自从知道越南在2月1日禁飞返华航班后，便把这批货物送至了柬埔寨，之后等待海关批文、申请飞机都花了时间。
One of the logistics partners told Caijing he had shipped the cargo to Cambodia after learning that Vietnam had banned a flight back to China on February 1, and that it had taken him time to obtain customs clearance and apply for a plane.
他说自己并不认识冯婷，也未告诉过她要去南宁机场等货。
He said he did not know Feng Ting, did not tell her to go to Nanning airport to wait for goods.
他是自从正月初五才来到越南做生意。
He only came to Vietnam to do business on the fifth day of the first month.
《财经》试图联系另一位可能知情的物流合伙人，但未成功。
Caijing tried unsuccessfully to contact another potential knowledgeable logistics partner.
事实上，其他被拖延货物的人们也在往佛山赶。
In fact, other delayed cargo people are also heading for Foshan.
许东家就在佛山附近，他自己开车过去了。
Xu's house is near Foshan. He drives by himself.
他的货被延误四五天时，他还选择相信物流客服的解释，毕竟对方的态度一直都很好。
When his goods were delayed four or five days, he also chose to believe the explanation of logistics customer service, after all, the other side of the attitude has always been good.
但交货一次次的推迟，他受不了了，决定去现场看看。
But the delivery was delayed time and time again, and he decided to go and see what was going on.
这对他来说是一件极耗费心力的事情。
It was a most exhausting thing for him.
许东是2月3日寄的这批货，当时的物流几乎是他300盒口罩价值的一半。
Xu Dong sent the goods on February 3, at a time when logistics were almost half the value of his 300-box mask.
但许东咬咬牙同意了。
But Xu agreed with his teeth.
自2月1日越南越南政府宣布将停飞所有赴华航班后，当时的中越物流公司几乎要停摆了。
Since the Vietnamese government announced on February 1 that it would suspend all flights to China, the then-Sino-Vietnamese logistics company was almost at a standstill.
他心想，这家价格这么贵，应该运输有保障。
The price is so high, he thought, that it should be transported with security.
而耀予的货则是定向捐赠给襄阳市武城县人民医院的。
Yiu's goods were donated to Xiangyang Wucheng County People's Hospital.
她把自己的4000只口罩捎在一位泉州老板的单子上，后者买了705箱口罩要运回国。
She brought her 4,000 masks to a Quanzhou proprietor, who bought 705 boxes of them to be shipped home.
但佛山仓库的发现让众人震惊了。
But the discovery of Foshan's warehouse shocked everyone.
他们的第一反应是自己被骗了，带有同批货物标识的纸盒提醒着他们，他们的货物已经达到国内，但是已经被处置了。
Their first reaction was that they had been tricked, and cartons bearing the same markings reminded them that their goods had reached the country but had been disposed of.
上述物流合伙人说，这其中也有误会。
There was also a misunderstanding, the logistics partner said.
冯婷的发货商有291箱货物，他让自己女儿取走了几箱，货物并不全是冯婷的。
Feng Ting's shipper has 291 boxes of goods, he let his daughter take away a few boxes, the goods are not all Feng Ting.
但这仍然激起了众人的怀疑。
But it still arouses suspicion.
看到现场的纸盒，冯婷质问物流方，但对方解释说把口罩“优先分配给了疫情严重的地方”。
Seeing the cardboard box at the scene, Feng Ting asked the logistics side, but the other side explained that the mask "priority assigned to the epidemic of places."
冯婷说，若货物真作捐赠，她可以接受，但对方却不能提供捐赠证明。
Feng Ting said she could accept the donation if it was actually donated, but the other side could not provide proof of donation.
后来，物流方又说货物都还在柬埔寨仓库里。
Later, the logistics side also said that the goods are still in the Cambodian warehouse.
有人便说，可以让朋友去现场仓库直接取货，但是物流方又不提供仓库地址。
Some people say, can let a friend go to the on-site warehouse to pick up goods directly, but the logistics side does not provide warehouse address.
冯婷告诉对方，这是一笔对接政府的物资。
Feng Ting told each other that this is a docking of government materials.
物流方后来便说，已经紧急把她的100多箱口罩发往了成都机场。
Logistics later said she had sent more than 100 cases of her mask to Chengdu airport.
于是特警们又从佛山驱车前往成都。
So the special police from Foshan driving to Chengdu.
但到了机场，却发现那批货并不是冯婷所买的那批。
When we arrived at the airport, we found that the goods were not the ones Feng Ting had bought.
至此，车上一行人已经在路上奔波了十余天，吃住都在车上，“身上都有了味道”，但原来的物资并没有拿到。
At this point, the car has been a party on the road for more than 10 days, eat and live in the car, "have a taste of the body," but the original material did not get.
信任感几近耗竭，冯婷和耀予都选择报了警。
Trust was almost exhausted, and Feng Ting and Yiu chose to call the police.
物流方的一名手下还陪他们一起去录了口供，给他们拉了维权群，说要为他们讨回公道。
Logistics side of one of their staff to accompany them to videotape confessions, to their advocacy groups, said that they want justice.
但是在一则受害人提供的录音里，物流老板对这名员工说起冯婷那批口罩，“我们卖了我们该赔就赔，该做就做，这才是我们的风格，亏了就亏了。
But in a recording provided by the victim, the logistics owner told the employee about Feng Ting's masks. "We sell what we should pay for, what we should do, that's our style.
”黎鸿认为，自己的货物也是被物流耽误了。
Mr Li thinks his goods have also been delayed by logistics.
他在2月5日前后通过伊尔库兹克申通寄出第一批口罩时，对方说，口罩一个星期能到国内，第二个星期能收到。
When he sent his first masks through Irkutsk around 5 February, he was told that they would be able to travel to the country within a week and receive them the following week.
等了半个月后，黎鸿才发现口罩“失踪”了：由于部分货物没有单号，他查不到物流信息；问物流方，对方表示是“海关滞留”。
After waiting for half a month, Li found the mask was "missing". He could not find the logistics information because some of the goods did not have a single number.
国内一部分没收到货的买家向警方报案要抓黎鸿，黎鸿很委屈，他说自己并不是骗子。
Not a part of the domestic buyers to report to the police to catch Li Hong, Li Hong very aggrieved, he said that he is not a liar.
疫情严重的时候，他忙着帮流落在湖北省外的武汉人寻找住处，偶然看到联系群内有口罩货源，才开始做起口罩代购的生意。
When the epidemic was severe, he was busy helping Wuhan people living outside Hubei province find shelter. He happened to see the source of masks in the contact group before he started the business of buying masks.
黎鸿了解到，其他在伊尔库兹克的华人也有他这样的遭遇。
Li Hong knew that other Chinese in Irkutsk had been subjected to the same treatment.
他所在的维权群内有十几号人，都反映遇到了发出货物没有货物单号，迟迟看不到物流信息的情况。
His advocacy group, a dozen people, have encountered the issue of goods without cargo manifest number, delayed the logistics information.
苑红军表示，目前他的处境也很“尴尬”。
The Reds said he was in an "awkward position".
海关货物滞留，无法及时运出，导致不少人对他都有误会，“不要拿中国思维和快递速度来想国际问题。
Customs cargo is stuck and cannot be shipped out in time, leading many people to misunderstand him, "Do not think about Chinese thinking and express speed to think about international issues."
”申通国际网络部负责人王黎明表示，快递方也是“进退两难”。
Wang Dawn, head of Shentong's international network division, said express delivery was also "in a dilemma."
由于2月20日之前国内快递网络还未实现全面复工，俄罗斯申通都是通过与俄罗斯邮政合作运输，为了提升快件寄递时效，部分快件到国内再转由其他快递公司派送。
Since the domestic express delivery network had not been fully restarted before 20 February, the Russian Federation had been working with the Russian postal service to transport some of the express items domestically and then forward them to other courier companies in order to improve the timeliness of express deliveries.
这一情况导致出现了物流信息滞后，部分单号未及时发出的问题。
This situation led to the logistics information lag, some of the list number not issued in time.
“在信息沟通方面，我们也有做的不到位的地方。
"In terms of information communication, we also have things that we don't do right.
”王黎明说。
"said Wang Dawn.
这批货物在被耽误了两周之后，目前运回国希望渺茫。
After a two-week delay, there is now little hope of repatriation.
3月2日，俄罗斯发布法案，禁止出口医疗物资，个人使用和捐赠物资仍可以出境。
On 2 March, Russia issued a bill banning the export of medical supplies, and the export of goods for personal use and donations remained possible.
这意味着，黎鸿作为贸易商品的两万只口罩最终可能无法到达国内买方手中，他也将面临十余万的损失。
This means that Li Hong's 20,000 face masks, which trade as commodities, may not end up in the hands of domestic buyers, and he will face losses of more than 100,000.
在每一张口罩运回国内的过程中，都需要经历多个环节。
Each mask has to go through several steps as it moves back into the country.
但是由于部分环节之间存在信息不对称的情况，人们的愤怒、脆弱和怀疑在链条上集聚，爆发。
But because of information asymmetries between segments of the chain, anger, vulnerability and suspicion build up and erupt.
在疫情期间，契约中的信任被打破，人们只能通过曲折的方式维权。
During the epidemic, the trust in the contract was broken, and people could only defend their rights through twists and turns.
申诉维权之难事实上作为一个精明的生意人，冯婷犯了糊涂。
In fact, as a shrewd businessman, Feng Tingzhi made a fool of himself.
她没有跟任何人签任何正式的协议。
She didn't sign any formal agreement with anyone.
她与发货商之间仅仅是公司副总介绍的信任关系，而具体合同是发货商跟物流方签的。
She and the shipper is only the company deputy general introduction of the trust relationship, and the specific contract is signed between the shipper and the logistics party.
上述物流合伙人对《财经》记者表示，“我说（冯婷）你给我拿一个采购合同来，但是她拿不出来，原则上我跟她没有任何关系。
"I said [Feng Ting] that you bring me a purchase contract, but she can not take it out, in principle I have nothing to do with her.
”在佛山事件之后，当事人坐下谈和解。
After Foshan, the parties sat down to talk about reconciliation.
冯婷起草了一份赔偿协议，她要求物流方赔偿291箱口罩，而不是150箱口罩货款——她虽只付了后者的钱，却说她跟发货商预定了前者的数额。
Ms. Feng, who drafted a compensation agreement, demanded compensation from the logistics company for 291 boxes of masks instead of 150 boxes, which she paid but said she had ordered from the shipper.
发货商对《财经》记者否认了这一点，并称这未签任何文件协议。
The shipper denied this to Caijing and said it had not signed any documentary agreement.
之后，发货商直接绕过冯婷跟物流公司达成了赔偿协议。
Subsequently, the shipper directly bypassed Feng Ting and logistics companies reached a compensation agreement.
在一份签订于2月16日的手写协议中，物流公司表示由于将发货商的货物“丢失”，按每片口罩1.8元的价格共赔偿其130万元。
In a handwritten agreement dated Feb. 16, the logistics company said it was paying $1.3 million per mask for "missing" shipments.
发货商想将赔款转给冯婷，叮嘱她“得饶人处且饶人”，但冯婷不想接受。
Shipper wants to transfer the compensation to Feng Ting, telling her "to be considerate and considerate," but Feng Ting did not want to accept.
她说她想要拿回的是货物。
She said she wanted the goods back.
问到为何没有更谨慎时，冯婷说，“有物资的（发货商）都是卖方市场，哪有时间订合同，大家都在抢，哄着让对方把货给我们。
Asked why not be more cautious, Feng Ting said, "there are materials (shippers) are the seller's market, there is no time to make a contract, everyone is fighting, coax each other to give us the goods.
”几乎所有口罩失踪的人们都未和物流方订立正式合同。
Almost all the people who went missing did not have a formal contract with the logistics company.
耀予的货是附在别人的单上，她甚至连收据都没有打。
Yaw's goods were attached to someone else's list. She didn't even get a receipt.
而对于黎鸿来说，他仅仅知道他的物流方是申通伊尔库兹克加盟商，但是对方收钱也没有出具申通的票据。
For Li Hung, he only knew that his logistics partner was Shentong Ilkuzk allies, but the other side did not receive money without a note.
黎鸿说，由于中国人在俄罗斯不能注册公司，除非让俄罗斯做法人代表，所以每个人都是现金交易，没有发票。
'Since the Chinese cannot register companies in Russia, unless Russia is given the status of a legal representative, everyone is a cash transaction without an invoice, 'Mr. Li said.
包括整个中国城，华人多是租赁摊位做批发，没有公司。
Including the entire Chinese city, the Chinese are mostly rental stalls do wholesale, no companies.
但更重要的是，“国难当头，我们倾向于相信陌生人的善意”。
But more importantly, "the country is in trouble, and we tend to trust the goodwill of strangers."
几位受害者都有类似的感慨。
Several of the victims shared similar sentiments.
河北张克锋律师事务所张克锋律师对《财经》记者表示，并不是没有合同消费者就无法维权，在生意关系中，双方的微信、短信、电话记录等视听资料，都可以作为法律上的证据，可以依此维权。
'Not that you can't defend your rights without a contract, 'Mr. Zhang Kefeng, a lawyer at Hebei's Zhang Kefeng law firm, told Caijing.' In a business relationship, audio-visual materials such as micro-letters, text messages and telephone records from both sides can be used as legal evidence to defend their rights.
而对于物流公司在货物运输过程中的职责与权益，张律师说，物流企业没有权力私自扣押、倒手运输的货物。
As for the logistics companies' duties and interests in the process of freight transportation, Zhang said that logistics enterprises do not have the right to seize and transport goods without permission.
即使是拿着所谓的“红头文件”，也不具备法律效益。
Even holding the so-called "red paper" is not legally effective.
除非是司法机关的协助执行等法律文书，才具有法律效力。
Legal instruments have the force of law only with the assistance of the judiciary.
他还表示，如今口罩乱象的背后原因还是在于供需失衡。
The reason behind the mask mess today, he says, is still an imbalance between supply and demand.
官方生产的口罩已被集中调配，至今没有公开如何使用的信息，人们不知道政府对于口罩这种急需的疫情物资的具体分配方式是怎样的。
Official masks have been centralized and there is no information on how to use them, and people do not know how the government distributes the much-needed supplies.
以至于几乎所有的百姓在药店买不到口罩，而出门被要求戴口罩，造成极度的尴尬。
Almost all the people in the drugstore can not buy masks, and out of the door was asked to wear masks, resulting in extreme embarrassment.
他认为，民众的口罩供应和疫情一线的口罩供应同样重要。
The supply of masks is as important as the supply of front-line masks, he said.
“在口罩供应这个过程中，也应该尊重市场的规律，充分保障百姓的基本需求，哪怕是适当的高价口罩，百姓在药店也买不到。
"In the process of supplying masks, we should also respect the laws of the market and fully guarantee the basic needs of the people, even if appropriate high-priced masks, people can not buy in pharmacies.
可是另一方面，私下的交易甚至口罩诈骗案却很猖獗，最终倒霉的还是老百姓。
On the other hand, private deals and even mask fraud are rampant, and ultimately bad luck for the people.
”张律师说。
"said Zhang.
如今，也有不少企业都在加开口罩生产线，但依然远远无法满足需求，这背后也是口罩原料的稀缺。
Today, many companies are also opening mask production lines, but still far from meeting the demand, this is behind the scarcity of mask raw materials.
一位口罩行业相关人士对《财经》记者表示，曾有一位泉州市委的人拿着政府文件找他要口罩原料熔喷布，但是也没得供应。
A mask industry source told Caijing that a Quanzhou municipal councilor had approached him with government documents for a melt-out of mask ingredients, but was not supplied.
熔喷布的原料来自于中石化提供的聚丙烯，生产熔喷布的企业数量有限，决定了熔喷布的产量有限。
The raw material for the spray cloth comes from polypropylene supplied by Sinopec, and the limited number of enterprises producing it determines its limited production.
如今熔喷布已经由一万块/吨涨到几十万/吨。
Now the melting pot has risen from ten thousand to hundreds of thousands of tons.
中石化还自己专辟了一条产线生产熔喷布。
Sinopec has also set up its own production line to produce melts.
在这种背景下，海外口罩成为了十分重要的物资。
In this context, overseas masks have become a very important material.
许多人的口罩都是通过微商从海外代购所得。
Many people buy their masks from overseas through microvendors.
物资来之不易。
Materials are hard won.
在与物流公司的斡旋中，不同的人选择不同。
In the mediation with logistics companies, different people choose different.
物流方提供了几种补偿方案，要么接受固定价格的赔偿款（大概54元/盒，一元零八分/只），要么补发可能非原批的口罩，受害者需承诺永不追责。
The logistics provider offers several compensation options, either a fixed price compensation (approximately $54 / box, $1.08 / item) or a replacement of a mask that may not have been originally approved. The victim has to promise never to be held accountable.
一些受害者答应了。
Some of the victims agreed.
许东看到一些受害者收到物流公司补发的货，一看就不是原来的正规物资，“口罩上印着卡通、钢铁侠，有的很薄、很脏。
Xu Dong saw some of the victims received logistics companies reissued goods, a look is not the original formal material, "masks printed on cartoon, Iron Man, some very thin, very dirty.
”物流公司后来也给他补发货了，他说自己一定要当场查验，如果不是自己的就不签收。
The logistics company later delivered the goods to him, saying he would have to inspect them on the spot and not sign if they didn't own them.
但收到快递那天，他知道不是自己的货，编码不一致，还是选择签收了，“我很想骂他们，但是我得假装平静，”他说，“也只能这样了，反正警也报了，他们说后面还会发。
But on the day he received the delivery, he knew it was not his own goods, the code was not consistent, or he chose to sign it. "I want to scold them, but I have to pretend calm," he said.
”耀予则是强硬做派。
Yiu is a hard-line guy.
她会直呼物流老板的名字，语气严厉地说，“你这样做是在犯罪！”但让她惊讶的是，她不管多凶对方都会随时回复她。
She would call the logistics boss by the name, saying harshly, "You're committing a crime!" But to her surprise, she was ready to reply no matter how fierce she was.
她觉得，这是否证明了对方也在试图做一些补救，“不是破罐破摔。
She felt that it was proof that the other person was trying to do something about it, too.
”在和物流老板的沟通的过程中，耀予隐约担心对方是有背景的，自己会有危险。
In the process of communicating with the logistics boss, Yiu vaguely worried that the other person had a background and was in danger.
在用尽各种手段后，物流老板终于给她找到了两箱物资中的一箱，她想着是不是这一箱上面写了“人民医院”几个字，于是没有被动。
After exhausting all the means, the logistics boss finally found her a box of two materials, she wondered if the box was written "People's Hospital", so there was no passive.
而另一个物资箱装的是500个N95和一些药品，上面没写字，耀予觉得找回来的希望不大了。
The other kit, containing 500 N95 and some medicine, had no writing on it, and Yiu felt there was little hope of finding it.
黎鸿则是“两头难做”，他既要向物流方“要个说法”，也要面临来自国内的维权诉求。
Li Hongsheng is "two difficult to do," he would like to logistics "a statement," but also from the domestic demand for rights.
他认为快递方应该承担部分责任。
He thinks the courier should take some of the blame.
但由于语言不通，在俄罗斯“报案难度很大”。
But because of language difficulties, reporting is difficult in Russia.
国内托黎鸿代购口罩的买方一部分表示理解，可以再等等；但还有一部分已经在国内报了警，认为黎鸿在欺诈。
Some of the buyers of the mask bought by Tori Hung in China understand it and can wait; but others have already reported it to the police at home, believing Li is cheating.
目前国内地方警方已经勒令黎鸿退还款项，数额达到十余万。
At present, local police in China have ordered Li Hong to refund the amount of more than 100,000.
伊尔库兹克申通网点负责人苑红军表示，发货时都跟发货人提醒过“不保证时效”，目前出现了海关滞留情况，物流公司也“无能为力”，他们能做的就是为发货人退回货物，并退还物流费用。
The Red Army, the head of Irkutsk Shentong's network, said it had been warned by shippers at the time of delivery that there was "no guarantee of a time limit," that there was a case of customs detention and that logistics companies were "powerless" to return goods to shippers and refund logistics costs.
疫情是人性的镜子常年在越南从事农产品的跨境贸易，许东在家的时间不多，陪伴孩子也很少。
The epidemic is a mirror of human nature. He has been engaged in cross-border trade in agricultural products in Vietnam for years.
中国国内疫情爆发时，他看到家长群里教务处长在问，有没有家长可以帮忙拿到口罩。
When the outbreak broke out in China, he saw the head of the faculty asking if any parents could help him get the mask.
“小意思”，他对儿子说。
"Small talk," he said to his son.
心里想的是，其他家长都拿不到，自己多有面子。
In my heart, the other parents can not get, how much face they have.
而到现在，他只感到“郁闷”，庆幸自己当时没有在群里接教务处长的话，“不然都会觉得我是个大忽悠。
But so far, he feels "depressed", glad that he did not meet the head of the academic staff in the group, "otherwise I would feel like a fool.
”他不敢再跟儿子提及此事，还有的亲戚笑他在越南多年，却运不回口罩，“原来你在越南混得不过如此。
"He didn't dare to mention it to his son. Other relatives laughed at him for years but couldn't get his mask back.
”“疫情是反映人性的一面镜子”，许东说。
"The epidemic is a mirror of human nature," Xu said.
一些有爱心的人被坑了，口罩也没有用到该用的地方去，他觉得价格炒到最后，口罩的价格已经远远高于它本身的价值了。
Some people with love are in the pit, the mask is not used where it should be, and he thinks the price goes last, the price of the mask is much higher than its own value.
有时耀予会想，“如果没有这4000个口罩，医生会发生什么？”口罩物资“失踪”后，那位人民医院的医生曾哭着给她打电话，说医院去武汉领来的物资很少，家里把仅剩的三个医用口罩都留给他了，家人们在用秋衣缝口罩。
Sometimes Yiu thought, "What would have happened to the doctor without the 4000 masks?" After the mask was "missing," the doctor at the People's Hospital cried to her and told her that the hospital had brought very few supplies to Wuhan.
她见识过口罩的水有多深。
She has seen how deep the mask is.
她的表弟为了拿到满足医院标准的的一次性医用口罩，付了货款后，在机场等了11个小时，最后等来的却是满足民用标准的口罩。
After paying for a disposable medical mask that meets hospital standards, her cousin waited 11 hours at the airport before waiting for a mask that met civilian standards.
“医生把命交给口罩，你买得不合格了都是致命的”。
"The doctor gives his life to the mask. It's fatal if you fail to buy it."
现在，耀予不再对接口罩物资了，她只对接防护面罩等物资。
Now, Yiu is no longer docking supplies for the mask. She docks only the protective mask and so on.
黎鸿把自己在俄罗斯找口罩的经历形容为，“就跟《泰囧》差不多，比《泰囧》还复杂好几倍。
Li described his experience in Russia looking for a mask as "about the same as" Teejon "and several times more complex than" Tesjoon. "
经历了很多凶险的事情。
There's been a lot of bad stuff going on.
”他被骗过好几次。
He had been cheated several times.
有一次是在中国城，从一个中国人那买了1万个劣质口罩，“从俄罗斯人那里买的都没问题”。
On one occasion, in Chinatown, 10,000 shoddy masks were bought from a Chinese. "There's nothing wrong with buying them from Russians."
货是一个朋友经手的，他一开始不是做这行的，只能摸着石头过河。
The goods are handled by a friend, he did not do this line at the beginning, can only feel the stone across the river.
他一共给中国发了50万个口罩，有时候他被人骗，就自己贴钱把两层口罩换成了三层口罩，“两层口罩是安徽、湖北、孝感、咸宁这些地方国产的，质量不达标。
He has sent half a million masks to China, and sometimes he has been tricked into replacing two masks with three. "The two-storey masks are made in Anhui, Hubei, Xianning and other places, and the quality is not up to standard.
”黎鸿也被偷过口罩，有一次他发了一万个，寄到就只有九千个了，被骗，被偷，目前还面对一定的刑事责任。
Li Hong, too, had been robbed of a mask, and once he had sent ten thousand to nine thousand, had been tricked, stolen, and was now facing a certain degree of criminal responsibility.
他曾免费给国内的一家三口送过100个口罩，但收到后对方提出“能不能再送几百个”，“不给的话他就骂我，挺灰心、失望的，这次疫情也是对身边的朋友进行了人性的筛选。
He gave 100 masks to three families in China for free, but when he received them, he asked if he could deliver hundreds more. If not, he scolded me, frustrated and disappointed.
”最让黎鸿觉得难受的是，国内不少人对他做口罩贸易的事情不能理解，称他为“口罩贩子”，“发国难财”。
"What made Li Hong feel uncomfortable most was that many people in China could not understand what he was doing in the mask trade, calling him a" mask dealer "and" making the country rich. "
但在黎鸿看来，自己历经困难在国外为朋友们找到口罩，给他们解决了实实在在的困难，收点辛苦费“无可厚非”。
But in Li Hong's view, he went through difficulties to find masks for his friends abroad, gave them a real solution to the difficulties, a bit of hardship "beyond reproach."
更何况，因为物流原因耽误了部分口罩发货，他还不得不承担十余万的退货亏损。
What's more, because of logistics reasons delayed the delivery of some masks, he had to bear more than 100,000 return losses.
来俄罗斯前，黎鸿在国内的公司破产，上了征信名单，“一个人破产之后，救助别人的时候做事就没有顾忌了，因为没有什么可亏了。
Before coming to Russia, Li Hongsheng's company went bankrupt and went on a credit-seeking list. "When a person goes bankrupt, he has no scruples about rescuing others because there is nothing to lose."
”他在俄罗斯大使馆和移民局协调了一个居中的方案，正在申请三个月的疫情避难。
He coordinated an intermediary programme at the Russian embassy and immigration office and is seeking asylum for a three-month outbreak.
但是三个月这个申请大可能会被驳回，因为一旦承认了避难申请俄罗斯就必须为这些难民提供吃和住。
But the application is likely to be rejected within three months, because Russia must provide food and shelter to the refugees once they have been recognized.
对于剩下一万多个被海关退回的口罩，他目前打算捐赠出去。
He now plans to donate the more than 10,000 face masks that have been returned by customs.
“人家帮了我们，我们也应该帮帮他们。
"We have been helped, and we ought to have helped them.
”冯婷和物流公司的抗争还在继续推进。
Feng Ting and logistics companies continue to struggle.
3月2日，物流方告诉她，从柬埔寨金边发运回国的37.5万只口罩已经运抵广东并清关出货，存放在佛山南海区的某清关公司库房。
On 2 March, she was informed by logistics sources that 375,000 face masks repatriated from Phnom Penh, Cambodia, had arrived in Guangdong and cleared for shipment to a customs clearance company warehouse in Foshan South China Sea.
李宏要求冯婷出具证明证实收到的口罩与2月上旬“丢失“的是同一批口罩，并不再追究他的责任，他就马上把货发到自贡。
Li Hong asked Feng Ting to issue a certificate confirming the receipt of the mask and early February "lost" is the same batch of masks, and no longer hold him accountable, he immediately sent the goods to Zigong.
上述物流合伙人对《财经》记者打包票地说，那批物资就是原来那批。
The logistics partner assured Caijing that the goods were the original batch.
但冯婷并不相信了，她说这肯定不是他们当初购买的那批物资，更别说出具证明。
But Feng didn't believe it. She said it was definitely not the material they had purchased, let alone certified it.
等到3月9日，物流方又主动联系冯婷，说这批口罩“有质量问题“，无法交付给骏宸集团。
Wait until March 9, logistics side again contact Feng Ting actively, say this batch of masks "have quality problem", cannot deliver to Jun Chen group.
佛山警方已经通知上述物流合伙人，最迟本月20日必须回国，配合警方就口罩丢失案件协助调查。
Foshan police have informed the logistics partners that they must return home by the 20th of this month to cooperate with the police in the investigation of the loss of masks.
冯婷说，物流公司在他们最需要口罩的关键时刻“弄丢”了口罩，让一线人员无口罩可用，且让企业与她的声誉受到了严重影响，她不会妥协。
Fung Ting said the logistics companies' lost 'masks at a critical time when they needed them most, leaving front-line staff without masks and seriously tarnishing the reputation of the company and her.
她必须要找回自己原来的口罩，不接受调货，她也不会预付任何款项，“一切要等货真的到了自贡再说。
She would have to retrieve her original mask, not accept the delivery, and she would not make any advance payments until the goods really reached Zigong.
”冯婷性情温和，但这次她忍不了了，她质问物流方，“你（这样做）难道没有觉得很内疚吗？”对方回答，“我做生意，为什么要内疚。
"Feng Ting gentle, but this time she can not bear it, she asked the logistics side," you [do this] do not feel very guilty? "The other side replied," I do business, why should guilt.
”（文中许东为化名，实习生马可欣对本文亦有贡献）作者为《财经》记者责编 | 黄端duanhuang@caijing.com.cn。
(Xu Dong is a pseudonym, and intern Ma Kexin has contributed to the article.) The author is Caijing Reporters; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“被消失”的口罩：谁掀翻了边境线上的百万生意。
"Vanished" mask: Who overturned a million businesses on the border?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "“被消失”的口罩：谁掀翻了边境线上的百万生意";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情期间口罩紧缺导致价格飞涨，跨境口罩交易因此异常活跃。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The cross-border mask trade was booming as a result of a shortage of face masks during the epidemic.
这是一个关于越南口罩收货人和俄罗斯口罩发货人的故事，他们都在中间的物流环节出现了问题。
This is the story of the consignee of a Vietnamese mask and the consignor of a Russian mask, both of which have problems in the middle logistics chain.
“疫情是人性的一面镜子”，人与人之间最重要的信任感与名誉，被稀释了";。
"The epidemic is a mirror of human nature," and the most important sense of trust and reputation with people has been diluted with & quot;;
title: '援鄂医疗队荣归，火神山工人仍困隔离点，至少9人确诊',。
At least nine people were diagnosed with S. E. O. 's service when its medical team returned.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '钟南山当总顾问、最贵入职金加持，富士康为何仍不能全面复工',。
Why did Foxconn not fully resume service at & nbsp; with Zhong Nan Shan as its general counsel and most valuable addition to its ranks?
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '疫情放大三星危机，越南基地缺人缺料缺协同',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '潘石屹为何走到“贱卖”SOHO这一步',。
& # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
