研发新冠疫苗，全球96个团队谁能跑赢？。
Develop a new crown vaccine, 96 teams around the world who can run to win?
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
除速度外，安全性、有效性，是这场疫苗研发竞赛的重要考量标准。
In addition to speed, safety, effectiveness, the vaccine development competition is an important consideration criteria.
如何权衡取舍，目前领跑的中美两支研发团队给出了不同的解决方案文|《财经》记者赵天宇王小编辑|王小“什么时候能打上新冠疫苗，够安全吗？”，这是新冠肺炎全球流行后的一个焦点问题。
How to weigh the trade-offs between the two leading U.S. and Chinese research and development teams has come up with different solutions. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
在疫情暴发两个多月后，中美两国的疫苗研发均渐有眉目。
More than two months after the outbreak of the outbreak, vaccine research and development in China and the United States are beginning to emerge.
3月16日，美国生物科技公司Moderna的新冠病毒试验性疫苗，跳过动物实验，直接开始人体试验；同日，中国军事科学院军事医学研究院陈薇院士领衔与天津疫苗公司康希诺联合开发的重组新冠疫苗，获批启动临床试验。
On March 16, US biotech firm Moderna's experimental vaccine for the new canopy virus jumped the animal test and started human trials directly. On the same day, Academician Chen Wei of the Institute of Military Medicine of the Chinese Academy of Military Sciences was approved to start clinical trials with a recombinant new crown vaccine jointly developed with Tianjin vaccine company Consino.
中美这两支研发团队的共同点是，都摒弃了传统的疫苗技术路线，使用新的技术平台，以求速度。
What the two R & D teams have in common is a move away from traditional vaccine technology and toward new technological platforms for speed.
他们的进展也确实超出一些业内人士此前的预估。
They are also making more progress than some in the industry had expected.
世界卫生组织（WHO）统计显示，截至3月13日，全球共有41个候选疫苗在研发。
As of March 13, 41 candidate vaccines were under development worldwide, according to the World Health Organization.
另外一组统计数据是，截至3月17日，和君医药医疗事业部的不完全统计，全球新冠疫苗研发项目66个，至少有96家公司和学术团体，已经宣布了66个新冠病毒疫苗开发计划。
Another set of statistics shows that as of March 17, 66 new vaccine research and development projects worldwide, at least 96 companies and academic groups, and 66 new crown virus vaccine development plans had been announced, according to incomplete statistics from the Health Ministry.
从WHO的统计清单中可见，全球更多的是小企业加入这场疫苗研发竞技。
More small businesses around the world are joining the race to develop the vaccine, according to the WHO's statistical list.
对这些小企业而言，因为尚处于技术开发阶段，对风险的承受能力比较大，而且新技术有可能“抄近道”进而快速获得进展，还可获得政府的资金和政策支持。
For these small enterprises, which are still in the technology development stage, are more risk-tolerant, and new technologies are likely to "cut corners" and thus make rapid progress, with access to government funding and policy support.
“赌这一把，成了，对这个公司是翻天覆地的改变；输了，公司也可以根据实践经验来完善自家的技术。
"If you bet on this, it's a huge change for the company; if you lose, you can hone your skills based on practical experience.
”美国宾夕法尼亚大学医学院副教授张洪涛对《财经》记者分析。
Zhang Hongtao, an associate professor at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, told Caijing.
中美研发路径选择差异：一个是有效性，一个是安全性在新冠疫苗研发中，全球多数团队都摒弃了传统疫苗技术——灭活或减毒疫苗，转而选择新的技术路线。
One is effectiveness, the other is safety. In the development of the new crown vaccine, most teams around the world have abandoned the traditional vaccine technology - inactivated or attenuated vaccines - in favor of a new technological route.
Moderna公司与美国国家过敏和传染病研究所（NIAID）合作，选择的技术路线是mRNA疫苗。
In cooperation with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) of the United States, Moderna chose the technical route as mRNA vaccine.
当地时间3月16日，43岁的健康志愿者Jennifer Haller在西雅图成为第一个接受mRNA疫苗注射的受试者。
Jennifer Haller, a 43-year-old health volunteer, became the first person to be inoculated with mRNA in Seattle on March 16, local time.
选择mRNA技术路线，“有点抄近路的意思”，张洪涛对《财经》记者分析，由于这种疫苗注射到人体内的是RNA或DNA，进入人体后产生病毒蛋白，并不是直接注射病毒抗原，可以假设不同的疫苗可能出现的安全性问题比较相似。
Choosing the mRNA route, "a bit of a shortcut," Zhang Hongtao told Caijing that since the vaccine is injected into RNA or DNA, it produces viral proteins in the body that are not directly injected with viral antigens, it can be assumed that different vaccines have similar safety concerns.
所以，从安全性上考虑，之前若已经以同样的技术路线做过另一种病毒的疫苗，可以拿这些实验数据作为新疫苗的安全性的证据来报批，这样就可以快速的进入临床试验阶段。
So, for safety reasons, if a vaccine for another virus has previously been made on the same technical route, the experimental data can be used as evidence of the safety of the new vaccine for approval, so that clinical trials can proceed quickly.
这和传统疫苗大不相同，如灭活或减活疫苗，原理是让人体轻度、适量的感染，进而产生抗体。
This is very different from traditional vaccines, such as inactivated or inactivated vaccines, the principle is to let the human body mild, moderate infection, and then produce antibodies.
灭活疫苗基本上没有毒性，减毒疫苗会有一点毒性，所以在常规疫苗开发中，非常强调安全性，需要通过动物实验、临床试验等一系列的验证过程。
The inactivated vaccine is basically non-toxic, and the attenuated vaccine is a little toxic, so in the development of conventional vaccines, there is a strong emphasis on safety, through a series of animal experiments, clinical trials and so on.
mRNA疫苗却可以节省做动物实验的时间，直接进入Ⅰ期临床试验，既节省了部分试验时间，也会节省研发经费。
However, mRNA vaccines can save time in animal experiments and direct access to phase I clinical trials, saving both part of the trial time and research and development costs.
灭活或减活疫苗至少要半年到一年的时间去做动物实验。
It takes at least half a year to do animal experiments for inactivated or inactivated vaccines.
Moderna公司就跳过了动物实验的步骤。
Modern Company skipped the steps of the animal experiment.
该公司首席医学官Tal Zaks辩称，“我不认为在动物模型中证明这一点，是将其用于临床试验的关键途径，美国国立卫生研究院的科学家正在并行开展非临床研究。
Tal Zaks, the company's chief medical officer, argues, "I don't think that proving this in animal models is a key way to use it in clinical trials, where scientists from the National Institutes of Health are conducting parallel non-clinical studies."
”是否应跳过动物实验，业内评价不一，不过在美国食品和药品监督管理局（FDA）是行得通的。
Whether animal experiments should be skipped is a matter of debate in the industry, but it works in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
3月16日，美国纽约血液中心病毒学教授姜世勃发表在国际学术期刊《自然》的评论文章提醒，对SARS病毒的研究表明，令人担忧的免疫反应出现在雪貂和猴子身上，而在小鼠中却没有。
Studies of the SARS virus have shown worrying immune responses in ferrets and monkeys, but not in mice, Jiang Shibo, a virology professor at the New York Blood Center, warned March 16, in a commentary in the international academic journal Nature.
不同的病毒蛋白片段引发的免疫反应也不尽相同，因此在人体临床试验之前，有必要先在动物研究中了解这一点。
Different fragments of viral proteins elicit different immune responses, so it is important to understand this in animal studies before conducting clinical trials in humans.
对Moderna公司最不利的还在于，全球范围内，至今没有任何基于mRNA技术平台研发的疫苗，获得上市批准。
The biggest disadvantage for Moderna is that, globally, no vaccine based on the mRNA technology platform has yet been approved for marketing.
陈薇团队选择的是腺病毒载体疫苗。
Chen Wei's team chose the adenovirus carrier vaccine.
3月6日，国家卫健委医药卫生科技发展研究中心主任郑忠伟在国务院新闻发布会上介绍，这类疫苗的研究和国外基本处于同步，或在某些环节略有领先。
On March 6, Zheng Zhongwei, director of the National Center for Medical, Health and Scientific Development and Research of the State Council, told a State Council press conference that the research on this type of vaccine is basically in step with or slightly ahead of the rest of the world.
腺病毒载体疫苗的原理是，利用腺病毒搭载抗原蛋白的基因序列，递送至人体内后产生病毒抗原。
The adenovirus vector vaccine works by using adenovirus to carry the gene sequence of antigen protein and deliver it to the body to produce viral antigen.
这类疫苗的代表作是埃博拉疫苗。
The representative example of this vaccine is the Ebola vaccine.
3月18日，一位康希诺总裁办工作人员告诉《财经》记者，新冠疫苗的开发基于公司此前的腺病毒载体平台的技术，这个技术平台已在埃博拉疫苗的研发中得到过验证。
On March 18, a Conshino CEO told Caijing that the development of the new crown vaccine was based on the company's previous adenovirus carrier platform, which had been validated in the development of an Ebola vaccine.
这两个疫苗运用了相似的技术平台，但并不是完全相同，而且也和任何一个疫苗的研发过程一样，各个步骤都是不能省略的。
The two vaccines use similar technical platforms, but they are not identical, and, like any vaccine development process, each step cannot be omitted.
张洪涛告诉《财经》记者，这类疫苗的技术路线是可行的，也可以表达抗原，风险则在于安全性，因为该疫苗同时引入了作为载体的腺病毒，而腺病毒本身也是一种病毒，虽然在疫苗设计中会考虑到病毒复制的风险，但整个技术路线的安全性尚未经历过大规模使用的验证。
Zhang told Caijing that the vaccine's technical route is feasible and can express antigens, and that the risk is safety, because the vaccine introduces both adenoviruses as vectors and the adenovirus itself is a virus, and while the risk of viral replication is taken into account in vaccine design, the safety of the entire technical route has not yet been validated by large-scale use.
研发新冠疫苗有点像赌博即便疫情汹汹，各国政府也不可能在确认疫苗的安全性和有效性之前，就大规模给民众接种。
Developing a new crown vaccine is a bit like gambling. Governments cannot vaccinate people on a large scale before they know for sure the vaccine is safe and effective, even if the epidemic is raging.
美国国立卫生研究院（NIH）此前曾表示，整个临床试验过程可能需要长达14个月。
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) have previously said the entire clinical trial process could take up to 14 months.
特朗普不止一次问科研人员是否可以几个月内研发疫苗，得到的都是否定答案。
Trump has asked researchers more than once whether a vaccine can be developed within a few months, and he has been told in the negative.
3月16日的消息显示，中美两个团队分别进入Ⅰ期临床试验，已经让业内叹为观止。
On March 16, two teams entered the first phase of clinical trials in China and the United States, which has surprised the industry.
疫苗Ⅰ期临床试验的目的是验证安全性，观察其是否会出现明显的副作用。
The goal of phase I clinical trials is to verify safety and to see if there are significant side effects.
Moderna跳过动物实验，已经有志愿者注射；陈薇团队完成动物实验，正在招募志愿者。
Moderna skipped animal experiments and volunteers have been injected; Chen's team has completed animal experiments and is recruiting volunteers.
截至3月18日，国际临床试验备案网站clinicaltrials.gov上，Moderna公司的新冠疫苗Ⅰ期临床试验仍在招募健康的受试者，共45人，在第1天、第29天接种疫苗，然后对其进行为期12个月的跟踪随访，以评估疫苗的的安全性，反应原性和免疫原性。
As of March 18, the international clinical trial filing site clinicaltrials.gov, the Molerna I clinical trial is still recruiting healthy subjects, 45 of them, to be vaccinated on Day 1, Day 29, followed by a 12-month follow-up to assess vaccine safety, reactivity and immunogenicity.
预计试验完成时间是2021年6月1日。
The expected date of completion of the test is 1 June 2021.
《财经》记者获得的一份“重组新型冠状病毒疫苗（腺病毒载体）临床研究招募启事”显示，“前期，为预防新冠病毒感染，疫苗研发者陈薇院士团队等7人已应急接种该疫苗，目前各类指标特征良好，未观测到需要处置的不良反应。
"Seven people, including the team of vaccine developer Academician Chen Wei, have been vaccinated against the new coronavirus infection earlier this year," Caijing said. "Seven people, including Academician Chen Wei, have been vaccinated against the virus.
”张洪涛认为，腺病毒载体疫苗Ⅰ期临床如果能通过，就意味着安全性得到了初步验证，便能够顺利进入Ⅱ期临床。
Zhang Hongtao said the adenovirus carrier vaccine, if passed in phase I clinic, would mean that safety had been preliminarily verified and could be successfully introduced into phase II clinical trials.
如果安全性没有问题，与mRNA疫苗相比，腺病毒载体疫苗效果可能会更好，有效性更为可期。
If safety is not a problem, the adenovirus vector vaccine may be more effective and predictable than the mRNA vaccine.
Ⅱ期临床尝试证明疫苗的有效性，就必须在更大规模的人群中进行接种，观察是否可以有效预防新冠病毒感染。
Phase II clinical trials to prove the effectiveness of the vaccine, must be carried out in a larger population to observe whether effective prevention of the new crown virus infection.
同时，如果疫苗只是在较少的接种者中会出现严重的安全性问题，也只有在大规模的临床试验或者使用中才更容易被发现。
At the same time, if vaccines cause serious safety problems only in relatively small numbers of vaccinators, they are more likely to be detected only in large-scale clinical trials or use.
即便是考虑到新冠病毒传播速度快，要完成Ⅱ期临床试验，也至少还需要10个月到一年的时间。
Even considering the rapid spread of the new crown virus, it will take at least 10 months to a year to complete phase II clinical trials.
张洪涛说，分析临床试验数据就得花上一两个月。
Zhang Hongtao said it would take a month or two to analyze clinical trial data.
WHO公布的候选疫苗企业名单中，以色列科学家创立的免疫疗法公司Vaxil名列其中。
Vaxil, an immunotherapy company founded by Israeli scientists, is on the WHO list of candidate vaccine companies.
3月10日，该公司CEO 大卫·戈伦（David Goren）告诉《财经》记者，他们在2月决定探索新冠疫苗，已确定了候选品种，希望能尽快开展临床前的工作。
On March 10, David Goren, CEO of Caijing, told Caijing that they had decided in February to explore new canopy vaccines and had identified candidate strains in the hope that pre-clinical work could begin as soon as possible.
他们正在努力加速疫苗的研发，何时进入临床试验阶段、何时上市，仍很难预测。
They are working to speed up vaccine development, and it is still difficult to predict when clinical trials will begin and when they will go on the market.
这间公司研发的是一种蛋白质亚基疫苗，基于公司已有的研发平台。
The company has developed a protein-based subvaccine based on its existing research and development platform.
戈伦说，我们相信它具备有效性和安全性，希望在随后的临床前试验、临床试验中证明这个判断。
'We believe it is effective and safe, 'he said.' We hope to prove it in subsequent clinical trials and trials.
强生公司旗下的Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies，也在WHO公布的名单中。
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies, part of Johnson & Johnson, is also on the WHO list.
这间公司正在研发新冠病毒的非复制型病毒载体疫苗。
The company is working on a non-replicative viral vector vaccine for the new crown virus.
3月6日，这间公司的工作人员回复《财经》记者，“我们希望可以在2020年底之前，开始对新冠疫苗进行Ⅰ期临床研究”，此次选择的疫苗开发技术路径，与此前公司研发埃博拉疫苗的技术相同。
On March 6, the company's staff responded to Caijing, saying: "We hope to be able to begin a phase I clinical study of the new crown vaccine by the end of 2020," choosing a vaccine development pathway similar to that used by the company before it was developed.
可如今的情形，与17年前的SARS疫情颇似，疫情持续了8个多月，但直到疫情发生后的20个月，才有疫苗研发出来。
Today, much like the SARS epidemic 17 years ago, the outbreak lasted more than eight months, but it was not developed until 20 months after the outbreak.
在研的疫苗与抗病毒药物，极有可能无法在此次疫情结束前发挥作用。
Vaccines and antiviral drugs developed are unlikely to be effective until the end of the epidemic.
面对可能赔钱赚吆喝的尴尬，一位国内疫苗企业负责人说，“先做起来再说。
Confronted with the prospect of losing money, one national vaccine executive said, "Do it first.
”“研发新冠疫苗有点像一种赌博。
"Developing a new crown vaccine is a bit of a gamble.
”张洪涛告诉《财经》记者，疫苗开发的成功与否是未知的，尤其是面对一种可能会突然消失的病毒。
Zhang told Caijing that the success of vaccine development was unknown, especially in the face of a virus that could suddenly disappear.
姜世勃也提示，新冠病毒可能会发生突变，从而使以往有效的疫苗和抗病毒药失去作用。
Jiang also suggested that the new crown virus could mutate, rendering previously effective vaccines and antiviral drugs ineffective.
因此，任何监管机构在考虑加速测试药物或疫苗时，也应权衡它们是否具备在新冠病毒之外发挥作用的可能性。
So any regulator considering accelerating the testing of drugs or vaccines should also weigh whether they have the potential to act outside the new crown virus.
小公司不怕两手空空并不是人人都看好疫苗，参与这场竞赛的公司也是心态不一。
Small companies are not afraid to have empty hands and not everyone is bullish on vaccines, and the companies involved in the race are in different moods.
3月12日，美国新墨西哥州卫生部在给媒体的一封邮件中表示：与开发疫苗和药物相比，该州的资源将更多投入到延缓、阻止新冠疫情中。
In an e-mail to the media on March 12, New Mexico's Department of Health said the state's resources would be spent more on delaying and halting the new crown than on developing vaccines and drugs.
张洪涛分析，那些拥有多种疫苗的大公司没有进入新冠疫苗研发的阵营，皆按兵不动，因为觉得机会渺茫。
Zhang Hongtao's analysis showed that the big companies with multiple vaccines did not make it into the campaign to develop the new vaccine, because they felt that the chances were slim.
如果确定这个病毒与人类社会共存的可能性非常大，他们也许会行动起来。
If the likelihood of the virus coexisting with human society is determined to be high, they may act.
国外在积极尝试新冠疫苗研发的公司多数规模比较小，即便是率先开始临床试验的公司Moderna，至今为止也没有任何获批的药物或疫苗。
Most of the companies that are actively experimenting with new crown vaccines abroad are relatively small, and even the company that pioneered clinical trials, Moderna, has so far not had any approved drugs or vaccines.
Moderna不但获得美国国家卫生研究院提供资金，还有来自“流行病防备创新联盟”（CEPI）的资助，这是一家总部位于挪威的非营利组织，比尔盖茨基金会是该组织的一个主要资金来源。
Moderna is funded not only by the National Institutes of Health, but also by the Epidemic Preparedness and Innovation Coalition (CEPI), a Norwegian-based non-profit organization whose main source of funding is the Bill Gates Foundation.
小型生物公司技术、团队都更灵活，掉头快，开发新冠疫苗可获得政府的资金和政策支持，也会得到市场的追捧，在宣布研发新冠疫苗的信息之后，美国生物公司Inovio Pharmaceuticals、Moderna的股价都一度大幅上涨。
Small biotech companies, with their more flexible technology, faster teams, and access to government funding and policy support for the development of a new cap vaccine, will also be sought after the announcement of information on the development of a new crown vaccine, the shares of American biotech companies Inovio Pharmaceuticals and Modern have all risen sharply.
一些新冠疫苗研究机构也获得了民间捐赠。
A number of new crown vaccine research institutes have also received private donations.
2月，马云公益基金会捐赠中国科学院和中国工程院各2000万元，用于其所属专业研究机构当前病毒疫苗专项研发；另外，还捐赠澳大利亚Peter Doherty感染与免疫研究所320万澳元（约1470万人民币）以支持后者新冠疫苗的研发工作。
In February, the Ma Foundation donated 20 million yuan each to the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering for research and development of the current virus vaccine in their professional research institutes, and $3.2 million (about Rmb14.7 million) from the Peter Doherty Institute for Infectious Diseases and Immunization in Australia to support the development of the latter's new crown vaccine.
全球疫苗约90%的市场份额掌握在英国葛兰素史克、美国辉瑞和默沙东、法国赛诺菲巴斯德四家手中。
About 90% of the global vaccine market share is in the hands of GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer and Mercado in the UK and Sanofi Pasteur in France.
然而，在新冠疫情初期，他们一一缺席。
In the early days of the new crown, however, they were all absent.
进入二月，除了默沙东依旧按兵不动，葛兰素史克通过CEPI，与昆士兰大学合作；赛诺菲则是与美国生物医学高级研究与开发局（BARDA）合作研发疫苗；3月19日，辉瑞才宣布跟德国公司BioNTech联合开发新冠病毒疫苗。
In February, GlaxoSmithKline worked with the University of Queensland through CEPI, while Sanofi partnered with BARDA to develop vaccines, and Pfizer announced on March 19 that it was working with the German company BioNTech to develop a vaccine for the new crown virus.
戈伦说，现在和未来会有各种各样的病毒威胁，人们一直需要疫苗。
'There are all kinds of viral threats now and in the future, and people always need a vaccine, 'Mr. Goren said.
“我们需要能够满足需求的、更灵活的技术，也需要扩大疫苗生产制造规模”。
"We need more flexible technologies that meet demand, and we need to scale up vaccine manufacturing," he said.
他也承认，担心新冠疫情结束时疫苗还未研发出来的窘境，因此，有必要基于更覆盖面更广、更灵活的技术，研究采用更全面的免疫方法，来避免这种不利的情况发生。
He also acknowledged that there was concern that vaccines had not been developed by the end of the new crown, so there was a need to look at more comprehensive immunization methods based on broader and more flexible technologies to avoid such adverse conditions.
Janssen公司的判断是，一个典型的疫苗开发过程往往历时5-7年。
Janssen concludes that a typical vaccine development process often takes five to seven years.
新冠疫情的长期影响仍然不确定，成为区域性疾病的可能性不应忽视。
The long-term effects of the new crown epidemic remain uncertain, and the possibility of becoming a regional disease should not be overlooked.
在这种情况下，全球对疫苗的需求仍将很高。
In this context, global demand for vaccines will remain high.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
研发新冠疫苗，全球96个团队谁能跑赢？。
Develop a new crown vaccine, 96 teams around the world who can run to win?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "研发新冠疫苗，全球96个团队谁能跑赢？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; R & amp; D & amp; G; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "除速度外，安全性、有效性，是这场疫苗研发竞赛的重要考量标准。
var msg _ desc = & quot; In addition to speed, safety and effectiveness were important criteria in the vaccine development competition.
如何权衡取舍，目前领跑的中美两支研发团队给出了不同的解决方案";。
How to weigh the trade-offs, the two leading U.S. and Chinese R & D teams have offered different solutions;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
