疫情阴影下的异乡湖北人：难回家乡、住不进酒店。
In the shadow of the epidemic situation, Hubei people: difficult to return home, do not live in hotels.
杨佼。
Yang Radiance Radiance.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
28.01.2020本文字数：3123，阅读时长大约6分钟导读：湖北人也是受害者。
People in Hubei province are also victims. People in Hubei province are also victims.
作者 | 第一财经杨佼“我有点后悔离开武汉了。
"I regret leaving Wuhan a little," said Yang Kai-sei, the financial leader.
自从回到乡下，武汉的新冠肺炎疫情很让人揪心，过年也变得寡然无味，大家都心神不宁的。
Since returning to the countryside, Wuhan is very worried about the new crown pneumonia, the New Year has become boring, everyone is uneasy.
早知如此，还不如就留在武汉过年。
It is better to stay in Wuhan for the Spring Festival.
“在农历新年，吕德文的心情却有些黯淡。
"On the Chinese New Year's Day, Ludwig's mood was sombre.
在武汉工作的吕德文，是武汉大学中国乡村治理研究中心研究员。
Mr. Lu, who works in Wuhan, is a researcher at Wuhan University's China Rural Governance Research Center.
武汉爆发的新型冠状病毒肺炎，让这个居住在武汉的异乡人、随妻子回乡过年的吕德文，遭受了一些异样的眼光。
Wuhan, the outbreak of a new coronavirus pneumonia, so that the resident in Wuhan, with his wife back home to spend the New Year, Luwen, suffered some strange eyes.
“这也是正常反应。
"It's a normal reaction.
以前如果得了传染病，邻居们的态度也是这样的，这也是一种乡村社会的自我保护。
In the past, if there was an infectious disease, the neighbors' attitude was the same. It was a form of self-protection by the rural society.
”对自己一家人的遭遇， 吕德文并无太多不满。
Ludwig did not complain much about what had happened to his family.
然而，对一些因疫情滞留异地的武汉人、湖北人来说，可能就很难做到这么淡定自若。
However, for some Wuhan and Hubei people who have been stranded by the epidemic, it may be difficult to be so calm.
随着疫情防控升级，一些武汉、湖北返乡人员的个人信息被大量泄漏，针对湖北人的歧视性言论也大量出现。
With the escalation of epidemic prevention and control, some personal information about Wuhan and Hubei returnees has been leaked, and discriminatory remarks against Hubei people have proliferated.
不仅一些地方的酒店、宾馆拒绝武汉人、湖北人入住，个别地方还对入境的湖北人员、车辆“一律劝返”。
Not only do some local hotels and guesthouses refuse to let Wuhan and Hubei people live there, but individual places also "persuade" all the people and vehicles entering Hubei.
回不去的家乡，住不进的酒店，成了疫情阴影笼罩下的武汉人、湖北人的真实遭际。
Unable to return home, live in the hotel, has become the shadow of the epidemic under the Wuhan, Hubei real suffering.
恐惧随疫情一起扩散从武汉到老家，平常两个小时的车程，在这个春节，刘先生硬生生的走了十六个小时。
Fear spread along with the epidemic from Wuhan to his hometown, usually two hours by car, in this Spring Festival, Mr. Liu abruptly walked 16 hours.
刘先生的老家在鄂东一个县级市，1月23日（腊月二十九）机场、火车站等出城通道暂时关闭后，一心要回老家过年的他，选择了从武汉驾车“逃回”老家。
Mr. Liu, whose hometown is located in a county-level city in eastern Hubei Province, chose to drive back to his hometown of Wuhan after the temporary closure of the airport and railway station on January 23 (Laayue 29).
由于高速公路封闭，从武汉出城开始，他就一路绕行国道，有些路段国道也已经封闭，就只能走县道，甚至乡村道路。
Since the closure of the highway, Wuhan from the beginning of the city, he all the way around the national road, some sections of the national road has also been closed, can only use county roads, even rural roads.
为了尽快回到家中，还要摸黑赶路。
In order to get home as soon as possible, but also black road.
等他回到家中，已经是大年三十了。
By the time he got home, it was about thirty.
“从武汉到我老家，只有一百多公里，平时两个小时左右就到了。
"From Wuhan to my hometown, there are only more than 100 kilometers, usually about two hours.
”刘先生说，虽然住在武汉，但他并没有任何症状，当时也不知道新冠肺炎潜伏期也会传染，就觉得农村人员流动少，要比武汉安全。
Although he lived in Wuhan, Mr. Liu said he did not have any symptoms and did not know that the incubation period of New Crown Pneumonia would be contagious.
没有料到的是，回到老家不久，当地就有村民被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Unexpectedly, soon after returning to their hometown, the villagers were diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
“我按要求去登记了，大家知道我是从武汉回来的，虽然没出门，但听说大家都在怪我。
"I went to register as required, you know I came back from Wuhan, although I did not go out, but I heard that everyone blame me.
”刘先生说。
"said Mr. Liu.
随着新冠肺炎疫情的迅速传播，已经出现了湖北省内其他城市人害怕武汉返乡的人、而其他地区又害怕湖北人的情况。
With the rapid spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, people in other cities in Hubei Province are afraid of returning to Wuhan, while others fear the situation of Hubei people.
吕德文在一篇文章中写道，1月20号（腊月二十六）晚上，他和妻子乘坐火车，回妻子老家过年。
On the evening of January 20, he and his wife took a train back to their wife's hometown for the Chinese New Year, Lu said in an article.
在火车上，吕德文还和妻子谈论疫情，觉得算是正常，只要没有人传人，问题就不大。
On the train, Ludwig talked to his wife about the outbreak, which seemed normal, and as long as there was no one to pass on the disease, the problem was minor.
但回乡后第二天，新冠肺炎人传人的消息得到确认，不仅武汉的形势紧张起来，全国各地的防疫措施也渐次展开。
But the day after returning home, the new crown pneumonia person-to-person news was confirmed, not only the situation in Wuhan tense, epidemic prevention measures throughout the country also gradually launched.
大年初一，当地市政府通报本地出现了3例患者后，吕德文一家感受到的氛围，就有些微妙起来。
On New Year's Day, the local city government reported that the local emergence of three patients, the Lu German family feel the atmosphere, a little more subtle.
“岳父母住在街上，街坊邻居都是熟人。
"My parents-in-law live on the street and the neighbors know each other.
下午，岳父母因有事上街，结果旁人看到他们都低着头，躲得远远的。
In the afternoon, his parents-in-law went out on business, so others saw them all bow their heads and hide far away.
”文章写道，第二天早饭后不久，吕德文的岳母就接到熟人电话，问他们一家是不是到医院检查了？村里有了针对他们一家的谣言。
Shortly after breakfast the next day, Lu's mother-in-law received a telephone call from an acquaintance asking if the family had been taken to the hospital for an examination, and rumours were circulating in the village against the family.
27日，第一财经向吕德文确认了这篇文章的真实性。
On the 27th, First Finance confirmed the authenticity of the article to Lu Devon.
“我们一家在乡亲们的眼中，怕是和瘟神差不多了。
Our family, in the eyes of the townsfolk, were probably as much of a plague as the plague.
”在这篇文章中，吕德文说。
"In this article, Lu said.
“这是乡村社会的内在保护机制在起作用，换作我们可能也是这样的，过几天情况好了，大家的关系又好了。
"It's the inner protective mechanism of rural society at work, as we might be, and in a few days' time things are fine and things are going well again.
”对自己的经历，吕德文表示理解，“这都是正常反应。
"This is a normal reaction," he said, understanding his own experience.
”26日晚，武汉市长周先旺在湖北省召开的疫情防控例行新闻发布会上表示，受春节和疫情因素影响，大概有500万人离开了武汉。
"About five million people left Wuhan during the Spring Festival and the outbreak, according to a regular news conference on the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei province on the night of May 26.
第一财经26日报道， 1月1日至26日间，武汉人员迁出目的地的前十均为湖北省内城市。
Between January 1 and 26, the top 10 cities in Hubei Province were the top 10 places for Wuhan people to leave their destinations, Caijing said.
虽然可能多少有些不愉快，吕德文一家返乡后，大体还算平静。
Though perhaps somewhat unhappy, the Ludwig family, when they returned home, were largely at peace.
然而，随着疫情扩大，一些泄露、传播武汉、湖北返乡人员个人信息，包括姓名、家庭住址、电话、身份证号、返回车次甚至高考成绩等信息，至社交媒体大肆传播，歧视当地人员的声音也开始大量出现。
However, as the epidemic has spread, so have some messages that reveal and spread personal information about Wuhan and Hubei returnees, including names, family addresses, telephone numbers, personal identification numbers, number of return trips and even college entrance examination results, to the spread of social media and the emergence of a large number of voices that discriminate against local people.
随着疫情的持续升温，全国各地纷纷提高防疫级别，各省市陆续启动一级应急响应的同时，社区、村落也开始通过各种措施阻击疫情的扩散。
As the epidemic continues to rise, epidemic prevention levels have been raised all over the country. While provinces and municipalities have been launching first-level emergency response, communities and villages have begun to stop the spread of the epidemic through various measures.
一些地方为了防止疫情输入，对湖北籍的人员、车辆采取了无差别的“一律劝返”措施。
In order to prevent the importation of epidemic diseases, some places have adopted the non-discriminatory "all-back" measures to the personnel and vehicles of Hubei nationality.
根据当地媒体报道，与湖北毗邻的湖南岳阳市发布命令，从1 月 24 日 14 时起，所有进入岳阳地区的湖北籍车辆和人员都进行劝返，一律不得进入岳阳地区。
The city of Yueyang in Hunan Province, which borders Hubei Province, issued an order banning all vehicles and personnel of Hubei nationality from entering Yueyang from 1400 hours on January 24, local media reported.
与武汉相距约200公里的河南省信阳市，也在重点路段设卡，对湖北进入信阳的车辆和人员一律劝返。
Wuhan is about 200 kilometers away from Henan Province, Henan Province, also set up roadblocks in key sections, Hubei into Xinyang vehicles and personnel are advised back.
而与湖北、武汉相隔千里的山东省，也跟进采取了类似做法。
And Hubei, Wuhan separated by thousands of miles of Shandong Province, also followed up to take a similar approach.
根据当地媒体报道，为严防疫情输入，从1月27日0时起，对所有来自湖北的车辆一律劝返，对不听劝返的一律采取留观措施。
According to local media reports, from 0000 hours on January 27, all vehicles from Hubei Province will be advised to return, and those who will not follow the advice will be encouraged to take precautionary measures.
住不进的酒店虽然免不了乡邻的抱怨，但回到老家的湖北人，处境比一些仍身在外地的湖北人还是要好得多。
Inaccessible hotels, while inevitably complaining from their neighbors, are in a much better position to return to their native Hubei than some of the Hubei people who are still in other places.
武汉土生土长的刘小姐，21日从武汉出发去新加坡旅游，回国时由于疫情爆发，无法直接飞回武汉，计划改飞郑州，航班也被取消了，次日改飞福州，还是遇到了同样的问题，最后只能改飞广州。
Wuhan-born Miss Liu, who traveled to Singapore from Wuhan on the 21st, could not fly directly back to Wuhan due to the outbreak of the outbreak of the disease, planned to fly back to Zhengzhou, the flight was cancelled, the next day to Fuzhou, or encountered the same problems, can only fly to Guangzhou.
而启程前在广州预定的酒店，因为她是武汉户口拒绝其入住。
Before leaving the hotel reservation in Guangzhou, because she is Wuhan Hukou refused to stay.
“她们怕万一得病，新加坡医药费那么贵，还是早点回国好。
"They are afraid that Singapore will have to return home early because of the high cost of medicines in the event of illness.
但武汉回不去，改飞的航班又取消了，才临时决定坐半夜的航班飞到广州自我隔离一段时间。
Wuhan, however, can not go back, the flight was cancelled, just decided to take a midnight flight to Guangzhou to self-isolation for a period of time.
”刘小姐的同学说，回国当天，刘女士在网上订了一家民宿，但到达广州后，得知其是武汉人后，对方拒绝她们入住。
"Miss Liu's classmates said that on the day of their return, Ms. Liu booked a residential house on the Internet, but when she arrived in Guangzhou, she learned that she was from Wuhan.
在朋友的帮助下，才找到一家愿意接收的酒店。
With the help of a friend, I found a hotel that I would like to accept.
“现在武汉人太惨了，到处被diss（被鄙视）,我们只求有个地方让我们隔离一段时间。
"Wuhan people are so miserable now, being despised everywhere, we just want a place to keep us apart for a while.
”刘小姐说。
"said Miss Liu.
有同样遭遇的，并非个例。
The same is not the case.
一些酒店拒绝入住的对象，甚至已经从武汉人扩大到了湖北人。
Some hotels refused to accept the object, has even expanded from Wuhan to Hubei people.
湖北人陈女士在国内某城市旅游的父母，在酒店入住时，也遇到了这样的困扰。
Ms. Chen, a native of Hubei province, who is a tourist parent in a city in China, also encountered such problems when staying in a hotel.
陈女士说，疫情还没有大面积传播时，她父母就去了国内一个海滨城市旅游。
Chen said her parents traveled to a coastal city in the country before the epidemic spread widely.
后来得知武汉“封城”后，决定暂时在当地酒店住一段时间，待疫情好转后再回武汉。
Later learned that Wuhan "closed the city", decided to temporarily stay in the local hotel for a period of time, when the epidemic situation improved before returning to Wuhan.
但到了26日，酒店开始不让住宿。
But on the 26th, the hotel began not to allow accommodation.
“只要是湖北的就不让住。
'Not as long as it's Hubei.
”陈女士说。
"said Mrs. Chen.
酒店最初要求医院开证明才能继续住，两个老人赶忙跑到医院，由于排队的人太多，证明没有开到。
The hotel initially asked the hospital to issue a certificate to continue living, the two old people rushed to the hospital, due to too many people, proved not to open.
回到酒店后，对方说有证明也没用，“就是不让湖北人住”。
Back at the hotel, the other side said it was useless to prove it, "just do not let Hubei live."
根据媒体公开报道，云南省文化和旅游厅26日在一份通知中承认，近日收到多起“湖北籍游客因疫情管控无法返乡，滞留时入住宾馆饭店被婉拒的情况”。
"Hubei tourists who are unable to return home due to the outbreak of epidemic control have been refused permission to stay in hotels and restaurants," Yunnan's Ministry of Culture and Tourism acknowledged in a notice yesterday.
针对这种情况，27日凌晨，武汉市文化和旅游局公开发布请求信，请求对武汉旅游团队回国返汉给予支持和帮助，让出境的武汉旅游团队平安回国返汉；请求兄弟城市文旅部门给予协调和排忧解难，对所有在外旅行的武汉市民给予必要的帮助。
In the early morning hours of July 27, Wuhan Municipal Culture and Tourism Bureau issued a letter of request for support and assistance to Wuhan tourism team returning to China, so that the outbound Wuhan tourism team could return safely to China.
湖北人也是受害者“酒店不让住，家也不能回，流落他乡的湖北人，怎么办？”对于父母的遭遇，陈女士感到担忧。
Hubei people are also victims "the hotel is not allowed to live, home can not go back, displaced Hubei people, how to do?"
在一些社交媒体上，一些湖北、武汉籍人士说，在这场疫情中湖北人也是受害者，希望不要对湖北人进行地域歧视。
On some social media, some people of Hubei and Wuhan nationality said Hubei people were also victims of the epidemic, hoping not to discriminate against Hubei people.
吕德文说，警惕性强对疫情防控是好事，但也不能一律劝返、拒绝入住，而是要妥善安置、科学管理，比如制定留置、观察的场所。
Lu said vigilance is good for disease prevention and control, but should not always persuade, refuse to live, but to properly place, scientific management, such as the establishment of detention, observation sites.
实际上，面对当前的疫情，早在25日召开的中共中央政治局会议上，就明确表示对进出武汉人员实行严格管控，坚决防止疫情扩散的同时，也对湖北民众报以深切的关怀，并对湖北各族干部群众致以亲切的问候。
In fact, in the face of the current epidemic, as early as the meeting of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China (CPC) on the 25th, China made it clear that while exercising strict control over the entry and exit of Wuhan people and resolutely preventing the spread of the epidemic, they also showed deep concern to the people of Hubei ethnic groups and extended cordial greetings.
一些城市也因对出游回国、流落当地的武汉、湖北人人性化的安置，而受到广泛赞誉。
Some cities are also widely praised for their humane resettlement in places such as Wuhan and Hubei, where they returned home.
根据浙江媒体报道，24日10时许，从新加坡到达杭州萧山机场的TR188次航班上，335名乘客中有武汉客人116名。
According to Zhejiang media reports, Wuhan guests were among the 335 passengers on Flight TR188, which arrived at Xiaoshan Airport in Hangzhou from Singapore at about 10: 00 a.m. on the 24th.
由于事先掌握信息，飞机着陆后，2名发烧人员即送至萧山区第一人民医院，其余武汉乘客在机场宾馆就地隔离，219名其他乘客在市委党校集中医学观察。
As a result of prior information, the plane landed, two fever personnel were sent to Xiaoshan District First People's Hospital, the remaining Wuhan passengers at the airport hotel in situ isolation, 219 other passengers in the city party schools concentrated on medical observation.
云南也在迅速跟进。
Yunnan is also rapidly following suit.
上述通知称，为帮助疫区滞留游客解决住宿问题，要求云南省各州市文旅局接到通知后，立即向州、市政府和联防联控工作小组报告，在26日下午18:00前，确定一家宾馆饭店统一提供给疫区滞留在当地的游客集中住宿，原则上每个州市确定一家，视疫情防控情况增减。
The notice said that in order to help stranded tourists in the affected areas to solve the problem of accommodation, the Yunnan Provincial Municipal Culture and Tourism Bureau immediately after receiving notification to state and municipal governments and the joint control team, by 18: 00 pm on the 26th, confirmed that a hotel and hotel for stranded tourists in the epidemic area, in principle one for each state or city, depending on the epidemic situation.
此外，26日晚，桂林官方发布消息，来桂林六城区和灵川的湖北籍游客，需要住宿的，26日8点后，可以入住香江大饭店，目前只接受湖北籍游客入住。
In addition, the night of the 26th, Guilin officials announced that visitors to the six-city Guilin and Lingchuan Hubei, who need accommodation, after 8 o'clock on the 26th, can stay at Xiangjiang Hotel.
后续还将增加定点宾馆。
This will be followed by additional guest houses.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情阴影下的异乡湖北人：难回家乡、住不进酒店。
In the shadow of the epidemic situation, Hubei people: difficult to return home, do not live in hotels.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情阴影下的异乡湖北人：难回家乡、住不进酒店";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; a stranger in the shadow of the epidemic: Hard to return to and not at & quot; & quot;;
var msg_desc = "湖北人也是受害者。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Hubei people were also victims.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
