广州十三行，批发市场怎么活下去。
Guangzhou 13 line, Wholesale market how to live.
吴容。
Wu Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：吴容编辑：牙韩翔“ 因为疫情，中国最大的服装批发市场之一广州十三行生意惨淡。
"Because of the epidemic, business in Guangzhou, one of the largest wholesale clothing markets in China, is bleak.
但在疫情之外，它的模式也正在受到冲击。
But beyond the epidemic, its model is being shaken.
”等了一个月，伍鹏飞终于回到了自己在广州十三行的服装档口。
"After waiting for a month, Wu Peng-fei finally returned to his dress stall in Guangzhou for the thirteenth line.
广州作为中国最大的服装批发地，以往包括十三行、沙河、白马、红棉等批发商圈在元宵左右开工。
Guangzhou, the largest wholesale clothing area in China, used to include 13 lines, Shahe, white horse, red cotton wholesale circle around the Lunar New Year.
而受到疫情影响，今年复市时间一再延迟，直到3月5日才先后迎客。
Affected by the epidemic, the resumption of the market this year has been repeatedly delayed, until March 5, the first guests.
十三行虽是其中较早复市的一个，伍鹏飞觉得还是迟了。
Although the thirteenth line is one of the early resumption of the market, Wu Peng-fei still felt late.
过年后的2-4月是服装批发的交易旺季，延迟开工和人流量大减，使得春季销售机会少了三分之一。
February-April after the Lunar New Year is the peak season for wholesale clothing sales, with delayed start-ups and a sharp drop in traffic, cutting sales by a third in the spring.
伍鹏飞年前几十万的女装备货可能变成卖不动的“压箱货”，收不回货款又意味着无法进新货，夏季销售如何开展也成问题。
Wu Peng-fei hundreds of thousands of women's equipment goods may become unsaleable "pressurized goods," the non-payment means that no new goods can enter, summer sales how to carry out the problem.
十三行规模最大的商城新中国大厦复市，进场需进行体温检测。
Thirteen lines of the largest shopping mall, the New China Building, re-open, enter the scene for temperature testing.
图片来源：吴容如此连锁反应，伍鹏飞不敢继续往下细想。
Photo source: Wu Rong so chain reaction, Wu Peng-fei dare not continue to think about it.
眼下，他和大多数商户只想争取减租或免租，而这也成为了开市后遇到最为头疼的事。
At the moment, he and most businesses just want to fight rent reduction or rent-free, and this has become the most difficult thing after the opening of the market.
十三行商圈位于广州荔湾区，短短400米左右的十三行路两旁，以新中国大厦、诚大时装广场和红遍天大厦为龙头，遍布了大小几十家商城，商户超过6000家。
Located in Lai Wan District, Guangzhou, along the 13th line of about 400 meters, 13 new China Tower, Chengda Fashion Square and Hongtoutian Mansion are the leading shops in dozens of large and small commercial cities, with more than 6,000 merchants.
新中国大厦一楼。
New China Building, 1st Floor.
图片来源：吴容其中，新中国大厦最为出名、规模最大，相应的租金也最高。
Photo source: Wu Rong, the most famous new China building, the largest scale, the corresponding rent is also the highest.
伍鹏飞的档口位于新中国大厦，他透露，按照面积大小的不同，月租一般从6万到30万元不等。
Wu Peng-fei, whose stalls are located in the New China Building, revealed that the monthly rent varies from 60,000 to 300,000 yuan depending on the size of the building.
开工之初，新中国大厦并非没有宣布部分减租、免租政策，但伍鹏飞觉得，政策总体而言比较有限，不同楼层有不同标准。
At the beginning of the construction work, the New China Building did not announce the partial rent reduction and rent-free policy, but Wu Peng-fei felt that the policy was generally limited and that different floors had different standards.
不过，政策针对的是档主，作为个体商户很大程度无法享受。
However, the policy is aimed at the owners, as individual merchants are largely unable to enjoy.
3月4日，新中国大厦微信公号推送租金减免通知。
March 4, the New China Building Weixin Office sent rent relief notice.
所谓档主，指的是承租户。
The so-called owner refers to the tenant.
钟冬英在十三行一家商铺咨询中心工作，根据她的介绍，新中国大厦大部分楼层按照五年合同出租给承租户，由于一手承租户租赁时间比较长，往往对外出租谋利，也就产生了二手房东。
According to Zhong Dong-ying, who works in a 13-line shop advisory center, most of the floors of the New China Building are rented out to tenants under five-year contracts.
他们会进行改造，并划分成密密麻麻的档口租给商户们。
They will be transformed and divided into a dense network of stalls to rent to merchants.
“有些档口其实就是格子店，两块砖的大小，不到1平方米，每月租金最少要价6万。
"Some of the stalls are actually lattice shops, the size of two bricks, less than 1 square meter, a minimum monthly rental price of 60,000.
交租方式各有不同，比较轻松的是押二付一、押三付一，也听说过按半年、一年交的。
The method of paying rent is different, is relatively easy to pay two, three pay one, also heard of the semi-annual, one-year delivery.
”伍鹏飞说。
"said Wu Peng-fei.
新中国大厦内部的“格子店”。
New China building inside the "grid shop."
图片来源：吴容减租、免租政策无法享受，和房东多次商量无果后，伍鹏飞向熟悉的几家商户打听，反馈也基本和他类似，“有的说晚点看看其它房东怎么处理，有的说找商场管理处咨询，有的很久不回复微信，打电话也不接。
Wu Rong reduced rent, rent-free policy can not enjoy, and the landlord repeatedly discussed without success, Wu Peng-fei to familiar with a few merchants, the feedback is basically similar to his, "some said to see how other landlords deal with, some said to consult the mall management office, some long-term did not reply to letters, call not to answer.
”焦虑的商户们开始拉微信群讨论维权对策，纷纷提出“2月免租、3月4月租金减半”的诉求。
Anxious businesspeople are starting to draw on the microphone community to discuss measures to protect their rights, vying for rent-free February and half-rent for March.
直到3月8日，新中国大厦微信公众号向全体商户推送了以”疫情当前，守法奉行”的公告，并表示会协助商户回到正常经营轨道上。
Until March 8, the new China Building Weixin public to all merchants with the "current epidemic, abide by the law" announcement, and said that will help businesses to return to normal business track.
对于存在二手转租商户的情况，3月17日，新中国大厦再次出台了相应政策，称将优惠方案落实到终端商户上。
For the existence of second-hand sub-tenants, March 17, the new China Building issued a corresponding policy, said the preferential scheme to end-merchants.
3月17日，新中国大厦再次出台政策，称将优惠方案落实到终端商户上。
On March 17, the new China Building re-launched the policy, said the preferential scheme to the end-user business.
截止目前，伍鹏飞了解到，有的商户已拿到了部分租金退款，有的依旧协商无果。
So far, Wu Peng-fei has learned that some merchants have received partial rent refunds, and some still negotiate without success.
“因为，不仅有二手房东，部分楼层可能有三手房东，通过层层倒手赚差价，这个环节中只要任意一个房东不减租，商户都无法指望拿到退款。
"Because, there is not only a second-hand owner, some floors may have three landlords, through layers of income difference, this link as long as any landlord does not reduce the rent, merchants can not expect to get a refund.
”事实上，除了租金高企外，传统服装批发市场逐渐开始式微。
In fact, in addition to high rents, traditional wholesale clothing markets are beginning to weaken.
不止十三行，广州沙河、白马、红棉，以及武汉汉正街等批发市场的生意早已不如从前。
More than 13 line, Guangzhou Shahe, white horse, red cotton, and Wuhan Hanzheng Street wholesale market business has long been less than before.
上世纪90年代，服装批发兴起。
The 1990s saw the rise of wholesale clothing.
这个行业最初以地摊、大棚经营为代表，慢慢地，商户们进入商城，统一管理之下也逐步正规化，千禧年后迎来繁荣发展。
The industry was initially represented by the stalls and greenhouses. Gradually, merchants entered the mall and gradually formalized themselves under the unified management, ushering in prosperity after the millennium.
十三行商圈在鼎盛时期，人流量可达到数十万人，每天进出货物数千吨，通过物流发到全国各地市场。
Thirteen lines of commerce, at their peak, can reach hundreds of thousands of people, moving thousands of tons of goods per day into and out of markets across the country through logistics.
服装业流传着这样的说法，“中国80%服装来自广东，广东服装80%来自广州，广州服装80%来自十三行”。
The garment industry has spread the saying that 80 percent of China's clothing comes from Guangdong, 80 percent of Guangdong clothing comes from Guangzhou and 80 percent of Guangzhou clothing comes from 13 lines.
新中国大厦旁边的诚大时装广场。
Shengda Fashion Square next to the New China Building.
图片来源：吴容伍鹏飞明显感觉到批发市场走下坡路是在2014年年底。
Photograph: Wu Junwu Peng Fei obviously felt that the wholesale market went downhill at the end of 2014.
电商经过10年来发展，在那时迅猛爆发，大家开始网购衣服。
After 10 years of electric business development, at that time the explosion, everyone began to buy clothes online.
最直接影响是线下服装店。
The most immediate impact is the offline clothing store.
“而下游货不好卖，最终影响的是我们上游批发市场。
"And downstream goods are not easy to sell, the ultimate impact is our upstream wholesale market.
”按照伍鹏飞说法，电商至少分流了十三行超过三分之一的客流。
According to Wu Peng-fei, electric operators split at least 13 lines of passenger traffic.
与此同时，互联网的冲击，使得批发市场交易价格变得公开透明，让批发商们失去了盈利空间。
At the same time, the impact of the Internet, wholesale market transaction prices become open and transparent, so that wholesalers lost profit space.
这些下游批发商的商业模式主要是“炒货”。
These downstream wholesalers' business model is mainly "speculation."
包括十三行在内的批发市场，部分商户通常没有工厂资源，他们通过“炒货”，从一个更低价的批发商手中买货，再倒卖给下家批发商。
At wholesale markets, which include 13 lines, some merchants usually do not have factory resources and buy from a cheaper wholesaler and resell to the next wholesaler through "frying."
但电商打击了这种赚钱方式。
But electricity merchants are cracking down on this way of making money.
过去淘宝店主会从批发市场进货，现在他们纷纷跨过批发商，和工厂直接对接下单，导致十三行商户利润又被压缩。
Taobao shopkeepers used to buy goods from wholesale markets, but now they cross wholesalers and place orders directly with factories, squeezing 13 lines of merchants' profits.
十三行路旁物流点。
Thirteen roadside logistics points.
图片来源：吴容同时，传统批发市场自身模式特点，放在现在也使得其发展变得举步维艰。
Source: Wu Rong at the same time, the traditional wholesale market itself model features, put in place now also makes its development difficult.
从事服装买手工作的黄小琴表示，批发市场早年选址一般在城市核心地段或者靠近交通枢纽。
Huang Xiaoqin, who works as a garment buyer, said the wholesale market was generally located in the early years of the urban core or near the transport hub.
比如，十三行所处的荔湾区是广州的老城区，也是曾经的核心商圈。
For example, the 13-line Lai Wan District is the old city of Guangzhou, is also once the core business circle.
而白马、天马、流花服装广场等靠近广州火车站、汽车总站。
And white horse, Tianma, flow flower clothing square and so on near Guangzhou railway station, bus terminus.
这些年来地价普遍上涨，核心地带租金更是涨得厉害，黄小琴形容为“卖衫不如炒铺”。
Land prices have generally risen over the years, the core of the rent is even higher, yellow Qin described as "selling shirts rather than fried shop."
而同质化问题也颇为严重。
And homogenization is a serious problem.
黄小琴熟悉的十三行和沙河市场，两者服装定位中低端，款式同质化更为明显，互相仿版、设计原创氛围很差。
Huang Xiaoqin familiar with the thirteenth line and the Shahe market, the two clothing positioning at the lower end, style homogenization more obvious, imitation of each other, design original atmosphere is poor.
比如一款一字肩女上衣成为爆款后，厂家和商家一窝蜂跟进。
For example, after a word-for-shoulder blouse became a bomb, manufacturers and businesses rushed to follow suit.
商家们只能不停降价竞争、打价格战，等到这件爆款利润价值被压榨得差不多之后，又转向新的爆款，就逐渐变成了恶性循环。
Businesses will have to keep cutting prices, fighting price wars, until the value of the explosion was squeezed almost, then turned to new explosion, gradually become a vicious circle.
十三行服装通过物流发往全国各地。
Thirteen lines of clothing are distributed throughout the country through logistics.
图片来源：吴容面对困境，商户们并非没有考虑过转型，最直接的路径是“触电”，但并不容易。
Photo source: Wu Rong facing difficulties, merchants have not considered the transition, the most direct path is "shock," but not easy.
“做电商找死，不做电商等死”成为了他们常挂在嘴边的话。
"Do electric business seek death, do not do electric business to wait for death" became they often hang in the mouth words.
伍鹏飞观察，十三行商户现状有几种：一部分商户尽管生意不如从前，但由于未被逼到绝境，所以仍是侥幸得过；一部分尝试起“一件代发”业务，过往在十三行拿货都要5-10件起批；另一部分商户在转型上心有余力不足。
Wu Peng-fei observed that there were several kinds of merchants: some merchants were lucky because they were not driven to desperation although their business was not as good as before; some tried "a contract" business, which used to take 5-10 pieces of goods in 13 lines; others had little spare capacity for transformation.
如果商户依赖抖音等直播卖货，要把直播号做成企业号运营，事实上成本并不小。
If merchants rely on live sales, such as dithering, to make a live number to run the enterprise, in fact, the cost is not small.
首先要向平台交纳一部分费用，直播时加产品链接、吸粉、刷流量、刷广告等，通通也要花钱，平台也会根据销售额抽成。
First of all to pay a part of the platform, live broadcast plus product links, suction, brush flow, brush advertising, and so on, all of the money, the platform will also be based on sales.
“一般来讲，没有前期两到三年的铺垫和投入，直播很难做起来，一些商户没坚持下去，中途就放弃了。
"Generally speaking, without two to three years of upholstery and investment, the live broadcast is difficult to do, some merchants did not adhere to the midway, gave up.
”伍鹏飞说。
"said Wu Peng-fei.
商户们正在打包发货。
The merchants are packing up for shipment.
图片来源：吴容而相比杭州四季青批发市场的转型，十三行还是没有把握住直播红利。
Source: Wu Rong and compared with the transformation of the Hangzhou Sijiqing Wholesale Market, 13 lines still do not grasp the direct dividend.
“如果说网红孵化带货，十三行很明显打不过杭州那边。
"If the net red hatch with goods, 13 lines is clearly unable to hit Hangzhou side.
”黄小琴对界面新闻说，“杭州网红经济在2017年左右已成规模，你会发现很多大家叫得出名字的网红都来自江浙沪一带，如果不想简单地跟热点，而是造热点，是需要依赖网红，即便不是头部网红，也要是腰部的。
"When the red economy becomes big around 2017, you will see that many of the net-red names come from Zhejiang and Shanghai," Huang told the Interface News.
”“而且在网批市场的打造，广州这边并不多。
"And in the creation of the online market, Guangzhou side is not much.
”据黄小琴的了解，在杭州，四季青以原有市场为基础，打造了一系列线下网批市场如四季星座、四季青电商基地、九堡新四季青市场等。
According to Huang's understanding, in Hangzhou, Sijiqing based on the original market has built a series of offline network batch markets such as the Four Seasons, the Sijiqing Electric Commercial Base and the Jiubao New Quadripartite Green Market.
在当地政策、网红孵化和直播带动下，四季青线下批发业务与线上批发的比重已变成4：6，2015年该比例为6：4。
Led by local policies, netting and live broadcasting, the ratio of wholesale business to online wholesale has become 4: 6, compared to 6: 4 in 2015.
十三行网批市场打造不及杭州四季青。
Thirteen lines of the online market less than Hangzhou Sijiqing.
图片来源：吴容遭遇疫情影响，四季青同样推迟了开市时间，3月10日一开市，更多主播和档口店员参与到直播行列之中，通过线上渠道消化春装库存。
Photo: Wu Rong encountered the impact of the epidemic, Sijiqing also delayed the opening of the market on March 10, more anchormen and archivists participated in the live broadcast, through online channels digestion of spring inventory.
四季青商户林煜盛接受媒体采访时表示，“上周六，淘宝直播专门开了个四季青档口主播专场，听说当天至少有五十名新主播加入。
In an interview with the media, Taubao TV broadcast a special broadcast on Saturday featuring at least 50 new anchormen.
”作为源头产地复苏计划之一，广州十三行商会也将联合阿里1688平台在3月28日推出“十三行直播专场”，宣称平台上线零门槛，让商家不用开网店，就可以把展厅搬到线上。
The Guangzhou Thirteenth Chamber of Commerce, part of the Origin Recovery Program, will launch a "13-line broadcast" on March 28 with the Ali 1688 platform, declaring that the platform will be "zero threshold," allowing businesses to move their showrooms online without having to open an online store.
据阿里巴巴的数据，2月以来，阿里1688平台的“商+直播”入驻的商家同期增长了87%。
Since February, businesses hosting Ali 1688 platforms have grown 87 percent, according to Alibaba.
不过目前这些都仍然只是尝试阶段，对于伍鹏飞这样的个体商户而言，他们最希望看到的还是生意恢复如初，然后再思考着转型的方向。
So far, however, these are still tentative steps, and for individual traders like Wu Peng-fei, what they would like to see is a return to business as usual before they think about the direction of the transition.
在清朝，广州作为唯一通商口岸，十三行以“洋货行”享誉海外，吸引世界各地的人来此经商。
In the Qing Dynasty, Guangzhou as the only port of commerce, 13 lines of "foreign goods line" known overseas, attracting people from all over the world.
百年后，十三行又成为了中国服装批发市场中重要的一部分，但发展至今陷入迷茫，十三行未来走向如何成为大家关心的问题。
After a hundred years, the thirteenth line has become an important part of China's clothing wholesale market, but the development has been in confusion so far, 13 lines in the future how to become everyone's concern.
“会像北京动批那样搬迁去周边城市，还是会进行改造升级拿到互联网船票？这都是未知数。
"Will it move to the surrounding cities as Beijing approved, or will it be revamped and upgraded to get internet tickets?" It's not clear.
”伍鹏飞还在怀念着，那个数十万操着不同口音的批发商在此穿梭流动、属于十三行的黄金年代。
Wu Peng-fei still remembered the golden age when hundreds of thousands of wholesalers with different accents traveled through the region.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
广州十三行，批发市场怎么活下去。
Guangzhou 13 line, Wholesale market how to live.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "广州十三行，批发市场怎么活下去";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "因为疫情，中国最大的服装批发市场之一广州十三行生意惨淡。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
但在疫情之外，它的模式也正在受到冲击。
But beyond the epidemic, its model is being shaken.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
