欧洲多国再推防疫新规，“逛超市不囤货”的默克尔被德国群众发上网。
In Europe, where many countries pushed new rules, Merkel, who "does not hoard goods in supermarkets," was given Internet access by the German public.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：安晶“ 刚公布新规禁止两人以上公共聚会后数小时，德国总理默克尔就宣布进入自我隔离。
Interviewer: German Chancellor Angela Merkel declared herself isolated just hours after new rules banned public gatherings of more than two people.
现年65岁的她将继续在家办公。
The 65-year-old will continue to work from home.
”刚公布新规禁止两人以上公共聚会后数小时，德国总理默克尔就宣布进入自我隔离。
German Chancellor Angela Merkel declared herself isolated just hours after new rules banned more than two public gatherings.
此前，默克尔的医生被确诊感染新冠肺炎。
Earlier, Merkel's doctor had been diagnosed with pneumonia.
隔离期间，现年65岁的默克尔将继续在家办公。
Ms Merkel, 65, will continue to work from home during the quarantine.
在德国宣布防疫新规当天，意大利、西班牙、法国、希腊、英国均宣布新要求以减缓新冠疫情蔓延。
Italy, Spain, France, Greece and Britain all announced new requirements to slow the spread of the new crown on the day the new rules were announced.
据《纽约时报》和路透社3月22日报道，默克尔办公室于周日发表声明，宣布默克尔将立刻开始居家隔离。
Merkel's office announced in a statement Sunday that she would immediately start segregation in her home, according to the New York Times and Reuters.
周五下午，默克尔接受了肺炎球菌疫苗注射，而给默克尔注射疫苗的医生后在新冠病毒检测中呈阳性。
On Friday afternoon, Merkel received a pneumococcal injection, and her injector tested positive for the virus.
未来几天，默克尔将定期接受病毒检测。
Merkel will be tested regularly for the virus in the next few days.
去年，默克尔在公共场合多次突发颤抖。
Last year, Merkel trembled several times in public.
虽然她本人解释为脱水反应，外界依然对其身体状况表示了担忧，默克尔没有重大疾病史。
Despite her own explanation for her dehydration, worries remain about her health, and Merkel has no history of major illness.
就在默克尔隔离前，有民众周六在超市偶遇默克尔。
Just before Ms Merkel's separation, people ran into her at the supermarket on Saturday.
在拍摄的照片中，默克尔的购物车里有酒、食品和一提厕纸。
In the photos, Merkel's shopping cart was filled with wine, food and toilet paper.
网友还将其称为“不囤货”的典范。
Netizens also called it a model of "hoarding".
图片来源：Twitter周日早些时候，默克尔举行新闻发布会，宣布在全国禁止两人以上的公共聚会，家庭和工作所需除外。
Source: Earlier Sunday, Merkel held a press conference announcing a nationwide ban on more than two public gatherings, except for family and work needs.
此前，在保证顾客之间安全距离的情况下，餐馆依然可以接待顾客就餐。
Previously, restaurants could still serve customers with a safe distance between them.
但新规要求餐馆不再接待堂食，只能提供外卖。
But the new rules require restaurants to no longer serve parlours, only take-out.
包括理发店、按摩店、刺青店在内的商业场所则必须停业。
Business premises, including hairdressers, massage parlours and tattoos, have to be shut down.
民众依然可以外出工作、锻炼、购物、看病，但必须与他人保持1.5米的距离。
People can still go out to work, exercise, shop and see a doctor, but they have to stay 1.5 metres away from others.
周日，默克尔与16个联邦州州长就防疫措施举行电话会议。
On Sunday, Ms. Merkel held a conference call with 16 state governors on quarantine measures.
鉴于部分民众依然无视保持社交距离的要求、继续聚会，各州一致同意加强限制性措施。
As part of the population continued to ignore the need to maintain social distance and continue to meet, the cantons agreed to strengthen restrictive measures.
默克尔强调，新措施不是“建议”，“是为了我们的集体利益必须遵守的规定”；违反规定者将面临处罚。
Ms Merkel stressed that the new measures were not "recommendations" but "rules that must be complied with in our collective interest"; violators would face penalties.
巴伐利亚州和萨尔州则采取了更严格的“居家令”，要求民众尽量留在家中。
Bavaria and Saarland have adopted stricter "home orders," which require people to stay at home as much as possible.
虽然开始居家隔离，默克尔将继续远程办公。
Merkel will continue telecommuting even as she begins to segregate her home.
周一，内阁将通过一项1560亿欧元的补充性预算。
On Monday, the cabinet will approve a supplementary budget of 156 billion euros.
受疫情影响，德国今年的税收预计将骤减335亿欧元。
Germany's tax revenue is expected to plummet this year by €33.5 billion, affected by the epidemic.
联邦议会将于本周晚些时候就补充性预算进行投票。
The federal parliament will vote on a supplementary budget later this week.
德国政府还计划设立5000亿欧元的救助资金，以帮助受疫情影响的企业。
The German government also plans to set up a 500bn bailout fund to help businesses affected by the epidemic.
德国财长舒尔茨同时提议暂停宪法中规定的“债务制动”条款。
German Finance Minister Luftwaffe Schulz also proposed suspending the "debt brake" clause in the constitution.
2008年金融危机之后，德国于2009年制定了“债务制动”条款，要求把联邦预算赤字限制在GDP的0.35%以内。
In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, Germany enacted a "debt brake" clause in 2009, requiring that the federal budget deficit be limited to 0.35% of GDP.
舒尔茨的提议为默克尔执政以来的首次。
Schultz's proposal is the first since Merkel took office.
截至22日，德国累积新冠确诊24873例，死亡94例，为欧洲确诊病例数量第三高国家。
As of June 22, Germany had the third highest number of confirmed cases in Europe, with 24,873 confirmed cases and 94 deaths.
意大利和西班牙依然排名前二。
Italy and Spain remain in the top two.
周日同一天，意大利进一步限制民众可活动范围，宣布禁止在意大利国内的跨镇和跨地区出行，紧急情况除外。
On Sunday, Italy imposed further restrictions on the movement of people, declaring a ban on travel across towns and regions within Italy, except in emergency situations.
政府还下令要求暂停汽车、服装、家具等非必需行业的生产。
The government also ordered a moratorium on production in non-essential industries such as cars, clothing and furniture.
到本周三，所有工厂需停工关门直到4月3日。
By Wednesday, all factories would have to shut down until April 3.
截至22日，意大利的死亡病例已经上升至5476例，为全球最高。
The number of deaths in Italy rose to 5,476 as of the 22nd, the highest in the world.
意大利部分工会认为政府在关闭工厂上的力度依然不够，有工会领袖甚至威胁将举行罢工以示抗议。
Some unions in Italy say the government's efforts to close factories remain inadequate, with union leaders even threatening to go on strike in protest.
周六晚，意大利总理孔特在Facebook发表视频讲话，将此次疫情称为意大利二战以来的最严重危机。
In a video speech on Facebook Saturday night, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte described the outbreak as Italy's worst crisis since World War II.
他警告，意大利北部的卫生系统已经处于崩溃边缘，几乎每个重症监护病床都被占用。
He warned that the health system in northern Italy was on the verge of collapse, with almost every intensive care bed occupied.
卫生部上周发布的数据显示，重灾区伦巴第大区的ICU病床已经使用了94%。
Data released last week by the Ministry of Health show that 94% of ICU beds have been used in the most affected region, Lombardy.
意大利国立卫生研究院上周统计显示，新冠死亡病例中有87%的患者在70岁以上。
Italy's National Institutes of Health last week reported that 87 percent of deaths in the new crown were among people over 70.
中国已经向意大利送去了专家小组和医用物资；周日，50多名古巴医生抵达米兰提供协助；俄罗斯军队还表示，应总统普京要求，军方将向意大利运送救援物资。
China has sent teams of experts and medical supplies to Italy, more than 50 Cuban doctors arrived in Milan Sunday to help, and Russian troops said the military will deliver aid to Italy at the request of President Vladimir Putin.
同样在周日，西班牙宣布将紧急状态延长15天。
Also Sunday, Spain extended the state of emergency for 15 days.
近几日，西班牙的死亡病例持续上升。
The number of deaths in Spain has continued to rise in recent days.
周日，西班牙在24小时内新增394例死亡病例，累计死亡1772例。
On Sunday, Spain recorded 394 new deaths in 24 hours, bringing the total to 1,772.
但西班牙卫生警报和紧急情况协调中心主任西蒙（Fernando Simon）在当天的讲话中表示，模型预测显示西班牙已经离峰值不远，“如果我们走运，将能够让曲线发生变化，使其稳定，然后开始下降”。
But Fernando Simon, director of the Spanish Coordination Centre for Health Alerts and Emergencies, said in a statement the same day that model predictions showed that Spain was close to its peak and that "if we are lucky, we will be able to change the curve, stabilize it and start to fall."
确诊数排在德国之后的法国于周日宣布将对违反居家令规定者实施更严格的处罚，罚款从135欧元到3700欧元不等，多次违反规定者将面临六个月监禁。
France, which is behind Germany in the list of confirmed offenders, on Sunday announced tougher penalties ranging from 135 euros to 3,700 euros for violating the rules, which can lead to six months in jail.
法国于当天出现了首例医护人员死亡。
The first death of a medical worker occurred in France that day.
殉职者为贡比涅一所大学医院的急诊科医生，该医院还有多名医护人员被确诊。
Those killed were emergency doctors at a university hospital in Compigne, where a number of medical staff were also diagnosed.
累计确诊624例的希腊也宣布全国封城，要求从周一起，民众只能因工作、购买食品药品、看病、遛狗等必需事务出门，出门填写声明文件。
Greece, which has a cumulative total of 624 confirmed cases, also declared a nationwide ban, requiring people to travel and fill out declaration forms on weekdays only for essential tasks such as work, food and medicine, medical consultations and walking dogs.
希腊是最早采取严格措施的欧洲国家之一，在10日就宣布关闭全国学校、餐馆、商店、健身房、电影院、博物馆等公共场所。
Greece is one of the first European countries to take strict measures, announced on the 10th the closure of schools, restaurants, shops, gymnasiums, cinemas, museums and other public places across the country.
希腊总理米佐塔基斯表示，新措施是为了避免意大利的悲剧在希腊重演，“我们不能走到必须决定谁生谁死的地步”。
Prime Minister Mitsotakis said the new measures were designed to avoid a repeat of the Italian tragedy in Greece, "we cannot go so far as to have to decide who lives and who dies."
英国首相约翰逊则于周日对国民发出警告，要求民众保持两米的安全距离，否则英国将实施宵禁、限制出行等更严格的措施。
On Sunday, British Prime Minister Gordon Johnson warned his countrymen to keep a safe distance of two meters or face tougher measures such as curfews and travel restrictions.
截至22日，英国累计确诊5741例，死亡282例。
As of June 22, a cumulative total of 5,741 cases and 282 deaths had been diagnosed in the UK.
累计确诊数为欧洲第六。
The cumulative number of confirmed cases is sixth in Europe.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
欧洲多国再推防疫新规，“逛超市不囤货”的默克尔被德国群众发上网。
In Europe, where many countries pushed new rules, Merkel, who "does not hoard goods in supermarkets," was given Internet access by the German public.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "欧洲多国再推防疫新规，“逛超市不囤货”的默克尔被德国群众发上网";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "刚公布新规禁止两人以上公共聚会后数小时，德国总理默克尔就宣布进入自我隔离。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; German Chancellor Angela Merkel declared herself isolated just hours after new rules banned public gatherings of more than two people.
现年65岁的她将继续在家办公。
The 65-year-old will continue to work from home.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
