美国腕表品牌Fossil叫停在华生产，其东莞代工厂面临关停风险。
American wrist watch brand Fossil stopped production in China, its Dongguan agent plant faced the risk of shutdown.
界女士。
Ms. Reynolds.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：黄姗编辑 ：周卓然“ 东莞精度表业有限公司（以下简称精度公司）3月21日发布的一份关停风险公告。
Reporter: Zhou Zhuoran "Dongguan Precision Meter Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as precision) issued on March 21, a notice of closure risk.
”据一封公告信息显示，受到疫情冲击，美国腕表品牌Fossi近日叫停了在华代加工业务。
Fossi, the US wristwatch brand, recently suspended its contract processing business in China after being hit by the outbreak, according to a bulletin.
该消息来自东莞精度表业有限公司（以下简称精度公司）3月21日发布的一份关停风险公告。
This information comes from Dongguan Precision Meter Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as precision) issued on March 21, a closure of the risk announcement.
精度公司在公告中称，该公司最重要客户美国Fossil品牌“现已全部停止下单，同时要求取消或暂停原生产订单，导致工厂无法正常开工，公司经营已出现重大危机，面临随时关停的风险。
The company said in a statement that its most important customer, the U.S. label Fossil, had "stopped placing orders and asked for the cancellation or suspension of original production orders, causing the plant to be shut down and facing a major crisis in its operations," it said in a statement.
”界面记者就此联系精度公司，截至发稿，该公司尚未作出回应，该公司电话也无人接听。
Interface reporter on this contact precision company, as of the draft, the company has not yet responded, the company's phone calls were not answered.
在中国精度公司宣布停产前三天，美国的Fossil集团宣布关闭所有北美门店和绝大多数欧洲门店。
Three days before China Accuracy announced the shutdown, the US-based Fossil Group announced the closure of all North American stores and most European stores.
在18日的一份公告中，Fossil集团称欧美门店停业时间将持续到3月28日。
In a statement on March 18, the Fossil Group said stores in Europe and the United States will be closed until March 28.
同时，该集团撤销了上个月发布的2020全年和第一季度盈利预期。
Meanwhile, the group canceled its 2020 and first-quarter earnings forecasts issued last month.
根据中国钟表协会数据，东莞所处的广东珠三角地区是中国钟表代工厂的集中地之一，集中了大量为西方钟表品牌生产钟表的中小型代工厂。
Dongguan's Guangdong Pearl River Delta region is one of the centers of China's watch-making factories, with a large number of small and medium-sized factories that make clocks for western watch brands, according to the China Watch Association.
依靠外部订单存活的代工厂在新冠疫情的冲击下正在面临生存的考验。
Substitutes surviving on outside orders are facing the test of survival under the impact of the new crown.
精度公司就是其中一家。
Precision is one of them.
在公告中，精度公司宣布全厂停产三个月的放假安排，并表示对员工这时候辞职的理解，并作出辞职员工的遣散费用等相关安排。
In the announcement, Precision announced a three-month vacation schedule for the plant and said it understood when employees were quitting and made arrangements such as severance payments for employees who resigned.
蔓延全球的新冠肺炎疫情对多个行业造成巨大冲击，钟表行业也不例外。
The global outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia has had a huge impact on many industries, and the watch industry is no exception.
奢侈品表商劳力士和百达翡丽上周已经宣布关闭位于瑞士的生产基地至3月底。
Luxury goods watchmakers Rolex and Patek Jade announced last week that they would close production bases in Switzerland until the end of March.
LVMH集团旗下的宇舶表也在近日表示，在接到进一步通知之前将暂时关闭生产基地。
China State, owned by LVMH, also recently said it would temporarily close its production base until further notice.
更早以前，全球最重要的钟表展会“Watches &Wonders”和“Baselworld”钟表展都先后宣布延期，后者将直接推迟到2021年举办。
Earlier, the world's most important watch exhibitions, Watches & amp; amp; Wonders and Baselworld, have all been postponed, and the latter will be postponed until 2021.
面对冲击，业绩稳健的企业尚且需要全力以赴小心应对，而早已显出疲态的企业就更举步维艰。
In the face of the shock, the steady performance of enterprises and need to be fully and carefully to deal with, and has been showing signs of fatigue enterprises are more difficult.
Fossil则属于后者。
Fossil belongs to the latter.
界面记者翻阅Fossil集团近年财报时发现，从2017年至今，Fossil集团公开招聘岗位的数量就在不断下降。
Fossil Group has seen a steady decline in the number of open job openings since 2017, according to Fossil.
今年2月21日，Fossil集团宣布总部裁员，裁员人数未知。
On 21 February this year, the Fossil Group announced an unknown number of staff reductions at its headquarters.
另一方面，Fossil集团还加速了库存大甩卖。
On the other hand, the Fossil Group has also accelerated the sale of stocks.
在今年1月底，该公司启动了低价库存的甩卖行动。
At the end of January, the company launched a sale of low-cost inventory.
而这一系列裁员和甩卖动作背后都是Fossil集团应对连年来业绩疲软的结果。
The series of layoffs and sales is the result of years of poor results by the Fossil Group.
Fossil来自美国腕表销售商Fossi集团，该集团主营智能腕表业务，兼营皮具和珠宝等其它产品。
Fossil is from Fossi Group, an American wristwatch seller that specializes in smart wristwatches and other products such as leather goods and jewellery.
该集团旗下有多个腕表品牌，有Fossil和Missfit这样的自有品牌，也代理BMW、Kate Spade、Michale Kors等多个奢侈品牌的腕表业务 。
The group has several wristwatch brands, such as Fossil and Missfit, and works with luxury brands such as BMW, Kate Spade and Michale Kors.
近几年，传统上善于指针式电子表开发的Fossil集团着力于战略转型，希望转型成为“混合式智能手表”制造商，以应对竞争愈发激烈的市场环境，和新一代智能手表崛起对传统电子手表带来的冲击。
In recent years, Fossil, a group traditionally adept at developing finger-operated electronic watches, has focused on strategic transformation, hoping to transform itself into a "hybrid smart watch" manufacturer in response to the increasingly competitive market environment and the impact of the rise of a new generation of smart watches on traditional electronic watches.
同时，Fossil集团也在丰富产品品类，包括增加皮具和珠宝等品类来多元化经营范围以此分散全球市场竞争带来的风险。
At the same time, the Fossil Group is diversifying its range of products, including leather goods and jewellery, in order to spread the risks of global market competition.
不过，Fossil集团的转型始终未迎来收获。
However, the transformation of the Fossil Group has not yet yielded results.
近年来，该集团业绩增长始终疲软。
Growth in the group's performance has been weak in recent years.
截止到2019年第四季度末，Fossil集团第四季度录得净销量同比下滑10%。
By the end of the fourth quarter of 2019, Fossil Group recorded a 10% year-on-year decline in net sales.
其中，腕表业务录得净销量同比下滑9%，皮具和珠宝业务则录得净销量同比下滑9%和16%。
Among them, the wrist watch business recorded a 9% year-on-year decrease in net sales, while the leather goods and jewellery business recorded a 9% and 16% year-on-year decline.
Fossil集团业绩下滑与美国市场实体零售业处在下行期关系密切。
The decline in Fossil's performance is closely linked to the U.S. retail sector.
Fossil集团高度依赖批发渠道，这使得该集团缺乏应对外部风险的能力。
The Fossil Group is highly dependent on wholesale channels, which makes it less able to cope with external risks.
虽然Fossil也有直营和奥莱店，但Fossil在京销售渠道的柜台或门面数量是直营渠道的数十倍；这其中，美国本土零售百货如JC Penney、Kohl's、Macy's等三家百货公司Fossil门店排名前三。
Although Fossil also has direct sales outlets and Olai stores, the number of counters or façades in Beijing is dozens of times that of direct channels; of these, three U.S. department stores, such as JC Penney, Kohl & apos; s and Macy & apos; are in the top three.
而美国零售市场这几年正处在洗牌期，这几家零售商都处在市场萎缩阶段，这都间接对Fossil的销量造成负面影响。
Fossil's sales have been negatively affected by the U.S. retail market, which has been undergoing a reshuffle in recent years, with several retailers in a contracting market.
业绩持续低迷令资本市场对Fossil失去信心。
Capital markets have lost confidence in Fossil because of persistently poor results.
Fossil集团过去一年股价跌幅为60%，市值严重缩水。
Fossil, which has lost 60 per cent of its value over the past year, has seen its market capitalisation shrink.
去年7月7日，在Fossil集团宣布第三季度净销量同比下滑11.4%后，该集团股价暴跌25%，到了2月26日发布第四季度财报时，该集团股价又跌20%。
On July 7, after the Fossil Group reported a year-on-year decline of 11.4 per cent in third quarter net sales, its shares tumbled 25 per cent and fell another 20 per cent when it reported fourth-quarter results on February 26.
新冠疫情或许成为压倒Fossil Group最后一根稻草。
The new crown may be the last straw that overwhelms the Fossil Group.
美国是Fossil集团最大的市场，2019年该地区营收占比为42.84%。
The United States is the largest market for the Fossil Group, with a revenue share of 42.84 per cent in 2019.
欧洲和亚洲市场次之，营收占比分别为32.26%和24.13%。
Europe and Asia followed with 32.26 per cent and 24.13 per cent, respectively.
随着新冠疫情爆发，美国多个州宣布进入国家紧急状态，其结果是多市零售商被迫关门应对新冠疫情，这其中包括Macy's等在内的百货商店。
With the outbreak of the new crown, several U.S. states declared a state of emergency, as a result of which multi-city retailers, including Macy & apos; s department stores, were forced to close down in response to the new crown.
这些第三方零售商的关门，以及Fossil自营门店的关门，可预见将极大影响Fossil集团第一季度的业绩。
The closure of these third-party retailers, as well as the closure of the Fossil proprietary stores, is expected to have a significant impact on the performance of the Fossil Group in the first quarter.
不过，Fossil集团试图通过强调电商渠道和仍在运营的亚太地区来削弱欧美门店关门带来的影响。
However, Fossil is trying to soften the impact of closing stores in Europe and the US by emphasizing the power business channel and the Asia-Pacific region where it still operates.
在Fossil集团3月18日发布的公告中，该公司强调消费者仍然可以通过官方在线商城购买旗下产品；同时，亚太地区市场的门店仍在运营之中。
In a March 18 announcement by the Fossil Group, the company stressed that consumers could still buy their products through official online shopping malls, while stores in the Asia-Pacific market were still in operation.
新冠疫情在中国内地市场已经得以控制，但消费需求的恢复仍需时间。
The outbreak has been contained in the mainland market, but it will take time for consumer demand to recover.
而在香港地区市场方面，新冠疫情仍有增长的趋势，这也势必为该地区的钟表消费带来诸多不确定性。
In the Hong Kong regional market, the new crown epidemic is still on the rise, which is bound to bring a lot of uncertainty to the region's watch consumption.
事实上，作为东亚地区最重要的钟表市场之一，香港市场的钟表零售业表现并不乐观。
Indeed, as one of the most important watch markets in East Asia, the watch retail sector in Hong Kong is not doing well.
根据香港政府统计处数据，2020年1月香港零售业总销货额为378亿港元，同比下跌21.4%。
According to the Census and Statistics Department of Hong Kong, total retail sales in January 2020 were HK $37.8 billion, down 21.4% year on year.
钟表和珠宝在过去半年已经是该地区销量下跌最大的零售领域。
Clocks and jewellery have been the region's biggest retail sales declines in the past six months.
对于Fossil集团而言，欧美仍是其主要业绩市场，得以恢复的亚太地区的销量对于集团整体上半年的业绩恐怕也不会有关键性帮助。
For the Fossil group, the U.S. and Europe remain its main earnings markets, and sales in the resurgent Asia-Pacific region are unlikely to be critical to the group's overall first-half results.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国腕表品牌Fossil叫停在华生产，其东莞代工厂面临关停风险。
American wrist watch brand Fossil stopped production in China, its Dongguan agent plant faced the risk of shutdown.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国腕表品牌Fossil叫停在华生产，其东莞代工厂面临关停风险";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "东莞精度表业有限公司（以下简称精度公司）3月21日发布的一份关停风险公告。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Dongguan Precision Meter Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as precision) issued on March 21 a notice of shutdown risk.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
