留在欧洲的中国学生：与其回国“添乱”，不如专注眼前。
Chinese Students Remaining in Europe: Instead of "adding insult to injury" in their homeland, focus on the immediate future.
界面地球姨。
Auntie Earth.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：田思奇编辑 ：陈升龙“ 在积极克服困难的同时，他们也充当起了信息桥梁的角色。
Interviewer: Tian Siqi, editor: Chen Shenglong "while actively overcoming difficulties, they also act as a bridge of information.
”“房东太太叫我们的父母不用担心，因为（我和室友）在意大利这边相对安全。
"" The landlady told our parents not to worry because [me and my roommate] were relatively safe on the Italian side.
”中国疫情爆发初期，意大利在1月底被迫取消了中国直飞航班。
In the early days of the outbreak, Italy was forced to cancel direct flights to China in late January.
在托斯卡纳大区留学的张妍不断收到房东太太的邮件，询问中国的疫情，以及她和室友父母在国内的情况。
Zhang Yans, who studies in Tuscany, continues to receive emails from her landlady enquiring about the situation in China and her roommate's parents at home.
但让房东太太始料未及的是，意大利疫情的迅猛发展迫使政府在两周内从“封区”到“锁国”。
But, to the landlady's surprise, the explosion in Italy forced the government to move from "enclave" to "lock up" within two weeks.
截至北京时间3月23日上午，意大利累计确诊近6万例，病亡率超过9%。
By the morning of March 23, Beijing time, nearly 60,000 cases had been diagnosed in Italy, with a fatality rate of more than 9 percent.
“自由流动的欧洲”长期以来都是欧罗巴大陆引以为豪的理念，但这也让意大利的疫情得以“轻松”扩散到其他国家。
The idea of a "free-flowing Europe" has long been a source of pride for the continent, but it has also allowed the epidemic to spread "easily" to other countries.
在一个月内，欧洲新冠肺炎感染者从不足1000发展到突破12万。
Within a month, the number of new cases of pneumonia in Europe rose from less than 1,000 to more than 120,000.
西班牙、法国和德国病例早早破万，十多个国家确诊过千。
Cases were diagnosed early in Spain, France and Germany, with more than 1,000 cases diagnosed in more than a dozen countries.
与此同时，留学欧洲的中国学生们也进入了不同寻常的春季学期。
Meanwhile, Chinese students studying in Europe are entering an unusual spring term.
忙于上网课写论文的他们深居简出，也曾在戴不戴口罩，以及哪里买口罩的问题上遇到阻碍。
They, too, who are busy writing essays online, have had problems wearing masks and buying them.
欧洲人的“心大”一度令人困惑，在一部分留学生选择回国之际，也有不少同学对当地政府抱有信心，认为当下最好的做法是原地不动，保持和往日一样的生活。
While some students have chosen to return home, others are confident that the best way to do so is to stay put and stay where they used to be.
身处意大利、法国、德国、比利时和瑞典的六位留学生，向界面新闻讲述了各自亲历的“欧式”战疫。
Six students in Italy, France, Germany, Belgium and Sweden told Interface News about their own "European" epidemics.
在积极克服困难的同时，他们也充当起了信息桥梁的角色。
While actively overcoming difficulties, they also act as a bridge of information.
蔓延：迟来的政府宣传初始的慌乱感并不属于欧洲当地居民。
Spillover: The initial sense of panic at the belated government propaganda did not belong to the local population in Europe.
2月20日和21日，就读于米兰理工大学的孙小野注意到，意大利本地出现疫情扩散。
On February 20 and 21, Sun Xiaoye, a student at Milan's Polytechnic University, noticed the spread of the epidemic in Italy itself.
正值本学期开学前夕，距离她所在的伦巴第大区Mantova校区约1小时车程的小镇确诊16例病例。
On the eve of the start of the school year, 16 cases were diagnosed in a small town located approximately an hour's drive from the Mantova campus in the Lombardy region.
几天后，学校开始线上授课，持续至今。
A few days later, the school began to teach online and continues to this day.
在比利时鲁汶居住的李宇婷最后一次去健身房是3月2日。
Li Yuting, who lives in Louvain, Belgium, last went to the gym on March 2.
她最初听说有意大利回来的人确诊，但也没有集中隔离。
She had first heard of cases diagnosed in Italy, but there was no centralized segregation.
“居家隔离的人接受采访时说自己非常自由，想去哪去哪。
"In interviews, people in isolated homes say they are very free to go and where they want to go.
听说对于确诊的病人就这样放在家里隔离，也没有任何措施的时候，大家就开始慌了。
People began to panic when they heard that the diagnosed patients were being kept in isolation at home without any measures.
”累计确诊病例数超3400的比利时拥有高度自治的三个大区和两种官方语言——法语及荷兰语。
Belgium, with a cumulative total of 3,400 confirmed cases, has three regions with a high degree of autonomy and two official languages, French and Dutch.
据李宇婷介绍，该国为了保护隐私只有三个大区分别公布确诊总数，没有各个城市具体数据。
According to Li, only three regions disclose the total number of confirmed cases in order to protect privacy, with no city-specific data available.
“我每次出门都觉得风平浪静，好像什么事都没发生，”她说。
"I feel calm every time I go out, as if nothing has happened," she said.
“我再一回来，打开手机看到这些数字，或者救护车去了哪个学生公寓，我就觉得是真实发生过，但又感觉不到。
"The next time I come back, I open the phone and see the numbers, or which student apartment the ambulance goes to, I think it happened, but I don't feel it.
”“除了身边的中国人和伊朗人，其他族群就感觉是在另一个世界，”李宇婷感到很困惑。
"Apart from the Chinese and Iranians around, other ethnic groups feel like they are in a different world," Li said.
“我会觉得反常的是我，是我反应过度。
"I think it's abnormal that I'm overreacting.
”不过，欧洲人的反应“不是因为心大，而是政府没有太多宣传，也就没怎么了解，”在巴黎艺术类院校就读的张旭这样说道。
But Europe's reaction "is not that the heart is big, but that the government does not give much publicity and does not know much about it," says Zhang Xu, a student at an art school in Paris.
“法国直到3月16日才让大家戴口罩，才说无症状也会传染给别人。
"France did not allow people to wear masks until March 16, only to say that asymptomatic will also infect others.
民众都觉得是普通流感。
People think it's a common flu.
”还有部分北欧人相信，与“一种新流感”相比，气候变化对人类的影响大得多。
Some Scandinavians also believe that climate change will have a much greater impact on people than a "new flu."
在瑞典乌普萨拉大学读博的宋凯常和当地老师讨论疫情，老师表示：“我每年都得普通流感，在家呆三天，大不了我呆四天。
"I get the flu every year, I stay at home for three days, not four days," the teacher said, discussing the situation with local teachers at Uppsala University in Sweden.
”相对来说，宋凯观察到，气候变化、温度升高、整体环境变化可能导致人类灭绝——瑞典的老师更关心这些。
In relative terms, Mr Song observed that climate change, rising temperatures and overall environmental change could lead to human extinction - concerns that teachers in Sweden are more concerned about.
至于瑞典按照欧盟委员会建议从3月19日封锁边境30天的做法，老师也对宋凯强调，这纯粹是迫于外界压力：“德国封了、丹麦封了、挪威封了，周边国家都封了，我们瑞典就得做点什么，要不显得我们什么都没做。
As for Sweden's 30-day closure of its borders on March 19, as recommended by the European Commission, the teacher also stressed to Song Kai that this was simply due to external pressure: "Germany is sealed, Denmark is sealed, Norway is sealed, all around us are sealed, and we have to do something about Sweden or appear to have done nothing."
”“病毒那么小，戴口罩没用”在东亚国家的疫情防控里，人人戴口罩是最直观的表现。
"It's so small a virus, it's no use wearing a mask," he said.
据孙小野观察，中国留学生在意大利只有十几二十例确诊时也戴上了口罩。
According to Sun Xiaoye, Chinese students in Italy only a dozen or so cases of diagnosis were also wearing masks.
但这让包括意大利人在内的欧洲人十分不解。
But this puzzled Europeans, including Italians.
几乎所有接受采访的留欧中国学生都对界面新闻表示，欧洲人坚信有严重疾病时才戴口罩，没有用口罩预防传染的概念。
Almost all Chinese students interviewed in Europe told the Interface News that Europeans wear masks only when they believe there is a serious illness and do not use masks to prevent infection.
“病毒那么小，戴口罩没用，”一位瑞典老师对宋凯说。
"The virus is so small that it's useless to wear a mask," a Swedish teacher told Song Kai.
在意大利居住了4年的张妍说：“国内有雾霾时大家都会戴，天气冷了也戴。
"Everyone wears haze at home, and we wear it when it's cold," said Zhang, who has lived in Italy for four years.
韩国、日本等亚洲圈子戴口罩都很正常。
South Korea, Japan and other Asian circles wearing masks are normal.
这就好像只有中国人或者亚洲人才在夏天打伞，但在意大利这边夏天打伞很奇怪。
It's as if only Chinese or Asians take umbrellas in the summer, but it's strange on the Italian side in the summer.
”张妍还发现，也许欧洲人天生不适合戴口罩。
"Zhang also found that perhaps Europeans were not born to wear masks.
“对他们来讲戴口罩可能是更不舒服的事情，因为人种关系，他们鼻梁都挺高，戴也戴不好，可能口罩还需要改进。
"Wearing masks can be even more uncomfortable for them because of their race, they have high noses, they don't wear them well and maybe they need to improve their masks," he said.
”尽管街上戴的人不多，中国留学生手里还是每人囤了二三十个以防万一。
Despite the small number of people on the street, twenty or thirty were hoarded by Chinese students, just in case.
张妍买的普通医用一次性口罩约1.2欧元一个。
Zhang Yans bought a disposable medical mask of about 1.2 euros a year.
相对来说，她平时打扫卫生时买的口罩仅0.5欧一个，“这种情况下有就不错了，不会特别计较价格。
In relative terms, she buys only 0. 5 masks for cleaning, "which is a good situation and doesn't care about prices."
”李宇婷也在比利时准备了20个普通外科口罩，但在补货时遇到麻烦。
Li also prepared 20 general surgical masks in Belgium, but had trouble restocking them.
她发现亚马逊上出现卖口罩的骗子：“他说已发货，三天送到，其实根本送不到。
"He said he had shipped it, delivered it in three days and couldn't get it at all," she said.
再联系卖家就说还要等十几天，但十几天后还是收不到。
Contact the seller to say that there will be ten days to wait, but ten days later or not received.
再一看评论区，所有人都说没收到。
One more look at the comments section. Everyone said they didn't get it.
”前后打了三四个客户电话，等待十几天后，李宇婷总算拿回退款。
After making three or four phone calls to customers and waiting for ten days, Li was able to get a refund.
但据她所说：“很多人被骗了也就这样了。
But she said: "A lot of people have been tricked and that's it.
”在巴黎的张旭则在买口罩时历经更多波折。
Zhang Xu in Paris has gone through more twists and turns when buying masks.
她的第一笔订单理应从德国发货，标价60欧元50个，但德国人隔天打来电话说没货了。
Her first order was supposed to be shipped from Germany, priced at 60 euros and 50 euros, but the Germans called the next day to say they were out of stock.
后来张旭从新闻里得知德国禁止口罩出口，所以又找了一家法国网站购买“黑色的，很厚的口罩，资质和保质期写得很明白”。
Later Zhang learned from the news that Germany banned the export of face masks, so he went to a French website to buy "a black, thick mask with a clear qualification and expiration date.
然而她收到的是一次性医用口罩，写着湖北仙桃生产，“仅供湖北疫区”。
What she received, however, was a disposable medical mask that said Hubei Xiantao was produced "only for Hubei epidemic area."
于是张旭又去巴黎的药妆店买口罩。
So Zhang Xu went to the dressing shop in Paris to buy a mask.
那家中国人开的药妆店只把口罩和酒精卖给中国人。
The Chinese-owned dressing shop sells only masks and alcohol to the Chinese.
“店里其他的药都卖给法国人，但如果问有没有口罩，那就是没有，中国人问有没有口罩，就会拿给你。
"The rest of the medicine in the store is sold to the French, but if asked if there is a mask, it is not.
药妆店里卖48欧元/50个，还比法国网站下单这批便宜。
It sells 48 euros / 50 make-up stores and is cheaper than the French website.
”张旭供图如果说抢购口罩可以理解，抢购厕纸则成为全世界的未解之谜。
If snapping up masks is understandable, snapping up toilet paper has become a mystery around the world.
“大家都没有准备，不知道该囤什么，但媒体上报道过囤厕纸（所以大家会买）。
"Everyone was unprepared for what to hoard, but the media reported hoarding paper (so everyone would buy it).
而且厕纸又不像食品那么容易坏，囤多了就放个一年半载，心理上有个安慰，感觉到自己也囤了东西，”德国图宾根大学的研究生刘佳对界面新闻分析道。
And toilet paper isn't as bad as food, hoarding more than a year and a half is a psychological comfort and a sense of being in possession of something, "Liu Jia, a graduate student at the University of Tubingen in Germany, told Interface News.
“实际上大家和媒体都解释不清，也不能说德国人多么爱干净。
"In fact, people and the media can't explain, nor can they say how clean the Germans are.
”不过在历经疫情暴发初期的短暂抢购后，欧洲各国超市的食品供应已恢复正常。
But food supplies to supermarkets across Europe have returned to normal after a brief snap-up in the early stages of the outbreak.
身在鲁汶的李宇婷发现，在酒精和消毒用品被抢光后，比利时人在3月13日疯抢蔬菜、肉类、香肠和厕纸。
In Louvain, Li found that Belgians raided vegetables, meat, sausages and toilet paper on March 13 after alcohol and disinfectant supplies were looted.
正是从那天起，比利时全国停课，娱乐性公共活动一律取消，酒吧、餐厅等暂时关门。
Since that date, classes have been suspended throughout Belgium, recreational public events have been cancelled and bars, restaurants and the like have been closed temporarily.
李宇婷表示，她经常去的亚洲超市供货正常，但若想去市中心的家乐福，一定要在上货时间去，“去得晚就什么都没了”。
Ms. Li says the Asian supermarket she often visits is normal, but to get to Carrefour downtown, it's time to go 'late or nothing.
李宇婷供图李宇婷供图尽管意大利已经“封国”，不得随意外出，但身在托斯卡纳的张妍幸运地享受到了华人超市送货服务。
Yu Ting Li Yu Ting supply chart Although Italy has "closed the country", must not go out, but in Tuscany Zhang Yan fortunately enjoyed the Chinese supermarket delivery service.
另一个北部城镇的超市每周会来送三趟货，而送货是正当理由，不受意大利封锁限制。
Supermarkets in another northern town send goods three times a week, and deliveries are justified and not subject to the Italian embargo.
学生可以在手机上下单，补充各种新鲜蔬菜。
Students can order a variety of fresh vegetables on their mobile phones.
法式贴心战疫、意式文艺送别但除了上述情况外，“现在大家出门必须带着‘良民证’，”张妍对界面新闻说。
French close-heart disease, Italian literature and art send off but in addition to the above, "now we have to go out with a 'good citizen card'," Zhang told Interface News.
意大利民众需提前写好个人信息，在警察盘查时证明有出门采买和工作的必要性。
Italians have to write personal information in advance to prove the need to go out and buy and work during police checks.
虽然不能像国内封锁城市这样彻底，但张妍认为意大利已经做得不错。
Though not as complete as the domestic blockade of the city, Zhang Yans thinks Italy has done well.
“米兰那边医院的医护人员三四个礼拜没有好好休息过，我觉得挑战（比我们托斯卡纳大区）更大，”张妍说。
"The hospital staff at Milan didn't have a good rest for three or four weeks, and I felt the challenge was greater (than in our region of Tuscany)," Zhang said.
“相对来说意大利人的性格比中国人更‘懒懒散散’一些，做事情聊着天那种。
"The Italians are relatively more 'lazy' than the Chinese, and do things like that.
不过现阶段他们也绷得很紧，正想办法解决这件事。
At the moment, though, they are working hard to solve the problem.
”值得一提的是，率先出现疫情扩散的是意大利北部，这里有米兰、威尼斯、佛罗伦萨、都灵等经济重镇和全球性的旅游目的地。
It is worth noting that northern Italy was the first to see the spread of the epidemic, with economic powerhouses such as Milan, Venice, Florence and Turin and global tourist destinations.
“政府很难一下子封锁这些地方，”生活在距离米兰2小时车程的孙小野说。
"It's hard for the government to block these places all at once," said Sun Xiaoye, who lives two hours away from Milan.
“一直到3月初的时候还有人在酒吧聚集，政府可能害怕民众的抵抗情绪，没有一下子封闭。
"Until early March, when people were still congregating in bars, the government probably wasn't closed for fear of popular resistance.
”但孙小野发现，意大利政府已通过逐步限制营业时间，限制人流量，一直到最后关闭的过程来让民众一步步接纳“封国”的隔离生活。
But Mr Sun found that the Italian government had allowed people to gradually embrace "closed" living in isolation by gradually restricting business hours and traffic until the final closure.
刘佳也认为，德国政府已经在能力范围内做得较好，政府和媒体层面的预警很早。
Liu also believes the German government has done well within its means, with early warnings from the government and the media.
“刚出现几例的时候，媒体的报道就很严肃，话里话外都透露出了问题的严峻性，用了很多虚拟语气希望引起大家重视。
"When there are a few cases, the media reports are very serious, and both the words and the words reveal the seriousness of the problem," he said.
工作地的卫生间和公共区域多了很多消毒设备。
There is a lot more disinfection equipment in the toilets and public areas of the workplace.
”这似乎也解释了为什么包括德国在内的欧洲人看似“松懈”。
This seems to explain why Europeans, including Germany, seem "relaxed."
刘佳认为，德国人不会恐惧和紧张，因为信任国家卫生体系。
The Germans will not be afraid and nervous because they trust the national health system, Liu said.
他们也相信政府公布了事项，接下来就会严肃对待。
They also believe the government has made the announcement and will take it seriously.
法国政府的政策细节让张旭感到贴心。
The details of French government policy are dear to Zhang Xu.
“如果医生护士正常上班，国家有专门的地方帮忙照顾孩子让他们放心。
"If doctors and nurses go to work normally, the state has a special place to help take care of the children and reassure them.
针对中小企业的话，店租、水电都是国家全包。
For small and medium-sized enterprises, store rental, water and electricity are all state-owned.
出租车和酒店也会优先支持医护人员。
Taxis and hotels will also give priority to health care workers.
而且法国相对人少，只要在家宅着问题不大。
And France is relatively small, as long as the problem is not big at home.
”与此同时，隔离在家的法国人和西班牙人会定时出现在阳台上为医护人员鼓掌欢呼，意大利人则发起大量充满艺术气息的阳台音乐会。
Meanwhile, isolated Frenchmen and Spaniards regularly clap their hands on balconies, while Italians stage a flood of artistic balcony concerts.
然而孙小野所在的社区老年人较多，似乎不太接受大家一起唱歌的活动。
Sun's community, however, has more elderly people and seems less receptive to people singing together.
“昨晚我看到隔壁小哥拿出一个凳子、一个小茶几、放上一些红酒和零食，然后一个人听着音乐，坐在阳台上开始喝。
"Last night I saw the little brother next door take out a stool, a small tea table, put some red wine and snacks, then listen to the music alone, sitting on the balcony began to drink.
结果对面很多老年人就开始关窗户，他们需要休息。
As a result, many old people across the street began to close their windows.
”住在新社区的同学们的确能听到很多人弹吉他、放音乐。
Students in the new community can indeed hear many people playing the guitar and playing music.
据孙小野介绍，居民会在网站上召集中午12点或下午6点开始，因为刚好是公布当天死亡和确诊人数的时间。
Residents will call 12 noon or 6 p.m. on the Web site because it coincides with the announcement of the number of deaths and diagnoses on the day, Sun said.
唱歌也有部分给死者告别的涵义。
Singing also has a part of meaning to say goodbye to the dead.
有一次大家约好唱一首意大利歌曲《但是天空总是更蓝》，向死去的人表达追思。
Once it was agreed to sing an Italian song, "But the sky is always bluer," to send a message of remembrance to the dead.
“都先安稳下来，好好过自己的生活”随着越来越多的欧洲国家加入停课、关闭各大公共场所，甚至严禁随意外出的“封锁”状态，这些学习建筑设计、油画、艺术史和空间艺术的学生课业都遭遇不同程度的阻碍。
As more and more European countries join in the suspension of classes, the closure of public places and even the imposition of arbitrary "blockades," students studying architectural design, oil painting, art history and space art face varying degrees of obstacles.
即将从油画专业毕业的张妍担心这学期都会泡汤，于是她正在家里准备项目。
Zhang Yan, a graduate of oil painting, worried that this semester would be over, so she was preparing a project at home.
如果6月份学习恢复正常，仍然举行考试和毕业流程，那么影响就不大。
If learning returns to normal in June and the examination and graduation processes continue, the impact will be small.
在德国学习艺术史的刘佳听说，学校的复课时间要推迟到5月。
Liu Jia, who is studying art history in Germany, heard that the reopening of the school would be postponed until May.
虽然她目前只需写论文，但图书馆关门后她也不方便查资料。
Although she only needs to write a paper at the moment, she has no easy access to information after the library closes.
“德国很多书没有电子化，一些孤本的书只能在图书馆看，不外借，所以有点麻烦。
"A lot of books in Germany are not electronic and some of the isolated books are only available in the library, not on loan, so it's a bit troublesome.
”上网课之余，身处疫情中心伦巴第大区的孙小野加入了名叫“四十日谈”的志愿小组。
"Sun Xiaoye, from Lombardy, the epicentre of the epidemic, joined a volunteer group called the Forty Days of Talk after school.
这个名字融合了14世纪黑死病的两个梗，包括当时的隔离时间“四十日”和以该时代为背景的薄伽丘短篇小说集《十日谈》。
The name combines two Terriers of the 14th century Black Death, including the then forty days of isolation and the era's set of short stories, the Ten Days of Discussion.
“我们想做一个沟通的媒介，尽量去从客观角度跟大家解释形势，把意大利这边的新闻或者信息传递到国内，把国内的东西再发到这边Facebook、推特上，”孙小野介绍说。
"We want to be a medium of communication, trying to explain the situation from an objective point of view, to bring news or information from the Italian side into the country and send things back home to Facebook and Twitter," Sun said.
小组有30人左右，以在意大利的留学生线上合作为主。
The group consisted of about 30 people, mainly working online with students in Italy.
组内有人负责翻译、撰文、视频制作或公关媒介，还会针对具体工作成立项目小组。
Translation, writing, video production or public relations media are carried out and project teams are set up for specific tasks.
巴黎的张旭仍以手头的项目为主。
Zhang Xu in Paris is still focused on the project at hand.
她需要留在当地查阅文献资料，看艺术家纪录片等，这成为她目前不回国的理由之一。
Her need to stay in the area to consult literature, see artists' documentaries, etc., has been one of the reasons why she is not returning home.
和许多其他留学生一样，张旭还担心飞机上的交叉感染，也认为不要回去给祖国“添乱”比较好。
Like many other international students, Zhang Xu worries about cross-infection on the plane and thinks it would be better not to go back and "mess up" the country.
从每阶段总统马克龙的讲话，和真实透明的确诊数据来看，张旭对法国政府的疫情应对也很有信心。
Judging by the president's speeches at every stage, and by his truthful and transparent diagnosis, Zhang Xu is confident of the French government's response to the epidemic.
人在比利时的李宇婷还在观望疫情发展来决定是否回国。
Li Yuting in Belgium is still watching the epidemic to decide whether to return home.
但她相信“回去是在添麻烦”。
But she believes "going back is troublesome."
她的一位同学航班取消好几次后终于回国，十几个小时戴着口罩全程没吃喝。
One of her classmates eventually returned home after several cancellations and spent more than a dozen hours without eating or drinking a mask.
接站的同省工作人员给带了面包和水，又派车把同学送到高铁站。
The provincial staff brought bread and water, and sent a car to take the students to the high-speed railway station.
“一路上听着就很麻烦，但又很感人，”李宇婷说。
"It was troublesome to listen to all the way, but it was very touching," Li said.
“但是你又能听出来，就因为这一个人你就给他派车，有专门的人在高铁站接待他，其实让那边的人工作量特别大。
"But you can see that because of this person you sent him a car, a special person to meet him at the high-speed rail station, in fact people there have a particularly heavy workload.
”托斯卡纳的张妍一度被母亲建议关注中国撤侨的信息，但她认为这不现实，因为意大利有多达30万华人。
Tuscany's Zhang Yan was once advised by her mother to pay attention to information about evacuating Chinese, but she did not think it was realistic because there were as many as 300,000 Chinese in Italy.
“国家能给意大利（援助）物资，派人过来指导已经很好了，毕竟国内的情况也是刚刚稳定下来。
"It would be good for the state to give Italy supplies and send people to guide it. After all, things are just stabilizing at home."
我们也不是学医学方面的，没办法做特别大贡献。
We're not studying medicine, and we can't make a big contribution.
就都先安稳下来，好好过自己的生活。
We should all settle down and live a good life.
”在瑞典生活环境空旷的宋凯打算开始在家办公。
Mr Songkai, who lives in an empty Swedish environment, plans to start work from home.
如果天气好的话，他会在下午推着婴儿车带9个月大的女儿出门散步。
If the weather were fine, he would take his 9-month-old daughter out for a walk in the afternoon in a pram.
“我家旁边是有森林的保护区，根本不会碰到人。
"There's a forest reserve next to my house that won't even touch anybody.
如果疫情再严重，大不了我后门打开，不跟人接触，家里存粮吃个一二十天没问题，反正我们家不跟别人接触，就是安全的。
If the outbreak is no more serious, I open the back door, do not contact people, the family food storage for a day or two can be no problem, anyway, we do not contact other people, is safe.
”（应受访者要求，张妍、李宇婷、张旭和孙小野为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of respondents, Zhang Yan, Li Yu-ting, Zhang Xu and Sun Xiaoye, alias) were prohibited from reprinting without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留在欧洲的中国学生：与其回国“添乱”，不如专注眼前。
Chinese Students Remaining in Europe: Instead of "adding insult to injury" in their homeland, focus on the immediate future.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "留在欧洲的中国学生：与其回国“添乱”，不如专注眼前";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese students who have stayed in Europe: Rather than "add insult to injury" at home, focus on & quot; & quot;;
var msg_desc = "在积极克服困难的同时，他们也充当起了信息桥梁的角色。
var msg _ desc = & quot; while actively overcoming its difficulties, they have also acted as information bridges.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
