巴黎世家和YSL将生产口罩。
The Paris family and YSL will produce masks.
楼婍沁。
Yue Chin Building.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Highsnobeity记者 ：楼婍沁编辑 ：周卓然“ 除了让自家品牌转产防护装备，开云集团还将从中国进口300万只外科口罩用以支援法国医疗系统。
Zhang Chaoran, editor of ZhouZhuoRan, said: "In addition to converting its own brand into protective gear, Kaiyun Group will import 3 million surgical masks from China to support the French healthcare system.
”随着海外新馆病毒疫情的持续加剧，各国时尚公司都在不停升级对于抗疫工作的投入。
Fashion companies around the world are stepping up their commitment to the fight against the disease as the virus continues to intensify in new galleries overseas.
法国奢侈品集团开云就在当地时间3月22日发表一篇声明称，其旗下奢侈品牌巴黎世家（Balenciaga）及YSL（Yves Saint Laurent）均计划在保证员工个人安全的前提下，转产医用防护口罩。
French luxury brands Balenciaga and Yves Saint Laurent are planning to switch to medical masks while ensuring their personal safety, the French luxury goods group said in a statement on March 22.
目前，相关工厂的口罩生产加工工艺流程及材料品质都已通过相关部门的审核验证。
At present, the production process and material quality of the relevant factories have been verified by the relevant departments.
而除了让自家品牌转产防护装备，开云集团还将从中国进口300万只医用外科口罩用以支援法国医疗系统。
In addition to turning its own brand into protective gear, Kaiyun will import three million medical surgical masks from China to support the French health-care system.
此前，开云集团曾公开表示，受疫情影响，其截至3月31日的新财年第一财季营收预计较上年同期下降13%至14%。
Earlier, Kaiyun Group had publicly said its first-quarter revenue, which ended March 31, was expected to fall 13% to 14% from a year earlier because of the epidemic.
而第二季度的业绩预计将受到比这更严重的冲击。
Second-quarter results are expected to be hit harder than that.
其第一财季数据计划将在4月21日对外公布。
Its first-quarter data are scheduled to be released on April 21.
事实上，近期转产防护设备的不只有开云集团旗下的品牌。
In fact, the recent conversion of protective equipment is not only Kaiyun Group's brand.
快时尚品牌Zara母公司Inditex也将自家工厂改造用于防护服的生产，而LVMH发动旗下生产Givenchy、Dior等品牌香水的工厂转产消毒洗手液。
Zara's parent company, Inditex, also converts its factories to make protective clothing, while LVMH launches factories that make Givenchy, Dior and other brands of perfume to turn hand sanitizers.
而美国纺服企业Fruit of the Loom以及American Knits等公司还成立了一个“口罩联盟”，将从当地时间3月23日起动工生产医用口罩，并称将在一个月内实现周产1000万只医用口罩的产能目标。
Companies such as Fruit of the Loom and American Knits have also formed a "mask coalition" to begin manufacturing medical masks on March 23 local time, saying it will meet its capacity target of producing 10 million medical masks a week within a month.
与此同时，这些公司也均利用自己在中国市场的物流渠道和供应商资源从中国为其本国防疫工作采购物资。
At the same time, these companies are using their own logistics channels and supplier resources in the Chinese market to procure supplies from China for their own epidemic prevention efforts.
比如，LVMH就宣布将从中国采购共计4000万只口罩。
LVMH, for example, announced that it would purchase a total of 40 million masks from China.
第一批1000万只口罩近几天就能交付。
The first batch of 10 million masks could be delivered within days.
不过，疫情对于全球社会的打击不光体现在物质层面。
However, the impact of the epidemic on the global community is not only physical.
每一个处在疫情发生地的人的心理健康也饱受负面影响。
The mental health of every person at the site of the outbreak has also been adversely affected.
这也是为什么诸如Giorgio Armani这样的品牌也开始注重对本国人民的心理慰问。
That is why brands such as Giorgio Armani are also beginning to focus on their people's psychological well-being.
Giorgio Armani与模特在品牌Giorgio Armani2020秋冬季后台合影据《女装日报》消息，Giorgio Armani在当地时间3月21日买下了意大利国内超过60份报纸的广告版面，用以发布一篇致该国医护工作者的公开慰问信。
Giorgio Armani is pictured with models in the backstage of Giorgio Armani's 2020 fall and winter, where Giorgio Armani bought ads for more than 60 Italian newspapers on March 21 local time to post a public message of condolence to health-care workers in the country, according to Women's Dress Daily.
信中写道，“看到你们克服如此大的困难，投身工作，为抗疫努力，实在令人动容……Giorgio Armani全公司和我个人，都与你们同在。
"It is very moving to see you overcome all these difficulties and get involved in the fight against the epidemic... Giorgio Armani and I personally are with you.
”Giorgio Armani是时尚业中最早对疫情做出反应的公司之一。
Giorgio Armani was one of the first fashion companies to respond to the epidemic.
它曾在刚刚结束的2020秋冬季米兰时装周期间，将自己的品牌大秀直接转为线上直播，并在工作现场派发防护口罩。
During the just-concluded Milan Fashion Week in autumn 2020, it switched its brand to live online and distributed face masks on the job site.
在3月早些时候，该品牌还为意大利当地的医院和医疗机构捐赠了125万欧元的资金。
Earlier in March, the brand also donated 1.25 million euros to local hospitals and medical institutions in Italy.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
巴黎世家和YSL将生产口罩。
The Paris family and YSL will produce masks.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "巴黎世家和YSL将生产口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "除了让自家品牌转产防护装备，开云集团还将从中国进口300万只外科口罩用以支援法国医疗系统。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Kaiyun will import three million surgical masks from China to bolster its health-care system, in addition to turning its own brand into protective gear.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
