中国驰援意大利后，这个被美国制裁的国家也出手相助。
After China bailed out Italy, the country that was sanctioned by the United States helped.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：潘金花“ 自1959年卡斯特罗革命成功以来，古巴政府就一直在大力发展公共医疗，努力培养医护人员。
Journalist: Pan Jinhua "Since the success of the Castro revolution in 1959, the Cuban government has been vigorously developing public health care, efforts to train medical personnel.
如今，古巴不仅搭建起了全民免费医疗的制度，其全国人均医生数量也位居世界前列，多个领域的医疗技术更是达到了世界先进水平。
Today, Cuba not only has a system of free medical care for all, but also one of the highest per capita doctors in the world, and medical technology in many fields has reached the world's advanced level.
”意大利新冠疫情大范围爆发已经整整一个月，但至今，该国的确诊及死亡人数仍在急剧增长。
A full month after the outbreak of the new crown of Italy, the number of confirmed cases and deaths in the country has risen sharply.
为支援意大利抗疫，中国已火速派出两批医疗专家组，并运送了数十吨医疗防疫物资和设备，俄罗斯与古巴也正在向意大利派遣医疗专家。
In support of the Italian epidemic, China has dispatched two groups of medical experts at a rapid pace and sent dozens of tons of medical epidemic prevention materials and equipment, while Russia and Cuba are also sending medical experts to Italy.
根据意大利民事保护部门发布的统计数据，截至当地时间3月21日18时，意大利累计确诊及死亡病例已升至53578例和4825例，较前一日新增6557例和793例，均为疫情发生以来单日最大增幅。
According to statistics released by the Italian Civil Protection Agency, the cumulative number of confirmed and fatal cases in Italy had risen to 53578 and 4,825 by 1800 hours local time on March 21, the highest daily increase since the outbreak, with 6,557 new cases and 793 new cases recorded the previous day.
为防止疫情进一步蔓延，意大利3月10日起进入全国“封城”状态，12日起关闭全国除食品店和药店以外的所有商铺。
To prevent further spread of the epidemic, Italy on March 10 into a state of "closed" the country, 12 days after the closure of all stores except food stores and pharmacies.
但由于疫情没有得到有效遏制，意大利政府自21日起采取了更为严格的疫情防控措施。
But since the outbreak has not been effectively contained, the Italian government has taken more stringent measures to prevent and control the disease since 21.
总理孔特当晚通过社交媒体直播宣布，为应对二战以来的“最严峻危机”，全国将停止所有非必要的生产活动，在非必要情况下应实行远程办公，仅公共交通、物流、邮局、银行和食品生产行业维持正常营业和运转。
Prime Minister Conte announced in a live social media broadcast that night that in response to the "worst crisis" since World War II, the country would cease all non-essential production activities, and telecommuting would be used only for public transport, logistics, the post office, banking and food production.
目前，意大利的医院床位已十分紧张，医疗物资也严重不足。
Hospitals in Italy are already stretched thin, and medical supplies are woefully inadequate.
据界面新闻此前报道，意大利卫生部19日公布的数据显示，在疫情最为严重的伦巴第大区，重症监护床位已占用了94%，几近饱和。
The most affected region, Lombardy, is close to saturation with 94 percent of beds under intensive care, Interface News reported earlier.
部分一线医疗机构只能放弃“先到先医”的原则，被迫根据病情来选择患者。
Some first-line medical institutions can only abandon the "first come, first served" principle and are forced to choose patients according to their conditions.
为缓解医疗资源紧张情况，意大利已于21日下午在伦巴第大区克雷莫纳市启用了首家帐篷医院。
In order to ease the shortage of medical resources, Italy opened its first tent hospital on the afternoon of 21 May in the city of Cremona, Lombardy.
这家仅用36小时建成的医院由15个帐篷组成，拥有68个床位，包括8个重症监护床位。
The 36-hour hospital consists of 15 tents with 68 beds, including eight intensive care beds.
军队同时也正在该区的贝尔加莫市和克雷马市加紧建设两家帐篷医院。
The army is also stepping up the construction of two tent hospitals in Bergamo and Kraema municipalities in the district.
克雷莫纳市的帐篷医院 来源：安莎通讯社为支援意大利抗疫，中国第二批赴意医疗专家组已于18日抵达米兰，并随机携带了呼吸机、双通道输液泵、监护仪、检测试剂等9吨中方捐助的医疗物资。
In support of the Italian epidemic, a second batch of medical experts from China arrived in Milan on the 18th carrying 9 tons of medical supplies donated by the Chinese side, including respirators, two-channel infusion pumps, monitors and detection reagents.
这批专家组成员来自浙江省卫健委及相关医疗机构，共13人。
The group was composed of 13 members from the Zhejiang Healthy & Fitness Commission and related medical institutions.
此前，中国首批抗疫医疗专家组一行9人已于12日携带31吨医疗防疫物资和设备抵达罗马。
Earlier, China's first anti-epidemic medical team of nine people on the 12 tons of medical supplies and equipment arrived in Rome.
专家组成员主要来自国家卫健委、中国红十字会、四川大学华西医院等医疗机构，是继支援伊朗、伊拉克之后，中国派出的第三支专家团队。
Expert group members mainly come from national health committee, Chinese Red Cross, Sichuan University, Huaxi Hospital and other medical institutions, is the third Chinese expert group sent after supporting Iran and Iraq.
意大利红十字会会长罗卡（Francesco Rocca）表示，中国专家组是第一批抵达意大利的国际援助者。
Francesco Rocca, head of the Italian Red Cross, said the group was the first international donor to arrive in Italy.
由于医疗资源短缺，意大利此前曾呼吁启动欧盟民事保护机制，伦巴第大区也主动请求中国、古巴和委内瑞拉派遣医疗团队支援。
Because of the shortage of medical resources, Italy had previously called for the activation of the European Union civil protection mechanism, and the Lombardy region had offered to send medical teams to China, Cuba and Venezuela.
但在中国作出回应前，没有一个欧盟国家响应意大利的呼吁。
But none of the EU countries responded to Italy's call before China responded.
而在中国火速驰援后，俄罗斯与古巴本周末也向意大利派遣医疗专家。
Russia and Cuba also sent medical experts to Italy this weekend after China rushed to the rescue.
古巴21日应伦巴第大区的要求，向当地派遣了一支52人的医疗团队。
At the request of the Lombardy region, Cuba dispatched a 52-member medical team to the area on 21 December.
据路透社报道，这是古巴首次向意大利派遣医疗团队，也是古巴自全球疫情爆发以来派出的第六支医疗团队。
It was the first time Cuba had sent a medical team to Italy and the sixth since the global outbreak, Reuters reported.
此前，该国已支援过委内瑞拉、尼加拉瓜、牙买加、苏里南、格林纳达五个拉美地区国家。
Previously, it had supported five Latin American countries: Venezuela, Nicaragua, Jamaica, Suriname and Grenada.
古巴首都哈瓦那，即将启程前往伦巴第的古巴医疗队。
Cuban medical team heading for Lombardy, Havana, Cuba.
来源：PM News Nigeria自1959年卡斯特罗革命成功以来，古巴政府就一直在大力发展公共医疗，努力培养医护人员，在此过程中，苏联提供了许多经济援助。
Source: PM News Nigeria. Since the success of the Castro revolution in 1959, the Government of Cuba has been working hard to develop public health care and to train medical personnel, with much economic assistance from the Soviet Union.
如今，古巴不仅搭建起了全民免费医疗的制度，其全国人均医生数量也位居世界前列，多个领域的医疗技术更是达到了世界先进水平。
Today, Cuba not only has a system of free medical care for all, but also one of the highest per capita doctors in the world, and medical technology in many fields has reached the world's advanced level.
而随着国内培育出大批医护人员，遭美国长期贸易禁运封锁的古巴也开始“出口”医疗，以换取石油和外汇，“医疗外交”逐渐成为其外交政策的一大特色。
And, with large numbers of health-care workers in the country, Cuba, blocked by the long-standing US trade embargo, has begun to "export" health care in exchange for oil and foreign exchange, making "medical diplomacy" a feature of its foreign policy.
与此同时，古巴也一直在向贫困国家提供医疗支援。
At the same time, Cuba has been providing medical support to poor countries.
近年，在海地霍乱和西非埃博拉抗疫前线，也都能看到古巴医生的身影。
In recent years, Cuban doctors have also been seen on the front lines of cholera in Haiti and Ebola in West Africa.
68岁的古巴重症医学专家莱昂纳多·费尔南德斯（Leonardo Fernandez）就是其中一员。
Leonardo Fernandez, a 68-year-old Cuban specialist in severe medicine, is one of them.
费尔南德斯此前曾赴利比里亚协助抗击埃博拉疫情，周六，他又再次踏上了前往意大利的征途，这也是他第八次参与援外行动。
Fernandez, who previously traveled to Liberia to help fight the Ebola outbreak, set out on Saturday for Italy's eighth foreign aid mission.
“我们也有顾虑，但革命义务等待着我们去完成，因此我们将恐惧置之脑后，”费尔南德斯对路透社说，“如果有人说自己不害怕，那他一定是超级英雄，但我们不是超级英雄，我们是革命医生。
"We also have concerns, but the revolutionary duty is up to us, so we ignore the fear," Fernandez told Reuters. "If someone says he's not afraid, he must be a superhero, but we're not superheroes, we're revolutionary doctors.
”面对来势汹汹的新冠疫情，古巴国内已是严阵以待。
Cuba is bracing for a new crown in the face of a furious new outbreak.
该国已于20日宣布，将自24日起对非本国居民关闭边境。
On the 20th, it announced that it would close its borders to non-residents as of 24 August.
截至20日，古巴已累计确诊病例21例，死亡1例。
As at 20 June, Cuba had a cumulative total of 21 confirmed cases and 1 case of death.
另据俄罗斯卫星通讯社报道，俄罗斯将向意大利派遣8支由军队的病毒学家和医疗人员组成的队伍，并将运送气溶胶消毒设备及其他医用设备。
Russia will send eight teams of virologists and medical personnel from the army to Italy and will deliver aerosol disinfection equipment and other medical equipment, the Russian satellite news agency reported.
据悉，意大利防长圭里尼已证实，自3月22日起接收俄罗斯携载专家和设备的飞机。
Italian Defence Minister Güellini is understood to have confirmed receiving Russian aircraft carrying experts and equipment since March 22.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
中国驰援意大利后，这个被美国制裁的国家也出手相助。
After China bailed out Italy, the country that was sanctioned by the United States helped.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "中国驰援意大利后，这个被美国制裁的国家也出手相助";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "自1959年卡斯特罗革命成功以来，古巴政府就一直在大力发展公共医疗，努力培养医护人员。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Cuba's government has worked hard to develop public health care and train health-care workers since the Castro revolution's success in 1959.
如今，古巴不仅搭建起了全民免费医疗的制度，其全国人均医生数量也位居世界前列，多个领域的医疗技术更是达到了世界先进水平。
Today, Cuba not only has a system of free medical care for all, but also one of the highest per capita doctors in the world, and medical technology in many fields has reached the world's advanced level.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
