《自然》杂志最新报道：冠状病毒轻症或无症状感染者约60%。
Nature magazine recently reported that about 60% of the coronavirus is mild or asymptomatic.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 财经涂鸦。
The following article comes from financial graffiti.
Author 公司情报专家。
Author Intelligence Specialist.
财经涂鸦。
Financial graffiti.
公司情报专家，关注账号获取一手情报。
Corporate intelligence experts, focus on the account for first-hand information.
编译：步摇 本文来源：财经涂鸦（ID：caijingtuya）“ 本文来自《自然》杂志3月20日刊登的报道。
Financial graffiti (ID: caijingtuya) "This article appears in the March 20 issue of the journal Nature.
”随着世界范围内冠状病毒的爆发激增，研究团队正在了解一个至关重要的流行病学难题，多少比例的受感染者有轻度或无症状，并可能将病毒传染给其他人。
With the worldwide outbreak of coronavirus soaring, the research team is understanding a crucial epidemiological challenge: what percentage of infected people are mildly or asymptomatic and may transmit the virus to others.
对这些隐藏病例的一些初步估计表明，它们可能占所有感染的约60％。
Some preliminary estimates of these hidden cases suggest that they may account for about 60 per cent of all infections.
许多科学家怀疑，由于没有越来越多的受感染者无法与已知的COVID-19病例相关联或没有前往疫区，因此存在未被发现的隐匿病例库，这些隐患病例仅限于无症状。
Many scientists suspect that since an increasing number of infected persons are not associated with known COVID-19 cases or do not travel to affected areas, there is an undetected reservoir of hidden cases, which are limited to asymptomatic cases.
大多数轻度感染者不会病得很重，无法寻求医疗救助，并且可能会跳过诸如温度检查之类的筛查方法，因此，这种现象的严重程度及其在病毒传播中的作用仍然难以捉摸。
The magnitude of the phenomenon and its role in the spread of the virus remain elusive, as most mildly infected persons are not too ill to seek medical assistance and may skip screening methods such as temperature testing.
明尼苏达州大学明尼阿波利斯市传染病研究与政策中心主任迈克尔·奥斯特霍尔姆说：“了解无症状或轻症病例的比例对我们来说真正重要的是要了解导致这种流行病的原因。
"Understanding the proportion of asymptomatic or mild cases is really important for us to understand the causes of the epidemic," said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis.
”这与试图了解未报告病例数的小组有所不同，这些病例是由于当局未进行足够的测试而遗漏的病例，或者是人们正在孵育病毒但尚未表现出症状的“临床前病例”。
This is different from groups that try to understand the number of unreported cases, which are cases left out by insufficient testing by the authorities, or "pre-clinical cases" where people are incubating the virus but have yet to show symptoms.
为了评估隐性感染的程度，中美两国的研究人员利用来自湖北省暴发中心武汉市卫生委员会的26,000例实验室确认病例的临床数据开发了一种模型。
To assess the extent of hidden infections, researchers in China and the United States developed a model using clinical data from 26,000 laboratory-confirmed cases from the Wuhan Health Commission, an outbreak center in Hubei Province.
未发现的病例该组织在3月6日在线发布的预印本中表示，到2月18日，武汉地区共有37,400人患有这种病毒。
Undetected cases The group said in a pre-print released online on March 6 that 37,400 people in Wuhan had the virus by February 18.
这组作者说，大多数未报告的病例是那些症状轻微或没有症状但仍可能具有传染性的人。
The authors say the majority of unreported cases are among people with mild or no symptoms but who may still be contagious.
“根据我们的最保守的估计，至少有59％的被感染者是外出，没有经过测试并可能感染其他人。
"According to our most conservative estimates, at least 59 percent of those infected are out on the move, untested and potentially contagious.
”武汉华中科技大学公共卫生专家吴唐春说。
Wu Tang Chun, a public health expert at Wuhan Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
“这也许可以解释为什么这种病毒在湖北如此迅速地传播并在世界范围内传播。
"This may explain why the virus spread so quickly in Hubei province and around the world.
”伦敦卫生与热带医学学院的疾病建模师亚当·库查尔斯基（Adam Kucharski）说，研究小组的结果在以小得多的数据集为基础的其他几项研究的估计范围内。
Adam Kucharski, disease modeler at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said the team's results were within the estimates of several other studies based on much smaller datasets.
他说：“这是对我们拥有的最佳数据集的最新分析。
"This is the latest analysis of the best data sets we have," he said.
”但是该模型假定社区中的每个人都有与其他人接触的相同机会。
But the model assumes that everyone in the community has the same opportunities to interact with others.
实际上，“有更多机会与一小部分人，家人、朋友或同事进行互动”，位于亚特兰大的乔治亚州立大学的数学流行病学家Gerardo Chowell说。
In fact, "there are more opportunities to interact with a small group of people, family, friends or colleagues," says Gerardo Chowell, a mathematical epidemiologist at Georgia State University in Atlanta.
他说，假设混合均匀，该模型可能会高估传播率，并夸大轻度或无症状的感染数量。
Assuming even mixing, he said, the model might overestimate transmission and exaggerate the number of mildly or asymptomatic infections.
他说，但是结果是正确的。
'But the results are correct, 'he said.
越来越多的证据另一项研究调查了2月初从武汉撤离的565名日本公民，并对其病毒和症状进行了反复测试和监测。
A growing body of evidence Another study looked at 565 Japanese citizens evacuated from Wuhan in early February and repeatedly tested and monitored the virus and its symptoms.
在3月13日发表于《国际传染病杂志》上的一篇论文中，日本的一个团队报告说，有13位疏散者被感染，其中4人（占31％）从未出现症状。
In a March 13 paper published in the International Journal of Infectious Diseases, a Japanese team reported that 13 evacuees had been infected, four of whom (31 per cent) had never had symptoms.
乔威尔说，但是关于无症状病例的最有据可查的证据可能来自钻石公主号邮轮，该船在2月初在日本海域爆发了COVID-19。
But the best-documented evidence of asymptomatic cases could come from the MV Princess Diamond, which broke out in early February off the coast of Japan with COVID-19.
该船已被隔离，对3,711名乘客和船员进行了反复测试和严密监视。
The vessel was isolated and subjected to repeated tests and close surveillance of 3,711 passengers and crew.
Chowell的模型研究3于3月12日在Eurosurveillance上发表，结果显示Diamond Princess上约700名受感染的人中约有18％从未表现出症状。
Chowell's model study, published in Eurosurvey on March 12, showed that about 18 percent of the roughly 700 people infected on Diamond Princess never showed symptoms.
乔威尔说：“您必须记住，这是一个特殊的人群”，有很多老年人。
"You have to remember that this is a special group," says Gowell. There are a lot of elderly people.
老年人感染新的冠状病毒后往往会会重症，因此他怀疑普通人群的无症状感染率可能接近日本团队报告的31％。
He suspects asymptomatic infection rates in the general population may be close to the 31 percent reported by the Japanese team.
考虑到几项研究的结果，Chowell认为无症状或轻度病例合并占所有感染的约40％至50％。
Taking into account the results of several studies, Chowell believes that asymptomatic or mild cases together account for about 40 to 50 per cent of all infections.
病毒脱落但是症状轻或无症状的人会感染他人吗？在3月8日发布的预印本研究中，一个德国团队发现一些COVID-19的人在疾病初期症状很轻时，其咽拭子中的病毒水平很高，这意味着该病原体很容易被释放，研究人员说，通过咳嗽或打喷嚏（称为病毒脱落）并传播给他人。
In a pre-print study released March 8, a German team found that some people with COVID-19 had high levels of the virus in their swabs when their initial symptoms were mild, meaning the pathogen could easily be released and spread to others by coughing or sneezing, the researchers said.
中国的另一个研究小组在17名COVID-19患者中发现了高病毒载量。
Another team in China found a high viral load in 17 COVID-19 patients.
此外，研究人员昨天在《新英格兰医学杂志》上报道，另一位受感染的人从未出现症状，但传播了与那些人相似的病毒。
In addition, the researchers reported yesterday in the New England Journal of Medicine that another infected person had never developed symptoms but had spread a virus similar to those people.
奥斯特霍尔姆说，这些是对该疾病不同阶段病毒脱落程度的首次详细分析。
Osterholm says these are the first detailed analyses of how much the virus has shrunk at different stages of the disease.
他说，这些数据证实了许多科学家的怀疑：某些感染者“在症状轻或无症状时可能具有高度传染性”。
He said the data confirm the suspicions of many scientists that certain infections "can be highly contagious when the symptoms are mild or asymptomatic."
但他强调，问题的严重程度仍不清楚。
He stressed, however, that the magnitude of the problem remained unclear.
许多科学家担心，这也可能导致儿童对这种病毒的敏感性被低估。
Many scientists fear that this could also lead to children being undersensitive to the virus.
对中国700多名受感染儿童的一项研究发现，有56％的儿童出现轻度或无症状。
A study of more than 700 infected children in China found that 56 per cent had mild or no symptoms.
研究人员说，如果研究结果成立，就需要采取紧急措施遏制助长大流行的轻度和无症状病例。
If the results are true, the researchers say urgent measures need to be taken to halt the mild and asymptomatic cases that fuel a pandemic.
他们呼吁关闭学校，取消公共聚会，并通常将人们留在家中和公共场所之外。
They have called for the closure of schools and the cancellation of public gatherings, often leaving people out of their homes and public places.
乔威尔说：“采取有力的社会隔离措施是阻止病毒传播的唯一途径。
"Strong social isolation is the only way to stop the virus from spreading," he said.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
《自然》杂志最新报道：冠状病毒轻症或无症状感染者约60%。
Nature magazine recently reported that about 60% of the coronavirus is mild or asymptomatic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "《自然》杂志最新报道：冠状病毒轻症或无症状感染者约60%";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "本文来自《自然》杂志3月20日刊登的报道。
var msg _ desc = & quot; This is a report in Nature March 20.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
