无症状感染者是否具有传染性？ 如何管理、救治？。
Does asymptomatic infect have infectivity? How to manage, cure?
新华社。
Xinhua News Agency.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
来源：新华社“新华视点” | 秦交锋、熊言豪、刘宏宇、侯文坤“ 第六版防控方案指出，无症状感染者也可成为传染源。
Source: Xinhua News Agency's "Xinhua perspective" & # 160; Qin confrontation, Xiong Yun-hao, Liu Hongyu, Hou Wenkun. "The sixth edition of the program says asymptomatic infections can also be a source of infection.
那么，对于无症状感染者后续应如何管理、救治？”根据武汉市卫健委发布的新冠肺炎疫情动态，3月19日，武汉新增确诊病例为零。
Then, how should asymptomatic infection follow-up how should manage, cure? "According to Wuhan city health committee released the new crown pneumonia epidemic dynamics, March 19, Wuhan, the number of new confirmed cases is zero.
3月20日，网上流传的一份“公示”显示，19日硚口区一小区有一新增确诊病例，引发对武汉确诊病例是否为零的争议。
A new case was confirmed in a district of Zedou district on March 20, sparking a dispute over whether the confirmed case in Wuhan is zero, according to a public notice circulated on the Internet.
硚口区防控指挥部回应称，网传患者张某某，系无症状感染者，不是确诊病例。
Zhangkou District Control Command responded that the network transmission patients Zhang, is asymptomatic infected, not confirmed cases.
“新华视点”记者对此进行了追踪。
"Xinhua point of view" reporters to follow up on this.
回应：核酸检测结果阳性，却不是确诊病例22日凌晨，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部涉疫大数据和流行病学调查组对“玫瑰西园社区新增2例确诊病例”“丽水康城小区又有新增病例”“同济医院新增100多例新冠确诊病例”“放鹰台社区一刘姓婆婆在省人民医院就诊推诿”等四则网传案例做出情况说明。
Response: Nucleic acid positive results, but not confirmed cases 22 dawn, Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Command Data and Epidemiological Investigation Team "the Rose West Park Community There are more than 100 new cases of confirmed cases" "Tongji Hospital with more than 100 new confirmed cases of new crown"
其中，关于“丽水康城小区又有新增病例”的回应是：经查，小区居民张某某为无症状感染者，根据《国家卫健委办公厅关于印发新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第六版）的通知》，非确诊病例。
Among them, "Yishui Kangcheng District there are new cases" the response is: After investigation, residents Zhang is asymptomatic infected, according to the "National Health Commission Office of the issuance of a new-style coronavirus pneumonia (version 6) notice," non-diagnosed cases.
网上流传一张截图显示，硚口区韩家墩街综合社区3月20日发布一份公示，截至3月19日24时，丽水康城小区12栋新增1人确诊患者。
A screenshot showed that 12 new patients were diagnosed in the Kangcheng district of Yeosu as of 2400 on March 19, according to a screenshot released on the Internet.
记者20日晚走访该社区，向社区书记陶正太求证网传内容是否属实。
The reporter 20 evening visits this community, to the community secretary Tao Zhengtai verification network biography content is true.
陶正太表示，这份公示的确是社区发布的。
Tao said the announcement was indeed made by the community.
记者追问是否有证据表明有1例新增病例，陶正太向记者展示一张网络截图，并表示这是“健康武汉”App上新增确诊病例的核酸检测结果。
Asked if there was evidence of a new case, Tao Zheng-tai showed reporters a screenshot of the network, saying it was the result of a nucleic acid test on the newly confirmed case on the "healthy Wuhan" App.
记者注意到，这名张姓患者63岁，有两次核酸检测：第一次采样时间为3月17日，送样机构为武汉市肺科医院，检测结果为阴性；第二次采样时间为3月18日，送样机构为速8酒店隔离点，检测结果为阳性。
Zhang, a 63-year-old patient, had two nucleic acid tests: the first was taken on March 17 and tested negative at Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital. The second sample was taken on March 18.
陶正太解释，这名张姓患者原本是就医诊治脖子肿大，核酸检测排查发现阳性结果。
Tao Zhengtai explained that Zhang had been treated for neck swelling, nucleic acid screening found positive results.
3月19日晚接到排查结果通知后在小区公示新增1例确诊病例，提醒居民注意安全防护。
March 19 after receiving notification of the results of screening in the community to announce a new case of confirmed cases, remind residents to pay attention to safety protection.
20日，硚口区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部回应称，经全面调查，韩家墩街综合社区丽水康城小区居民张某某，因淋巴结肿块（大脖子病）去医院就诊，体温正常，无发热咳嗽等症状。
20, Zhengkou District New Crown Pneumonia Command response, after a comprehensive investigation, Han Jiatun Street comprehensive community Lishui Kangcheng residential area Zhang, because of lymph node lump (neck disease) to the hospital, normal body temperature, no fever cough and other symptoms.
新冠筛查第一次核酸结果为阴性。
The first Nucleic Acid Screening results were negative.
3月19日第二次核酸检测结果为阳性，并收治入院。
On 19 March, the second nucleic acid test was positive and admitted to hospital.
根据《国家卫健委办公厅关于印发新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第六版）的通知》，张某某系无症状感染者，不是确诊病例。
Zhang is asymptomatic and is not a confirmed case, according to the Notice of the National Health and Wellness Commission on the Issuance of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Programme (6th Edition).
3月20日再次采集患者痰拭子、咽拭子，核酸检测均为阴性。
On 20 March, sputum swab and pharyngeal swab were collected again and the nucleic acid tests were negative.
硚口区新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部回应称，因3月19日晚社区了解到张某某第二次核酸检测结果为阳性，误认为其是确诊患者，为提醒社区居民做好居家防控、提高警惕，在小区内发出了通知。
The Zhengkou District New Crown Pneumonia Control Command responded that because the community learned March 19 Zhang positive second nucleic acid test results, mistakenly believe that it is a confirmed patient, in order to alert the community to home control, improve vigilance, issued a notice in the small district.
3月20日下午，社区已向小区居民解释其不是确诊患者。
In the afternoon of 20 March, the community explained to the residents that it was not a confirmed patient.
防控方案：疑似病例、确诊病例、无症状感染者等分别单列记者查阅新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第六版），监测定义条款中将疑似病例、确诊病例、无症状感染者等分别单列，其中对无症状感染者的定义为：无临床症状，呼吸道等标本新型冠状病毒病原学或血清特异性IgM抗体检测阳性者。
Prevention and Control Programme: Suspected cases, confirmed cases, asymptomatic infection, etc., separate reporters to check the new coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control programme (6th edition), monitoring the definition of cases of suspected cases, confirmed cases, asymptomatic infection, defined as: no clinical symptoms, respiratory specimens and other new coronavirus pathogenomics or serum-specific IgM antibody positive.
在硚口区防控指挥部的回应中，张某某“体温正常，无发热咳嗽等症状”，第二次核酸检测阳性。
In the Zhangkou District Command response, Zhang "normal temperature, no fever cough and other symptoms," the second nucleic acid test positive.
根据第六版防控方案，“张某某系无症状感染者，不是确诊病例”。
According to the sixth edition of the prevention and control plan, "Zhang Department asymptomatic infection, not confirmed cases."
记者进一步调查发现，第六版防控方案在报告订正相关条款中还规定，无症状感染者如出现临床表现，及时订正为确诊病例。
Further investigation found that the sixth version of the prevention and control plan in the revised provisions of the report also provides that asymptomatic infected persons if clinical manifestations, timely revised as a confirmed case.
第六版防控方案对确诊病例临床表现的描述有三条：发热和/或呼吸道症状；具有新冠肺炎影像学特征；发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，淋巴细胞计数正常或减少。
Version 6 describes the clinical manifestations of confirmed cases in three ways: fever and / or respiratory symptoms; imaging features of new crown pneumonia; normal or decreased leukocyte counts and normal or reduced lymphocyte counts in the early stages of onset.
记者注意到，硚口区防控指挥部的回应中，只提及张某某没有第一条临床表现，没有提及是否有后两条临床表现。
Reporter noted that the Zhangkou District Control Command response, only mentioned Zhang did not have the first clinical manifestation, did not mention whether there are the last two clinical manifestations.
陶正太介绍，张某某的两个密切接触者，目前已经进入酒店集中隔离观察。
Tao Zhengtai, Zhang's two close contacts, has now entered the hotel to focus on isolation observation.
记者追踪调查武汉市近期几个新增确诊病例，发现临床表现上有的患者同张某某一样，没有发热咳嗽等症状，但由于CT检查结果显示肺部有感染，被计入确诊病例。
The reporter followed up several newly confirmed cases in Wuhan, and found that some patients had the same clinical manifestation as Zhang, did not have fever and cough symptoms, but CT findings showed pulmonary infection, was counted as a confirmed case.
比如，武昌区15日一个新增确诊病例，排查发现血清抗体阳性，患者没有发热、咳嗽等症状，CT检查肺部少许感染。
For example, Wuchang District on the 15th, a new confirmed case, found positive serum antibody, the patient did not have fever, cough and other symptoms, CT examination of the lungs a few infections.
专家建议进一步加强对无症状感染者的监测与隔离硚口区发现的无症状感染者并非个例。
Experts recommend that surveillance of asymptomatic infections be further strengthened and that isolation of asymptomatic infections found in such areas should not be an exception.
武汉市一家医院感染科主任介绍，该院排查医务工作人员，发现两例无症状感染者，核酸检测结果阳性，实际并未有任何症状。
The director of infection department of a hospital in Wuhan said the hospital screened medical staff and found two cases of asymptomatic infection with positive nucleic acid test results and no symptoms.
国家卫健委前方工作组防控组专家吴浩曾表示，也可能有一些散在的病例在社区，因为有一部分无症状感染者，或潜伏期较长的患者，在这方面要做好相关预案。
Wu Hao, an expert on prevention and control at the National Health Commission's Forward Working Group, said there may also be sporadic cases in the community, as some asymptomatic infections, or patients with longer latency periods, should be prepared in this regard.
记者查阅武汉市每天发布的新冠疫情动态，其中有疑似病例、确诊病例等统计数据，但并没有无症状感染者的相关数据。
The reporter reviewed the daily situation of the new crown in Wuhan city, among which there are statistics on suspected cases and confirmed cases, but there are no statistics on asymptomatic infected persons.
第六版防控方案中提到，无症状感染者主要通过密切接触者筛查、聚集性疫情调查和传染源追踪调查等途径发现。
The sixth edition of the prevention and control programme mentions that asymptomatic infections are mainly detected through close contact screening, concentrated epidemic investigations and source tracing investigations.
记者近日追踪调查武汉市前期几个新增确诊病例的密接人员，发现其中排查出了个别核酸阳性案例，实际未计入确诊病例。
Reporters recently followed up several newly confirmed cases in early Wuhan city, found that the screening of a few nucleic acid positive cases, the actual case did not count.
第六版防控方案指出，无症状感染者也可成为传染源。
The sixth edition of the prevention and control programme points out that asymptomatic infections can also become a source of infection.
那么，对于无症状感染者后续应如何管理、救治？武汉市一位感染科医生介绍，无症状感染并非新冠肺炎病毒的独有现象。
So how to manage and treat asymptomatic infections? An infectious doctor in Wuhan City said asymptomatic infection is not unique to the new crown pneumonia virus.
事实上，大多数传染病都分为显性感染、隐性感染。
In fact, most infectious diseases are classified as dominant or recessive.
对于新冠病毒的无症状感染者，目前采取的是隔离等积极防控政策。
For the asymptomatic infection of new crown virus, the active control policy such as isolation is adopted at present.
金银潭医院副院长黄朝林介绍，在实际救治工作中，发现无症状感染者后首先要隔离，防止其成为传染源。
Huang Chaolin, vice-dean of the gold and silver pool hospital, said that in practice, people with asymptomatic infection should be isolated first to prevent it from becoming a source of infection.
由于他们只是病毒携带者，没有症状，一般不会对其进行治疗，最多开点抗病毒药。
As they are only carriers of the virus, there are no symptoms, they are generally not treated, the most anti-viral drugs.
多位医生认为，此前疫情严重的时候，防控和医疗资源主要向确诊、疑似、密接人群倾斜。
Many doctors believe that when the previous outbreak of severe, prevention and treatment resources mainly to the diagnosis, suspected, dense crowd tilt.
随着当前疫情进入新阶段，为巩固抗疫成果，防范疫情反弹风险，应高度重视无症状感染者的问题，把进一步加强监测、隔离纳入未来的工作重点中。
As the current epidemic enters a new phase, in order to consolidate the achievements and prevent the risk of epidemic rebound, we should attach great importance to the problem of asymptomatic infection and incorporate further surveillance and isolation into our future work priorities.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无症状感染者是否具有传染性？ 如何管理、救治？。
Does asymptomatic infect have infectivity? How to manage, cure?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "无症状感染者是否具有传染性？ 如何管理、救治？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Was the asymptomatic infection contagious? How was it managed and treated?;
var msg_desc = "第六版防控方案指出，无症状感染者也可成为传染源。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the sixth edition of the program says asymptomatic infections can also be a source of infection.
那么，对于无症状感染者后续应如何管理、救治？";。
So, how should asymptomatic infection follow up management, cure? & quot;;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
