探访“滞留群”：出游回不了家的武汉人，你们还好吗？。
Visit the "detention group": the Wuhan people who can not travel home, how are you?
林春挺。
Lin Chunqing.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
28.01.2020本文字数：3781，阅读时长大约7分钟导读：无法回家的湖北人在各个群里诉说自己的遭遇，也开始抱团取暖。
2008-09-04 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10: 30 2008-10-10 15: 55: 50: 50: 000.01.2020: 3781, about 7 minutes of reading: Hubei people who cannot go home tell about their experiences in various groups and start to get warm.
作者 | 第一财经林春挺2020年1月24日，农历除夕，张嘉佳在自己的微信朋友圈上这样写道：“请原谅实在没有心情给大家一一拜年了，我和家人被困在外地，正在想办法如何解决。
"Forgive me for not being in the mood to pay a New Year call to all of you. My family and I are stuck in the cold and trying to figure out how to solve it," Zhang wrote on Chinese New Year's Eve on 24 January 2020.
”张嘉佳今年38岁，武汉人。
Zhang Jiajia, 38, is from Wuhan.
1月19日，她带着10岁的儿子和父母从武汉飞到三亚，准备过一个愉快的假期，然后在1月23日午后飞回武汉。
She flew from Wuhan on January 19 with her 10-year-old son and parents to Sanya for a good holiday before flying back to Wuhan on the afternoon of January 23.
但武汉突然宣布“封城”，这一家四口不得不滞留下来。
But Wuhan suddenly announced the "closure", the family of four had to stay.
由于春节期间，三亚许多餐馆已经暂停营业，大年初二，她一家四口一人吃了一碗泡面。
During the Spring Festival, many restaurants in Sanya have been closed. On the second day of the Lunar New Year, her family of four ate a bowl of noodles.
遭遇类似的情况并非张嘉佳一家。
A similar situation is not affecting the Jia Jia Zhang family.
1月26日，大年初二这一天，第一财经记者加入了6个微信群，这些群里聚集着数百个出游在外无法回家的湖北人，其中以武汉人为主，大部分人都拖家带口。
On January 26, the New Year's Day, the first financial reporter joined a group of six micro-credit groups, which gathered hundreds of Hubei people can not go home, mainly Wuhan, most of the people are accompanied by their families.
他们在接受第一财经记者采访时表示，这些天来，他们受到了异样的待遇与目光，许多酒店不敢、不愿接待他们，以至于无处可去。
In an interview with leading financial reporters, they said they have been treated differently these days and many hotels are afraid and unwilling to accept them and have nowhere else to go.
他们目前的主要诉求是，各地能够把他们安置好。
Their main demand now is that the localities be able to put them in place.
“能有酒店收留就很幸福”从事会展工作的张嘉佳现在想回家。
"Can have the hotel to take in very happy" engaged in convention and exhibition work Zhang Jiajia now wants to go home.
武汉封城的政策出台后，她打算带着孩子和父母亲从三亚飞往杭州，再从杭州飞到恩施。
Wuhan after the introduction of the policy, she intends to take children and parents from Sanya to Hangzhou, then fly from Hangzhou to Enshi.
但随着疫情不断升级，湖北封闭导致他们至今只能滞留三亚。
But as the epidemic continued to escalate, Hubei closed to them so far only in Sanya.
在滞留的这些天里，张嘉佳一个人带着一家老小三天搬了三个地方。
During these days of detention, Zhang Jiajia moved to three places alone with her family for three days.
“由于恐慌，当地人对我们有些担心，昨晚好不容易找到地方落脚，却因为周边邻居报警而又被赶了出来。
"The locals, worried about us because of the panic, found a place to stay last night but were turned away because their neighbors called the police.
”1月26日，她在接受第一财经记者采访时说。
In an interview with leading financial reporters on January 26, she said.
后来，张嘉佳找到了一家民宿。
Later, Zhang Jiajia found a home.
民宿的老板发现张嘉佳一家子在相关防护措施方面做得到位，而且看上去很健康，于是答应接待他们。
The landlords, finding the Jia-Jia family well-positioned and looking healthy, agreed to receive them.
事实上，在这些“滞留群”里，找民宿是大家分享的其中一个经验——如果实在无处可去，就找民宿，相对来说，民宿的管理没有酒店严格，不少地方都会接收。
In fact, finding lodgings is one of the experiences shared among these "stranded groups" - finding lodgings if there is no place to go, which is relatively less stringent than that of hotels and can be accepted in many places.
这家民宿的其他人却对张嘉佳一家的到来，提高了警惕。
The other residents of the house, however, increased their vigilance at the arrival of the Zhang Jiajia family.
很快，张嘉佳就被举报了。
Soon, Zhang Jiajia was reported.
还好，民宿老板顶住了压力，让她一家人住了下来。
Fortunately, the landlady managed to resist the pressure and let her family live down.
“他当时的一句话，让我的眼泪都流下来了，他说，在这种危难的时候，应该帮忙！”张嘉佳对第一财经记者说。
"His words at that time, let my tears flow down, he said, in this time of crisis, should help!" Zhang Jiajia told the first financial reporter.
随后，张嘉佳所入住的民宿所在村庄的村委会相关负责人也找了上来，对他们进行相关的登记和检查，并劝导说：“要做好防护措施，不要乱跑。
Subsequently, Zhang Jiajia residential village where the relevant village committee leaders also came up, to register and check them, and advised: "Take protective measures, do not run.
”张嘉佳认为这种做法是对的。
Zhang Jiajia thinks this is the right thing to do.
为更好地打好这场疫情防控战役，1月25日，海南省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作指挥部发表的《致有武汉旅居史的来琼人员的一封公开信》提出倡议，有武汉旅居史的来琼人员及时到所居住生活的政府部门（街道、乡镇）报备相关信息。
In order to better combat the epidemic, on January 25, the Hainan New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Control Command issued an open letter to Wuhan residents of the history of the initiative, Qiong personnel living in Wuhan in a timely manner to the government departments (streets, townships) where they live to report relevant information.
根据公开信，自今年1月10日以来，有武汉旅居史的来琼人员，要填报来琼的时间、车次（车牌、航班号）、车厢及座位号和手机号码，近期（抵琼后14日内）大致活动范围和接触人员范围。
According to the open letter, since January 10 this year, Wuhan residents of Qiong staff, to report on the time, number (license plate, flight number), carriage and seat number and mobile phone number, recent (14 days after arrival) general scope of activities and the range of contacts.
同时，要及时帮助随行的老人、未成年人、障碍人士提供上述信息，并及时通知同行人员。
At the same time, we should promptly help the elderly, minors and disabled people to provide the above-mentioned information, and timely notify their counterparts.
在这几天的遭遇中，最让张嘉佳放心不下的是孩子和父母。
In the past few days of the encounter, the most let Zhang Jiajia worry about the children and parents.
“我还年轻，对于一些异样的待遇和眼光，身心还能够扛得住，但是孩子和父母，很难扛。
"I'm young, and I can handle the odd treatment and vision, physically and mentally, but it's hard for children and parents to carry.
”来自武汉的陈芳芳在广东珠海也遇到了类似的问题。
Chen Fangfang, from Wuhan, has encountered similar problems in Zhuhai, Guangdong.
在武汉疫情爆发之前，陈芳芳和老公带着才两岁的孩子来到珠海长隆，但原本一次轻松而愉快的私人之旅最后被彻底打破了。
Before the outbreak of the Wuhan epidemic, Chen and her husband came to Zhuhai with their two-year-old baby, but what was once a relaxing and enjoyable private trip was completely disrupted.
前几天，她所入住的酒店工作人员告诉她，根据相关部门的要求，他们不能再酒店继续住下去了，需要到定点的酒店去，但当他们来到定点的酒店之后就被告知，酒店暂时不能接待他们。
The other day, she was told by the hotel staff that they could no longer stay at the hotel and needed to go to the designated hotel, but when they arrived at the designated hotel, they were told that the hotel could not accommodate them for the time being.
其中，一家定点的酒店告诉她：“我们这里不是收容所。
One of the designated hotels told her, "We're not a shelter here.
”“我们不得不又返回了原来所住的那家酒店，他们当时不同意，但我老公据理力争，终于住下来了。
"We had to go back to the hotel where we had stayed. They didn't agree, but my husband managed to stay.
”陈芳芳说，“我很担心的是，接下来会不会再次驱逐？”直到1月27日，陈芳芳才通过在珠海的武汉老乡获悉，珠海当地政府已经为武汉人安置了一家定点的酒店。
Only on January 27 did Chen Fang-fang learn from Wuhan villagers in Zhuhai that the local government in Zhuhai had set up a hotel designated for Wuhan people.
“如果没有老乡的告知，我都不知道这事儿，因为没有接到任何的官方消息的告知。
"I didn't know about it without my folks telling me, because I didn't get any official information.
”她说。
'she said.
在微信群里，滞留在珠海的武汉人说，有酒店“能收留就很幸福”。
In the micro-letter group, stranded in Zhuhai Wuhan people said that there is a hotel "can take in very happy."
寻找酒店的曲折路比张嘉佳和陈芳芳遭遇更多、更曲折的是吴理国。
The tortuous way to find a hotel is more and more tortuous than Zhang Jiajia and Chen Fangfang.
吴理国今年50岁，武汉人，在海南收购蔬菜，再运往武汉，因此常年来往于海南和武汉之间。
Wu, a 50-year-old native of Wuhan, buys vegetables in Hainan and transports them to Wuhan, so he travels between Hainan and Wuhan all year round.
2019年12月7日，他离开武汉来到海南。
On 7 December 2019, he left Wuhan for Hainan.
在武汉疫情爆发前，他让自己的妻儿从武汉到海口找自己团聚，住在海口的酒店里，并准备在除夕前一起回到武汉。
Before the outbreak of the Wuhan epidemic, he let his wife and children from Wuhan to Haikou find their own reunification, living in Haikou hotel, and ready to return to Wuhan before New Year's Eve.
疫情爆发后，他们接受了相关的身体检测，检测结果是，没问题。
After the outbreak, they underwent a physical test, and the test results were no problem.
“但到了1月25日，一切就全变了”他在接受第一财经记者采访时说。
"But by January 25, it all changed," he told the first financial reporter.
1月25日，海口市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室发布公告称：“鉴于当前湖北武汉等地区发生严重新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情……经研究决定自2020年1月25日12时起，对来自湖北尤其是武汉的过海登岛旅客进行集中医学观察14天，集中医学观察地点为海口市海秀西路46号海南兵工大酒店，集中医学观察期间旅客只能在酒店范围内活动，严禁离开酒店。
On January 25, 2007, the Office of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of Coronavirus Infection against Coronavirus in Haikou City issued a notice saying: "In view of the current serious outbreak of coronavirus pneumonia in Hubei Province and other areas, the focus of medical observation is the Hainan Military Industrial Hotel, 46 Hainan Road.
”为了不被“集中医学观察”，1月26日，吴理国一家三口从海口驱车前往琼海，不断找酒店。
To avoid intensive medical observation, three members of the Wu family drove to Qionghai from Haikou on January 26 to search for a hotel.
每一家酒店的回复几乎都是一模一样的：“你们是哪里人？”吴理国的回答是：“我们说是湖北人，是武汉人。
The responses from almost every hotel were almost identical: "Where are you from?" Wu replied, "We say Hubei people are Wuhan people.
”对此，酒店的回复是：“对不起，我们不接待。
"To which the hotel responded," I'm sorry, we don't serve.
”就这样，吴理国一直在寻找一家可以入住的酒店，无果。
"So, Wu has been looking for a hotel to stay in, to no avail.
于是，他改变了策略，驱车前往邻近海口和琼海的文昌，找那家自己经常入住的酒店。
So he changed his tactics and drove to Wenchang, near Haikou and Qionghai, to find the hotel where he usually stayed.
在办理入住期间，酒店前台告诉他，按相关规定，湖北人身份证需要拍照提供给当地政府。
During the check-in, the front desk told him that Hubei identity cards needed to be photographed and provided to the local government in accordance with relevant regulations.
随后，吴理国就接到了当地政府一个工作人员的电话，在电话里，对方表示希望他能够理解。
Wu then received a phone call from a local government worker who said he wanted him to understand.
在电话沟通中，上述酒店服务员突然对吴理国说，按照规定，他们需要报警，并告诉他，他停靠在酒店的车已经成了“网红”，因为很多人都拍了照，并进行了举报。
In a telephone conversation, the hotel attendant suddenly told Mr. Wu that they were required to call the police and told him that his car, parked in the hotel, had become a "net red" because many had taken pictures and reported it.
该酒店的老板就给酒店服务员打了电话，很委婉地让吴理国离开酒店，以免影响酒店生意。
The owner of the hotel called the hotel attendant and gently told him to leave the hotel so as not to interfere with the hotel's business.
离开上述酒店之后，吴理国给琼海的一家五星级酒店打了电话，但对方的服务员告诉他，酒店目前无法确保给他入住，并向他提供另一家酒店的电话。
After leaving the hotel, Wu called a five-star hotel in Qiong Hai, but was told by a waiter that the hotel was not in a position to ensure his stay and provided him with a call from another hotel.
通过电话后，该酒店的服务员就告诉吴理国，让他到当地的公安机关开个证明，证明自己是在2019年12月7日从武汉到来海南的，只有这样酒店才能接待。
After the phone call, the hotel attendant told Wu to come to the local public security organ to provide a certificate that he had arrived in Hainan from Wuhan on December 7, 2019, which was the only way the hotel could receive him.
针对此事，吴理国向当地110进行询问，后者向他提供了一个派出所的电话，结果是，该派出所表示，这种证明需要到相关卫生部门开具。
In response, the State of Wu questioned the local 110, who provided him with a telephone number from a police station, as a result of which the police station indicated that such a certificate needed to be issued by the relevant health authorities.
无奈之下，吴理国带着妻儿来到了自己存放蔬菜的冷库，打算在车上过夜。
But Wu and his wife and children went to the cold storage of their vegetables, intended to spend the night in the car.
后来，他请求冷库方能够匀出一个房间。
Later, he asked the freezer to spare a room.
就这样，吴理国一家三口就住在该冷库厂的一个工棚里面。
In this way, three members of the Wu family lived in a shed at the cold storage plant.
▲吴理国一家三口住在冷库的工棚里“在这个危难之时，工人朋友们伸出了援助之手，我很欣慰。
WU Li's family of three live in a cold storage shed. "In this time of crisis, workers and friends extended a helping hand, I am pleased.
”吴理国对第一财经记者说，“当时，因为我和孩子都还没吃过饭，于是准备出去找饭吃，但因为外面下雨，大排挡都关门了，最后只能去超市买方便面和饼干吃。
"Neither my children nor I were ready to go out for dinner, but because it rained outside, the block closed and I ended up buying instant noodles and biscuits at the supermarket," Wu told the first financial reporter.
”但超市里的人看到吴理国开着来自武汉的车时，对方的第一反应是：“你们不要过来。
"But when people in the supermarket saw him driving a car from Wuhan, their first reaction was," Don't come here.
”于是，他们只能返回冷库所在地。
So they had to go back to the cold storage area.
最后，吴理国的搬运工人骑着一辆电动车，来到超市给他买了九桶方便面。
Finally, a porter from the State of Wu rode an electric car to the supermarket and bought him nine barrels of instant noodles.
2月26日晚上，大年初二，吴理国给第一财经记者发来了一张照片，照片上是一盘吃剩下的花生米。
On the evening of February 26, the State of Wu sent a photo to the first financial reporter, showing a plate of peanut left over.
“今天的晚餐，花生米和泡面，还是工人提供的。
"Today's dinner, peanut rice and noodles, is still provided by the workers.
”他说。
'he said.
目前，吴理国还在寻找一家能够欢迎他们的酒店。
At present, the State of Wu is still looking for a hotel to welcome them.
抱团取暖经历在外地的种种遭遇之后，以武汉为主的湖北人开始抱团取暖，纷纷组建了微信群。
Hubei people, mainly in Wuhan, started to get warm in groups and formed micro-faith groups.
1月26日，第一财经记者加入的6个微信群包括：“滞留海南”、“武汉人在北京”、“珠海漂流”、“在外回不来武汉抱团取暖群”等。
On January 26, the first financial reporter joined the six micro-groups, including: "stranded in Hainan," "Wuhan in Beijing," "Zhuhai drift," "Wuhan can not go back to Wuhan cluster heating groups.
在“滞留海南”微信群里，张嘉佳还在与群里的200多名湖北老乡商讨如何回到湖北的话题。
In the "stranded Hainan" micro-letter group, Zhang Jiajia is still in the group of more than 200 Hubei villagers to discuss how to return to the topic of Hubei.
其中一个话题是：是否可以包飞机回家？在群里，因为住宿、吃饭等问题，部分人员情绪激动。
One of the topics was: Can I take a plane home? Some people in the group are excited about accommodation, food, etc.
比如，有的说，我们是不是成为“弃婴”了？有的说，让我们一起努力，打完这场没有硝烟的战争。
For example, some people say that we have become "abandoned babies", some say, let's work together to fight the war without the smoke.
有的说，在这期间，一定要做好自我隔离，不能影响当地居民，全力配合当地政府的工作。
Some said that during this period, it is important to do a good job of self-isolation, can not affect the local residents, fully cooperate with the local government.
同样的问题，也出现在广东珠海。
The same problem also occurred in Zhuhai, Guangdong.
郭燕燕是微信群“珠海漂流”近百名成员中的一名成员，是武汉的一名旅游从业人员，她人不在珠海，但心系在外地的武汉人。
Guo Yanyan is one of nearly 100 members of the micro-group Zhuhai Drifting. She is a travel worker in Wuhan. She is not in Zhuhai, but her heart is tied to a native Wuhan.
她在接受第一财经记者采访时说，看到也接触到许多武汉人回不了家，没地方住，心里很不是滋味。
In an interview with the first financial reporter, she said that she also met many Wuhan people can not go home, there is no place to live, the heart is very uncomfortable.
“昨天还是我让他们报警打市长热线才安置了，当然，珠海政府是很给力的。
"Yesterday I also asked them to call the mayor's hotline to install, of course, Zhuhai government is very strong.
”郭燕燕说。
"said Guo Yanyan.
但也有一些人则表示，在个别地方，他们打了许多次市长热线，可没有任何明确的答复。
Others, however, indicated that they had made numerous calls to the mayor's hotline in isolated places, without any clear response.
在拥有将近200名成员的“武汉人在北京”的微信群里，一些人在问一些人：你找到住的地方了吗？相同的问题，也出现在“在外回不来武汉抱团取暖群”“湖北难友在广东同帮群”等微信群里。
In the nearly 200-member "Wuhan people in Beijing" micro-letter group, some people are asking some people: have you found a place to live? The same problem also occurred in "can not go back to Wuhan Huanggang warm groups" "Hubei difficult friends in Guangdong cohort" and other micro-groups.
截至第一财经记者发稿时，他们还在寻找入住的酒店。
By the time the first financial reporter wrote, they were still looking for a hotel to stay.
在一般的酒店难以找到的情况下，许多人和张嘉佳一样，开始找到当地的民宿。
In the ordinary hotel difficult to find, many people like Zhang Jiajia, began to find local residential accommodation.
“找民宿，老板直接给进。
"Find lodging. The boss will give it directly.
”他们中有人说。
'said one of them.
在一个拥有198名成员的滞留泰国武汉人微信群里，谈到回武汉时，有人表示：“目前如果贸然回武汉，本来没事万一感染咋办？”对此，有人回答说：“继续做游客。
"If I had gone back to Wuhan at present, I would have done nothing if I had been infected," said a visitor to Wuhan, a group of 198 people staying in Wuhan, Thailand.
”但身在泰国，他们也存在深深的不安全感，其中一个就是水土不服。
But in Thailand, too, there is a deep sense of insecurity, one of which is disobedience.
他们中有人这样说：“在泰国我也胆战心惊，冷饮不敢多吃，空调不敢低开。
One of them said, "I'm scared too in Thailand. I'm afraid to eat too much cold drinks and keep my air conditioner down.
”也有人这样说：“娃吃什么都没胃口”。
Others say: "They have no appetite at all."
与此同时，随着时间一天天过去，身在泰国，有的表示“没钱了，也不知道普吉有没有合适的工作”。
At the same time, as the days passed, while in Thailand, some said "no money, and I don't know if Phuket had a suitable job."
和在“滞留海南”的微信群一样，“泰国群”微信群也在讨论包飞机回国的问题，随着讨论不断深入，意见也开始出现了分歧，甚至吵了起来。
Like the micro-groups stranded in Hainan, the "Thailand Group" has been discussing the return of charter flights, and as the discussions have progressed, opinions have begun to diverge and even become contentious.
但很快，他们又达成一致，表示要共同想办法。
But soon they agreed to work together.
（文中受访者均为化名。
(The respondents are aliases.
实习生马晨晨对此文亦有贡献）【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan price, traffic and living conditions of "Empty City" Wuhan are also contributing to this article.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
探访“滞留群”：出游回不了家的武汉人，你们还好吗？。
Visit the "detention group": the Wuhan people who can not travel home, how are you?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "探访“滞留群”：出游回不了家的武汉人，你们还好吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; visiting & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "无法回家的湖北人在各个群里诉说自己的遭遇，也开始抱团取暖。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Hubei, who couldn't go home, told about what happened to them in various groups and began to warm themselves.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
