LVMH从中国订购4000万个口罩，各国时尚巨头都是如何参与抗疫行动的？。
LVMH orders 40 million masks from China. How do fashion giants around the world participate in the fight against the disease?
周卓然。
Zhou Zhuoran.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：周卓然编辑 ：许悦“ 第一批订单共1000万个口罩，将在未来几天交付。
Journalist: Editor Joy Chow: "The first order of 10 million masks will be delivered in the next few days.
这批口罩将于下周初送给法国卫生服务中心，分发给有需要的人。
The masks will be sent to the French health service early next week for distribution to people in need.
”据路透社消息，法国奢侈品巨头LVMH集团宣布将从一家中国供应商处订购了4000万个卫生口罩，以帮助法国应对新冠病毒肺炎的爆发。
French luxury goods giant LVMH has announced it will order 40 million face masks from a Chinese supplier to help it cope with the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, Reuters reported.
LVMH集团在周六的一份声明中表示，第一批订单共1000万个口罩，将在未来几天交付。
In a statement Saturday, LVMH said the first orders, totalling 10 million masks, would be delivered in the coming days.
这批口罩将于下周初送给法国卫生服务中心，分发给有需要的人。
The masks will be sent to the French health service early next week for distribution to people in need.
订单的剩余部分将由法国提供资金，应在未来几周内交付。
The remainder of the order will be funded by France and should be delivered in the coming weeks.
几天前，LVMH集团已经为法国抗疫采取行动，将旗下部分品牌的香水生产线转为洗手液，并将其向法国医院免费提供。
A few days ago, LVMH took action against the French epidemic by converting some of its perfume lines into hand sanitizers and making them available to French hospitals free of charge.
该集团表示:“为了在极其紧张的时期获得这张口罩订单，并确保从今天开始生产，CEO Bernard Arnault马上安排LVMH集团为第一周的供货（1000万个）提供资金，总计500万欧元（约合人民币3800万元）。
"In order to secure the order for the mask in a very tight period and to ensure production starts today, CEO Bernard Arnault immediately arranged for LVMH to fund the first week of supply (10 million) for a total of 5 million euros (about 38 million yuan)."
”在法国抗击冠状病毒并于周二进入前所未有的禁闭期之际，许多卫生专业人士对防护物资短缺提出了批评。
Many health professionals have criticised the shortages as France battled the coronavirus and on Tuesday entered an unprecedented period of confinement.
如今，世界各国都在努力应对自1918年流感大流行以来最大的全球性公共卫生危机，和医疗用品和防护装备供应不足的问题。
Today, countries around the world are grappling with the biggest global public health crisis since the 1918 influenza pandemic and inadequate supplies of medical supplies and protective equipment.
而在其中，本就拥有成熟的纺织、日化类产品生产线的时尚企业成为了抗疫的主要力量，尤其是在法国和意大利，有许多全球性的时尚类商业巨头，可以起到协调各方资源、积极配合政府抗击疫情的作用。
Among them, the fashion enterprises, which already have mature textile and daily chemical products production lines, have become the main force in fighting the epidemic, especially in France and Italy, where many global fashion giants can coordinate resources and actively cooperate with the government in the fight against the epidemic.
例如在西班牙，Zara的母公司Inditex也在积极向当地政府提供帮助。
In Spain, for example, Zara's parent, Inditex, is also actively helping local authorities.
此时，快时尚品牌可以充分发挥强大的供应链体系为政府生产口罩。
At this point, fast fashion brands can give full play to the powerful supply chain system for the government to produce masks.
同时，Inditex集团也将旗下的服装生产线调整为了防护设备生产。
At the same time, Inditex Group has adjusted its clothing line to protect equipment production.
意大利也积极发动了众多时尚公司和纺织制造业联盟企业进行口罩等物资生产，但医疗和工人短缺依然是影响意大利抗疫的严重问题之一。
Italy has also been active in launching a number of fashion companies and textile unions to produce supplies such as masks, but shortages of medical care and workers remain a serious problem affecting Italy's fight against the epidemic.
目前，意大利纺织和制造业公司正在评估，是否应该重新调整各大生产线，来满足国家统一的要求。
Currently, Italian textile and manufacturing companies are assessing whether major production lines should be restructured to meet the requirements of national unity.
譬如据《女装日报》称，意大利的Waycap公司就是一家专门为奢侈品品牌生产时尚配饰的公司，目前已经将工厂改造为生产防护口罩的工厂，该公司计划每天向民防和意大利个地区提供10万件防水棉服。
In Italy, for example, Waycap, which makes fashion accessories for luxury brands, has converted its factory into a factory for the production of face masks, according to Women's Dress Daily, which plans to supply 100,000 pieces of waterproof cotton daily to civil defence and various regions of Italy.
还有一家名为Serica 1870的高端丝绸面料公司就在库存中发现了一种弹力棉纺织品，具有非医疗口罩的特点。
Another high-end silk fabric company, Serica 1870, found in its inventory an elastic cotton fabric with the characteristics of a non-medical mask.
Serica 1870目前正在试用这种面料的抗菌功能，如果能得到米兰Politecnico大学的测试和认证，就能够获批生产。
Serica 1870 is currently testing the antimicrobial properties of this fabric and could be approved for production if tested and certified by the University of Politecnico in Milan.
届时，该公司将于Castor等服装企业合作，共同生产口罩。
At that point, the company will work with Castor and other clothing companies to jointly produce masks.
而据Serica 1870的CEO Phillip Bardazzi表示，公司希望以成本价销售口罩。
According to Phillip Bardazzi, CEO of Serica 1870, the company wants to sell masks at cost.
正如香港中文大学管理学教授David Ahlstrom曾对《福布斯》说，企业在国家和全球危机期间对政府利益的支持并非没有先例。
As David Ahlstrom, a professor of management at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, told Forbes, corporate support for government interests during national and global crises is not unprecedented.
仅在美国，大萧条、第一次世界大战和第二次世界大战期间，企业就被动员起来帮助政府。
In the United States alone, businesses were mobilized to help governments during the Great Depression, World War I, and World War II.
Ahlstrom还表示，这种行动是谨慎、慈善和节制的责任感体现。
Ahlstrom also said the move was a sign of a sense of caution, charity and moderation.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
LVMH从中国订购4000万个口罩，各国时尚巨头都是如何参与抗疫行动的？。
LVMH orders 40 million masks from China. How do fashion giants around the world participate in the fight against the disease?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "LVMH从中国订购4000万个口罩，各国时尚巨头都是如何参与抗疫行动的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; LVMH ordered 40 million masks from China, and how did all of the world's fashion giants participate in its fight against the disease?;
var msg_desc = "第一批订单共1000万个口罩，将在未来几天交付。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the first order, for 10 million masks, will be delivered in the next few days.
这批口罩将于下周初送给法国卫生服务中心，分发给有需要的人。
The masks will be sent to the French health service early next week for distribution to people in need.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
