澳洲“锁国”后多地封城，悉尼海滩史无前例关门。
Australia's "lock country" after the closure of the city, Sydney Beach unprecedented closed.
刘芳。
Liu Fang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：刘芳“ 游客们和当地人并未严肃对待“保持社交距离”这一医学建议。
Journalist: "Tourists and locals alike don't take the medical advice of" keeping social distance "seriously.
”在新冠病毒的步步紧逼之下，南半球的澳大利亚也“封城”了。
Australia, in the southern hemisphere, has been "closed" by the new Crown virus.
当地时间3月22日，新南威尔士州和维多利亚州相继宣布将在48小时内“封城”，一切非必要的社会商业活动都将停止。
On March 22, New South Wales and Victoria announced that they would "close the city" for 48 hours, ending all non-essential social and commercial activities.
在此之前，澳大利亚已经宣布进入“生物安全紧急状态” 并关闭了边境。
Earlier, Australia had declared a "biosafety emergency" and closed its borders.
澳大利亚有2500万人口，主要集中在这两个东南部的州。
Australia has a population of 25 million, concentrated in the two southeastern states.
新州州长贝雷吉利安（Gladys Berejilian）在一份声明中表示：“今晚我将通知联邦政府，新州将在未来48小时内全面停止所有非必要服务。
"Tonight I will inform the federal government that the new state will completely cease all non-essential services within the next 48 hours," Gladys Berejilian, the governor of the new state, said in a statement.
”不过当地的超市、加油站、药房、货运、物流和送货上门等服务将会继续开放。
But local supermarkets, petrol stations, pharmacies, freight forwarding, logistics and door-to-door delivery services will remain open.
新州警察局局长埃利奥特（David Elliott）在社交媒体进一步解释道：“请注意，我们将在周二之前公布哪些是‘必要’的社会商业活动。
David Elliott, head of the new state police department, further explained on social media: "Please note that we will announce what are the 'necessary' socio-business activities by Tuesday.
”界面新闻实地走访发现，当地华人目前对于“封城”的反应比较冷静。
On-site visits to the Interface News found that local Chinese people are now more calm about the city's closure.
正在悉尼大学法学院就读的胡笑笑对界面新闻表示，她并没有计划回国因为“现在机票很贵，而且封城并不会对我自己的学习造成本质性影响。
Hu, who is studying at Sydney University School of Law, told the Interface News she had no plans to return home because "airfares are expensive and the ban does not have a fundamental impact on my own learning.
”澳大利亚广播电视台（ABC）认为，新州州长采用了“通知”而不是“与联邦政府协商”的语言耐人寻味。
Radio and Television Australia (ABC) found the new governor's use of "notice" rather than "consultation with the federal government" to be intriguing.
本周五，位于新州的悉尼最高气温达到了34度，上千名来自北半球的游客以及当地年轻人涌向邦迪海滩（Bondi Beach）享受即将离去的夏日时光。
On Friday, temperatures peaked at 34 degrees in Sydney, the new state, as thousands of tourists from the northern hemisphere and local youths flocked to Bondi Beach to enjoy the approaching summer months.
这让新州政府如临大敌。
This has left the new state government adversary.
ABC认为，很显然，游客们和当地人并没有将“保持社交距离”（social distancing）这一医学建议严肃对待。
ABC believes it is clear that tourists and locals are not taking seriously the medical advice to "maintain social distance."
3月20日，悉尼邦迪海滩。
Bondi Beach, Sydney, 20 March.
周六起，邦迪海滩已经全面关闭，新州警方和救生员们拿着大喇叭在海滩上要求人们离开，实为澳洲历史上罕见。
Bondi Beach has been completely closed since Saturday, and state police and lifeguards, with loudspeakers, are demanding that people leave on beaches, a rarity in Australian history.
周日，悉尼北部受当地人喜爱的Balmoral等一系列海滩系数关闭。
A series of beaches, including Balmoral, north of Sydney and popular with locals, were closed Sunday.
据新州卫生部最新通报称，周六到周日该州确诊的97例新冠肺炎患者中就包括数名曾在邦迪海滩游玩的背包客。
Among the 97 confirmed cases of pneumonia in the state between Saturday and Sunday were backpackers who had been on Bondi Beach, according to a new state health ministry report.
而违反防疫措施的新州公民将面临最高6个月的刑期。
New state citizens who violate immunization measures face up to six months in prison.
在新州州长宣布“封城”的决定后，维州州长安德鲁斯(Daniel Andrews)也在22日下午宣布“封城”。
After the governor of the new state announced his decision to "close the city," Governor Daniel Andrews also declared the city "closed" on the afternoon of Tuesday.
安德鲁斯表示：“做这个决定并不轻松。
"It wasn't an easy decision to make," Mr Andrews said.
但很明显，如果我们不采取这一举措，更多的维多利亚州人将感染新冠病毒，我们的医院将不堪重负，更多人将死亡。
But it is clear that if we do not take this step, more Victorians will become infected with the new crown virus, our hospitals will be overwhelmed and many more will die.
”除了本周日大量前往海滩的游客和当地人之外，目前澳大利亚面临最大的挑战之一就是“红宝石公主号”等邮轮上的乘客未经检测入境的风险。
"In addition to the crowds of tourists and locals heading to the beach on Sunday, one of the biggest challenges facing Australia today is the risk of undetected entry by passengers aboard cruise ships such as the Princess Ruby.
从3月7日起，五艘停靠澳大利亚各地的邮轮上共有23人确诊新冠肺炎。
Since March 7, 23 people have been diagnosed with pneumonia on five cruise ships calling at various locations in Australia.
“红宝石公主号”在3月19日停靠悉尼环形码头，近2700名乘客在没有经过任何检测的情况下下船。
The Princess Ruby docked at Sydney's roundabout on March 19 and nearly 2,700 passengers disembarked without any sort of test.
据《卫报》报道，此前船上共有158人出现疑似症状。
The Guardian reported 158 people on board had suspected symptoms.
3月20日，一艘名为名人至尊号（The Celebrity Solstice）的邮轮停靠悉尼港口，乘客在下船前也没有进行检测。
On March 20, a ship called The Celebrity Solstice docked at Sydney harbour, and passengers did not test it before disembarking.
前新州州长基尼利（Kristina Keneally）认为，这显然是防疫工作的巨大失误：“我对这情况非常担忧，这表明政府在持续向公众发出混乱和自相矛盾的信息。
Kristina Keneally, the former governor of the new state, described it as a clear blunder on the epidemic: "I am very concerned about the situation, which shows that the government continues to send messy and contradictory messages to the public."
”澳大利亚外交部最新数据显示，目前仍然有超过3000名澳大利亚人在世界各地的邮轮上滞留。
More than 3,000 Australians are still stranded on cruise ships around the world, according to new figures from the Australian Foreign Office.
3月22日，新州警方出动邦迪海滩。
March 22, the new state police out Bondi beach.
来源：《悉尼先驱晨报》22日早些时候，总理莫里森宣布了价值660亿澳元的经济刺激计划，进一步对失业人士、小企业和退休群体等进行支持。
Source: Sydney Morning Herald earlier this week announced a A $66 billion economic stimulus package to boost support for the unemployed, small businesses and retirees.
国库部长部长弗莱登伯格 (Josh Frydenberg) 在新闻发布会上表示，作为刺激计划的一部分，未来六个月内政府将放宽企业本应在《联邦公司法》规定下履行的法律义务。
In a news conference, Treasury Secretary Josh Frydenberg said the government would ease the legal obligations companies are supposed to meet under the Federal Companies Act over the next six months as part of the stimulus package.
同时，政府将为符合条件的贷款人提供50%的担保，并提供400亿澳元用于融资。
At the same time, the Government will provide 50 per cent guarantees for eligible lenders and $A 40 billion for financing.
对此ABC在早间新闻上表示，当政府推出了价值660亿澳元的经济刺激计划却没能上新闻头条的时候，我们就知道事情的严重性了。
ABC said on the morning news that the seriousness of the situation had been overshadowed by the A $66 billion economic stimulus package.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
澳洲“锁国”后多地封城，悉尼海滩史无前例关门。
Australia's "lock country" after the closure of the city, Sydney Beach unprecedented closed.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "澳洲“锁国”后多地封城，悉尼海滩史无前例关门";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Sydney Beach.
var msg_desc = "游客们和当地人并未严肃对待“保持社交距离”这一医学建议。
var msg _ desc = & quot; tourists and locals have not taken the medical advice of "keeping social distance" seriously.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
