挪威奥委会向国际奥委会建议推迟东京奥运会。
The Norwegian Olympic Committee has advised the IOC to postpone the Games.
新华网。
Xinhua Net.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
“ 国际奥委会此前曾表示，只有大约57%的运动员获得了参赛资格。
"The IOC has previously said that only about 57 per cent of athletes are eligible.
”挪威奥委会表示，已致信请求国际奥委会在新冠肺炎疫情得到控制之前，推迟举办2020年东京奥运会。
The Norwegian Olympic Committee said it had sent a letter asking the IOC to delay hosting the 2020 Tokyo Olympics until the outbreak of pneumonia is brought under control.
挪威奥委会方面表示，在与本国的各单项体育管理机构进行了讨论后，他们在给国际奥委会主席巴赫的一封信中提出了这一请求。
The Norwegian Olympic Committee said it had made the request in a letter to IOC president Bach after discussions with the country's individual sports governing bodies.
东京奥运会预计于7月24日至8月9日举行，残奥会将于8月25日至9月6日举行。
The Tokyo Olympics are expected to be held from July 24 to August 9, and the Paralympic Games from August 25 to September 6.
最近几天，运动员和体育官员要求推迟奥运会的呼声越来越高，这给国际奥委会、东京奥组委和日本政府增加了压力。
In recent days, growing calls from athletes and sports officials to delay the Games have added pressure on the IOC, Tokyo's Olympic organizing committee and the Japanese government.
不过国际奥委会和东京奥组委依旧表示，仍将按照东京奥运会如期举办的想法安排筹备工作。
However, the IOC and the Tokyo Organizing Committee for the Games still say preparations will continue to follow the schedule set for the Games in Tokyo.
新冠肺炎疫情的蔓延导致了一系列奥运会资格赛和测试赛暂停。
The spread of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic has led to a series of Olympic qualifying and test suspensions.
据报道，国际奥委会此前曾表示，只有大约57%的运动员获得了参赛资格。
The IOC has previously said only about 57 percent of its athletes were eligible, the IOC reported.
此前在接受媒体采访时，巴赫首次表示，国际奥委会正在评估东京奥运会的各种不同情况。
Earlier, in an interview with the media, Bach said for the first time that the IOC was assessing the different aspects of the Tokyo Olympics.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
挪威奥委会向国际奥委会建议推迟东京奥运会。
The Norwegian Olympic Committee has advised the IOC to postpone the Games.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "挪威奥委会向国际奥委会建议推迟东京奥运会";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Norway's Olympic Committee recommended to the International Olympic Committee that it postpone T & quot;
var msg_desc = "国际奥委会此前曾表示，只有大约57%的运动员获得了参赛资格。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The International Olympic Committee previously said only about 57% of its athletes were eligible.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
