美国新冠病例超西班牙居全球第三，四分之一人口面临“居家令”。
The United States has the third highest number of new cases in the world, with a quarter of the population facing "home orders."
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者 ：潘金花“ 美国新冠病例已突破2.6万，加州、纽约州、伊利诺伊州、康涅狄格州、新泽西州均已发布“居家令”。
Journalist: Pan Jinhua "The United States has more than 26,000 new crown cases, California, New York, Illinois, Connecticut, New Jersey have issued" home orders.
”根据美国约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的实时统计数据，截至北京时间3月22日10时43分，全球新冠肺炎确诊病例数已达307104例。
According to real-time statistics from Johns Hopkins University, the number of confirmed cases of pneumonia worldwide had reached 307,104 by 1043 hours Beijing time on March 22.
其中，美国累计确诊26574例，超过了西班牙的25496例，成为中国、意大利之后，全球累计确诊病例数第三多的国家。
Of these, 26,574 cases were diagnosed in the United States, surpassing Spain's 25,496, making it the third-largest country in the world after China and Italy.
此外，美国的累计死亡病例数也达到了307例。
In addition, the cumulative number of deaths in the United States reached 307.
随着疫情在国内蔓延，美国联邦监狱系统在押犯人中已确诊了首例病例，布鲁克林大都会看守所的一名犯人新冠病毒检测呈阳性。
As the epidemic spread across the country, the first case had been confirmed among detainees in the United States federal prison system, and a prisoner at the Brooklyn Metropolitan Prison had tested positive for the new crown virus.
此前，已有两名监狱局工作人员被确诊为新冠病例，一人在堪萨斯州，另一人在得克萨斯州。
Earlier, two Bureau of Prisons staff members had been confirmed as new cases, one in Kansas and the other in Texas.
在美国国会众议院有两人确诊后，美军中央司令部也出现了确诊病例，是一名15日从海外返回美国的海军士兵。
In the United States Congress after the House of Representatives two people diagnosed, the United States Central Command also appeared to be a confirmed case, a 15-day return from overseas Navy soldiers.
该士兵此后在家中进行预防性隔离，18日出现症状并接受检测，20日结果呈阳性。
The soldier was then placed in preventive isolation in his home, where he developed symptoms on 18 days and was tested positive on 20 days.
副总统彭斯21日晚也与妻子一同接受了检测。
Vice President Burns and his wife were also tested on the evening of 21.
此前，副总统办公室有一名职员检测呈阳性。
Previously, a staff member in the Vice-President's office tested positive.
但彭斯表示，他和总统特朗普与这名职员均无直接接触。
But Burns said he and President Trump had no direct contact with the employee.
据美国有线电视新闻网（CNN）当天报道，彭斯夫妇的检测结果均呈阴性。
The Bones tested negative, CNN reported on the same day.
为阻止疫情进一步扩散，各州政府正在陆续发布“居家令”。
To stop the spread of the epidemic, state governments are issuing "home orders."
据路透社报道，截至周六，美国已有约四分之一人口被要求闭店和居家。
As of Saturday, about a quarter of the U.S. population had been asked to stay out and stay at home, Reuters reported.
继加州、纽约州、伊利诺伊州和康涅狄格州之后，新泽西州21日也发布了“居家令”，从当晚9点开始，要求全州约900万居民取消非必要外出，非必要商业设施无限期关闭。
After California, New York, Illinois and Connecticut, New Jersey also issued the "Home Order," which began at 9: 00 pm and required some 9 million residents of the state to cancel their non-essential travel and close non-essential business facilities indefinitely.
这意味着在美国约3.2亿人口中，已有约7500万人面临“居家令”，占比23.4%。
That means about 75 million of the country's estimated 320 million people, or 23.4 per cent, are facing "home orders."
特朗普13日已宣布了“国家紧急状态”，以应对新冠肺炎疫情。
Trump has declared a "state of emergency" on the 13th, in response to the outbreak of pneumonia in the New Crown.
但他在20日表示，并未考虑从联邦政府层面发布全美范围的“居家令”，称“一些地区疫情并不严重”。
But he said on the 20th, he did not consider a nationwide "home order" from the federal level, saying "some areas are not serious epidemic."
截至当地时间21日晚9时，美国各州的确诊病例情况 数据来源：纽约时报目前，美国40%以上的确诊病例都来自纽约州，该州也是美国首个确诊人数破万的州。
The New York Times is the first state in the United States to have confirmed cases, with more than 40 percent of confirmed cases coming from New York state.
州长科莫表示，截至当地时间周六上午，纽约州的确诊人数已达到10365例，其中纽约市的病例也已飙升至6211例。
As of Saturday morning local time, New York had 10,365 confirmed cases, including 6,211 in New York City, Governor Komo said.
特朗普20日已宣布纽约州出现“重大灾难”。
Trump has declared a "major disaster" in New York state on the 20th.
科莫表示，确诊人数破万的原因在于纽约州使用了超过加州等近2倍的测试量，截至周六上午，该州已测试了超过45000例疑似病例。
Komo said the diagnosis was due to the fact that the state of New York used nearly twice as many tests as California, which had tested more than 45,000 suspected cases as of Saturday morning.
尽管境内确诊病例数已居全球第三，但美国的检测速度仍然相对落后。
Despite the fact that the number of confirmed cases in the country is the third highest in the world, the United States still lags behind.
根据美国疾控中心（CDC）官方网站公布的最新数据，截至20日晚，CDC实验室和地方公共卫生实验室仅共检测了66371份样本。
Only 66,371 samples had been tested by the CDC laboratory and local public health laboratories as of the evening of the 20th, according to the latest data available on the CDC's official website.
由于患者数量过多、检测能力不足，一些地区只能调整策略，不鼓励没有症状的人进行测试。
Due to the high number of patients and insufficient detection capacity, some districts have had to adjust their strategies to discourage asymptomatic people from testing.
而据《洛杉矶时报》20日报道，加州洛杉矶县卫生官员甚至已建议医生放弃检测疑似患者，只有在检测呈阳性能对改变治疗方式起到一定作用的情况下，才能给患者做检测。
Health officials in Los Angeles County, Calif., have even advised doctors to give up testing for suspected patients, only to have them tested if they can help change the way they treat them, the Los Angeles Times reported.
针对国内检测效率低的情况，白宫已在周六承诺，将在月底前发放2700万检测试剂盒。
The White House on Saturday promised to distribute 27 million test kits by the end of the month in response to inefficient testing at home.
美国食品药品监督管理局（FDA）也已紧急批准使用一种新的快速检测试剂盒，可以在约45分钟内检测到新冠病毒。
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has also given emergency approval for a new rapid-detection kit that can detect the new crown virus in about 45 minutes.
此外，为应对疫情造成的经济冲击，美国国会也正在讨论规模达1万亿美元的一揽子刺激计划，包括向美国民众直接派发现金等。
In addition, in response to the economic impact of the epidemic, the United States Congress is also discussing a $1 trillion stimulus package, including direct cash transfers to Americans.
参议院共和党领袖麦康奈尔称，两党代表在该计划的谈判上已取得重要进展。
Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell says delegates from both parties have made significant progress in negotiating the plan.
据路透社报道，预计麦康奈尔将在周一发起投票。
McConnell is expected to vote on Monday, Reuters reported.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
美国新冠病例超西班牙居全球第三，四分之一人口面临“居家令”。
The United States has the third highest number of new cases in the world, with a quarter of the population facing "home orders."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "美国新冠病例超西班牙居全球第三，四分之一人口面临“居家令”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "美国新冠病例已突破2.6万，加州、纽约州、伊利诺伊州、康涅狄格州、新泽西州均已发布“居家令”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; At least 26,000 new cases have been reported in the U.S., and Homestay Orders have been issued in California, New York, Illinois, Connecticut, and New Jersey.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
