西班牙病亡破纪录、意大利近9%不治，德国考虑全国宵禁。
With nearly 9% of deaths in Spain and nearly 9% in Italy, Germany is considering a national curfew.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：Twitter“ 德国警告，民众在本周末的表现是关键。
Source: Twitter: "Germany warns the public's performance over the weekend is crucial.
”截至3月20日，欧洲的新冠肺炎死亡病例已接近6000例。
As of March 20, there were nearly 6,000 new deaths from pneumonia in Europe.
意大利和西班牙均出现了单日最高死亡，意大利病亡率逼近9%，政府已发布新措施进一步限制民众出行。
Italy and Spain both have one-day highs, Italy has a near 9% fatality rate and the government has issued new measures to further restrict travel.
欧洲确诊病例数量第三的德国则警告公民，如本周末依然无法保持社交距离，可能就将在全国实施宵禁。
Germany, which has the third-highest number of confirmed cases in Europe, has warned citizens that a curfew could be imposed across the country if social distance is not maintained by the end of the week.
据《卫报》和《纽约时报》报道，周五，意大利新增死亡病例627例，西班牙新增死亡病例235例，均创下两国的单日死亡病例新高。
The Guardian and the New York Times reported 627 new deaths in Italy and 235 new deaths in Spain on Friday, setting new records for both countries.
约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的统计显示，目前，意大利累计确诊47021例，累计死亡4032例，为欧洲确诊和死亡病例最高国家，病亡率高达8.6%；西班牙累计确诊20410例，累计死亡1093例。
According to Johns Hopkins University, 47,021 cases and 4,032 cumulative deaths have been diagnosed in Italy, representing the highest number of confirmed and fatal cases in Europe, with 8.6 per cent, and 20,410 cumulative cases and 1,093 cumulative deaths in Spain.
周五晚，意大利政府发布新条例进一步限制民众出行，要求从周六起禁止民众进入公园、游乐场；禁止在户外进行休闲娱乐活动；节假日禁止前往居住地以外地区度假。
On Friday night, Italy's government imposed further restrictions on travel, banning parks and playgrounds from Saturday, outdoor recreation and holiday travel outside the home.
在重灾区伦巴第大区，114名士兵将参与巡逻，协助监督民众遵守封城措施。
In the heavily affected region of Lombardy, 114 soldiers will participate in patrols to help monitor the population's compliance with the closure measures.
意大利有47%的确诊病例和63%的死亡病例均集中在伦巴第大区。
In Italy, 47 per cent of confirmed cases and 63 per cent of deaths are concentrated in the Lombardy region.
与此同时，西班牙国家卫生应急部门则警告，该国的情况还将继续恶化。
Meanwhile, Spain's National Health Emergency Department has warned that the situation in the country will continue to deteriorate.
西班牙重症监护联合组织已经建议，由于医疗物资缺乏，医生选择优先治疗对象时可考虑患者“是否能继续生存两年以上以及其对社会的价值”。
The Spanish Association of Intensive Care has suggested that doctors should consider whether patients "will survive for more than two years and its value to society" when selecting patients for priority treatment because of a lack of medical supplies.
第二个条件已经引发争议。
The second condition is already controversial.
累计确诊19848例的德国则警告，民众在本周末的表现是关键。
Germany, where a cumulative total of 19,848 cases were diagnosed, warned that public performance over the weekend was crucial.
德国总理默克尔的发言人表示，默克尔将与各联邦州州长于周日决定是否要限制民众出行并实施宵禁。
A spokeswoman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she would decide Sunday with state governors whether to restrict movement and impose a curfew.
采取何种决定要取决于“民众周六的表现”，是否能减少与他人的接触。
The decision depends on "how people behave on Saturday" and whether they can reduce contact with others.
默克尔无法让全国实施宵禁，是否实施宵禁取决于各州政府。
Mrs Merkel could not impose a curfew across the country, and it was up to state governments to impose it.
虽然德国已经呼吁民众保持社交距离，但过去几周，依然有民众在公园等公共场所聚会。
Although Germany has called for social distance, people have been gathering in public places such as parks in the past few weeks.
巴伐利亚州和萨尔州已于周五宣布宵禁令。
Bavaria and Saarland announced curfews Friday.
法国当局也于周五宣布更严格的限制措施，要求民众每天只能外出一次，外出锻炼时只能在离居所近的地方单独锻炼，锻炼不能超过30分钟。
On Friday, French authorities announced stricter limits, requiring people to travel only once a day and exercise alone, not more than 30 minutes, near their homes.
东南部城市尼斯于周五晚开始实施宵禁。
A curfew began Friday night in the southeastern city of Nice.
同一天，欧盟委员会宣布启动“一般免责条款”，放松严格的缩减开支规定，允许各国为应对危机出现巨额赤字。
On the same day, the European Commission announced the launch of a "general disclaimer," easing strict spending cuts and allowing countries to run large deficits in response to the crisis.
这也是欧盟首次启动该条款。
This was also the first time that the EU had initiated the provision.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
西班牙病亡破纪录、意大利近9%不治，德国考虑全国宵禁。
With nearly 9% of deaths in Spain and nearly 9% in Italy, Germany is considering a national curfew.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "西班牙病亡破纪录、意大利近9%不治，德国考虑全国宵禁";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Spain's record for disease and death, nearly 9% of Italy's deaths, and Germany considered a national curfew;;;
var msg_desc = "德国警告，民众在本周末的表现是关键。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Germany warns that the public's performance this weekend was crucial.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
