各国如何对待武汉游客？。
How do countries treat Wuhan tourists?
陈姗姗 权小星。
Chen Shanshan is a star.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
28.01.2020本文字数：2613，阅读时长大约4.5分钟导读：今日武汉市文化和旅游局也表示，目前尚有4096名武汉游客在境外。
Wuhan city Cultural and Tourism Bureau said today there are 4,096 tourists from outside the city.
作者 | 第一财经陈姗姗 权小星26日晚，湖北省人民政府新闻办公室就新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作召开新闻发布会，武汉市长周先旺今日表示，因为春节和疫情的影响，目前有500多万人离开武汉，还有900万人留在城里。
Chinese Premier Zhou Sang-wang said today that more than five million people have left Wuhan and nine million remain in the city because of the Lunar New Year and the outbreak.
根据第一财经此前披露的航班大数据，这500万人中，有不少是飞去国外旅行。
According to big numbers previously disclosed by First Finance, many of the five million people were travelling abroad.
今日武汉市文化和旅游局也表示，目前尚有4096名武汉游客在境外。
Today Wuhan City Culture and Tourism Bureau also said that there are 4,096 tourists outside the country.
那么，在国内万众一心应对疫情的同时，其他国家是如何反应的？第一财经记者通过现场采访和权威信息进行了梳理：|泰国泰国是目前国外确诊新型肺炎患者最多的，共4例，这从过去一个月内武汉出港数据也可以关联：12.30-1.22日的武汉航班国际出发数据显示，到泰国曼谷机场的座位数排第一。
At the same time, how do other countries respond to the epidemic as a whole? Thailand and Thailand have the highest number of confirmed new cases of pneumonia abroad, with four cases.
目前，由于武汉机场的航班全部取消，不少要返程的武汉游客陷入了有家回不了而15天落地签即将过期的尴尬。
At present, due to the cancellation of flights at Wuhan airport, a lot of Wuhan tourists to return home can not return and the 15-day landing will expire the embarrassment.
不过，针对落地签即将到期的情况，泰国政府和移民局昨日发布通告，对于中国因新型肺炎疫情关闭个别机场，导致部分要回国却滞留泰国的中国游客，将实行免除预期滞留的的罚款，申请延长停留时间。
However, the Thai government and immigration authorities issued a notice yesterday seeking an extension of stay in Thailand in response to the imminent expiration of visa-on-arrival fines for some Chinese tourists who want to return home after shutting down individual airports because of the new pneumonia outbreak.
泰国方面强调，此通告仅限湖北省内的武汉，黄冈等城市。
Thailand stressed that the notice is limited to Wuhan, Huanggang and other cities in Hubei Province.
|新加坡新加坡也是武汉人出港国外的主要目的地之一，从武汉出港到新加坡的座位数排在泰国曼谷之后的第二位，目前新加坡已确诊三例患者。
Singapore, which is also one of Wuhan's main destinations abroad, has the second-highest number of seats after Bangkok, Thailand, after Wuhan, which has confirmed three cases.
目前，已有在新加坡结束旅游的武汉乘客，改签到其他航班回国，落地湖北省外城市。
Wuhan passengers who have terminated their tours in Singapore have now been re-signed to other flights and landed in cities outside Hubei province.
比如新加坡酷航就于25日发表声明，称由于飞往武汉的航班取消，酷航提供了全额退款和稍后改签回其他城市的选择，最终为116名武汉旅客改签到TR188次航班飞往杭州。
For example, Singapore Airlines issued a statement on the 25th, said that due to the cancellation of flights to Wuhan, Cool Airlines provided a full refund and later re-signed to other cities, and ultimately 116 Wuhan passengers were re-signed to flight TR188 to Hangzhou.
24日10时，TR188从新加坡达到杭州萧山机场，但这一航班上除了有116名武汉客人，还有219名其他城市的客人。
On the 24th, at 1000 hours, TR188 arrived at Xiaoshan Airport in Hangzhou from Singapore, but the flight was attended by, in addition to 116 visitors from Wuhan and 219 from other cities.
根据杭州市防控指挥部的疫情通报，由于事先掌握信息，飞机着陆后，2名发烧人员第一时间被送至萧山区第一人民医院，其余武汉乘客在机场宾馆就地隔离，而219名其他乘客也被留在市委党校集中医学观察。
According to the notification of the Hangzhou Control and Prevention Command, two people with fever were first taken to Xiaoshan First People's Hospital after the plane landed. The remaining Wuhan passengers were quarantined at the airport hotel, while 219 other passengers were kept under intensive medical observation at the municipal Party School.
另据记者了解，1月26日0点40分左右，新加坡到西安的TR134航班上又发现一例新型肺炎疑似病例，目前该患者已在指定医院接受治疗，同时该航班乘客也已医学观察35人，其余99名人员（含机组人员）还在征集要求前往指定酒店接受检查。
According to the reporter, at about 0040 hours on January 26, a new suspected case of pneumonia was found on board the Singapore-Xi'an TR134 flight. The patient is now being treated at a designated hospital, 35 passengers have been medically observed and 99 others, including crew members, are still calling for inspection at designated hotels.
| 日本武汉出港目的地座位数排第三的是日本成田机场，目前日本也确认了三例患者，其中第一位确诊者已经痊愈出院，后两位仍在东京的医院接受治疗。
The third-largest destination for Wuhan, Japan, is Narita Airport, and Japan has now confirmed three cases. The first confirmed cases have been cleared and the last two are still in hospital in Tokyo.
日本首相安倍晋三在1月27日上午召开的众议院预算会议上确定，日本内阁将在28日的会议上将新型肺炎纳入“指定传染病”，这意味着日本政府可对患者采取劝告、强制住院治疗、限制就业等措施。
Shinzo Abe, Japan's prime minister, confirmed at a session of the House budget on the morning of January 27 that the country's cabinet would include new pneumonia as a "designated infectious disease" at its meeting on January 28th, meaning the government could take measures to persuade patients, force hospitalization and restrict employment.
而在日本境内一旦被强制入院，不分国籍，所有治疗费将由政府承担。
In the event of compulsory hospitalization in Japan, all treatment costs will be borne by the Government, regardless of nationality.
在日本国内，日本外务省已经发出“2级感染症危险情报”，要求日本国民除紧急情况外，不要前往武汉市和湖北省，同时要求所有在中国的日本人，到驻中国各地的使领馆登记个人资料，以备感染后能够在第一时间得到帮助。
At home, Japan's foreign ministry has issued "Level 2 risk information," requiring Japanese nationals not to travel to Wuhan and Hubei provinces except for emergencies, and requiring all Japanese nationals in China to register their personal data with embassies or consulates throughout China in case they get help immediately after infection.
从23日开始，日本停飞了所有飞往武汉的航班，日本各大企业则取消了员工前往武汉与湖北出差计划。
Japan suspended all flights to Wuhan from May 23, while Japanese companies canceled travel plans to Wuhan and Hubei.
此外，日本政府还启动了紧急防疫机制，在各大机场附近指定重大传染病救治医院，配备专用的仪器设备，机场防疫机构也进行了发现感染者后的移送训练。
In addition, the Government of Japan has launched an emergency epidemic prevention mechanism, designated major infectious disease hospitals near major airports, equipped with special instruments, and conducted post-infection transfer training for airport epidemic prevention agencies.
第一财经记者在日本关西机场也看到，机场入境时有红外线体温检测仪，并给每一位入境的中国人一份“健康咨询通知”，如有问题可以到相关保健所咨询。
At Kansai Airport, Japan, the first financial reporter also saw infrared temperature detectors at the airport and gave every Chinese arriving at the airport a "health advice notice." If you have any questions, you can go to the relevant health clinic.
值得注意的是，到目前为止，日本政府并没有限制武汉游客进入日本，而是在中国游客较为集中的酒店，餐厅，百货公司门口，摆上免费的消毒液，供游客洗手消毒。
Remarkably, so far, the government has not restricted Wuhan tourists to Japan. Instead, it has placed free disinfectant in front of hotels, restaurants and department stores where Chinese tourists congregate to disinfect their hands.
第一财经记者在一些日本的药妆店也看到，有防毒作用的口罩已经所剩无几，但店员仍会主动介绍每一种口罩的功效和价格不同的原因，前几天有些日本店还对口罩进行了降价，并写上“中国加油”的字样，不过，这几天不少日本的药妆店也开始对游客购买口罩限购，原因是“库存告急”。
While leading financial reporters have seen few face masks left in some Japanese dressing shops, shop assistants still offer tips on why each mask works and why it costs so much. Some Japanese stores have cut prices the other day and have written "Cheer China," but in recent days many Japanese stores have begun to restrict purchases of face masks because of "stock crunch."
更有日本民间企业，捐助了100万只防疫口罩给中国，目前这批口罩已通过川航的“东京-成都”航班达到成都，再通过汽运驰援武汉。
Also, a Japanese civilian company donated one million face masks to China, which have been flown to Chengdu via Kawa's Tokyo-Chengdu flight to help Wuhan by bus.
| 韩国韩国也是武汉封城前武汉出港境外的主要目的地之一，目前有两例新型肺炎确诊。
The Republic of Korea, one of Wuhan's main destinations outside Wuhan before the city's closure, has now been confirmed with two new cases.
26日，韩国疾病管理本部宣布，韩国确诊第四例新型冠状病毒肺炎病例，并宣布将加强检疫，要求填写健康问卷的范围从来自武汉的旅客，扩大至来自中国全境的旅客。
A fourth case of coronavirus pneumonia has been confirmed in South Korea, the Ministry of Disease Control announced Thursday, announcing that quarantine will be tightened and that the scope of the health questionnaire will be expanded from visitors from Wuhan to visitors from all over China.
第一财经记者与韩国疾病管理本部（类似于我国疾控中心）取得联系，对方表示，暂时没有将武汉籍旅客遣返，或禁止入境的计划，但表示目前在韩国机场，针对所有来自中国的游客需要填写健康问卷，并进行两次体温测量，此外，机场消毒次数则增至平时的两倍，扶梯、公共电话、饮水台等公用设施每日消毒两次。
First Financial Reporter contacted Korea's Department of Disease Control, similar to China's CDC, saying there were no plans to repatriate or ban Wuhan-based passengers, but said they were filling out health questionnaires and taking temperature measurements twice a day at South Korean airports.
该负责人进一步表示，通过与移民部门的配合，已经将所有从武汉入境的人员信息传送至韩国医疗管理系统，该批人员前往医院就医时，医院系统会立刻提示该人群来自或中转武汉地区，并只要存在新型肺炎可能出现的任何一个症状，就应当立刻报备至疾控中心进行管理。
The director further indicated that through cooperation with the immigration department, all information on persons arriving from Wuhan had been transmitted to the Korean Medical Management System, and that when the group went to the hospital for medical treatment, the hospital system would immediately alert the group to the Wuhan area and report to the CDC for management as soon as any symptoms of a new type of pneumonia were present.
值得注意的是，虽然韩国方面表态目前还没有对中国游客加以限制的计划，但韩国驻武汉总领事馆已经表示，受到撤侨等其他业务压力的影响，将停止接受签证业务，而韩国大韩医师协会也发表声明，要求政府对所有从中国入境的旅客应当进行全面的调查、跟踪及管理，并敦促政府应当停止社区卫生中心的普通业务，转而全面对应新型肺炎。
It is worth noting that while South Korea has said it has no plans to restrict Chinese tourists, the Consulate General in Wuhan has said it will stop accepting visas because of pressure from other businesses, such as evacuees, and the Korean Medical Association has issued a statement calling on the government to investigate, track and manage all travellers entering China.
27日，韩国总统文在寅又指示，要求疾控机构联合移民机构，针对疫情爆发后所有从武汉地区入境的100余名游客进行病毒检查，并在检查结果更新前要求自行隔离。
On the 27th, South Korean President Wen Jin-yin instructed the CDC to jointly conduct a virus test on all 100 tourists entering Wuhan after the outbreak and ask them to isolate themselves before the test results are updated.
根据韩国首尔市政府的初步统计数据显示，目前在韩的中国游客中，有70%为非旅游团的个人游客，这也为游客的管理方面赋予巨大挑战。
According to preliminary statistics from Seoul, 70 per cent of Chinese tourists in South Korea are non-tour individual tourists, which also poses a huge challenge to the management of tourists.
第一财经记者联系到一位仍在韩国旅行的武汉籍游客孙小姐，她对记者表示，目前她来的时候乘坐的大韩航空公司航班已经停航，并接到大韩航空方面的联系，表示可以更改至中国境内任意目的地，且只要支付差价即可，同时也可以选择免费退票。
Ms. Sun, a Wuhan tourist still travelling in South Korea, was contacted by First Financial Correspondent, who told reporters that Korean Air's flight, which she was travelling on, had stopped and received a communication from Korean Airlines saying it could change to any destination in China, subject to payment of the difference.
“此外，我所在的酒店当得知我来自武汉以后，也请求能够尽快离开，并向疾控中心进行报备。
"In addition, when my hotel learned that I was from Wuhan, also requested to be able to leave as soon as possible, and to report to the CDC.
”孙小姐表示，她目前已经计划提前离开韩国，并前往提供定点住宿地点的城市，以等待进一步信息。
Ms Sun said she was planning to leave South Korea early and head to the city where she would provide regular accommodation pending further information.
综合携程旅行网、航司官网及韩国首尔仁川机场公社的信息显示，目前武汉-首尔航线由南方航空及大韩航空两家运营，且均发布了针对武汉航线的停航及更改计划，大韩航空及韩亚航空等韩国航司均推出针对1月20日至2月29日，出发或到达中国航线推出特殊退票措施，而韩国乐天、新罗等本土各大连锁酒店也推出特殊退改措施，允许中国籍游客免费更改或取消预订。
The Wuhan-Seoul route is operated by South Korean Airlines and Korea Air Korea Airways, both of which have issued stop-and-change plans for Wuhan-based routes, while Korean Airlines and Korean Airlines have introduced special cancellation measures for flights departing from or arriving in China from January 20 to February 29, while local chains such as Rakuten and Sinoe allow Chinese tourists to change or cancel reservations free of charge.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
各国如何对待武汉游客？。
How do countries treat Wuhan tourists?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "各国如何对待武汉游客？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How do countries treat Wuhan tourists?;
var msg_desc = "今日武汉市文化和旅游局也表示，目前尚有4096名武汉游客在境外。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; and Wuhan City's Culture and Tourism Administration today says 4,096 Wuhan tourists are still abroad.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
