特朗普首次宣布纽约州为疫情“重灾区”，这意味着什么？。
What does it mean for Trump to declare New York a "disaster area" for the first time?
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：CNN“ 纽约州劳工部门透露，部分地区的救济金申请上涨了1000%。
Source: CNN: Labor Department of New York says some areas have seen their benefits claim rise by 1,000 percent.
”随着纽约州新冠确诊病例激增2500多例，美国总统特朗普宣布纽约州为疫情“重大灾区”，以额外提供援助金。
With more than 2,500 new cases confirmed in New York, US President Trump has declared New York a "major disaster area" for additional aid.
这也是美国总统首次就公共卫生安全威胁宣布一个州成为“重大灾区”。
It was also the first time a US president has declared a state a "major disaster area" in terms of a public health threat.
周五，纽约州已经发布“居家令”限制民众出行，该州申请失业救济的人数也出现激增。
The state of New York, which on Friday restricted travel, also saw a surge in claims for unemployment benefits.
美国白宫官网3月20日发布声明确认，特朗普于当天宣布纽约州为新冠疫情“重大灾区”。
Trump declared New York a "major disaster area" for the new crown on Monday, the White House said in a statement.
成为重大灾区后，联邦政府将为纽约州抗击疫情提供额外资金援助。
After becoming a major disaster area, the federal government will provide additional funding to help fight the epidemic in New York.
据纽约雪城新闻网报道，宣布重大灾区意味着联邦政府将最高承担纽约州新冠应急措施支出的75%。
The announcement means the federal government will cover up to 75 percent of New York's New York State crown emergency response, according to Syracuse News of New York.
联邦紧急管理局将对纽约州提供人员和资源支持，协助建立移动新冠病毒检测点、消毒公共设施并提供口罩、手套等急需医疗用品。
The Federal Emergency Management Agency will provide personnel and resources to New York State to help establish mobile crown virus detection sites, disinfect public facilities and provide urgently needed medical supplies such as masks and gloves.
同时，联邦政府可立即动用426亿美元预备救灾资金中的一部分，为纽约州提供支持。
Meanwhile, the federal government could immediately use part of its $42.6 billion disaster-preparedness fund to support the state of New York.
纽约州州长科莫在呼吁特朗普宣布重大灾区时，还要求联邦政府向因疫情失业、但不符合正常救济金申领条件的纽约州居民发放救济金，其中包括自由职业者。
In calling on Trump to declare major disaster areas, New York Governor Timothy Comer also asked the federal government to provide benefits to New Yorkers, including the self-employed, who are unemployed but do not qualify for normal benefits.
周四，纽约州劳工部门透露，部分地区的救济金申请上涨了1000%，网页登录也上涨了400%。
On Thursday, the New York State Department of Labor said some applications for benefits rose 1,000% and Web logs up 400%.
当天，美国劳工部表示，从8日到14日，全美申领失业救济金人数总计28.1万，比前一周增加7万人，创下2012年以来最大单周涨幅。
The Labor Department said the number of Americans claiming unemployment benefits totaled 281,000 from Aug. 8 to 14, an increase of 70,000 from the previous week and the largest weekly increase since 2012.
截至20日，纽约州新增确诊病例2588例，累计确诊8299例，成为美国疫情最严重的州。
Up to the 20th, the state of New York has confirmed 2,588 new cases, a cumulative total of 8,299 cases, the worst epidemic in the United States.
其中，纽约市确诊病例5151例，死亡26例。
Of these, 5,151 were confirmed in New York City, resulting in 26 deaths.
除纽约州外，重灾区还包括华盛顿州和加州。
In addition to the state of New York, the hardest hit areas include Washington and California.
周五，科莫已经宣布实施“居家令”，要求纽约州所有非必需商业全部关闭，非必需岗位员工在家上班，非必需集会全部取消。
On Friday, Como announced a "stay-at-home order" requiring all nonessential businesses in New York state to be shut down, employees in nonessential jobs to work from home, and non-essential assemblies to be cancelled altogether.
民众依然可以外出前往超市、洗衣店、医院、遛狗、单独进行户外锻炼，但需与他人保持至少1.8米距离。
People can still travel to supermarkets, laundries, hospitals, walk their dogs and do outdoor exercise alone, but only at a distance of at least 1.8 metres.
在医疗机构、食品、执法、加油站、洗衣店等领域工作的居民依然可以到工作点上班。
Residents working in medical institutions, food, law enforcement, gas stations, laundries, etc., can still go to work.
居家令将从本周日晚开始执行，违反规定的公司将遭到罚款，但个人不会面临处罚。
Home orders will go into effect Sunday night, and companies that violate the rules will be fined, but individuals will not face penalties.
纽约州有1900多万人口。
New York has a population of over 19 million.
周五下午，伊利诺伊州和康涅狄格州也宣布居家令。
Home orders were also announced Friday afternoon in Illinois and Connecticut.
本周早些时候，加州已经宣布类似措施，但加州警告任何居民违反命令将面临警方处罚。
Earlier this week, California had announced similar measures, but it warned any resident that breaking the order would face police penalties.
特朗普在当天早些时候表示，美国政府目前没有“封国”计划。
Trump said earlier in the day that the US government had no plan to "close the country."
同一天，副总统彭斯办公室一名工作人员确诊感染，特朗普与彭斯都未曾与该员工有过密切接触。
On the same day, a staff member of Vice President Peng's office confirmed the infection, and neither Trump nor Burns had close contact with the employee.
对于纽约州确诊病例激增，科莫强调主要是由于当局加强了病毒检测力度。
Kommer stressed that the surge in confirmed cases in New York was largely due to intensified testing.
该州在一夜之间进行了一万多次检测，整个纽约州已有3.2万人接受了检测。
More than 10,000 tests were carried out overnight, and 32,000 people across New York have been tested.
科莫预计，纽约州的疫情将在45天左右达到顶峰。
Komo predicts the New York epidemic will peak in about 45 days.
届时，可能有11万人住院，但纽约州目前仅有5.3万张病床。
By then, 110,000 people may be hospitalized, but New York currently has only 53,000 beds.
截至目前，纽约州有超过1200人因感染新冠病毒住院治疗，其中170名患者在重症监护区。
Up to now, more than 1,200 people in New York State have been hospitalized with the new crown virus, 170 of them in intensive care.
科莫已经警告，纽约州将面临呼吸机严重短缺。
Komo has warned that New York will face a severe shortage of ventilators.
呼吸机制造商在接受《纽约时报》采访时指出，一台呼吸机至少需花费2.5万美元，操作人员需经过一系列培训才可使用。
Breathing machine makers told The New York Times that a ventilator costs at least $25,000 and operators need a series of training to use.
纽约州生命与法律任务组2015年的统计报告显示，当时纽约州各医院共有7250台呼吸机，各看护中心有1900台，但其中大部分都在使用中。
According to the 2015 Statistics Report of the New York State Life and Law Task Force, there were 7,250 ventilators in New York State hospitals and 1,900 in care centres, most of which were in use.
即使加上应急库存，也只有2800台可供立即使用。
Even with emergency stockpiles, only 2,800 are ready for immediate use.
报告预计，如果遭遇类似1918年大流感的严重流行病，在疫情高峰时期，纽约州将有约1.8万名患者需要呼吸机。
The report predicts that in the event of a major pandemic such as the 1918 pandemic, some 18,000 patients in New York State would need ventilators at the height of the epidemic.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特朗普首次宣布纽约州为疫情“重灾区”，这意味着什么？。
What does it mean for Trump to declare New York a "disaster area" for the first time?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "特朗普首次宣布纽约州为疫情“重灾区”，这意味着什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Trump first declared New York a "disaster area" for the epidemic, what does that mean? & quot;
var msg_desc = "纽约州劳工部门透露，部分地区的救济金申请上涨了1000%。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;% in some areas.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
