港大医学院院长：香港疫情或将大暴发。
Dean of HKU School of Medicine: Hong Kong Outbreak or Outbreak.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ 梁卓伟表示，数据显示，香港自1月下旬以来，病毒的即时有效繁殖率一直在1以下，但过去一周已经超过1，即每一个患者，可以将病毒传染给至少1个人。
Source: Visual China "Liang Zhuowei said the data showed that the immediate effective reproduction rate of the virus had been below 1 since late January, but had exceeded 1 in the past week, meaning that each patient could transmit the virus to at least one person.
”2020年3月20日，香港大学医学院院长梁卓伟警示，香港正面临新冠肺炎疫情出现以来最高风险，或将迎本地疫情大暴发。
On March 20, 2020, the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong, Mr Leung Cheuk-wai, warned that Hong Kong was facing the highest risk since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, or a local outbreak.
据官方数据，香港特区20日新增48例新冠肺炎确诊病例，再创单日新高，患者年龄介于4至69岁。
According to official figures, 48 new cases of pneumonia were confirmed in Hong Kong SAR on the 20th, setting a new one-day high for patients aged between 4 and 69.
海外网援引香港媒体报道称，香港特区卫生防护中心传染病处主任张竹君表示，香港累计确诊病例至今增至256例。
The total number of confirmed cases in Hong Kong has risen to 256, said Zhang Zhujun, director of the Infectious Diseases Branch of the Hong Kong Centre for Health Protection, the Hong Kong media reported.
48例新确诊个案中，有36例个案有外游史，大部分为欧洲，也有新加坡、瑞士、英国、土耳其、加拿大、奥地利、泰国、迪拜等。
Out of the 48 newly confirmed cases, 36 cases had a history of outbound travel, mostly in Europe, but also in Singapore, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Canada, Austria, Thailand and Dubai.
3月20日，香港大学李嘉诚医学院世卫传染病流行病学及控制合作中心在香港举行记者会，发表新型冠状病毒即时有效繁殖率实况报告。
The Centre for Epidemiology and Control of Infectious Diseases of the Li Ka Shing School of Medicine of the University of Hong Kong held a press conference in Hong Kong on March 20.
梁卓伟指出，目前香港已出现大量的外国输入个案，且数量已超过疫情早期的内地输入个案。
Mr Leung pointed out that there had been a large number of foreign imports into Hong Kong, which exceeded the number of Mainland imports in the early stages of the outbreak.
中新社报道称，梁卓伟表示，数据显示，香港自1月下旬以来，病毒的即时有效繁殖率一直在1以下，但过去一周已经超过1，即每一个患者，可以将病毒传染给至少1个人。
Figures show that Hong Kong has had an immediate effective reproduction rate of less than 1 since late January, but has exceeded 1 in the past week, meaning that every patient can transmit the virus to at least one person, the China News Agency reported.
梁卓伟强调，目前疫情依旧严峻，但调查发现，港人的防护意识最近有所下降，人群聚集、聚餐的现象增加。
Mr Leung stressed that the epidemic was still serious, but the survey found that Hong Kong people's sense of protection had recently decreased, with an increase in crowd gathering and eating.
他呼吁市民保持社交距离，商铺应注意营业时间、人流控制，继续采取防疫措施，老人院舍的防护工作更应做到滴水不漏。
He appealed to the public to maintain social distance, shops should pay attention to business hours, crowd control, continue to take preventive measures, elderly homes should be more protective work should be leak-proof.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
港大医学院院长：香港疫情或将大暴发。
Dean of HKU School of Medicine: Hong Kong Outbreak or Outbreak.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "港大医学院院长：香港疫情或将大暴发";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Dean of the Faculty of Medicine: At least & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "梁卓伟表示，数据显示，香港自1月下旬以来，病毒的即时有效繁殖率一直在1以下，但过去一周已经超过1，即每一个患者，可以将病毒传染给至少1个人。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Liang says the data show that Hong Kong has had an immediate effective reproduction rate below 1 since late January, but has exceeded 1 in the past week, meaning that every patient can transmit the virus to at least one person.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
