连洗手都是件奢侈事，“0确诊”的叙利亚如何防控？。
Even washing your hands is a luxury. How can Syria prevent and control a "0 diagnosis"?
肖恩。
Sean.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：TRT WORLD记者：肖恩“ 叙利亚是中东/北非仅剩的三个未报告新冠病毒确诊病例的国家之一，另外两个是同样受到战火摧残的利比亚和也门。
Source: TRT WORLD REPORTER: "Syria is one of the only three countries in the Middle East / North Africa that have not reported a confirmed case of the new crown virus. The other two are war-torn Libya and Yemen.
这些地区无异于“定时炸弹”。
These areas are tantamount to "time bombs."
”如何预防新冠病毒？各国卫生部门给出的建议都是勤洗手、远离人群。
Health authorities around the world are advising to wash hands frequently and stay away from people.
这个简单的步骤，在饱受战乱之苦的叙利亚却只能成为空谈。
This simple step, in war-torn Syria, has been a dead letter.
疫情或许将给这个已经千疮百孔的国家带来又一场梦魇。
The outbreak may bring another nightmare to an already battered country.
截至目前，叙利亚并未报告任何新冠肺炎确诊病例。
To date, no confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia have been reported in Syria.
但没报告是否等于没有，要打一个问号。
But do not report whether equal to not, want to type a question mark.
世界卫生组织东地中海区域办事处主任艾哈迈德·曼达里（Ahmed Al-Mandhari）19日就指出，有一些地区/国家仍未向该组织通报全部的病例情况。
Ahmed Al-Mandhari, Director of the WHO Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, noted on the 19th that some regions / countries had not yet informed the organization of all cases.
叙利亚拥有1800万人口，几个邻国土耳其（359）、伊拉克（192）、约旦（70）、黎巴嫩（158）、以色列（677）均已发现了大规模确诊病例，其中多数来往密切。
Syria has a population of 18 million, and several neighbouring countries, Turkey (359), Iraq (192), Jordan (70), Lebanon (158) and Israel (677), have detected large-scale confirmed cases, most of which are close.
世卫组织在邮件中对半岛电视台表示，叙利亚新冠肺炎疫情爆发的风险非常高。
In an e-mail, WHO told Al-Jazeera that the risk of an outbreak of pneumonia in Syria was very high.
但叙利亚当局坚称国内没有出现新冠肺炎病例。
But Syrian authorities insist there have been no new cases of pneumonia in the country.
据阿拉伯叙利亚通讯社（SANA）报道，截至16日叙利亚共进行了103次新冠病毒检测，全部呈阴性。
According to the Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA), Syria had conducted 103 new crown virus tests as of June 16, all negative.
一名大马士革政府医院的工作人员认为，常年战乱的叙利亚基本没有旅游业，早就处于封锁状态，因此能够轻易阻挡病毒。
A staff member at the Damascus government hospital said the war-torn country, with little tourism and a long-standing blockade, could easily stop the virus.
但据巴基斯坦《每日时报》报道，该国卫生官员称有8例在巴基斯坦确诊的病例都有叙利亚或伊拉克旅行史，从卡塔尔多哈入境。
But Pakistani health officials say eight cases confirmed in Pakistan have a history of travel from Syria or Iraq, entering from Doha, Qatar, the Daily Times reported.
叙利亚和已经确诊逾18000例病例的伊朗也有密切往来。
Syria also has close ties with Iran, which has confirmed more than 18,000 cases.
总部位于伦敦的叙利亚人权观察组织称，实际上在首都大马士革等多个地区已经出现新冠肺炎死亡病例，但政府一直保持噤声。
London-based Syrian Human Rights Watch says the government has been silent about deaths from pneumonia in several areas, including the capital Damascus.
随后叙利亚卫生部长亚齐兹（Nizar Yazigi）否认了这一说法。
Syria's health minister, Nizar Yazigi, later denied the claim.
叙政府已经采取一系列防控疫情的措施，包括关闭国内所有大中小学、公共场所和餐厅、健身房等容易出现人群聚集的场所，缩短工作时间等。
The Syrian Government has taken a series of measures to prevent and control the epidemic, including closing all schools, colleges and universities, public places and restaurants, gymnasiums and other places prone to crowds, and shortening working hours.
叙利亚内政部20日宣布，禁止来自多个重点疫情地区旅客入境。
Syrian Interior Ministry announced on the 20th, prohibit the entry of passengers from many key epidemic areas.
原定于4月13日举行的议会选举也被推迟。
Parliamentary elections, originally scheduled for 13 April, were also postponed.
而在与土耳其接壤的叙利亚西北部，有一块地方更是如履薄冰——伊德利卜省。
In northwestern Syria, on the border with Turkey, there is one area where ice is trekking - Idlib.
据《纽约时报》报道，世卫组织在一个多月前就向叙利亚政府运送了一批检测试剂盒，但在反对派控制的西北部地区还没能收到任何试剂盒。
According to The New York Times, WHO delivered a batch of test kits to the Syrian Government more than a month ago, but has yet to receive any kits in the opposition-controlled north-west.
当地医生说，新冠病毒可能已经在毫无监测的情况下在这个极度危险的环境里蔓延了数周。
Local doctors say the virus may have been spreading for weeks without monitoring in this extremely dangerous environment.
叙利亚美国医学会（Syrian American Medical Society）伊德利卜地区医院负责人塔纳利（Mohamed Ghaleb Tennari）透露，目前医院已经有患者出现疑似新冠肺炎症状，还有患者死亡，但因为没有检测能力，无法确认他们是否真的感染了新冠肺炎。
Mohamed Ghaleb Tennari, head of the Syrian American Medical Society's Idlib regional hospital, said patients were already showing signs of suspected new crown pneumonia and dying, but could not confirm whether they had contracted pneumonia because they lacked the ability to do so.
世卫组织在土耳其南部的跨境事务发言人哈尔多森（Hedinn Halldorrson）18日表示，世卫组织援助的检测试剂盒预计于下周抵达伊德利卜省，一些样本也可以送到土耳其进行检测。
A WHO-assisted test kit is expected to arrive in Idlib province next week, and some samples could be sent to Turkey for testing, Hedinn Halldorrson, the WHO's cross-border spokesman in southern Turkey, said Monday.
目前叙利亚仅有的一个检测实验室在大马士革。
At present, the only testing laboratory in Syria is in Damascus.
连年内战，加上土叙边境炮火不断，叙利亚人距离“太平”还很遥远。
Years of civil war, combined with the barrage of Turkish-Syrian border fire, have left Syrians far from peace.
从2012年起，伊德利卜省就处于反对派武装的控制下，目前共有约300万人居住在那里。
Since 2012, Idlib governorate has been under the control of opposition forces and currently houses some 3 million people.
伊德利卜省也是俄土博弈的核心。
Idlib is also at the heart of the Russian-Turkish game.
去年12月，叙利亚政府军在俄罗斯军事支持下，在伊德利卜对土耳其支持的叙反对派武装发动袭击，随后双方屡次交锋。
Last December, Syrian government forces, backed by Russian military support, launched an attack on Turkish-backed Syrian opposition forces in Idlib, followed by repeated clashes.
直至本月初，俄罗斯总统普京和土耳其总统埃尔多安就伊德利卜省停火问题达成协议。
Until early this month, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan reached an agreement on a ceasefire in Idlib.
但叙政府和反对派至今都没有让步迹象，平静状态预计不会维持太久。
But neither the Syrian government nor the opposition has budged, and the calm is not expected to last long.
而新冠病毒极可能“趁乱作祟”。
And the new crown virus is most likely to "sneak around."
在伊德利卜，有100万因战乱而流离失所的人们，他们挤在帐篷或废弃大楼里，一个帐篷有时候会住上10多个人，基本没有流水可用。
In Idlib, there were 1 million people displaced by the fighting, huddled in tents or abandoned buildings, sometimes housing more than 10 people in a tent, with little running water available.
试想在这样的环境里，一旦出现新冠病毒，会产生何种灾难性后果。
Imagine the catastrophic consequences of a new crown virus in such an environment.
“你要我们勤洗手？有些人一周都没法给自己的孩子洗一次手。
"Do you want us to wash hands often? Some people can't wash their children's hands once a week.
他们还住在户外。
They still live outside.
”非营利组织Maram援助和发展基金会伊德利卜地区负责人梅沙赫尔（Fadi Mesaher）说。
Fadi Mesaher, head of the nonprofit Maram Foundation for Aid and Development in Idlib, said.
无休止的战争也将叙利亚的医疗设施摧毁殆尽。
The endless war has also destroyed Syria's medical facilities.
据世卫组织给出的数据，从去年12月至今，伊德利卜省就有超过了84家医院和医疗设施遇袭受损，或被迫关门。
Since December last year, more than 84 hospitals and medical facilities have been attacked or shut down in Idlib, according to WHO.
仍在运转的医院也面临物资紧缺的困境。
Hospitals that are still in operation also face material shortages.
叙利亚全国也只有50%的公立医院能够完整运转。
Only 50 per cent of public hospitals in Syria are fully operational.
叙利亚美国医学会的一名工作人员提到，叙北部甚至没有能用来隔离感染者的设施。
A staff member of the Syrian American Medical Association mentioned that northern Syria does not even have facilities that can be used to isolate infected people.
当地医生预计，伊德利卜省可能会有100万人感染，10万至12万人可能死亡，还有1万人需要用到呼吸机。
Local doctors expect 1 million people to become infected, 100,000 to 120,000 likely to die in Idlib, and 10,000 more to need ventilators.
但目前伊德利卜省可用的呼吸机数量只有153个。
However, only 153 respirators are currently available in Idlib governorate.
伊德利卜卫生指挥部表示，他们正在为应对新冠肺炎疫情做准备，将在当地3家医院设立60个床位。
The Idlib Health Command said it was preparing for a new outbreak of pneumonia with 60 beds in three local hospitals.
本月内，该地区的学校和其他设施将被用作隔离中心，收治出现轻微新冠肺炎疑似症状的患者。
Within this month, schools and other facilities in the area will be used as isolation centers for patients with suspected mild pneumonia.
战火中还有大批叙利亚难民涌向土耳其，试图寻找通往欧洲的路。
There has also been a massive exodus of Syrian refugees to Turkey in an attempt to find their way to Europe.
世卫官员哈尔多森表示，接下来将在土叙边境设立检查点。
WHO official Haldun said the next step would be to set up checkpoints along the border with Syria.
20日，联合国秘书长古特雷斯告诫，如果任由病毒像野火一样蔓延——尤其是在世界最脆弱的地区，那么，病毒可能造成数百万人死亡。
If the virus is allowed to spread like wildfire, especially in the most vulnerable parts of the world, it could kill millions of people, U.N. Secretary-General Carlos Guterres warned Thursday.
叙利亚是中东/北非仅剩的三个未报告新冠病毒确诊病例的国家之一，另外两个是同样受到战火摧残的利比亚和也门。
Syria is one of only three remaining countries in the Middle East / North Africa that have not reported confirmed cases of the new crown virus, along with Libya and Yemen, which are also war-torn.
这些地区无异于“定时炸弹”。
These areas are tantamount to "time bombs."
“每次我们以为叙利亚的情况已经跌到谷底的时候，生活总会朝我们笑笑，然后变得更糟。
"Every time we think the situation in Syria has bottomed out, life laughs at us and gets worse.
”Maram援助和发展基金会联合创始人Yakzan Shishakly这样说。
"said Yakzan Shishakly, co-founder of the Maram Foundation for Aid and Development.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
连洗手都是件奢侈事，“0确诊”的叙利亚如何防控？。
Even washing your hands is a luxury. How can Syria prevent and control a "0 diagnosis"?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "连洗手都是件奢侈事，“0确诊”的叙利亚如何防控？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; even hand-washing is a luxury, and how does "0 diagnosis" Syria control?;
var msg_desc = "叙利亚是中东/北非仅剩的三个未报告新冠病毒确诊病例的国家之一，另外两个是同样受到战火摧残的利比亚和也门。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Syria is one of only three remaining countries in the Middle East / North Africa that have not reported a confirmed case of the new crown virus, along with Libya and Yemen, which are also war-torn.
这些地区无异于“定时炸弹”。
These areas are tantamount to "time bombs."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
