新冠疫情下，意大利“一代人”逝去来不及道别。
Italy's "generation" has passed without saying good-bye to the new crown.
安晶。
Anjing.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：半岛电视台记者 | 安晶“一代人在短短两周里就没了，我们从没见过这样的事。
Source: Al Jazeera & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; &
”从3月1日至今，意大利贝加莫省最大的丧葬公司CFB已经处理了600多具遗体。
Since March 1, CFB, Italy's largest funeral company in the province of Bergamo, has disposed of more than 600 bodies.
CFB负责人里卡多（Antonio Ricciardi）在接受《卫报》采访时透露，公司平时一个月的工作量约120具。
In an interview with The Guardian, Antonio Ricciardi, CFB's director, revealed that the company's average monthly workload is about 120.
自新冠肺炎疫情爆发以来，该国北部伦巴第大区贝加莫市居民对当地一份报纸的讣告版做了一个统计：2月9日，讣告版占了一页；到3月13日，讣告版已经扩充到10页。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia in the northern part of the country, residents of the city of Bergamo in the Lombardy region of the north of the country have given an obituary version of a local newspaper: on 9 February, the obituary page occupied one page; by 13 March, the obituary version had been expanded to 10 pages.
由于病亡人数激增，当地丧葬公司无力应对，3月18日晚，15辆军车被派往贝加莫市，将约65尊棺材运到贝加莫之外的12个镇进行遗体火化。
On the night of 18 March, 15 military vehicles were sent to the city of Bergamo to transport some 65 coffins to 12 towns outside of Bergamo for cremation, owing to a surge in the number of deaths and injuries.
大部分逝者都没有葬礼。
Most of the dead did not have funerals.
为避免疫情扩散，意大利当局已经禁止了包括葬礼、婚礼在内的仪式。
Italian authorities have banned ceremonies including funerals and weddings to prevent the outbreak from spreading.
本周，威尼斯等地的两名神父因主持葬礼遭到起诉。
This week, two priests, including one in Venice, were indicted for hosting a funeral.
一名医生在接受路透社采访时指出，新冠确诊患者接受治疗期间，家属不能前往医院探视。
In an interview with Reuters, a doctor said family members were unable to visit patients diagnosed in the crown during treatment.
患者去世后，由医院电话通知家属，遗体则直接封棺，在没有亲属在场的情形下土葬或者火葬。
After the death of the patient, the family was notified by telephone from the hospital, and the body was sealed directly and buried or cremated in the absence of relatives.
即便如此，里卡多表示，他所在的丧葬公司也有很多员工感染，已经没有足够的人手运送遗体。
Even so, Ricardo said many of his company's employees were infected and did not have enough manpower to carry the bodies.
贝加莫市一名老师还透露，本周，一名88岁的老人发烧数日后在家中去世。
An 88-year-old man died of a fever several days later this week, a teacher in Bergamo said.
由于急救电话一直占线，老人直到去世都没能联系上救护人员。
As the emergency line was busy, the old man could not reach the ambulance crew until his death.
老人去世一小时后，救护车赶到现场。
An ambulance arrived an hour after the old man died.
但由于贝加莫已经没有棺材可用，急救人员只能将老人的遗体留在屋内并封锁房间以防止亲属入内。
But since there was no coffin available for Bagamo, emergency workers left the body inside and sealed the room to prevent relatives from entering.
直到找到棺材，老人的遗体才能得到安葬。
The body of the old man could not be buried until the coffin was found.
运送棺材的军车。
a military vehicle carrying coffins.
图片来源：Twitter看到运送棺材的军车从路上开过，贝加莫市居民扎尼朗尼（Roberta Zaninoni）在接受《华尔街日报》采访时庆幸，自己的父亲不在车上。
Source: Twitter saw a military van carrying the casket drive by, and Bergamo resident Roberta Zaninoni told The Wall Street Journal that his father wasn't in the car.
扎尼朗尼的父亲于10日因感染新冠病毒病逝，病逝两天前才住进医院。
Zanilani's father died of the New Crown Virus on the 10th and died two days ago.
“我们小看了这个病。
"We despised the disease.
我一直在想当初应该做更多准备，防止父亲感染。
I've been thinking that I should have done more to keep my father from getting infected.
我希望其他国家的民众不要犯我们犯过的错，把你们的父母锁在家里，不要让他们出门。
I want people in other countries not to make the mistakes we've made, to lock your parents up at home and not to let them out.
”贝加莫市所在的贝加莫省有约110万人口，为意大利的富裕省份。
The province of Bergamo, home to about 1.1 million people, is Italy's wealthiest province.
但在此次疫情中，该省成为重灾区，累计确诊4305例。
But in this outbreak, the province became a major disaster area, a cumulative total of 4,305 confirmed cases.
截至3月19日，意大利累计确诊41035例，死亡3405例。
As of March 19, a cumulative total of 41,035 cases and 3,405 deaths had been diagnosed in Italy.
意大利也超过中国，成为全球死亡病例最多的国家，死亡率高达8%。
Italy also overtook China, with the highest global death toll of 8 per cent.
对于高死亡率，意大利卫生部长顾问里奇亚蒂（Walter Ricciardi）认为，老年人口居多是主要原因之一，意大利是世界老龄化第二严重国家。
As for the high mortality rate, Italian Health Minister Walter Ricciardi believes that the high number of elderly people is one of the main causes, with Italy having the second-oldest country in the world.
意大利有6048万人口。
Italy has a population of 60.48 million.
据意大利统计局的数据，2018年，该国有近60%人口在40岁及以上，近23%在65岁以上，年龄中位数为45岁。
According to ISTAT data, in 2018, nearly 60 per cent of the country's population was 40 years of age or older, nearly 23 per cent were over 65 years of age and the median age was 45 years.
《美国医学会杂志》17日发表的统计显示，在意大利的新冠确诊病例中，有37.6%为70岁以上，37.3%为51岁到70岁。
According to statistics published in the Journal of the American Medical Association on the 17th, 37.6 percent of confirmed cases in Italy are over 70 years of age and 37.3 percent are between the ages of 51 and 70.
意大利国立卫生研究院统计显示，在新冠死亡病例中有87%的患者在70岁以上。
According to the Italian National Institutes of Health, 87 per cent of deaths in the new crown are over 70 years of age.
3月15日数据。
Data of 15 March.
图片来源：美国医学会杂志里奇亚蒂表示，意大利各医院收治的新冠患者中，年龄中位数为67岁，而大部分死亡患者都有一到三种基础疾病。
Source: American Medical Association magazine Rich Yatti says the median age of new crowns admitted to hospitals in Italy is 67, and most deaths are due to one to three basic diseases.
除人口老龄化之外，研究人员也指出，由于接受病毒检测的大部分为在医院治疗的患者，还有大量感染者没有被检测出来，因此死亡率高企。
In addition to an aging population, the researchers note that the death rate is high because the majority of those tested are hospital-based patients and a large number of infected people are not detected.
当大量高龄患者涌入医院时，重症监护设备就变得更为关键。
Intensive care equipment becomes even more critical when large numbers of elderly patients arrive in hospitals.
伦巴第大区是意大利确诊病例最多的大区，有近2万确诊病例，其中2168例死亡。
Lombardy is the region with the highest number of confirmed cases in Italy, with nearly 20,000 confirmed cases, 2,168 of which resulted in death.
意大利卫生部周四公布的数据显示，伦巴第大区的重症监护床位已经占用了94%，即将无床位可用。
The number of intensive-care beds in the Lombardy region is 94 percent, according to figures released on Thursday by Italy's health ministry.
ICU床位占用率。
ICU bed occupancy rate.
图片来源：意大利卫生部《华尔街日报》报道则指出，在疫情前，伦巴第大区各医院的重症监护区共有约900个床位，但目前该区有924名新冠患者在重症监护区接受治疗。
Source: The Wall Street Journal of the Italian Ministry of Health reported that, prior to the outbreak, approximately 900 beds were available in intensive care units in Lombardy hospitals, but 924 new patients were being treated in intensive care areas.
医院只能腾出一切可用空间，紧急加设病床。
The hospital could only free up all available space for emergency additional beds.
由于医疗资源有限，哪些患者应该优先接受治疗，成为了医生被迫面对的选择。
With limited medical resources, doctors are forced to choose which patients should receive priority treatment.
意大利麻醉、镇痛、复苏和重症监护学院发布的指南中建议，在资源短缺的情况下，应该让“最有可能救治成功和存活的患者”使用重症监护设备。
In the guidelines issued by the Italian Academy of Anesthesia, Analgesia, Resuscitation, and Intensive Care, it is recommended that, in the face of resource constraints, intensive-care devices should be made available to "those most likely to treat successful and surviving patients."
一名罗马的医生在接受NPR采访时举例称：“如果你有一名99岁、患多种疾病的患者，还有一名需要插管的年轻小孩，但你只有一个呼吸器。
"If you have a 99-year-old with multiple diseases and a young child who needs a catheter, you have only one respirator," a Roman doctor told NPR.
你不需要扔硬币来决定该选谁。
You don't have to toss a coin to decide who to pick.
”有研究人员推测，这种选择也是意大利死亡病例升高的原因之一。
Researchers speculate that this choice also contributed to the rise in deaths in Italy.
随着医院接收的患者增多，被感染的医护人员也越来越多。
As the number of patients admitted to hospitals has increased, so have the number of infected health-care personnel.
伦巴第大区克雷莫纳省一家小型医院的医生在接受路透社采访时透露，该医院的医护人员感染率已经达到20%。
In an interview with Reuters, doctors at a small hospital in the Lombardy province of Cremona said the rate of infection among health-care workers there had reached 20 percent.
意大利循证医学组织本周发布的报告显示，从2月疫情爆发至今，意大利已经有至少2629名医护人员感染新冠病毒。
Italy has had at least 2,629 health-care workers infected with the new crown virus since the outbreak began in February, according to a report released this week by the Italian organization Evidence-Based Medicine.
由于防护用品短缺，部分医生只能佩戴普通外科手术口罩。
Due to the shortage of protective equipment, some doctors can only wear ordinary surgical masks.
周四，伦巴第大区科莫镇有两名医生去世。
On Thursday, two doctors died in Komo commune, Lombardy region.
至此，意大利至少有13名医护人员死于新冠病毒感染。
As a result, at least 13 health-care workers in Italy have died of a new crown virus.
为加大对医疗机构的支持，意大利政府周一宣布紧急法令，为医疗卫生系统提供35亿欧元资金，用于扩大重症监护区、购买呼吸机和防护设备，同时招募5000名医生和1.5万名护士及医务人员，包括尚未毕业的医学生。
To boost support for health-care facilities, the Italian government on Monday announced an emergency decree providing 3.5 billion euros for the health-care system to expand intensive care areas, buy respirators and protective equipment, and recruit 5,000 doctors and 15,000 nurses and medical personnel, including medical students who have not yet graduated.
本周，已有2200名医生和护士向伦巴第大区各医院提交了求职申请，其中一半正在评估中。
This week, 2,200 doctors and nurses applied to hospitals in the Lombardy region, half of whom are being evaluated.
然而就算有新的医护人员加入，意大利还将继续面对医用物资短缺的问题。
But even with new health care workers, Italy will continue to face shortages of medical supplies.
意大利紧急民防部门预计，该国目前每月需要9000万个口罩。
Italy's emergency civil defence agency predicts that the country now needs 90 million masks a month.
意大利本国不生产口罩，进口是唯一途径。
Italy does not produce its own masks and imports are the only way.
民防部长博雷利（Angelo Borrelli）表示，意大利已经就购买5500万个口罩签署了协议，但由于多国禁止口罩出口，其中有2000万个将永远无法到货。
Civil Defence Minister Angelo Borrelli said Italy had signed a deal to buy 55 million face masks, but 20 million of them would never arrive because of a multi-country ban on the export of masks.
上周，中国的九名医疗专家和31吨医疗物资已经抵达意大利。
Last week, nine Chinese medical experts and 31 tons of medical supplies arrived in Italy.
意大利总理孔特则宣布，政府将继续延长关闭学校和商店的紧急措施。
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte has announced that the government will continue to extend emergency measures to close schools and shops.
此前的法令要求全国学校关闭至4月3日，大部分商店关闭至3月25日。
The previous decree called for schools to be closed nationwide until April 3 and most shops until March 25.
孔特还警告，如有必要，政府将继续加强隔离措施，进一步限制民众出行。
Conte also warned that, if necessary, the Government would continue to strengthen the separation measures and further restrict the movement of the population.
各地区政府官员已经呼吁禁止民众出门进行户外活动，并关闭所有公园。
District officials have called for a ban on outdoor activities and the closure of all parks.
上周末，代利亚市市长班凯里在社交媒体发布视频，用“咆哮体”呼吁市民不要再每天出门买烟、给车加油、跑步或者周末聚会烧烤。
Last weekend, Daylia Mayor Ben Carey posted a video on social media, using a "growl" to appeal to citizens to stop going out every day to buy cigarettes, fuel cars, run or have a weekend barbecue.
本周，意大利有4.3万人因“无合理原因外出”收到了警方的罚单。
This week, 43,000 Italians received police tickets for "going out without good reason."
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠疫情下，意大利“一代人”逝去来不及道别。
Italy's "generation" has passed without saying good-bye to the new crown.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠疫情下，意大利“一代人”逝去来不及道别";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "“如果你有一名99岁、患多种疾病的患者，还有一名需要插管的年轻小孩，但你只有一个呼吸器。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "If you have a 99-year-old patient with multiple diseases, and a young child who needs an intubation, you only have one respirator.
你不需要扔硬币来决定该选谁。
You don't have to toss a coin to decide who to pick.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
