湖北省总工会：拒录湖北籍或近期有湖北工作史员工违法。
Hubei Provincial General Union: It is illegal to record Hubei nationality or recent work history of Hubei staff.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国“ 用人单位招用人员，不得以是传染病病原携带者为由拒绝录用。
Source: Visual China "Employers may not refuse to hire employees on the grounds that they are carriers of infectious diseases."
用人单位违反规定，实施就业歧视的，劳动者可以向人民法院提起诉讼。
If an employing unit violates regulations and practices employment discrimination, the laborer may bring a suit before a people's court.
”据湖北省总工会消息，针对复工复产期间职工关注的热点问题，湖北省总工会近日组织职工法律服务团编制了《支持企业复工复产 维护职工合法权益法律服务指引》，其中对企业是否能因劳动者为湖北籍或近期有湖北工作史等就采取拒绝录用等相关劳动关系问题进行了明确回答。
According to the Hubei Provincial General Union, the General Union of Hubei Province recently organized a staff legal service mission to formulate a "Guide to Legal Services to Support Enterprises Returning to Work and Safeguarding the Legitimate Rights and Interests of Workers," which gives clear answers to such questions as whether enterprises can refuse to hire workers because they are Hubei nationals or because they have a recent work history.
问：企业能否因为劳动者是湖北籍或者近期有过湖北工作史，就采取拒绝录用、拒绝返岗复工或者解除劳动合同等就业歧视行为？答：不能。
Q: Can an enterprise, because its laborers are of Hubei nationality or have had a working history in Hubei Province recently, take discriminatory measures in employment such as refusing to hire, returning to work or terminating employment contracts? A: No.
根据《就业促进法》第三十条规定，用人单位招用人员，不得以是传染病病原携带者为由拒绝录用。
According to Article 30 of the Employment Promotion Law, an employing unit may not refuse to employ a person who is the carrier of an infectious disease.
但是，经医学鉴定传染病病原携带者在治愈前或者排除传染嫌疑前，不得从事法律、行政法规和国务院卫生行政部门规定禁止从事的易使传染病扩散的工作。
However, a carrier of a medically certified infectious disease shall not, before cure or before he is cleared of suspicion of infection, engage in any work liable to spread infectious diseases as prescribed by the law, administrative regulations and the administrative department of public health under the State Council.
《就业促进法》第六十二条规定，违反本法规定，实施就业歧视的，劳动者可以向人民法院提起诉讼。
Article 62 of the Employment Promotion Law stipulates that workers who commit discrimination in employment in violation of the provisions of this Law may file suit in a people's court.
《传染病防治法》第十六条规定，任何单位和个人不得歧视传染病病人、病原携带者和疑似传染病病人。
Article 16 of the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases stipulates that no unit or individual may discriminate against patients, pathogen carriers and suspected infectious disease patients.
企业可以要求劳动者提供医学证明或者14天的隔离记录以确保求职者身体无恙，不会感染其他员工。
The enterprise may require the worker to provide a medical certificate or a 14-day isolation record to ensure that the applicant is in good health and does not infect other employees.
问：用人单位可以拒绝录用曾经患有新型冠状病毒肺炎但已被治愈的人员吗？答：不可以。
Q: Can an employer refuse to employ a person who has been cured of the new coronavirus pneumonia? A: No.
根据《就业促进法》和《传染病防治法》相关规定，患有新型冠状病毒肺炎后被治愈的，用人单位不得以其曾经患有新型冠状病毒感染肺炎为由对其拒绝录用，更不得实施任何就业歧视行为。
According to the provisions of the Employment Promotion Law and the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Coronavirus, an employing unit that has been cured by the new coronavirus pneumonia may not refuse to accept employment on the ground that it has contracted pneumonia, nor shall it carry out any act of employment discrimination.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北省总工会：拒录湖北籍或近期有湖北工作史员工违法。
Hubei Provincial General Union: It is illegal to record Hubei nationality or recent work history of Hubei staff.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北省总工会：拒录湖北籍或近期有湖北工作史员工违法";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Hubei Provincial General Union: Refusal to register Hubei nationality or recent employment history with Hubei employees.
var msg_desc = "用人单位招用人员，不得以是传染病病原携带者为由拒绝录用。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Recruitment personnel may not be refused on the ground that they are carriers of an infectious disease.
用人单位违反规定，实施就业歧视的，劳动者可以向人民法院提起诉讼。
If an employing unit violates regulations and practices employment discrimination, the laborer may bring a suit before a people's court.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
