职业体育重挫，北美赛事损失已超50亿美元。
Professional sports have plummeted, losing more than $5 billion in North American tournaments.
李晓庄。
Li Xiaozhuang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
棒球运动损失了20亿美元，占总损失的40%。
Baseball lost $2 billion, or 40 per cent of the total.
（图片来源：MLB官网）记者：李晓庄“ 如果停摆时间不断延长或取消部分运动的整个赛季，总损失将超过100亿美元。
(Source: MLB News) Journalist: Li Xiaozhuang "If the suspension continues to prolong or cancel part of the campaign season, the total loss will exceed 10 billion US dollars.
”根据《福布斯》的估算，北美各大体育赛事因停赛而遭受的损失额至少为50亿美元，包括门票、特许经营权、赞助权和电视转播权等。
Forbes estimates that major sporting events in North America have suffered at least $5 billion in suspensions, including ticket sales, franchises, sponsorship and television rights.
其中，棒球运动损失20亿美元，占据总损失的40%。
Baseball lost $2 billion, or 40% of the total.
NBA和大学生篮球联赛（NCAA）则分别面临12亿和10亿美元的损失。
NBA and college basketball leagues (NCAA) face losses of $1.2 billion and $1 billion, respectively.
国家冰球联盟（NHL）、全国运动汽车竞赛协会（Nascar）和美国职业足球大联盟(MLS)遭受的总损失额约为9亿美元。
The National Hockey League (NHL), the National Athletic Racing Association (Nascar) and the Major League of Professional Football (MLS) suffered losses totalling about $900 million.
更加糟糕的是，如果停摆时间不断延长或取消部分运动的整个赛季，总损失将超过100亿美元。
Worse still, the total loss would be more than $10 billion if the rest of the season were to be extended or cancelled.
版权是各联盟的主要收入来源，也是造成损失的主要原因。
Copyright is the main source of revenue for the unions and the main cause of losses.
在NBA和NHL的转播合同中，季后赛是极为重要的部分。
The playoffs are an extremely important part of the NBA and NHL broadcast contracts.
媒体权利专家Chris Bevilacqua表示：“如果这些季后赛能够举行，那么联盟将能够保留全部或者大部分的转播权费用。
Media rights expert Chris Bevilacqua said: "If the playoffs can be held, the league will be able to retain all or most of the rights.
”然而，目前的情况对NBA十分不利。
However, the current situation is not good for the NBA.
按照原定赛程，季后赛将在4月中下旬开始。
According to the original schedule, the playoffs will begin in the second half of April.
但受到疫情影响，比赛难以重启，季后赛能否完整保留也在不断的讨论中。
But because of the epidemic, it is difficult to restart the game and the full playoffs are still being discussed.
根据Bevilacqua的说法，每份转播合同都包含有关于自然灾害、停工或其他极端情况下停赛的条款，双方可以就此进行协商。
According to Bevilacqua, each broadcast contract contains provisions for natural disasters, stoppage of work or suspension in other extreme cases, on which the parties may consult.
一般而言，根据取消的比赛数量，球队或联盟可以通过团队赞助或广告销售，向媒体合作伙伴提供额外的收益。
In general, depending on the number of matches cancelled, teams or leagues can offer additional benefits to media partners through team sponsorship or advertising sales.
也可以选择将之包括到未来的版权费用中。
Alternatively, it could be included in future copyright costs.
不过截止到目前，大多数比赛都只是被推迟而非取消，所以围绕票务、赞助和转播费的退款问题也都还没有进行讨论。
But so far, most competitions have been postponed rather than canceled, so the issue of refunds for tickets, sponsorships and relays has not been discussed.
对于各联盟来说，退钱也并非上乘的选择。
For the unions, a refund is not a good option.
南佛罗里达大学体育与娱乐商业管理MBA项目创始人Bill Sutton表示:“应该让其它选择比拿回钱更有吸引力。
Bill Sutton, founder of the MBA programme in sports and entertainment business management at the University of South Florida, said: "The alternative should be more attractive than getting the money back.
”1990年代中期，MLB在两个赛季中都遭遇了停摆。
In the mid-1990s, the MLB suffered a two-season hiatus.
在这种情况下，赞助商得到了其他形式的补偿，例如乘坐球队的飞机出行、获得礼品积分等等。
In such cases, sponsors are compensated in other ways, such as travelling on a team's plane, getting points for gifts, etc.
除版权损失外，停摆还带来了衍生的经济问题。
In addition to copyright losses, the pause has created economic spin-offs.
根据《福布斯》的报道，各赛事主办城市将遭受约数百万美元的损失，但这难以进行准确的量化。
Host cities will suffer millions of dollars in losses, but that is difficult to quantify accurately, Forbes reports.
以2019年国家橄榄球联盟选秀会（National Football League Draft） 为例，这一活动吸引了约60万人前往纳什维尔，并为该地区创造了2.24亿美元的经济收入。
Consider the 2019 National Football League Draft, which attracted some 600,000 people to Nashville and generated $224 million in economic revenue for the region.
今年的选秀将于4月底在拉斯维加斯举行，但禁止观众入场。
This year's draft will be held in Las Vegas at the end of April, but spectators are banned.
不仅如此，相关从业人员也因为赛事的暂停而失去了部分或全部收入。
Not only that, but workers have lost some or all of their income as a result of the suspension.
目前，NBA劳资协议中的“末日条款”允许球队在因 “不可抗力”取消比赛后将球员的工资减少1/ 92.6。
The NBA's "Doomsday Clause" currently allows teams to cut a player's salary by one-ninth of a percentage point after a "force majeure" cancellation.
如果触发这一条款，那么平均每个球员将会损失约150万美元，联盟收入最高的球员斯蒂芬·库里的收入将缩水800万美元。
If triggered, the average player would lose about $1.5 million and the league's highest-paid player, Stephen Currie, would lose $8 million.
相比较平均工资数百万美元的球员，体育场保安、看门人和建筑工等依附比赛生存的员工面临更大的困境。
Compared with millions of dollars in average wages, stadium security, gatekeepers, and construction workers who depend on the games face even greater hardship.
停赛之后，这些小时工或兼职人员彻底失去了收入。
After the suspension, these hourly or part-time workers lost all their income.
目前，大多数球队的老板已经承诺将在停摆期间内给这部分员工支付工资。
At the moment, most team bosses have promised to pay their employees for the rest of the period.
同时，也有球星进行捐款，以帮助失业的兼职人员。
At the same time, there are stars who donate to help unemployed part-time workers.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
职业体育重挫，北美赛事损失已超50亿美元。
Professional sports have plummeted, losing more than $5 billion in North American tournaments.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "职业体育重挫，北美赛事损失已超50亿美元";。
var msg _ title = & quot; professional sport plummeted, with North American racing losing more than $5 billion;;
var msg_desc = "如果停摆时间不断延长或取消部分运动的整个赛季，总损失将超过100亿美元。
var msg _ desc = & quot; if the pause continues or parts of the campaign are cancelled throughout the season, the total will exceed $10 billion.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
