许成钢：应对危机，大规模免税比直接发钱更好。
Xu Chenggang: In response to the crisis, large-scale tax exemption is better than direct money.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
The following article comes from 界面商学院。
The following article comes from the interface business school.
Author 许成刚。
Author Xu Chenggang.
界面商学院。
Interface Business School.
扎根事实，演绎趋势，接地气的商业智慧，尽在界面商学院。
Take root in fact, deduce trends, grounding the business wisdom of gas, all at the interface of business schools.
。
.
图片来源：视觉中国采访：黄锫坚“ “当前的核心问题不是经济增长，而是保命，保企业的命，保家庭的命，保经济的命。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn The core issue of the moment is not economic growth, but life-saving, protecting the lives of enterprises, families and the economy.
””新冠肺炎已在全球掀起滔天巨浪。
New Crown Pneumonia has caused huge waves around the world.
人们关注各国确诊人数的你追我赶，更为24小时接力的股市跌荡心生忐忑。
People are concerned about the number of people diagnosed in various countries to catch up, more 24-hour stock market tumbling perturbed.
从欧洲到美国，防疫战略的要点到底是什么？美联储和各国央行的救市政策，能否支撑多次熔断的股市？这一次危机会对经济基本面造成多大冲击？带着这些疑问，界面新闻记者3月19日电话采访了长江商学院教授许成钢。
With questions about whether the US Federal Reserve and central banks' rescue policies can support the stock market, which has collapsed many times, and how much impact this crisis will have on economic fundamentals, interface journalist Xu Chenggang spoke to Changjiang Business School professor Xu Chenggang by telephone on March 19.
许成钢比一般意义上的经济学家更关心各国的制度比较，他研究的主题包括乡镇企业奇迹如何发生，苏联与东欧转轨失利的制度原因，也曾对金融危机有过深入研究。
Xu Chenggang is more concerned about national systems than economists in general. His research topics include how miracles happen in township enterprises, the institutional reasons for the Soviet Union's failings with Eastern Europe, and deep research into the financial crisis.
2016年他与钱颖一获得了北京当代经济学基金会颁发的首届中国经济学奖，2013年许成钢获得孙冶方经济学奖。
In 2016, he and Qian received the first China Economics Award from the Beijing Foundation for Contemporary Economics, and in 2013 Xu Chenggang won the Sun Yifang Prize in Economics.
在此次访谈中，许成钢认为，控制疫情的关键是大规模的病毒检测，确诊后尽早隔离和治疗。
In this interview, Xu Chenggang believes that the key to control the epidemic is large-scale virus detection, early isolation and treatment after diagnosis.
韩国、德国在这方面做得好，才能控制住疫情。
South Korea and Germany have done a good job in this regard, to control the epidemic.
而美国白宫存在很大失误，应该更早大规模检测。
The White House made a big mistake and should have been tested earlier.
从传染病学专家的模型来看，新冠肺炎的蔓延已不可阻挡。
From the infectious disease experts model, the spread of new crown pneumonia has become unstoppable.
在当前这个时点，英国、美国采取的基本措施，就是想办法把高峰压下去，即把短期患病人数的增长曲线压扁，拉长时间。
At this point in time, the basic measures taken by Britain and the United States are to try to keep the peak down by flattening out the growth curve for the short-term ill.
因为当高峰来临时，会把整个医疗体系搞垮。
Because when the rush hour comes, the whole health-care system collapses.
意大利、伊朗的情况就是如此。
This is the case in Italy and Iran.
美联储和各国央行的救市措施该如何评价呢？许成钢解释说，把这些预防金融危机的措施误认为是救股市，是相当不完整的理解。
Xu explained that it was' rather incomplete 'to mistake the measures to prevent the financial crisis for a bailout of the stock market.
防止金融危机，不是单纯为了金融市场，主要是为了基本面，因为金融危机会引发大规模的企业和家庭破产。
Preventing financial crises is not just about financial markets, but about fundamentals, because financial crises can trigger large-scale bankruptcies of businesses and households.
在他看来，面对危机，首先应尽快控制传染病。
In his view, in the face of the crisis, infectious diseases should be brought under control.
现在的医学技术、疫苗、药物肯定可以解决问题，但是需要时间。
Today's medical technologies, vaccines, and drugs will certainly solve the problem, but it will take time.
当我们全面控制住疫情时，如果没做好经济准备，后果就是很多企业、家庭会破产。
When we bring the epidemic under full control, if we are not economically prepared, the result is that many businesses and households will go bankrupt.
那就是真正的难以恢复的大灾难。
That is a real disaster that is difficult to recover from.
所以，现在应该直接把资金送给要破产的企业和家庭，保障他们不破产。
So it is time to send money directly to businesses and families that are going bankrupt, to keep them afloat.
“当前的核心问题不是经济增长，而是保命，保企业的命，保家庭的命，保经济的命。
"The core issue at hand is not economic growth, but the preservation of life, the lives of enterprises, families, and the economy.
”但许成钢并不认为直接向民众发钱是最好的办法。
But Mr Xu does not believe that giving money directly to the people is the best way.
中国的大部分就业在中小企业，一定要避免大规模中小企业的破产。
Most jobs in China were in small and medium-sized enterprises, which must be avoided.
他再次重复自己提过的建议——立即大规模免除中小企业的税和费，以及所有和政府相关的地租。
He repeated his own suggestion of a massive and immediate waiver of taxes and fees for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as all government-related government rents.
全面的免，能免的都免。
Full exemption, no exemption.
而且这些措施应该尽快实施，已经存在的所有失业救济、失业保险制度，应立即全面启动。
These measures should be implemented as soon as possible, and all unemployment benefits and unemployment insurance systems already in place should be fully activated without delay.
如果等到大量企业破产和解雇员工后再实施，经济就很难恢复了。
If you wait until a lot of companies go bankrupt and lay off workers, it's hard to get the economy back on track.
在访谈最后，很少在采访中使用感情词汇的许成钢说，这不是他的一家之言，而是经济学的基本理念，也是全球发达国家的普遍做法。
At the end of the interview, Xu Chenggang, who rarely uses emotive words in interviews, said that this was not his family's statement, but a basic concept of economics and a common practice in developed countries around the world.
“真正碰到大困难时，经济学还是有点用的。
"Economics works a little bit when it comes to real big trouble.
”他的意思是，帮助决策层在危机关头做出正确方案，是经济学家最大的使命。
What he meant was that helping policymakers make the right decisions in times of crisis was economists "biggest mission.
下面为访谈实录：界面新闻：从您本人的角度，能否评价一下英美、欧盟等国的疫情防控政策？控制疫情蔓延的重点到底是什么？许成钢：我目前在英国，我更多关注英国、美国、欧盟和中国的情况。
From your own point of view, could you comment on the prevention and control policies in Britain, the United States, the European Union and other countries? What is the focus on controlling the spread of the epidemic?
英国的情况还好，疫情在控制范围内。
Britain is doing fine. The epidemic is under control.
全球对比的话，英国控制的程度和美国大体相似，包括传染的范围、确诊人数及其占人口的比例，还有死亡率方面，都显著低于其他国家。
In global terms, the degree of control in the UK is broadly similar to that in the US, including the extent of the infection, the number of people diagnosed and their proportion of the population, and mortality rates, which are significantly lower than in other countries.
全球对比的话，做得最好的大国，应该是德国、韩国和日本。
In the global comparison, the best-performing countries should be Germany, South Korea, and Japan.
有趣的是，德、韩、日是一个类型的资本主义制度，英美是另一个类型的资本主义国家。
Interestingly, Germany, Korea, and Japan are one type of capitalism, and the United States and the US are another.
小的国家和地区，比如中国的香港和台湾、新加坡都做得相当好。
Smaller countries and regions, such as Hong Kong in China and Taiwan and Singapore, have done fairly well.
当然它们有特殊性，相对容易控制一点。
Of course, they are special and relatively easy to control.
德国这次做得非常优秀，死亡率特别低，跟意大利又这么近，很不容易。
Germany has done very well this time, the death rate is exceptionally low, and it is not easy to be so close to Italy.
世界卫生组织的最新统计数字，德国确诊8200，死亡13人。
The latest figures from the World Health Organization put the number of confirmed deaths at 8,200 in Germany at 13.
这主要因为德国的病毒检测非常广泛。
This is mainly because German virus detection is very extensive.
一方面，确诊人数多，则基数大，死亡率会变小。
On the one hand, the number of people diagnosed is large and the mortality rate decreases.
另一方面，检测广泛，就能把轻症的人送去隔离。
On the other hand, extensive testing can isolate people with mild illness.
其实，很多人是因为确诊太晚才会重症和死亡。
In fact, many people are diagnosed too late for serious illness and death.
韩国的优点也是大规模检测，保证确诊得早。
South Korea also has the advantage of mass testing to ensure early diagnosis.
英国早先一段也是这么做的。
Britain did the same in an earlier paragraph.
英国整体死亡率比较低，也是因为前期大规模检测。
Britain's overall mortality rate is low, also because of early mass testing.
但后来发现检测力量不够，就放松了，放松后遭到很多传染病学专家的批评。
But when it turned out that the tests were not strong enough, they relaxed and were criticized by many infectious disease experts.
在美国，显然特朗普政府犯了错误。
In the US, it is clear that Trump's administration has made mistakes.
事实上美国有充分的时间准备，有能力提前准备好大规模的检测能力。
In fact, the United States has ample time to prepare and be able to prepare for large-scale testing ahead of schedule.
当然，美国是联邦制度，地方有很大的自主权，很大程度上还可以补救和应对。
Of course, the United States is a federal system, with considerable local autonomy that can be remedied and addressed to a large extent.
界面新闻：怎么评价美联储的救市政策，美国政府对经济和股市的关心似乎超过对疫情和健康的投入。
Interface News: How to evaluate the Fed's rescue policy, the U. S. government seems to care more about the economy and the stock market than about the epidemic and health investment.
这里面有哪些缘由，或者说是误读吗？许成钢：白宫是总统领导的行政机构，美联储与白宫是有区别的。
Hsu: The White House is an administration headed by the President, and there is a difference between the Federal Reserve and the White House.
美联储是在放松货币供给，但美联储是独立的，是独立作出判断和操作的，白宫原则上不能命令美联储做什么、不做什么。
The Fed is loosening the money supply, but it is independent, judging and operating independently, and the White House cannot, in principle, dictate what the Fed should do or not do.
美联储向市场大规模提供流动性，是对金融市场做的独立判断和采取的措施。
The Fed's massive provision of liquidity to markets is an independent judgment and a step in the direction of financial markets.
而白宫犯了很多错误，本可以更早动用行政措施，比如大规模准备检测手段，大规模在入境口岸检测，还有重要的药物和设备的提前准备。
The White House made a lot of mistakes, and could have used administrative measures earlier, such as mass-readiness testing, mass testing at ports of entry, and the early preparation of vital drugs and equipment.
如果把防疫比作战争，在战争情况下，司令部依赖参谋部提供方案。
If immunization is likened to war, in war situations the command relies on the general staff for programmes.
疫情下最大的参谋部就是传染病专家。
The biggest staff in the epidemic is an infectious diseases specialist.
早在二月中，很多专家已经相当准确的预测到现在的情况。
As early as mid-February, many experts were quite accurate in predicting what was happening.
作为司令官，白宫没有听取参谋部（传染病专家）的意见。
As commander, the White House did not listen to the general staff (infectious disease experts).
我说的传染病学专家，包括哈佛大学、英国帝国理工学院、香港大学的预测，都很出名。
The infectious disease experts I speak of, including Harvard University, Imperial College of England and the University of Hong Kong, are well known for their predictions.
最近几天，从疫情防控角度看，英国、美国的一系列措施高度相似。
In recent days, a series of measures in Britain and the United States have been highly similar in terms of epidemic prevention and control.
有媒体报告说，看起来英美联合采取了同一个办法，其背后大概是依赖的伦敦帝国理工学院做的模型（相关报告的网址）。
There are media reports that it appears that the United States and the United States have adopted the same approach, probably backed by the model developed by Imperial College London (the web site of the relevant report).
当然，美国有很强的传染病专家，包括CDC的专家，他们做的模型和帝国理工的模型性质上基本一致，所以判断也是相似的。
Of course, the US has a strong team of infectious disease experts, including CDC experts, whose models are essentially the same in nature as those of Imperial Science, so the judgments are similar.
英国、美国采取的基本措施，就是想办法把高峰压下去，即把短期患病人数的增长压下去。
The basic measure taken by Britain and the United States is to try to keep the peak down, that is, to keep down the growth of short-term illness.
从传染病学专家的模型来看，新冠肺炎传染病的蔓延是不可阻挡了。
From the infectious disease experts model, the spread of the new crown pneumonia infectious disease is unstoppable.
现在能做的，就是把蔓延的高峰压扁，这意味着拖延时间。
What you can do now is squash the peak of contagion, which means procrastinating.
因为当高峰来时，会把整个医疗体系搞垮。
Because when the rush hour comes, the whole health care system collapses.
从武汉、湖北早期情况，以及意大利、伊朗的大规模死亡来说，都是因为蔓延的速度过于快，高峰太高，导致整个医疗体系的崩溃。
In Wuhan and early Hubei, as well as mass deaths in Italy and Iran, the spread was too rapid, with peaks too high, leading to the collapse of the entire health-care system.
战疫的当务之急是把高峰压下去，让患病人数在医疗体系的应对范围内，医疗体系就可以控制疫情。
The immediate priority of the epidemic is to keep the peak under control and bring the number of cases within the health-care system.
德国的优秀之处就是控制住了。
The best thing about Germany is that it's under control.
一是大规模检测，检测确诊马上隔离，这使得确诊人数能被控制住。
One is mass testing, where the number of people diagnosed can be brought under control by immediate isolation.
二是德国的医疗体系很强大，所以死亡率就很低。
Second, Germany has a strong health-care system, so the death rate is low.
只有这样的措施才会使死亡率极低，与流感相似。
Only such a measure would result in a very low death rate, similar to that of influenza.
但是，那是德国干预成功的结果。
But that was the result of a successful German intervention.
处理得好的情况，这个病就是流感，跟德国情况类似。
Well handled, the disease is flu, similar to that in Germany.
界面新闻：您在半个多月前已经提过，中央银行要向市场提前提供充足的流动性。
Interface News: As you mentioned more than half a month ago, central banks need to provide sufficient liquidity to the market in advance.
当时是出于怎样的理由？如何评价美联储最近几天的救市措施？许成钢：我所有讨论的基点，是避免金融危机。
What were the reasons for that? How to evaluate the Fed's rescue efforts in recent days? Xu Chenggang: All I discussed was avoiding the financial crisis.
金融危机是我过去曾经认真研究过的一个内容，因此我对相关问题是比较敏感的。
The financial crisis is an element that I have studied carefully in the past, so I am sensitive to the relevant issues.
当疫情冲击来临，在2月下旬，我们已经能看出它对基本面的重大冲击，会在金融市场引起严重后果，即流动性萎缩。
When the epidemic hits, in late February, we can already see a major impact on fundamentals, with dire consequences for financial markets, namely, shrinking liquidity.
而流动性萎缩会自动触发金融危机。
And shrinking liquidity automatically triggers financial crises.
所以，中央银行必须要提前做准备。
So central banks must be prepared in advance.
我相信，中央银行的专家、所有有经验的人，只要见到流动性大规模萎缩的趋势，一定会想办法向市场补充流动性，以避免金融危机的发生。
I am sure that experts from central banks, all experienced people, who see a massive liquidity contraction, will find ways to replenish the market to avoid a financial crisis.
把这些预防金融危机的措施误认为是救股市，是相当不完整的理解，甚至有错误。
It is rather incomplete and even erroneous to mistake these measures to prevent financial crisis for saving the stock market.
现在已经发生了流动性大规模萎缩。
There has been a massive liquidity contraction.
这里的流动性，就是说流动资产，现金或者政府债券，立刻可以买卖的东西。
Liquidity, that is, liquid assets, cash or government bonds, is something that can be bought and sold immediately.
流动性没了，就是说在市场剧烈跌落时，所有明白人会抓住流动性不放，因为流动性是生命线。
Liquidity is gone, meaning that when the market falls sharply, all sensible white people will cling to it, because liquidity is the lifeline.
如果所有人都抓住流动性不放，这些流动性自动就变成不流动了。
If everyone grasps the liquidity, it automatically becomes stagnant.
人们抓住现金和债券不放手，流动性就没了。
People hold on to cash and bonds, and liquidity is gone.
当市场严重缺失流动性，使得很多企业、家庭（例如在抵押资产价值下跌时，银行可以要求家庭提前还房屋的抵押贷款，否则有权把作为抵押的房地产收回拍卖）不能还债，就会破产。
When the market is so illiquid that many businesses and households (for example, when the value of the mortgage asset falls, the bank can require the family to repay the mortgage on the house in advance, otherwise it has the right to take back the mortgage on the property) cannot pay its debts and will go bankrupt.
我们为什么关心金融危机，最大关心的是它对基本面的影响，我们关心的是企业的大量破产。
Why we care about the financial crisis, the biggest concern is its impact on the fundamentals, we are concerned about the large number of corporate bankruptcy.
金融企业、非金融企业、家庭的破产，会对基本面造成的重大冲击。
The bankruptcy of financial enterprises, non-financial enterprises and households will have a major impact on the fundamentals.
防止金融危机，不是单纯为了金融市场，主要是为了基本面。
Financial crisis prevention is not just for financial markets, but mainly for fundamentals.
金融危机的来临会引发大规模的企业和家庭的破产。
The advent of the financial crisis will trigger large-scale corporate and household bankruptcy.
现在疫情导致金融危机的趋势已经非常清楚，无论美联储、欧洲央行、英国中央银行，都在出手释放大规模的流动性，避免最坏情况出现。
Now that the epidemic has led to a financial crisis, it is clear that the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, and the British Central Bank are all unleashing massive liquidity to avoid a worst-case scenario.
同时，直接由中央银行出手，营救要破产的企业，可以买企业的债券。
At the same time, the central bank directly to rescue enterprises to go bankrupt, can buy corporate bonds.
企业需要钱，通过买企业债券的方式，直接给企业流动性。
Enterprises need money, through the purchase of corporate bonds, direct liquidity to the enterprise.
在股票、债券市场上释放资金，无论怎么放松，可能都没用。
Releasing money in stocks and bond markets, no matter how relaxed, may not work.
濒临破产的企业，可以用这种方式来救。
Businesses on the verge of bankruptcy can be rescued in this way.
只要企业在市场上卖债券，中央银行就买。
The central bank buys bonds as long as they sell them in the market.
用这个办法来避免企业的大规模破产。
This way, large-scale bankruptcies of enterprises can be avoided.
这次的金融危机，来源不是金融系统、经济系统出的问题，而是经济之外的冲击。
This financial crisis, the source is not the financial system, the economic system, but the impact outside the economy.
面对疫情带来的危机，最重要的有两点。
In the face of the crisis brought about by the epidemic, two things are of paramount importance.
首先是尽快控制传染病。
The first is to control infectious diseases quickly.
这个困难肯定将能克服，现在的医学技术、疫苗、药物肯定可以解决问题，但是需要时间。
This difficulty will certainly be overcome. Today's medical technologies, vaccines and drugs will certainly solve the problem, but it will take time.
那么，一年、一年半后，当我们全面控制住疫情时，经济怎么恢复？现在必须准备。
So how will the economy recover in a year, a year and a half from now, when we have full control of the epidemic? Now we must be prepared.
如果没做好准备，后果就是很多企业、家庭会破产。
If not prepared, the result is that many businesses and families will go bankrupt.
疫情过去了，但企业破产了，家庭也散伙了，那就是真正的难以恢复的大灾难。
The epidemic is over, but the business is bankrupt and the family is broken up. It is a real disaster that is difficult to recover from.
所以，第二个要做的准备就是直接把资金送给要破产的企业和家庭，保障企业、家庭不破产。
So the second thing to do is to give money directly to businesses and families that are going bankrupt and to keep businesses and families afloat.
只要疫情控制住，经济会复苏的。
The economy will recover as long as the epidemic is under control.
要保证经济能恢复，一定要做事。
We must do something to ensure that the economy recovers.
就是保护企业不要破产、家庭不要破产。
To protect businesses from bankruptcy and families from bankruptcy.
把资源直接送过去。
Send resources directly to you.
这里核心的问题不是经济增长本身，而是保命，保企业的命，保家庭的命，保经济的命。
The core issue here is not economic growth per se, but life-saving, to protect the lives of enterprises, to protect the lives of families, to protect economic life.
为什么在正常情况下不可以这么做？因为，在正常运行下，企业破产，企业解雇雇员，都是市场机制的一个核心成分。
Why not do this under normal circumstances? Because, under normal operations, bankruptcy and layoffs are a core component of the market mechanism.
这个核心成分不能破坏，不然市场无法正常运作。
This core element cannot be destroyed, otherwise the market will not function properly.
但现在不是市场竞争的问题，不是某些企业做得不好，而是外来冲击。
But this is not a question of competition in the market, not some enterprises do not do well, but external shocks.
当我们讨论政府和企业的关系时，在这个背景下，政府的作用就是必须出手，大规模救助企业，避免金融危机，救援市场、企业和家庭。
When we talk about the relationship between government and business, the role of government in this context is to have to bail out businesses on a massive scale, avoid financial crises, and rescue markets, businesses, and households.
界面新闻：中国应该采取哪些措施来应对这次危机呢？许成钢：中国面对的冲击与其他国家一样非常严重，甚至更严重，因为疫情发源自中国，至今很大破坏是在中国发生的。
Interface News: What measures should China take to deal with the crisis? Xu Chenggang: China faces the same severe impact as other countries, even worse, because the outbreak originated in China and much of the damage has been done in China.
中国政府、央行应该学习成熟发达国家的政府和央行的做法。
The Chinese government and central banks should follow the example of the governments and central banks of mature developed countries.
中国有自己的特殊情况，但原则上是可以学的，根据自己的实际情况调整。
China has its own special circumstances, but in principle it can learn and adjust to its own actual situation.
第一，必须尽最大努力避免金融危机，向市场释放流动性。
First, every effort must be made to avoid financial crises and release liquidity to markets.
第二，单纯避免金融危机还不够，因为中国有巨大量的企业和金融市场无直接关系。
Second, simply avoiding a financial crisis is not enough, because China has a large number of companies that have no direct relationship with financial markets.
政府必须出手，直接帮助企业渡过难关，避免企业大规模破产。
Governments must act directly to help businesses tide over difficulties and avoid large-scale corporate bankruptcies.
中国的基本情况是，大部分就业在中小企业。
The basic picture in China is that the majority of jobs are in SMEs.
所以一定要避免大规模中小企业的破产。
It was therefore important to avoid the bankruptcy of large-scale SMEs.
它们的生存非常困难，怎样帮它？我愿意再重复一遍过去说过的建议，最容易做的事，不需要专门设计方案的，就是立即大规模免除中小企业的税和费，以及所有和政府相关的地租。
How can I help them survive? I would like to repeat what I have suggested in the past. The easiest thing to do without a special design is to immediately and massively waive taxes and fees for SMEs, as well as all government-related government rent.
全面的免，能免的都免。
Full exemption, no exemption.
原则上，这个时候，政府应该大规模送钱营救中小企业，和失业半失业的雇员，但问题是该怎么送钱营救他们？其实，设计送钱的方案相当困难。
In principle, at this point, the government should send large amounts of money to rescue small and medium-sized enterprises and unemployed and semi-unemployed employees, but the question is how to send money to rescue them.
最简单的办法就是直截了当把税免了。
The simplest way is to simply waive the tax.
政府自己的开销应该另想办法。
The government should find another way to spend itself.
此外，个人所得税方面，可以全面抬高缴税门槛。
In addition, the individual income tax threshold can be raised across the board.
即，所有收入达不到新门槛的人，都不交税，让巨大量的中低收入者免税，让大量的人免税。
That is, all those whose incomes do not meet the new threshold do not pay taxes, leaving a large number of middle- and low-income people exempt from taxes and a large number of people from taxes.
这是最容易的、政府送钱给急需救助的人群的办法。
This is the easiest way for the government to send money to people in dire need.
现在，不论美国、欧盟还是英国，都在启动政府直接给大家发钱，香港已经在他们之前实施。
Now, whether in the US, the European Union, or the United Kingdom, governments are starting to give money directly to everyone, and Hong Kong has done so before them.
但我不认为直接发钱是最好的办法。
But I don't think it's the best way to send money directly.
因为这种发钱的办法，不分穷人、富人。
Because this method of distributing money, does not distinguish between the poor and the rich.
而用免税的办法，可以清楚的直接帮助到需要帮助的人。
And with the method of tax exemption, can clearly directly help people in need.
现在需要的是雪中送炭，即企业、家庭需要的是生存，你要帮他，就把负担全部取消。
What is needed now is to give something in the snow, that is, the enterprise, the family needs to survive, if you want to help him, remove the burden completely.
雪中送炭是中国政府现在必须做的事，而且应该做得更快。
China's government must now do more, and more quickly.
已经存在的所有的失业救济、失业保险制度，应该立即全面启动。
All unemployment benefits and unemployment insurance systems that already exist should be fully activated without delay.
哪怕很多中小企业的雇员还没正式失业，就应该全面启动，按失业情况处理。
Even if many SME employees are not officially unemployed, they should be fully activated and dealt with on an unemployment basis.
以此避免企业破产。
To avoid bankruptcy.
因为等到大量企业破产和解雇后，经济就很难恢复了。
Because after a lot of companies go bankrupt and get laid off, it's hard for the economy to recover.
这些原则和做法是美国、欧盟各国和英国都在做的，而不仅仅是我个人的看法，这是我们当年做学生时就学到的，经济学的基本理念。
These principles and practices are what the US, the EU, and the UK are doing, not just my own opinion, which is the basic philosophy of economics that we learned as students.
真正碰到大困难时，经济学还是有点用的。
Economics works a bit when it comes to real big trouble.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
许成钢：应对危机，大规模免税比直接发钱更好。
Xu Chenggang: In response to the crisis, large-scale tax exemption is better than direct money.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "许成钢：应对危机，大规模免税比直接发钱更好";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Hsu: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“当前的核心问题不是经济增长，而是保命，保企业的命，保家庭的命，保经济的命。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "The central issue now is not economic growth, but saving lives, protecting businesses, protecting families, and protecting the economy.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
