清华大学药学院院长丁胜：国内疫情回落，此前上马的临床试验可在海外继续。
Dean of Tsinghua University School of Pharmacy Ding Sheng: The domestic epidemic has receded, prior to the start of clinical trials can continue overseas.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼 编辑：许悦“ 丁胜还认为，对健康人群不进行干预的群体性免疫存在较大风险。
Journalist: Xu Yue also believes that there is a greater risk of not intervening in the mass immunization of healthy people.
”随着国内疫情的回落，新冠治疗药物、疫苗的筛选及研发，开始面临挑战。
As the epidemic recedes at home, screening and research and development for new crown treatments and vaccines are beginning to face challenges.
“如果没有这个疾病了，那么可以想像未来就像SARS一样，对这个疾病药物、疫苗的研究，从理论上来讲有效性验证就几乎不可能做了。
"Without the disease, it is conceivable that future research on drugs and vaccines for the disease, like SARS, would in theory be virtually impossible to verify.
”丁胜教授对界面新闻表示。
Professor Ding told Interface News.
丁胜是清华大学药学院院长，同时也是全球健康药物研发中心（GHDDI）主任。
Ding Sheng is Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy at Tsinghua University and Director of the Global Centre for Health Medicine (GHDDI).
2003年，SARS疫情期间，也有国内外企业进行SARS疫苗的研发。
In 2003, during the SARS epidemic, domestic and foreign enterprises also conducted research and development of SARS vaccines.
但是当疫苗能够进行大规模试验时，疫情却已近尾声，无法验证疫苗的有效性。
But when the vaccine was able to be tested on a large scale, it was too late to verify its efficacy.
但随着新冠疫情在全球范围内的发酵，丁胜认为当前情况下，为了进一步验证此前国内临床使用药物的有效性，可以“抓住窗口期，在海外进一步验证药物的有效性”。
But as the new crown outbreak ferments around the world, Ding believes that under the current circumstances, in order to further verify the effectiveness of the previous domestic clinical use of drugs, can "seize the window period, further test the effectiveness of drugs overseas."
而由于新冠疫情最早在中国暴发，中国在新冠药物的筛选方面积累了一定的数据、经验和教训。
Due to the outbreak of the new crown disease in China, China has accumulated some data, experiences and lessons in the screening of new crown drugs.
“比如说，国内之前的临床资源分配具有一定的不合理性，可能导致一些本有可能发挥作用的药物，不能够被快速、有效地鉴定出来。
"For example, the prior allocation of clinical resources at home is irrational and may lead to potentially effective drugs that cannot be quickly and effectively identified.
针对某些药物，我们可以基于最新的认知，重新设计、调整临床方案。
For some drugs, we can redesign and adjust clinical protocols based on the latest knowledge.
”此前在姜庆五等人发表的《关于科学、规范、有序地开展新型冠状病毒肺炎相关临床试验的建议》中就已经表示，理论上每个试验药物需要800-1000名患者参与，而如果文章发表时的100多项研究都满足样本量需求，显然不可能有这么多患者。
As previously stated in Jiang Qinghe et al. 's Proposal for Scientific, Normative and Orderly Clinical Trials Related to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia, it is clear that there would not have been so many patients per trial drug if more than 100 studies at the time of publication had satisfied the sample size.
界面新闻记者在中国临床试验注册中心检索“新型冠状病毒”相关的临床试验，结果显示，截至3月19日，共有459项相关临床试验开展。
As of March 19, 459 clinical trials related to the coronavirus have been conducted, according to the interface reporter who conducted clinical trials related to the new coronavirus at the China Clinical Trials Registry.
研究的样本量不够，则可能导致试验难以获得预期的结论。
The insufficient sample size of the study may make it difficult to reach the expected conclusions.
3月初，界面新闻曾经报道，瑞德西韦临床试验过程中无法找到足够的患者入组。
Early in March, Interface News reported that Rhetsevier was unable to find enough patients in the clinical trials.
其中一个原因就是匆忙上马的各类临床试验，占用了大量患者及临床资源，造成潜在有效的药物的临床试验受阻。
One reason for this is the rush to start clinical trials, which take up a large number of patients and clinical resources, hampering clinical trials of potentially effective drugs.
在此后的《中国-世界卫生组织新型冠状病毒肺炎联合考察报告》中也建议：“应考虑在中国建立集中的研究项目以统筹并确保最有希望的研究，能得到充分的支持并具有研究优先权。
In a subsequent report on the joint China-WHO study of coronavirus pneumonia, it was suggested that "consideration should be given to setting up a centralized research project in China to coordinate and ensure that the most promising research can be adequately supported and given research priority.
”随着国内疫情的回落，及海外疫情的发酵，丁胜表示关于药物有效性的研究可以在海外继续。
"Ding said research into the effectiveness of drugs could continue overseas as the epidemic in China recedes and overseas epidemics develop.
因为从科学角度上看，一个药物开展全球多中心的临床试验是一个常见的现象。
Because from a scientific point of view, it is common for a drug to conduct a global multicenter clinical trial.
目前中国已经没有更多合适的患者入组，但是国外可以对中国过去一个多月的情况进行总结，进行更充分、更严谨的有效性和安全性的验证。
At present, there are no more suitable patients in China, but foreign countries can summarize the situation in China in the past month or so and verify the effectiveness and safety more fully and rigorously.
“我们当时面临的情况很紧急，对于新冠病毒并没有既往的认知作为开展临床试验的基础，但目前海外已有疫情的国家可以基于已有的认知，更充分的开展这样的研究。
"The urgency of the situation we faced was that there was no prior knowledge of the new crown virus as a basis for clinical trials, but countries with existing epidemics overseas could more fully conduct such research based on existing knowledge."
”丁胜说道。
'said Ding.
丁胜认为中国的用药经验也可以为针对全球特殊高危人群的保护性用药策略做出贡献。
Ding believes that China's drug use experience can also contribute to protective drug use strategies for particularly high-risk groups around the world.
“保护性用药”，是指通过对健康人群的防控和保护，预防病毒或传染病的感染和传播。
"Protective medicine" refers to the prevention of infection and transmission of viruses or infectious diseases through the prevention and protection of healthy people.
此前，公众较为熟悉的是针对艾滋病高危人群的保护性用药，目的是降低感染概率。
Previously, the public was more familiar with protective drugs for people at high risk of AIDS, with the aim of reducing the probability of infection.
近期，英国的群体性免疫引发热议，英国首席科学顾问Patrick Vallance此前表示，因为短期不可能彻底消灭病毒，考虑长期防控目标，要让英国6600万人口中60％感染冠状病毒，产生 “群体免疫” 。
A recent debate over mass immunization in Britain has prompted a debate, with Patrick Vallance, Britain's chief science adviser, saying that since complete elimination of the virus is not possible in the short term, the long-term goal is to infect 60 percent of the UK's 66 million people with coronavirus, creating "mass immunization."
丁胜认为对健康人群不进行干预的群体性免疫存在较大风险。
Ding Shengsheng believes that there is a great risk of not intervening in the group immunity of healthy people.
在疫苗问世前，可以验证通过保护性用药的方式对高危人群进行防护。
Prior to the advent of vaccines, it was possible to verify the protection of high-risk populations through protective medicines.
“国内之前的临床试验中，也有部分‘老药新用’显示出了一定效果。
"In previous clinical trials at home, some of the older drugs have also shown some effects.
可以在这部分药物中有选择地开展保护性临床试验。
Selective protective clinical trials can be conducted in this part of the drug.
”同时，部分可以提高免疫力的药物也可以考虑进行保护性用药的验证。
At the same time, some immune-boosting drugs could also be considered for testing protective drugs.
但丁胜认为，保护性用药也需要像疫苗一样在有基线感染的人群中进行有效性验证。
Protective medication, Dante argues, also needs to be validated as a vaccine in people with baseline infections.
“如果这个病毒没有了，你很难去做保护性药物和疫苗的有效性验证。
"If the virus is gone, it's hard to verify the efficacy of protective drugs and vaccines.
反过来，如果基线感染越高，那么就可以用越小的人群，来验证有效性。
Conversely, if the baseline infection is higher, the smaller the population can be used to verify effectiveness.
”丁胜举例，艾滋病或者疟疾的保护性用药就是在高危地区或者高危人群中开展的。
For example, protective medication for AIDS or malaria is given in high-risk areas or high-risk groups.
但目前还未有大规模的保护性用药的试验开展，因为保护性用药不仅要考虑安全性，也要考虑耐药性。
But no large-scale trials of protective drugs have been conducted, because protective drugs should consider not only safety, but also drug resistance.
“这个疫情还是比较特殊的，但保护性用药这个话题值得进一步被验证和探讨。
"The epidemic is unique, but the topic of protective drugs is worth further testing and discussion.
”未经授权 禁止转载。
No reproduction is permitted without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
清华大学药学院院长丁胜：国内疫情回落，此前上马的临床试验可在海外继续。
Dean of Tsinghua University School of Pharmacy Ding Sheng: The domestic epidemic has receded, prior to the start of clinical trials can continue overseas.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "清华大学药学院院长丁胜：国内疫情回落，此前上马的临床试验可在海外继续";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Ding Sheng, dean of Tsinghua University's School of Pharmacy: The domestic epidemic has fallen back.
var msg_desc = "丁胜还认为，对健康人群不进行干预的群体性免疫存在较大风险。
var msg _ desc = & quot; and Ding says there is a greater risk of mass immunization without interference from healthy people.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
