一个交换生的艰辛回国路：航班一再取消，没想到会“掐点”。
An exchange student's hard way back home: repeated cancellations, did not expect to "pinch point."
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
供图：受访者记者：潘金花“ “要是再晚一些回来，可能会遇到更多负面情绪，因为检疫的人会越来越累。
Supplied by: Interviewee: Pan Jinhua "If you come back later, you may encounter more negative emotions because quarantine people are getting more tired.
””“吃到粥，广东人都要哭了。
"" People in Guangdong will cry when they eat porridge.
”在历经了14个小时的飞行和无止境的等待后，刚在美国加州明德大学蒙特雷国际研究学院（MIIS）结束两个月交换项目的Temple总算在深圳南山一家酒店的大堂里喝上了一口热粥。
After 14 hours of flying and endless waiting, Temple, who has just completed a two-month exchange at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS) at the University of Mindell in California, took a sip of porridge in the lobby of a hotel in Nanshan, Shenzhen.
和这几天网络上传得沸沸扬扬的所谓“跑毒”群体不同，Temple在刚过去的这个周末原本就要回国。
Unlike the so-called "running poison" crowd that has been flying around the Internet for days, Temple was due to return home this past weekend.
她所参加的交换项目上周已经结课。
Her exchange program ended last week.
早在去年10月，她就已经一并买好了往返的机票。
She had already bought her round-trip ticket as early as last October.
只是她没想到，这趟旅程从去到回，竟然会如此波折和“掐点”。
But she did not expect that this trip from the back, actually such a twists and turns and "pinch point."
以下是她的口述，经过界面新闻整理编辑。
Here's her dictation, edited by the Interface News.
取消、取消、取消我们一行人是在1月25日那天到美国的。
The cancellation, cancellation and cancellation of our party came to America on January 25th.
这是学校间的一个项目，研究生和本科生都可以参加。
This is an inter-school project open to both graduate and undergraduate students.
在出发前，也就是去年10月，我们就已经订好了来回的机票。
We had booked the round-trip tickets in October of last year before we left.
但还没出发，我们的航班就已经开始被取消了，只好在11月又买了其他飞美国的航班。
But before we set out, our flight had already begun to be canceled and other flights to the United States had to be purchased in November.
1月25号其实挺特别的，因为第二天，我们在南山区的学校也开始封校了。
January 25th was special because the next day our school in the Nanshan area was closed.
25号那天，我们还在学校收拾行李，准备出发，当时他们不让我进宿舍，我一下还没反应过来。
On the 25th we were packing up at school and getting ready to go when they refused to let me into my dorm room.
之后，我们就戴着口罩去了蒙特雷，发现当地没有人戴口罩，我们就赶紧摘了。
After that, we went to Monterrey wearing masks and found no one in the area wearing masks, so we quickly picked them up.
这次我们并不算提前回国。
We are not going home early this time.
尽管在蒙特雷的课程因为疫情受到了很多影响，但项目还是顺利结束了，而下一周就是春假，所以我们差不多在这个时候也该回来了。
Despite the impact of the Monterrey curriculum, the project ended successfully, and next week was spring break, so we should be back around this time.
但在2月9号的时候，我们又收到了返程航班被取消的通知。
But on February 9, we were notified that the return flight had been canceled.
美国航空说不飞了，在3月二十几号前是不会再飞了，说是飞行员不愿意飞中国。
American Airlines said it would not fly again until the twenty-first of March, saying the pilot would not fly to China.
更要命的是，香港3月初又把船给停了，公共交通也限制了。
Worse, Hong Kong stopped the ship in early March, and public transport was limited.
我们一开始是从香港出发的，因为香港离深圳很近。
We started from Hong Kong because Hong Kong is very close to Shenzhen.
但现在要是飞香港的话，就得自己想办法回深圳，还得冒着在香港被隔离的风险。
But now, if you fly to Hong Kong, you have to find your own way back to Shenzhen and risk isolation in Hong Kong.
有些同学想在日本转机回国，连过境签都办好了，没想到日本又成了疫情重灾区。
Some students want to return home in Japan, even transit signed do well, did not expect that Japan has become a serious epidemic disaster areas.
只好继续改签，在香港转机到沈阳，然后再回深圳和广州。
Have to continue to re-sign, transit in Hong Kong to Shenyang, and then go back to Shenzhen and Guangzhou.
这样“折腾”是为了避免在香港入境，因为从19号开始，香港就要对来自疫情严重国家或地区的旅客强制隔离14日。
The idea is to avoid entry into Hong Kong, where compulsory isolation of travellers from countries or regions with severe epidemics will be imposed for 14 days from the 19th.
在我15号凌晨坐的那趟国泰航班上，也是满满当当的，我原本以为这个时间不会有多少人出国，能自己一个人坐一排。
On the Cathay Pacific flight, which was full in the early hours of the 15th, I had expected that not many people would leave the country and be able to sit alone in a row.
我旁边坐着两个香港人，我猜他们也是赶在19号之前回来的，整飞机的乘客，我感觉要么是学生，要么就是一些华人，大家都赶着回来。
There were two Hong Kong people sitting next to me, and I guess they came back just before the 19th. I felt like either the students or some Chinese were all rushing back.
3月16日早上，Temple乘坐的航班降落在香港机场。
On the morning of March 16, Temple's flight landed at Hong Kong airport.
供图：受访者票价暴涨、改签太难其实我差点就回不来。
Photo: The interviewee's ticket prices skyrocketed and it was too difficult to sign.
我听这两个香港人讲，现在机票的价格已经炒到十几万了，我们学院说是给我们提供3000块人民币的改签费用，但当时改签一张票已经要8000多了。
I've heard from the two Hong Kong residents that the price of air tickets has already been inflated to tens of thousands of yuan. Our college said it was to provide us with 3,000 yuan in renewal fees, but it would have cost more than 8,000 yuan to sign a new ticket.
我后来是直接打电话给美国航空，要求他们给出解决方案，才改成了这趟国泰航空的航班。
I called American Airlines directly to ask for a solution before changing to Cathay Pacific's flight.
原本我是不敢那么“理直气壮”的。
Originally I dare not so "straight".
我们基本都住在美国家庭里，房东太太Colin听说了我们的遭遇后，立马打电话给美国航空开始骂他们：“你们的决定为什么要影响我们的行程”，“必须给一个解决方案，而且不能再花我们一分钱”，“圣何塞不能飞，就从旧金山出发”。
When Colin, the landlady, heard about what had happened to us, she immediately called American Airlines and scolded them, "Why did your decision affect our itinerary?", "There must be a solution, and it won't cost us a cent" and "San Jose can't fly, just leave San Francisco."
我听说Colin发飙之后也有了底气，开始给美国航空打电话，要求改签成同样的旧金山-香港直飞航班。
I heard Colin had a blast and started calling American Airlines to ask for the same San Francisco-Hong Kong direct flight.
Colin当时还说，Temple在哪里，我接过来搞定了再送回去，我说，我能行。
Colin also said at the time, "Where is Temple? I took it and sent it back. I said, I can do it."
我是在航班被取消的第二天成功改签的。
I was able to resign the flight the day after it was cancelled.
当时我打了好几轮的电话，从早上八点开始，一直打到下午才联系上客服，因为每一轮电话都要排一个小时的队，要是错过了，就得再等一个小时，我只能不停地打。
I made several rounds of phone calls, which started at 8 a.m. and didn't reach the customer service until the afternoon, because every round of calls required an hour of queuing, and if I missed it, I had to wait for another hour.
后来美国航空也因为Colin投诉的关系，没有要我们给500美元的改签费，只是我们一直都在担心，航班会不会被再次取消。
Later on, American Airlines, because of Colin's complaint, didn't ask us to pay $500 for the change, but we were always worried that the flight would be canceled again.
但我在值机的时候才知道，美国航空给我改的其实是一张全价票，价格大概是1000到2000美元。
But I found out when I was on the plane that what American Airlines had changed for me was a full price ticket, about $1, 000 to $2, 000.
我当时特别惊讶，因为之前我在携程上买来回机票，才5000多块人民币，1月飞美国的时候用了一程，所以应该还剩2000多。
I was especially surprised because I had bought round-trip tickets on Ctrip for more than 5,000 yuan, and had flown to the United States in January, so there should be more than 2,000 left.
我们一共有11个人，15号坐国泰航班回国的是7个人，我想剩下几位原本打算从日本转机的同学，在改签上应该都花了不少吧。
There are 11 of us. There are 7 people returning home on Cathay 15. I think the rest of you who were planning to take a flight from Japan should have spent a lot of money on the re-signing.
蒙特雷的机场快线车站。
Airport Express station in Monterrey.
供图：受访者“套着塑料袋吃饭”下飞机的时候，我们还看了一下，公务舱和头等舱都是全满的，我们坐的经济舱也是。
Photo: When the interviewee got off the plane "in a plastic bag," we also looked at the fact that business and first class were full, as was our economy class.
我原本以为飞机会很空，没想到不是。
I thought the plane was going to be empty, but it wasn't.
机场倒是很空。
The airport was empty.
我们的航班原定是14号半夜在旧金山机场起飞，后来延误到15号凌晨1点多。
Our flight was supposed to take off at San Francisco Airport in the middle of the night on the 14th and was delayed until after 1 a.m. on the 15th.
其实那天下午我们就已经到机场了，因为担心安检可能要花很多时间。
We were already at the airport that afternoon because of concerns that security might take a long time.
Colin当时还说，要是再延误的话，干脆就把我们从旧金山弄回去算了。
Colin also said at the time that if we were delayed any longer, we would be taken back from San Francisco.
不过，走去出发大厅的一路上，我们都没见到什么人。
On the way out into the hall, however, we saw no one.
只有飞中国的登机口是人挤人的，其他登机口，我都没看到有很多人在那里等。
Only the boarding gates to China are crowded. I don't see many people waiting at the other gates.
1月25日在洛杉矶过海关准备转机的时候，机场倒是人山人海，我们后来都没赶上飞蒙特雷的航班。
On January 25, when customs in Los Angeles prepared for a connecting flight, the airport was packed with people, and we all missed the flight to Monterrey.
在旧金山机场，工作人员都戴着口罩，亚洲面孔的旅客基本也都有戴，只是一些外国人不戴。
At San Francisco airport, staff wore masks, and Asian-looking passengers were mostly wearing them, although some foreigners did not.
我坐机场快线过来的时候，很惊讶地发现司机也不戴口罩，他上车就开始听歌、讲电话、吃他的饭，非常地放松。
I was surprised to see that the driver was not wearing a mask, so he began to listen to music, talk on the phone, eat his food and relax very much.
左：机场快线的司机并没有戴口罩；右：当天下午旧金山机场的人并不多。
Left: The Airport Express driver is not wearing a mask. Right: Not many people were at San Francisco Airport that afternoon.
供图：受访者在机场值机、过安检、登机的时候，其实没有人来测我们的体温，在飞机上，也没有专门的隔离区，大家都戴着口罩，看起来都挺健康的。
Photo: No one actually took our temperature when checking in at the airport, passing through security checks or boarding the plane. There was no special area of separation on the plane, everyone was wearing masks and looked healthy.
不过在吃飞机餐的时候，我斜前方还有后面的两位乘客，都直接在头上套了一个白色塑料袋在吃，感觉中国乘客彼此之间都挺害怕的。
But at the time of the plane meal, I had two passengers standing in front of me, eating directly in a white plastic bag over their heads.
在香港降落之后，我们要自行申报是否有咳嗽等症状，有的话要去量体温，没发热就可以排队出机场，香港可能也是不想大家都留在它那里吧。
After landing in Hong Kong, we have to declare whether we have cough and other symptoms. If we need to take temperature, we can queue out of the airport without heat.
出了机场之后，一切就很不一样了。
When we got out of the airport, it was quite different.
我们学院直接包车送我们到了深圳湾口岸，过海关之后，就有政府的车辆在那里等，以街道为单位，把大家按目的地分成市外、市内、省外、省内。
After passing through the customs, there will be government vehicles waiting there. Taking the streets as the unit, we will be divided into cities, cities, provinces and provinces according to the destination.
只不过因为排队的人和关卡都很多，我们花了快四个小时才过完海关。
It took us almost four hours to get through customs just because there were so many queues and roadblocks.
我有同学前两天也从英国回到了成都，他连走去航站楼的机会都没有，下了飞机的舷梯之后，直接就被大巴拉去了隔离酒店。
One of my classmates returned to Chengdu from England the other day. He didn't even have a chance to walk to the terminal. He got off the gangway of the plane and went straight to the Great Ballah to quarantine the hotel.
在深圳湾口岸等待安排。
Waiting arrangements at Shenzhen Bay Port.
供图：受访者另外，中国国籍和外国国籍也分得很清楚，会被送去不同的地方。
Photo: In addition, Chinese and foreign nationalities were clearly identified and sent to different places.
我们7个人后来也分开了，我和两个同学在南山的酒店隔离，有人去了龙华，有人在蛇口医院隔离，也有人回了东莞，还有人在口岸被取样之后，直接被救护车送回了家。
We 7 people later separated, I and two classmates in Nanshan hotel isolation, some went to Longhua, others in Shekou Hospital isolation, others back to Dongguan, others were sampled at the port, were directly returned to their homes by ambulance.
我是在酒店隔离的第二天，也就是周二被取样的，现在正在等检测的结果。
I was sampled on Tuesday, the second day of isolation at the hotel, and now I'm waiting for the results of the tests.
疾控中心还给我打电话说，过两天要是结果阴性，学校愿意接收我，就可以回学校继续隔离到14天期满，但前提是要有人能将东西送到我的门口。
The CDC also called me and said that if the results were negative in two days and the school was willing to accept me, it would be possible to go back to school and remain isolated until the 14-day limit expired, provided someone was able to deliver it to my door.
我觉得对方考虑得挺周全的。
I think the other person is very thoughtful.
在酒店隔离，每天会有人来给我量体温，三餐和生活物资也有人送上来，只是工作量太大了，有时会比较晚。
I was quarantined at the hotel, where my temperature was taken every day, and meals and supplies were brought in, although the workload was too heavy, sometimes late.
“除了特朗普，美国人都挺谨慎”当时在美国其实还挺不一样的。
"Americans are cautious, except for Trump," which was quite different in the United States.
比如在蒙特雷还有旁边的一些小镇，其实都没人戴口罩，偶尔看到一两个中国人戴着，自己也觉得戴着挺不好意思的，大家都看着你。
In Monterrey and other nearby towns, for example, no one actually wears a mask and occasionally sees one or two Chinese wearing one or two.
我的朋友还让我小心一点，因为有人试过在街上被辱骂，但我遇到的人都很好，没有觉得身边的人会特意避开我，甚至会主动问我，需不需要帮助。
My friend also told me to be careful because someone tried to be insulted in the street, but the people I met were so nice that I didn't think people around me would shun me and even asked me if I needed any help.
感觉除了特朗普以外，美国人都挺谨慎的。
Americans, with the exception of Trump, feel cautious.
蒙特雷很快就有一些举措，给大家提供心理、法律上的帮助，课程也都有调整，课室还放了酒精抹布，每一节课我们都会用，餐厅和超市也都有免洗洗手液，只不过家里的预防措施不多。
Monterrey was quick to offer psychological and legal help, curricular adjustments, alcohol rags in classrooms, use of hand sanitizers in every class, and wash-free hand sanitizers in restaurants and supermarkets, with the exception of a few precautions at home.
春假以后，美国的很多大学也都要关闭校园了。
After spring break, many American universities are going to close their campuses.
其实我们原本有一个结课典礼，只是因为疫情的关系取消了。
In fact, we had a closing ceremony, just because of the outbreak of the disease canceled.
Colin原本还打算给我们办一个派对，说我们怎么样也要玩一下，但就在我们统计了人数之后，加州就颁布了禁令，10人以上的聚会全部都要取消，而我们有11个人。
Colin was going to throw us a party and tell us we were going to have fun, but just after we counted the numbers, California decreed that all parties with more than 10 people would be canceled, compared with 11 of us.
在美国出现疫情之后，超市里基本都找不到口罩，后来我每周二都去药房蹲点，好不容易才买到两盒。
After the outbreak in the United States, most of the supermarket can not find masks, and then I went to the pharmacy every Tuesday squat, hard to buy two boxes.
有些中餐馆的老板也会联系一些货源，但价格比较贵。
Some Chinese restaurant owners will also contact some sources of goods, but the price is more expensive.
不过，超市里的其他东西倒是不缺，蒙特雷是这样。
But there is no shortage of other things in supermarkets, as in Monterrey.
洛杉矶、旧金山的超市货架会空一些，但也没到抢光的地步，只听说纽约抢得比较厉害。
Supermarket shelves in Los Angeles and San Francisco will be empty, but not to the point of looting, only to hear that New York better.
我离开的时候，美国已经有很多个州宣布紧急状态了。
By the time I left, states of emergency had been declared in the United States.
不过我们的老师说，这只是一个法律程序，只有宣布紧急状态，才能动用拨款，并不一定代表疫情很严重。
But our teachers said it was a legal process and that only when a state of emergency was declared could funds be used, not necessarily because of the severity of the epidemic.
我有些老师还会讨论说，其实用不着这样，股市大跌之后，退休金已经大幅缩水，现在又有旅行禁令，做口译这一行的都没法工作了。
Some of my teachers will talk about not having to. After the stock market crash, pensions have shrunk, and now there is a travel ban.
蒙特雷是太平洋沿岸城市，仅拥有约3万人口，平日里街上的行人并不多。
Monterrey, a city on the Pacific coast with a population of only about 30,000, usually has few pedestrians.
供图：受访者我在蒙特雷遇到的人，都没有觉得疫情很严重，可能还是觉得季节性流感更严重。
Photo: None of the people I met in Monterrey thought the outbreak was serious. They probably felt the seasonal flu was more serious.
但他们也不敢去旅行，可以说是谨慎但不恐慌吧。
But they are also afraid to travel, can be said to be cautious but not panic.
但有时候，谨慎和无知之间其实也没有差很远，有些人很大胆，觉得没什么，也有些人觉得，只要做好一切预防措施就没事。
But sometimes there is no difference between prudence and ignorance. Some people are bold enough to feel nothing, and some feel that if they do everything they can, it will be fine.
美国是比较少有的，没有带薪病假的发达国家。
The United States is a relatively rare developed country with no paid sick leave.
医疗体系下，看病的费用又非常贵，这可能导致了很多人瞒报。
Under the health-care system, the cost of care is very high, which may lead to many underreporting.
我陪房东去过一趟医院，看到电梯上写着如果出现疑似症状，请及时就医，但并没有提到有关减免检查费、要如何检查的内容。
I accompanied the landlord to a hospital, see the elevator if there are suspected symptoms, please see a doctor in time, but did not mention the waiver of inspection fees, how to check content.
我们在美国交换的时候，即使买了保险，也不希望自己生病，因为看病真的太贵了。
When we exchanged insurance in America, we didn't want to get sick because it was too expensive to see a doctor.
很多人会觉得，我们的行程“掐得很好”，说国内严重的时候，你们就走了，国内控制好了，你们就回来了。
Many people will think that our trip was "well pinched," that when things were serious at home, you were gone, you were under control at home, and you were back.
能在这个时候回来，可以说我是幸运的，但过程同样是艰辛的。
I was lucky to be back at this time, but the process was equally arduous.
听到“千里送毒”、“回来当大爷”的说法，我们也挺难受的，因为大多数人并不想添乱。
Hear "thousands of miles to send poison", "come back to be a grandfather", we also very uncomfortable, because most people do not want to add chaos.
我也有和检疫的工作人员聊天，他说接下来只会越来越严格，要是再晚一些回来，可能会遇到更多负面情绪，因为检疫的人会越来越累，他们也不能休息。
I also had a talk with the quarantine officer, who said that it would only get tougher next time around, and that if he came back later, he might encounter more negative emotions, because quarantine people were getting tired and they couldn't rest.
（应受访者要求，Temple为化名，国内就读大学名称不作公开）未经授权 禁止转载。
(At the request of the interviewee, Temple is an alias and the name of the domestic university is not published), it is forbidden to reproduce without authorization.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个交换生的艰辛回国路：航班一再取消，没想到会“掐点”。
An exchange student's hard way back home: repeated cancellations, did not expect to "pinch point."
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "一个交换生的艰辛回国路：航班一再取消，没想到会“掐点”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; repeated cancellations.
var msg_desc = "“要是再晚一些回来，可能会遇到更多负面情绪，因为检疫的人会越来越累。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "If you came back later, you might have encountered more negative emotions, because quarantine people are getting tired.
”";。
";;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
