留守意大利：“封城”后，4名华人的防疫日记。
Left behind in Italy: A diary of the epidemic prevention of four Chinese after the "closure" of the city.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
到了晚上，城市变得出奇的安静。
At night, the city became strangely quiet.
意大利人爱玩，若是没有疫情的话，晚上的酒吧和运河区，会是年轻人聚集的地方。
Italians love to play, if there is no epidemic, night bars and transport areas, will be a gathering place for young people.
在小酒馆里，他们花上十欧元，点一杯饮料，一坐就很久。
In the pub they spent ten euros, ordered a drink, and sat down for a long time.
“现在这些都没有了。
"None of this is available now.
”Stella家楼下，如今路上的行人寥寥无几。
There were few people on the road now, the Stella's downstairs.
受访者供图文 |新京报记者周小琪实习生孔宁婧编辑 | 陈晓舒 校对 |卢茜►本文约4503字，阅读全文约需9分钟这是生活在意大利的华人们经历的第一次“封城”。
Interviewees for the Beijing News, Zhou Xiaoqi, an intern, and Jing Jing, an editor and proofread by Chen Xiaoshu, have about 4,503 words in this article. It takes about nine minutes to read the full text - the first time a Chinese living in Italy has been 'closed'.
10天前，意大利总理孔特在电视讲话中宣布，意大利将全国实施封城禁令。
In a televised speech 10 days ago, Italian Prime Minister Matteo Conte announced that Italy would impose a nationwide ban.
生活开始产生变化。
Life is beginning to change.
人们在出门时，需要随身携带一份个人声明，写明出行的地点、目的，路上会有警察盘查；超市的售货员戴上了口罩，为了控制人流量，顾客需要在门口排队，分批进出；在酒吧，吧台的座位已经全部封闭，服务员在上酒时，会专门把酒杯放在客人隔壁的空桌子上，避免近距离接触。
In order to control the flow of people, customers need to line up at the entrance in batches. In order to control the flow of people, the bar tables are completely closed and the bartender puts his glass on the empty table next door to avoid close contact.
根据意大利卫生部公布的最新数据，截至3月19日，意大利现有新冠肺炎患者33190例，死亡3405例，治愈4440例，累计确诊感染新冠病毒总人数为41035例。
According to the latest data released by the Italian Ministry of Health, as of March 19, Italy now has 33190 new cases of pneumonia, 3,405 deaths and 4,440 cures, for a cumulative total of 41,035 confirmed cases.
医院爆满、物资告急，但待在家中的意大利人仍然保持着乐观和娱乐精神。
Hospitals are full and supplies are in short supply, but Italians staying at home remain upbeat and entertaining.
在罗马，每天下午很多街区的人们会跑到自家阳台上唱歌、弹乐器、放音乐。
In Rome, many blocks in the afternoon people would run to their balconies to sing, play musical instruments, and play music.
疫情也打乱了很多意大利华人的计划。
The outbreak has also disrupted the plans of many Chinese in Italy.
面对疫情，华人是最先警觉和行动起来的人，他们中很多选择留在当地，与意大利人一起“防疫”。
The Chinese were the first to be alerted and mobilized by the epidemic, many of whom chose to stay and "vaccinate" with the Italians.
米兰商人徐建平“留下来为华人做些事”做服装生意的徐建平在米兰待了25年，以往的这个时候，是米兰旅游的旺季，有许多时装周、展会，徐建平常常能在城里碰到很多中国明星，现在却几乎见不到中国人。
Xu Jianping, a Milan businessman who "stays behind to do something for the Chinese," has spent 25 years in Milan, the peak season for Milan. There are many fashion weeks and exhibitions.
徐建平的服装店也暂停营业，他每天就和家人呆在家里看新闻。
Xu's clothing store is also closed. He stays at home with his family every day to watch the news.
他说，没人能想到意大利的疫情会发展得如此迅速。
'No one could have imagined how quickly the epidemic in Italy would develop, 'he said.
一月份时，许多身处意大利的华人还在为中国抗疫奔波。
In January, many Chinese in Italy were still fighting the Chinese epidemic.
徐建平来自浙江温州，是米兰华侨华人企业家联谊会会长。
Xu Jianping, from Wenzhou, Zhejiang, is president of the Association of Chinese Entrepreneurs of Milan.
大年三十那天，他和其他侨团的负责人决定，取消每年一度的春节大游行活动，把节省下的10万欧元经费用来购买救援物资，想办法寄回国内。
On New Year's Eve, he and the leaders of other overseas groups decided to cancel the annual Spring Festival parade and use the savings of 100,000 euros to buy relief supplies and find ways to send them home.
1月底，徐建平刚开始采购时，一个一次性医用口罩只要5欧分，一套杜邦的防护服只卖5欧元，但后来所有防护物资的价格都水涨船高，翻了好几倍，采购的难度也越来越大。
At the end of January, when Xu began purchasing, a disposable medical mask cost as little as five euro, and a DuPont suit sold for just five euros, but the price of all the protective equipment went up several times, making it increasingly difficult to procure.
“所有能筹集到的物资我们都寄到了国内，从那时候开始意大利本地就很难买到口罩、护目镜等物资了。
"We sent all the things we could, and from then on it was very difficult for Italy to buy masks, goggles and things like that.
”当地许多华人都动了回国的念头。
Many local Chinese are tempted to return home.
徐建平的很多家人朋友也都劝他，要不要考虑回国呆一段时间，但他说，自己作为当地商会的会长，在这种时候不应该想着自己走，应该想办法为华人做些事。
Many of Mr. Xu's family and friends also urged him to consider returning to China for a while, but said he, as head of the local chamber of commerce, should not think about going alone at this time, but should do something for the Chinese.
2月27日，徐建平收到了来自法国的8500个口罩和1000多瓶消毒液。
On February 27, Xu received 8,500 face masks and more than 1,000 bottles of disinfectant from France.
这批物资原本计划运往温州，但浙江省侨联得知意大利疫情严重、物资匮乏，直接协调转到了米兰。
The shipment was to have been sent to Wenzhou, but the Zhejiang Association of Overseas Chinese learned of the serious outbreak and lack of supplies in Italy and moved directly to Milan.
徐建平和侨团成员为在意华人分发口罩。
Xu Jianping and members of the overseas Chinese community distributed masks for the Chinese.
受访者供图之后，徐建平又陆续收到了来自迪拜、西班牙等国家的物资。
Xu received materials from Dubai, Spain and other countries.
收到物资以后，他和侨团的其他成员开始在朋友圈和各个同乡群里发布消息，在指定地点免费派发口罩、消毒液，符合标准的防护服则被送到了米兰当地的传染病医院。
After receiving the supplies, he and other members of the diaspora began to post messages in groups of friends and fellow countrymen, distributing free masks and disinfectants at designated locations, and standard protective clothing was sent to the local hospital for infectious diseases in Milan.
一些华人还专门制作了几万份防疫的宣传小册子，在米兰大教堂门口派发。
Some Chinese have also produced tens of thousands of pamphlets on immunization, which are distributed at the entrance to Milan Cathedral.
徐建平介绍，在米兰确诊的华人多数是酒吧老板。
Xu said most of the Chinese diagnosed in Milan were bar owners.
一些华人被确诊后，由于病情较轻，医生给他们开了药，请他们回家隔离。
When some Chinese were diagnosed with the disease, they were prescribed medicine and asked to go home to be isolated.
“这种情况让很多人心里觉得不满，有些人会觉得他们是针对华人，但医生其实是一视同仁的，在医疗资源紧张的情况下，意大利有两个市的市长确诊了轻症，也没有被医院收治。
"Many people are dissatisfied with the situation and some people think they are targeting the Chinese, but the doctors are not the same," he said. "The mayors of two Italian cities have confirmed mild cases and have not been admitted to hospitals because of limited medical resources.
”几天前，徐建平看到米兰的一些医院，已经开始在广场上搭建临时的“方舱医院”，像充气帐篷一样，用来筛查疑似病例。
A few days ago, Xu saw hospitals in Milan and began setting up makeshift "square cabin hospitals" on the square to screen for suspected cases, like inflatable tents.
同时，米兰政府还计划把一座大型的会展中心改造成临时医院，不出意外的话，医院将在6天内完成改建，可以容纳600张床位。
Meanwhile, the Milan government plans to convert a large convention center into a temporary hospital, which will be rebuilt in six days, with a capacity of 600 beds, without incident.
“我们对意大利的医疗还是有信心的。
"We still have faith in Italy's health care.
”徐建平说。
"said Xu.
罗马留学生陈谦面对严重疫情，意大利人做起了“阳台DJ”在距离米兰600公里远的罗马，中国留学生陈谦对封城那天的记忆是，“有很多人到车站坐最晚的一班夜班火车，往南方跑。
Chen Qian, a Chinese student, remembers the day the city was sealed with a terrace DJ set up by Italians in Rome 600 kilometers from Milan. "There are a lot of people going south on the last night train to the station," Chen told the Chinese student.
”3月10日，学声乐的陈谦正在学校上合唱课。
Chen Qian, a vocal music student, was in chorus at school on March 10.
课上到一半，校长突然推开门进来了，让大家停课。
Halfway through the class, the principal suddenly opened the door and asked everyone to stop.
当晚，陈谦在拉奎拉回罗马的车上，看到了总理孔特宣布封城的消息。
That evening, Chen Qian in the car back to Rome, saw Prime Minister Conte announced the closure of the city.
封城后的第一天，很多酒吧、比萨店和冰淇淋店都停业了。
On the first day of the city, many bars, pizza parlors and ice cream parlors were closed.
陈谦说，意大利人离不开这三样东西。
'Italians can't do without these three things, 'Chen said.
好不容易找到一家还开着的餐厅，但只允许打包外带，他们要求一次只能进去一名顾客，食物打包好之后，服务员就拿一根筷子，挑着塑料袋上的拎手递过来。
They asked to be allowed in only one customer at a time. When the food was packed, the waiter took a chopstick and handed it to the man in the plastic bag.
自那以后，陈谦大大减少了外出的次数，他隔好几天才会去超市囤一次粮，一次买很多的肉、蔬菜、鸡蛋和牛奶。
Since then, Chen Qian has greatly reduced the number of trips out, he would go to the supermarket every few days to buy a lot of meat, vegetables, eggs and milk at a time.
这已是他在意大利的第四年。
This was his fourth year in Italy.
疫情刚暴发的时候，妈妈打电话来，希望他能回国。
When the outbreak first broke out, my mother called and hoped that he would be able to return home.
他也想过和身边的留学生们一样，辗转多次航班回家。
He also thought of flying home many times, as did the students around him.
但现在，如果要从意大利起飞，必须要提供一份医院开的医学证明，证明自己没有感染。
But now, to take off from Italy, a medical certificate issued by a hospital must be produced to prove that he is not infected.
室友前两天打包好了行李准备回国，拎着箱子到了机场后，才被告知没有证明无法成行，只得拎着箱子又回来了。
Roommate the last two days packed luggage ready to return home, carrying the box to the airport, was told that there is no proof that can not go, had to carry the box back.
陈谦决定留在意大利。
Chen Qian decided to stay in Italy.
“现在中国的疫情也还没好，万一我携带了病毒，回去也只是添乱。
"Now the epidemic in China is not well, in case I carry the virus, it's just adding to the chaos.
在这儿不出门，应该没什么问题。
There should be no problem in staying here.
”如今，罗马的超市里，一些防护措施已经做起来了。
Now some precautions have been taken in the supermarkets of Rome.
超市限流，排队结账时，大家都自动保持一米的距离，收银台前也立起了将顾客和收营员隔开的玻璃挡板。
Supermarket restrictions, queuing up the checkout, everyone automatically maintain a meter distance, the cash register also stood in front of the customers and closed off the glass baffles.
陈谦家楼下空无一人的街道。
Chen Qianjia downstairs empty street.
受访者供图戴口罩的人数也增多了。
There was also an increase in the number of people wearing masks.
陈谦说，在意大利刚有当地确诊病例时，我们（中国留学生）中的很多人就已经排队去药店买口罩了。
Many of us [Chinese students] already lined up at pharmacies to buy masks when there were local confirmed cases in Italy, Chen said.
意大利人看到我们买口罩，都以为我们是确诊的，会离我们远远的。
When Italians see us buying masks, they assume we are diagnosed and will stay away from us.
只要有中国人在车上或其他任何公共交通上咳嗽一声，打个喷嚏，所有人都会下车。
Whenever a Chinese coughs on a car or any other public transport and sneezes, everyone gets off the bus.
刚宣布封城时，罗马的药店还能买到口罩，每人限购五个，但现在已经买不到了。
When the city was declared closed, pharmacies in Rome were able to buy face masks, each limited to five, but they are no longer available.
一些医疗物资也显得匮乏。
Some medical supplies are also in short supply.
“尽管意大利的医疗水平排在世界前列，但人力、物力不够，医生不够，医疗设备也不够。
"Even though Italy has one of the highest standards of health care in the world, there are not enough human and material resources, doctors and medical equipment.
”闲在家里的这些天，陈谦上网和看电视的时间增多，新闻里的消息总让他揪心。
Chen Qian spends more time online and watching TV these days at home, gripped by the news.
前两天，他在家看到一则新闻，画面中一个年纪很大的老太太蹲在医院门口哭，她的丈夫已经因为新冠肺炎去世了，而她也确诊感染了新冠肺炎，但医生说她的病情目前没有其他人重，不能进医院，只能回家独自隔离。
Two days earlier, he had seen a news story at home about an elderly woman crying in front of a hospital whose husband had died of pneumonia and who had been diagnosed with pneumonia, but doctors said she was not seriously ill, could not be admitted to a hospital and had to go home alone.
“看到这些让人难受，也挺无奈的。
"It's hard to see this, but it's also very frustrating.
”虽然医院爆满、物资告急，但待在家中的意大利人仍然保持着乐观和娱乐精神。
The Italians staying at home remain upbeat and entertaining, despite the hospital's overcrowding and emergency supplies.
电视屏幕下方的跑马灯滚动更新着疫情最新的消息，电视里的娱乐节目播放却不会少。
The running lights below the TV screen are rolling up to date with the latest news of the epidemic, but there will be no less entertainment on television.
每天下午的6点和晚上9点，很多街区的人们会跑到自家的阳台上唱歌、弹乐器、放音乐。
At 6 p. m. and 9 p. m., people in many neighborhoods run out on their balconies singing, playing musical instruments and playing music.
在年轻人住得比较多的街区，他们甚至做起了“阳台DJ”——把DJ台和音响搬到阳台上，大家一起High。
In neighborhoods where young people live more often, they even make "balcony DJ" -- DJ stations and stereos are moved onto balconies and everyone is high.
在音乐学院的校友群里，陈谦总看到有人在发布消息，呼吁大家在这两个时间段里，把自己的乐器拿到阳台上，打开窗，让意大利成为一个大型的免费音乐会。
Among the alumni of the conservatory, Chen Qian always saw a message calling on everyone to take their musical instruments to the balcony, open the windows and make Italy a big free concert during these two periods.
前几天，陈谦的师哥在朋友圈发了一条视频，视频中，师哥在阳台上唱了一首《我的太阳》，四周叫好声一片，还有住在附近的居民特地打开窗户，大喊“Bravo（好）！Bravo！”平常的一天里，陈谦家的窗外，以往热闹的街道静了起来。
A few days ago, Chen Qian's brother in the circle of friends issued a video, the brother sang "My Sun" on the balcony, applauded loudly, and residents living nearby specially opened windows, shouting "Bravo! Bravo!
原本街边摆摊的商贩全都不见了，路上只有零星的人在慢跑或者遛狗。
All the vendors who used to be stalls along the street have disappeared, with only a few people jogging or walking their dogs on the road.
许多人的工作都停下了，楼下比萨店的老板坐在店门口等着做比萨，他戴着黑色口罩，只遮住了嘴，鼻子还露在外面。
A lot of people stopped working, and the owner of the pizza parlor downstairs sat in front of the shop waiting to make a pizza, wearing a black mask that covered only his mouth and his nose sticking out.
下午6点到了，陈谦打开窗，让房间里放着的音乐传到窗外去，自己坐在房间里弹吉他，他不怎么唱歌，街道对面，是个空旷的足球场，没有人会回应他。
At 6: 00 pm, Chen Qian opened the window, let the music put in the room to the window, sitting in his room playing guitar, he did not sing, across the street, is an empty football field, no one will respond to him.
陈谦家楼下披萨店的老板坐在店门口，等着做披萨。
The owner of the pizza parlor downstairs sat at the door, waiting to make pizza.
一些店家开门提供外卖服务。
Some stores open for take-out service.
受访者供图锡耶纳进修教师汪诗雄华人互助，老友为其提供住所进修教师汪诗雄的计划也被打乱了。
Interviewees offered mutual assistance to Tu Siena further education teacher, Wang Shixiong, and plans by old friends to provide residential training for him were disrupted.
他原本还要在锡耶纳学习一年半，但身处国内的家人每天都很担心他，连从来不会用微信的姥爷也开始每天从他的朋友圈了解近况。
He would have spent a year and a half studying in Siena, but his family at home were worried about him every day, and even the grandpa, who never used a letter, began to learn the latest from his circle of friends every day.
直到3月初，汪诗雄所在的学校还在继续上课。
Until early March, his school continued to teach.
校园坐落在锡耶纳人流量最大的地方，旁边就是火车站和购物中心。
The campus is located in the most crowded part of Siena, next to railway stations and shopping malls.
教学楼只有三层楼，教室数量少，课也排得紧，每天走廊里都挤满了等待着上课的学生。
There were only three floors in the building, there were fewer classrooms and classes were crowded, and every day the hallways were crowded with students waiting for their classes.
汪诗雄试图提醒教授集体上课的危险性，但教授告诉他，“多吃橙子，通过提高身体素质来抵抗病毒”。
Wang tried to warn his professor of the dangers of class, but the professor told him, "Eat more oranges and fight the virus by improving your physical fitness."
汪诗雄在锡耶纳邮局看到的防疫指南。
An epidemic prevention guide Wang Siehsiung saw at Siena Post Office.
受访者供图无奈之下，汪诗雄花12欧买了防护镜和口罩一体的防护设备戴着，随身携带消毒水出门。
Respondents to the picture helpless, Wang Shi male flowers 12 O bought protective glasses and masks wearing protective equipment, carrying disinfectant to go out.
走在路上，他能感觉到有人在背后对他指指点点，为了不听到这些不想听的话，他专门戴上了耳机。
Walking along the road, he could feel someone pointing at him behind his back and wearing headphones so he wouldn't listen.
汪诗雄说，当时很多意大利人都觉得这只是普通的流感，他的老师还在课堂上说，“我是个老年人，在我一生中得过很多次感冒。
'A lot of Italians thought it was just a normal flu, 'Mr. Wang said.' I'm an old man and I've had colds a lot in my life, 'Mr. Wang said.
从幼儿园一直到现在，感冒都是家常便饭，我们没有必要担心这次的病毒，它只是感冒而已。
From kindergarten until now, the cold is a common occurrence, we do not have to worry about this virus, it is just a cold.
”3月4日，意大利宣布全国停课的那天晚上，汪诗雄看见很多学生都去市中心的酒吧、夜店“庆祝”这个突如其来的假期，而他一个人待在充满消毒水味道的房间里，看着自己囤好的一麻袋土豆和一兜子洋葱，感觉自己和外面的人群身处于两个不同的平行时空。
On the evening of March 4, when Italy suspended classes nationwide, Wang saw many students go to bars and nightclubs downtown to "celebrate" this sudden holiday, while he stayed alone in a disinfectant-smelling room, looking at a sack of potatoes and a handful of onions he had stocked up and felt himself in two parallel spaces with the rest of the crowd.
封城后，3月13日，汪诗雄决定先离开锡耶纳，这里的本地医院收治了一些来自其他地区的患者，床位已经住满。
After the siege, on March 13, Wang decided to leave Siena, where the local hospital was already full of beds for patients from other areas.
他搬家到了疫情尚不严重的罗马，暂住在一间单身公寓里，是意大利朋友老古为他提供的。
He moved to Rome, where the epidemic was not severe, and stayed in a single apartment, provided for him by an Italian friend.
八年前，他和老古在北京相识，老古生病时，他曾经陪他一起去过北京的医院。
Eight years ago, he and Lao Gu met in Beijing. When he was ill, he accompanied him to a hospital in Beijing.
汪诗雄想，幸好还有朋友的帮助，还有这间房子做他的“避难所”。
Thankfully, Wang thought, there was also the help of a friend, and the house was a "refuge" for him.
临行前，一位俄罗斯朋友来为他送行，汪诗雄送了他一些消毒水和防护用具。
Before he left, a Russian friend came to see him off and Wang Shixiong gave him some disinfectant and protective gear.
他还记得，在疫情刚暴发时，他戴着口罩和护目镜去上课，被很多同学当作“病人”看待，这位俄罗斯朋友过来，主动坐在他旁边，对他说“我不害怕你”。
He also remembers that when the outbreak first broke out, he went to class wearing a mask and goggles and was treated as a "patient" by many of his classmates. The Russian friend came and sat down beside him and said, "I'm not afraid of you."
米兰留学生 Stella封城后，意大利人也开始警惕起来在米兰学习、生活了四年的中国留学生Stella已经快一个月没出过家门。
After Stella, an international student from Milan, the Italians became wary of Stella, a Chinese student who had studied and lived in Milan for almost a month.
相比多数当地人，她有关于非典的记忆，让她更为敏感警觉。
She has a memory of SARS that makes her more alert than most locals.
当2月底，米兰周围的城镇查出6例新冠肺炎感染病例，她便开始防范。
By the end of February, she was on the lookout for six new cases of pneumonia in towns around Milan.
她说，中国留学生们都约好，即使学校继续上课也不去。
She says Chinese students have made an appointment not to go to school even if it continues.
Stella家楼下，两名老人正在遛狗。
Two old men were walking their dogs downstairs at the Stella's.
他们虽然戴了口罩，但只遮住了嘴，鼻子还露在外面。
Although they wore masks, they only covered their mouths, and their noses remained exposed.
受访者供图米兰在2月24日宣布了宵禁措施：包括酒吧在内的娱乐场所限定了晚间营业时间，盛大的威尼斯狂欢节也被迫叫停。
Interviewees told Tutankhamun on February 24 that a curfew had been imposed on entertainment establishments, including bars, and that the grand Venice Carnival had been halted.
这个娱乐至上的民族立刻表现出对这个举措的不满和不理解。
The entertainment-oriented nation immediately expressed its dissatisfaction with the move and its lack of understanding.
“意大利人都觉得我们的身体还好好的，为什么狂欢节要被叫停？还有人举着牌子、拉着横幅，上街游行。
The Italians think we are in good health, why is Carnival called off and people marching up the streets with signs and banners.
”三天后，迫于行业和居民压力，宵禁取消了。
Three days later, under pressure from industry and residents, the curfew was lifted.
米兰市长朱塞佩·萨拉甚至在Instagram上发表言论说，米兰是个那么热情的城市，不能让它就此停止。
Milan's mayor, Giuseppe Sala, even said on Instagram that Milan was such a warm city that it could not be stopped.
米兰很安全，荒凉的街景会让人心生悲凉。
Milan is very safe, desolate street scenery will make people sad.
意大利人的日常清单里也没有口罩。
Italians also don't have masks on their daily lists.
在他们眼中，只有已患有极重传染病的人，才需要戴口罩。
In their view, only people with extremely serious infectious diseases need to wear masks.
“不会有多少人愿意戴，因为这意味着承认自己已经患病了。
"Not many people would like to wear it because it means admitting that they are ill.
”最先行动起来的，是中国留学生。
It was the Chinese students who first took the initiative.
“2月21日那一天，中国超市就很忙，第二天一家中国超市就因为缺货或是送货忙不过来而关门了。
"On Feb. 21, Chinese supermarkets were very busy, and the next day a Chinese supermarket closed because of stock shortages or because delivery was too busy.
”封城的前一天，Stella从超市网购了不少东西。
The day before the city was closed, Stella bought a lot from the supermarket network.
“我当时就觉得要囤一波货了。
"I thought I was hoarding a load of goods.
”水果蔬菜、维生素、餐巾纸、各种干的豆子，她要靠这四大袋的物资撑到这个月月底，“昨天我看到，预约送货的时间已经排到30号了。
Fruit and vegetables, vitamins, napkins, dried beans, all of which she had to hang on to until the end of the month.
”Stella今天打开App再次确认，但她发现，“已经不让预约了。
Stella opened the App today to reconfirm, but discovered, "I'm not allowed to make an appointment anymore.
”Stella囤了很多豆子在家，她说因为会有一段时间不能出门运动，想保持身材，且吃粗粮也比较不容易饿。
Stella, who has plenty of beans at home, said she wanted to stay in shape because she couldn't go out for a while and wasn't too hungry to eat coarse grains.
受访者供图封城后，意大利人也开始警惕了起来，广场上空无一人。
When the interviewees offered to seal the city, the Italians became alert, and the square was empty.
直到这几天，才慢慢有人开始走到街上。
It was not until the next few days that someone began to walk down the street.
Stella有时会打开房间里那扇朝着街道的窗户，有人在跑步，有人在遛狗。
Stella would sometimes open a street-facing window in her room, someone would run, someone would walk the dog.
“人们意识到生活还要继续。
"People realize that life has to go on.
” 上班的人还是继续乘坐电车，地铁上还是人挨着人。
People continued to take the trams to work, and the trains were still crowded with people.
可到了晚上，城市变得出奇的安静。
But at night the city became strangely quiet.
意大利人爱玩，若是没有疫情的话，晚上的酒吧和运河区，会是年轻人聚集的地方。
Italians love to play, if there is no epidemic, night bars and transport areas, will be a gathering place for young people.
在小酒馆里，他们花上十欧元，点一杯饮料，一坐就很久。
In the pub they spent ten euros, ordered a drink, and sat down for a long time.
“现在这些都没有了。
"None of this is available now.
”今年即将毕业的Stella原本打算投简历，找工作，但一切都因为疫情停滞了。
Stella, who is graduating this year, had planned to send a resume looking for a job, but the epidemic has stalled.
中国人要想留在意大利工作，本就不是件容易的事，现在情况变得更加艰难。
It was not easy for the Chinese to stay in Italy to work, but things are getting harder now.
网络上，还有些中国留学生在求回国的办法，他们说“很害怕、恐慌、睡不着觉”。
On the Internet, some Chinese students are looking for ways to return home, saying they are "scared, scared and unable to sleep."
但Stella来不及多想，还有好几篇期末论文在等着她，下学期的项目也已在线上展开了。
But Stella didn't have time to think about it. Several final papers were waiting for her, and projects for next semester were already online.
洋葱话题▼你有朋友在海外吗？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you go over to Quanzhou Complex = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留守意大利：“封城”后，4名华人的防疫日记。
Left behind in Italy: A diary of the epidemic prevention of four Chinese after the "closure" of the city.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "留守意大利：“封城”后，4名华人的防疫日记";。
var msg _ title = & quot; left behind at & quot; Italy: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; after the city was closed.
var msg_desc = "这是生活在意大利的华人们经历的第一次“封城”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it was the first time that Chinese living in Italy have experienced a "blockade."
";。
;; & quot;
title: '泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚',。
AT & amp; quanzhou's collapse: retrofitting, identifying defects, and having been repeatedly penalized and killed.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”',。
At RileyGuijin Hospital ICU Medical Director Fang Minghao: Seriously treated like Rangers & amp; Aposs;.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '疫情中的快递、外卖员：我们在工作，就代表城市在运转',。
Express and delivery in the epidemic: We are at work at Running & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
