湖北唯一中医主导的方舱院长刘清泉：中西医在新冠救治中作用互补。
Liu Qingquan, the only Chinese medicine master in Hubei Province: Chinese and Western medicine play complementary roles in the new crown treatment.
王昱倩。
Yu Wang.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
除了中医，江夏方舱也离不开一些西医的检测和诊疗手段，“中西医的优势是互补的，在疫情中是可以结合运用的。
Besides TCM, Jiangxia Fang can not leave some western medicine testing and diagnosis and treatment means, "the advantages of Chinese and Western medicine are complementary, in the epidemic situation can be combined with the use.
”刘清泉（左二）在武汉协和医院西院区为患者把脉诊疗。
"Liu Qingquan (second left) conducted pulse therapy for patients in the west courtyard of Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
图/北京中医医院微信公众号文 |新京报记者 王昱倩编辑 |李明校对 |付春愔►本文约4157字，阅读全文约需9分钟3月10日下午，江夏方舱医院运营了26天后，宣告闭舱。
Photo / Beijing Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital Weixin Public Notice & # 44; Wang Yu-qian, a reporter with Xinjing News, Wang Yu-qian, proofread by Li Ming, proofread by Li Ming. The full text will take about 9 minutes to read.
至此，武汉16家方舱医院全部结束了历史使命。
So far, Wuhan 16 cabin hospitals have all ended the historical mission.
江夏方舱是湖北唯一一个以中医药治疗为主的方舱医院。
Jiangxia Fang Fu is the only hospital in Hubei that is mainly treated with TCM.
中央指导组专家、北京中医医院院长刘清泉，担任江夏方舱医院院长。
Liu Qingquan, director of Beijing TCM Hospital and expert of the Central Steering Group, is the director of the Fangxia Fang Hospital.
刘清泉是国家中医医疗救治专家组副组长，1月21日，他以国家卫健委专家组成员的身份抵达武汉。
Liu Qingquan, vice-chairman of the National Expert Group on Medical Treatment of Chinese Medicine, arrived in Wuhan on January 21 as a member of the national health committee.
两个月的救治工作，每天只睡四五个小时。
Two months of treatment, only four or five hours of sleep a day.
他不仅要管理江夏方舱的运行，还要去武汉其他医院救治危重症患者。
He must not only manage the operation of the Jiang Xia square cabin, but also to other hospitals in Wuhan to treat critically ill patients.
作为唯一的中医方舱，江夏方舱共收治564个确诊病例，治愈482人，82人（含14名有基础病）尚未达出舱标准而转至定点医院。
As the only Chinese medicine cabinet, Jiang Xia Fang treated a total of 564 confirmed cases, cured 482 people, and 82 (including 14 with basic diseases) were referred to designated hospitals without meeting the required standards.
接受新京报记者专访时，刘清泉介绍，方舱共推出了5个中医药方，效果明显，还给出院患者开14服中药帮助其后期康复。
In an interview with a reporter from the Beijing News, Liu Qingquan introduced five Chinese medicine prescriptions in the capsule, with remarkable results, and gave patients discharged from hospital 14 doses of Chinese medicine to help them recover later.
除了中医，江夏方舱也离不开一些西医的检测和诊疗手段，“中西医的优势是互补的，在疫情中是可以结合运用的。
Besides TCM, Jiangxia Fang can not leave some western medicine testing and diagnosis and treatment means, "the advantages of Chinese and Western medicine are complementary, in the epidemic situation can be combined with the use.
”主动请战建一所中医方舱新京报：为什么会建立一所中医方舱医院？刘清泉：1月21日，我以国家卫健委专家组成员的身份抵达了武汉，会诊新冠肺炎的病人。
Invited to build a Chinese medicine cabinet, the Beijing News: Why was a Chinese medicine cabinet hospital built? Liu Qingquan: On January 21, I arrived in Wuhan as a member of the national health committee to consult patients with Newcastle Pneumonia.
经过一段时间的临床诊断与观察，我们发现，中医药对新冠肺炎普通型、轻型患者有良好的疗效。
After a period of clinical diagnosis and observation, we found that traditional Chinese medicine for the new crown pneumonia common, light patients have a good effect.
于是，张伯礼院士和我向中央指导组提出，分类隔离轻、重症患者，集中管理，用中药治疗。
So, Academician Zhang Berry and I to the Central Steering Group, the classification of light, severe patients, centralized management, with traditional Chinese medicine treatment.
国家决定建立方舱医院后，张院士和我合计承包一个方舱，主要以中医的方式治疗。
After the country decided to set up the hospital, the academician and I combined to contract a square cabin, mainly in the form of Chinese medicine.
于是，我们以中央指导组专家的身份写了请示。
So we wrote the instructions in our capacity as experts of the Central Steering Group.
很快，中央指导组就同意了。
Soon, the Central Steering Group agreed.
新京报：筹建过程是怎样的？刘清泉：获批后，我们组建了一支中医医疗队，有200多名医护人员，来自五个省份。
Liu Qingquan: After the approval, we set up a medical team of Chinese medicine with more than 200 medical personnel from five provinces.
江夏方舱是由大花山户外运动中心改建的。
Jiangxia square cabin is rebuilt by the outdoor sports center in Dahuashan.
开舱之前，张院士和我多次去看了建设现场，思考怎么更合理地规划。
Before we opened the cabin, Zhang and I went to the construction site several times to think about how to plan more rationally.
医疗队抵达后，先进行培训、熟识场地、院感检查。
The arrival of the medical team was followed by training, familiarization with the site and sensory examination.
2月14日，正式开舱收治病人。
On 14 February, the patient was officially opened.
我们的方舱医院划分为五个病区——天一区、豫二区、陕三区、湘五区、苏六区，每个病区是由对应省份的医务人员来管理。
Our square cabin hospital is divided into five disease areas-Tianyi District, Henan Region, Shaanxi Region, Xiangwu District and Su-Six District, each of which is managed by medical personnel from the corresponding provinces.
患者之间也有划分，比如天一区主要收治男患者，豫二区收治女患者。
There is also a division between the patients, such as Tianyi mainly admitted male patients, Henan Region 2 treatment of female patients.
新京报：收治情况如何？刘清泉：我们收治的都是确诊病例。
The Beijing News: What is the admission status? Liu Qingquan: We are all treated with confirmed cases.
A舱建好，第一批收了400个病人。
A was built, and the first batch took in 400 patients.
十几天后，B舱也建好了，加起来一共800张床位，总共收治了564人。
Ten days later, cabin B was built, totaling 800 beds, for a total of 564 people.
新京报：一所收治几百名患者的方舱，你们是怎么运作和管理的？刘清泉：我们采取了社区管理的方法，形成了每个科的社区。
The Beijing News: How do you operate and manage a cabin that accommodates hundreds of patients? Liu Qingquan: We have adopted a community management approach and formed a community in each section.
患者进舱登记时，我们把党员标出来，让党小组带领社区人员参加医疗活动。
When the patient registers, we mark out the party members and ask the party group to lead the community to medical activities.
他们相互之间鼓励，定时地锻炼、恢复。
They encourage each other to exercise and recover regularly.
后来，很多病人也加入医疗队，帮助医护人员发药、打扫卫生、运垃圾。
Later, many patients joined the medical team to help doctors and nurses dispense medicine, clean up and transport garbage.
我们要保证后勤人员零感染，不让清洁员进舱，垃圾都是由医护人员运出去。
We want to make sure that the crew is free of infection and that the cleaners are not allowed in.
有些护士年纪小，95后、00后的都有，有些病人看到后就主动来帮忙。
Some nurses are young, after 95, after 00 have, some patients see after the initiative to help.
我们一天至少三次查房，上午、下午、晚上各一次。
We check in at least three times a day, one in the morning, one in the afternoon and one in the evening.
科主任每天进舱重点查房。
The Chief of Section enters the cabin every day.
专家组就在指挥室坐镇，对病人病情综合讨论、判断。
Group of experts sitting in the command room, the patient's illness comprehensive discussion, judgement.
刘清泉（前排右一）在江夏方舱医院。
Liu Qingquan (1st from the front row) is in Jiangxia Fang Hospital.
图/北京中医医院微信公众号5个中药方和自制香囊新京报：新冠肺炎的中药方，是怎么拟定的？刘清泉：1月份我抵达武汉后，对新冠病人做了临床诊断。
How was the Chinese medicine formulated for the new crown pneumonia? Liu Qingquan: When I arrived in Wuhan in January, I made a clinical diagnosis of the new crown patient.
从中医的角度看，这次疫病“湿毒”的特征比较明显，病情发展非常快。
From the point of view of traditional Chinese medicine, this epidemic "wet poison" characteristics are relatively obvious, the disease development is very fast.
发病初期，病人发烧不是特别高，会出现消化道症状和干咳，起起伏伏，大概持续7到10天。
In the early stages of onset, the patient does not have a particularly high fever and may develop digestive symptoms and dry cough, with ups and downs, lasting approximately 7 to 10 days.
湿毒很容易化热，病人表现为高热、咳嗽、不能活动、喘促。
Wet poison is easily heated and the patient shows high fever, cough, inability to move and shortness of breath.
在治疗过程中，我们选择了一些经典名方，比如达原饮、厚朴夏苓汤、麻杏薏甘汤、银翘散等。
In the course of treatment, we chose some classic recipes, such as Liyao Da Yin, thick Park Xialing Tang, Maxingxiegan soup, Yinqiao powder.
临床效果不错，病人的体力尤其是疲倦、乏力改善得很明显。
The clinical effect is good, the patient's physical strength, especially tired, lack of improvement is very obvious.
烧慢慢退下来了，咳嗽、喘闷也缓解了。
The fever slowly receded and the coughing and wheezing subsided.
这也符合中医治疗湿毒疫病的疗效。
It is also consistent with the efficacy of TCM in treating wet virus disease.
1月21日，我和广安门医院的齐文升教授初步拟定了一个方案，后来经过国家中医药管理局专家组的讨论，确定了新冠肺炎诊疗的第一套中医方案，为后期的方案奠定了基础。
On January 21, Professor Qi Wensheng of Guanganmen Hospital and I made a preliminary proposal, which was discussed by a group of experts from the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
在临床取得了疗效之后，我们才想到承包中医方舱。
After the clinical curative effect, we only think of the contracted Chinese medicine cabinet.
新京报：接手中医方舱后，你们如何进行中医诊疗？刘清泉：我们一共推出5个中药方。
Beijing News: How do you carry out Chinese medicine diagnosis and treatment after taking over the Chinese medicine cabinet? Liu Qingquan: We offer 5 Chinese medicine prescriptions altogether.
根据国家中医药管理局的方案，我们做了一个肺炎治疗的药方。
According to the plan of the State Administration of Chinese Medicine, we have made a prescription for treating pneumonia.
我们根据方案推荐的清肺排毒汤，也做了一个方子。
We recommend Qingfei detoxification soup according to the plan, also made a recipe.
有些病人出现焦虑、失眠、情绪不稳定、食欲不好，我们又拟定了两个方子。
Some patients developed anxiety, insomnia, mood swings, and poor appetite, and we developed two more recipes.
后来，我们加了江夏方舱5号方，是针对病人出院以后，在两周观察期的愈后康复方。
Later, we added Jiangxia square cabin No. 5, is for patients discharged from the hospital, in the two-week observation period after the recovery.
新京报：作为唯一的中医方舱，会推出一些特色方案吗？刘清泉：我们有一些康复治疗的手段。
The Beijing News: As the only Chinese medicine cabinet, will there be some special plans? Liu Qingquan: We have some means of rehabilitation.
比如做八段锦、太极拳、经络拍打等，安排了固定的时间进行。
For example, do BaDuan brocade, Taijiquan, meridian patter and so on, arranged a fixed time.
这些活动振奋了大家的情绪，对患者的恢复有利。
These activities energized the mood and were beneficial for the recovery of the patients.
有些失眠、咳嗽、消化不好的病人，医护人员也给他做温灸、穴位按摩、耳穴埋豆等。
Some insomnia, cough, indigestion of patients, medical personnel also for him to do moxibustion, acupoint massage, ear acupoint embedding beans.
方舱里还有一个流动中药房，里面有三四百味中药。
There is also a mobile Chinese pharmacy inside which there are three or four hundred flavors of Chinese medicine.
医生处方来了之后，根据每个人的病情配方，能快速找到所需中药，配好处方，医护人员拿走后用开水冲泡。
After the doctor's prescription came, according to each person's formula, can quickly find the required Chinese medicine, prescription, medical staff took it with boiling water.
此外，各省的医疗队都带了一些自己配制的香囊。
In addition, medical teams in all governorates carried sachets made by themselves.
入院、出院的病人都赠送香囊。
Patients hospitalized and discharged are given sachets.
这既是一种关爱的方式，香疗对心情、食欲的改善也有好处。
This is not only a caring way, but also good for mood, appetite improvement.
新京报：有没有让你印象深刻的患者？刘清泉：豫二病区有一个女患者，她与老公、孩子都在不同的医院，心情很郁闷。
Liu Qingquan: There is a female patient in Henan II area. She is depressed with her husband and children in different hospitals.
我们想办法联系到了她的家人，一通上电话，心情一下子就好了。
We tried to get in touch with her family, a phone call, the mood immediately good.
这对病情的恢复是很有利的。
It is good for the recovery of the disease.
湘五病区的一个病人，没有吃中药的习惯，刚开始时嫌苦不愿意吃中药。
A patient of Xiangwu disease area, did not take Chinese traditional medicine habit, at the beginning disrelish bitter to take Chinese traditional medicine.
我们的科主任耐心劝导，后来他接受了中药，发现中药对食欲、身体机能的调整还挺有效果的。
Our director patient persuasion, later he accepted Chinese medicine, found Chinese medicine to appetite, body function adjustment is quite effective.
他爱人在另一家医院治疗，吃西药为主。
His wife in another hospital treatment, mainly Western medicine.
出舱后，他跟爱人开玩笑说，我的效果比你好，痊愈得更早。
When he got out of the cabin, he joked to his wife, "I've got better results than you, I got better earlier."
刘清泉在方舱内最后一次查房。
Liu Qingquan in the square cabin last house inspection.
患者取下口罩，让他查看舌苔。
The patient took off the mask and asked him to inspect the tongue coating.
新京报记者 戴轩 摄没有特效药，不代表没有有效的治疗方案新京报：穿着防护服、戴着护目镜，会不会影响中医诊断？刘清泉：有难度也得做。
Dai Xuan, a reporter for the Beijing News, does not mean that there is no effective treatment regimen, the Beijing News: wearing protective clothing, goggles, will affect the diagnosis of Chinese medicine? Liu Qingquan: Difficult to do.
不能说穿着防护服，戴着护目镜，基本的诊断思路就不做了。
It cannot be said that wearing protective clothing and goggles, the basic diagnostic thinking will not be done.
“望闻问切”对病人的问诊非常重要。
"Seeing and hearing" is very important to the patient's consultation.
比如，望舌相。
For example, tongue-tied.
早期病人的舌相是腻苔。
The tongue of an early patient was greasy with moss.
随着病情加重，舌苔逐渐变厚，由薄腻苔变成厚腻苔，舌苔变得白如积水。
As the disease worsens, the tongue grows thicker, from greasy moss to thick moss, and the tongue coating becomes white as water.
再进一步加重，变成黄苔，燥苔等。
Further aggravate, become yellow moss, dry moss and so on.
舌质由原来的淡红，变成舌质红，甚至变暗变紫。
Tongue quality from the original light red, into a red tongue, or even dark turned purple.
根据舌相的变化，对病人的诊断、治疗以及用药有重要的指导意义。
According to the change of tongue phase, it has important guiding significance for diagnosis, treatment and medication of patients.
新京报：在没有特效药的情况下，西医的主要手段也是支持治疗。
The Beijing News: In the absence of specific drugs, the main means of Western medicine is also to support treatment.
中医是不是也是这样？刘清泉：没有特效药物不代表我们就不会治病了。
Is the same true of TCM? Liu Qingquan: The absence of specific drugs does not mean that we will not cure the disease.
我们用一系列的组合拳，能把病人治好就够了。
We can cure the patient with a series of combinatorial fists.
即使有了特效的抗病毒药物，也不一定就能把病毒彻底杀死。
Even with specific antiviral drugs, you don't have to kill the virus completely.
这只是最佳的治疗手段之一，不是全部。
This is just one of the best treatments, not the whole story.
从中医的角度，也需要一种方法把病毒打死。
From the point of view of TCM, a way is also needed to kill the virus.
如果打不死呢，就采取另一种方法：调整人体的状态，让病毒没有适合生存的环境，不让它在里面呆着。
If you can't die, take another approach: adjust your body so that the virus doesn't have a habitable environment to keep it in.
所以我一直说，没有特效药物，并不代表我们没有有效的治疗方案，中医如此，西医也一样。
So I keep saying that the absence of specific drugs does not mean that we do not have an effective treatment plan, TCM, Western medicine is the same.
新京报：临床医生普遍反映有个治疗难题，比如重症患者的病情没有征兆地突然恶化，能通过中医手段及时发现吗？刘清泉：按照中医的经验，舌苔厚腻干燥、裂纹，病人精神很差，固然没有明显的咳喘，但这可能是个重病人，一定要更加关注。
Liu Qingquan: According to the experience of traditional Chinese medicine, the tongue is thickly coated, dry and cracked, and the patient is in a poor state of mind, although there is no obvious cough or asthma, it may be a serious illness and must be given more attention.
再比如，两目无神，也是病情加重的标志。
For example, the absence of divinity in both eyes is also a sign of aggravation.
在烈性传染病中，医生的观察不细致，没有及时捕捉到病情突然恶化，是情有可原的。
In acute infectious diseases, the doctor's observation is not meticulous, did not catch the sudden deterioration of the disease, is understandable.
这也要求我们静下心来，观察、观察再观察，找到这种新的疾病的规律。
It also requires us to calm down, observe, observe and observe, and find the laws of this new disease.
新京报：你觉得新冠病毒有哪些未知的方面？刘清泉：这个疾病来得很快，来得很重，给整个医学科学提出了太多不清楚、深感困惑的问题。
The Beijing News: What do you think about the new crown virus? Liu Qingquan: The disease has come so fast and so fast that it has raised too many unclear and perplexing questions for the whole medical science.
不知道怎么制伏它，很多病情的状态也不清楚。
Do not know how to subdue it, many of the state of the disease is not clear.
这也提醒我们，未来对病毒的研究要加大力度，人才的培养和技术的储备也要增强。
This also reminds us that future research on the virus should be intensified, talent training and technical reserves should be enhanced.
一个新的病毒来了以后，我们还没有找到规律和很好的办法，只能见招拆招。
Since a new virus has arrived, we have not found a regular and good way, can only admit it.
疫情逐渐消退，但对于这个病的认识，我们还处于很初级的阶段。
The epidemic is receding, but we are still at a very early stage in our understanding of the disease.
新京报：总的来说，江夏方舱的救治效果怎么样？刘清泉：从2月14日开舱，到3月10日休舱，江夏方舱医院在26天运营中，收舱人数564，治愈482人，82人（含14名有基础病）尚未达出舱标准而转至定点医院。
Liu Qingquan: From the opening of the cabin on February 14 to the closing of the cabin on March 10, Jiang Xia Fang Hospital operated for 26 days with 564 passengers, 482 cured, and 82 (including 14 with basic diseases) were referred to designated hospitals.
关键是医护人员的精心看护，及早发现、干预和治疗。
The key is intensive care, early detection, intervention and treatment by health-care personnel.
另外，中医的综合治疗手段，汤药、针灸、耳针、穴位贴敷等，也发挥了应有的作用。
In addition, the comprehensive treatment of traditional Chinese medicine, soup, acupuncture, ear acupuncture, acupoint paste, and so on, also played a due role.
新冠肺炎患者治愈后走出舱与医护人员合影。
Crowded pneumonia patients came out of the capsule to take pictures with the medical staff.
新京报记者 陶冉 摄“中、西医在疫情中的作用是互补的”新京报：闭舱后，你们会对病人的康复提供帮助吗？刘清泉：从江夏方舱出院的患者，每人都带上14服中药。
The role of Chinese and Western medicine in the epidemic situation is complementary, reported Tao Ran of the Beijing News. Will you help patients recover when their cabin is closed? Liu Qingquan: 14 doses of traditional Chinese medicine are taken by each of the patients discharged from Jiang Xia Square.
我们根据出院的情况开了汤药，对江夏区的病人做了后续工作。
We prescribed soup according to the condition of discharge and did follow-up work on the patients in Jiangxia area.
休舱前，五个省市的11位中医专家在江夏区中医院收了11个徒弟，这段时间就带着徒弟们出康复门诊，保证病人康复期的治疗。
Before the suspension, 11 Chinese medicine experts from five provinces and municipalities accepted 11 apprentices in the Jiangxi TCM Hospital. During this period, they took the disciples out of the rehabilitation clinic to ensure the rehabilitation of the patients.
疾病从康复到治愈有一个过程。
There is a process from recovery to cure.
出院只是证明可以不在医院了，但完全康复进入社会工作，还需要一段时间。
Discharges from the hospital only prove that it is possible to stay away from the hospital, but it will take some time to fully recover and move into social work.
我们正在对出院的病人做观察研究，计划拿出一套康复方案。
We are conducting an observation study of patients discharged from the hospital and are planning to come up with a rehabilitation programme.
新京报：中医方舱会用到西医治疗的手段吗？刘清泉：中、西医可以结合运用。
Beijing News: Will traditional Chinese medicine treatment be used in the Chinese medicine cabinet? Liu Qingquan: Chinese and Western medicine can be combined.
与其他的方舱医院一样，江夏方舱的每个病人都要进行CT筛查。
As with other cabin hospitals, every patient in the Jiang Xia capsule underwent CT screening.
患者入院时，查看他的既往病史，要做血糖、淋巴细胞、白细胞、C反应蛋白、咽拭子等检查。
On admission, the patient is examined for past medical history, blood sugar, lymphocytes, leukocytes, C-reactive protein, swabs, etc.
在治疗期间，我们也会测血氧饱和度、心率、体温这些指标。
We also measured blood oxygen saturation, heart rate and body temperature during treatment.
判断一个患者是否具备出院的条件，专家组就在指挥室，对他的指标综合讨论。
To determine whether a patient meets the criteria for discharge, the Group is in the command room, where his indicators are discussed in a comprehensive manner.
新京报：你怎么看待中、西医在这次疫情中发挥的作用。
The Beijing News: What do you think about the role of Chinese and Western medicine in this epidemic?
刘清泉：中医有中医的长处，西医有西医的优势，它们是互补的。
Liu Qingquan: Chinese medicine has the advantages of traditional Chinese medicine, Western medicine has the advantages of Western medicine, they are complementary.
没有现代西医的诊断技术，你知道它是什么病吗，有没有传染性，什么时候能治好吗？尤其在这场战役中，谁能上谁上。
Without the diagnostic techniques of modern Western medicine, do you know what it is, is it contagious, and when it can be cured? Especially in this battle, who can go up to whom?
控制疫情、救命是根本任务。
Controlling the epidemic and saving lives are fundamental tasks.
我们也与国外的中医专家有讨论和沟通，看能不能用我们的经验，为当地的病人提供一些服务。
We also have discussions and communication with foreign Chinese medicine experts to see if we can use our experience to provide some services to local patients.
新京报：江夏方舱休舱后，你现在的工作重心是什么？刘清泉：除了方舱的工作，我每天与急救危重症的专家们一起查房、会诊ICU的重症病人。
Liu Qingquan: In addition to the work on the cabin, I check the room with the experts who are in urgent and critical condition every day, and consult the patients with serious illness in ICU.
快两个月了，每天只能睡四五个小时。
Nearly two months, four or five hours a day.
武汉几乎所有的医院都去过了，我们天天都在ICU病房里，与中、西医的同行们思考、讨论。
Wuhan almost all the hospitals have been to, we are in ICU ward every day, with the colleagues of Chinese and Western medicine think, discuss.
对于危重病人，如何用药，减少呼吸机的损害、稳定血压等，都是非常复杂的过程，不是一个方子、一味药能解决的，这需要中西医的有机配合。
For the critically ill, how to use medicine, reduce the damage of ventilator, stabilize blood pressure, etc, are very complicated processes, not a prescription, blindly medicine can be solved, this needs the organic cooperation of Chinese and Western medicine.
新京报：你怎么看待方舱医院这样的模式？刘清泉：方舱发挥了重要的作用，使疫情得到控制。
The Beijing News: What do you think of the model like Fang Cao Hospital? Liu Qingquan: The square has played an important role in bringing the outbreak under control.
其实大家都希望早闭舱，疫情早结束，但是又有一种遗憾，好像还没有把力量用完。
In fact, we all hope that the early closure of the cabin, the epidemic has ended, but there is a kind of regret, as if the strength has not been exhausted.
有的人说，不想出院了，其实是对方舱医护服务的感念。
Some people said, do not want to leave the hospital, in fact is the other side of the cabin medical care.
但方舱是个医院，没有人愿意在医院生活。
But the cabin was a hospital, and no one wanted to live in it.
我们也希望他尽早出院，回归正常生活。
We also hope that he can be discharged from hospital and return to normal life.
短短时间内，出现几万病人，任何一个国家和城市，都无法承载。
In a short period of time, tens of thousands of patients, any country and city, can not bear.
如何迅速地建立新的医疗资源，让病人应治尽治，方舱是一个非常好的办法。
How to quickly build new medical resources, so that patients should be treated, the cabin is a very good way.
这为将来我们应对各种疫情提供了非常好的经验。
This provides us with very good experience in dealing with various epidemics in the future.
洋葱话题▼你对中医怎么看？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读留守意大利：“封城”后，4名华人的防疫日记泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell us about Chinese medicine = Why don't you tell me why = = = Why don't you tell me why = = Why don't you tell me why = = Why don't you tell me why = = Why don't you tell me why.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北唯一中医主导的方舱院长刘清泉：中西医在新冠救治中作用互补。
Liu Qingquan, the only Chinese medicine master in Hubei Province: Chinese and Western medicine play complementary roles in the new crown treatment.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "湖北唯一中医主导的方舱院长刘清泉：中西医在新冠救治中作用互补";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Liu Qingquan, Hubei's only Chinese medicine-dominated cabin dean: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "中医有中医的长处，西医有西医的优势，它们是互补的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Chinese medicine has the strengths of traditional Chinese medicine, and Western medicine has the advantages of Western medicine.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '留守意大利：“封城”后，4名华人的防疫日记',。
Ritual: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '泉州隔离酒店坍塌：加层改建、鉴定瑕疵、曾被多次处罚',。
AT & amp; quanzhou's collapse: retrofitting, identifying defects, and having been repeatedly penalized and killed.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '金银潭医院ICU医疗组长房明浩：重症救治就像“走钢丝”',。
At RileyGuijin Hospital ICU Medical Director Fang Minghao: Seriously treated like Rangers & amp; Aposs;.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
