骑行1万5千公里寻找人生的答案，直到遇见疫情。
Ride 15, 000 kilometers to find the answer to your life, until you run into an epidemic.
小昼。
Daylight.
极昼工作室                      。
Daylight Studio.
极昼工作室。
Daylight Studio.
为坚持严肃阅读的人群提供选项。
Offer options for people who insist on serious reading.
搜狐新闻极昼工作室。
Sohu News Polar Daylight Studio.
。
.
新疆无人区，连绵不断的戈壁滩 。
In no man's land of Xinjiang, continuous Gobi beach.
受访者供图摘要：2019年2月19日，湖北人灰兔为了寻找生活的意义，决定用一年时间环中国骑行。
2007-9-25 21: 19 2019, Hubei Grey Rabbit to find the meaning of life, decided to cycle around China for a year.
旅程即将结束时，疫情爆发，灰兔寸步难行，最终在厦门被带去酒店隔离，后来成为酒店的一名志愿者。
Toward the end of the journey, the outbreak of an outbreak of grey hares, finally in Xiamen was taken to the hotel isolation, and later became a volunteer hotel.
他本以为在旅途中找到了答案，现在发现那些轻飘飘的忧虑不值一提。
He had thought he had found the answer on his journey, and now he found that the frivolous cares were nothing to speak of.
文|李晓芳编辑|王珊灰兔设想过很多种旅行结束的方式：一路骑到国境最北端的漠河，在最冷的季节看一场大雪；或是回到出发地上海，和路上结识的朋友再次相聚；甚至彻底扔掉地图，骑满365天，骑到哪里算哪里。
Ride all the way to the northernmost tip of the border, watch a heavy snow fall in the coldest weather; or return to Shanghai, where you started and met friends on the road; or throw out the map altogether and ride 365 days, wherever you go.
灰兔24岁，皮肤微黑，个子不算太高，想法不算特立独行。
Grey rabbit 24 years old, dark skin, not too tall, the idea is not a maverick.
一年前，他突然厌倦了一成不变的生活，决定环中国骑行，渴望找到一个关于自我和生活的答案。
A year ago, suddenly tired of his life, he decided to cycle around China, eager to find an answer about himself and his life.
三百多天的骑行路上，灰兔带着他的橙色帐篷睡过各种地方，立交桥下、无人的广场、公园的凉亭、山上的寺庙、荒凉的戈壁滩、乡村老人院……他见过形形色色的人，渴望骑哈雷摩托去旅行的中年交警，念经时打瞌睡的小沙弥，还有60多岁的老大爷在西藏捡了一块石头藏起来，三年后又去了一趟西藏，只为了把石头挖出来。
On the 300-day ride, Grey Rabbit took his orange tent to sleep in all sorts of places, under the overpass, in the no-man's square, in the park gazebo, in the mountain temple, in the desolate Gobi beach, in the village old people's home.
起初，他想通过“上路”拨开生活中的重重迷雾。
At first, he wanted to "hit the road" to get out of the fog of life.
旅程的结尾，他觉得自己走出了那片雾气，找到了答案。
At the end of the journey, he felt himself out of the fog and found the answer.
然后，疫情来了。
And then, here comes the epidemic.
还有27天，就要走到终点，武汉“封城”了。
There are 27 days to go to the end of the end, Wuhan "closed".
作为一个在外游荡的湖北人，灰兔在厦门“落网”，被带去隔离。
As a wandering Hubei people, the gray rabbit in Xiamen "catch", was taken to the isolation.
这时，他发现，之前的问题和答案，在疫情面前不值一提。
At this time, he found that the previous questions and answers, in the face of the epidemic is not worth mentioning.
骑行至辽阔荒凉的西北旷野。
Ride to the vast and desolate northwest wilderness.
受访者供图“普鲁斯特”问卷2019年2月19日，元宵节，灰兔带上帐篷、换洗衣服、手机相机、一堆压缩饼干，还有一份“普鲁斯特问卷”，骑上自行车出发了。
On February 19, 2019, at the Lantern Festival, the Greyhare took a tent, changed clothes, a cell phone camera, a pile of compressed biscuits, and a Proust Questionnaire.
灰兔是湖北荆门人，而后考上武汉大学。
Hare is Hubei Jingmen people, and then admitted to Wuhan University.
填志愿时，药学的名称看着最短，就选择了这个专业。
Fill in the volunteer, the name of pharmacy looks the shortest, chose this major.
毕业后，他顺利找到一份实习工作，干了三四个月，得到了转正名额。
After graduation, he managed to find an internship job, worked for three or four months, and got a regular job.
每天上班就是盯着药物生产流程，处理药材进出库文件，不需要动脑，时间长了，工作甚至成了一种下意识动作。
Everyday work is staring at the drug production process, processing documents in and out of the drug storage, no need to use brain, long time, work has even become a subconscious action.
公司有工作了三年、十年、二十年的前辈，灰兔看着他们，觉得看到了自己的未来。
The company has worked for three years, ten years, twenty years of predecessors, gray rabbits look at them, feel that they see their future.
“我想要的到底是不是这种生活？” 他陷入迷茫。
"What I want is this kind of life after all?" He was lost.
正式转正的前两天，灰兔仓促地提了离职。
The first two days before the formal correction, Grey Rabbit hastily offered to leave.
他害怕不离开，就再也不能离开。
He was afraid that he would never leave without leaving.
既然不知道自己想要什么，就把在意的东西全部丢掉，从零开始经历一遍生活，“再想我是真的需要它们吗？”出发前，灰兔烧掉最喜欢的衣服、抱枕，还有日记，捐了身上所有的钱。
Since he didn't know what he wanted, he threw away all the things he cared about and went through life from scratch. "Do you think I really need them?" Before leaving, the Grey Rabbit burned his favorite clothes, carried his pillow, kept a diary, and donated all his money.
灰兔并不是一个莽撞的人，大学时期，他跑马拉松，会将自己的日程表精确到分钟，严格规定每天吃多少麦片，喝几升牛奶。
The Greyhare was not a reckless man. As a college marathoner, he ran marathons, kept his schedule to the minute, and set strict limits on how much cereal to eat and a few liters of milk to drink.
但关于旅行，他只有大致方向，没有具体计划。
As for travel, however, he had only a general orientation and no specific plans.
甚至在最开始，连方向也没有。
Even in the beginning, there was no direction.
大学时期参加马拉松比赛的灰兔。
Grey hare who participated in the marathon in college.
受访者供图只有“普鲁斯特”问卷是提前就拟好的，这类问卷会针对被提问者的生活、价值观、人生经验等拟定问题，在19世纪因作家普鲁斯特的答案而闻名。
Only Proust questionnaires were prepared in advance and were known in the 19th century for their answers to questions about the lives, values and life experiences of the interviewees.
灰兔仿照着问卷列出了12个他最困惑的问题：“你对现在的生活满意吗？”“你有什么想做而没有做的事？”“有什么事情阻拦了你？”他从上海出发，一路向北，骑行1万5千公里，沿路寻找这些问题的答案。
"Are you satisfied with your life right now?" "What did you want to do that didn't do?" He set out from Shanghai and rode 15, 000 kilometers north, looking for answers to these questions.
灰兔把问题抛给路上遇见的各种人。
The Grey Rabbit threw questions at all the people he met on the road.
骑行第一天，在上海松江的小饭馆，他问老板17岁的儿子，觉得人生中最幸运的事是什么？小男孩想了想，露出腼腆笑容，当然是找到对象。
On the first day of the ride, at a restaurant in Songjiang, Shanghai, he asked his 17-year-old son what he thought was the luckiest thing in his life.
灰兔又去问老板娘，干练的妇人回答：“听说别人开店时不时被骚扰，我开店一路平平安安，也算是幸运了。
'asked the Hare, and the able woman answered,' I was fortunate to hear that other people's shops are being harassed from time to time, and that I have kept my shop safe and sound.
”路遇大雨，嘉兴汽修店的老板看着被冻得瑟瑟发抖的灰兔，领着他进了有暖气的房间。
After a heavy rain, the owner of Jiaxing's garage watched the shivering grey rabbit and led him into the heated room.
老板喜欢钓鱼，灰兔问他，有没有什么特别想过的人生？老板说，这个问题没有意义，谁不想大富大贵应有尽有？但迟疑了一会，又说，只要能做自己喜欢的事就好，随心所欲。
The boss asked him if he had any particular life he wanted to live.The boss said there was no point in the question and who didn't want to be rich and opulent, but hesitated for a moment and said that as long as he could do what he liked, he did what he wanted.
到了河南，大篷车上表演的豫剧团主动招呼灰兔一起吃午饭，灰兔问里面一位51岁的花臂大叔，活着是为了什么？花臂大叔说，为了家庭的幸福吧。
When the Henan Henan Henan Henan Henan Henan opera troupe performed on the caravan volunteered to invite Grey Rabbit to have lunch with him.
想了想补充，为了自己的喜欢。
Think to want to add, in order to like their own.
灰兔在日记里巨细靡遗地记录下路上每个人给他的回答，但每个人的答案都没办法解答他的疑惑。
In his diary, the Greyhare meticulously recorded the answers given to him by everyone on the road, but none of the answers could answer his doubts.
“问多了之后，你会发现别人的答案，跟你没什么关系。
"After asking a lot of questions, you'll find that the other person's answer has nothing to do with you.
”灰兔是个喜欢读书的理科男。
"Grey Rabbit was a science boy who liked to read.
刚开始骑行，他会在路上看黑塞，边骑车边整段背诵海明威的文章。
At the start of the ride, he would watch Hesse on the road and recite Hemingway's article on his bike.
经过一大片被细雨湿过的田野，他突然想起米沃什的半句诗：“一只蝴蝶愚蠢地跨海航行”。
After a long drizzle-wet field, he suddenly remembered a half-line from Miwash: "A butterfly foolishly crosses the sea."
有时，他觉得自己对生活的困惑消失了。
Sometimes he felt his confusion over life disappear.
那是在安徽山间的一段下坡路上，他放开车闸，太阳明亮，春风拂面，呼吸的空气、车轮驶过的柏油路面、路边早起的人们，“过去那些忧愁不复存在。
He let go of the brakes, the sun was bright, the spring breeze blew on his face, the air he breathed, the asphalt that passed on the wheels, the early risers on the side of the road.
我在疾驰而下的快乐中把它忘掉了，它像是阳光下的初雪，迅速消融。
I forgot it in my swift delight, like the early snow in the sun that melts quickly.
”但过了几天，他坐在路边看湖，水腥味扑进鼻腔，瞬间被孤独捕获了，他不知道自己究竟想要什么，趴在帐篷里，动弹不得。
But a few days later he sat by the side of the road looking at the lake, the smell of the water rushing into his nose, and he was instantly alone.
“我想打破自己的笼子，于是我就上了路。
"I wanted to break my cage, and I was on my way.
可我并没有感觉自己好到哪去，笼子锁在我心里，我走哪儿都把它带着。
But I didn't feel so good about myself. The cage was locked in my heart. I took it everywhere I went.
”他在日记里写。
"he wrote in his diary.
骑行第105天，灰兔寄住在河南王屋山上的一座道观里。
On the 105th day of the ride, the Greyhare lived in a Taoist view of the Wangyue Mountain in Henan Province.
早上7点食堂开饭，8点10分上早课。
The canteen opens at seven in the morning and has morning classes at eight ten.
义工和道士们轮流值殿，剩下的时间凑在一起喝茶聊天，聊山下的美食、修仙的道友，对着观里的狸花猫吹完一整首《绿野仙踪》。
The volunteers and Taoists took turns to watch the house. The rest of the time they spent together drinking tea and chatting, talking about the food down the mountain, the friends of Xiuxian, blowing the whole "The Wizard of Oz" to the beaver cat.
山上的生活称得上悠哉，但灰兔还是想着他的问卷。
Life on the mountain was leisurely, but the Greyhare was thinking about his questionnaire.
他和一位道士聊天，问对方：“道士修道，什么是道？”道士告诉他：“身体力行的就是真道。
He chatted with a Taoist priest and asked him, "What is Tao, Taoist priesthood?" The Taoist told him, "What you practice is the truth.
怎么描述道不重要，重要的是你做了什么。
It doesn't matter what you say. What matters is what you do.
”王屋山上的道士，对着狸花猫吹《绿野仙踪》。
The Taoist priest on the Wangyue Mountain blew The Wizard of Oz at the beaver cat.
受访者供图灰兔的答案从道观离开，灰兔说不清是什么最终触动了他。
The interviewee gave the answer to the Grey Rabbit from the Taoist view and the Grey Rabbit could not tell what finally touched him.
那是骑行的第114天，他到了山西，参观完一座古庙，重新跨上车。
It was the 114th day of the ride. He went to Shanxi, visited an old temple and got back on board.
路上是大片大片的田野，一眼望不到头，时间也还早，才五点半，离天黑还有一段时间。
The road was a vast expanse of fields, with no end in sight, and it was still early, half-past five, some time before dark.
就在那片漫无边际的田野上，灰兔第一次觉得笼子出现了裂痕，“过去那些困扰我的问题一下子离我远去了，我睡过马路边，睡过天桥底下，甚至垃圾堆旁边，我觉得自己可以选择任何一种人生。
For the first time in the boundless field, the hare felt the crack in the cage. "The problems that had plagued me in the past vanished from me. I slept by the roadside, under the bridge, even beside the rubbish heap.
天地这么广阔，我在天地间又是如此自由，好像我随时随地可以去到任何地方。
Heaven and earth are so vast, I am so free between heaven and earth, as if I could go anywhere anytime.
”他开始明白王屋山上道士说的话，他不再拿问卷问人，“那些问题大而空。
"He began to understand the words of the Taoist priest on Wangyue Mountain.
”遇到有趣的人，他会跟着他们走一段路。
"If he met interesting people, he would follow them a little way.
刚出发时，他在湖州警局门口扎帐篷，值班的警察邀请他进去喝茶，又往他手里塞了八根肉串。
Just as he set out, he set up a tent outside the Huzhou police station. The policeman on duty invited him in for tea and stuffed eight more kettles into his hand.
队长羡慕灰兔此刻的自由，说自己二十出头当上交警，一干就是十年，再没有出去玩的时间。
The captain envied Greyhare's freedom at the moment, saying that he was in his early twenties and had been a traffic policeman for ten years.
队长是交警，看过太多的生命在自己面前逝去，但他还是喜欢摩托，想出去旅游，希望驾驶一辆哈雷穿过长长的街道，在不同的城市间落脚。
The captain, a traffic policeman, had seen too many lives pass in front of him, but he still liked motorcycles, wanted to travel, wanted to drive a Hadley through the long streets, between different cities.
一位老伯刚见面就邀请灰兔住进家里，领着他逛遍整个湖州。
An old uncle just met and invited Grey Rabbit to live in the house, leading him around the whole Huzhou.
灰兔在老伯家住了三天，听他讲当地历史。
The Grey Rabbit lived at his old uncle's for three days, listening to him tell the local history.
湖州老伯一直想买辆车沿着318国道一路开下去，或者是从杭州，沿京杭大运河开到另一头的北京通州。
Huzhou has always wanted to buy a car along the 318 National Highway, or from Hangzhou, along the Great Canal to the other side of Beijing Tongzhou.
他还想去看看富春江，他说千岛湖也很美，不同于太湖，有另一种风格。
He also wanted to see Fuchun River, he said Qiandao Lake is also very beautiful, different from Taihu Lake, there is another style.
他考好了驾照，家人却觉得危险。
He got his driver's license, but his family felt dangerous.
老伯在最后一个晚上告诉灰兔，他这辈子基本没出过湖州。
The old man told Grey Hare on the last night that he had never been out of Huzhou in his life.
往西骑到拥有辽阔草原的内蒙古，灰兔遇到一位从南昌骑过来的大爷，带着一只黑白花色的小狗。
On his way westward to Inner Mongolia, with its vast grassland, Grey Rabbit meets a big man riding from Nanchang with a black-and-white puppy.
小狗是流浪犬，南昌大爷在呼和浩特遇见它，喂了根火腿肠，它就坐进车筐里不肯动了。
The puppy was a stray dog. Uncle Nanchang met him in Hohhot and fed him a ham sausage. He sat in the basket and refused to move.
大爷给小狗取名“远征”，带它一起上路。
Grandpa named the puppy "Expeditionary" and took it with him on the road.
南昌大爷的目标是骑完全国。
Uncle Nanchang's goal is to ride the whole country.
42岁时他准备出发，为此提前一年准备自行车、帐篷，家里老人却不同意。
At the age of 42 he was ready to start, preparing his bike and tent a year ahead of schedule, but the family did not agree.
52岁时，他觉得不能再等了，时间耽误不起，他直接辞了职。
At the age of 52, he felt unable to wait any longer. Time ran out and he resigned.
遇到灰兔时，他已经骑完了十六个省。
He had ridden sixteen provinces when he met the Grey Rabbit.
大叔和“远征”。
The uncle and the expedition.
受访者供图大爷在兰州拉面店就着啤酒，神采飞扬地说着自己的目标。
The interviewee offered Uncle Tu a beer in Lanzhou noodle shop and said his goal with flying colors.
灰兔想，他知道自己想要什么，十年未曾动摇。
'He knows what he wants, 'thought the Hare,' and he hasn't wavered for ten years.
大爷出发的那一刻起，旅程就完成了，剩下的只是无关紧要的过程。
From the moment he set out, the journey was done, and all that remained was the unimportant process.
两人一狗在内蒙古相见，也在此地分离。
A dog and two dogs meet in Inner Mongolia and are separated here.
南昌大爷将“远征”托付给一位建筑工人，灰兔突发急性咽炎，停在原地休整，大爷一人继续往前。
Uncle Nanchang will "expedition" entrusted to a construction worker, gray rabbit acute pharyngitis, stopped in place to rest, Grandpa continued alone.
临走前，大爷骑车出去了一趟，过了许久回来，递给灰兔几个沉甸甸的塑料袋，灰兔对着阳光一看，装着几瓶什锦罐头。
Before he left, he went out on a bike. After a long time, he handed the rabbit some heavy plastic bags, and he looked into the sun and filled a few bottles of assorted cans.
灰兔拿着罐头想说谢谢，但最终什么也没说出来。
The Hare took the can and tried to say thank you, but in the end nothing came out.
他没找到答案，但找到了让一天充实的秘诀：不要想太多，睡前不要玩手机；早睡早起，多吃粗粮；在年轻的时候，找到永恒不变的事物。
He didn't find the answer, but he found the secret to a more fulfilling day: Don't think too much, don't play with your cell phone before bed, go to bed early and get up early to eat lots of coarse grains.
到了甘肃，灰兔一路骑进了原本要避开的新疆，路上遇到的人越来越少，公路似乎直接与天际接壤，到处是几百公里起步的无人区，极目远眺，是复制粘贴一样的成片戈壁滩。
In Gansu, the Grey Rabbit rode all the way to Xinjiang, where fewer and fewer people were to be seen, and the highway seemed to be directly bordered by the sky, with hundreds of kilometres of no-man's land in no man's land, overlooking replica-paste patches of Gobi beach.
2019年9月，抵达甘肃酒泉市，在戈壁滩上露营。
Arrived in Jiuquan, Gansu Province, in September 2019 to camp out on Gobi Beach.
受访者供图大部分时间只是机械地蹬着脚踏板。
Respondents only mechanically pedal their pedals most of the time.
所幸景色足够壮丽，灰兔看了无数次极美的日出日落，看银河悬在头顶。
Fortunately, the scenery is magnificent enough, the rabbit has seen countless beautiful sunrise and sunset, see the Milky Way hanging overhead.
晚上把帐篷往戈壁滩上一扔，就可以倒头大睡。
Throw your tent on the Gobi beach at night and fall asleep.
在那样荒凉辽阔的旷野上，他彻底理解道士说的“道”，“我走过山川湖海，睡过古庙道观戈壁沙漠，见的这一切就是解答。
In such a vast wilderness, he thoroughly understood the Taoist word "Tao," "I walked across the mountains and lakes, slept in the ancient temple and looked at the Gobi Desert, all these are the answers.
” “我以为在旅程中我会寻找出一道界限，划分出自己生活的范围，也许是一座城市，一份工作，或者是一个学位。
"" I thought that on my journey I would look for a line to delineate the boundaries of my life, perhaps a city, a job, or a degree.
但其实并没有那样一条线。
But there is no such line.
”苦寻答案的问题消解了，灰兔说，或许问题本身就是不存在的。
'The question of the answer dissolves,' said the Grey Rabbit.
秋风掠过，又迅速进入难熬的冬天。
Autumn wind skimmed, and quickly into the difficult winter.
快到结束的时刻了。
It's almost the end.
在青海省海东市遇见的无人游乐园，当晚在这里露营。
Unattended amusement park in Haidong, Qinghai Province. Camped here that night.
受访者供图隔离灰兔在广东湛江的一处广场上迎来了新年的第一天。
The interviewee provided a picture to isolate the grey hares on the first day of the New Year in a square in Zhanjiang, Guangdong.
跳广场舞的大妈们难得放了个假，灰兔睡到了自然醒。
Piazza dance of the great mothers rarely put a holiday, gray rabbit sleep to wake up naturally.
1月14日，家人催他回荆门老家过年。
On January 14, his family urged him back to his hometown of Jingmen for the New Year.
他想了想，说好的骑行一年不能少，只差最后一个月了。
He thought about it and said that a good ride could last only a year, only the last month.
他决定绕过湖北，骑到福建。
He decided to bypass Hubei and ride to Fujian.
灰兔是个对新闻不太敏感的人。
The Grey Rabbit is not very sensitive to the news.
过去一年，除了在无人区，他从未与外界断过联系，但那些显示在手机上的新闻——非洲猪瘟、鼠疫，对他来说，更像是一些“遥远的余波”。
He has never been cut off from the outside world in the past year except in no man's land, but the news on his cell phone - African swine fever, plague - is more like a "distant aftershock" to him.
灰兔一直在论坛更新自己的骑行日记。
The Grey Rabbit has been updating his biking diary in the forum.
1月23日，武汉“封城”，早上8点，他在论坛里发了一张图片，一位宇航员在月球上看着陨石砸向地球，配文：飘在外面，感想是这样的。
Wuhan "closed the city" January 23, 8 a.m., he issued a picture of the forum, an astronaut on the moon to see the meteorite hit the earth, wafted outside, the feeling is like this.
他照常收拾行李准备出发。
He packed his bags as usual and set off.
路上和家人朋友聊起“封城”，大家都觉得不会持续太久。
On the way to talk with family and friends about the "closure", we do not think it will last long.
网友也没太当回事，还祝他新年快乐，问他什么时候更新游记。
The netizen also did not take seriously, also wished him happy New Year, asks him when updates the travel diary.
海南省琼州市，在帐篷里看到的大海。
A sea seen in a tent in Qiongzhou, Hainan Province.
受访者供图1月25日，大年初一，灰兔从漳州骑向厦门，贴着海岸线骑行。
The respondents showed that on January 25, the Chinese New Year's Day, Grey Rabbit rode from Zhangzhou to Xiamen, riding close to the coastline.
路上，他和一位骑着摩托车的白衣青年一起骑上了一座山，山顶有高高矗立的风车，云朵像潮水漫过山顶，更远处是大海，和天空融为一体。
On the way, he and a young man in white on a motorcycle rode up a mountain with windmills high up, clouds like the tide over the top of the mountain, the sea farther away, merging with the sky.
当天从山上下来，一切都变了。
It all changed when it came down the mountain.
家人不再催促他回家，母亲说，要不然你就骑到东南亚去。
His family stopped urging him to go home, his mother said, or else you would ride to Southeast Asia.
整座城市空空荡荡，路上看不见行人，零星车辆从他身边驶过。
The whole city was empty, no passers-by could be seen on the road, and scattered vehicles passed him.
那天，全国30个省级行政区先后启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
On that day, the country's 30 provinces and municipalities successively launched a major public health emergency first-level response.
湖北全省除了襄阳、神农架林区，所有城市封闭公共交通。
Hubei Province in addition to Xiangyang, Shennongjia forest areas, all cities closed public transport.
灰兔突然回过味来，“为什么骑着车就变成了世界终末的旅行？”他打算找旅馆洗漱休息，老板一律先问，“你是哪里人？”“湖北。
The Grey Rabbit suddenly relished, "Why is riding a car becoming the end of the world's journey?" He decided to go to the hotel to wash and rest, and the boss always asked, "Where are you from?"
”得到的回答是客满了，旅馆停业了，不提供住宿了。
The reply was that the place was full, and the hotel was closed for lodging.
城里的洗浴中心也取消了住宿业务。
The city's bathing centre has also cancelled its accommodation operations.
没有办法。
There was no way.
他在厦门周边转悠，又骑了十几公里，进了路边一家小旅店，“你好，我虽然是湖北人，但一年都在外面骑车没有回去，这是我一年的移动轨迹……”手机刚掏出来，老板躲了过去，挥手示意他快走。
He wandered around Xiamen and rode a dozen kilometers into a roadside inn. "Hello, I'm from Hubei, but I've been cycling outside for a year and it's been a year since I got back..."
他在小区周围落脚，附近居民恐惧那顶不明来路的帐篷，向街道办打了投诉电话。
He settled around the neighborhood, where residents, fearing an unidentified tent, called the street office to complain.
过去一年里，灰兔遇见的绝大多数都是善意，饭店老板会多加一勺面，骑行的短期旅伴给他塞几袋酸奶，陌生的人们会邀请一个异乡人住进自己家。
Over the past year, the Greyhare has met mostly in good faith, with the owner adding a spoonful of noodles, his short-term travelling companion stuffing him with bags of yogurt, and strangers inviting a stranger to live in their own home.
骑行途中，常常会迎面碰上没有预告的暴雨，“但你只要一直往前骑，前面总会迎来晴天的，然后就可以在阳光下把衣服晒干。
On the way, you often run into a downpour without warning, but as long as you go ahead, there will always be a clear day ahead, and then you can dry your clothes in the sun
”他把那些歧视、拒绝看做总会消散的暴雨。
"He sees discrimination and rejection as storms that always dissipate.
他一直相信，前方会有好事发生。
He had always believed that something good would happen ahead.
1月29日清晨，灰兔在帐篷中被人叫醒，被带去厦门的酒店进行14天隔离。
Early in the morning of January 29, the Grey Rabbit was woken up in a tent and taken to a hotel in Xiamen for 14 days of isolation.
酒店不收费，他每天看漫画、打游戏，坐在靠窗的桌前整理游记。
There is no charge. He reads comics, plays games and sits at a table by the window to arrange his travels every day.
酒店负责人老郭觉得他一路骑行不容易，自掏腰包给了他一千块，灰兔转头把钱捐给了湖北的抗疫基金会。
The hotel manager, Lao Guo, thought it was not easy for him to ride all the way. He paid him a thousand yuan out of his own pocket.
2月10日，隔离期结束，他拿着酒店开具的健康证明重新上路，想四处看看，记录这个特殊时期里都发生了什么。
On 10 February, at the end of the quarantine period, he returned to the road with a health certificate issued by the hotel and wanted to look around and record what had happened during that particular period.
但出了酒店，他才发现，“事态比在酒店拉着窗帘看电视，吃着一天三顿准点送到的隔离餐的我，所能想象得严峻得更多。
But when he got out of the hotel, he found, "it was more serious than I could have imagined at a hotel with curtains watching TV and eating three separate meals delivered on time every day.
”没有一家饭店开门，路上的行人十个手指能数完，他仿佛在荒野穿行。
No restaurant opened, and passers-by could count with ten fingers, and he seemed to be traversing the moor.
当天夜里，灰兔坐在公园长椅上休息。
That night, the rabbit sat on the park bench to rest.
巡逻员循着灯光过来查问身份，灰兔把42开头的身份证和健康证明一起掏出来，“我是湖北人，已经隔离十四天了。
The patrolman followed the lights to find out who he was, and the Greyhare pulled out his 42-piece ID card together with his health certificate.
”巡逻员退了两步，转身离开了。
The patrol stepped back two steps and turned away.
前方的道路关卡拦着不让过，健康证明起不到任何作用。
The road ahead is blocked, and the health certificate serves no purpose.
厦门的朋友给他发信息，实在不行就折返吧，家里还有地方，可以让他借宿。
Xiamen's friends sent him a message, really can not turn back, there is room at home, can let him stay.
他只能往回骑。
He could only ride back.
回去的路上有座桥，尽头设置了关卡，执勤人员看了眼灰兔的身份证，说你过不去的。
On the way back there was a bridge with a checkpoint at the end, and the officer looked at the Grey Hare's ID and said you couldn't get through.
天空飘了阵细雨。
The sky was drizzling with rain.
他推着自行车，想从桥的另一个方向下去，结果那边突然也出现了一队检查人员，也不让他过去。
He pushed his bicycle and tried to get down from the other side of the bridge when suddenly a group of inspectors showed up and refused to let him through.
桥的两边属于不同的行政区。
The two sides of the bridge belong to different administrative divisions.
灰兔被困在桥上，干等了五个小时，打了四次报警电话，天彻底暗下来，才得以下桥，摸黑骑到朋友家。
The grey hare was stranded on the bridge and waited for five hours. He called the police four times. It was quite dark before he could get down to the bridge and ride to his friend's house.
结果朋友家的小区也被拦上，灰兔只能在对面的空地搭帐篷。
As a result, the neighborhood of friends was blocked and the hares had to set up tents in the open space opposite.
第二天，帐篷也不允许搭了，街道办的工作人员围着他，不知道该怎么处理这个棘手的湖北人。
The next day, the tent is also not allowed to set up, street office staff around him, do not know how to deal with this thorny Hubei people.
最后是街道办的一位大姐顶着压力，让灰兔暂时住进了他们的办公室，“都是同胞，不能让你流落成这样。
Finally, a big sister in the street office under pressure, let the gray rabbit temporarily live in their office, "are compatriots, can not let you end up like this.
”2月14日下午两点多，灰兔从街道办出来，在街上游荡，他也不知道去什么地方，晚上在哪里落脚。
On February 14 ， more than two o'clock in the afternoon ， the Greyhare came out of the street and wandered about the streets ． He did not know where to go ， nor where to stay at night ．
这时，之前隔离酒店的负责人老郭打来电话：我们接到有关你的调查电话了，你现在肯定没有地方去，那就回来吧。
At this point, the person in charge of the isolated hotel, Lao Guo, called: We've got a call about you. You must have nowhere to go now, so come back.
隔离酒店的窗外 受访者供图轻飘飘的忧虑又开始下雨了，灰兔湿淋淋地骑回酒店，在这个隔离了14天的地方住下。
Isolating the Hotel Window The participants' fluttering anxieties began to rain again as the Greyhare dripped back to the hotel and stayed in the 14-day seclusion.
没有别的事可忙，灰兔成了一名志愿者。
With nothing else to do, Grey Rabbit became a volunteer.
这是一处远离疫情中心的医学观察点，志愿者可做的工作也不多。
It is a medical observation point far from the epizootic center, and there is not much volunteer work to do.
每天，灰兔举着额温枪给出入人员测量体温；把隔离餐送到酒店入口，再由专业工作人员穿着防护服送到各个隔离房间的门口；偶尔值值夜班。
Every day, the grey rabbit carries a warm gun to take the temperature of the person entering or leaving the house; the isolated meal is sent to the entrance of the hotel and then transported by professional staff in protective clothing to the gates of the respective isolation rooms; and occasionally, night work is performed.
那辆爆胎无数次的橙色自行车孤零零地停在酒店小小的停车场上，他偶尔去看看，擦一擦灰。
The orange bicycle, which had exploded countless times, stood alone in the hotel's tiny parking lot, occasionally visiting it and wiping it with dust.
酒店走廊，每天的隔离餐会放在房间门口摆放的红凳子上。
In the hallway of the hotel, the daily isolation meals are placed on red stools at the door of the room.
受访者供图灰兔每天都会看新闻，和湖北的朋友聊天，谁家小区能买到菜了，谁去做义工了，还有上学时发生的趣事，偶尔聊到一些死亡的消息，不会长谈，大家默契地地转移话题。
Each day, the interviewee will read the news, chat with friends in Hubei, who can buy food in the community, who will do the volunteer work, and the funny things happened in school, occasionally talk about some death, not long talk, everyone tacit transfer the topic.
武汉是他待了四年的地方，他最熟悉的是以学校为中心，以五公里为半径画出的那个小圈子。
Wuhan is the place where he stayed for four years, what he is most familiar with is the school-centered circle with a radius of five kilometers.
一年四季，他会和同学变着法儿设计散步路线，按照季节把学校周边最好的景色囊括进去，“我每天看到的武汉，都是最美的。
Throughout the year, he and his classmates will try to design a walk, according to the season to cover the best scenery around the school, "I see every day Wuhan, the most beautiful.
”他一直没能从这场冲击中反应过来，“一个好端端的城市，突然'封城'了，然后城市里的很多人死去。
He never recovered from the shock. "A good city, suddenly & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; and then many people in the city died.
”灰兔的老家荆门，确诊人数在湖北排第6位。
The number of people diagnosed in Jingmen, the home of Grey Rabbit, was sixth in Hubei province.
2月的一天，灰兔的母亲给他打电话，怀疑自己感染了新冠肺炎，两个人对着电话大哭。
One day in February, Grey Rabbit's mother telephoned him, suspected of contracting pneumonia, and the two of them cried over the phone.
“那一刻就是想赶紧回家。
"That was the moment to get home.
”所幸是虚惊一场。
Fortunately, it was a false alarm.
灰兔的姨妈、表姐都是医务人员，家族群里每隔几天报一次平安。
Grey rabbit's aunt, cousin are medical personnel, the family every few days reported peace.
表姐会在轮岗休息时间发一次朋友圈，那是告诉所有关心她的人，情况尚好。
My cousin will send out a circle of friends during her shift, which is to tell everyone who cares about her that things are fine.
灰兔发现，过去300多天思考的东西，那些个人的生活与意义，和疫情相比，都是轻飘飘的。
Grey Rabbit found that the past 300 days of thinking about things, those personal lives and significance, compared to the epidemic, are light.
他的声音低了下去，“太沉重了，沉重到了，稍微去想一想，都觉得没办法去思考。
His voice dropped. "It's too heavy, it's too heavy, it's too heavy to think about," he said.
”接下来，他沉默了。
"Then he was silent.
他只能去记录身边发生的事情。
He could only record what was going on around him.
前几天，有人给老郭送了锦旗。
A few days ago, someone gave old Guo the brocade flag.
那是隔离在酒店的一家五口，老母亲有胃溃疡，老郭专门安排厨房，给她做饺子、面条，每天送牛奶。
It is isolated in the hotel five people, the old mother has stomach ulcer, old Guo arranges the kitchen specially, makes dumplings, noodles for her, delivers the milk every day.
有个湖北的小孩，刚来时穿着厚厚的冬装，厦门热起来，闷出了一身痱子，老郭就把自己孩子的衣服洗好烘干送过去。
There is a child in Hubei, just came wearing thick winter clothes, Xiamen hot up, sulking out a body prickly heat, Lao Guo washed his children's clothes and sent them to dry.
不识字的工人不知道怎么开健康证明，老郭一步步帮忙办好。
Illiterate workers do not know how to write health certificates, Lao Guo step by step to help do a good job.
灰兔在日记里写道，“我只认识这一个老郭，可不只是一个老郭，更多的事情发生在这之外，更多的老郭值守在一线，再到了我这里，能看见的只是这些日子里，永远无事发生。
'I only know this old Guo, not just an old Guo, more things happen outside of this, more old Guo values in the front line, and when I get here, only these days, nothing will happen.
”沿路遇过的人们大都安然在家。
Most of the people encountered along the road were at home in peace.
前几天，湖州老伯给灰兔发浙江、五台山的照片，讨论路上种种。
A few days ago, Huzhou old uncle to gray rabbit hair Zhejiang, Wutai Mountain photos, discussed a variety of ways.
南昌大爷回家后一边做社区志愿者，一边抽空办好了港澳通行证，等着疫情结束。
When Uncle Nanchang came home as a community volunteer, he made a pass while waiting for the end of the epidemic.
酒店里解除隔离的人越来越多，从2月17日开始，厦门已经连续30天没有新增确诊病例。
The hotel has seen an increase in the number of people unquarantined, and since February 17, Xiamen has had no new confirmed cases for 30 days.
灰兔的工作越发清闲，每天的任务只剩送一顿午餐。
The grey hare's work was more and more leisurely, and there was only one lunch left for every day's work.
按照原计划，他的环中国旅行应该已经结束了。
According to the original plan, his tour around China should have ended.
他本来计划再花一年时间环世界旅行，看看更多截然不同的人生和风景，那是他在路上就想好的。
He had planned to spend another year touring the world and seeing more and more different lives and landscapes, which he had thought of on his way.
但他想家了。
But he's homesick.
等疫情结束，这个流浪了395天的年轻人想先回家。
When the outbreak was over, the young man, who had been wandering for 395 days, wanted to go home first.
后台回复"读者群",加入更多讨论。
Back-office reply & quot; & quot; & quot; joined in more discussion.
小昼。
Daylight.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
骑行1万5千公里寻找人生的答案，直到遇见疫情。
Ride 15, 000 kilometers to find the answer to your life, until you run into an epidemic.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "极昼工作室";。
Var nickname = & quot; daytime studio & quot;;
var msg_title = "骑行1万5千公里寻找人生的答案，直到遇见疫情";。
var msg _ title = & quot; rode 15, 000 kilometers to find answers to life, up to & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "苦寻答案的问题消解了，或许问题本身就是不存在的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; perhaps the problem itself does not exist.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="极昼工作室";。
var title = & quot; day studio & quot;;
