疫情之后，医患关系会变好吗？。
After the epidemic, will the doctor-patient relationship become better?
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
丁香园                      。
Cloves Garden.
丁香园。
Cloves Garden.
千万医务工作者的网上家园。
tens of millions of medical workers online homes.
我们深知医疗的痛苦与快乐，在丁香园里，您可以了解最新资讯、阅读深度报道，并与同行进行交流。
We are well aware of the pain and joy of medical care. In the clove garden, you can learn the latest news, read in-depth reports and communicate with your peers.
。
.
本文作者：方可随着各家方舱医院关闭，各省新增患者陆续归零，各地支援湖北地区医疗队开始返程，各省市医院逐步恢复普通门诊……国内新冠防疫工作进入了新的阶段。
With the closure of the various cabins hospitals, the arrival of new patients in the provinces, support for the return of the Hubei medical team and the gradual resumption of general outpatient clinics by the provincial and municipal hospitals have entered a new phase.
方舱医院中和谐的医患关系能否复制？疫情之后，医患关系又会怎样发展？疫情时期的全民一心、团结支持，是否能帮助医患关系变得更好？方舱医院里的医生和患者一起跳舞（图源：央视新闻）舆论宣传并不能代表患者就诊时的真实医疗体验，要讨论这个问题，我们需要先知道，此前影响医患关系的主要因素有哪些。
Can a harmonious doctor-patient relationship be replicated in a square-cabin hospital? How can a doctor-patient relationship develop after the outbreak? Can the public-patient relationship be helped to improve the relationship between doctor and patient in an epidemic situation?
根据《2003～2012 年全国医院场所暴力伤医情况调查研究》[1]中基于 459 例来自中国裁判文书网的暴力伤医案件分析显示，引发严重暴力伤医事件主要原因来自患者预期医疗质量与他们实际获得诊疗体验之间的差距，而导致这些差距的因素包括：等待时间、沟通、医疗质量、经济花费、治疗结果、死亡预后等。
An analysis of 459 cases of violent injuries at hospitals across the country from 2003 to 2012, based on a network of 459 Chinese court reporters, showed that the main causes of severe violent injuries were the gap between patients' expectations of medical care, quality of care, financial costs, treatment outcomes, and death outcomes.
引发严重暴力伤医事件主要原因分析（图源：参考文献 1）因此，要讨论医患关系是否会变好，即要分析这些决定因素是否得到缓解。
Analysis of the main causes of severe violent injuries (Source: Ref. 1) Therefore, it is necessary to discuss whether the doctor-patient relationship will improve, that is, whether these determinants have been mitigated.
经济冲击：人群医疗可支配收入降低在这场席卷全球的瘟疫中，许多国家都难免遭受严重的经济损失。
Economic Shocks: Decreasing Disposable Medical Income In this global epidemic, many countries are not immune to severe economic losses.
3 月 19 日，联合国秘书长古特雷斯指出，受新冠肺炎疫情冲击，全球经济「几乎肯定」会发生衰退，并「有可能达到创纪录的规模」。
On March 19, United Nations Secretary-General Carlos Guterres said the global economy was "almost certain" to decline as a result of the Crowne Pneumonia epidemic and that it was "likely to reach record proportions."
根据公开数据，国内 1～2 月工业生产、服务业生产指标均同比下降大于 10%，出口下降 15.9%，调查失业率上升（6.2%）。
According to open data, the index of industrial production and service industry in China fell by more than 10 percent year on year, exports by 15.9 percent, and the unemployment rate increased (6.2 percent).
经济下滑与失业增加都会影响全社会的衣食住行，虽然传染病的大规模流行和宣传教育会提高人们在健康和医疗上花费的意愿，但由于个人总体可支配收入下降，人们用于医疗保健、营养和个人卫生方面的开支可能减少，对医疗费用方面的敏感性也相应上升。
While large-scale epidemics of infectious diseases and awareness-raising campaigns can increase people's willingness to spend on health and medical care, spending on health care, nutrition and hygiene may be reduced and sensitivity to health-care costs may rise as a result of a decline in the overall disposable income of individuals.
人们对医疗水平的期待往往和自身对医疗科学知识储备程度相关。
People's expectations of medical standards are often related to their own reserve of medical scientific knowledge.
《2003～2012 年全国医院场所暴力伤医情况调查研究》显示，以往的伤医案件中，「恶性伤医者大多受教育程度低，家庭多比较贫困，无业、农民、下岗及打工者占 7 成以上……并存在疾病无法治愈、支付医疗费困难等现象。
According to the Survey on Medical Injuries and Injuries in Hospitals from 2003 to 2012, in previous medical and injury cases, "the majority of patients with malignant injuries were poorly educated, families were more likely to be poor, and unemployment, peasants, laid-off workers and workers accounted for over 70 percent..."
」79.1％ 嫌疑人未完成高中毕业，45.6% 为农民，26.2% 为无业人员（图源：参考文献 1）低收入群体由于处于经济和社会资源的劣势地位，受到疫情冲击后收入和就业问题的远期影响可能更大，最后作用于医疗，可能造成医疗纠纷和暴力事件风险增加。
"79.1% of suspects have not completed high school, 45.6% are farmers and 26.2% are unemployed (Source: Ref. 1). Low-income groups are likely to be more exposed to the long-term effects of post-epidemic income and employment problems due to their disadvantaged position in economic and social resources, resulting in an increased risk of medical disputes and violence.
除个人经济能力受到冲击外，新冠肺炎的治疗过程本身也会消耗一定的医保经费，可用于其他疾病的医保经费比例就可能降低。
In addition to the personal economic impact, the treatment process itself will consume a certain amount of health care costs, the proportion of health care funds available for other diseases may be reduced.
根据近期发表的《深圳市 105 例新型冠状病毒肺炎患者住院费用及结构分析》一文，针对 105 名新冠肺炎患者的调查显示，平均每名新冠患者住院费用为 12288.53 元。
According to the recently published article "Analysis of hospitalization costs and structures of 105 patients with coronavirus pneumonia in Shenzhen," the average hospitalization cost per newly-crowned patient was 12288.53 yuan, according to a survey of 105 patients with coronavirus pneumonia.
根据丁香园・丁香医生疫情地图数据，截至 3 月 23 日 14 时，全国累计确诊新冠肺炎患者 81649 例，估算累计住院费用可能超过 10亿元。
According to the data of the Doctor Lilac Garden clove epidemic map, as of 14: 00 on March 23, a total of 81,649 cases of New Crown Pneumonia have been diagnosed nationwide.
随着各大医院开始恢复日常诊疗，大量疫情期间未就医的其他疾病的患者就医需求逐渐释放，在医保总额没有显著增加的情况下，一旦费用控制不到位，患者后半年报销比例下降或者报销困难的情况就可能发生。
With the resumption of routine treatment in major hospitals, the need for medical treatment for a large number of patients with other diseases not treated during the epidemic is gradually released, and in the absence of a significant increase in the total amount of health care, once cost control is not in place, a reduction in reimbursement rates or reimbursement difficulties in the latter half of the year may occur.
由于支付医疗费用导致可支配收入低于贫困线的人群比例（WHO 2019 年全球卫生报告）同时，由于医疗机构可能存在医护人员伤病、控制就诊人数等原因，一定时间内医疗机构可以提供的医疗资源总量反而可能减少——有限的预算，更多的花销，矛盾也许在所难免。
Given that paying for health care costs results in the proportion of people with disposable income below the poverty line (WHO 2019 Global Health Report), the total amount of health-care resources that a health-care facility can provide for a given period of time may be reduced - with limited budgets, more spending, and perhaps inevitable, owing to health-care providers "diseases and injuries, and limiting the number of visits.
诊疗延迟：影响就诊环境、治疗效果在疫情期间，由于大量人力、床位、设备等资源均被调用于传染病防控，加上预防院内交叉感染，各级医疗卫生机构不得不限制在治疗其他疾病方面的资源投入，如暂停或减少非急诊手术。
Delay in diagnosis and treatment: During the epidemic period, when a large number of personnel, beds, equipment and other resources are allocated to infectious disease prevention and control, combined with the prevention of cross-infection in hospitals, health-care institutions at all levels have to limit their resources to treating other diseases, such as suspending or reducing the number of non-emergency operations.
虽然在疫情期间，交通事故、创伤、醉酒等病因的患者可能减少，但大量非传染病患者的医疗需求暂时无法满足，存在药物和治疗中断的问题。
While the number of cases of traffic accidents, injuries, intoxication and other causes may decrease during the epidemic, the medical needs of a large number of patients with non-communicable diseases are temporarily unmet and there are problems with drugs and interruptions in treatment.
一些病情上建议限期治疗或及早治疗的疾病，如肿瘤、心脑血管病，以及一些建议持续治疗患者，例如慢性肾病、精神障碍的患者都受到影响。
Some diseases that are recommended for limited duration treatment or early treatment, such as neoplasms, cardiovascular diseases, as well as some patients who are recommended for continuous treatment, such as chronic kidney disease, mental disorders, have been affected.
诊疗活动恢复后，部分科室患者可能出现就诊高峰。
After the recovery of diagnosis and treatment activities, some department patients may appear peak clinic.
根据近期数据，目前国内医疗资源供给已经恢复到相当于去年同期 60% 的水平。
According to recent data, domestic medical resources have now returned to the equivalent of 60% of the same period last year.
仍然有三分之一以上没有恢复。
More than one third have yet to recover.
在疫情出现前，我国医疗结构床位和号源紧张的供求矛盾已经存在。
Before the outbreak, the supply and demand of the hospital bed and the number source in our country were already tense.
目前，随着各地复诊高峰出现，医疗资源供给反而较前不足，可能出现患者排队时间等候时间延长、医疗秩序受到影响、就诊环境变差情况，导致医疗纠纷发生几率增加。
At present, the availability of medical resources is inadequate as a result of the peak number of repeat visits, which may result in longer waiting times for patients, an impact on medical order and a deteriorating medical environment, leading to an increase in the incidence of medical disputes.
此外，延迟或中断诊疗会引起部分疾病患者的治疗成本增大，但预后和治疗效果反而可能会变差。
In addition, delayed or interrupted treatment can increase the cost of treatment for some patients, but the prognosis and therapeutic effects may be worse.
治疗效果不佳本身就是医疗纠纷的重要诱因之一，部分患者对医疗过程中的并发症、不良事件是难以容忍或接受的，这个对医生的诊疗水平和沟通技巧都提出了更高的要求。
Poor curative effect is one of the important causes of medical dissension. Some patients are difficult to tolerate or accept the complications and adverse events in medical treatment.
舆论宣传无法完全消除暴力即便是在疫情最为严重的湖北，据不完全统计，自疫情爆发至今，公开报道的呵斥、殴打医护人员的案例已有三起。
Even in Hubei, where the epidemic is most severe, according to incomplete statistics, there have been three cases of publicly reported reprimands and beatings of medical personnel since the outbreak.
1 月 19 日 18 时许，许某（女，55 岁，荆门市东宝区人）因交通事故身体多处受伤后被送至荆门市第一人民医院南院胸心外科抢救。
January 19 around 18: 00, Xu (female, 55 years old, Jingmen City Dongbao District) because of multiple injuries caused by traffic accidents was sent to Jingmen City First People's Hospital South Hospital thoracic and cardiac surgery rescue.
1 月 20 日零时 30 分许，许某因抢救无效身亡。
January 20 0: 30, Xu died because of the failure of rescue.
因质疑医生治疗过程,两名家属对值班医生柳某进行殴打。
Two family members beat Liu Mou, the doctor on duty, for questioning the medical treatment process.
武汉市硚口区公安分局官方微博发布通报，2020 年 1 月 30 日，硚口区公安分局接到市四医院（西区）报警称：「医院 12 楼有病人家属打医院护士」。
On January 30, 2020, Zhengkou District Public Security Bureau received a warning from the Municipal Fourth Hospital (Western District) saying, "There is a hospital nurse on the 12th floor of the hospital."
经查，打人者柯某的岳父（68 岁）因病毒性肺炎于当日在医院去世，柯某情绪激动，抓扯并殴打医生头部和颈部，医生的口罩、防护服也被扯坏。
After investigation, the batterer's father-in-law (68 years old) died in hospital on the same day due to viral pneumonia, Komou emotional, grabbed and beat the doctor on the head and neck, the doctor's mask, protective clothing was also damaged.
据新华社 2 月 21 日报道，一则武汉市第七医院患者无端训斥医护人员的视频在网络传播。
A video of a Wuhan seventh hospital patient scolding medical staff for no apparent reason was broadcast on the Internet, Xinhua reported.
湖北省市场监督管理局在核实该患者为该局后勤服务中心筹备组副组长朱保华后，将其停职检查。
The Hubei Provincial Market Supervision Administration suspended the patient after verifying that he was the vice-chairman of the preparatory group for the Bureau's logistics service center.
此外，内蒙古鄂尔多斯市公安局东胜区分局 22 日通报称，2020 年 3 月 19 日东胜区发生的捅伤医生刑事案件，犯罪嫌疑人王某某于当日 20 时被刑事拘留，于 22 日 11 时提请检察机关批准逮捕。
In addition, Inner Mongolia Ordos City Public Security Bureau Dongsheng District Branch 22 reported that March 19, 2020 in Dongsheng District, stabbing doctors, suspects Wang was detained at 20: 00 on the same day criminal detention, 22 11: 00 to request the procuratorate to approve the arrest.
图源：平安东胜显然，在疫情期间短时间的高强度的卫生防疫和宣传工作，在庞大的人口基数和纷繁复杂的舆论环境下，舆论宣传并不足以消除社会背景下部分人群倾向于诉诸暴力的土壤。
Source: Ping An Dongsheng obviously, during the short period of the epidemic, high-intensity anti-epidemic and publicity work, in a large population base and complex public opinion environment, public opinion propaganda is not enough to eliminate the social background of some people inclined to resort to violence.
此外，疫情防控期间密集的正面宣传提高了人们对医疗机构服务态度的期望值，医护人员「挺身而出、无私奉献、不畏艰险」的「天使化」形象为更多人所知。
In addition, intense positive publicity during the period of epidemic prevention and control has raised expectations about the service attitude of medical institutions, and the "angelic" image of health-care workers as "stand-up, selfless and fearless" has become more widely known.
但在真实的医疗情境下，在巨大的工作量面前，医务人员必须把有限的资源，分摊到每个患者身上，这会稀释每个患者享有的医疗服务质量和人文关怀的水平。
But in a real medical situation, in the face of a huge workload, the medical staff has to spread limited resources to each patient, which dilutes the quality of the medical services and the level of humane care enjoyed by each patient.
这样一来，实际的就诊体验很可能难以满足部分患者的期望，过高的心理预期带来的落差对医患关系本身是不利的。
As a result, the actual clinical experience is likely to be difficult to meet the expectations of some patients, too high psychological expectations brought about by the gap is not conducive to the doctor-patient relationship itself.
医疗系统超负荷运转，医务人员急需关注高强度的防疫工作可能对医务人员造成明显压力，影响医护人员的身心健康，损害医疗安全，造成不良事件发生率的上升。
The medical system is overstretched and medical personnel are in urgent need of attention. Intensive epidemic prevention may cause obvious stress on medical staff, affect the physical and mental health of medical staff, impair medical safety and cause an increase in the incidence of adverse events.
[2]医务人员倦怠与不良医疗事件发生率呈正相关（参考文献 2）经济方面，由于医院存在一定的垫付压力，加之医院的其他病种诊疗活动的减少，短期内医院工作人员的实际绩效工资可能降低，一线工作人员总体的薪酬待遇未必能达到既往同等水平。
Medical burnout is positively correlated with the incidence of adverse medical incidents (Ref. 2) Economically, actual performance pay for hospital staff may decline in the short term and front-line workers may not be paid at the same level as before, owing to certain hospital upfront pressures and a reduction in other types of hospital activity.
丁香园调查数据显示，疫情期间，超八成医务人员收入降低。
Cloves Garden survey data show that the epidemic period, more than 80 per cent of medical staff income decreased.
其中一半以上（56.3%）绩效、奖金受到影响，基本工资没有影响，29.4% 基本工资、绩效、奖金均受到影响，只有少数人（7.6%）的收入未受影响。
More than half of them (56.3 per cent) were affected in terms of performance, bonuses, basic pay, 29.4 per cent of basic wages, performance, bonuses, and only a few (7.6 per cent) of them were not affected.
在防疫补助发放方面，丁香园调查数据显示，截至 3 月 11 日，仅 12% 的医务人员表示已经收到补助，88% 的人暂未收到。
As of March 11, only 12% of medical staff said they had received the subsidy, while 88% had not received it, according to data from the Clove Garden Survey.
其中，湖北省内医务人员收到补助的比例较高，为 42%，但湖北省外仅有 6% 的医务人员表示收到了补助。
A higher proportion of medical workers in Hubei province received subsidies, 42 percent, but only 6 percent of those outside Hubei province said they received subsidies.
此外，一些医务人员因公殉职，永远离开了我们，还有许多人承受了巨大的身心压力，付出了巨大的牺牲。
In addition, some medical personnel have died in the line of duty, leaving us forever, and many others have endured tremendous physical and psychological pressure and sacrifice.
在 3 月 6 日国务院新闻办发布会上，中央指导组成员、国务院副秘书长丁向阳表示，疫情早期，湖北省有超过 3000 名医务人员感染。
During a press conference on March 6, Ding Xiangyang, a member of the Central Steering Committee and Deputy Secretary-General of the State Council, said more than 3,000 medical personnel were infected in Hubei province in the early days of the epidemic.
3 月 21 日，《柳叶刀》发表最新社论，呼吁保护 COVID-19 疫情中的医务人员：「在未来很长一段时间里，全球医疗卫生系统可能会保持超负荷运转。
On March 21, The Lancet published a recent editorial calling for the protection of medical staff in the COVID-19 epidemic: "The global health system is likely to remain overstretched for a long time to come."
但医务人员不是呼吸机或病房，不可能紧急生产或以 100% 的入住率长期运行。
However, medical staff are not breathing machines or wards and cannot produce emergency products or operate at an occupancy rate of 100 per cent for long periods.
」《柳叶刀》发表社论 COVID-19：保护医疗卫生工作者文章指出，「至关重要的是，政府不能简单地将医务人员视为调配人员，而要记住他们是有血有肉的生命个体。
An editorial in The Lancet, COVID-19: Protecting Health Workers, said: "It is essential that the government does not simply regard medical personnel as deployment agents, but remember that they are flesh and blood.
在全球应对 COVID-19 疫情中，必须确保医务人员的安全。
In the global response to the COVID-19 epidemic, the safety of medical personnel must be ensured.
提供足够的个人防护装备只是第一步，同时必须考虑其他切实可行的措施，包括取消非必要的活动，确保资源优先用来应对疫情；保证所有医务人员获得足够的食物、充足的休息，来自家人的理解，以及足够的心理支持。
The provision of adequate personal protective equipment is only the first step, and other practical measures must be considered, including the elimination of non-essential activities, ensuring that resources are prioritized for the response to the outbreak, ensuring that all medical personnel receive adequate food, adequate rest, understanding from their families and adequate psychological support.
目前，医务人员是每个国家最宝贵的资源。
At present, medical personnel are every country's most valuable resource.
」这次疫情的代价是异常沉重的，社会各界都付出了许多，虽然疫情会使社会各界重视健康，关注医疗卫生事业，但它对医疗行业本身依然是个不小的打击。
"The cost of the epidemic is enormous, and many people from all walks of life have paid dearly. Although the epidemic will make people pay attention to their health and health care, it is still a great blow to the medical profession itself.
综合疫情防控全过程，医务人员健康状况、收入和满意度均可能出现下降，而这些都可能增加职业倦怠风险，影响医务人员工作积极性。
The health condition, income and satisfaction of medical staff may decrease in the whole process of integrated epidemic prevention and control, which may increase the risk of occupational burnout and affect the motivation of medical staff.
无论是居民的经济条件、健康水平变化，还是医护人员身心压力与满意度，都可能对后续医疗质量与秩序带来负面效应。
Whether the residents' economic conditions, health level changes, or the physical and psychological pressure and satisfaction of medical personnel, may bring negative effects on the quality and order of medical follow-up.
疫情期间仍屡有发生的暴力事件已经告诉我们，舆论的力量对于解决上述一系列问题的能力是有限的，医疗卫生背后的经济问题和资源问题很难仅靠宣传教育去解决。
The repeated outbreaks of violence during the epidemic have shown us that the power of public opinion is limited in its ability to address the range of problems described above, and that the economic problems and resource problems behind health care are difficult to resolve through education and education alone.
法律是人们行为的底线，不是上限。
Law is the bottom line of human behavior, not the upper limit.
我们也不可能仅靠立法或者事后惩戒去改变医院暴力背后的土壤。
Nor can we simply legislate or punish ex post to change the soil behind hospital violence.
这次席卷全球的疫情给我国的医疗系统带来的潜在影响和作用机制，仍需要社会各界更加深入的研究，并在各个环节采取全方位的干预措施。
The potential impact and mechanism of this global epidemic on China's medical system still needs to be studied more deeply by all sectors of society, and all-round intervention measures should be taken in all aspects.
不论是加强分级诊疗、合理利用现有的医疗资源，还是完善社会保障、保护低收入人员的权益、促进经济增长和就业，这些对未来建设和谐的医患关系都有着非常重要的价值。
It is of great value to build a harmonious doctor-patient relationship in the future, whether it is to strengthen grading treatment, make rational use of existing medical resources, improve social security, protect the rights and interests of low-income people, and promote economic growth and employment.
疫情远未结束，防控也只是进入了一个新阶段。
The epidemic is far from over, and prevention and control have only entered a new phase.
现实告诉我们，挑战依然严峻，我们要做的还有很多。
Reality tells us that the challenges remain daunting and that much remains to be done.
（责任编辑：gyouza）题图来源：图虫创意参考文献：1.Cai R,Tang J,Deng C, et al. Violence against health care workers in China, 2013–2016: evidence from the national judgment documents.Hum Resour Health. 2019 Dec 26;17(1):1032.Maria Panagioti,Keith Geraghty,Judith Johnson,et al.Association Between Physician Burnout and Patient Safety, Professionalism, and Patient SatisfactionA Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.JAMA Intern Med. 2018;178(10):1317-1331.3.COVID-19: protecting health-care workers. The Lancet VOLUME 395, ISSUE 10228, P922, MARCH 21, 2020。
Source: Toobe Creative Reference: 1. Cai R, Tang J, Deng C, et al. Violence against health care workers in China, 2013-2016: Evidence from the national justice documents. Hum Resour Health. 2019 Dec 26; 17 (1): 1032. Maria Panagioti, Keith Geraghty, Judith Johnson, et al. Association Between Physician Burnout, P922, MARCH 21, 2020.
丁香园 DXY。
DXY, Lilac Garden.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
更懂中国医生。
Know more about Chinese doctors.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情之后，医患关系会变好吗？。
After the epidemic, will the doctor-patient relationship become better?
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "丁香园";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情之后，医患关系会变好吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Has the doctor-patient relationship improved since the outbreak?;
var msg_desc = "医疗系统超负荷运转，医务人员急需关注";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="丁香园";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
