我们一人抱一下，也可以抱住武汉的。
We can hold each other, we can also embrace Wuhan.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月19日中午，武汉市百步亭社区，一位在午休的“下沉”干部。
At noon on February 19, a "sinking" cadre took a lunch break in the Bumbuting community of Wuhan.
中青报·中青网记者 赵迪/摄作者 | 中青报·中青网记者 马宇平编辑 | 从玉华1月23日，武汉宣布封城后3小时，郝南在社交媒体上发布了nCoV Relief（后改名“NCP生命支援”）志愿者招募书，当天有近2000人报名。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing News, journalist Zhao Di / photo writer & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
黄快快成了第一批志愿者，她曾在武汉读大学。
Huang Qian became one of the first volunteers. She studied in Wuhan University.
她想到的是平日搭乘的武汉公交车快到“飞”起，人们“过早”，端着一碗热干面边走边吃。
She thought of the usual Wuhan bus soon "fly", people "early", carrying a bowl of hot dry noodles while eating.
“武汉人的精气神儿特别足，这一次感觉武汉突然虚弱了。
"Wuhan people's spirit of special feet, this time feel Wuhan suddenly weak.
”她所在的组里，超过一半是大学生。
More than half of her group were college students.
打出第一个电话时，有志愿者紧张得连自我介绍都没说利索。
On the first call, some volunteers were so nervous that they didn't even say hello to themselves.
手机通话记录显示，2月5日这天，一名志愿者打了100多个电话联系床位，都没有得到结果，后来她看到手机就反胃。
On Feb. 5, a volunteer made more than 100 phone calls with no result, and later she turned her stomach when she saw the phone, according to phone calls.
最初，她们和大部分患者家属一样，对入院流程办理并不清楚，“手忙脚乱，谁的电话都打”。
Initially, they, like most of the patients' families, were unaware of the admission process, "in a hurry, anyone's phone calls."
社区、街道、医院、区防疫指挥部、市长热线、地方卫健委，她们把电话号码按了个遍。
Communities, streets, hospitals, district epidemic prevention headquarters, the mayor's hotline, local health committee, they pressed the phone number.
赵粒接手的第一位求助者是个姑娘，她迫切需要为外公外婆找两张床位。
The first suitor Zhao took over was a girl who desperately needed two beds for her grandparents.
外公核酸检测为阳性，外婆也出现了相应的症状，但是核酸检测为阴性。
Grandfather nucleic acid test positive, grandmother also appeared corresponding symptoms, but nucleic acid testing negative.
这是前期典型的求助者画像：老年人、确诊或核酸为阴性的危重症、没有床位。
This is a classic prequel portrayal of a suitor: elderly, critically ill or nucleic acid-negative, bed-free.
有人分享经验，要先联系到有床位的医院，再找社区开转诊单。
Some people share their experiences by contacting a hospital with beds and then seeking a referral form from the community.
她焦头烂额忙完第一步，却被社区通知“根本不知道转诊单是个什么样的东西”。
She was so preoccupied with her first step that she was told by the community that she had "no idea what a referral was."
在志愿者看来，“经验”不仅在武汉的不同行政区、甚至不同街道间都无法通行，并且会很快过时，因为“武汉的情况也是一天一个样”。
According to the volunteers, "experience" is not only impassable in different districts of Wuhan, but also in different streets, and it will quickly become obsolete because "Wuhan is a day by day.
志愿者群里共享的政策、医院床位和接收情况的信息一直在更新，并标明“某天某时”。
Information on policies, hospital beds and admissions shared among the volunteer groups has been updated and marked "one day at a time."
“我们的工作就是到处联系，我们可能在补一个信息的缺口。
"Our job is to connect everywhere, and we may be filling a gap in information.
”黄快快说，很多患者当时处于比较焦虑和慌乱的状态，既没有精力逐个医院地去找床位，也无暇梳理信息。
Many patients were in a state of anxiety and panic, with neither the energy to find beds one by one nor the time to comb information, Huang said.
有患者根本不知道入院流程。
Some patients simply do not know the admission process.
她们把媒体、其他志愿服务团体等公布的救助渠道一并发给患者，“都试试，不知道到底最后哪个能起到作用。
They hand out relief channels announced by the media, other voluntary associations, etc., to patients, "Try it all, not knowing which one will work.
”让志愿者刘布感到困难的是本身患有其他疾病的疑似或确诊患者，“定点医院只收治新冠肺炎患者，其他医院不收治新冠肺炎疑似或确诊的患者，所以就比较麻烦”。
What made it difficult for volunteers, Liu Bu, was a suspect or confirmed patient suffering from other ailments. "The designated hospital only admitted patients with Newcomial Pneumonia, and other hospitals did not treat patients with suspected or confirmed pneumonia, so it was more troublesome."
赵粒能感觉到患者家属也在一直催社区。
Zhao felt that his family was urging the community too.
电话接通，她刚报出患者名字，工作人员告诉她已经将情况上报。
The call was through. She had just given the patient's name, and the staff told her she had reported the situation.
她紧张地问了一句，患者在家里隔离，社区能提供什么防护呢？“什么都没有。
She asked nervously, What protection can a community provide when a patient is isolated at home? Nothing.
”电话那头的社区工作者说自己仅戴一个普通口罩，防疫物资只有口罩和84消毒液。
Community workers on the other end of the line said they were wearing only one ordinary mask and were receiving only face masks and 84 disinfectants.
没有防护服，有社区工作者穿着厨房的围裙站在了防疫一线。
Without protective clothing, community workers in kitchen aprons stood on the front lines of the epidemic.
社区工作人员谢飞和同事们的工作压力也大到了极点，每天填各种表上报给不同部门、照顾特殊群体就医、联系物业安排消毒杀菌，保证普通居民的生活物资与供应。
Community workers Xie Fei and colleagues work under extreme pressure, each day to fill out various forms to report to different departments, care for special groups for medical treatment, contact the property arrangements disinfection sterilization, to ensure the ordinary residents of the material and supplies.
四类人群没有完成“应收尽收”之前，居民指责他们不作为。
Residents accused the four groups of not doing their job before they had finished "collecting what was due."
“工作初期，因为大家都没有经验，确实像打乱战，都在努力，只是不知道怎样才更有效。
"At the beginning of the job, because everyone was inexperienced, it was like trying to break up the war, just not knowing how to be more effective.
”谢飞回忆道，“那时候的现实情况就是确诊的还没有收治，已经确诊的病人，上报两天了，还在家里。
"The reality at the time was that the confirmed cases had not been admitted," he recalled. "The patients had been reported for two days and were still at home.
我不知道该怎么办。
I don't know what to do.
”后来，他们上门给不愿去隔离的密切接触人员做工作，对方表示，自行去不去；酒店自带被子不去；只给矿泉水没有热水的不去，反正就是不去。
Later, when they came to work for close contacts who did not want to go in isolation, the other said they would go alone; the hotel brought its own quilts; those who did not have hot water would not go anyway.
“有时患者会把社区工作者放在他的敌对面，因为他那个时候需要一个情绪的支撑点，他下意识地认为，我没有被安排入院，是社区的问题，社区没有给我上报等。
"Sometimes the patient would put the community worker in front of his enemy because he needed emotional support at the time. He subconsciously assumed that I was not being hospitalized, that it was a community problem, that the community did not report to me, etc.
”黄快快说。
"said Huang quickly.
“有的时候确实会觉得好累，看不到头。
"" Sometimes I feel so tired I can't see my head.
为什么就没有床位？我那时候恨不得去造床了！”她担心很多人可能等不到床位，或者入院就危重症了。
Why was there no bed? I wanted to make a bed! "She worried that many people might not be able to wait for beds, or would be critically ill on admission.
“比如前一天求助的人今天过来跟我说，我已经住上院了，我就会觉得，他们在变好，就觉得挺开心的。
"If the person who asked for help the day before came to me today and told me I was in the Upper House, I would think they were feeling better and happier.
”刘布说。
"said Liu.
赵粒做志愿者第三天晚上，收到求助者信息：“我外婆快不行了。
On the third night, Zhao Ge volunteered and received a message from the caller: "My grandmother is dying.
”“我当时感觉整个人被那种巨大的愧疚感吞噬了，感觉好乱，怎么办，打120去急诊还是继续找床位住院？”赵粒捧着手机，给社区打电话，再给街道打。
"I felt a huge sense of guilt engulfing me, feeling confused, what to do, calling 120 to go to the emergency department or continuing to look for a bed in the hospital?" Zhao held her cell phone, called the community and called the street.
患者提出想住离家更近的武昌医院，她就给医院反复打，问能不能去住院，能不能有病床，不要只是急诊拉回来。
The patient offered to stay at Wuchang Hospital, which was closer to her home. She called the hospital repeatedly to see if she could be hospitalized, if she could have a bed, not just an emergency.
打完一圈以后，她给自己做一会儿心理建设，然后继续打电话催一遍。
After playing a lap, she gave herself a little psychological construction, and then continued to call a reminder.
凌晨3点，老人被医院收治。
At 3 a.m. the old man was admitted to the hospital.
她松了一口气，尽管不确定自己在推动事件的解决中到底发挥了多大的作用。
She breathed a sigh of relief, though she wasn't sure how much she had played in pushing the matter forward.
也有人没那么幸运。
Others are not so lucky.
有时找了几天都没有床位，求助者对一名志愿者说“想放弃了。
Sometimes after a few days without a bed, the caller told a volunteer, "I want to give up.
”她回复对方，我会继续想办法的。
"She replied," I'll keep trying.
然后再去搜集信息，打电话，并给他们汇报进展。
Then go to collect information, make phone calls, and report back to them on their progress.
刘布也遇到过，求助者的需求从两张床位变成一张——一位已经去世了。
Liu Bu also met, the demand for help from two beds into one - one has died.
当志愿者多日后，她有了种很复杂的心情，“你想发一个很轻松的朋友圈，但是你想到还有一群人就是那么惨，我就突然感觉这种快乐就很不应该”。
"You want to have a very relaxed circle of friends," she said. "But when you think of another group of people who are so miserable, I suddenly feel that this kind of happiness is not right."
督导每天对志愿者进行技术指导和情绪支持。
Supervise daily technical guidance and emotional support to volunteers.
“你要相信你的生活跟电话那头的生活，其实是两个生活，你是在听别人的故事，”陆小芸说，“督导一直让我们划清专业跟同理心的边界。
"You have to believe that your life and life on the other end of the phone are actually two lives. You are listening to other people's stories," Lu said.
”黄快快和志愿者们明显感受到变化是在方舱医院建成后，开始“应收尽收，应治尽治”，群里的求助信息少了很多。
Huang and the volunteers clearly felt that the change had occurred after the construction of the Fang Cao Hospital. "Receivable and curable," the information in the group was much less.
一名志愿者每天都关注与疫情相关的新闻，“像从谷堆里寻找一根救命的稻草”。
One volunteer followed the news about the outbreak on a daily basis, "like looking for a life-saving straw from a valley".
她意识到，白纸黑字的文件牵扯的是鲜活的生命，是无数家庭的希望。
She realized that a paper in black and white was a living document, the hope of countless families.
2月12日，湖北省卫健委首次公布新冠肺炎临床诊断病例具体数字。
February 12, Hubei Wei Jiancheng first announced the number of clinical diagnosis of new crown pneumonia.
根据《新冠肺炎诊疗方案（试行第5版）》，湖北省内可以以CT影像作为确诊依据时，她立即拨通了那些CT影像显示感染、“排队做核酸”求助者电话。
According to the New Crown Pneumonia Program (Trial Version 5), when CT images can be used as a basis for a diagnosis in Hubei province, she immediately dialed those CT images showing infection and "queuing up for nucleic acid" suitors.
形势慢慢变好。
The situation is getting better slowly.
2月下旬开始，志愿者也结束了24小时待命的状态，群里实行值班制度，每4小时进行一次轮班。
In late February, volunteers also ended their 24-hour standby, with shifts taking place every four hours in a group on a shift basis.
“应收尽收”之后，求助的患者多是非新冠肺炎的患者，他们可能需要透析、化疗或是因为其他疾病需要住院，也有新的生命即将来到这座城市。
"Receivable" patients are mostly non-New Crown Pneumonia patients who may need dialysis, chemotherapy or other illnesses requiring hospitalization, and new life is coming to the city.
也有人提出买药方面的需求。
There was also a demand for medicines.
这两天，出院的新冠肺炎患者开始担心去复查的事，比如万一没完全康复会不会再被隔离到医院治疗。
Over the past two days, people who have been discharged from hospital have become worried about going back to work, such as whether they will be hospitalized again if they do not fully recover.
赵粒习惯和对方聊日常生活，她帮助过的一位阿姨也给了她做志愿者的动力，有互相治愈的那种感觉。
Zhao was used to talking to each other about her daily life, and an aunt she helped gave her the motivation to volunteer and the feeling of healing.
“阿姨思考很多问题，比如新冠肺炎患者出院后再去检查应注意什么，如何做好检测前的隔离等”。
"Aunt think a lot of questions, such as the new crown pneumonia patients after discharge from the hospital to check what to pay attention to, how to do a good job of isolation before testing."
这也让她意识到，要像对待普通人一样对待她们，不要小心翼翼“怕把对方碰碎了”。
It also taught her to treat them as if they were ordinary people, and not to be "afraid of breaking each other up."
“成为志愿者之前，是愤怒又无力那种感觉。
"Before I became a volunteer, I felt angry and powerless.
”赵粒说，后来加入了以后就变成了很微观层面上的关注。
Zhao said she became very micro-level concerned when she joined the group.
“很多事情可能没有答案，但是还是要去做，后面就会发生一点变化。
"Lots of things may not be answered, but do them anyway, and a little bit later on.
”如今，一天比一天好了。
Now it was getting better day by day.
有阿姨表示，疫情结束之后，她要去广场上跳舞，舞伴都等她很久了。
Auntie said, after the epidemic, she will go to the square to dance, the partners have been waiting for her for a long time.
陆小芸说，自己之前对武汉的全部印象就是——“武汉是一座很热的城市”。
Lu said that his previous impression of Wuhan is "Wuhan is a very hot city."
这次她看到了这个城市痛得最深的地方。
This time she saw where the pain was deepest in the city.
“大家都很渺小，但是我们一人抱一下，也可以抱住武汉的。
"Everyone is very small, but we can embrace each other, can also embrace Wuhan.
”　　（应受访对象要求，黄快快、谢飞、刘布、赵粒、陆小芸均为化名）中国青年报·中国青年网出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
At the request of the interviewee, Huang Qian, Xie Fei, Liu Bu, Zhao Gu and Lu Xiaoyun are aliases.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我们一人抱一下，也可以抱住武汉的。
We can hold each other, we can also embrace Wuhan.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我们一人抱一下，也可以抱住武汉的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; we cuddled at & quot; or at & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉人的精气神儿特别足，这一次感觉武汉突然虚弱了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan, with its extraordinary charm, suddenly feels weak.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
