紧急堵截“境外输入”： 全国学北京，政策堵漏由松到严/* declared */。
Emergency blocking "foreign import": learning Beijing from the whole country, the policy leakage from loose to strict / * declared * /.
紧急堵截“境外输入”： 全国学北京，政策堵漏由松到严<br>。
Emergency blocking "foreign imports": China studied Beijing, and its policies and regulations include Ren Ren and Ren Rite; br & gt;
| title       = 紧急堵截“境外输入”： 全国学北京，政策堵漏由松到严。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
紧急堵截“境外输入”： 全国学北京，政策堵漏由松到严。
Emergency blocking of "foreign imports": learning Beijing, the policy of plugging from loose to strict.
卢宝宜。
Luo Baoyi.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲3月20日，在上海浦东国际机场，工作人员核实入境人员信息。
On March 20, at Shanghai Pudong International Airport, staff verified information about people entering the country.
（新华社记者 丁汀/图）全文共5171字，阅读大约需要12分钟。
The full text, 5,171 words, will take about 12 minutes to read.
各地防控“境外输入”的政策由松到严，逐个堵塞漏洞。
All over the "foreign import" policy from loose to strict, one by one plug loopholes.
北京作为第一个对所有境外入京人士，不分国籍、原则上进行集中隔离的做法，受到了网友们热烈欢迎。
Beijing as the first foreign visitors to Beijing, regardless of nationality, in principle, the practice of centralized segregation, was warmly welcomed by netizens.
“如果我是感染者，在广州又转机回了吉林，对于回吉林那个航班的人而言，是不是也有很大的风险？”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 卢宝宜南方周末实习生 刘鑫 吴超责任编辑 | 顾策2020年3月22日，国家卫健委官网显示，3月21日新增确诊病例46例，其中境外输入确诊病例45例，剩下一例为首例境外输入关联病例，也是唯一一例本土新增病例。
"If I was infected, in Guangzhou and back to Jilin, the flight back to Jilin, is not a great risk to that flight?" This article started in Southern Weekend reporter Liu Baoyi Southern Weekend Intern Liu Baoyi Southern Weekend, 45 of which were imported from abroad.
据广东省卫健委通报，这位54岁男性住在广州市越秀区东山街道。
The 54-year-old man lives in Dongshan Street, Yuexiu District, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, the Guangdong Health Commission reported.
经流行病学调查显示，其为土耳其输入确诊病例林某的密切接触者，属境外输入关联病例。
Epidemiological investigation shows that it is the Turkish importation of confirmed cases Lin close contacts, the foreign importation of related cases.
这意味着，在国内各地陆续清零之时，境外输入疫情的蔓延，已经成为最大的威胁。
This means that, as the country continues to clear its territory, the spread of the foreign import epidemic has become the greatest threat.
其实早在半个月前，国内各地都没预想到“境外输入”的威力。
In fact, as early as half a month ago, all over the country did not anticipate the power of "foreign imports."
3月3日之前，北京对于过去14天内未在中华人民共和国境内停留、经北京口岸入境的人员，免除居家观察14天的要求。
Prior to March 3, Beijing exempted residents who had not stopped inside the territory of the People's Republic of China for the past 14 days from the requirement of 14 days of observation by their families.
但在3月3日这天，北京调整了政策——凡是从韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等疫情严重国家经北京口岸入境的，如果是中转去外地的，严格按当地规定做好防疫工作；如果目的地是北京的，不论是中国人，还是外国人，都要实行隔离观察。
But on March 3, Beijing reshuffled its policy that all countries with serious epidemics, such as South Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan, that enter China through the port of Beijing and, if transiting to another country, do a good job of epidemic prevention in accordance with local regulations.
3月4日，国家卫健委首次把境外输入确诊案例的数据纳入每天更新的疫情情况公告。
On 4 March, the National Health Commission for the first time included data on confirmed cases imported from abroad in its daily update of the epidemic situation bulletin.
截至3月4日24时，已累计报告境外输入确诊病例20例。
As at 2400 hours on 4 March, a cumulative total of 20 confirmed cases had been reported from outside the country.
到了3月21日，这个数字变成了314例。
By March 21, the number had risen to 314.
随后，上海、广州也提升防控措施，对于凡是有韩国、意大利、伊朗、日本等疫情严重地区旅行或居住史的，入境后一律需接受居家或集中医学观察14天。
Subsequently, Shanghai and Guangzhou also stepped up prevention and control measures. Those with a history of travel or residence in areas with serious epidemics such as the Republic of Korea, Italy, Iran and Japan will be required to undergo home-based or intensive medical observation for 14 days after entry.
此后半个月，各地防控“境外输入”的政策由松到严，逐个堵塞漏洞。
Subsequently half a month, the prevention and control of "foreign import" policy from loose to strict, one by one plug loopholes.
但境外输入疫情仍呈防不胜防的态势。
But the imported epidemic situation is still too far-fetched to prevent.
1各地效仿北京江苏省疾控中心一位工作人员告诉南方周末记者，此前中央没有统一部署，各地针对海外入境人士的防控都是由当地疫情防控指挥部决定的。
According to a staff member from the Jiangsu CDC in Beijing, the central government has not made a unified plan before, and the control and prevention of overseas arrivals are determined by the local epidemic control command.
北京的隔离方案出来后，各地才开始了不同程度的效仿执行。
Beijing's isolation program came out, the implementation of different degrees of emulation began.
北京3月15日出台的隔离方案源于境外疫情日趋严重。
Beijing's March 15 quarantine program stems from a growing offshore epidemic.
这一天，境外累积病例数首次超过中国。
On that day, the number of cumulative cases abroad surpassed that of China for the first time.
意大利、伊朗、西班牙等国成为新冠肺炎的重灾区，美国、英国等“留学生大国”也大有后来居上之势。
Italy, Iran, Spain and other countries have become the new crown pneumonia disaster areas, the United States, the United Kingdom and other "big foreign students" are also likely to come.
此前四天，世界卫生组织宣布新冠肺炎疫情为全球大流行。
Four days earlier, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak a global pandemic.
越来越多的华裔、留学生、旅居者选择返回国内。
More and more Chinese, foreign students and expatriates are opting to return home.
欧美主要城市回国直飞的航班几乎售罄，中转的机票也都万元起步。
The major cities in Europe and the United States returned to the direct flight almost sold out, transit tickets are also 10,000 yuan to start.
英国留学生陈晓彤的机票就是花了近3万元买的，“平时直飞的机票才只要三千”。
Chen Xiaodong, a British student, paid nearly 30,000 yuan for the airfare, "usually only three thousand direct flights."
3月15日，北京市人民政府副秘书长陈蓓在北京市疫情防控发布会上宣布了机场新政：从3月16日零时起，所有境外进京人员，原则上均应转送至集中观察点进行14天的隔离观察，费用自理；有特殊情况者，经严格评估可进行居家观察。
On March 15, 2007, Deputy Secretary-General Chen Bei of the Beijing Municipal People's Government announced the New Deal at the Beijing Outbreak Control Conference: From 0000 hours on March 16, all overseas visitors should, in principle, be transferred to a centralized observation point for 14 days of quarantine observation at their own expense.
根据北京首都国际机场的公告，大兴机场的国际进港航班自3月13日起，也已全部转到首都机场运行。
According to the announcement of Beijing Capital International Airport, all international inbound flights from Daxing Airport have been transferred to the Capital Airport since March 13.
而所有国际及来自港澳台地区进港航班，均停靠首都机场处置专区，所有机上旅客都需接受海关测温等检疫排查。
All international and inbound flights from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan call at the Capital Airport's disposal area, where all passengers on board are subject to quarantine inspections such as customs temperature checks.
所谓首都机场处置专区，就是首都机场3号航站楼的D区。
The so-called Capital Airport Disposal Zone is Area D of Terminal 3 of the Capital Airport.
首都机场新闻中心的工作人员对南方周末记者表示，首都机场将该区域进行了3天的改造，从13日起，启用为疫情严重地区国际进港航班的处置专区。
Staff at the Capital Airport told Southern Weekend that the airport had been revamping the area for three days and, from 13, opened the disposal area for international inbound flights in highly affected areas.
15日起，根据新政，扩大作为所有境外航班的处置专区。
From 15 onwards, under the New Deal, the disposal area was expanded to include all offshore flights.
该工作人员还介绍了境外抵京人员的流程：境外旅客经检疫排查后办理入境手续，非中转旅客在专属休息区等候摆渡车，前往新国展旅客接驳区，交由各相关省、自治区、直辖市驻京办事处安排隔离；中转旅客在办理完中转手续后，再前往专属休息区候机。
The staff also introduced the procedures for overseas visitors arriving in Beijing after quarantine inspection, non-transit passengers waiting for the ferry in the exclusive lounge area, and going to the Beijing offices of the relevant provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities to arrange for isolation. After going through the transit formalities, they will go to the exclusive lounge waiting area.
北京作为第一个对所有境外入京人士，不分国籍、原则上进行集中隔离的做法，受到了网友们热烈欢迎。
Beijing as the first foreign visitors to Beijing, regardless of nationality, in principle, the practice of centralized segregation, was warmly welcomed by netizens.
3月17日，江苏省外事办发布通告，对有疫情防控重点国家16国旅居史的中外人员，进入江苏，原则上集中隔离14天，费用自理。
On March 17, the Foreign Affairs Office of Jiangsu Province issued a circular that Chinese and foreign personnel from 16 key countries with epidemic prevention and control should enter Jiangsu Province for 14 days at their own expense.
3月19日，上海市疫情防控工作领导小组发布，在原有16个重点国家基础上，新增8国作为疫情防控的重点国家，凡14天内有这24国旅居史的中外人员，进入上海，一律集中或居家隔离14天，费用自理。
On March 19, the Shanghai Leading Group for Disease Control and Prevention announced that, on the basis of the original 16 key countries, eight new countries would be designated as key countries for epidemic prevention and control.
3月21日，广东卫健委发文，即日零时起，凡14天内有国外旅居史的中外人员，目的地为广东的，一律集中或居家隔离14天，费用自理。
On March 21, the Guangdong Fitness and Health Commission issued a letter saying that from 0 pm on the same day, all Chinese and foreign residents with a foreign residence history who had travelled to Guangdong within 14 days would be centralized or housed in isolation for 14 days at their own expense.
基本与北京方案一致。
Mainly in line with the Beijing plan.
2不可承受之重北京机场正在承载着巨大压力。
The unbearable weight of Beijing airport is under great pressure.
新政实施的第一天，3月15日傍晚，首都机场T3航站楼人满为患。
On the first day of the new deal, on the evening of 15 March, the T3 terminal at the capital airport was overcrowded.
由于所有境外入京人员都需要集中隔离14天，机场大巴运送能力有限且需要等待时间，航站楼里积压了众多焦急等待的到达者。
Because of the 14 days of intensive isolation of all foreign visitors, the limited capacity of the airport bus and the waiting time required, there is a backlog of anxious arrivals in the terminal.
有现场旅客拍下了机场人多混乱的视频和相关照片发到网上，引发热传。
A live passenger filmed a jumble of airport people's videos and photos posted online, triggering a heat wave.
不仅机场挤满了人，负责各地分流转运的新国展集散点也人流密集。
Not only is the airport crowded with people, but the new national exhibition center, which is responsible for diversion and transit, is also crowded.
德国留学生陈蕃回国那天正巧是3月15日。
The day the German student Chen Fan returned home happened to be March 15.
下午三点，他从德国经曼谷的飞机抵达北京首都机场。
At 3 p. m., he arrived at the Beijing Capital Airport from Germany via Bangkok.
还未下机，空姐就提前给大家做好了心理准备：“今天是北京加强防控的第一天，等待时间会比较长。
Before disembarking, the stewardess prepared for everyone in advance: "Today is the first day of intensive prevention and control in Beijing, waiting time will be longer.
”用了将近6个小时，在机场完成了一系列的登记、检测、过关、拿行李后，陈蕃被送到了新国展中心。
After nearly six hours of registration, testing, customs clearance and baggage collection at the airport, Chen Fan was taken to the new China Development Center.
在这里，旅客会再次筛查并分流，交由各省份安排进行隔离。
Here, passengers are screened again and diverted to the provinces to arrange for isolation.
到新国展后，所有人需要检测体温，没有异样的被分流为北京和外省两部分人群。
After the new exhibition, everyone needs to be tested for body temperature, and there is no unusual diversion to Beijing and the provinces.
陈蕃是四川乐山人，找到所属地的工作人员进行登记后，他要在这里待上一晚，隔天再被送到机场飞往成都。
Chenbo is from Leshan, Sichuan Province, found the staff to register, he will stay here overnight, the next day was sent to the airport to Chengdu.
据陈蕃观察，新国展的人流量也很大，基本所有无症状抵京人员都要被运送至此进行分流。
According to Chen Fan observation, the new exhibition flow is also very large, basically all asymptomatic Beijing personnel have to be transported here for diversion.
常常是一批人还没走光，就来了两批新的人。
Often two new groups of people arrive before a group of people have gone.
“工作人员和车辆都有明显不足的感觉。
"There is a palpable sense of inadequacy on the part of staff and vehicles.
”等到隔天早上5点，陈蕃被送去机场登机，仍能看到很多坐了一晚上还在等派送的人。
By 5 a.m. the next morning, Chenbo was taken to the airport to board the plane and still had many people waiting to be delivered all night.
在他登上飞往成都的飞机时，仍未收到北京关于其核酸检测的结果。
By the time he boarded the plane bound for Chengdu, he had still not received results from Beijing on his nucleic acid test.
随着入境人员不断增加，北京机场已经开始吃不消了。
Beijing's airports are beginning to suffer as more and more people arrive.
北京3月19日的疫情防控工作新闻发布会介绍，目前首都机场口岸日均入境人员6000-8000人。
According to a press conference on the prevention and control of the disease on March 19, an average of 6,000 to 8,000 people are entering the country every day at the capital's airports.
自2月29日以来，由机场海关检疫转医疗机构筛查的人员累计2417人，日均127人，近一周来日均已达288人，3月18日更是高达479人。
Since 29 February, a total of 2,417 persons have been screened by the customs quarantine and medical institutions at the airport, with an average of 127 a day, reaching an average of 288 a day in the past week and 479 on 18 March.
北京地坛医院一力承担对境外入京人士的筛查、疑似病例和轻型、普通型确诊病例的治疗工作，但很快就力不从心。
Beijing Ditan Hospital was able to undertake the screening of foreign visitors, suspected cases and the treatment of confirmed cases of light and ordinary cases, but soon was unable to do so.
一位曾被转运至地坛医院检测排查的入境者告诉南方周末记者，急诊发热部门人潮汹涌，“护士喊破嗓子，都快哭了”。
An immigrant who had been transferred to Ditan Hospital for testing and screening told Southern Weekend reporter that the emergency fever department was in a rush. "The nurse broke her throat and began to cry."
3月16日，北京市疫情防控领导小组决定，时隔17年再次启用小汤山医院，分摊地坛医院对境外入京人士的筛查重任。
On March 16, the Beijing Leading Group for Disease Control and Prevention decided to reopen Xiaotangshan Hospital after a 17-year hiatus to share the burden of screening foreign visitors to Beijing.
尽管如此，新政坚持到第三天，3月19日，民航局、外交部、国家卫健委、海关总署、移民局联合发布了《关于目的地为北京的国际航班从指定第一入境点入境的公告（第1号）》，调整目的地为北京的部分国际航班从指定第一入境点入境。
Nevertheless, on the third day of the new deal, on 19 March, the Civil Aviation Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Sanitary Commission, the General Administration of Customs and the Immigration Bureau jointly issued the Proclamation Concerning the Entry of International Flights destined for Beijing from Designated First Entry Points (No. 1), adjusting the entry of some international flights destined for Beijing from designated first entry points.
天津、呼和浩特和太原机场将承担分流任务。
Tianjin, Hohhot and Taiyuan airports will assume the task of diversion.
到了3月22日，政策再次变动——自3月23日零时（北京时间）开始，所有目的地为北京的国际始发客运航班均须从天津、石家庄等12个指定的第一入境点入境。
By March 22, the policy had changed again - starting at 0000 hours (Beijing time) on March 23, when all international passenger flights destined for Beijing had to enter the country from 12 designated first-entry points, including Tianjin and Shijiazhuang.
3中转的漏洞令人担心的是，不论是最先的北京方案，或是后续的广州方案，对所有海外入境人士进行原则上14天隔离的政策，都没有将中转的旅客纳入其中。
The loophole in transit gives cause for concern that neither the original Beijing plan nor the subsequent Guangzhou programme has included transiting passengers in the 14-day quarantine policy in principle for all overseas arrivals.
北京市疾控中心的数据统计显示，截至3月18日24时，北京市累计报告境外输入确诊病例64例，居全国之首，78%的病例正是入境中转旅客。
Statistics from the Beijing CDC show that as of 2400 hours on March 18, 64 confirmed cases had been reported from outside Beijing, the highest number in the country, with 78% of cases being passengers in transit.
英国留学生余鹏通过自己的回国经历，对此深有体会。
Yu Peng, a British student, experienced this deeply through his own experience in China.
“我一说要回国，后台就收到了一堆骂我的私信。
"When I said I was going home, backstage I got a lot of personal abuse.
”余鹏是吉林人，时常在抖音上分享有趣的海外生活，收获了近100万的粉丝。
Yu Peng, a native of Jilin, often shares an interesting life abroad through shaking out his voice and reaping nearly a million fans.
当他近日宣称要回国时，一些原本关注他的粉丝也都纷纷表达了不满。
When he announced he was returning to China recently, some fans who had been following him expressed their displeasure.
为了不把病毒带回家，回国三天前，余鹏已向老家吉林市当地的社区主任进行了报备；也提前准备好了护目镜和口罩在回国途中全程佩戴。
To avoid taking the virus home, three days ago, Yu Peng sent word to his local community director in Jilin, China, and prepared goggles and masks for the entire journey home.
3月16日，余鹏先从英国伦敦飞往吉隆坡转机，搭乘的是马来西亚航空。
March 16, Yu Peng first flew from London, England, to Kuala Lumpur transit, is Malaysia Airlines.
令他惊讶的是，不管在伦敦机场，还是飞行全程，都没有任何测温环节。
To his surprise, there was no temperature measurement, either at London Airport or throughout the flight.
甚至他所搭乘的该航班机组人员，都没有佩戴口罩。
Even the crew of the flight in which he was travelling did not wear a mask.
从吉隆坡回国就不一样了，余鹏搭乘的是南方航空，除了登机前后的多次测温，机组人员也全程佩戴了口罩和手套。
The return from Kuala Lumpur is not the same, Yu Peng is a Southern Airlines, in addition to many before and after boarding temperature, the crew also wear masks and gloves throughout.
3月17日中午12时，飞机降落，余鹏顺利抵达了广州白云机场。
March 17 at 12 noon, the plane landed, Yu Peng arrived at Guangzhou Baiyun Airport.
当看到不管地勤还是机场里的引导人员都全副武装地穿上了防护服、口罩与护目镜时，余鹏再一次感受到国内疫情防控的“严阵以待”。
When he saw the ground and airport pilots are fully armed with protective clothing, masks and goggles, Yu Peng once again felt the prevention and control of the domestic epidemic "preparedness.
广州只是余鹏的中转站，按照原计划，他将于当天下午5点搭乘广州飞往吉林长春的航班，回到老家去。
Guangzhou is just Yu Peng's transit station, according to the original plan, he will take a flight from Guangzhou to Jilin Changchun back home at 5 pm on the same day.
但余鹏没能赶上当天下午飞吉林的航班，只能进行改签，改到3月18日上午8点的航班。
But Yu Peng failed to catch the afternoon flight to Jilin, can only be re-signed to March 18, 8 a.m. flight.
隔离大厅只能进，不能出，余鹏在完成改签后也只能在这个隔离区里待上一晚上。
Isolation hall can only enter, not out, Yu Peng in the completion of the re-signed can only stay in this area of separation overnight.
又因为该区域的座椅都是带有扶手隔开的，不能睡在椅子上，所有人只能干坐着等。
Because the seat of this area is having armrest to separate, cannot sleep on the chair, everybody can only sit and wait.
“说实话，我也不敢睡，人还是挺多的。
"To tell the truth, I dare not sleep, there are plenty of people.
”余鹏不敢睡，但也有敢睡的人。
"Yu Peng dare not sleep, but there are people who dare to sleep.
据他观察，现场还有一些是从泰国或非洲地区打工回来的人，随身带着被子，就直接在地上铺开睡了。
At the scene, he observed people returning from work in Thailand or the African region, carrying quilts with them and sleeping directly on the floor.
有人因为后续航班赶不上，改签的航班又比较靠后，在这里已经睡了3晚。
Some people are late for follow-up flights, re-signed flight later, here has been sleeping three nights.
“还好饭点都会派饭，服务还是挺好的。
"Fortunately, we serve rice at all times, and the service is good.
”余鹏补充道。
"added Yu Peng.
3月18日，余鹏坐上了回老家的飞机，上机前，他还没有得到在广州核酸检测的结果。
March 18, Yu Peng back home on the plane, before the plane, he has not been in Guangzhou nucleic acid test results.
“我原以为要在广州隔离14天后，没问题才能回吉林的。
"I thought I would go back to Jilin after 14 days of isolation in Guangzhou.
”余鹏向南方周末记者表达了一个假设性的担忧，“如果我是感染者，在广州又转机回了吉林，对于回吉林那个航班的人而言，是不是也有很大的风险？”3月19日，河南省和甘肃省相继发出公告，宣称各新增1例境外输入案例。
"If I were infected, I would have to return to Jilin in Guangzhou," Yu told Southern Weekend reporter. "Is there a great risk for people returning to Jilin on that flight?" On March 19, Henan Province and Gansu Province each announced a new case of overseas imports.
两名感染者均是此前从海外回国，在广州机场入境转机，最后在归属地被确诊、进行送医隔离。
Both infected people were previously returned from overseas, in Guangzhou airport transit, and finally in the home of diagnosis, isolation.
不仅河南和甘肃，全国多地也陆续出现了从北京、上海、广州等主要机场中转后向其他省市输入的境外新冠病例，打破了部分城市好不容易病例清零的格局。
Not only in Henan and Gansu, but also in many parts of the country, new cases of overseas crowns have been imported into other provinces and cities after transiting from Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, breaking the pattern of hard-won cases in some cities.
4“核酸检测要继续跟上”余鹏在机场过夜的当晚，陈晓彤从柬埔寨金边机场飞往广州的航班也降落了。
"Nucleic acid testing to keep up with" Yu Peng overnight at the airport, Chen Xiaodong from Phnom Penh airport in Cambodia to Guangzhou flights also landed.
陈晓彤是佛山人，此前也在英国读研，经柬埔寨转机。
Chen Xiaotong is from Foshan, who was also studying in Britain, via Cambodia.
由于目的地就是省内城市佛山，她被贴上了红色的标签。
Since the destination was Foshan, the province's city, she was labeled red.
在完成了多番信息登记和流行病学调查，同样进行了核酸检测后，陈晓彤拿到了机场发的通行证，被送至一个特定的旅客集散区。
After completing a number of information registration and epidemiological investigations, as well as nucleic acid testing, Chen Xiaodong received a pass issued by the airport and was sent to a specific passenger distribution area.
旅客集散区很大，放置了不同的指示牌，省外的、省内各市的、广州各区的，指引大家找到自己所属地的工作人员联系登记，即可等待专车送往相应目的地，进行14天的集中或居家隔离。
For those who live outside the province, in the cities of the province or in the districts of Guangzhou, the workers who guide you to the places to which they belong can contact the registration office and wait for the special bus to go to the appropriate destination for 14 days of intensive or residential isolation.
“像大学新生入学一样，找到自己系，跟大队走就行。
"Just like a freshman in college, find your own department and just follow the brigade.
”不过，陈晓彤原本是打算居家隔离的，她父母也提前和社区沟通过，自家有另一套房子可以满足居家隔离的条件。
But Chen Xiaodong was originally intended to be isolated at home, and her parents had spoken to the community ahead of time about their own separate home.
但是当她到达集散区后，被工作人员告知，从3月17日0时起，新的政策是所有留学生都必须集中隔离。
However, when she arrived at the distribution area, the staff informed her that, as of 0000 hours on 17 March, the new policy was that all international students must be segregated.
“当场就没忍住，哭了。
"I didn't stop crying on the spot.
”回国的全程，陈晓彤做足了防护，穿上防护服，没有进食，甚至用上了纸尿裤，为的是最大程度降低自己和他人的感染风险。
Chen Xiaodong did enough to protect himself, put on protective clothing, didn't eat and even used diapers to minimize the risk of infection for himself and others.
“就想着早一点回家怎么都行”。
Just think of going home a little earlier.
工作人员安慰她称，严格要求也是为了尽快结束疫情。
Staff reassured her that the strict requirements were also aimed at ending the outbreak as soon as possible.
陈晓彤听从了安排，但她想起在机场看到关于不同颜色标签对应的流程，不免觉得有点心酸。
Chen obeyed, but she thought it was a little sad to see the flow of color labels at the airport.
“为什么对中国人就那么严格？”根据广州白云机场3月17日发布的最新版防控疫情境外输入工作指引，没有重点国家和地区14天旅居史的外国旅客贴的是绿色标签，只需在引导下完成流行病学调查后，无异常即可至国际到达大厅，自行离开机场，核酸检测自愿进行。
According to the latest version of the Guidelines on the Prevention and Control of Outbound Influenza Outbound Imports issued by Guangzhou Baiyun Airport on March 17, foreign tourists with 14-day excursions in key countries and regions are given green labels.
一位深圳海关的工作人员告诉南方周末记者，对于外国人，不管是核酸检测或者集中隔离，都需要其自愿同意。
A Shenzhen customs official told Southern Weekend that the voluntary consent of foreigners, whether nucleic acid testing or concentration isolation, was required.
所以，在深圳湾过关时，除非检测出体温异常，很多外国人没有进行核酸检测。
Therefore, when Shenzhen Bay clearance, unless the detection of abnormal body temperature, many foreigners did not carry out nucleic acid testing.
3月18日，南方周末记者以外国人身份咨询了广州市外事办，对方表示，无论是机场或关口入关，外籍人士不强制进行核酸检测。
On March 18, Southern Weekend reporter asked Guangzhou Foreign Affairs Office as a foreigner, the other side said that whether the airport or customs entry, foreigners do not mandatory nucleic acid testing.
但是如果要进入广州市内，最终在目的地，所属社区都会劝服其接受核酸检测。
But to get into Guangzhou, and eventually at their destination, the community will persuade them to undergo nucleic acid testing.
在3月18日召开的广州市新闻发布会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山称，对于输入型病例要提高警惕。
At a press conference in Guangzhou on March 18, Zhong Nan-shan, head of the high-level group of experts from the State Sanitary Commission, said vigilance should be exercised in imported cases.
最近发现，许多外来地区人群，可能没有症状，但是核酸检测发现病毒相关指数很高。
It has recently been found that many people in foreign areas may be asymptomatic, but nucleic acid tests have found high virus-related indices.
无症状患者的甄别，考验出入境的防疫效果。
The screening of asymptomatic patients tests the effectiveness of vaccination against entry and exit.
钟南山表示，对入境人士需要更多的监测手段，“我还是主张核酸检测要继续跟上”。
Mr Zhong said more monitoring was needed for people entering the country and "I would argue that nucleic acid testing should continue to keep pace."
在国内“境外输入”防控压力空前的同时，减少入境人数成为另一个选项。
Reducing the number of people entering the country is another option at a time when the pressure to control "foreign imports" is unprecedented.
3月18日，北京市疾控中心副主任庞星火在新闻发布会上呼吁，海外留学生如非十分必须，应暂停回国或赴有疫情国家。
On March 18, Pong Xinghua, deputy director of the Beijing CDC, called on overseas students to suspend their return or travel to countries with epidemics if they are not absolutely necessary.
一位东方航空的管理人员告诉南方周末记者，近一周内东方航空取消了北美航线、欧洲航线近20个航程，部分航程最早也要等到4月份才开放。
An Eastern Airlines executive told Southern Weekend that China Eastern canceled nearly 20 flights to North America and Europe within the past week, with some flights not due to begin until April at the earliest.
一位英国留学生告诉南方周末记者，他曾两次购买从伦敦飞回上海的机票，却都被通知航班取消。
A British student told Southern Weekend that he had twice purchased tickets to fly back to Shanghai from London, but was told to cancel flights.
如今，他决定囤好物资，在国外的出租屋里等待疫情过去。
Now he has decided to hoard supplies and wait for the outbreak to pass in his rented rooms abroad.
“其实航空公司都想飞，是不让飞。
"Airlines want to fly. They don't want to fly.
”一位南方航空的工作人员对南方周末记者透露，“两边就是拉锯战，导致航班每天都是恢复了又取消，取消完又恢复。
"There was a tug-of-war on both sides, resulting in daily flights being resumed and canceled, canceled and resumed," a Southern Airlines official told Southern Weekend.
”上述南航工作人员表示，出于疫情考虑想减少航班的想法能够理解，但是将近2个月的“封冻”，让国内各大航空公司都面临艰难的生存困境。
The South China Airlines official said the idea of reducing flights was understandable in the light of the outbreak, but nearly two months of "freezing" had left domestic airlines facing a difficult survival dilemma.
民航局的数据显示，目前国内航班量仅恢复到正常水平的40%左右。
According to the Civil Aviation Authority, domestic flights are now only returning to about 40 per cent of normal levels.
刚过去的2月，国内航空公司亏损209.6亿元，创单月亏损最大纪录。
In the past February, domestic airlines reported record losses of 20.96 billion yuan.
（应受访者要求，余鹏、陈晓彤、陈蕃为化名）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题 。
(At the request of interviewees, Yu Peng, Chen Xiaotong, Chen Fan as an alias) poke the picture below to continue reading the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
紧急堵截“境外输入”： 全国学北京，政策堵漏由松到严。
Emergency blocking of "foreign imports": learning Beijing, the policy of plugging from loose to strict.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
