一个中医在武汉的新冠治疗实践：轻症可只用中药，重症需中西结合。
A Chinese medicine in Wuhan's new crown treatment practice: light disease can only use traditional Chinese medicine, severe need to combine Western and Chinese.
梁腾霄 吴靖。
Liang Tengxiao Wu Jing.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
亲历过SARS和汶川地震的医疗救治，这一次，梁腾霄又和同事到武汉支援了45天，前后收治96位病人。
Having experienced SARS and Wenchuan earthquake medical treatment, this time, Liang Tengxiao and colleagues to Wuhan to support 45 days, before and after the admission of 96 patients.
梁腾霄是一位中医，团队治疗的特点是中西结合。
Liang Tengxiao is a traditional Chinese medicine. Team therapy is characterized by the combination of Chinese and Western.
他认为中西医思路有区别，西医的思路是直接就把病毒枪毙，中医的办法是把这个邪气赶走。
He thinks Chinese and Western medicine have different ideas, the idea of Western medicine is to directly shoot the virus, the traditional Chinese medicine method is to drive away this evil.
他认为，轻症患者状态比较好的话，可以只用中药。
He thinks, light disease patient condition is better, can use Chinese traditional medicine only.
但是重症病人，肯定是要中西医结合的，不排斥抗病毒药物。
But seriously ill patients, must be a combination of Chinese and Western medicine, do not exclude antiviral drugs.
这个病毒是未知的，不要自己把中医拔得太高，毕竟也没有特别大的把握。
This virus is unknown, do not pull TCM too high, after all, there is no great certainty.
3月11日中午，来到武汉的第45天，梁腾霄和同事们终于腾空了湖北省中西医结合医院住院部6层的所有床位。
March 11, noon, came to Wuhan 45 days, Liang Tengxiao and colleagues finally vacated the Hubei Province combined with Western Medicine Hospital Department of the 6-floor beds.
按照指挥部的统一安排，一部分病人被转运到金银潭、火神山等几家医院集中治疗。
In accordance with the unified command arrangements, a number of patients were transferred to gold and silver pool, Mount Huoshen several hospitals centralized treatment.
归期，终于可期。
Return time, finally can be expected.
转运病人的通知在3月9日突然下达，这天梁腾霄本要去6层查房。
The notification of the transfer came suddenly on March 9th, when Liang Tengxiao was due to go to the sixth floor of the investigation room.
通知来得突然，工作被猛地按下了暂停键。
The notice came suddenly and the work was yanked against the pause button.
转运先是从ICU开始，十几个上了呼吸机的病人转走了。
Transshipment began with the ICU, and a dozen patients who had been on the ventilator turned away.
接着，是普通重症病人。
Then there is the common serious patient.
两天内，整个湖北省中西医结合医院的重症病人全部被转走，病房空了。
Within two days, all the patients in Hubei Province combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital were transferred away and the wards were empty.
此后，武汉市的4000多个危重症病人都陆续被集中收治。
Since then, more than 4,000 critically ill patients in Wuhan city have been centralized treatment.
更多医院已经提早结束战役，回到正常的轨道，重新开诊。
More hospitals have ended their campaigns early and are back on track to reopen.
像梁腾霄这样从全国各地赶来援助的4万多医护，归期已近。
With more than 40,000 people coming from all over the country to help, such as Liang Tengxiao, the return is near.
梁腾霄是北京中医药大学东直门医院的一位副主任医师。
Liang Tengxiao is a deputy director of Dongzhimen Hospital of Beijing TCM University.
他经历过多次重大疫情灾害的支援：2003年的SARS、2008年的汶川地震，再到这次新冠疫情。
He has experienced many major epidemics: SARS in 2003, the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, and the new crown.
1月27日，他和团队从北京出发，带着全院仅有的100多个医用N95口罩，直奔湖北省中西医结合医院。
January 27, he and his team from Beijing, with the hospital's only more than 100 N95 medical masks, straight to Hubei Province, the combination of Chinese and Western medicine.
截至3月12日病人转运完毕，整个团队已经连续工作了45天。
By 12 March, the patient had been transferred and the entire team had been working continuously for 45 days.
这是大多数援助医护的常态。
This is the norm for most health care assistance.
从进武汉那一刻开始，就意味着，不能停下，直到疫情结束。
From that moment into Wuhan, it means, can not stop, until the end of the epidemic.
这样的工作强度，超出了以往经验。
This kind of work intensity, surpasses the previous experience.
汶川地震那会儿，医生有可以喘息的时机，一般工作15天，就会被强制休息。
Wenchuan after the earthquake, doctors have a respite, generally working 15 days, will be forced to rest.
在梁腾霄看来，中医和西医面对病毒的理念有很大的区别。
Liang Tengxiao, traditional Chinese medicine and western medicine face the concept of virus has a great difference.
他的治疗实践特点是中西结合，没有排斥西医，不抗拒使用抗病毒药物。
His treatment practice is characterized by the combination of Chinese and Western medicine, do not exclude Western medicine, do not resist the use of antiviral drugs.
对于新冠病毒，他有一个逐步认识的过程。
He had a step-by-step process of understanding the new crown virus.
即便到了现在，他也认为还没有认识到全貌。
Even now he did not think that the whole picture had been realized.
离开武汉后，他希望继续对病人随访，摸索出更多治疗经验，未来可以更好地面对这个未知的病毒。
After leaving Wuhan, he hopes to continue to follow up with patients to find out more treatment experience, the future can better face the unknown virus.
以下内容根据梁腾霄的口述整理：△梁腾霄在为患者诊疗。
According to Liang Tengxiao's oral arrangement: Liang Tengxiao is seeing and treating patients.
本文图片由受访者提供。
This photo was provided by the interviewee.
亲历SARS、汶川地震，又来了武汉1月27日，我们从北京来到武汉。
In person experience SARS, Wenchuan earthquake, and then came to Wuhan January 27, we came from Beijing to Wuhan.
我们医院来了6个医生，13个护士，1个领队。
There are 6 doctors, 13 nurses and a leader in our hospital.
我们20个人，和北京中医药大学东方医院的20个医护组成北京中医药大学医疗队，包了湖北省中西医结合医院住院部第六层楼的整个病区，轮流干活。
The 20 of us, together with 20 medical personnel from the Oriental Hospital of Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, made up the whole sick area of the sixth floor of the Hospital of Chinese and Western Medicine in Hubei Province and took turns working.
东方医院24小时，东直门医院24小时。
Eastern Hospital 24 hours, Dongzhimen Hospital 24 hours.
到3月11日，我们已经来了45天，前后一共收治了96个病人。
By March 11, we had been here for 45 days and had treated 96 patients.
最初，我们收进来的病人都是病情很严重的，接近危重症。
Initially, the patients we brought in were seriously ill and in critical condition.
后来武汉重症病人逐渐减少。
Wuhan gradually reduced the number of serious patients.
现在我们病房里，有一些是从方舱医院转过来的，病情加重的患者。
Now, in our ward, there are patients who have been transferred from the cabin hospital and are in a worse condition.
我亲历了SARS，那年我还是个二十六七岁的小伙子。
I lived with SARS, and I was a boy of twenty-six or seven that year.
印象最深的是，比我大10岁左右的一个同事去世了。
What impressed me most was the death of a colleague about 10 years older than me.
2003年3月17日，他接诊了我们医院第一例SARS病人。
On March 17, 2003, he attended the first SARS patient in our hospital.
当时北京还没有重视这个传染病，防护意识不强，给病人气管插管也只是戴外科口罩，接着他就被感染了，4月19日去世。
Beijing did not pay much attention to the epidemic, was not well aware of the protection, gave the patient trachea intubation is only wearing surgical masks, then he was infected, died on April 19.
那是我第一次感受到死亡离自己这么近。
It was the first time I felt that death was so close to me.
△梁腾霄在汶川地震救助现场。
LiangTengxiao Wenchuan earthquake relief scene.
2008年，我去了汶川地震现场，帮着转运病人。
In 2008, I went to Wenchuan earthquake scene to help transfer patients.
北京市组织了一批医疗队。
Beijing has organized a medical team.
除了120，每家医院也要出一辆救护车，一个医生，一个护士和两个司机。
In addition to 120, each hospital has to give out an ambulance, a doctor, a nurse and two drivers.
救护车是用火车，从北京运到现场。
Ambulances are transported by train from Beijing to the scene.
我们坐另一班火车抵达，一共运过去了70多台救护车。
We arrived by another train and transported more than 70 ambulances.
到了现场，每天都会有人从前线给我指派任务。
When I got to the scene, I was assigned tasks from the front every day.
我们坐救护车去找现场被救出来的伤员，观察病情，看哪些可以坐飞机，哪些可以坐火车。
We took an ambulance to find the wounded who had been rescued at the scene, to observe the condition, to see which could fly, which could take the train.
一辆救护车一般能塞下两到三个伤员。
An ambulance can usually hold two or three injured people.
那个时候，成都以及周边地市医院都是伤员，已经满负荷。
At that time, Chengdu and the surrounding city hospitals are injured, has been full load.
我们需要连夜把病人送到机场或者火车站，让伤员到其他省市治疗。
We need to take patients overnight to airports or train stations and have the wounded treated in other provinces and cities.
最远的一次，我们把伤员从现场送到重庆的一家医院，再连夜赶回成都。
The furthest, we sent the wounded from the scene to a hospital in Chongqing and rushed back to Chengdu overnight.
这样的状况持续了十几天。
This situation lasted for more than a decade.
△梁腾霄在汶川地震救助现场。
LiangTengxiao Wenchuan earthquake relief scene.
这是我第三次来到前线。
This is my third visit to the front.
来之前，院长打电话征求我意见，觉得经历过这些（SARS、汶川地震），不强求我去。
Before I came, the dean called me for advice and felt like I had been through all this (SARS, Wenchuan earthquake) and didn't ask me to go.
但我还是来了，我想同事们会需要我的经验。
But I did come, and I think my colleagues will need my experience.
出发前，我隐隐有一点担忧，觉得会不会有可能回不去了。
Before I set out, I was vaguely worried about the possibility that I might not be able to return.
到了这里，我的经验确实还是起到了一些作用。
To be here, my experience has certainly made a difference.
比如，如何最大程度降低感染风险。
For example, how to minimize the risk of infection.
我跟同事们说：你进病房之前要想，为什么要进这个病房。
I told my colleagues: think about why you're in this ward before you go into it.
如果和病人讲几句话就能够把这件事儿办完，那就不要过多逗留。
If you can get the job done in a few words with the patient, don't linger too much.
如果没有这样的意识的话，很容易沟通效率低。
Without such awareness, it is easy to communicate inefficiently.
反复进病房，就会增加感染的机会。
Repeated admission to the ward increases the chance of infection.
因为只要有同事感染，队伍一减员，就会动摇军心，整个队伍的工作就会有很大的困难。
Because as long as there are colleagues infected, a reduction in the team, will shake the heart of the army, the work of the entire team will be very difficult.
如果保护不好自己，也就难以去照料好病人。
If you don't protect yourself, it's hard to take care of the sick.
幸运的是，我们20人的状况目前都还不错。
Fortunately, all 20 of us are doing well so far.
对新冠病毒，我们有一个认识的过程湖北中西医结合医院是家综合性医院，本身没有传染病房。
For the new crown virus, we have an understanding of the process Hubei combined Chinese and Western medicine hospital is a general hospital, there is no infectious disease room itself.
疫情发生后，医院对病房进行紧急改造，按照“三区双通道”的结构改造住院处。
After the outbreak, the hospital made emergency renovation to the wards, according to the "three-zone two-way" structure of the inpatient reform.
三区是指清洁区、半污染区和污染区，双通道是指医护人员通道和病人通道。
Region III refers to the clean area, semi-polluted area and contaminated area, and the two-way refers to medical personnel access and patient access.
我们抵达的时候改造工作整体上已经完成，我们做了一些细节上的调整，使病房更符合收治传染病的要求。
By the time we arrived, the renovation work had been completed in its entirety, and we had made some fine-tuning to make the wards more responsive to the needs of patients with infectious diseases.
一开始，北京医疗队只接管了住院处六楼的一个病区，一共14个房间，37张床，其中两张床没有氧气装置。
Initially, the Beijing medical team took over only one sick area on the sixth floor of the inpatient department, consisting of 14 rooms and 37 beds, two of which were without oxygen.
这个病区最开始收疑似病例，每个人都要单间管理，所以只收了14个病人。
The area started with a suspected case and everyone had to be kept in a separate room, so only 14 patients were admitted.
没过几天，这个病区改为确诊病房，就可以按病床收治了。
In a few days, the ward was converted into a confirmed ward, ready for treatment by bed.
到2月8日，35张床就住满了。
By February 8, 35 beds were fully occupied.
北京医疗队一共40个人，25名护士，15名医生。
The Beijing medical team consists of 40 people, 25 nurses and 15 doctors.
这样的人手配置是比较紧张的。
Such staffing is relatively tight.
一般合理的配置重症病房应该是一张床配2.5个护士。
General reasonable configuration of the intensive care unit should be a bed with 2.5 nurses.
35张床，光护士就需要80多人，这在疫情期间是不可能的。
Thirty-five beds, more than 80 for nurses alone, which was not possible during the outbreak.
尤其是后来还增加了一部分去ICU查房的工作，给上呼吸机的病人做检查，工作量就更大了。
In particular, there was an increase in the number of visits to ICU rooms, which increased the workload for patients on ventilators.
在治疗上，我们的任务主要是想办法阻止病人从重症转成危重症，最终减少死亡率。
In terms of treatment, our task is mainly to find ways to prevent patients from serious to critical, and ultimately to reduce mortality.
治疗外，对病人生活上的照料也花了我们很多精力。
In addition to treatment, it takes a lot of energy to take care of the patient's life.
比如，病人没有力气端水，倒水，上厕所，吃饭，这些都需要我们来帮忙做，就还担任了护工和卫生员的角色。
For example, patients do not have the energy to carry water, pour water, go to the toilet, or eat, all of which require our help.
对新冠病毒，我们有一个认识的过程。
We have a process of understanding the new crown virus.
一开始，病人到我们手上时，大都已经很重了。
At first, when the patients got to us, most of them were already heavy.
对于这个病到底会怎么样变化，我们不是特别了解，不是特别有把握。
We don't know much about how the disease will change. We're not particularly sure about it.
前期治疗的时候，病情难以控制。
Early treatment, the disease is difficult to control.
我们接诊的第一位病人是一位90岁的老爷爷，从高干病房转过来的，看上去物质条件比较好，但转过来第三天就去世了。
The first patient we saw was a 90-year-old grandfather, who had been transferred from the tall ward. He looked better, but died on the third day.
因为他年岁比较大，本身就有肺癌，还有其它基础病。
Because he is older, he has lung cancer and other basic diseases.
还有时候，一个病人很突然就死了，这也是新冠病毒的一个特点。
There are also times when a patient dies suddenly, a feature of the new crown virus.
就是你可能没有想象他会病得那么严重，但是病情发展很快。
You may not have imagined that he would be so ill, but it is developing rapidly.
早上医生去查房的时候还好好的，转身查房结束，就停止了呼吸。
In the morning when the doctor went to check the room is still well, turned around to check the end of the room, stopped breathing.
后来发现，是因为没有及时观察到他的呼吸已经衰竭了。
It turned out that his breathing had failed because he had not been observed in time.
那时我们接诊的都是发病时间比较久的重症病人。
At that time, we were all treated for serious diseases with a long history of illness.
从生病到住院大概平均都已过去12天，我们看不到患者早期的疾病状况，没法了解整个疾病自然病程的全过程。
About 12 days after the illness and hospitalization, we can't see the patient's early illness and understand the course of the disease's natural course.
没有看到全貌的话，治疗的方案，准确程度多多少少会受一些影响。
Without seeing the full picture, the treatment plan, the degree of accuracy will be somewhat affected.
现在有一部分病人是从方舱医院过来，基本发病时间是在7天以内，时机很好，我们可以早一点进行干预。
Some of the patients are now coming from the cabin hospital. The time of onset is less than 7 days. The timing is good. We can intervene earlier.
从病情相对来说比较轻的患者身上，我们慢慢看到了这个疾病发展的全过程，对这个疾病有了比较直观的认识。
From the relatively light patients, we slowly saw the disease development process, the disease has a more intuitive understanding.
当然，还是没看到最早期的。
Of course, I still haven't seen the earliest.
尸检的结果对我们认识这个疾病有很大帮助。
The results of the autopsy are of great help in our understanding of the disease.
一开始我们没有意识到，病人肺部会有很多粘稠的痰。
At first we didn't realize that there was a lot of sticky sputum in the patient's lungs.
这个病有一个比较讨厌的地方，病人自己咳出来的痰并不多，基本都是干咳，无痰。
This disease has a more annoying place, patients cough out of phlegm is not much, basically are dry cough, no sputum.
所以前期治疗，我们主要以防止肺部纤维化为主。
Therefore, the pretreatment, we mainly to prevent pulmonary fibrosis.
抗纤维化实际上是不容易的，难度也大，但是化痰相对容易。
Anti-fibrosis is actually not easy and difficult, but it is relatively easy to turn sputum around.
如果主要以化痰为主，反而比较好治疗，也能更快起效。
If the main chemical phlegm, on the contrary, better treatment, can also be more effective.
所以，第一例尸检结果一出来，我就跟团队讨论，调整了治疗策略。
So, as soon as the first autopsy results came out, I discussed it with the team and adjusted the treatment strategy.
轻症可以只用中药，重症不会抗拒抗病毒药物我们治疗的特点是中西结合。
Light disease can only use Chinese medicine, serious illness will not resist antiviral drugs our treatment is characterized by the combination of Chinese and Western.
轻症患者状态比较好的话，可以只用中药。
Light disease patient condition is better, can use Chinese traditional medicine only.
但是重症病人，肯定是要中西医结合的，不会抗拒使用抗生素、抗病毒药物。
But seriously ill patients, must be a combination of Chinese and Western medicine, will not resist the use of antibiotics, antiviral drugs.
这个病毒是未知的，不要自己把中医拔得太高，毕竟也没有特别大的把握，干吗不用抗病毒药物呢？印象很深的是，有一个病人呼吸已经很困难了，已经符合转入ICU的指标，符合插管治疗的要求。
This virus is unknown, do not pull TCM too high, after all, there is no great certainty, why not use antiviral drugs? Impressed, one patient has difficulty breathing, has met the criteria for transfer to ICU, the requirements for intubation treatment.
但是他年岁大了，79岁，我们怕他一插管就摘不下来了，没有让他去ICU。
But he's old, 79, and we're afraid he won't be able to get it off and let him go to ICU.
这样的状况，是一定要中西医结合治疗的。
Such a situation, it is necessary to combine Chinese and Western medicine treatment.
老大爷吃不了东西，就得静脉给他营养；继发了一些细菌感染，要给他用抗生素；不想喝水，我们要输液补充水分，补充人体需要的这些元素。
When the old man can't eat, he has to be fed intravenously. Then he gets some bacterial infections and needs antibiotics. If he doesn't want some water, we need fluids to replenish the body's supply.
糖、脂肪、蛋白、氨基酸这些东西都要给进去。
Sugar, fat, protein, amino acids all need to be included.
这个就是西医的治疗，稳定患者体内的环境。
This is the treatment of Western medicine, the stability of the patient's environment.
他进来前，在其他地方治疗的时候用了阿比多尔、莲花清瘟胶囊等药，但病情依然没有好转，还有40多年的高血压和30多年的冠心病病史。
Before he came in, he used drugs such as Abidor and lotus rinse rinderpest capsules for treatment elsewhere, but his condition remained unchanged, along with more than 40 years of hypertension and more than 30 years of coronary heart disease.
我检查了他的舌苔，红偏紫，右侧苔黄腻，左侧苔少，中部脱落。
I examined his tongue, which was reddish-purple, greasy to the right, mossy to the left, and shedding to the centre.
我从中医角度判断是，疫病疫毒闭肺、热盛津亏症。
I judge from the point of view of TCM, epidemic virus closed lung, hot Sheng Jin deficiency.
而我的这个辨证分型，是第五版指南里中医各个分期都没有提及到的，这就是中医的个体化治疗。
And my dialectical classification, is the fifth edition of the guidelines of TCM stages are not mentioned, this is the individualized treatment of TCM.
所以我给他用了以益气清热、养阴透邪的中药药方。
So I gave him a traditional Chinese medicine prescription that could refresh the heat and nourish the evil spirits.
后来我又和几个专家会诊，调整了方子。
Then I met with a few experts and adjusted the prescription.
我们的治疗不能局限于指南。
Our treatment cannot be limited to guidelines.
指南是给学生看的，给没用过中医治疗的医生看的。
The guidebook is for students and for doctors who have not used Chinese medicine.
就像你用手机似的，你第一次用手机的时候，你要看说明书，但买第二部手机的话，谁都不看说明书，就是自己开发了，对不对？这个病人是2月5日进来的，到2月19日的时候，不吸氧的状态下血氧饱和度已经达到97%，符合所有出院标准，他就顺利出院了。
Like you use your cell phone, the first time you use a cell phone, you have to read the instructions, but if you buy the second phone, no one will read the instructions, you have developed it yourself, right? The patient entered on February 5th and reached 97% hypoxia by February 19, meeting all discharge criteria.
从中医的角度，我们讲扶正祛邪。
From the point of view of TCM, we talk about Fuzheng dispel evil.
比如这个病毒，它是损伤人体的，中医叫邪气。
For example, this virus, it is damage to the human body, TCM called evil.
而靠自己的能力维持机体的这部分，就叫正气。
On their own ability to maintain this part of the body, is called Zhengqi.
邪气入侵，正气就虚了。
An evil spirit invades, and righteousness is empty.
祛邪有好多办法，西医的思路，就是直接就把细菌、病毒枪毙。
Dispel evil has a lot of ways, the idea of Western medicine, is to directly shoot bacteria, viruses.
最典型的就是抗生素，抗病毒的药。
Typical are antibiotics, antiviral drugs.
中医的办法是把这个邪气赶走。
The way for TCM is to drive this evil away.
比如说夏天屋子里进来一只苍蝇，老在这飞，挺讨厌的。
For example, a fly comes in the house in the summer and flies always fly here, which is really annoying.
你把窗都给它关上，然后打这只苍蝇，这就是西医的办法。
You shut all the windows and beat the fly. That's the way Western medicine works.
它老在那飞，你屋子又大，怎么办呢？你老逮不着它。
What if it's always flying there and your room is big? You can't catch it.
但是也有个办法，开开窗户，然后拿个扇子扇一扇。
But there's a way to open the window and grab a fan.
这个苍蝇也不死心眼，它可能飞出去。
The fly doesn't give up. It may fly out.
飞出去你再把门关上，你这就好了。
Fly out You close the door again. you're all right.
这是中医的思路，就是给邪气出路。
This is the train of thought of TCM, is to give evil gas outlet.
当然中医祛邪的方法有很多，给邪以出路只是其中的一种。
Of course, there are many ways to dispel evil traditional Chinese medicine, to evil just one way out.
以后还要好好研究，好好挖掘中医这个宝库。
We will study it carefully and dig up the treasure house of TCM.
对于重症患者来说，治疗时机非常重要。
Timing of treatment is very important for patients with severe illnesses.
在适合的时机上，用一个适当的方法，可能不一定要多大的力，病人可能就恢复了。
At the right time, with an appropriate method, it may not take much force for the patient to recover.
这个时机要是错过去了，你可能不管用多大的力气也挽救不回来了。
If the moment is lost, you may not be able to save it, no matter how hard you try.
这个时机不是医生定的。
The timing wasn't set by the doctor.
从重转危的过程，中医有一个说法叫做截断扭转。
There is a term in TCM called truncation torsion for the process of returning to danger.
截断病势，然后扭转回去。
Cut off the disease and turn it around.
掌握这个时机非常关键。
Seizing this moment is crucial.
新冠病毒有一个特点，它可能会对血液系统有侵犯。
The new crown virus has a characteristic that may invade the blood system.
有个指标是D-二聚体，我观察了这个指标，发现新冠病毒在血管内形成微血栓的可能性比别的病毒性肺炎要高。
One indicator is the D-dimer, which I observed and found that the new canopy virus is more likely to form microthrombosis in the blood vessels than other viral pneumonia.
我们现在所有的精力都在急性期的治疗上。
All our energies are now focused on the acute phase of treatment.
后期长久来看，到底这个病会怎么发展，谁也不清楚。
In the long run, it is not clear how the disease will develop.
但是，至少我观察到，在出院重症患者身上，还有一个指标偏低，那就是淋巴细胞计数。
But, at least, I have observed that in patients with severe discharge, there is another indicator that is low: lymphocyte counts.
这说明免疫系统受损了，短期内还难以恢复。
This indicates that the immune system is compromised and is unlikely to recover in the short term.
这个病毒对免疫系统到底是不是一个持续的损伤，还有待观察。
It remains to be seen whether the virus is a continuing damage to the immune system.
我们计划病人出院以后，要按一个月、三个月、半年这几个阶段，帮他们安排CT检查、随访。
We plan to help the patients arrange CT examination and follow-up after they are discharged from hospital according to the phases of one month, three months and six months.
我们将来也可能会定期过来随访。
We may also come here regularly in the future.
这对医疗队来说是额外的工作，但我们还是觉得要观察。
It was an extra job for the medical team, but we still felt obliged to observe.
因为现在患病群体也不是个小群体，八万多确诊病例，将来如果能摸索出一些后续治疗经验的话，就更好了。
Because the group is not a small group, more than 80,000 confirmed cases, in the future if some follow-up treatment experience, it would be even better.
偶尔治愈，总是安慰除了治疗，我们还要去安慰和鼓励病人。
Occasionally healed, always comforting In addition to healing, we have to comfort and encourage the sick.
现在每天早上起来第一件事情就是先测体温，先自我感觉一下，好像没有发烧，那今天挺高兴。
Now the first thing I do in the morning is to take a temperature first and feel like you don't have a fever.
我们隔一天就要进一次病房，每次进病房都是一次新的被感染的机会。
We entered the ward every other day, and every time we entered the room it was a new chance to get infected.
今天进病房，就意味着未来的14天都不安全。
Going to the ward today means the next 14 days are not safe.
就怕哪一天一发烧，可能就是发病了。
Afraid of which day a fever, may be the onset of illness.
大家都有这样的压力。
Everybody's under this kind of pressure.
有时候碰到有病人病情加重的情况，我能够感受到整个医疗队，包括医生，包括护士，都很不开心。
Sometimes, when patients get worse, I can feel the unhappiness of the whole medical team, including the doctors, including the nurses.
病人前一天还好好的，来的时候没有那么重，但是急剧转化，后一天可能要带呼吸机，要带无创的机器吸氧了。
The patient was fine the day before and not so heavy when he arrived, but with a sharp change, he might have to take a ventilator later in the day and breathe oxygen with a non-invasive machine.
这时候会很沮丧，有点有劲使不出来的这种感觉，很无力。
At this time will be very depressed, a little bit of energy out of this feeling, very weak.
病人会焦虑，他会不断地问你，我的病情怎么样？我的化验单结果怎么样？我什么时候能出院？我这个病得治多长时间？每天都会这样反复问。
The patient will be anxious, he will keep asking you, how is my condition? How about my laboratory report? When can I be discharged from hospital? How long do I have to treat this illness?
而大多数时候，病人即使没有病情加重，也会有情绪崩溃的时候。
And most of the time, even if the patient is not getting any worse, he or she will experience emotional breakdown.
我们的很多时间，都在陪伴和安慰病人，听她诉说。
Much of our time was spent with and comforting the sick, listening to her.
有一个病人，六十多岁的一个老太太，有一天晚上暴哭。
One patient, an old woman in her sixties, burst into tears one night.
她老伴去世了。
Her old wife died.
住院的时候，她住六层，老伴住三层，谁也见不到谁。
When she was hospitalized, she lived on the sixth floor, her wife lived on the third floor, and no one saw anyone.
她刚来的时候就跟我们讲，能不能调整在一个屋子里，这样互相容易照顾。
When she first came, she told us if she could fit into a room so she could take care of each other.
我们就说可以，就给她联系。
We'll just say yes and we'll get back to her.
一开始三楼医护人员说，老先生没有确诊，是疑似病例，她这边是确诊的，所以不能转上来。
At the beginning of the third floor said that the old man is not diagnosed, is a suspected case, her side of the diagnosis, so can not be transferred.
我们也就跟她这么讲。
That's what we're talking about.
实际上医护人员没有跟我们说实话。
Actually the paramedics didn't tell us the truth.
后来再过段时间，三楼的医护人员说老先生已经去世了。
Later, the paramedics on the third floor said the old man had died.
过了一周，老太太家里人给她打电话，告诉了她这个事情。
A week later, the old lady's family called her and told her about it.
她有一段时间不太吃东西。
She hasn't eaten much for a while.
有一天晚上，她情绪一下就宣泄了，大哭。
One night she was in a state of deep emotion and began to cry.
我们的护士就陪伴在旁边，和她聊天，疏解情绪，慢慢就过去了。
Our nurse stayed with her, chatting with her, relieving her emotions, and slowly passed away.
现在她也已经出院了。
Now she's out of the hospital.
梁腾霄|口述吴靖|撰稿王吉陆|责编致读者：“八点健闻”公众号将于4月11日恢复更新。
AT RATE & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Oral English & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Writing & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在此之前，我们在“八点健闻Plus”发表报道。
Before that, we published a report at Eight Point Health Plus.
敬请关注。
Attention, please.
我们尊重原创版权，未经授权请勿转载。
We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
郑琪|授权转载微信号：1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
CHENG Chi-chi & # 124; Authorize the Reproduction of Microsignals: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tracing tips, feedback, joining the core reader community, please sweep code to let friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个中医在武汉的新冠治疗实践：轻症可只用中药，重症需中西结合。
A Chinese medicine in Wuhan's new crown treatment practice: light disease can only use traditional Chinese medicine, severe need to combine Western and Chinese.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "一个中医在武汉的新冠治疗实践：轻症可只用中药，重症需中西结合";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; A Chinese medicine practice at Wuhan's new crown: Light illness may be treated with Chinese medicine alone, with severe cases requiring Western and Chinese incorporation;;
var msg_desc = "不吹不黑，只谈支援武汉45天的一线实践";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
