张文宏曹彬彭志勇，向美国顶级医疗专家、政界人士分享抗疫经验。
Zhang Wenhong Cao Bin Peng Zhiyong, to the United States top medical experts, politicians to share anti-epidemic experience.
健闻王晨。
Good news Wang Chen.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
新冠病毒肺炎（COVID-19）不分国界。
The New Crown Virus Pneumonia (COVID-19) knows no borders.
想要帮助全人类战胜这种疾病，美国和中国以及世界其它各国专家之间的密切合作必不可少。
Close cooperation between the United States and China, as well as experts from around the world, is essential to help humanity overcome this disease.
哪类患者会转为危重症病人？哪些病人会幸存？区分他们的临床特征是什么？这些是美国各州医生最关注的问题。
What types of patients become critically ill? Which patients survive? What are their clinical characteristics? These are the main concerns of doctors in all states of the United States.
曹彬团队发现，新冠病毒在体内的平均存活时间长达20天，比流感病毒长得多。
The team found that the average survival time of the new cap virus in the body was 20 days, much longer than the flu virus.
何时使用无创通气或有创通气，何时需要上ECMO人工肺，彭志勇分享了具体的可测量参数。
When to use non-invasive ventilation or invasive ventilation, when ECMO artificial lung, Peng Zhiyong shared specific measurable parameters.
一位美国政界人士表示，＂这些三位中国专家了解而我们不了解的知识，如果能够尽快应用，将挽救全美国人的生命。
"What these three Chinese experts know and do not know, if applied quickly, will save the lives of all Americans," said one US politician.
＂2020年3月上旬，来自美国俄亥俄州的一位华裔医生接到一位朋友的邀请，问她是否有兴趣参加一场来自中国武汉抗疫一线医生的视频会议。
In early March 2020, a Chinese-American doctor from Ohio was invited by a friend to ask her if she would be interested in taking part in a videoconference from a leading Chinese doctor of the epidemic in Wuhan, China.
和许多美国华裔医生一样，从1月份就关注武汉疫情的她立即答应，并邀请自己的美国同事也参与。
Like many Chinese-American doctors, she has been following the Wuhan epidemic since January and has invited her American colleagues to join her.
令她没想到的是，上个月同事们还认为她“大惊小怪”，不认为新冠疫情和美国有关系，此时都表现得非常积极。
To her surprise, colleagues last month thought she was "making a fuss" and didn't think the new crown had anything to do with the United States.
会议开始的时候，这位华裔医生惊讶地发现，美国大学和顶尖医院都派了最顶级的科学家、医生参加了这场临床交流会。
At the beginning of the meeting, the Chinese-American doctor was surprised to find that American universities and top hospitals had sent top scientists and doctors to participate in the clinical exchange.
美国西部时间2020年3月13日早上九点半，来自哈佛大学、哥伦比亚大学、华盛顿大学医学院的科学家、全美的100多家顶尖医院的ICU主任、呼吸科主任、传染科主任及院长、CDC十几名工作人员、美国参议院前多数党领袖和公共健康委员会主席等近三百名人士，同时参与了这场线上视频交流。
At 9: 30 am, scientists from Harvard University, Columbia University, University of Washington School of Medicine, more than 100 top hospitals across the country, ICU directors, respirators, directors and deans of infectious diseases, more than a dozen CDC workers, former Senate majority leaders, and public health committee chairmen participated in the online video exchange.
其中，仅哥伦比亚大学就派了八名顶尖专家参与，包括艾滋病鸡尾酒疗法之父何大一，他正领导哥伦比亚大学四个团队研究抗新冠病毒药物。
Columbia University alone sent eight top experts, including He Da-yi, the father of AIDS cocktail therapy, who is leading four Columbia University teams working on a new crown-virus drug.
这场会议的主讲方来自中国的三位医生。
The conference was led by three Chinese doctors.
他们分别是武汉大学中南医院重症监护室（ICU）主任彭志勇，中日友好医院副院长曹彬，上海复旦大学附属华山医院感染科张文宏。
They are Peng Zhiyong, director of intensive care unit (ICU) of Wuhan University, Cao Bin, Vice-Dean of Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, and Zhang Wenhong, Infection Department, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai.
自武汉新冠疫情爆发以来，这三位专家都一直奋战在一线，有丰富的临床经验和大城市防控经验。
Since the outbreak of the new crown outbreak in Wuhan, these three experts have been fighting in the front line, with rich clinical experience and experience in large cities prevention and control.
此外，他们也是各自专业领域中的佼佼者。
In addition, they are among the best in their respective fields of expertise.
组织者并非官方，而是来自民间。
The organizers are not official, but from civil society.
这场会议几乎是疫情爆发后，美国医学界最大规模的会议，其组织方是由华人投资家李录创办的美国喜马拉雅资本。
The conference, almost the largest in the US medical community since the outbreak, was organized by the American Himalayan Capital, founded by Chinese investor Li Luo.
在1月份武汉疫情爆发伊始，湖北医院物资最紧张的时刻，李录慈善基金会从海外向湖北以及全国的100多家医院捐赠了一千余万人民币的物资。
At the start of the Wuhan outbreak in January, when Hubei hospital supplies were at its peak, the Li Luo Charitable Foundation donated more than 10 million yuan from overseas to Hubei and more than 100 hospitals across the country.
在当时美国各界并没有意识到这场疫情会影响美国时，一直关注武汉疫情的他意识到：“COVID-19不分国界，它会平等地感染所有人。
At a time when the American community did not realize that the epidemic would affect the United States, he has been concerned about the Wuhan epidemic, he realized: "COVID-19 knows no borders, it will affect everyone equally.
想要帮助全人类战胜这种疾病，美国和中国以及世界其它各国专家之间地密切合作是必不可少的。
Close cooperation between the United States and China, as well as experts from the rest of the world, is essential to help humanity overcome this disease.
”喜马拉雅资本的总部在华盛顿州的西雅图，西雅图成为第一个出现聚集性病例的美国城市，“保卫西雅图”成为这场会议举办的初衷。
Seattle, Washington, where Himalayan capital is headquartered, became the first US city to show a case of agglomeration.
3月初，美国已有16个州出现100余名确诊病例，并已出现死亡病例，不止是密切关注疫情发展的华人医生们，美国本土医生也开始意识到疫情的严重性。
In early March, there were more than 100 confirmed cases in 16 states in the United States, and deaths have occurred, not only among Chinese doctors closely following the epidemic, but also among doctors in the United States.
仅半个月之后，在会议当天，全美确诊人数暴涨：已有2240例确诊病例。
Just half a month later, on the day of the meeting, the number of confirmed cases jumped across the country: 2,240 were confirmed.
不仅西雅图医院的医生们，全美国的医院都有迫切学习中国经验的愿望，会议报名人数激增。
Not only Seattle's doctors, but hospitals across the country are eager to learn from China's experience, and the number of attendees has soared.
3月13日，华盛顿州、纽约州和加州，是确诊人数最多的三个州，确诊人数分别为551、427和306例——这三个州，也是参与3月13日会议医生最多的州。
On March 13, Washington, New York and California, the three states with the highest number of confirmed cases -- 551, 427 and 306, respectively -- were also the states with the largest number of doctors attending the March 13 conference.
近两个小时的交流会的内容，涉及新冠肺炎疫情的多个方面，包括诊断、ICU重症患者的治疗、医生的自我防护、抗病毒药物的使用、疫情期间的医院管理等。
The two-hour session covered various aspects of the outbreak, including diagnosis, treatment of severe ICU patients, self-protection by doctors, use of antiviral drugs, and hospital management during the outbreak.
会议结束后，主办方收到数百个感谢信息，参会者之一Bill Frist ，医生出身的他是上一任美国参议院多数党领袖、前参议院医疗委员会主席，他的家族拥有美国最大的医疗系统之一：HCA Healthcare。
After the meeting, organizers received hundreds of thanks, including Bill Frist, a former Senate majority leader and former chairman of the Senate Medical Committee, whose family owns one of the largest health care systems in the United States: HCA Healthcare.
他在自己的博客上写了一段充满热情的文字，大意是：我和来自中国一线的、世界上研究新冠病毒最权威的三名专家，还有美国235位医院的医生、领导者们进行了90分钟的交流，他们将已了解的知识传授给我们，这些他们了解而我们不了解的知识，如果能够尽快应用，将挽救全美国人的生命。
He wrote enthusiastically on his blog to the effect that I and three leading experts from China who have studied the world's most authoritative source of the new crown virus and 235 American doctors and leaders spent 90 minutes communicating what they know and what we do not know that, if applied quickly, will save the lives of all Americans.
新冠肺炎幸存者和死亡患者的区别华盛顿州是美国新冠疫情最为严重的州之一，而西雅图更是华盛顿州疫情最严重的地区。
The Difference Between Survivors of New Crown Pneumonia and Deaths Washington state has one of the worst new crown states in the United States, and Seattle has the worst outbreak in Washington state.
3月1日，美国新冠病毒肺炎第一例死亡病例出现在西雅图，一家老年护理中心出现聚集性病例，3月7日导致9名老人死亡——成为美国死亡病例最多的城市。
Seattle on March 1 saw the first death from Newcastle disease pneumonia, a case of agglomeration at a geriatric care center that killed nine elderly people on March 7 - making it the deadliest city in the United States.
美国华盛顿大学研究新冠病毒疫情的专家Trevor Bedford在接受美国媒体采访时表示：“3月1日的西雅图，就是1月1日时的武汉”。
"Seattle, March 1, is Wuhan on January 1," Trevor Bedford, an expert on the New Crown Virus outbreak at the University of Washington, told US media.
西雅图一共有八家医院的专家参与这次会议，包括最知名的癌症治疗联盟（SCCA）多名医生参与了此次会议。
Experts from eight hospitals in Seattle took part in the meeting, including doctors from the most prominent cancer treatment consortium (SCCA).
死亡病例的逐渐增多，他们最关注的问题包括：哪类患者会转为危重症病人？哪些病人会幸存?哪些会死亡？区分他们的临床特征是什么？这也是美国其他各州医生最关注的问题。
The main concerns of the growing number of deaths include: What types of patients will become critically ill, which patients will survive, which will die, and what will distinguish their clinical features? This is also a major concern for doctors in other states of the United States.
来自中日友好医院的曹彬，是中国呼吸系统感染领域的顶级专家。
Cao Bin from China-Japan Friendship Hospital is the top expert in respiratory system infection in China.
他也是第一批国家医疗队派遣到武汉的专家，从2019年12月31日开始，一直在金银潭医院参与病人救治和研究工作。
He is also the first national medical team sent to Wuhan experts, from December 31, 2019, has been involved in the gold and silver pool hospital treatment and research work.
曹彬团队1月24日发表在《柳叶刀》上的第一篇文章，描述了新冠病毒的临床特征，截至目前，这篇论文已经被下载了近100万次。
The first article by Cao Bin's team, published in The Lancet on January 24, describes the clinical features of the new crown virus, which has been downloaded nearly a million times so far.
随着时间的推进，武汉一线的医生们逐渐观测到了新冠肺炎病人的发病全程，3月10日，曹彬团队在《柳叶刀》上发表的第二篇论文，描述了在新冠肺炎发病早期就能预测患者不良预后的3个临床特征，这篇论文在很短时间内成为有史以来《柳叶刀》点击下载量最多的文章之一。
As time went on, doctors along the Wuhan line gradually observed the onset of pneumonia, and Cao Bin's team's second paper, published in The Lancet on March 10, describes three clinical features that predict poor prognosis in patients with early onset of new crown pneumonia.
上述的不良预后3个临床特征包括：年龄较大，序贯器官衰竭估计评分（SOFA）高（这是全身炎症反应综合症和脓毒症的标准），以及D-二聚体水平升高（大于1μg/mL，这提示血液高凝状态或血栓形成的可能）。
The 3 clinical features of the adverse prognosis include: older age, high SORF (standard for systemic inflammatory response syndrome and sepsis), and elevated D-dimer levels (> 1 mg / mL, suggesting a risk of hypercoagulation or thrombosis).
这些特征，有助于帮助临床医生早期快速识别预后不良的患者。
These features can help clinicians identify patients with poor prognosis early and quickly.
同时动态检测淋巴细胞、铁蛋白、白介素6、肌钙蛋白及乳酸脱氢酶等可帮助临床医生在患者住院期间尽早发现有预后不良风险的患者。
Meanwhile, dynamic detection of lymphocytes, ferritin, interleukin 6, troponin and lactate dehydrogenase can help clinicians identify patients at risk of adverse outcomes as early as possible during hospitalization.
在过去一个月内，包括美国总统特朗普的一些人在内，总是将新冠病毒感染和流感比较，认为不过是“一场大规模的流感。
In the past month, some people, including US President Trump, have always compared the new crown virus infection to the flu as "a massive flu."
”曹彬反对这种说法，他的团队已研究流感多年，他发现，流感的肺部炎症主要是由淋巴细胞引起的，但在新冠病毒侵袭的肺部，却很少有淋巴细胞，“难以想象存在那么多病毒”。
Cao Bin, whose team has studied flu for years, found that inflammation in the lungs is caused mainly by lymphocytes, but few lymphocytes exist in the lungs hit by the virus, "and it is hard to imagine there being so many viruses."
他认为，抗病毒治疗是改善新冠病毒肺炎病人预后最重要的手段。
He believes that antiviral therapy is the most important way to improve the prognosis of patients with Newcomovirus pneumonia.
结合临床观察和研究，曹彬团队还发现新冠病毒是一种“非常危险”的病毒，它在重症COVID-19患者体内的中位存活时间长达20天，比流感病毒长得多。
Combined with clinical observations and research, Cao's team also found that the new cap virus is a "very dangerous" virus, with a median survival of up to 20 days in patients with severe COVID-19, much longer than the flu virus.
更可怕的是，这种病毒会对危重症病人的多个器官带来损害。
Worse, the virus can cause damage to more than one organ in a critically ill patient.
对死亡新冠病人的尸检及一线医生的观察发现，危重症病人常伴随多种并发症，在肺炎之外，还有严重的心脏损伤、肾脏损伤等其它器官的损伤。
The autopsy of the dead crowns and the observation of the first-line physician revealed that the patients were often accompanied by multiple complications, in addition to pneumonia, serious heart damage, kidney damage and other organ damage.
其中，心脏方面的并发症是新冠病毒肺炎常见的并发症，曹彬团队治疗的几例患者即死于心脏骤停和心脏并发症。
Among them, cardiac complications were common complications of Newcomovirus pneumonia, and several of those treated by Cao Bin's team died of cardiac arrest and cardiac complications.
细胞因子风暴是重症COID-19患者另一特点，这是人体免疫反应失调的一种表现，即免疫系统对所有细胞不分敌我地进行攻击，最终导致患者死亡。
Cytokine storms are another characteristic of patients with severe COID-19, a symptom of a dysfunctional immune system that attacks all cells regardless of their foe, ultimately leading to the death of the patient.
淋巴细胞减少，是提示细胞因子风暴可能发生的一种表现，对于死亡的危重症患者，他们的淋巴细胞计数持续低水平；但对于幸存者，伴随他们的康复，淋巴细胞的计数会逐渐增加。
Lymphocyte depletion is a possible sign of cytokine storms, where lymphocyte counts remain low in critically ill patients who die; however, for survivors, the lymphocyte count increases gradually as they recover.
在会议上，曹彬认为，新冠肺炎病毒侵入肺部是该疾病发展的第一步。
At the meeting, Cao Bin believed that the new crown pneumonia virus invades the lungs is the first step in the development of the disease.
继而他解释了病毒为何导致危重症患者多种并发症：对于新冠病毒的轻度感染，一般人体内的两种细胞能够克服病毒的侵袭；但如果患者（即病毒的宿主）是免疫力低下的人群或高龄人群，亦或当病毒入侵量很大时，这两种细胞就无法控制病毒，但会产生大量细胞因子造成损伤。
He went on to explain why the virus causes multiple complications in critically ill patients: two cells in the human body can overcome viral attack for mildly infected new canopy viruses; but if the patient (the host of the virus) is an immune or advanced age group, or when the virus invades in large quantities, the two cells cannot control the virus but produce large amounts of cytokines that cause damage.
随后病毒开始入血并在全身肆虐，并进一步造成严重的细胞因子风暴，造成多器官损伤。
The virus then began to enter the bloodstream and wreak havoc throughout the body, further causing severe cytokine storms and multiple organ damage.
病毒还会破坏淋巴细胞，受损的淋巴细胞和血脂、纤维蛋白结合时，会引起咳嗽；同时，由于血管内皮受损，血管内形成血栓，造成心脏、肝脏、肾脏等其它器官损害。
The virus also destroys lymphocytes and can cause coughing when damaged lymphocytes combine with lipids and fibrin. At the same time, blood clots form in the blood vessels, causing damage to the heart, liver, kidneys and other organs as a result of vascular endothelial damage.
曹彬建议，对重度新冠肺炎患者使用降低血栓形成的抗凝治疗。
Cao Bin suggested using anticoagulant therapy to reduce thrombosis in patients with severe new crown pneumonia.
同时，尽早使用有效的抗病毒药物等措施恢复免疫反应以及支持治疗，对改善患者的预后非常重要。
At the same time, the early use of effective antiviral drugs and other measures to restore immune response and support treatment is important to improve the prognosis of patients.
如何治疗危重症患者？3月13日，在美国的新冠病毒肺炎死亡病例已达54例，他们都是危重症病人患者。
How to treat critically ill patients The death toll from Newcastle virus pneumonia in the United States reached 54 on March 13, all of them critically ill.
如何在临床细节上治疗危重症患者，成为美国医生急于了解的关键问题。
How to treat critically ill patients in clinical details has become a key issue that American doctors are eager to understand.
出席会议的另外一位专家是武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇。
Another expert attending the meeting was Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital.
他从1月6日接收第一个新冠病人开始，在ICU病房里忙碌了两个多月。
He has been busy in the ICU ward for more than two months, starting with his first new crown patient on January 6.
中南医院在这次新冠救治过程中，成功率明显较高，病人死亡率低。
In this new crown treatment process, the success rate is higher and the mortality rate of patients is low.
到目前为止，彭志勇估算，中南医院ICU死亡率目前在20%左右，低于平均水平。
So far, Peng Zhiyong estimates that the death rate of ICU in the south-central hospital is currently around 20%, below average.
他在一线治疗危重症病人的经验，成为这场中美会议交流的重要主题。
His experience in first-line treatment of critically ill patients has become an important theme of the China-US conference.
彭志勇所在的中南医院2月7日收治的第二批50名病人，是从武汉其它医院和ICU转入的，病情都非常严重。
The second batch of 50 patients admitted to Peng Zhiyong's Zhongnan Hospital on Feb. 7 was transferred from other Wuhan hospitals and ICU.
几乎94%的患者出现ARDS（急性呼吸窘迫综合症），超过60%的病人有心脏问题，40%伴有休克，20%伴有AKI(急性肾损伤)。
Almost 94 per cent of patients had ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome), more than 60 per cent had heart problems, 40 per cent had shock and 20 per cent had AKI (acute kidney injury).
所有的病人都有严重的肺损伤，都需要无创和有创通气（插管）。
All patients have severe lung damage and require noninvasive and invasive ventilation (intubation).
其中，只有28%的病人从无创通气中康复，72%的病人需要有创机械通气（即有创插管），在这些使用有创插管的病人中，又有一半的病人改用ECMO人工肺。
Of these patients, only 28 per cent recovered from non-invasive ventilation, 72 per cent required invasive mechanical ventilation (that is, invasive intubation), and half of the patients who used invasive intubation switched to ECMO artificial lungs.
机械通气很可能引起继发性的肺损伤，对有创和无创通气病人进行“肺保护”，成为ICU重症监护室医生的重要任务。
Mechanical ventilation is likely to cause secondary lung injury, wound and non-invasive ventilation patients "lung protection," become ICU intensive care unit doctor's important task.
这些病人上呼吸机后，需要医生保持持续观察，“不断地评估模式和参数”，包括肺顺应性以及驱动压，不断调整，以选择最佳的通行模式。
These patients require constant observation by a physician after they are placed on a ventilator, "constantly assessing the pattern and parameters," including lung compliance and driving pressure, and constantly adjusting to the best prevailing pattern.
彭志勇的一线经验细致入微，包含测量不同的病毒在不同类型病房中的变化。
Peng Zhiyong's first line of experience is nuanced and involves measuring the changes of different viruses in different types of wards.
他曾经负责两个ICU病房，一个ICU是负压环境，另一个ICU只有开窗的条件。
He used to be in charge of two ICU wards, one ICU is a negative pressure environment and the other ICU has only the condition of opening windows.
在病毒监测过程中，他发现，如果给病人采用经鼻高流量（一种无创呼吸机），在开窗的房间内的呼吸机旁，会监测到病毒，这对病人和医护人员都不安全。
In monitoring the virus, he found that if patients were given a high nasal discharge (a non-invasive ventilator), the virus would be detected next to a respirator in a window-opening room, which would not be safe for patients or health-care workers.
他建议美国同行，“最好在有负压环境的ICU内使用经鼻高流量”。
He advised his US counterpart, "It is best to use high nasal flow in ICUs with negative pressure."
2月6日开始进入中南医院重症监护室的那批危重患者，最终有17个病人用上ECMO，现在已有6名病人成功撤下ECMO。
The critical group of patients who entered the intensive care unit of the Central South Hospital on 6 February ended up with ECMO for 17 patients, and six patients have now been successfully evacuated.
病人在什么情况下，可以使用无创通气；何种情况下，不得不换有创通气，什么时候需要将有创通气换成ECMO，彭志勇分享了十分具体的可测量参数。
In what circumstances a patient can use noninvasive ventilation, in what circumstances a invasive ventilation has to be replaced, and when a invasive ventilation needs to be replaced by ECMO, Pang Zhiyong shared very specific measurable parameters.
△一名有心肌梗塞并发症的新冠肺炎患者刚撤下ECMO，医生们兴奋合影（曹彬供图）大城市防疫战中的确诊经验出席这次中美交流会议的还有美国CDC的十几名官员，他们在CDC的会议室内远程参与了这场视频会议。
2007-9-25 21: 48 A new crowbar pneumonia patient with myocardial infarction has just removed ECMO. Doctors are excited to take a group photo of the confirmed experience in epidemic prevention in a big city.
来自上海复旦大学华山医院感染科主任张文宏的演讲，是这些CDC官员最关心的话题。
Zhang Wenhong, director of infection department at Fudan University in Shanghai, is the topic of most concern to these CDC officials.
他交流的主题是上海这样的大城市如何进行疫情防控。
He talked about how big cities like Shanghai can prevent and control epidemics.
3000万人口的超级城市上海，几乎和美国同一时间，在1月20日发现了第一个新冠病人。
Shanghai, a city of 30 million people, spotted its first new crown patient on January 20, almost at the same time as the United States.
但当时上海的防疫压力远超大洋彼岸的美国，1月23日武汉封城后，数以万计的武汉人进入上海。
But then Shanghai's epidemic prevention pressure far exceeded the United States on the other side of the ocean, January 23 Wuhan after the closure of the city, tens of thousands of people into Shanghai.
上海也是中国除武汉之外所有城市中疫情防控压力最大的城市。
Shanghai is also the most stressed city for disease prevention and control in all Chinese cities except Wuhan.
《柳叶刀》曾发表了一篇论文，预测上海可能有80万人感染，即便是较为保守的预测，也预言上海至少有8万人感染。
The Lancet has published a paper predicting that 800,000 people may be infected in Shanghai, and even the more conservative forecasts predict at least 80,000 people in the city.
但在上海政府最高水平的防疫战指挥之下，到3月中旬，上海只有350余例确诊病例，危重症病例只有5个，死亡人数3个。
However, under the highest level of anti-epidemic command of the Shanghai government, by mid-March there were only 350 confirmed cases in Shanghai, with only 5 cases of critical cases and 3 deaths.
而同期的美国，到3月中旬，确诊病例已达两千余例，死亡病例50多个。
In the United States over the same period, more than 2,000 cases and more than 50 deaths had been diagnosed by mid-March.
张文宏谈到，上海的管控之所以成功，最重要的是在早期控制住了来自武汉的输入性病例，阻止了新冠病毒在社区内的传播。
Zhang said the most important reason for the success of controls in Shanghai was the early containment of imported cases from Wuhan, which prevented the spread of the virus in the community.
他继而以上海市综合性医院华山医院为例，介绍了医院从发热门诊到留观病房，确诊病例再转到集中隔离点救治的流程，介绍了上海市通过联防联控以及通过加快诊断和迅速启动隔离的方法，阻止了新冠病毒在人群和医院内的传播。
Taking Huashan Hospital of Shanghai General Hospital as an example, he introduced the process of the hospital from the fever clinic to the visiting ward, the confirmed cases were transferred to the centralized seclusion, and introduced the way that Shanghai had prevented the spread of the new crown virus in the population and in the hospital by accelerating the diagnosis and prompt initiation of isolation.
华山医院是一家拥有2000张床位的综合性三甲医院。
Huashan Hospital is a 2, 000-bed comprehensive triple-A hospital.
对疑似病例的快速检测、确诊和快速收治，是减少新冠肺炎病人在社区内传播机会的重要举措。
Rapid detection, diagnosis and rapid treatment of suspected cases are important initiatives to reduce transmission opportunities within the community for patients with new crown pneumonia.
疑似病例的判别，在早期的评估中，病人符合一个流行病学标准（来自武汉）和一个临床相关症状，只要符合这两个标准，将被送进隔离病房，疾控中心的工作人员将对病人做咽拭子取样，进行核酸检测，并做流行病调查。
Identification of suspected cases. In the early assessment, the patient met an epidemiological standard (from Wuhan) and a clinically relevant symptom, and as long as both criteria were met, the patient would be placed in an isolation ward and CDC staff would take swabs from the patient, conduct nucleic acid tests and conduct epidemiological investigations.
武汉疫情爆发的前车之鉴是将新冠病毒的核酸检测作为唯一的确诊标准，核酸检测试剂的短缺，以及只有60%左右的阳性率，使得大量新冠病人长时间难以确诊。
The Wuhan outbreak followed the example of the Nucleic Acid Testing (Nucleic Acid Testing) as the only diagnostic criteria, the shortage of nucleic acid detection reagents and the fact that only about 60 per cent of cases are positive, making it difficult for a large number of new crown patients to be diagnosed for a long time.
病人得不到治疗病情加重的同时，也成为移动传染源，导致新冠病毒在社区内传播加速。
While patients do not receive treatment for the exacerbation of their condition, they also become a source of mobile infection, resulting in accelerated transmission of the new crown virus in the community.
张文宏介绍，在新冠病毒确诊的过程中，华山医院动用了几乎所有资源。
Zhang Wenhong said that in the course of the diagnosis of the new crown virus, Huashan Hospital used almost all the resources.
两次核酸检测、肺部CT只是最基本的检测，这是因为两种检测都有其局限性：核酸检测阳性率有限；在非常轻微的病例中，肺部CT的扫描特征和其它疾病的区别并不明显。
Two nucleic acid tests and pulmonary CT are only the most basic tests, because both tests have limitations: the positive rate of nucleic acid testing is limited; and in very minor cases, the difference between the CT features of the lung and other diseases is not obvious.
如果病人新冠病毒的核酸检测是阴性，但其它症状依然显示高度疑似，那么华山医院会对患者进行二代测序（NGS），或者其他分子生物学技术进行检测（核酸检测的总体敏感性随着检测次数的增多而提高），以保证结果的准确性。
If the patient's Nucleotide test is negative, but other symptoms remain highly suspected, the Huashan Hospital tests patients for second-generation sequencing (NGS), or other molecular biology techniques (the overall sensitivity of nucleic acid testing increases with the number of tests) to ensure accuracy of results.
此外，还会对病人做其它病原体的核酸检测。
In addition, patients will be tested for other pathogens nucleic acid.
一些病人，在核酸检测中，如果流感检测呈阳性，也不能排除新冠病毒感染。
Some patients, tested for nucleic acids, cannot rule out a new crown virus infection if they test positive for the flu.
在华山医院20个确诊病例中，只有9个病例是新冠病毒单一感染的，其它11个病例包含多种流感和鼻病毒等其它病原体的共感染。
Of the 20 confirmed cases at Huashan Hospital, only 9 were single cases of the new crown virus, while the other 11 cases contained co-infections of multiple influenza and other pathogens, such as rhinovirus.
确诊之后，医院将尽快收治患者入院，缩短他们在医院外的停留时间，以防止进一步的本地传播。
Once diagnosed, the hospital will admit patients as soon as possible and shorten their stay outside the hospital in order to prevent further local transmission.
张文宏介绍，上海的确诊病例从症状开始到住院的平均时间为5.5天——较快的入院速度是减少社区传播的重要条件。
Zhang said the average length of time from the onset of symptoms to hospitalization in Shanghai was 5.5 days - a faster rate of admission was an important factor in reducing community transmission.
这场三位中国一线医生的经验交流会持续了一个半小时，最高在线人数近三百人。
The experience-sharing session between the three leading Chinese doctors lasted an hour and a half, with the highest number of people online close to 300.
当天下午，美国总统特朗普宣布美国进入紧急状态，以应对在美国本土发展迅速的新冠疫情——这是美国在应对新冠疫情中一个里程碑式的转变。
That afternoon, US President Donald Trump declared a state of emergency in response to the fast-growing New Crown epidemic in the United States - a landmark shift in America's response to the new crown.
无疑，这场民间组织的中美交流会议影响深远，参会的美国医疗界人士、政策制定者在会议结束后，继续向三位中国一线的抗疫专家提问，征集的问题有几十个。
There is no doubt that this far-reaching CSO China-US exchange meeting, attended by American medical practitioners and policy makers, continued to ask questions from three leading Chinese anti-epidemic experts, with dozens of questions.
此外，会议内容也被发送至美国经济委员会及美国公共政策制定的相关部门，“中国经验”很可能在下一步影响美国抗击新冠肺炎病毒的决策。
Moreover, the content of the meeting was sent to the US Economic Commission and US public-policy-making authorities, and the "Chinese experience" is likely to shape America's decision to fight the virus in the next step.
王晨|撰稿微信号：2174127季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua致读者：“八点健闻”公众号将于4月11日恢复更新。
Writing microsignal: 2174 & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
在此之前，我们在“八点健闻Plus”发表报道。
Before that, we published a report at Eight Point Health Plus.
敬请关注。
Attention, please.
我们尊重原创版权，未经授权请勿转载。
We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
郑琪|授权转载微信号：1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922反馈交流，加入核心读者群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
CHENG Chi-chi & # 124; Authorize the Reproduction of Microsignals: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 feedback exchange, join the core readership, sweep code to let friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
张文宏曹彬彭志勇，向美国顶级医疗专家、政界人士分享抗疫经验。
Zhang Wenhong Cao Bin Peng Zhiyong, to the United States top medical experts, politicians to share anti-epidemic experience.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "张文宏曹彬彭志勇，向美国顶级医疗专家、政界人士分享抗疫经验";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Zhang Wenhong, PANG Zhiyong, who shared with top U.S. medical experts and politicians AT & P's disease experience;;
var msg_desc = "要帮助全人类战胜新冠病毒，国际合作必不可少";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; to help humanity defeat the new crown virus.
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
