拥抱方舱医院的常态化，后疫情时代需要未雨绸缪。
Embrace the normality of the cabin hospital, and the post-epidemic era requires forethought.
特约作者张萌。
Invited author Meng Zhang.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
之前服务于方舱医院的GE医疗“诺亚一号”一体式CT检查室，如今就在越来越多的医院落地。
The one-piece GE medical "Noah 1" CT examination room, which previously served the cabin hospital, is now landing in an increasing number of hospitals.
方舱医院的模式，也在湖北以外的更多省份开始走向常态化，为预防型公共卫生防疫体系的建设添砖加瓦。
The model of Fang Cao Hospital also began to normalize in more provinces outside Hubei, adding bricks and mortar to the construction of preventive public health and epidemic prevention system.
作为团队里年龄最小的光头护士，国文霞在沌口方舱医院休舱后准备为伙伴们跳一段民族舞。
As the youngest skinhead nurse on the team, Guowen Xia is going to perform a folk dance for her friends after the cabin in chaos.
殊不知，同事无意间拍摄下来的舞蹈片段，却在几天内火遍全网。
Do not know, colleagues inadvertently shot down the dance segment, but in a few days fire all over the network.
彼时，休舱后的医护人员正沉浸在喜悦之中，再经过一段时间的隔离观察，他们就可以返回家乡了。
At the time, the cabin crews were in a state of euphoria, and after a period of isolated observation, they could return home.
3月18日下午四点，完成使命的国文霞随内蒙古驰援湖北医疗团队的同批队友们平安抵达鄂尔多斯市。
March 18 4: 00 p.m., the completion of the mission Guofenxia with Inner Mongolia Hubei medical team teammates arrived safely in Ordos city.
她说，自己最大的愿望就是在疫情结束后，能带着爸妈去海南玩几天。
She said her greatest wish was to take her parents to Hainan for a few days after the outbreak.
自3月17日开始，承担方舱医院任务的援鄂医疗队陆续撤离。
Since March 17, the medical team in Hubei, which is responsible for the mission of the cabin hospital, has been withdrawing.
从2月5日开始接收患者，直至3月10日全部休舱，武汉16家方舱医院累计收治了12000多位新冠肺炎患者。
From February 5 to February 5 to accept patients, until March 10, all closed, Wuhan 16 cabin hospitals have admitted more than 12,000 patients with new crown pneumonia.
在武汉的疫情防控中，方舱医院起到的作用显而易见。
In Wuhan's epidemic prevention and control, the role played by the Fang cabin hospital is obvious.
以至于方舱医院全部休舱之后，有人提出了这样的假设：方舱医院提早10天建立，可以减少多少交叉感染和患者死亡？从疫情爆发初期“医疗挤兑”的群体焦虑，到相对有序地应对，中间有一个很重要的差别，就是方舱医院的开放。
So much so that after the cabin hospital was shut down, the hypothesis was made: how many cross-infections and patient deaths could be reduced if the cockpit hospital was built 10 days earlier? From the anxiety of the "medical run" in the early stages of the outbreak to a relatively orderly response, there was an important difference: the opening of the cabin hospital.
在中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院北京协和医学院院校长王辰看来，像这种能够迅速提供大容量收治，短时间、低成本建设起来的方舱医院，在将来设计国家应急体系乃至世界应急体系时，都有一定借鉴意义。
Wang Chen, Vice-President of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and President of the Beijing Concorde Medical School of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, thinks that this kind of hospital, which can provide high-capacity, short-term and low-cost construction, can be used for reference in the future design of national emergency system and even the world emergency system.
他提到，方舱医院可转化为国家常态备急方案。
He mentioned that the cabin hospital could be converted into a national emergency preparedness programme.
由于方舱医院的临时性和空间特殊性，普通医院的设备（尤其是大型专用设备）短时间内难以移植，移动、便携、操作快速简便的医疗设备，价值开始凸显。
Due to the temporary and space particularity of the Fang Cao Hospital, the equipment (especially the large special equipment) of the general hospital is difficult to transplant for a short time.
为抗击疫情紧急研发的一些移动式高端医疗设备，在方舱医院中经过实践检验之后，甚至拓展到更多的使用场景。
Some mobile high-end medical devices developed urgently to fight the epidemic have been tested in the cabin hospital and even expanded to more use scenarios.
之前服务于方舱医院的GE医疗“诺亚一号”一体式CT检查室，如今就在越来越多的医院落地。
The one-piece GE medical "Noah 1" CT examination room, which previously served the cabin hospital, is now landing in an increasing number of hospitals.
方舱医院的模式，也在湖北以外的更多省份开始走向常态化，为预防型公共卫生防疫体系的建设添砖加瓦。
The model of Fang Cao Hospital also began to normalize in more provinces outside Hubei, adding bricks and mortar to the construction of preventive public health and epidemic prevention system.
非疫情核心区首套移动一体式CT检查室落地佛山尽管国内疫情的高峰已过，新冠肺炎的“全球大流行”却致使输入病例不断出现。
The first mobile one-piece CT scan chamber in the non-epidemic core area landed in Foshan. Although the peak of the epidemic in China has passed, the "global pandemic" of New Crown Pneumonia has led to a steady flow of imported cases.
目前，海外新冠肺炎累计确诊患者已超过十万，在举全国之力渡过疫情高峰期后，中国接下来则要严防海外输入病例扩散的风险，抗击疫情丝毫不能放松。
Now that more than 100,000 people have been diagnosed with pneumonia overseas, China will continue to take precautions against the risk of the spread of imported cases overseas after the peak of the epidemic is over.
为保证发热门诊发热患者胸部CT筛查工作需要，强化疫情防控和临床诊疗工作，避免漏诊导致疫情蔓延，近日，广东省佛山市中医院在发热门诊前快速安装了一台GE的“诺亚1号”一体式CT检查室，并已经投入使用。
In order to ensure the need of CT screening for fever patients in the fever clinic, strengthen the prevention and control of the disease and strengthen clinical diagnosis and treatment so as to avoid the spread of the disease, the Foshan Hospital of Guangdong Province recently installed a GE "Noah 1" CT examination room in front of the fever clinic and put it into use.
这是全国非疫情核心区域投入使用的首个满足发热门诊与疫时隔离区影像检查需求的“诺亚一号”落地案例，更是在保障疫情防控的基础上，开始以主动预防型思维升级发热门诊的典型代表。
This is the first case of Noah 1 that has been put into use in the non-epidemic core area to meet the need of image inspection in the fever clinic and epidemic area.
△广东省佛山市中医院正式引入“诺亚1号”一体式CT检查室对此，广东省佛山市中医院相关负责人表示，“虽然国内疫情高峰已过，但我们仍不能有丝毫大意，由于佛山是制造业大市，随着复工复产人员的增多，发热病人胸部CT筛查的需求量也越来越大，我们希望利用多种途径和技术，进行有效排查，严把防控关，以防疫情死灰复燃，保障广大市民的生命安全。
"Although the peak of the epidemic is over, we can't be negligent. As Foshan is a big manufacturing city, the demand for CT screening of patients with fever is increasing.
”在应对当下疫情的同时，引入移动一体式CT检查室也是为了升级医疗基础设施、规范疾病诊疗流程，从而为建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系打好基础。
In response to the current epidemic, the introduction of mobile one-piece CT examination rooms is also intended to upgrade medical infrastructure and regulate the flow of disease diagnosis and treatment, thus laying the foundation for a preventive public health and epidemic prevention system.
据佛山市中医院党委委员、副院长徐志强介绍，目前，该院正在建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系的路上先行先试。
The hospital is trying to build a preventive public health and epidemic prevention system, according to Xu Zhiqiang, a member of the Communist Party committee and vice-president of Foshan Hospital.
他提到，“对于我们长期的、灵活和快速应对公共卫生难题来讲，这样的医疗基础设施价值非常大。
"The health infrastructure is very valuable for our long-term, flexible and rapid response to public health challenges," he said.
”抗击疫情时能“披甲上阵”，日常诊疗中能增强医疗服务补给，可谓“召之即来，来之能战“的移动一体式CT检查室，正是佛山市中医院建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系的重要一步。
The mobile one-piece CT examination room is an important step in building a preventive public health and epidemic prevention system in the Chinese Hospital of Foshan.
科技助力，弥补基层公卫体系短板近几年，我国医改的重点之一是推行“分级诊疗”，而“强基层”是落实“分级诊疗”的关键。
In recent years, one of the key points of medical reform in China is to carry out "graded diagnosis and treatment," and "strong grass-roots" is the key to the implementation of "graded diagnosis and treatment."
新冠疫情期间，基层医疗暴露出一些短板。
During the New Crown Epidemic, some shortcomings were revealed in primary care.
一方面，基层的各方面基础医疗设备、诊治能力亟需进一步加强；另一方面，各地单独隔离院区不足和县级医院发热门诊建设不足的问题也较为突出。
On the one hand, the basic medical equipment, diagnosis and treatment capacity at the grass-roots level need to be further strengthened; on the other hand, the shortage of separate wards and the inadequate construction of fever clinics in county hospitals are also more acute.
本次疫情爆发后，除武汉紧急建设了火神山、雷神山医院和16个方舱医院外，全国已有20多个省近60家医院建设了单独隔离院区，大的院区，如小汤山、深圳三院是千床级，其他的都是几十到几百床位不等。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, in addition to Wuhan emergency construction of the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan hospital and 16 square cabin hospitals, nearly 60 hospitals in more than 20 provinces have built separate hospital areas, large courtyard areas such as Xiaotangshan, Shenzhen hospital are thousands of beds, others are dozens to hundreds of beds.
这些大大小小的医疗单位，为缓解疫情期间的隔离救治压力提供了保障。
These large and small medical units, to ease the epidemic during the isolation of the pressure to provide treatment.
专家认为，未来几年，发热门诊、单独隔离院区的建设，将是基层公共卫生体系建设的重要组成部分。
Experts believe that in the next few years, fever clinic, the construction of isolated courtyard, will be an important part of the basic public health system.
与此同时，这些医疗机构将会产生大量的医疗设备和耗材需求，如额温枪、小型生化/免疫检测仪、CT、呼吸机、便携超声、血球仪、传染防护耗材等，相关医疗设备市场将进一步扩容。
At the same time, these medical institutions will generate a large demand for medical equipment and consumables, such as frontal temperature guns, small biochemical / immunological detectors, CT, respirators, portable ultrasound, blood corpuscles, infectious protection consumables, etc. The market for related medical equipment will be further expanded.
值得注意的是，与额温枪等小型的医疗设备不同，CT等大型设备价格不菲，搭建过程也可谓费时费力。
It is worth noting that, unlike small medical devices such as frontline guns, large equipment such as CT is expensive and time-consuming to build.
据GE医疗产品经理刘秋实介绍，一般情况下，医院在购买CT后，还要配套做好CT室的装修，包括照明、空调、屏蔽设置等，需要投入很多的人力物力。
According to GE medical products manager Liu Qiushi, in general, hospitals in the purchase of CT, but also equipped with CT room decoration, including lighting, air conditioning, shielding settings, and so on, need to invest a lot of human and material resources.
但面对突发公卫事件，时间和物资都无比紧缺，医院无法在短时间内按照传统的流程完成CT室的搭建。
But in the face of the public health emergency, time and supplies are extremely scarce, the hospital can not in a short time in accordance with traditional procedures to complete the construction of the CT room.
如果为每一个隔离区和发热门诊提前搭建好CT室，又很容易造成医疗资源的浪费。
It is easy to waste medical resources if CT rooms are constructed in advance for each isolation area and fever clinic.
在这种情况下，该如何满足突发的CT需求呢？移动一体式CT检查室或是一个性价比较高的解决方案。
In this case, how to meet the emergency CT needs? Moving a one-piece CT examination room or a cost-effective solution.
刘秋实提到，“诺亚1号”一体式CT检查室虽然是在此次疫情期间紧急研发出来的，但是这种交钥匙型CT影像检查解决方案，不受场地限制，可以快速构建于感染楼下或发热门诊旁，做到“即到即扫”。
Although the Noah-1 CT examination room was developed on an emergency basis during the outbreak, Liu noted that this turnkey CT imaging solution, which is not site-limited, can be built quickly next to infected downstairs or a fever clinic to achieve an "on-the-spot scan."
设备抵达医院后，只需要医生到岗就能开始检查，不需要再额外投入任何人力和物力。
Once the equipment arrives at the hospital, it only requires the presence of a doctor to start the examination, without any additional human and material investment.
疫情结束后，医院还可按新的发展规划，将“诺亚1号”仓体进行移动，更改它的位置。
After the outbreak ended, the hospital was able to move the Noah 1 barn and change its position in accordance with the new development plan.
△“交钥匙”的整合型移动CT产品可以做到“即到即扫”“这样的产品，在县医院这类基层医疗机构配备使用，高效、便捷，还可以根据医院的建设需求做移动，使用上比较灵活。
The "turn-key" integrated mobile CT product can be used in primary medical institutions such as county hospitals. It is efficient, convenient and can be moved according to the needs of hospital construction.
”刘秋实说道。
"said Liu.
据了解，从GE团队接到佛山市中医院的产品需求，到生产运输，再到产品正式投入使用，中间仅仅隔了不到10天的时间。
It is understood that from the GE team received the demand for the products of Foshan TCM Hospital, to production and transportation, and then formally put into use, in the middle of less than 10 days.
这样的速度，是传统CT室远远无法做到的。
Such a speed is far beyond the reach of a traditional CT chamber.
临危受命，装机使用速度远超传统CT室2020年2月19日，国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第六版）》，把影像学检查纳入了诊断的标准之一。
On February 19, 2020, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial Version 6)," which incorporates imaging examination into one of the diagnostic criteria.
在新冠肺炎患者出院标准中，除了临床诊断、体温及核酸检测结果外，CT影像数据也是硬性指标。
In the discharge standard of patients with new crown pneumonia, besides the clinical diagnosis, body temperature and nucleic acid test results, CT imaging data is also a hard index.
一时之间，疫区对于CT的需求激增。
For a while, the need for CT in affected areas surged.
但传统的CT室却无法在短时间内完成搭建。
However, the traditional CT room can not be built in a short time.
2月27日，在湖北省武汉市硚口区武汉体育馆方舱医院里，GE医疗的“诺亚1号”一体式远程方舱CT正式投入使用。
February 27, GE medical "Noah 1" long-range capsule CT officially came into use in Wuhan Gymnasium Fangkang Hospital, Zhengkou District, Wuhan, Hubei Province.
△武汉市硚口区武汉体育馆方舱医院里，“诺亚1号”已经历过实践的检验。
Noah No.1 has been tested in Fang Mo Hospital of Wuhan Zhengkou District Zhengkou District of Wuhan City.
（健闻特约摄影师杜禹甫拍摄）在“诺亚1号”到来后，患者们不用再通过专车分批运送到指定医院检查CT以及取片，CT检查可以在方舱医院内完成，且8秒就可以扫描完毕，单个患者可节省30%的扫描时间，而后专家可远程对片子进行诊断，减少医生和患者的接触。
(Photo by Studio Studio Studio Studio) When Noah 1 arrived, patients no longer had to travel to designated hospitals in batches for CT and biopsies, which could be done in a cabin hospital and scanned in eight seconds, saving 30% of scanning time for a single patient.
此举不仅大大缩短CT检查时间，还降低了交叉感染的可能。
This not only greatly reduces the time of CT examination, but also reduces the possibility of cross-infection.
值得一提的是，“诺亚1号”箱体内配置了天眼功能，可实现病人自行躺床后给病人进行智能定位检查；还能实现检查间和操作间完全隔离，确保医患安全性，防止交叉感染的发生。
It is worth mentioning that Noah 1 is equipped with the function of the eye, which enables the patient to be examined intelligently after lying down in bed. It also enables complete isolation of rooms and operations to ensure the safety of doctors and patients and prevent cross-infection.
相比传统的医生肉眼定位，“诺亚1号”借助3D传感设备、深度算法，让患者做检查时身体器官的定位变得更精准，流程也更简单。
Noah 1 uses 3D sensors and depth algorithms to make the location of the body's organs more precise and simpler than traditional doctor-to-eye positioning.
据GE相关负责人介绍，“诺亚1号”平均每天可为300位患者提供检测服务。
On average, Noah 1 can test 300 patients a day, the GE official said.
极大提升了疫情期间的CT检查效率，缓解了诊断压力。
It greatly improves the efficiency of CT examination and relieves the diagnostic pressure during the epidemic.
后新冠时期的未雨绸缪病毒从来不会消失，而是长期与人共生。
The proactive virus of the post-crowning period never disappeared, but lived with human beings for a long time.
SARS、MERS、埃博拉……每一次疫情爆发，都会带来不小的生命和经济损失。
SARS, MERS, Ebola... each outbreak, there will be no small loss of life and economic loss.
假若下一次疫情袭来，我们有什么办法减少伤亡和损失？工欲善其事，必先利其器。
If the next outbreak strikes, what can we do to reduce the casualties and losses?
在此次新冠疫情期间，方舱医院的建设，为患者的隔离救治分散了不小的压力。
During the new crown outbreak, the construction of the Fang Cathedral Hospital scattered a great deal of pressure for the patient's isolation.
未来，如果有更多的基层医疗机构能够配置用于传染病预防、检测的一些设备，同时提前筹划相应学科的人培养和储备，我国面对突发的公共卫生事件，也势必会更加从容。
In the future, if more primary health-care institutions can be equipped to prevent and detect infectious diseases, and if people are trained and prepared for the corresponding disciplines in advance, China will certainly be more at ease in the face of sudden public health emergencies.
如开篇提到的佛山市中医院，在“诺亚1号”正式入驻后，该移动CT将专人专机，对新冠肺炎疑似病例和有重点地区流行病学史的发热患者，开展胸部CT筛查工作，而普通患者则继续使用原有CT进行检查，由此可大大缓解CT检查排队等候的状况，既保障医院其他医疗救治工作有序开展，又为新冠肺炎综合防控提供强有力的保障。
As mentioned at the beginning of the Foshan Hospital, after the "Noah 1" officially entered the hospital, the mobile CT will be dedicated to the suspected cases of New Crown Pneumonia and fever patients with epidemiological history of priority areas, while ordinary patients will continue to use the original CT examination, which can greatly ease the waiting list of CT examination, not only to ensure the orderly development of other hospital medical treatment, but also to provide a strong guarantee for the comprehensive prevention and control of new crown pneumonia.
待疫情过后，“诺亚1号”又将作为不可或缺的预防型应急储备，在各种重大突发事件、公共卫生事件中继续发挥作用。
When the epidemic is over, Noah 1 will continue to serve as an indispensable emergency reserve for major emergencies and public health events.
医疗设备是建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系的必要组成，但我们要做的远不止于此。
Medical equipment is a necessary component of a preventive public health and epidemic prevention system, but we need to do much more.
此前，经济学家黄奇帆曾公开表示，新冠肺炎疫情爆发固然对我国社会经济造成了损失，但从发展角度，也不失为一个推动改革的重要契机。
Earlier, the economist Huang Qifan has publicly said that the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia has caused losses to China's economy, but from a development perspective, it is also an important opportunity to promote reform.
“像修铁路、高速公路一样，修建中国公共卫生领域的基础设施，政府主导的医疗机构的高质量设备投入就是一个巨大的增量市场，能够极大带动经济的发展。
"Like railway and highway construction, the construction of public health infrastructure in China and the high-quality input of equipment from government-led medical institutions is a huge incremental market that can greatly stimulate economic development."
”在此次抗击疫情的过程中，GE医疗不仅紧急研发出了“诺亚1号”，也针对未来预防型公共卫生体系防疫建设的一些需求，策划了一个持续性的辅助建设计划——诺亚行动（Noah Action，N 计划）。
In the fight against the epidemic, GE has not only urgently developed Noah 1, but has also devised a continuing support program - Operation Noah Action (Plan N) - to address some of the needs of the future preventive public health system.
该计划包含设备技术方案、线上Education+远程培训、发热门诊临床路径建议等一系列内容。
The program includes a range of equipment technology solutions, online education + distance training, clinical route advice for fever clinics, and so on.
目前看来，无论是政府有关部门、专家学者，还是医疗行业人士，都已经开始将目光放得更长远，致力于建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系。
At present, it seems that whether the relevant government departments, experts and scholars, or medical professionals have begun to take a longer-term view of building a preventive public health epidemic prevention system.
或许此次疫情，将成为我国公共卫生应急管理建设大发展的重要节点。
Perhaps this epidemic situation will become an important node in the development of public health emergency management in China.
八点健闻Plus，聚焦健康商业报道。
Eight Keen Hear Plus, Focus on Health Business Report.
商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922。
Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
拥抱方舱医院的常态化，后疫情时代需要未雨绸缪。
Embrace the normality of the cabin hospital, and the post-epidemic era requires forethought.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "拥抱方舱医院的常态化，后疫情时代需要未雨绸缪";。
var msg _ title = & quot; hugged the normalization of cabin hospitals, and needed to anticipate and quot; in the post-epidemic era.
var msg_desc = "医疗设备是建设预防型公共卫生防疫体系的必要组成。
var msg _ desc = & quot; medical equipment was a necessary component of the preventive public health and epidemic prevention system.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
