逃离德黑兰：中国商人见证伊朗疫情大爆发，乘大使馆包机惊险回国。
Flee from Tehran: Chinese businessmen witnessed a major outbreak of the Iranian epidemic and returned home on chartered flights from the embassy.
毛晓琼 季敏华。
Mao Xiaoqiong Ji Minhua.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
伊朗已有17361人确诊，1135人死亡。
There have been 17,361 confirmed cases and 1,135 deaths in Iran.
一位在中国读博士的伊朗留学生认为真实情况可能更严重。
An Iranian student studying for a PhD in China thinks the real situation could be more serious.
中国商人张晓东2月14日去了伊朗，亲眼见证疫情的爆发，亲历了从焦虑到恐惧的过程，后来在大使馆帮助下乘包机回国。
Zhang Xiaodong, a Chinese businessman who went to Iran on February 14, witnessed the outbreak first-hand, experienced the process from anxiety to fear, and then flew home on chartered flights with the help of the embassy.
张晓东在伊朗经商快20年，他认为伊朗疫情之所以这么严重，有很多原因，例如信息不开放、宗教信仰、医疗设备不足、没有戴口罩的文化，普通人也买不起等等。
Zhang, who has been doing business in Iran for nearly 20 years, says there are many reasons why the epidemic is so serious, such as lack of information, religious beliefs, inadequate medical equipment, lack of a culture of wearing masks, and the fact that ordinary people cannot afford to buy them.
张晓东的分析和伊朗留学生的看法，在很多地方都不谋而合。
Zhang Xiaodong's analysis and the views of Iranian students coincide in many places.
根据伊朗卫生部消息，截至3月18日中午，伊朗累计确诊新冠肺炎病例17361例，其中5710例康复，1135例死亡。
As of noon March 18, Iran had confirmed 17,361 cases of new crown pneumonia, including 5,710 cases of convalescence and 1,135 deaths, according to the Iranian Ministry of Health.
无论确诊还是死亡人数，都位居世界第三，仅次于中国和意大利。
Both confirmed cases and deaths rank third in the world, behind China and Italy.
伊朗也是目前已知最多政府官员确诊的国家，包括两位副总统、卫生部副部长、国会议员、最高领袖顾问等要员都被感染。
Iran is also the country with the most government officials known to have been diagnosed, including two vice-presidents, a deputy health minister, a member of parliament, and a Supreme Leader's Adviser.
据《联合早报》报道，伊朗政府至少12位官员死于新冠，另外13人确诊。
According to Lianhe Zaobao, at least 12 Iranian government officials died in the New Crown and 13 others were confirmed.
一位在中国读博士的伊朗留学生告诉我们，他觉得真实情况可能更严重。
An Iranian student studying for a PhD in China told us that he thought the real situation might be more serious.
他在中国生活三年多，亲历了中国的疫情，2月8日回到伊朗，准备和家人共度波斯新年（3月21日），却又遇上伊朗疫情的爆发。
After living in China for more than three years and experiencing an outbreak of the disease in China, he returned to Iran on February 8 to spend the Persian New Year with his family.
他认为伊朗没有在疫情最开始爆发的时候就加强防控工作。
He said Iran did not strengthen prevention and control efforts from the start of the outbreak.
疫情最初是从伊朗最大的宗教城市库姆传播起来的，“清真寺里的阿訇还拒绝政府不要集会的建议，他们说主会拯救我们，但病毒可不管这些，它可以攻击所有人，包括你我，还有阿訇。
Initially spread from Qom, Iran's largest religious city, "the imams in the mosque also rejected the government's proposal not to hold the rally, saying that the Lord would save us, but the virus could ignore it and attack everyone, including you and me, and the Imam."
所以，本来可以有所作为，但是他们没有”。
So something could have been done, but they didn't.
伊朗另一个困境是医疗设备严重不足，在新冠患者的救治上捉襟见肘；公共信息是被筛选过的；民间几乎没有防疫措施，没有口罩文化，而且口罩已经涨到很昂贵的价格，也不太能买到；伊朗经济不太好，很多家庭都是打一天工，挣一天的生活花费，“你让他停工，这是不可想象的”。
Iran's other dilemma is that medical equipment is woefully inadequate, with no access to new crowns; public information is filtered; there is little immunization, there is no mask culture, and masks are already expensive and not readily available; and the Iranian economy is not so good that many families work one day and earn their living expenses.
留学生说，“所有的问题都是连锁反应”。
"All the problems are a chain reaction," said the student.
回伊朗之前的最后一天，他去了北京一家商场，发现那里人已经很少，这说明当地人已经把此事看的很严重了，“但是在伊朗，并不是这样，人们还没有认真对待此事，这非常令人遗憾”。
On the last day before returning to Iran, he went to a mall in Beijing and noticed that there were few people there, which shows that the locals have taken the matter seriously. "But in Iran, it is very regrettable that this is not the case and people have not taken it seriously.
和他所说的这种情况可以印证的是，3月10日，一位伊朗电视台的主持人在节目直播中突然下跪，恳请老百姓们待在家中，尽量不要出门。
As he said, on March 10, a host of Iranian television dropped to his knees during a live broadcast, pleading with the people to stay at home and try not to go out.
Play不过，这位留学生认为伊朗依然还有控制疫情的机会，还有时间可以封城，避免人们在城市之间移动。
But the student believes Iran still has a chance to contain the outbreak and time to close the city to avoid people moving between cities.
“我觉得这是伊朗目前唯一能做的事情了”。
"I think that's the only thing Iran can do right now."
在伊朗经商近20年的中国商人张晓东也同时亲历了中国和伊朗的疫情，他2月14日从深圳出发，几经转折到了德黑兰。
Zhang Xiaodong, a Chinese businessman who has been doing business in Iran for nearly 20 years, has also experienced outbreaks in China and Iran, from Shenzhen to Tehran on February 14.
伊朗疫情爆发后，他曾经两次尝试购买机票回国，但都在起飞当天被告知航班取消。
After the outbreak, he made two attempts to buy a ticket home, but was told the flight was cancelled the day he took off.
他从最初的焦虑不安，升级到恐惧绝望，后来转机出现，在大使馆的安排下，搭乘包机回国。
He rose from initial anxiety to despair of fear, and then a chance to return home on chartered flights arranged by the embassy.
张晓东向八点健闻讲述了自己过去一个月的经历，以及他凭着20年的经验，对伊朗疫情为何如此严重所做的分析。
Zhang told Mr. eight about his experience over the past month and his analysis of why the Iranian epidemic is so serious, drawing on 20 years of experience.
为了更真实地表达被访者的感受，本文以第一人称叙述。
In order to express the feelings of the interviewee more truthfully, this article takes the first person narration.
△ 去年8月和一位宗教领袖合影。
Last August, we took a photo with a religious leader.
（以下图片和视频由受访者提供）本想躲病毒，却亲眼见证伊朗疫情的爆发2月14日情人节，我做了这辈子最糊涂的一个决定：去伊朗。
I made one of the most fatuous decisions of my life on February 14th, when I tried to hide from the virus and witnessed the outbreak of the Iranian epidemic.
我是个商人，业务在中东，根据地就在伊朗。
I'm a businessman with business in the Middle East, based in Iran.
从1999年开始，我就和波斯人打交道，一开始靠卖塑胶花起家，现在贸易范围做大了，主要从深圳批发电子产品卖到伊朗，再把那边的精油、坚果等特产卖回国内。
Since 1999, I have been dealing with the Persians, starting with the sale of plastic flowers, and now trading has expanded, mainly from wholesale and electronic products from Shenzhen to Iran, where I sell back essential oils, nuts and other specialties.
我往伊朗跑得很勤，基本上两个月就要去一次，每次待上十天半个月。
I ran very hard to Iran, basically once every two months, for ten days and a half a month at a time.
2月中旬差不多是国内疫情最严重的时候，每天有几千人被确诊。
In mid-February, almost at the height of the domestic epidemic, thousands of people were diagnosed every day.
而伊朗连一个病例都还没有，刚好确实有业务需要跑，我就决定飞到伊朗去待两天，既是生意，也能暂时避避疫情。
Without a single case in Iran, and just when there was business to run, I decided to fly to Iran for two days, both for business and to avoid the epidemic.
那时出国航班已经很少，我专门跑到蛇口码头坐船到香港，再飞到迪拜，最后转机到了德黑兰。
There were few flights abroad, so I flew to Shekou wharf by boat to Hong Kong, then to Dubai, and finally to Tehran.
刚到德黑兰的头两天，一切和我预想的差不多，没看到任何疫情的迹象，几个伊朗朋友三天两头约我吃饭聚餐，还很关切地问起中国的情况，并且表示同情。
During my first two days in Tehran, it was almost as I had expected, there were no signs of an outbreak, several Iranian friends invited me to dinner for three days and two, and asked with concern about China and sympathized.
可舒心日子没过几天。
But not for a few days.
2月19日，伊朗官方就报告了首例新冠病例，两个库姆的老人，确诊没几个小时后就死了。
On February 19, Iranian officials reported the first new case of the disease, two Qom elderly people, who died within hours of diagnosis.
这在伊朗当地几乎没有引起任何重视，但我已经有了不好的预感。
This has attracted little attention on the ground in Iran, but I already have a bad feeling about it.
第一，按国内死亡率来反推的话，伊朗感染人数应该上百了。
First, by extrapolating domestic mortality, the number of Iranian infections should be in the hundreds.
第二，库姆是宗教圣城，如果有人感染，扩散起来会非常快。
Second, Qom is a religious holy city that spreads very quickly if someone gets infected.
但那时也只是预感不好，真正觉得情况不妙是一周以后。
But it was a bad feeling at the time. It was a week later.
24号我开车去见客户，车上收音机用波斯语在播报，伊朗有个卫生部副部长被确诊了，这应该是世界上第一个被确诊的国家政要，病毒能传到那么高层的圈子里去，说明民间的情况肯定更严重。
I drove to see my client on the 24th, the radio was broadcast in Farsi, a deputy health minister in Iran was diagnosed as the world's first national political figure, and the virus was able to spread to such a high-level segment of the population that the situation was bound to get worse.
从听到广播的那一刻起，我开始留心观察大街上，车开过五六个路口，没看到一个戴口罩的人，我知道事情坏了。
From the moment I heard the radio, I began to watch the street. I drove five or six times and didn't see a man wearing a mask.
当天，我立马改签了回国的机票，原本计划3月4日回国，改到了最近的2月25号，先飞迪拜，转机回国。
I had planned to return home on March 4, but it was rescheduled to the latest flight to Dubai on February 25 for a connecting flight home.
25号一早，我赶到德黑兰伊玛目霍梅尼机场，一看傻眼了，航班取消，这个航班前一天还是正常飞的。
I arrived at Imam Khomeini Airport in Tehran early in the morning of the 25th and was dumbfounded. The flight was canceled and the flight was normal the day before.
我一下就慌了，开始坐在机场大厅查询其它机票，飞土耳其的、泰国的，全都满座了，当天飞离德黑兰的票一张都没了。
I panicked and began to sit in the lobby of the airport looking for other tickets. Turkey's and Thailand's were all full, and none of the tickets left Tehran the same day.
没办法，我只好又买了一张3月1日飞迪拜的票。
I had no choice but to buy another ticket to Dubai on March 1.
从那天开始，我从酒店搬到了伊朗的办公室。
From that day on, I moved from the hotel to my office in Iran.
经历过国内的疫情，我算是有点经验，知道酒店里流动性大，感染风险高，我打算就在办公室里自我隔离，熬到3月1日。
Having experienced the epidemic at home, I know the hotel is highly mobile and at high risk of infection, so I plan to isolate myself in the office until March 1.
讽刺的是，就在这期间，还有很多伊朗的朋友打电话给我，叫我去吃饭，你说这我怎么还敢去。
Ironically, during this time, many Iranian friends called me and asked me to have dinner. How dare I go there?
我还劝他们也少出门，也没人听我的。
I also advised them to go out less, and no one listened to me.
Play△伊朗消毒车在喷洒药水伊朗的疫情为什么会这么严重？那时候我已经想到伊朗会有今天的局面了。
Why is the Iran disinfection vehicle spraying water so serious? I was already thinking that Iran would be where it is today.
伊朗是一个很特殊的国家，你说他民主吧，确实很民主，大家都随着自己的性子来。
Iran is a very special country. You say he is democratic. It is democratic and everyone follows his own nature.
周末晚上，一定是朋友在一起聚会，吃饭聊天，喝酒抽烟，他们觉得忙了一个星期了，周末必须要放松，享受生活，天塌下来也不管，该玩还得玩。
On weekends, friends must be partying, chatting, drinking and smoking. They feel that they have been busy for a week. They must relax on weekends, enjoy life, and let the sky fall in.
但和欧美不同的是，伊朗信息相对闭塞。
But, unlike the US and Europe, Iran is relatively uninformed.
还有20%的人在用最老款的功能手机，没有上网功能。
Another 20 percent use the old-fashioned cellphone with no Internet connection.
即便能上网，网速也非常慢，更别说浏览国外的信息。
Even if you have access to the Internet, it is very slow, let alone browsing information from abroad.
所以伊朗民众的信息来源基本上就是国内新闻，由于伊朗官方在早期对疫情存在瞒报，这就导致很多人觉得这事没那么严重。
So the source of information for the Iranian public is basically the domestic news, which many feel is less serious because of the early underreporting of the outbreak by Iranian officials.
再有，伊朗是一个宗教国家，偏偏疫情又最先爆发在宗教圣城库姆，这是疫情不受控的一大原因。
Moreover, the fact that Iran is a religious country, and the outbreak of the first outbreak in the religious holy city of Qom, is a major cause of the uncontrolled epidemic.
在伊朗，宗教是大于一切的，连法律都是在宗教的基础上建立，绝对没有哪个政府敢说要关闭库姆的教堂。
In Iran, where religion is paramount, and laws are established on a religious basis, no government dares to close Qom's church.
这就等于火已经烧起来了，但你没法扑灭它，只能眼睁睁看着。
That means the fire is burning, but you can't put it out. You can only watch it.
很多伊朗人不是不知道危险，但他们的信仰就是，宁愿死我也要去朝拜。
Many Iranians are not unaware of the dangers, but their belief is that they would rather die than worship.
还有一个，口罩，伊朗人不是不愿意戴，而是买不起。
Another, a mask, the Iranians don't want to wear, but can't afford it.
你知道伊朗的口罩被炒到多少钱一个吗？15万里亚尔，差不多是30块人民币。
Do you know how much money you get for a mask in Iran? 150,000 rials, almost 30 yuan.
伊朗人收入是多少呢？我给伊朗职员发的月薪是差不多800块人民币，在当地已经算中上水平。
How much does the Iranians make? My monthly salary for Iranian employees is almost 800 yuan, which is already above the local average.
对他们来说，一个口罩就是一天的收入，换成我们自己，恐怕也不见得会买吧。
For them, a mask is a day's earnings, we may not be able to buy it.
伊朗的医疗条件在中东还算不错，医生能力很强，脑科医生在世界上都是有名的，但硬件上有些欠缺，因为美国一直制裁它，很多最新的医疗设备没法进口。
Medical conditions in Iran are good in the Middle East, doctors are very capable, brain doctors are world-famous, but there are some hardware deficiencies because the United States has been sanctioning it and many of the latest medical equipment cannot be imported.
伊朗的药品基本上都是国产的，和印度差不多，做仿制药，又便宜又好。
Iranian medicines are basically homemade, similar to India's, cheap and good at making generic drugs.
但在疫情的冲击下，伊朗的医疗体系崩盘了。
But Iran's health-care system collapsed under the impact of the epidemic.
因为医疗资源相对不足，伊朗政府在一开始就要求所有医院都要收治新冠病人，这就导致了医院成了交叉感染的毒区，这有点像早期的武汉，所以很多伊朗人即便有了症状，也不敢去医院。
With few medical resources, the Iranian government initially required all hospitals to treat new patients, leading to hospitals becoming cross-infected, something like the early days of Wuhan, so many Iranians were afraid to go to hospitals even if they had symptoms.
即便是这样，医院也面临床位不足的问题，他们只能选择性地收治重症患者，如果你发烧到39度以上，或者呼吸困难，那么医院会给你一个床位，否则就只能领到一些药片，回家隔离。
Even so, hospitals face a shortage of beds. They can only selectively treat patients who are seriously ill. If you have a fever of more than 39 degrees or have difficulty breathing, the hospital will give you a bed, or else they will get some pills and go home in isolation.
我从视频上看到很多伊朗人在医院外晕倒、死去，其中很多是孩子。
I saw a lot of Iranians fainting and dying outside the hospital, many of them children.
△在回国的包机上。
On a chartered flight home.
航班取消，大使馆的包机救了我的命煎熬5天以后，3月1日，我再一次来到机场，最担心的情况还是发生了，航班又被取消。
Five days after the flight was canceled and the embassy chartered plane saved my life, on March 1, I arrived at the airport again.
我不算是个胆小的人，之前伊朗几次大规模游行，爆发冲突，开枪死人，我都经历过，但都没有这一次来得害怕，平时闹得再凶，我们作为华人也能自保。
I am not a coward. I have experienced a number of mass demonstrations, clashes and shootings in Iran, but I have never been afraid of this one.
但传染病不长眼睛，不分国籍，只要被染上，我们也得死。
But infectious diseases do not have eyes, regardless of nationality, as long as we are infected, we must die.
我立马联系了中国驻伊朗大使馆，这个电话救了我的命。
I immediately contacted the Chinese Embassy in Iran and the call saved my life.
大使馆的人很清楚当下的局势，工作人员告诉我说，他们已经在筹划撤离，让我把资料发过去，找个安全的地方等候通知。
The Embassy was well aware of the situation and the staff told me that they were already planning to evacuate and that I would send the information and find a safe place to wait for the announcement.
当天，和我同去机场的还有两个深圳的朋友，他们是上市公司派来公干的，上头的命令是尽早回国。
On the same day, I went to the airport with two friends from Shenzhen, who were sent by listed companies on business, the order is to return home as soon as possible.
原本我们是一趟飞机回国，航班取消以后，他们马上计划了另一条路线，从德黑兰飞到莫斯科，再飞北京，最后回到深圳，第二天就有票，问我要不要一起。
When the flight was canceled, they planned another route from Tehran to Moscow, then to Beijing, and finally back to Shenzhen. The next day there were tickets and asked me if I would like to join them.
我征求大使馆工作人员的意见，他们说最好不要这样走，转机三次，接触的人太多，反而更不安全，还不如待在家里等，回国的飞机一定会把我们接回去。
I asked the Embassy staff, who said it would be better not to go this way, three times, to contact too many people, but more unsafe, rather than stay at home and wait for us, the plane will take us back.
我当时想，还是相信祖国吧，就在电话里报了名，序号是287，中国在伊朗滞留的华人差不多1000人（常住的有3000多，因为春节回去了2000多）这说明大使馆已经筹划撤侨有一段时间了。
At that time, I thought, still believe in the motherland, on the phone to announce the name, the serial number 287, China in Iran to stay in China almost 1000 people (usually more than 3,000, because the Spring Festival returned more than 2,000), this shows that the embassy has been planning to evacuate overseas Chinese for some time.
没过几天，我接到了电话，撤离方案已经定了，总共6架飞机，由南方航空承运，确保想回国的人都能回。
A few days later, I received a phone call and the evacuation plan had been finalized for a total of six aircraft, to be operated by Southern Airlines, to ensure the return of all those who wished to return.
头两班留给了留学生，飞到兰州，费用由国家承担。
The first two flights were reserved for international students, flying to Lanzhou at the expense of the state.
后四班安排给我们这些做生意的和旅游的，费用自己出，4100多，算是成本价。
The cost of the last four flights is more than 4,100, which is the cost price.
按照报名顺序，我被安排在3月9日起飞，降落郑州。
In accordance with the order of registration, I was scheduled to take off on March 9 and land in Zhengzhou.
大使馆给同航班的人建了微信群，有120多人。
The embassy has built a microcosm of more than 120 people for the same flight.
有件事情我必须要说一下，大使馆工作人员真的是很辛苦。
One thing I have to say is that the embassy staff is really hard work.
确定航班以后，其实出了不少状况，因为大量华人都不在德黑兰，而当时伊朗国内已经封锁道路了，怎么让他们准时赶到机场就是一件麻烦事。
After the flights were confirmed, things went wrong because a large number of Chinese were not in Tehran, and it was a hassle to get them to the airport on time when the roads were blocked in Iran.
我印象很深的是一个老太太，和她爱人来旅游，结果被困在一个岛上的酒店里，那地方离德黑兰至少还有两三天的路程，更要命的是，她爱人已经被确诊感染了，当地医院也不收。
I was very impressed by an old woman who traveled with her lover and ended up stranded in a hotel on the island, at least two or three days from Tehran, and, worse still, her wife was diagnosed with the infection and the local hospital refused to accept it.
那个老太太在群里发的语音，听着声音都快哭出来了。
The voice of the old lady in the group almost burst into tears.
后来，在大使馆的介入下，他们靠着一本中国护照，一路闯卡，最后成功坐上了回国的飞机，真有点像《战狼2》里的情节。
Later, with the intervention of the embassy, they made their way through a Chinese passport and landed on a plane back home, something like Wolf 2.
还有一个让我很受触动的是，海外华人动用各自最大的力量互相帮助，有帮忙做翻译的，帮忙打车的，帮忙订酒店的，这种例子实在是太多了。
Another thing that struck me was that the overseas Chinese used their best efforts to help each other. There were too many examples of helping with the translation, taxi and hotel bookings.
我也帮了两个来旅游的阿姨，她们当时被困在大不里士，没有交通工具可以来德黑兰，语言又不通，眼看着要错过航班了，只能干着急。
I also helped two aunts who were stranded in Tabriz, had no means of transportation to Tehran, had no language, and were anxious to miss their flight.
我刚好在那边有朋友，就赶紧让他帮忙租了辆车，价钱随便开，唯一的要求就是要连夜把这两个阿姨送到德黑兰来，一路上开了12个小时。
I happened to have a friend over there, so I asked him to help rent a car at random prices, the only requirement is to bring the two aunts to Tehran overnight, the journey for 12 hours.
我还给她们提前订好了酒店。
I also booked them in advance.
这两个阿姨我到现在也没见过面，她们来得晚，被排到了下一趟航班。
The two aunts, whom I have not seen so far, arrived late and were scheduled for the next flight.
△张晓东乘坐的包机撤离过程6次测体温心惊肉跳怕被查出异常终于等到了撤离的日子。
Zhang Xiaodong's charter flight evacuation process 6 times the temperature of the panic-stricken fear of detection finally waited until the evacuation date.
3月9日，我早早地就赶到了机场，机场里已经没什么旅客了，所有的工作人员都穿着防护服，全套武装。
On March 9, I arrived at the airport early. There were no more passengers at the airport. All the staff were wearing protective clothing and fully armed.
因为疫情，我的旅游签证延期了一天，按规定需要缴纳罚款，换取通行单。
Because of the outbreak, my tourist visa was extended for one day, and I was required to pay a fine in exchange for a pass.
就这么一个简单的事情，花了两个多小时才办好。
It took more than two hours to do such a simple thing.
那个时候，伊朗机场已经几乎停摆了。
By that time, the Iranian airport had almost stopped.
我在出入境大厅看到了两个中国留学生，一男一女，应该不到20岁吧，蹲在地上哭。
I saw two Chinese students in the entrance hall, a man and a woman, who should be less than 20 years old, squatting on the ground crying.
他们原本和我同一班飞机回国的，登机牌都拿在手上了，但因为是留学签证，需要伊朗移民局批一个出境签，碰上移民局放假，这俩孩子就走不成了。
They had all the boarding passes in hand, but they could not leave because they needed an exit visa from the Iranian immigration authorities because they were on a student visa.
我会说波斯话，还帮他们和机场的工作人员说情。
I speak Persian and talk to airport staff.
我说移民局放假了，你让这俩孩子怎么办，能不能特殊照顾一下。
I said the immigration office is closed. What can you do with these two children? Can you give them special attention?
对方说不行，没有上头的文件，他也担不起这个责任。
The other side said no, no above the document, he can not bear this responsibility.
不知道这俩孩子最后回来了没，真是一件挺揪心的事。
I don't know if the two boys came back at last. It's a real worry.
1点半准时登机。
Boarding will begin at 1: 30.
从那一刻开始，中国的专业和高效就和伊朗形成了鲜明的对比。
From that moment on, China's professionalism and efficiency stood in stark contrast to Iran's.
上飞机前，所有人要测一次体温，四个人一组，测一个上一个，算上进机场和过安检测的两次，这已经是当天第三次测体温了。
Before boarding the plane, everyone had to take a temperature test, four in groups, one in the previous one, and two at the airport and the security check, which was the third time that day that the temperature had been taken.
测完后，每人领到一个N95口罩，之前戴的全都要换下来扔掉。
After the test, each person receives a N95 mask, and all those worn before are replaced and thrown away.
飞机是波音787，每排有9个座位，3个3个隔开。
The plane is a Boeing 787, with nine seats in each row and three seats separated by three.
不能挨着坐，要把中间的位置空出来，相当于每排坐6个人。
Do not sit next to each other. Make room in the middle for six people in each row.
工作人员全都穿着防护服，听说已经不是空乘了，都是郑州疾控部门派人经过航空培训上岗的。
The staff are all wearing protective clothing, heard that is no longer the flight attendants, are Zhengzhou CDC staff through aviation training on duty.
广播不断重复，让我们全程尽量不上厕所，不喝水，不摘下口罩，因为谁也不知道飞机上有没有病毒携带者。
Radio repeats, let us try not to go to the toilet, do not drink water, do not take off the mask, because no one knows if there is a carrier on the plane.
大概起飞两小时后，工作人员又来测了第四次体温。
About two hours after takeoff, the crew took a fourth temperature.
这次就出现状况了，光我看到的就有3个人被请出了座位，带到最后几排，离我最近的一个就坐前两排。
This time there was a situation. All I could see was three people being asked out of their seats and taken to the last row, just two rows away from the nearest one.
人们一下子就警觉起来了，我也紧张得不行。
All of a sudden people were alert, and I was nervous.
一是怕自己也会被请出来，二是怕感染，毕竟我们要在这么一个密闭空间里待上6、7个小时。
One is afraid that we will be invited out, the other is afraid of infection, after all, we have to stay in such a closed space for six or seven hours.
北京时间3月10日凌晨1点多，飞机降落在郑州机场，没有人欢呼，也没有想象中的激动场景，可能大家都知道更严格的检查还在后面吧。
The plane landed at Zhengzhou airport at 1: 00 a.m. Beijing time on March 10. No one cheered or imagined excitement, and perhaps everyone knew that more stringent checks were still ahead.
果然，我们被要求10人一组下飞机，接受海关检查。
Sure enough, we were asked to disembark in groups of 10 for customs control.
平时是要走出入境大厅的，这次海关临时在外面搭了一个检测点。
Usually to go through the entrance hall, this time the customs temporary put up a detection point outside.
所有人摘下口罩，对比一下护照上的照片，然后领一支温度计，夹在腋下，测了第五次体温，因为凌晨的气温很低，再用扫描枪可能就不准了。
All took off their masks, compared the pictures on their passports, took a thermometer under their armpits, and took their fifth temperature because it was so cold in the early morning that a scanner might not be accurate.
这一次，又有两个人出现了异常，直接被等在一旁的救护车拉走了，我们其他人坐上了大巴，前往隔离点，大巴车上也是隔着坐的，一辆车坐了没几个人。
This time, two more people showed up and were pulled away by the waiting ambulance. The rest of us got on the bus and went to the quarantine point.
差不多开了一个多小时，到了郊区的一家度假酒店。
After almost an hour of driving, he arrived at a resort hotel in the suburbs.
等待我们的就是最后的终极检查了，专业的医护人员，三对一检查，先测体温，然后让你嘴张开，用探测棒刮喉咙，又抽了两管血。
What's waiting for us is the final checkup, professional paramedics, three to one, take a temperature test, then open your mouth, scrape your throat with a probe stick, and draw two more tubes of blood.
探测棒的结果几分钟就出来了，阴性阳性。
The results of the probes came out in a few minutes, negative.
血液样本要送回医院。
Blood samples are sent back to the hospital.
这时候，又有两个人被带走了，那基本就是确诊了。
At this time, two more people were taken away, which is basically the diagnosis.
我算了一下，这一趟行程，前前后后总共测了6次体温。
Let me figure out, this trip, before and after a total of six temperature tests.
每次检查心都跳得厉害，就怕听到那句，“麻烦您出来一下……”。
Every time check heart jumps badly, afraid to hear that sentence, "Please come out..."
Play△回国的包机上。
On a chartered flight for Play?? s return.
终于可以睡上一个安心觉目前，我正在度假酒店里接受14天的隔离。
At last I can sleep for a while. For the moment, I'm in a 14-day seclusion at the resort hotel.
酒店条件很好，房间够大，一日三餐送到门口自取。
The hotel is in good condition and the room is big enough to take three meals a day to the door.
房间里还有一个体温计，每天早晚自己测量两次，把情况汇报到群里。
There was also a thermometer, which measured itself twice a day and reported back to the group.
如果有其它不适症状，或者需要心理干预的，也可以在群里提出来。
If you have other symptoms of discomfort or need psychological intervention, you can also mention them in the group.
对我来说，最好的事情是终于可以睡上一个安心觉了。
The best thing for me is to finally get a good sleep.
在伊朗办公室的那两周，我几乎夜夜失眠。
During my two weeks in the Iranian office, I almost sleepless nights.
窗外经常能听到消毒车开过喷洒药水的声音，手机里不断收到朋友发来的视频，不知道哪个医院门口又有人卡着脖子倒下。
Outside the window can often hear the sound of disinfectant cars driving spray, mobile phones continue to receive the video from friends, do not know which hospital door and someone fell neck.
这一切曾经离我那么近，让我不由自主地发抖害怕。
All this had been so near to me, I could not help shaking and afraid.
现在还有很多海外华人在经历我所经历过的一切，有些人的处境恐怕比我更糟。
There are still a lot of overseas Chinese going through what I've been through, and some of them are in a worse position than I am.
但无论如何，我把自己的故事拿出来分享，我想感谢所有为我们的平安回国付出过努力的工作人员。
But anyway, I share my story, and I want to thank all those who worked so hard for our safe return.
你们的专业和高效，打消了国人的疑虑，让我们得到了妥善安置。
Your professionalism and efficiency have dispelled the doubts of our countrymen and allowed us to be properly settled.
你们所代表的中国形象，让我从心底里觉得温暖和自豪。
The image of China you represent makes me feel warm and proud from the bottom of my heart.
毛晓琼|撰稿微信号：234379189季敏华|撰稿微信号：janejiminhua王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006致读者：“八点健闻”公众号将于4月11日恢复更新。
Mao Xiaodong & # 124; Writing microsignals: 2343 79189; Seasonal Mini-Signal: Janejiminhua Wang Gilu & # 124; Blame microsignals: wangjilu006 to readers: "Eight Keen Hear" public will resume updating on April 11.
在此之前，我们在“八点健闻Plus”发表报道。
Before that, we published a report at Eight Point Health Plus.
敬请关注。
Attention, please.
我们尊重原创版权，未经授权请勿转载。
We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
郑琪|授权转载微信号：1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922反馈交流，加入核心读者群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
CHENG Chi-chi & # 124; Authorize the Reproduction of Microsignals: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 feedback exchange, join the core readership, sweep code to let friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
逃离德黑兰：中国商人见证伊朗疫情大爆发，乘大使馆包机惊险回国。
Flee from Tehran: Chinese businessmen witnessed a major outbreak of the Iranian epidemic and returned home on chartered flights from the embassy.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "逃离德黑兰：中国商人见证伊朗疫情大爆发，乘大使馆包机惊险回国";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; fled Tehran: Chinese businessmen witnessed a major outbreak of the Iranian epidemic, and took advantage of embassy charter flights to AT & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "1月在中国，2月在伊朗，他两次见证疫情的爆发";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; he twice witnessed AT & quot; in China in January and in Iran in February.
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
