西班牙疫情“至暗时刻”：从隔岸观火到全境封锁。
The Spanish epidemic "darkens": from watching the fires to blockading the entire country.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
西班牙最早1月底出现首个新冠确诊病例，但民众心态像隔岸观火。
In Spain, the first confirmed new crown case was reported at the end of January, but the mood was one of isolation.
3月上旬，接连数场球赛、节日聚会和万人游行之后，西班牙确诊人数迅速攀升。
The number of confirmed cases in Spain rose rapidly in early March, following a series of matches, holiday rallies and mass marches.
一位部长被感染，政府官员全体接受病毒检测。
A minister was infected and government officials were tested for the virus.
3月16日开始，西班牙全境进入“封锁状态”，民众被要求待在家中，若非必要禁止外出。
Since March 16, Spain has been under a "state of siege," with people being asked to stay at home, if not forbidden to go out.
轻症患者在家隔离，医院不收，也没有“方舱医院”。
Patients with mild illnesses are isolated at home. Hospitals do not accept them and there is no "square cabin hospital."
社区防控主要靠街上巡逻的警察。
Community control consists mainly of police officers patrolling the streets.
西班牙新冠疫情告急。
The Spanish crown is in crisis.
最新数据显示，累计确诊超过1.1万人，至少490人死亡。
The latest figures show that more than 11,000 people have been diagnosed cumulatively and at least 490 have died.
目前，西班牙已经超过德国和法国，成为欧洲第二大疫情国家。
Spain has now overtaken Germany and France as the second most affected country in Europe.
确诊病例从500例到5000例，韩国经历了11天，意大利10天，而西班牙只用了6天。
From 500 to 5,000 confirmed cases, South Korea experienced 11 days, Italy 10 days, and Spain only six days.
此外，西班牙的死亡率高达3.7%，仅次于死亡率最高的意大利。
In addition, Spain has a mortality rate of 3.7 per cent, second only to Italy, which has the highest mortality rate.
△ 截图来自腾讯新闻西班牙首相桑切斯3月14日宣布，为遏制新冠肺炎疫情蔓延，决定在全国范围内实施为期15天的封锁管控。
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Antonio Sánchez announced on March 14 that he had decided to impose a nationwide 15-day embargo to curb the spread of the new crown pneumonia.
除工作、就医或购买生活必需品等特定情况外，全国范围内的民众禁止走出家门。
Nationwide, people are prohibited from leaving their homes, except in certain cases, such as work, medical treatment or the purchase of necessities.
上一次西班牙进入紧急状态，是在10年前，西班牙各地机场空管大罢工。
The last state of emergency in Spain was a 10-year-old strike by air traffic controllers at airports across Spain.
据媒体报道，西班牙公共卫生系统拥有3508间重症监护病房（ICU），外加896间私人病房（总计4404间）。
According to media reports, the Spanish public health system has 3,508 intensive care units (ICUs) plus 896 private wards (a total of 4,404).
根据欧盟统计局（Eurostat）的数据，就每10万居民的床位数而言，西班牙可提供的床位数与其他受到疫情影响的欧洲国家（如意大利或英国）相似，但又远低于德国或法国。
According to Eurostat, the number of beds available in Spain per 100,000 inhabitants is similar to that available in other European countries affected by the epidemic, such as Italy or the United Kingdom, but much lower than in Germany or France.
Adita是一名华侨，住在西班牙沿岸的Balearic群岛，这座岛号称是西班牙人度假的后花园，面积只有4600平方公里，人口不足80万，但目前岛上确诊患者已经有50多例。
Adita, an overseas Chinese resident of the Balearic Islands off the coast of Spain, boasts just 4,600 square kilometres of Spanish holiday garden and a population of less than 800,000, but there are now more than 50 confirmed cases on the island.
疫情爆发之后，一大批马德里人涌入岛内，令原本捉襟见肘的医疗、物资资源更显紧缺。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, a large number of Madrid people into the island, so that already stretched medical, material resources are even more scarce.
日前，Adita向八点健闻讲述了她在当地的经历。
Adita told Eight Keen Heard about her experiences in the area.
华人囤货时，西班牙人不以为然2月9日那天，岛上确诊一例新冠肺炎患者，他是个英国人，去法国滑雪而被感染，这是西班牙境内报告的第二例。
Spanish confirmed a case of New Crown Pneumonia, an Englishman who went skiing in France and was infected, the second reported case in Spain.
这里媒体报道他的症状非常轻微，但我还是非常担心。
The media here reported that his symptoms were very mild, but I was still very worried.
首例出现时间更早，1月31日一位德国籍患者在戈梅拉岛确诊，那也是一个度假胜地，距离首都马德里2000公里。
The first case occurred earlier, on January 31, when a German patient was diagnosed in Gomera, another resort, 2,000 kilometers from the capital, Madrid.
自1月底武汉封城之后，我一直关注着国内情况。
Since Wuhan was closed at the end of January, I have been watching the situation at home.
在西班牙的家人群里，我马上发了很多关于中国防御新冠病毒的方法，比如说勤洗手、戴口罩，和人保持距离等等。
Within the Spanish family, I immediately launched many tips on how to defend against the new crown virus, such as washing your hands frequently, wearing a mask, keeping your distance, etc.
结果，我先生的舅舅回了一句，这就是个普通的流感，不要太在意。
As a result, my husband's uncle replied, this is an ordinary flu, do not care too much.
他们就觉得我很夸张。
They just thought I was exaggerating.
我开始囤货，去到超市根本没人抢购，邻居们都不以为然。
I started hoarding goods and went to the supermarket without anyone snapping them up. Neighbors weren't impressed.
我的先生是个西班牙人，他认为我的反应有点过激。
My husband is a Spaniard, and he thinks my reaction is a little extreme.
他们和我之前的心态一样。
They're in the same frame of mind as me.
早在武汉疫情爆发的时候，国内的家人一直提醒我，囤点粮食。
Back in Wuhan, when the outbreak of the family has been reminding me to hoard food.
但当时岛上还没有出现病例，我也就没太在意。
But there was no case on the island and I didn't care.
电视里对国内疫情的报道，怎么讲，有点像隔岸观火。
Television coverage of the domestic epidemic, how to say, is a bit like watching the fire.
大家偶尔看一看中国的形势，都不是那么上心。
Every once in a while you look at the situation in China and it doesn't matter that much.
当时，新闻传递出来的语气都是，大家要镇定，不要神经紧张。
At that time, the tone of the news was that everyone should calm down, not nervous tension.
卫生部长在电视上露面，都是很轻松的样子。
The Minister of Health appeared on television in a relaxed manner.
直到大约一个月后意大利疫情大爆发，就没有媒体敢说这样的话了。
Not until a month or so later did any of the media dare to say that.
西班牙移民比较多，再加上本身是一个旅游国家。
Spain has a large number of immigrants, plus being a tourist country itself.
很多人高中毕业，就可以找到一份旅游业的相关工作。
Many people can find jobs related to tourism when they graduate from high school.
有很多人这辈子都没离开过西班牙，没有去过亚洲，更没有去过中国。
Many people have never left Spain, never been to Asia, and never been to China in their lives.
他们很难因为一种陌生的病毒，把一年四季都有地中海阳光的海岛和武汉这个城市，联系起来。
It is difficult for them to connect the island, which has Mediterranean sunshine all year round, to Wuhan, because of a strange virus.
在他们的印象当中，中国只是一个符号，医疗水平落后。
In their impression, China is only a symbol, and medical standards lag behind.
相反，华人群体至始至终保有警惕性。
On the contrary, the Chinese community remains vigilant throughout the process.
很多华人年后返回西班牙，都是主动自我隔离14天。
Many Chinese returned to Spain after 14 years of voluntary isolation.
新闻里播过，马德里华人回来以后，他们在当地经营的店铺就没有直接开门。
It was shown on the news that the shops run by the Madrid Chinese did not open directly after their return.
他们挂出告示，中文写着，因为病毒原因，我们自我隔离；西班牙文就写着放假。
They put up signs in Chinese that say that because of the virus, we isolate ourselves; Spanish says holiday.
在武汉疫情爆发伊始，这座岛上的口罩就被抢空，一箱一箱寄回了国内。
At the start of the Wuhan outbreak, the island's masks were emptied and boxes of them were sent home.
年后补了一些货，华人们又继续买口罩，寄给中国的家人。
Chinese people continue to buy masks and send them to their families in China.
本地人仍旧办派对、看球赛，直到2月底意大利疫情爆发了，开始出现很多输入型病例，西班牙人慌了。
Locals continued to host parties and watch the game until late February, when the outbreak of Italy began to show a lot of imported cases, Spaniards panic.
数场万人集会后，疫情爆发了在三月初，电视里还报道，西班牙控制得很好。
After tens of thousands of rallies, the outbreak broke out in early March, and it was reported on television that Spain was in good control.
当时的确诊人数不到500人。
The number of confirmed cases was less than 500.
2月底意大利疫情爆发的时候，在远离西班牙本土的特内里费岛的一家酒店，有一名意大利游客被确诊，上千人都被困在里面。
When the outbreak broke out in late February, an Italian tourist was diagnosed in a hotel on the island of Tenerife, far from mainland Spain, trapping thousands of people inside.
酒店应急措施可圈可点，最后查出6名确诊患者。
The hotel's emergency response was noteworthy, resulting in the identification of six confirmed patients.
到了3月5日，情况急转直下，意大利开始全境停课。
By 5 March, the situation had deteriorated and Italy had begun to suspend classes throughout the country.
3月7日晚，意大利政府宣布封锁整个伦巴第大区及其他十四省。
On the evening of 7 March, the Government of Italy announced the blockade of the entire Lombardy region and 14 other provinces.
两天后，意大利全国封锁，确诊人数超过9000。
Two days later, Italy imposed a nationwide blockade, with more than 9,000 confirmed cases.
在意大利求学的学生纷纷回到了马德里、巴塞罗那，西班牙的确诊数据开始翻倍增长。
Students studying in Italy have returned to Madrid and Barcelona, and the number of confirmed cases in Spain has doubled.
西班牙还有一个疫情高发区，是因为一场葬礼，造成了60多个人被感染。
There is also a high-prevalence area in Spain, where more than 60 people were infected as a result of a funeral.
即便如此，西班牙也不禁止各种大型活动。
Even so, Spain does not ban big events.
西甲如期举行，皇家马德里对阵巴塞罗那的国家德比吸引了8万多人到场观战。
With Spain on schedule, Real Madrid's national derby against Barcelona attracted more than 80,000 spectators.
3月1日，盛大的法雅节在瓦伦西亚举行，聚集了成千上万未戴口罩的民众，本是重灾区的瓦伦西亚干脆停止公布确诊人数。
On March 1, the grand Faya festival took place in Valencia, where thousands of people gathered without masks. Valencia, a disaster area, stopped announcing the number of confirmed cases.
3月8日，妇女平权大游行在西班牙各地展开，超过30万人上街。
On March 8, more than 300,000 people took to the streets as part of an affirmative action march for women across Spain.
随后，执意坚持游行的社会平等部部长确诊，其丈夫为副首相，二人近期曾和国王会面，西班牙政府所有成员都开始接受新冠病毒检测。
Subsequently, the Minister for Social Equality, who insisted on the march, confirmed that her husband was a Deputy Prime Minister, that they had recently met with the King and that all members of the Spanish Government had begun testing for the new crown virus.
别的地方病例数增长的时候，我们这个海岛没有动静。
When the number of cases increased elsewhere, our island did not move.
突然之间，就增加了两例从意大利旅游回来的患者。
Suddenly, there were two more cases of patients who had returned from a trip to Italy.
不到一个星期，又有两个人被确诊，也是去意大利旅游的。
Less than a week later, two more people were diagnosed and were on a tour of Italy.
直到上周二，岛上一个59岁的患者去世了，她是我们岛上第一例死亡病例，导致了80多名人员被隔离。
It was not until Tuesday that a 59-year-old patient died, the first death on our island, and more than 80 people were quarantined.
这下问题大了，居民慌了，医生也有点头疼。
This is a big problem, residents panic, and the doctor has a headache.
岛上一家医院的朋友告诉我，一个医生病倒了，就是和新冠病毒有关。
A friend of a hospital on the island told me that a doctor who had fallen ill had something to do with the new crown virus.
他们现在把医院所有的非紧急手术预约取消掉，日期全部推后重排。
They now cancel all non-emergency hospital appointments and reschedule them later.
早在一周之前，当地医院还没有反应过来。
As early as a week ago, the local hospital had not responded.
3月2日，我去附近医院动了个手术，去见麻醉师的时候，恰好碰到电视台来这家医院采访，因为当天收治了两名新冠肺炎患者。
On March 2, I went to a nearby hospital for an operation to see an anesthesiologist. I happened to be interviewed by a television station because two patients with Newcastle pneumonia were admitted that day.
医院的人说，一下子不知所措，因为什么都没有。
The people at the hospital said they were at a loss because there was nothing there.
从麻醉手术室出来后，我在一个专门的休息室，等麻药慢慢退去。
After coming out of the anaesthesia operation room, I was in a special lounge, waiting for the anesthetic to fade away.
有一个男护士特别热情地和我说，你西班牙语说得真好，我把领导叫来，你跟他们说说，这个病毒是怎么一回事。
One of the male nurses said to me with special enthusiasm, you speak Spanish very well, I call the leader, you tell them what the virus is.
一下子，就叫来了五六个医生，都没有戴口罩。
All at once, five or six doctors were called, all without masks.
我讲了一下病毒的危险性。
I talked about the danger of the virus.
他们很茫然地看着我。
They looked at me blankly.
男护士就说，我们什么都没有，连最普通的三层口罩也没有。
The male nurse said that we had nothing, not even the most common three-storey mask.
后来我搜新闻看到一个消息，碰上了疫情，各国都加足马力生产口罩，西班牙也有一个做口罩的工厂，开工的时候，却发现没有无纺布的面料。
Then I checked the news and saw that there was an epidemic, that countries were running full steam to make masks, and that Spain had a mask-making factory, but when it started, there was no fabric that was nonwoven.
全境封锁，邻居们开始囤货像是在“放养”状态下的西班牙，这回确实被迅速飙升的疫情搞懵了。
The blockade, with neighbors stocking up like Spain in a state of free-range farming, was stunned by the surge.
3月14日，首相佩德罗·桑切斯的妻子确诊感染病毒，让我们大吃一惊。
On 14 March, Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez's wife shocked us when she was diagnosed with the virus.
戏剧性的是，几个小时之前，西班牙政府终于宣布：3月16日开始，国家进入紧急状态。
The drama began a few hours ago when the Spanish government finally declared a state of emergency on March 16.
这场新闻发布会约有970万观众收看，是西班牙历史上收视率最高的星期六。
The news conference, watched by an estimated 9.7 million viewers, was the most watched Saturday in Spanish history.
西班牙的国家紧急状态分为三级，从低到高依次是“警报状态”，“例外状态”，“封锁状态”。
The Spanish state of emergency is divided into three levels, from low to high - "alert state," "state of exception," and "state of siege."
这次是“封锁状态”。
This time it is a state of blockade.
昔日繁华无比、人潮涌动的马德里街头，如今只有贩卖食品的商铺和超市依然开放，其他门店全部暂停营业。
The streets of Madrid, once bustling and bustling with people, are now open only to food shops and supermarkets, while all others are closed.
西班牙是继意大利之后，欧洲第二个采取封锁措施的国家。
Spain is the second country in Europe, after Italy, to adopt the embargo.
4600万西班牙民众被要求待在家中。
Forty-six million Spaniards were asked to stay at home.
根据西班牙《国家报》的一项调查，44.7%的人口承认他们对新冠病毒感到担忧。
According to a survey in the Spanish newspaper El País, 44.7 per cent of the population admitted that they were worried about the new crown virus.
邻居们终于开始囤货。
Neighbors are finally stocking up.
“闭关”第一天早上，他们就一车车地往家买。
On the morning of the first day, they bought cars from their homes.
我先生的一个同事，也是西班牙人，本来规定是周一开始不用去上班，但他从上个周四开始，就拒绝上班。
One of my husband's co-workers, a Spaniard, who was supposed to be away from work on Monday, has refused to work since last Thursday.
你爱开除我就开除我，一定要在家上班。
If you want to fire me, I'm fired. I have to work from home.
他爱吃特别辣的方便面，在我们囤货的时候，送了一包给他，结果他说，已经囤了两个月的食品。
He loves spicy instant noodles, and while we were stocking up, he gave him a packet, which he said he had been hoarding for two months.
在家人的线上聊天群里，可以感受到大家的神经开始紧张了。
In the chatting group on family's line, can feel everybody's nerve to begin to be nervous.
一发布虚假消息，立马有人指出来，这个是假的。
As soon as the false news was published, it was pointed out that it was false.
大家反感谣言，不想更加惊慌了，都在试着保持镇定。
People were disgusted with the rumor, didn't want to panic any more, were trying to keep calm.
西班牙停飞意大利航班，并禁止举行大型集会，马德里全部学校停课两周。
Spain suspended flights to Italy and banned large rallies, and all schools in Madrid were closed for two weeks.
在3月12日，西班牙首相桑切斯宣布，向受疫情影响的自治区拨款28亿欧元用于保护医护人员，以及保障抗疫物资的供应，还表示将从国家总预算的应急基金中也拨出10亿欧元，优先用于医疗物质采买等事项。
On 12 March, the Prime Minister of Spain announced that Euro2.8 billion would be allocated to the autonomous regions affected by the epidemic for the protection of health-care workers and the provision of supplies against the disease, and that Euro1 billion would be allocated from the contingency fund of the general State budget, giving priority to the purchase of medical supplies.
在地媒体报道上可以看到，西班牙国防部已经开始在马德里、瓦伦西亚、塞维利亚和特内里夫等地征召后备军，加入军队应急部门，在公车和火车站上协助地方执法部门实施检查和消毒，增援街头巡逻。
According to local media reports, the Spanish Ministry of Defence has begun recruiting reserves in Madrid, Valencia, Seville and Tenerife, joining the army's emergency services, assisting local law enforcement agencies with inspections and disinfection on buses and train stations, and reinforcing street patrols.
此外还征召了后备军医、护士和药剂师，加强医疗救援和医疗物品生产。
Reserve medical doctors, nurses and pharmacists have also been recruited to enhance medical assistance and production of medical supplies.
3月16日，我去附近医院拆线，门口登记人员问我预约有没有被取消，我说没有，我来拆线。
On March 16, I went to a nearby hospital to disconnect the wire. The clerk at the gate asked me if the appointment had been cancelled.
她重新核实了我的预约，让我到等候大厅。
She rechecked my appointment and let me go to the waiting hall.
这个大厅原来的椅子比较密集，现在背靠背的椅子都分开了，保持了足够的距离。
The chairs in this hall used to be so dense that they are now separated back to back, keeping enough distance apart.
每个房间都有医生，但都没有病人。
There was a doctor in every room, but there were no patients.
坐着等待的时间里，我听到医生在给有预约的病人们打电话，问他们有什么问题，面诊之后会被取消。
As I sat waiting, I heard the doctor calling patients who had appointments and asking them if they had any questions.
△ 受访者供图在社交网络看到一个视频，3月14日晚，西班牙民众走上自家阳台，为医护及相关工作人员鼓掌，感谢他们为阻止新冠肺炎疫情扩散所做的工作。
Spanish people on the night of March 14 stepped out on their balcony to applaud medical and related workers for their work to stop the spread of the disease.
那个视频，真的挺感人的。
That video was really moving.
朋友说，在西班牙所有城市，这样的活动以后每天都会持续。
Friends say that in all Spanish cities, such activities continue every day.
Play轻症患者在家隔离，很多华人不理解西班牙正处于疫情的至暗时刻，每日的数据令人心情抑郁。
Many Chinese do not understand that Spain is in the darkest hour of the epidemic. Daily statistics are depressing.
我不知道要花多长时间，才能走出来。
I don't know how long it will take to get out.
说几点我的担忧。
Tell me a few things about my worry.
西班牙的医疗体系，实行家庭医生首诊制，任何问题先联系家庭医生。
The Spanish health-care system provides a first visit by a family doctor, who is contacted for any problems.
疫情期间，如果觉得自己有类似症状，拨打一个专门热线。
If you feel like you have similar symptoms during the outbreak, call a dedicated hotline.
医生会给出一个初步筛查，先问你是什么症状，有没有去过意大利、中国、韩国等疫情区，认为有必要做核酸测试的话，会有救护车到家里来接，一般是发烧三天才会给做检测，一旦确诊，再送到医院。
The doctor will give a preliminary screening, first ask what symptoms you are, whether you have been to Italy, China, South Korea and other epidemic areas, and if nucleic acid testing is deemed necessary, an ambulance will come home to pick it up, usually a fever for three days before it is tested and, once diagnosed, sent to hospital.
轻症是不住院的，在家自行隔离。
Minor illness is not hospitalized, isolation at home.
也有一些年轻人，电话打不进去，直接冲到医院急诊室，要求医生给做核酸检测。
There were also young people who couldn't get through the phone and rushed straight to the hospital emergency room and asked the doctor for a nucleic acid test.
这令我的一个医生朋友很生气，他认为这会占用本来就紧张的医疗资源。
This angered one of my doctor's friends, who thought it would take up already stretched medical resources.
去看西班牙的急诊，它是该止血的止血，该止痛的止痛。
To see the Spanish emergency, it is time to stop bleeding, pain relief.
询问病因，那还是要去看普通的家庭医生、专科医生，急诊室不解决这些问题。
Ask the etiology, that still need to see a general family doctor, specialist, the emergency room does not solve these problems.
这与国内截然不同。
This is very different from home.
国内去看急诊，和普通门诊没有太大区别。
There is not much difference between going to an emergency home and going to a general clinic.
但在西班牙，急诊如果判断不是重症，那你就先回家，约专科医生，以免浪费急诊资源。
But in Spain, if an emergency is not judged to be serious, go home first and talk to a specialist to avoid wasting emergency resources.
医院不收新冠轻症，可能这一点，很多在这里的华人不理解。
Hospitals do not accept new coronary disease, perhaps this point, many Chinese here do not understand.
毕竟，目前西班牙还没有类似国内的“方舱医院”。
After all, there is no such thing as a "cabin hospital" in Spain.
上周开始，马德里的学校开始放假。
Schools in Madrid have been closed since last week.
正如前面所说，我们这个岛是西班牙的后花园。
As stated earlier, our island is the back garden of Spain.
很多马德里人在岛上有第二套房子。
Many Madridians have a second home on the island.
在封锁以前，他们都来到海边度假。
Before the blockade, they all went to the seaside for a holiday.
我们这种海边的小城市，平时人口少，床位也相对少一些，不像马德里，人口多，医院也多。
Our small city by the sea has a small population and relatively few beds, unlike Madrid, which has a large population and many hospitals.
这些马德里人跑来了海边，现在正遭到全国人民的谴责。
The Madridians came to the coast and are now being condemned by the whole country.
政府一直在讲，马德里人请你留在马德里，不要把病毒带到全西班牙。
The government has been talking about Madrid asking you to stay in Madrid and not bring the virus to all of Spain.
岛上的人，大家都很害怕。
People on the island. everybody's scared.
我们这边还有游轮，上周三，一艘从意大利过来的游轮经过，3000个游客下来。
We also have cruise ships here. Last Wednesday, a cruise ship from Italy passed by and 3,000 people came down.
虽然给他们测了体温，当晚游轮就走了。
Although the temperature was taken, the cruise ship left that night.
但这个事情，在岛上引起了对政客强烈的谴责。
But the incident triggered a backlash against politicians on the island.
从上周五开始，已经禁止游船停靠，增加补给的除外，但游客禁止下船。
Since Friday, cruise ships have been banned from docking, except for increases in supplies, but visitors are forbidden to disembark.
很多工作，西班牙实施得并没有国内那么细致。
Much of the work in Spain is not as detailed as in Spain.
西班牙卫生部就最初的两起确诊病例召开了一个新闻发布会，记者问到，其中一个是不是在法国滑雪场被感染的，发言人马上说牵涉到病人的隐私，我这边不方便回答。
The Spanish Health Ministry held a press conference on the first two confirmed cases. Reporters asked if one of them had been infected at a French ski resort.
后来，我还是在华人网站上看到，他原来去了阿尔卑斯的一个滑雪场。
Later, I saw on the Chinese website that he had gone to a ski resort in the Alps.
西班牙也有类似居委会这样的组织，但和中国有很大不同。
Spain also has organizations like neighborhood committees, but they are very different from China.
比如说一个楼里8户人家，大家选一个主席。
For example, eight families in a building, everyone chooses a chairman.
日常工作就是负责楼里的水费、电费、清扫费，一起做些楼道翻新工作。
Daily work is responsible for the building's water, electricity, cleaning costs, together with some corridor renovation work.
但他并没有做防控排查的职责。
But he has no role in controlling and screening.
社区防控在西班牙主要是巡逻警察在起作用。
Community control in Spain is largely a function of the patrolling police.
根据西班牙的市民安全法，警察执行职能时，不听劝导、不服从者，或提供虚假资料，拒绝表明身份的，会被处以600到30000欧元的罚款。
Under Spain's citizen security law, the police who, in the exercise of their functions, do not listen to persuasion, disobey or provide false information and refuse to identify themselves are liable to a fine of 600 to 30,000 euros.
但我并不清楚，警察防控力度有多大，能坚持多久。
But I don't know how much control the police have and how long it will last.
巴塞罗那Vall d’Hebrón医院流行病学和防治医学部门主任玛格达·坎平斯在接受《国家报》采访中表示了同样担心，虽然目前西班牙的资源、病床和ICU数量还可控，但如果接下来的一个星期或者10天内，病例数量急剧增长，收治入院的人数达到了各大医院的承受极限，卫生系统可能会瘫痪。
Magda Campins, director of epidemiology and preventive medicine at the Vall d'Hebrón hospital in Barcelona, shared concerns in an interview with El País that, while the number of resources, beds and ICUs in Spain was manageable, the number of cases would increase dramatically over the next week or 10 days, stretching the capacity of hospitals to accommodate them and potentially paralysing the health system.
“但是也要向人们强调，要非常注意公共卫生方面的建议。
"But it is also important to stress that great attention should be paid to the public health recommendations.
在中国，所有措施都被严格地贯彻落实了，因为他们非常自律。
In China, all measures are strictly enforced, because they are very self-disciplined.
我们是拉丁裔，我们没有那么循规蹈矩。
We're Latino. We're not so regular.
人们需要有责任感。
People need a sense of responsibility.
”玛格达说。
"said Magda.
谭卓曌|撰稿微信号：tzz19930706季敏华|责编微信号：janejiminhua致读者：“八点健闻”公众号将于4月11日恢复更新。
Writing microsignal: Tzzz 19930706 & # 124; & quot; microsignal: janejiminhua to readers: "Eight Keeps" will resume updating on April 11.
在此之前，我们在“八点健闻Plus”发表报道。
Before that, we published a report at Eight Point Health Plus.
敬请关注。
Attention, please.
我们尊重原创版权，未经授权请勿转载。
We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
郑琪|授权转载微信号：1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922反馈交流，加入核心读者群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
CHENG Chi-chi & # 124; Authorize the Reproduction of Microsignals: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 feedback exchange, join the core readership, sweep code to let friends see you, too.
健闻谭卓曌。
My name is Tam.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
已喜欢，对作者说句悄悄话。
Like it, whisper to the author.
发送给作者。
Send to author.
最多40字，当前共字。
Up to 40 words, currently in common.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
西班牙疫情“至暗时刻”：从隔岸观火到全境封锁。
The Spanish epidemic "darkens": from watching the fires to blockading the entire country.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "西班牙疫情“至暗时刻”：从隔岸观火到全境封锁";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; Spain's "darkest hour": at least & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; across the border.
var msg_desc = "3月上旬的几场万人集会后，确诊病例数成倍增长";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
