疫苗往事：一场技术、金钱与运气组队的竞赛。
Vaccine Past: A Match of Technology, Money and Luck.
吴晔婷季敏华莫杨。
Wu selected season Minhua Yang.
八点健闻Plus                      。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻Plus。
Eight minutes plus.
八点健闻分号，好看的健康商业报道。
Eight Jianwen semicolon, Good-looking Health Business Report.
。
.
新冠疫苗研发是一场世界级的竞赛。
Crowne vaccine development is a world-class competition.
在中国，迄今投入研发的机构与企业达57家；在海外，宣布投入研发的机构与企业约39家。
So far, 57 institutions and enterprises have invested in R & D in China, and some 39 institutions and enterprises have announced investment overseas.
2003年“非典”以来，到此次新冠疫情之前，中国曾三次卷入疫苗”世界大赛“。
Since SARS in 2003, China had been involved in the world vaccine contest three times before the new outbreak.
今天这篇文章，为大家讲述当年的“中国队”选手北京科兴、天津康希诺的疫苗往事。
Today's article tells us about the "Chinese team" of the Beijing Koxing, Tianjin Conshino vaccine past.
2020年1月10日，中国科学家上传了新型冠状病毒的全基因序列——一组拥有3万个“生化字母”的遗传密码。
On January 10, 2020, Chinese scientists uploaded the full genetic sequence of the new coronavirus - a set of 30,000 "biochemical letters."
一万公里之外，美国波士顿一家名叫Moderna的生物科创公司下载了这串密码。
Ten thousand kilometers away, Moderna, a Boston biotech firm, downloaded the code.
那一刻，一场世界级疫苗研发竞赛的发令枪就正式打响了。
At that moment, a world-class vaccine development competition starter gun officially opened.
国内外近百家机构参与新冠疫苗竞赛2月21日，Moderna将数十剂“临床级疫苗”（可用于人体临床试验）装车运往美国国家卫生研究院（NIH），计划在4月启动人体临床试验。
MODERNA on Feb. 21, 2004, shipped dozens of doses of "clinical vaccines" (which can be used in human clinical trials) to the National Institutes of Health (NIH), scheduled to start human clinical trials in April.
Moderna疫苗使用m-RNA技术，无需病毒毒株，即可在病毒基因测序基础上，以新的结构生物学工具直接合成病毒。
Using m-RNA technology, the Moderna vaccine is able to synthesize viruses directly using new structural biological tools, based on viral gene sequencing, without viral strains.
2月28日，国务院领导考察新冠药品研发进展。
On February 28, the State Council led an investigation into the development of new-crown drugs.
有专家汇报，中国在灭活疫苗上的研制能力雄厚，最快有望在4月启动临床试验。
Experts report that China has a strong development capability for inactivated vaccines and expects to start clinical trials as soon as April.
3月3日，央视报道，军事医学科学院陈薇院士主导的腺病毒载体新冠疫苗研发，已“取得重要阶段性成果”。
On March 3, CCTV reported that Academician Chen Wei of the Academy of Military Medicine led the research and development of a new crown vaccine carrier, has "achieved important milestones."
此时，世界范围内，一场新冠疫苗竞赛已千帆竞发。
At this time, the world over, a new crown vaccine competition has been issued.
根据和君医药的不完全统计，在中国，投入研发的机构与企业达57家，包括36家制药和生物技术企业、21家科研机构与学术团体，中央地方、体制内外齐头并进，蔚为大观。
According to incomplete statistics of Hejun Medicine, 57 institutions and enterprises have been engaged in R & D in China, including 36 pharmaceutical and biotechnological enterprises, 21 scientific research institutions and academic organizations.
在海外，宣布投入研发的机构与企业约39家，除Moderna这样的科创企业，亦有强生、赛诺菲、葛兰素史克等药企巨头的身影，以及昆士兰大学、美国CDC下属过敏和传染病研究所等知名机构。
Overseas, about 39 companies have announced investments in research and development, including tech start-ups such as Moderna, pharmaceutical giants such as Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline, and well-known institutions such as the University of Queensland and the CDC Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
国人对“中国队”寄予厚望。
The Chinese have high hopes for the Chinese team.
在不少人看来，疫苗竞赛关乎科技实力与国家竞争力。
For many, the vaccine race is about technological prowess and national competitiveness.
而在全球疫苗研发及产业界眼中，疫苗竞赛似乎处于另一种语境：它首先是一项商业战略抉择，其次是技术选型，并持续考验融资、市场推广、政策评估与全球市场配置等多种能力。
In the eyes of global vaccine research and development and industry, the vaccine race seems to be in a different context: it is first a commercial strategic choice, followed by technology selection, and continues to test a variety of capabilities, including financing, marketing, policy evaluation, and global market allocation.
最后，疫苗研制能否成功，似乎还有赖于某种谁也无法预料和掌握的——运气。
Finally, the success of vaccine development seems to depend on some kind of luck that no one can predict or master.
作为一种生物制品的疫苗，对付的恰恰是最难预料最不可控的微生物——细菌或病毒。
The vaccine, a biological product, deals with precisely the most unpredictable microbes - bacteria or viruses.
耗费巨大、耗时长久的疫苗研制出来，而对付的敌人却突然无影无踪，这样的故事并不少见。
It is not uncommon for a huge, time-consuming vaccine to be developed and its enemies suddenly disappeared.
历史的启示并不遥远：2003年“非典”爆发至今17年，中国曾三次卷入世界级的疫苗竞赛——从SARS疫苗，到2009甲型H1N1流感疫苗，再到2017年埃博拉疫苗。
The lesson of history is not far off: 17 years after the outbreak of SARS in 2003, China has been involved in three world-class vaccine competitions - from SARS vaccines to influenza A (H1N1) 2009 to Ebola vaccines in 2017.
参与那三场疫苗竞赛的主角们，例如北京科兴和康希诺，如今也正身处新冠疫苗的竞赛场中。
The protagonists in the three vaccine competitions, such as Beijing's Koshing and Consino, are now in the race for a new crown vaccine.
它们的奋斗故事彼此交织、延展至今，再次揭示了“疫苗江湖”的复杂与波折，远超常识所见。
Their struggle stories are interwoven and extended to this day, revealing once again the complexity and twists and turns of the "vaccine," far more than common sense can see.
2004年 ，戛然而止的SARS疫苗研发2003年，“非典”肆虐神州。
In 2004, the sudden end of the SARS vaccine research and development in 2003, "SARS" ravaging China.
这年4月末，成立仅两年的北京科兴生物制品有限公司，向政府申请研发SARS疫苗。
In late April, only two years after its establishment, Beijing Koxing Biological Products Co., Ltd. applied to the government for the development of SARS vaccine.
数日后，科技部将“SARS灭活疫苗”研究课题立项。
A few days later, the Ministry of Science and Technology will "SARS inactivated vaccine" research project.
5月初，科技部又将其列入国家863重大计划项目。
In early May, the Ministry of Science and Technology added it to the National 863 Major Planning Project.
课题组由北京科兴联合两家“国字头”科研单位——中国医学科学院试验动物研究所、国家疾控中心病毒预防控制所共同组成，另有中日友好医院的医护人员参与，总计投入逾百人。
The group is composed of two scientific research units, the Institute of Experimental Animals of the Chinese Academy of Medicine and the Virus Prevention and Control Institute of the National CDC.
据北京科兴的纪念文章披露，SARS疫苗研制“攻克了寻找保护性反应、确定毒种、疫苗灭活等七大科研难题，建立了生产工艺和质量控制方法，具备了小批量生产的技术能力”。
According to a commemorative article by Koxing in Beijing, SARS vaccine development "has overcome seven major scientific research challenges, including finding protective responses, identifying poisonous species and inactivating vaccines, established production processes and quality control methods, and acquired the technical ability to produce small quantities."
历时一年八个月的奋斗，2004年12月5日，科技部、卫生部与国家食药监局联合宣布，SARS灭活疫苗1期临床研究完成，研究难关基本攻克。
On December 5, 2004, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Health and the State Administration of Food and Drug Administration jointly announced the completion of the first phase of the clinical study on SARS inactivated vaccine.
然而，研发至此戛然而止。
Yet R & D came to an abrupt end.
盖因“非典”疫情早自2003年入夏即倏忽弥散，此后至2004年虽有零星病例，却再未卷土重来。
The outbreak of SARS spread as early as the summer of 2003 and has not returned since then, despite sporadic cases, until 2004.
从实操层面讲，疫苗必须经过三期临床试验，从首期的数十人样本，到二期的数百人，至三期往往要达到数千例。
Operationally, the vaccine must undergo three clinical trials, ranging from dozens of samples in the first phase to hundreds in the second, often reaching thousands in the third.
病毒消失，也就意味临床试验无法科学开展，因为对照组和实验组都不再有感染病毒的机会。
The disappearance of the virus meant that the clinical trials could not be carried out scientifically, as neither the control group nor the experimental group had any chance of contracting the virus.
此后，据称北京科兴的SARS曾被纳入国家疫苗战略储备。
Since then, SARS in Koxing, Beijing, is said to have been included in the national vaccine strategic reserve.
然彼时至今，这一储备业已十余年，而“非典”一去不复还，英雄再无用武之地。
At that time to date, this reserve has been more than a decade, and the "SARS" will never be returned, the hero no longer useful.
北京科兴，有点另类的疫苗企业国内大多数的疫苗企业创始人或负责人都是销售、财务出身。
Beijing Kexing, a little alternative vaccine companies in the country most of the vaccine companies founder or responsible are sales, financial origin.
这和大多数企业是销售主导有关，君临投研机构在一篇文章中把中国的疫苗产业描述为：典型的“两条腿一大一小走路”的驱动模式，研发是小腿，销售是大腿。
This has to do with the fact that most companies are sales-led. In an article, the ICI describes the Chinese vaccine industry as a typical "two-legged, one-and-a-half-walking" model, with R & D involving the lower leg and sales of the thigh.
北京科兴算是“另类”，尹卫东虽然只是中专毕业，在研发上却卓有成就。
Beijing Kexing is an "alternative", although Yin Wei-dong is only a secondary school graduates, but in research and development has made great achievements.
尹卫东1964年生于河北唐山，18岁卫校毕业后分配至唐山市防疫站流行病科工作，1992年下海，在唐山注册了一个10万元的公司。
Born in 1964 in Tangshan, Hebei Province, Yin Wai-dong was born in 1964. After graduating from the 18-year-old health school, he was assigned to the Epidemiology Section of Tangshan Prophylaxis Station.
△尹卫东1999年尹在国内率先研发出甲肝灭活疫苗，却缺乏资金独立投产，遂上京城投靠中关村生物科研界的“大人物”，终于得以在2001年5月注册北京科兴。
After Yin Wei-dong first developed the inactivated hepatitis A vaccine in China in 1999, but lacked the funds to start production independently, he joined the "big man" in the biological research field of Zhongguancun and was finally able to register Koxing in Beijing in May 2001.
然而，大股东不是他，为后来公司控制权争斗埋下了隐患。
However, the majority shareholder is not him, for later the company control struggle planted the hidden danger.
虽说重研发，尹卫东在销售上也不遗余力，查看财报，科兴销售费用长期高于研发费用。
Although the redevelopment, Yin Wei-dong in sales also spared no effort to see the results, Kexing sales costs have long been higher than research and development costs.
北京科兴成立第二年，甲肝灭活疫苗宣告上市。
Beijing Koxing set up the second year, hepatitis A inactivated vaccine announced on the market.
此时，距尹卫东下海创业已届10年，也是他向成功企业家迈进的里程碑式的一年。
At this time, Yin Wei-dong business has been 10 years, is also his successful entrepreneurs into a milestone year.
出身疾控口的尹卫东，不会不知道疫苗企业的命运，与体制内密切相关——在中国，疫苗采购、分发、接种的主要组织者是各级疾控中心，而各级疾控中心又归属各级卫生主管部门。
Yin Weidong, who comes from the CDC, will not be unaware of the fate of vaccine companies and is closely linked to the system - in China, the main organizers of vaccine procurement, distribution, and vaccination are the CDC's at all levels, which in turn belong to health authorities at all levels.
2003年，看准SARS疫苗的机遇，尹卫东决定奋力一搏，与卫生疾控系统的“国字头”联合研发。
In 2003, seeing the opportunity for a SARS vaccine, Yin decided to fight for it, working with the "Chinese character" of the health system.
这其中，固然不乏为国效力的雄心大志，亦恐有下海企业家的特有敏锐与筹谋。
Of these, there is no lack of ambition to serve the country, but also afraid of the unique sensitivity and planning of entrepreneurs.
在中国疫苗界，科研机构与企业合作研发，十分常见。
In the Chinese vaccine industry, it is common for research institutes to collaborate with companies in research and development.
一方面，科研机构虽有技术实力，但疫苗研制不仅靠上游的实验室研究，还需临床试验的申请及部署、生产工艺与质量的控制、上市注册等一整套的产学研流程，因此需要与成熟的疫苗企业合作。
On the one hand, scientific research institutions have the technical strength, but vaccine development depends not only on upstream laboratory research, but also on the application and deployment of clinical trials, the control of production processes and quality, and the registration of the market, thus requiring collaboration with mature vaccine companies.
另一方面，中国疫苗企业大多是生产、销售出身，早期研发能力有限，需要与科研机构携手方能取得新产品研发突破。
On the other hand, China's vaccine enterprises are mostly production and sales origin, early research and development capacity is limited, need to work with scientific research institutions to achieve new product development breakthroughs.
回想当年，为全力投入SARS疫苗研制，北京科兴一度停掉了主营业务的甲肝疫苗生产线，因此出现持续亏损。
Back then, Beijing's Koxing, which shut down its main production line for hepatitis A vaccine to concentrate on the SARS vaccine, continued to lose money.
北京科兴总经理尹卫东曾在2011年公司十周年庆典上动情回忆：SARS疫苗研发的关键阶段，公司开不起工资，有9名员工“把自己家里的一点积蓄都借给了公司。
Yin Weidong, Beijing's general manager for Koshing, recalled during the company's 10th anniversary celebrations in 2011 that the company could not afford to pay for the SARS vaccine and that nine employees "lent all their savings to the company.
用这些借来的资金，我们给全体员工发了三个月的工资”。
With the borrowed money, we pay our entire staff three months' salary.
孰料SARS疫苗研制戛然而止，北京科兴奋战近两年，而于商业上并无所获。
When the SARS vaccine came to an end, Beijing Branch was excited for nearly two years, but did not achieve anything commercially.
公开财报显示，2006年之前的北京科兴，年收入不过千万元人民币级别。
Before 2006, Koxing in Beijing had annual revenues of less than Rmb10m, according to the results.
以家底单薄的初生企业之身，闯入冠状病毒疫苗研发的世界级战场，历经峰高浪急的“疫苗江湖”，个中况味，恐怕只有尹卫东内心自知。
With the thin body of the primary enterprise, break into the world-class research and development of coronavirus vaccine, after the peak of the high-speed "vaccine," the taste, I am afraid only Yin Wei-tung's heart.
然而，机会还会再来。
However, opportunities will come again.
2009年H1N1大流行，87天的“中国制造”2009年3月间，甲型H1N1流感疫情在墨西哥、美国爆发，迅即席卷全球。
The 2009 H1N1 pandemic, the 87-day "Made in China" March 2009, influenza A (H1N1) outbreak in Mexico, the United States, quickly swept the world.
6月，中国在获得H1N1病毒标准毒株后，包括北京科兴在内的10家企业均投入了H1N1疫苗的研发，科兴是唯一一家获得国家食药监局(SFDA)大流行流感疫苗生产批件的企业。
In June, after China acquired a standard strain of H1N1 virus, 10 companies, including Beijing's Koxing, invested in the development of H1N1 vaccines, the only company to have received a pandemic flu vaccine approval from the State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA).
此时的科兴仍算不上大企业，2008年总收入2.45亿元人民币，其中老本行肝炎疫苗收入2.1亿元，流感疫苗收入仅3500万，为何能获得国家交办的如此重大的研发任务？重大机遇绝非天上掉下来的。
With a total income of 245 million yuan in 2008, including 210 million yuan for hepatitis vaccines and 35 million yuan for influenza vaccines, the company is still not a big enterprise.
2004年末SARS疫苗无疾而终之后，科兴一方面回归肝炎疫苗主业，一方面继续与体制内合作。
After the SARS vaccine died in late 2004, Koxing went back to the main hepatitis vaccine industry and continued to work with the system.
2005年，科兴与国家疾控中心共同承担了“十五”国家科技攻关项目“人用禽流感疫苗研制”。
In 2005, Coxing and the National CDC jointly undertook the "Tenth Five-Year" national science and technology project "Avian influenza vaccine development for human beings."
2008年，上述项目最终落地为北京科兴的一款大流行流感疫苗“Panflu”（中文取名颇为吉利的“盼尔来福”），当年获准生产上市。
In 2008, the project eventually landed as a pandemic influenza vaccine "Panfluu" in Koxing, Beijing, which was allowed to go on the market that year.
正是2008年落地的这款“盼尔来福”，为科兴带来了2009年的“福报”。
It was the "long-awaited Laifu" that landed in 2008, bringing Coxing the "good news" in 2009.
科兴内部人士告诉八点健闻，2009甲型H1N1流感病毒相对简单，是人类已熟知的HN系列甲流病毒之一种，而科兴在同为HN系列的人用禽流感疫苗中的成熟研发经验，很快派上了用场—— “本质上就是更换了一个毒株，然后在甲流疫苗的标准流程中研发生产”。
Coxing insiders told Eight H1N1 that the 2009 H1N1 virus was relatively simple and was one of the well-known HN series of influenza A viruses, while Koshing's mature research and development experience in human avian influenza vaccines for HN series soon came into use - "essentially replacing a toxin plant and then developing it in the standard process of influenza A vaccine."
此后，便是广为人知的一段佳话——北京科兴仅用87天，于当年9月完成了从疫苗研发至上市的全过程。
Since then, there has been a well-known anecdote - Beijing's Koxing completed its journey from vaccine development to marketing in September of that year in only 87 days.
及至10月末，中国已经制造并投放国内市场5700万剂疫苗。
By the end of October, China had manufactured and launched 57 million doses of vaccines for the domestic market.
相比之下，美国直到10月初才落实接种第一剂疫苗，因产能滞后，10月间疫苗一度紧缺，直至当年12月末方能充分供给。
By contrast, the United States did not implement the first dose until early October, when full supplies were not available until the end of December, owing to a shortage of vaccine capacity.
至2010年3月H1N1大流感行进尾声时，中国累计签批发H1N1疫苗1.2亿人份，累计接种人数9570万。
By the end of the H1N1 influenza pandemic in March 2010, China had signed a cumulative total of 120 million H1N1 vaccines and 95.7 million vaccinations.
此举，为中国赢得WHO及美国等多个国家之赞誉。
The move has won praise from the World Health Organization and the United States, among others.
北京科兴亦一战成名。
Beijing Koxing also became famous in World War I.
这一回，科兴获得了可观的经济回报：当年售出H1N1疫苗1008万剂，收入2亿元。
This time around, the company has reaped considerable economic returns: it sold 10.08 million doses of H1N1 that year, generating $200 million in revenue.
此外，普通流感疫苗收入亦因疫情而大卖，创收1亿元。
In addition, ordinary influenza vaccine revenue due to the epidemic sales, income of $100 million.
公司流感疫苗总收入破3亿，拉动公司全年营收突破5.7亿元，较上年几乎增长一倍。
The company's flu vaccine revenue broke 300 million, pulling the company's annual revenue over 570 million yuan, almost double the previous year.
回报还不仅如此。
The payoff is more than that.
就在2009年，尹卫东以一个漂亮的“中国疫苗故事”，带领科兴控股（控股北京科兴逾70%）在美国纳斯达克上市。
Just in 2009, Yin led Koshing Holdings (controlling more than 70 per cent of Beijing's Koxing) to a US Nasdaq listing with a beautiful "Chinese vaccine story."
此后，波折再起。
After that, the ups and downs.
在中国，疫苗实施分类监管。
In China, vaccines are regulated by classification.
一类疫苗由法律强制接种，并由政府出资供相应人群免费接种。
Vaccination of this type is compulsory by law and is provided free of charge to the corresponding population at the expense of the Government.
二类疫苗由国民自费、自愿受种。
Category II vaccines are administered voluntarily and at the expense of the national population.
当2009年甲型H1N1流感爆发时，政府紧急采购疫苗并免费供应市场，然而2010年大流感在全球退潮，H1N1疫苗随即被列入二类，政府不再采购。
When the influenza A (H1N1) outbreak occurred in 2009, the Government procured vaccines on an emergency basis and supplied them free of charge to the market. However, the global tide of the 2010 influenza pandemic brought H1N1 vaccines into category II, which the Government no longer procures.
对北京科兴来说，2009年的巨额流感疫苗收入宛如昙花一现，从此失不再来。
For Beijing's Koxing, the huge flu vaccine revenues of 2009 were a flash in the pan and never came back.
从2004年全力挺进SARS疫苗研发，到2009年抓住大流感疫情打了一场漂亮仗，“紧随形势”的疫苗研发，总体上并未给北京科兴带来持续的市场份额与商业收益。
Since 2004, when efforts to develop a vaccine against SARS were well under way, and 2009 saw a spectacular campaign to capture the pandemic, "situation-following" vaccine development has generally failed to provide Beijing with sustained market share and commercial gains.
这或许令尹卫东再一次体会到了疫苗江湖之水深浪阔，正可谓“江湖多风波，舟辑恐失坠”。
This may make Yin Wai-tung experience once again the depth of the vaccine river and lake, can be described as "more trouble, Zhouzhi lost fall."
江湖代有人才出。
Talents come from every generation.
就在北京科兴一战成名的2009年，一家全新的疫苗公司在天津诞生了。
In 2009, the year Beijing became famous for Koxing, a new vaccine company was born in Tianjin.
2014-2017年，康希诺与埃博拉疫苗如果说跟其他疫苗企业相比，科兴有点“另类”，那么康希诺则更是“异类”——由生物科学家发起创立，以研发为核心，成立多年并无任何在售产品。
In 2014-2017, if Corsino and Ebola vaccines were a bit of an outlier compared to other vaccine companies, Consino was a "different" - one created by biological scientists with R & amp; D at its core, with no products on the market for many years.
康希诺2009年1月成立于天津，据创始人宇学峰自述，公司成立的想法源于十年前的几杯啤酒：“那是一个盛夏的午后，在加拿大多伦多郊区一个宽敞的后院，我和一群疫苗领域的同事与好友们，……几杯啤酒下肚……聊起中国与北美在疫苗产品工艺、质量方面的巨大差距……”，在安逸、收入丰厚的跨国药企高管、科学家和回国重新开始做一个创业者之间，宇学峰和同道选择了后者。
Founded in Tianjin in January 2009, the company's founding idea, according to its founder Yu Xuefeng, stems from several beers a decade ago: "It was a midsummer afternoon in a spacious back yard in a Toronto suburb of Canada, where I talked about the huge gap between China and North America in terms of technology and quality of vaccine products.
△宇学峰那时，45岁的宇学峰是赛诺菲巴斯德全球细菌疫苗开发总监。
By then, Yuxue Feng, 45, was director of global bacterial vaccine development at Sanofi Pasteur.
此后几年，康希诺主攻脑膜炎、百白破、结核病等数种传染病的疫苗。
Over the next few years, Consino focused on several infectious diseases, including meningitis, whooping cough, and tuberculosis.
就像2003年的北京科兴遇上了SARS，2014年的康希诺遇上了埃博拉。
As in 2003, when Koxing, Beijing, was hit by SARS, in 2014, Conshino was hit by Ebola.
埃博拉病毒最早出现于1976年，袭击了位于中非的刚果民主共和国、苏丹。
The Ebola virus first appeared in 1976, attacking the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Sudan in Central Africa.
当年，两国经统计的感染者602人，死亡人数431人，死亡率高达72%。
There were 602 recorded cases and 431 deaths in the two countries that year, a mortality rate of 72 per cent.
此后，埃博拉病毒在中非一带零星游荡，至2013年,全球共有2387例埃博拉患者,其中1590人死亡。
Since then, Ebola has been sporadic throughout Central Africa, with a total of 2,387 Ebola cases worldwide by 2013, including 1,590 deaths.
直到2014年，埃博拉病毒发生了“革命性质变”——一是突然从中非奔袭西非三国：几内亚、塞拉利昂和利比里亚。
Until 2014, the Ebola virus underwent a "revolutionary transformation" - a sudden shift from Central Africa to three West African countries: Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia.
二是，感染和死亡人数暴增，2014年-16年三年间，西非三国感染人数高达2.86万，死亡人数1.13万，整体死亡率高达40%。
Second, the number of infections and deaths has skyrocketed, with 28,600 infections and 11,300 deaths in three West African countries in 2014-16 years, with an overall mortality rate of 40 per cent.
2014年之前，埃博拉传染病例虽不多，但死亡率令人闻风丧胆。
Until 2014, the number of cases of the Ebola epidemic was low, but the death rate was debilitating.
这激发了全球不少科研机构研发药物及疫苗的激情和动力。
This has stimulated the passion and drive of many scientific research institutions around the world to develop drugs and vaccines.
2004年之后，军事医学科学院研究员陈薇领导的团队选中了埃博拉病毒疫苗作为研究对象，“致死率那么高，如果能研制出疫苗，降伏病魔，这是全世界疫苗科学家攀登的高峰，也是我的科学梦想。
After 2004, a team led by Chen Wei, a researcher at the Academy of Military Medicine, selected the Ebola vaccine as the subject of the study. "The death rate is so high that if a vaccine could be developed and the disease could be overcome, it would be the peak for vaccine scientists around the world and my scientific dream.
”陈薇曾如是说。
"Chen said.
在其后的十年研究中，陈薇团队以“换道超车”的思维模式，开展自主研发，期间排除了灭活、病毒样颗粒与DNA等多种技术方式，最终确立了病毒载体疫苗的方式。
In the following ten years, Chen Wei's team carried out independent research and development based on the thinking mode of "changing the way to overtake," during which inactivated, virus-like particles and DNA were excluded.
时至2014年，当埃博拉疫情在西非三国爆发，陈薇团队与康希诺合作，决心冲刺埃博拉疫苗研发。
By 2014, when the Ebola epidemic broke out in three West African countries, Chen's team, in partnership with Consino, was determined to sprint toward Ebola vaccine development.
康希诺在2014年决定抓住埃博拉疫苗的机遇，与整整十年前北京科兴抓住SARS疫苗的机遇，颇有类似之处：两家企业都是创业不久、资金实力并不雄厚的生物科创小企业；两位掌门人同为1964年生人，虽有“土鳖海龟”之别，然而一样兼具科学家与企业家的双重精神；两家企业都选择与体制内合作，或许透露出中国疫苗企业对于体制内的天然依存性；相隔十年，“非典”与埃博拉都是震惊世界的疫情，前者发生在中国，后者发生在中国对外援助最集中的非洲，抗疫均关涉国家战略。
Consino's decision in 2014 to seize the opportunity of an Ebola vaccine is similar to Beijing's Koshing's opportunity to capture the SARS vaccine a decade ago: both start-ups and poorly funded small-scale biologists; both men born in 1964 may share the same natural dependence on the system as Chinese vaccine companies; ten years apart, SARS and Ebola are both shocks to the world.
两家企业都敏锐地抓住了抗疫背后的巨大商机：尹卫东尽管搏错了第一次，但随后数年仍迎来了巨大的回报。
Both companies have nimbly grasped the huge business opportunity behind the epidemic: Yin Wai-tung, despite his first mismatch, saw a huge payoff in the years that followed.
这次，形势看似更加明朗，宇学峰决定勇往直前。
This time, the situation seems clearer, Yu Xuefeng decided to forge ahead.
当时，正值国家深化药品审评审批制度、鼓励药品创新的大背景。
At that time, the country was deepening the examination and approval system for pharmaceutical products and encouraging drug innovation.
2015年1月，毕井泉履新国家食药监总局局长。
In January 2015, the Director-General of the State Administration of Food and Drug Administration.
当月，国家食药监总局受理埃博拉疫苗临床试验申请，立即启动特别审批程序，成立专门工作小组，同步进行现场核查、技术审评和样品检验。
In the same month, the General Administration of Food and Drug Administration accepted applications for clinical trials of Ebola vaccines, immediately initiated a special approval process and set up a special working group to conduct simultaneous on-site verification, technical evaluation and sample testing.
2月13日，即批准了临床试验。
Clinical trials were approved on 13 February.
2015年起，康希诺团队分批赶赴西非塞拉利昂开展临床试验。
Starting in 2015, the Consino team went to Sierra Leone in batches to conduct clinical trials in West Africa.
临床试验总计做了两期，其中二期临床试验参与者达500人，结果曾发表在《柳叶刀》上。
A total of two clinical trials were conducted, with 500 participants in phase II clinical trials, the results of which were published in The Lancet.
试验显示：康希诺的疫苗Ad5-EBOV在28天内激发强烈抗体反应，显示成效明显；从第168天时，抗体反应开始明显衰减——这与当时另一款由药企巨头默沙东研发的试验疫苗“V920”的临床试验“表现一致”。
Tests showed that Consino's vaccine, Ad5-EBOV, triggered a strong antibody response within 28 days, and that the antibody response began to decline significantly from day 168 - a "consistent performance" with clinical trials of the then experimental vaccine, V920, developed by drug giant Mercado.
Ad5-EBOV有一个明显优势。
Ad5-EBOV has one clear advantage.
它采用了一种“冻干技术”，可使疫苗在4摄氏度下保存很长时间，并在37摄氏度下保持稳定约三周。
It uses a "freeze-drying technique" that keeps vaccines at 4oC for a long time and stays stable at 37C for about three weeks.
相比之下，液体剂型的V920必须保存在 -70 摄氏度以下，在4摄氏度条件下仅能稳定一周。
In contrast, the liquid formulation V920 must be kept below -70 ° C, stabilizing at 4 ° C for only one week.
这使得Ad5-EBOV在非洲大陆更具优势。
This gives Ad5-EBOV an edge on the African continent.
2017年10月，Ad5-EBOV获国家药监局批准上市，而国际巨头默沙东、强生和葛兰素史克的埃博拉疫苗尚未在任何国家获得正式审批。
In October 2017, Ad5-EBOV was approved for listing by the State Administration of Medicines, while international giants Mercado, Johnson & Johnson and GlaxoSmithKline's Ebola vaccine have not yet been officially approved in any country.
然而此时，埃博拉疫情在西非骤然消退，康希诺陷入2004年末北京科兴同样的困境。
By this time, however, the Ebola epidemic was rapidly receding in West Africa, with Consino in the same predicament in Beijing in late 2004.
一方面，康希诺深知，埃博拉主战场在非洲，EBOV在中国获批只意味着可以在中国市场生产使用，欲打入真正的非洲主场，必须向WHO、世界几大疫苗采购组织、非洲各国政府作持续努力，力争推荐、认证和审批，才有可能获得采购订单，一切才刚刚开始。
On the one hand, Conshino understands that Ebola's main battleground is in Africa, that EBOV approval in China means only that it can be used in the Chinese market, and that a sustained effort to recommend, certify, and approve purchase orders from the World Health Organization, the world's major vaccine purchasing organizations, and African governments is essential.
另一方面，埃博拉疫情在2017年消退，这次会否像1980年代一样，再次消声灭迹十几年？埃博拉再来，默沙东的机会这一次来得很快。
On the other hand, will the Ebola outbreak subside in 2017, as it did in the 1980 "s, and will it disappear again for more than a decade?
2018年，埃博拉卷土重来。
In 2018, Ebola returned.
这年春季，疫情再次爆发于中非的刚果，截至2020年1月末， 持续了近两年的这波疫情已确诊3302例，2242人死亡，死亡率还是高得可怕——68%。
In late January 2020, 3,302 cases, 2,242 deaths, were diagnosed, and the death rate, 68 per cent, was still very high.
但机会没有降临康希诺。
But opportunity did not come to Consino.
2018年5月，经WHO推荐，默沙东在刚果部署试验疫苗V920的接种，方式是几年前在几内亚实施的“包围接种” ——即以感染者为中心划出一个环，涵盖近期与感染者有直接或间接接触的高风险人员，对这些人接种疫苗。
In May 2018, Mercado, recommended by the World Health Organization, deployed a pilot vaccine, V920, in the Congo, in the form of an "encirclement" in Guinea a few years ago - that is, to vaccinate infected people who have recently come into direct or indirect contact with those at high risk.
据称接种有效率达到100%。
Vaccination efficiency was reported to reach 100 per cent.
WHO非洲区干事当时曾表示，V920的最大挑战是储存温度，它要求在负60-负80摄氏度的低温下保存，在非洲部署起来十分困难。
The WHO Regional Officer for Africa had said at the time that the biggest challenge for the V920 was storage temperatures, which required storage at temperatures ranging from minus 60 to minus 80 degrees Celsius, making deployment difficult in Africa.
但即便如此，无论是WHO还是刚果政府，都并未采用储运更方便、且在上一年已获中国审批注册的康希诺Ad5-EBOV疫苗。
Even so, neither the WHO nor the Congolese government has adopted the Consino Ad5-EBOV vaccine, which is more convenient for storage and transportation and was approved for registration in China the previous year.
2019年11月-12月，默沙东的正式版埃博拉疫苗“ERVEBO”先后获得欧盟批准、WHO预认证和FDA批准。
From November to December 2019, Merseyton's official version of the Ebola vaccine, ERVEBO, was approved by the European Union, pre-certified by WHO, and approved by the FDA.
在2018-19年期间，康希诺同样费尽气力推广EBOV：与中国有关部门商谈，希望获得支持将疫苗推向非洲，但一直“没有准信”。
In 2018-19, Conshino similarly struggled to promote EBOV: talks with Chinese authorities aimed at securing support for the introduction of vaccines to Africa have been "discredited."
向WHO申请“预认证”（ Prequalification， 相当于WHO体系内的一种药品监管认证，获预认证后可用于特定情况下的使用，如V920在几内亚、刚果的“包围接种”），但一直未果。
A request to the World Health Organization for "pre-certification," equivalent to a WHO-based regulatory certification of a drug, can be used in specific situations, such as the V 920 "encirclement vaccination" in Guinea and Congo, but without success.
2019年6月，刚果卫生部曾主动联系康希诺，欢迎在当地做临床测试。
In June 2019, the Congolese Ministry of Health took the initiative of contacting Consino to welcome local clinical testing.
然而由于刚果政府不承诺成本分担，“我们得自己承担费用。
But since the Congolese government is not committed to cost-sharing, "we have to bear the costs ourselves."
我们难以承担临床试验的成本。
We cannot afford clinical trials.
”宇学峰事后坦承。
"Yu Xuefeng later admitted.
在埃博拉疫苗商业化上逡巡不前的康希诺，却也因创造了“中国第一”而声名鹊起。
Consino, who balked at the commercialization of the Ebola vaccine, became famous for creating "China first."
2018年7月，康希诺向港交所申请上市，孰料当月遭遇“长生疫苗事件”，中国疫苗市场受到境外资本市场质疑，康希诺上市受阻。
In July 2018, Consino filed for a listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx), which came under "Long Live Vaccine Incident." The Chinese vaccine market was challenged by foreign capital markets and Consino's listing was blocked.
此后经过一番等待与重整，康希诺终于在2019年3月28日挂牌港股，筹资逾10亿港元，当天股价大涨近60%，收于34.7港元。
After a bit of waiting and re-engineering, he ended up raising more than HK $1 billion on March 28, 2019, when its shares jumped nearly 60% to HK $34.7.
迄今，康希诺股价已较IPO翻了一倍不止。
So far, the company has more than doubled its IPO price.
作为一家上市前无任何在售产品、也无任何主营收入的生物创业企业，康希诺在资本市场的斩获可谓丰厚。
As a biotech firm with no product on the market and no main revenue, Mr. Connor has made good money in the capital markets.
这其中，EBOV疫苗是否起到了助力作用？在港股上市招股书中，康希诺坦承，尽管EBOV得到中国药监局的批准，但“仅可作紧急使用和国家储备”。
Among them, has the EBOV vaccine helped? In its Hong Kong offering, Mr. Connor conceded that although EBOV was approved by China's Drug Administration, it was "only for emergency use and national reserves."
“EBOV的全球库存及应急用途市场有限，于未来十年将维持于每年200万人民币，预计到2030年潜在游客市场规模将少于300万元人民币。
"The EBOV has a limited global inventory and emergency market, which will remain at Rmb2m a year for the next decade and is expected to reach less than Rmb3m by 2030."
”即便如此，有港股分析师认为，埃博拉病毒的研发之于康希诺，起到了某种品牌作用，可归于公司ESG（环境、社会责任与治理能力）战略业绩的突出表现。
Even so, some Hong Kong stock analysts believe that the development of the Ebola virus was part of a brand that could be attributed to the extraordinary performance of the company's ESG (Environmental, Social Responsibility and Governance) strategy.
尾声：新冠疫苗上市预计还需18个月时至2020年，当年搏杀世界级疫苗赛场的北京科兴、康希诺两家企业，双双被中国疫苗行业协会宣布为此次新冠疫苗的攻关企业。
Conclusion: It will take another 18 months until 2020 for the new crown vaccine to come on the market. The two companies that beat world-class vaccines in Beijing, Koxing and Consino, were both declared by the China Vaccine Industry Association as key players in the new crown vaccine.
3月2日，中央领导赴军事医学研究院、清华大学医学院考察调研，并在清华医学院主持座谈会，科兴控股董事长尹卫东应邀参加了座谈会。
On March 2, the central government led a study tour to the Academy of Military Medicine and the Faculty of Medicine of Tsinghua University.
3月4日，康希诺在港交所公告称，公司正在研发新冠病毒疫苗，并通过承担“新冠病毒感染应急防治科技重大专项”而获得天津市科技局的支持。
On March 4, Consino announced on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange that it was developing a vaccine for the new crown virus and was receiving support from the Tianjin Municipal Bureau of Science and Technology by taking on a "major project in emergency prevention and treatment of new crown virus infections."
截至公告时，候选疫苗“仍处于临床前研究阶段”，“无法保证我们将能最终成功开发或销售新冠病毒候选疫苗”。
At the time of the announcement, the candidate vaccine was "still in the pre-clinical research stage" and "there is no guarantee that we will eventually be able to successfully develop or market the new crown virus candidate vaccine."
2020年二、三月份以来，关于“中国队”在新冠疫苗研发中取得进展的报道层出不穷，但北京科兴、康希诺两家的表现相当低调，均未对外公布其疫苗的具体进展。
Since February and March 2020, there have been reports of progress made by the Chinese team in the development of a new crown vaccine, but Beijing's Koshing and Consino companies have done so in a low-key manner, failing to disclose details of their vaccine progress.
这种低调，或许与其作为“过来人”的经历有关。
This low profile may have something to do with his experience as a "passer-by."
参与此次全球新冠疫苗竞赛的近百家机构、企业与学术团体，采取的疫苗技术路线相当多样：既包括传统的灭活减毒疫苗技术，也有基因重组工程、病毒载体两类较新的灭活减毒疫苗技术，更有最“时髦”的m-RNA核酸疫苗技术。
Nearly 100 organizations, companies, and academic groups participating in the global new vaccine race have adopted a variety of vaccine technologies: both traditional inactivated vaccines, genetically modified vaccines, virus vectors with newer inactivated attenuated vaccines, and the most "fashionable" m-RNA nucleic acid vaccine technologies.
跑在最前面的选手，除了“中国队”，公认的一家国际选手是美国Moderna，其采取的疫苗技术即为m-RNA。
The front runner, with the exception of "China," is recognized as an international player in the United States, Model, which uses the vaccine technology known as m-RNA.
如同17年前“非典”期间的北京科兴，6年前埃博拉疫情期间的天津康希诺，Moderna同样是一家年资短浅、迄今无任何在售产品、一直亏损的疫苗企业。
Like Beijing's Koxing during SARS 17 years ago, Tianjin Consino, Moderna, during the Ebola outbreak six years ago, was also a junior, hitherto unprofitable, vaccine company.
据报道，Moderna此番参与新冠疫苗研发，受到世界流行病防范创新联盟（CEPI）的及时资助，并获得美国国家卫生院（NIH）的临床试验支持，否则无力单独展开疫苗研发。
According to reports, Moderna's participation in the development of the new crown vaccine, funded by the World Alliance for Innovation in Epidemiology (CEPI) and supported by clinical trials at the US National Institutes of Health (NIH), could not carry out vaccine development alone.
相比初生牛犊不怕虎的Moderna，“曾经沧海”的国际疫苗巨头的响应，看似并不突出。
Compared with the newborn calf Moderna, the response of the international vaccine giant "Zeng Jinghai" does not seem to stand out.
虽有报道称强生、赛诺菲均已投入新冠疫苗研发，但其进展外界难窥其详。
Although there are reports that Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi have been put into the development of the new crown vaccine, but its progress is hard to see.
葛兰素史克仅宣布将免费提供一项“佐剂”技术，该技术添加到疫苗中，可引发更强烈的免疫反应，从而有助于极大地扩大疫苗产能。
GlaxoSmithKline announced only a free "adjuvant" technology that, added to the vaccine, could trigger a stronger immune response, helping to dramatically expand vaccine production.
尽管中外多个研发团队宣布，最快将于今年4月开启临床试验，但从新冠疫苗临床试验到最终投产上市，据WHO总干事谭德塞预估需要18个时间。
Although several research and development teams at home and abroad have announced that clinical trials will begin as early as April this year, WHO Director-General Lindsay estimates it will take 18 years from clinical trials to the final launch of the vaccine.
CEPI首席执行官Richard Hatchett估计，“要足够快地开发出新冠肺炎疫苗，需要在未来12到18个月内花费20亿美元”。
Richard Hatchett, CEPI's chief executive, estimates that "developing a new CWP vaccine fast enough will cost $2 billion over the next 12 to 18 months."
接受八点健闻访谈的多位科研机构、企业与学术团体的人士一致表示，18个月已经是最为乐观的估计。
The 18-month period is already the most optimistic estimate, according to a group of researchers, companies and academics interviewed by the eight-point report.
这是一场资金、实力与时间的竞赛，可能也同时是一场关于运气的赌博。
It is a race of money, power and time, and perhaps also a gamble of luck.
“我认为，成功遏制疫情、彻底消灭该疾病的可能性已经不大了。
"I don't think it's likely that we will succeed in containing the epidemic and completely eliminating it.
”CEPI首席执行官Richard Hatchett表示，“从商业角度有理由认为，这些疫苗将拥有长期商机。
Richard Hatchett, chief executive of CEPI, said: "There is good business sense that these vaccines will have long-term business opportunities.
”此时此刻，过来人与新来者，感觉可能各有不同。
At this point in time, passing people and newcomers may feel differently.
吴晔婷|撰稿微信号：wytlucky19季敏华|撰稿微信号：janejiminhua莫杨|撰稿微信号：kanyun001王吉陆|责编微信号：wangjilu006致读者：“八点健闻”公众号将于4月11日恢复更新。
Wyndlucky & amp; # 124; Writing microsignals: janejiminhua Mo & # 124; Writing microsignals: Kanyun001 Wang Gilu & # 124; Adapted microsignals: wangjilu006 to readers: "Eight Jianmin" will resume on April 11.
在此之前，我们在“八点健闻Plus”发表报道。
Before that, we published a report at Eight Point Health Plus.
敬请关注。
Attention, please.
我们尊重原创版权，未经授权请勿转载。
We respect original copyright and do not reproduce without permission.
郑琪|授权转载微信号：1281949389商务合作上海：leslee 13916263824北京：Jessie 13911125922线索爆料、意见反馈，加入核心读者社群请扫码联系健闻君让朋友们看到你也在看↓↓↓。
CHENG Chi-chi & # 124; Authorize the Reproduction of Microsignals: 1281949389 Commercial Cooperation Shanghai: Leslee 13916263824 Beijing: Jessie 13911125922 Tracing tips, feedback, joining the core reader community, please sweep code to let friends see you, too.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫苗往事：一场技术、金钱与运气组队的竞赛。
Vaccine Past: A Match of Technology, Money and Luck.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "八点健闻Plus";。
Var nickname = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫苗往事：一场技术、金钱与运气组队的竞赛";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "未来12到18个月内预计花费20亿美元";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; expects to spend $2 billion or $2 billion in the next 12 to 18 months;;
var title ="八点健闻Plus";。
var title = & quot; eight health plus & quot;;
