武汉人在琼粤两地的“特殊待遇”。
Wuhan and Guangdong in the two places "special treatment."
林春挺 李溯婉。
Lin Chunting Li Zhuan.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
27.01.2020本文字数：2907，阅读时长大约5分钟导读：此次肺炎病毒毒性没有非典强但是传播力特别强，所以要想尽早恢复平安就要听从政府安排。
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10: 10 The pneumonia virus is not as toxic as SARS but is highly contagious, so early restoration of peace will depend on government arrangements.
作者 | 第一财经林春挺 李溯婉每年春节前后，有许多外省车主自驾从广东湛江徐闻，再坐轮船过海上海南岛，但这一切因为武汉爆发的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情而发生变化。
Every year around the Spring Festival, many provincial drivers drive from Zhanjiang, Guangdong, to Hainan Island by boat. But all this has changed with the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan.
有传言称，近日有上万从武汉及湖北地区来的车主，因被海南拒绝上岛而滞留在广东湛江。
Rumor has it that tens of thousands of drivers from Wuhan and Hubei regions have been stranded in the Zhanjiang River in Guangdong province after Hainan refused to go to the island.
第一财经记者无法从官方求证到真实的数量，不过从多方面求证到，无论是海南还是广东湛江，都加强了防控。
First financial reporters from the official can not verify the true number, but from many aspects, whether Hainan or Guangdong Zhanjiang, have strengthened the prevention and control.
几天前，在海南工作的陈月明打算乘飞机回武汉老家过年，但上了飞机之后，他就被请了下来。
A few days ago, Chen Yueming, who works in Hainan, planned to fly back to his hometown of Wuhan for the Spring Festival.
经过一系列的检查，折腾了一天之后，陈月明终于顺利回到了武汉。
After a series of inspections, after a day of toil, Chen finally succeeded in returning to Wuhan.
”他对第一财经记者说，“这也是非常时期的非常做法，是正确的做法。
'This is an unusual practice in these extraordinary times, and it's the right thing to do, 'he told First Financial Correspondent.
”自武汉发生肺炎疫情以来，截至1月26日7:00，海南省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例22例，其中重症病例1例，无死亡病例和出院病例。
Since the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, as of 0700 hours January 26, a total of 22 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection have been reported in Hainan Province.
与海南只隔一湾浅浅海峡的广东，截至1月25日24时，广东省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例98例，其中湛江4例，在重症病例中，湛江有1例。
As of 2400 hours on January 25, 98 confirmed cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection had been reported in Guangdong Province, including four cases of Zhanjiang and one case of Zhanjiang.
根据海南官方此前公布，海南首例患者来自武汉。
The first case in Hainan comes from Wuhan, officials said earlier.
同样，广东首例确诊患者此前曾去过武汉。
Similarly, Guangdong's first confirmed patient had previously been to Wuhan.
为打好这场疫情防控战役，几天前，海南开始把关口前移，严把机场、车站特别是轮渡码头的入岛关口，与湛江海安等地加强联系协作，加强入岛人员体征监测。
A few days ago, Hainan began to move its checkpoints forward to better control the disease. It tightened access to airports, stations, especially ferry piers, and Zhanjiang Haian to strengthen surveillance of inbound signs.
“非常时期不能只想着自己”和陈月明不同，和往年一样，来自武汉的李佳霖一家8口（他们一家四口加上父母、公婆）今年都在海南过年。
Unlike Chen Yueming, the eight-member Li Jialin family from Wuhan, whose family of four plus parents and parents-in-law, have celebrated the Spring Festival in Hainan this year.
几年前，他们在海南买了房子，所以这几年每年在海南过年。
They bought a house in Hainan a few years ago, so they celebrate the New Year every year in Hainan.
对于李佳霖全家人来说，这一年过得非同寻常。
It has been an extraordinary year for the Li family.
“我们8口人除了3岁小儿子没有电话以外，所有人都接到了来自各个渠道包括社区卫生防疫站、小区物业等的问询和关心，记录我们到达海口的时间，今天早上还有四位卫生防疫人员到家里给我们测量体温等，都是正常的。
"All of us, except our 3-year-old son, have received inquiries and concerns from various sources, including community health and epidemic prevention stations, residential properties, and recorded the time we arrived at Haikou.
”1月26日，李佳霖在接受第一财经记者采访时说。
"On January 26, Li Jialin told the first financial reporter.
1月25日，海南省新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作指挥部发表的《致有武汉旅居史的来琼人员的一封公开信》提出倡议，有武汉旅居史的来琼人员及时到所居住生活的政府部门（街道、乡镇）报备相关信息。
On January 25, an initiative was taken by an "Open Letter to the Personnel of Wuhan who live in Wuhan" issued by the Command of Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Hainan Province.
根据公开信，自今年1月10日以来，有武汉旅居史的来琼人员，要填报来琼的时间、车次（车牌、航班号）、车厢及座位号和手机号码，近期（抵琼后14日内）大致活动范围和接触人员范围。
According to the open letter, since January 10 this year, Wuhan residents of Qiong staff, to report on the time, number (license plate, flight number), carriage and seat number and mobile phone number, recent (14 days after arrival) general scope of activities and the range of contacts.
同时，要及时帮助随行的老人、未成年人、障碍人士提供上述信息，并及时通知同行人员。
At the same time, we should promptly help the elderly, minors and disabled people to provide the above-mentioned information, and timely notify their counterparts.
同在1月25日，海南省疾控中心向海南全省人民及所有在琼旅客发布公开信，主题为防控新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，提醒武汉来琼及有相关接触史的人员及时联系所在街道（乡镇）社区（村委会）、单位或入住的酒店等，主动登记联系方式。
Also on January 25, the CDC in Hainan Province issued an open letter to the people of Hainan Province and all passengers in June on the topic of prevention and control of pneumonia of the new coronavirus infection.
同一天，海口市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室发布公告称，自2020年1月25日12时起，对来自湖北尤其是武汉的过海登岛旅客进行集中医学观察14天，集中医学观察地点为海口市海秀西路46号海南兵工大酒店，集中医学观察期间旅客只能在酒店范围内活动，严禁离开酒店。
On the same day, the Office of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Haikou City issued a notice saying that from 12: 00 a.m. on January 25, 2020, intensive medical observation will be conducted at Hainan Military Engineering Hotel, 46 Hainan Road, Haikou City.
”“大过年的他们也都在岗位上没办法跟家人团聚真的很辛苦。
"" All of them are in their posts too, and it's really hard to get together with their families.
所以我们都很配合工作。
So we all work together.
”对于海南的做法，李佳霖表示理解和支持，“海南的做法非常妥当，我有许多医生朋友，每天看到他们发布的科学的疫情信息，非常清楚这个疫情要想从人间消失只能靠严格的隔离，切断一切传播途径。
"The Hainan practice is very appropriate," Li said. "I have many doctors and friends who read the scientific information they publish every day, and know very well that the only way to get rid of this epidemic is through strict quarantine and cutting off all transmission routes.
”李佳霖通过自己的医生朋友了解到，此次肺炎病毒毒性没有非典强但是传播力特别强，所以要想尽早恢复平安就要听从政府安排，为了自己的生命和更多人的生命，什么困难都可以克服。
"Li learned from his doctors and friends that the virus is not as deadly as SARS but is particularly contagious, so any difficulty in restoring peace as soon as possible will have to be arranged by the government, and any difficulties can be overcome for the sake of his own life and that of many more.
和李佳霖一样，刘小姐是土生土长的武汉人，1月21日去新加坡旅游，现在回国，由于武汉进不去，不得不改飞广州，打算在广州自我隔离一段时间。
Like Li Jialin, Miss Liu, a native of Wuhan, went on a trip to Singapore on January 21 and is now returning home. As Wuhan cannot get in, she has to fly to Guangzhou, intending to isolate herself for a period of time.
她们在网上定民宿，本来都谈好了。
They booked lodgings on the Internet, and they were all settled.
但到了广州，对方听说她的户口是武汉的就拒绝了。
But to Guangzhou, the other side heard that her hukou registration is Wuhan on the refusal.
谈及武汉人在外地的情况时，李佳霖说：“我自己是站在医疗的角度看待这些问题所以完全没有感受到歧视，这个不存在歧视，可能仅仅是外地人对武汉病毒源的恐慌，非常可以理解。
"I see these problems from a medical point of view so I don't feel discrimination at all," Li said, referring to the situation of Wuhan people in other places.
我的家人有点感觉‘特殊’会说‘我们现在被监控了’这样的话，这时候，我都有跟家人说不要这样理解，非常时期不能只想着自己。
My family felt a bit special and said, 'We're being monitored now.' At this point, I told my family not to understand it that way.
”“非常时期不能只想着自己”的还有海南本地人。
"You can't think only about yourself in an emergency.
第一财经记者在海南采访时发现，1月26日，正是大年初二，但在海南不少地方，人们纷纷主动取消了走亲访友的活动。
The first financial reporter in Hainan found that January 26, is the second day of the New Year, but in many parts of Hainan, people have voluntarily cancelled the activities of visiting relatives and friends.
“现在是非常时刻，我们来年再聚。
"This is a very special moment. We can get together again next year.
”海南一位本地人说，“今年我们选择宅在家里。
"We chose to stay at home this year," said a native of Hainan Province.
”武汉人员滞留湛江，本地人取消“回外家”住在广东湛江金沙湾小区60多岁的郭老太太，早已准备好满满一冰箱的海鲜，等待女儿及女婿今天“回外家”。
Wuhan personnel stay in Zhanjiang, local people canceled "home" living in Guangdong Zhanjiang Jinsha Bay District in her sixties, old lady Guo has prepared a refrigerator full of seafood, waiting for her daughter and son-in-law to "return home" today.
“回外家”是湛江地区的一个风俗，嫁出去的女儿一般都会在初二这天带姑爷回娘家。
"Back home" is a Zhanjiang area of a custom, usually married daughters in the second day of junior high school to take her aunt home.
不过，今年情况比较特殊，郭老太太的女儿、女婿临时取消“回外家”。
However, this year's special situation, old lady Guo's daughter, son-in-law temporary cancellation of "home."
不只是郭老太太这一家出现这种情况。
This is not just the case with Mrs. Guo's family.
湛江地区众多市民都纷纷取消走亲访友的活动，呆在家里进行自我隔离。
Many citizens in Zhanjiang have cancelled visits to friends and relatives and stayed at home to insulate themselves.
大年初一的一大早，湛江市委书记、市防控工作领导小组第一组长郑人豪到市疾控中心、市卫健局看望慰问疫情防控一线工作人员，深入了解新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作。
In the early morning of the Lunar New Year, Zhanjiang Municipal Party Secretary and the first group leader of the Municipal Prevention and Control Working Group, Zheng Renhao visited the city CDC and the Municipal Health Bureau to express condolences to the frontline staff to understand the new coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and control work.
不过，令湛江市民更担心的是，大量从武汉来的“不速之客”汇聚于此。
However, Zhanjiang citizens are more worried about the large number of "uninvited visitors" from Wuhan gathered here.
在湛江工作的黄先生今日接受第一财经记者采访时谈到，身边的亲朋好友初二“回外家”的活动全部取消了，街道非常冷清，多家酒楼茶楼跟停业差不多。
Mr. Huang, who works in Zhanjiang, told the first financial reporter today that the activities of relatives and friends around him have all been canceled.
据湛江官方发布的消息，截至1月24日18时， 湛江市报告确诊2例（其中1例病毒核酸检测转阴)，疑似5例。
As of 1800 hours on January 24, Zhanjiang City had reported two confirmed cases (one of which tested negative for viral nucleic acid) and five suspected cases, according to Zhanjiang officials.
7名患者均是武汉返湛人员，其中4名男性分别为79岁、26岁、25岁、24岁，3名女性分别为77岁、67岁、25岁。
The seven patients, all of whom were Wuhan returning to Cham, were 79, 26, 25 and 24 years old for four men and 77, 67 and 25 years for three women.
目前，3名收治在广东医科大学附属医院、2名收治在湛江中心人民医院、2名收治在廉江市人民医院。
At present, three people are admitted to the Guangdong Medical University Hospital, two to the Zhanjiang Central People's Hospital and two to the Lianjiang People's Hospital.
湛江下属雷州市防控中心呼吁市民，如果市民在雷州城区、镇区或农村发现湖北武汉（鄂A）的车辆，请记下车牌号并立即拨打雷州市新型肺炎防控指挥中心的电话，以便该防控中心及时派员跟进。
Mr. Zhanjiang's City Prevention and Control Center calls on residents who find vehicles in Wuhan, Hubei Province (Hubei A) in urban areas, townships or rural areas to write down the license plate number and immediately dial the telephone number of the New Pneumonia Command Center in Leizhou for timely follow-up.
第一财经记者按告示上电话拨打，接电话的工作人员称，这几天确实有不少鄂A的车辆经过雷州境内，已陆续接到一些市民的举报电话。
The first financial reporter called according to the notice on the phone, the staff answered the phone, indeed a lot of E-E A vehicles passing through the territory of Lei Zhou, has received a number of reports from the public.
和海南海口一样，湛江市徐闻县新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组办公室也在1月25日发布告示称，自1月26日12时起，对来自湖北尤其是武汉的从海南过海途经徐闻的旅客进行集中医学健康观察14天，地点在徐闻徐海大道华通酒店，集中医学健康观察期间，旅客只能在酒店范围内活动，严禁离开酒店。
As with Haikou Hainan, the office of the Leading Group for Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Xuwen County of Zhanjiang City will conduct intensive medical health observation for 14 days from 12: 00 a.m. on January 26.
不过，该告示上的咨询电话以及华通酒店的电话一直处于占线状态，第一财经记者截至发稿时无法打通。
However, the advisory call and Huatong hotel phone line has been in a busy state, the first financial reporter as of the time of writing could not be opened.
此外，有朋友圈在转发的消息称，对停留在徐闻急需入住的武汉朋友，请大家指引他们至海安镇海楼（海关培训基地）和华通酒店免费入住，并请相关部门及时发布湛江各县市定点住宿单位。
In addition, a group of friends in forwarding the message that the urgent need to stay in Wuhan friends, please guide them to Hainan Township (customs training base) and Huatong Hotel free of charge, and request the relevant departments to issue timely Zhanjiang county-specific accommodation units.
“降温了，外面下着雨呢，让武汉同胞在异乡先解决温饱，才能战瘟疫。
"Cooling down, it is raining outside, let Wuhan compatriots in a foreign country to solve the first food and clothing, can fight the plague.
”广东粤东一乡镇干部告诉第一财经记者，从除夕开始，他们所在的地区开始排查从武汉来的人员，包括在武汉就读的学生，并为这些人准备了安置点，配备了医护人员监测身体状况。
A township official from Guangdong Province told the first financial reporter that, starting on New Year's Eve, their area had started to screen people from Wuhan, including students studying in Wuhan, and had prepared resettlement places for them, staffed with medical staff to monitor their health.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉人在琼粤两地的“特殊待遇”。
Wuhan and Guangdong in the two places "special treatment."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉人在琼粤两地的“特殊待遇”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "此次肺炎病毒毒性没有非典强但是传播力特别强，所以要想尽早恢复平安就要听从政府安排。
var msg _ desc = & quot; The pneumonia virus isn't as toxic as SARS but highly contagious, so an early return to safety is at the mercy of the government.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
