无症状感染者才是隐患所在，《自然》杂志称可能导致新冠疫情二次暴发。
Symptomatic infections are the culprit, and Nature says it could lead to a new outbreak.
孙滔。
Sun Tao.
DeepTech深科技                      。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech深科技。
Deep Technology DeepTech.
DeepTech是一家关注新兴科技产业化的全链条内容、服务、数据和投融资平台，致力于构建一个全球科技创新合作网络。
DeepTech is a whole chain of content, services, data, and investment and financing platforms that focus on the industrialization of emerging technologies, and is committed to building a global science, technology, and innovation collaborative network.
。
.
无症状感染者正再次成为焦点，这些感染者让新冠疫情的遏止变得更加艰难。
The asymptomatic infected are once again the focus of attention, and these infections make the containment of the new crown more difficult.
3 月 20 日，《自然》杂志报道称，60% 的新冠感染者可能属于无症状或者症状轻微，而这些感染者可能会导致疫情二次暴发。
On March 20, Nature reported that 60 percent of new infections may be asymptomatic or mild, and that those infected could lead to a second outbreak.
无独有偶，3 月 16 日的《科学》杂志发表来自来自中国、英国、美国的研究人员联合完成的研究称，在 1 月 23 日武汉封城之前，中国所有实际上的感染者中，未记录的新冠病毒感染者比例高达 86%。
Similarly, a study published in the March 16 issue of the journal Science by researchers from China, the United Kingdom and the United States said that by the time Wuhan closed on January 23, as many as 86 per cent of all new infections in China had not been recorded.
研究称，这些未记录的感染者因其症状轻微或未表现，是造成疫情迅速蔓延的主要原因，也是疫情初期难以防控的核心。
These unrecorded infections, with mild or no symptoms, are the main cause of the epidemic's rapid spread and are at the heart of what is difficult to control early in the epidemic, the study said.
无症状感染者会导致新冠疫情再次暴发吗？这个问号已经变得越来越大，答案也越来越变得急迫。
Will asymptomatic infections cause a new outbreak of the crown? The question mark is getting bigger, and the answer is becoming increasingly urgent.
（来源：哥伦比亚大学）无症状感染者的比例成谜无症状感染者具有传播病毒的能力吗？多方答案是肯定的。
Does an asymptomatic person have the ability to transmit the virus? The answer is yes.
中华预防医学会新型冠状病毒肺炎防控专家组在《中华流行病学杂志》发表文章称，目前传染源主要是新型冠状病毒感染的患者，隐性感染者（即无症状感染者）也可能成为传染源，主要经呼吸道飞沫传播和接触传播，人群普遍易感。
The new coronavirus pneumonia prevention and control team of the Chinese Society of Preventive Medicine reported in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology that the current source of infection is mainly new coronavirus infection, while the hidden infection (i.e. asymptomatic infection) may also be a source of infection, mainly through respiratory droplets and contact transmission.
文章称，由于存在一定比例的隐性感染者，并且这部分人群同样具有传染性，仅根据有无症状来筛查密切接触者无法满足隔离传染源的目的，建议对密切接触者在发现时即进行采样检测，以尽早发现可能存在的传染性，并在医学观察解除时开展病原筛查，以防范隐性感染者处于排毒期。
The article said that due to the presence of a certain proportion of hidden infections, and that this population is also infectious, screening close contacts for symptoms alone does not meet the purpose of isolating the source of infection, it is recommended that close contacts be sampled at the time of discovery to detect possible infectivity at an early stage, and that pathogen screening be carried out at the time medical observation is lifted to prevent recessive infections from occurring.
据纽约时报报道，美国国家过敏和传染病研究所所长安东尼 · 福奇 (Anthony Fauci) 博士说，“我认为，毫无疑问，无症状病毒携带者会把病毒传染给其他人。
'I think there's no doubt that asymptomatic carriers of the virus infect other people, 'says Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, according to The New York Times.
”一篇发表在《新英格兰医学杂志》的研究称，无症状感染者亦有传播能力。
According to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, asymptomatic infections can also spread.
研究发现从无症状患者的样本中检测到的病毒载量与有症状感染者很接近，这表明了无症状或轻度症状患者都具有传播潜力，并且在感染早期就可能拥有较强的传染性。
The study found that viral load detected in asymptomatic patients was close to that of symptomatic patients, suggesting that asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients have transmission potential and may be highly infectious early in the infection.
无症状感染者到底有多少呢？中华预防医学会新型冠状病毒肺炎防控专家组在同期《中华流行病学杂志》另一篇文章中指出，截至 2020 年 2 月 11 日，中国内地共报告 72314 例病例，其中无症状感染者 889 例（1.2%）。
As of February 11, 2020, there were 72,314 cases reported in the Mainland of China, of which 889 (1.2%) were asymptomatic, according to a separate article in the Chinese Journal of Epidemiology during the same period.
这个数据可能被大大低估了。
This figure may be greatly underestimated.
据《自然》杂志报道，3 月 6 日发布在医学预印本 medRxiv 的一项研究指出，截至 2 月 18 日，武汉有 3.74 万人感染了新冠病毒，其中大部分属于症状轻微或没有症状但仍具有传染性的感染者。
As of February 18, 37,400 people in Wuhan had been infected with the new crown virus, most of them people with mild or no symptoms but still infectious, according to a study published March 6 in the pre-printed medRxiv medical journal.
该研究的领衔者、华中科技大学公共卫生学院院长邬堂春教授称：最保守的估计，至少 59% 的感染者没有经过检测，并可能感染他人。
The most conservative estimate is that at least 59 percent of those infected have not been tested and could infect others, said Wu Tong Chun, professor of public health at Huazhong University of Science and Technology, who led the study.
这或许可以解释为什么病毒传播得如此之快。
This may explain why the virus spreads so quickly.
不过，《自然》杂志引述佐治亚州立大学的流行病学家杰拉多 · 乔威尔（Gerardo Chowell）的看法称，邬堂春教授的研究结论可能高估了无症状感染者的比例。
However, the journal Nature quotes Gerardo Chowell, an epidemiologist at Georgia State University, as saying that Prof Wu's findings may overestimate the proportion of asymptomatic infections.
日本 “钻石公主” 号邮轮在不少科学家看来是一个更加典型的研究样本。
Japan's Princess Diamond is seen by many scientists as a more typical example of research.
杰拉多 · 乔威尔参与的一项研究发现，“钻石公主”号邮轮的新冠感染中无症状者比例是 17.9%。
A study by Gerardo Jowell found that the proportion of asymptomatic new crown infections on board the MV Princess Diamond was 17.9 percent.
需要指出的是，“钻石公主”号的大多数确诊乘客是 60 岁以上的老年人，而老年人在新冠疫情中容易表现出症状，从而降低无症状感染者的比例。
It should be noted that the majority of the passengers identified by the Princess Diamond are over 60 years of age, while older persons are more likely to show symptoms during the new crown, thus reducing the proportion of asymptomatic infections.
上海儿童医学中心的一项针对全国 731 名名受感染儿童的研究发现，55.3% 的儿童为轻微或无症状。
A study of 731 infected children nationwide by the Shanghai Children's Medical Center found that 55.3 per cent of children were mild or asymptomatic.
无症状感染者未纳入确诊无症状感染者具有传播能力，而其比例又不确定。
Symptomatic infected people are not included in the diagnosis of asymptomatic infection has the ability to spread, and its proportion is uncertain.
这让日前武汉市的一则 “公示” 更加值得关注。
This makes the Wuhan city of a "publicity" more worthy of attention.
3 月 20 日，网上流传的一份 “公示” 显示，19 日硚口区一小区有一新增确诊病例。
March 20, the spread of a "public notice" online, 19 Zedou District a small district of a new confirmed case.
随后硚口区防控指挥部回应称，网传患者系无症状感染者，并非确诊病例。
Subsequently, Zhoukou District Command responded that the network of patients is asymptomatic infected, not confirmed cases.
据新华社报道，武汉市韩家墩街综合社区丽水康城小区居民张某某，因淋巴结肿块 (大脖子病) 去医院就诊，体温正常，无发热咳嗽等症状。
Zhang Mou, a resident of Yishui Kangcheng District, a comprehensive community of Han Jia Tun Street in Wuhan, went to the hospital for treatment for a lymph node mass (neck disease) with normal body temperature and no fever and cough, Xinhua reported.
其新冠筛查第一次核酸结果为阴性。
Its first Nucleic Acid Screening results were negative.
3 月 19 日第二次核酸检测结果为阳性，并收治入院。
On 19 March, the second nucleic acid test was positive and admitted to hospital.
根据《国家卫健委办公厅关于印发新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案 (第六版) 的通知》，张某某系无症状感染者，不是确诊病例。
Zhang is asymptomatic and is not a confirmed case, according to the Notice of the National Health Commission on the Issuance of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Prevention and Control Programme (6th Edition).
3 月 20 日再次采集患者痰拭子、咽拭子，核酸检测均为阴性。
On 20 March, sputum swab and pharyngeal swab were collected again and the nucleic acid tests were negative.
根据《新型冠状病毒肺炎防控方案（第六版）》，无症状感染者的定义为：无临床症状，呼吸道等标本新型冠状病毒病原学或血清特异性 IgM 抗体检测阳性者。
According to the New Coronavirus Pneumonia Program (6th edition), asymptomatic infection is defined as: no clinical symptoms, respiratory specimens and other new coronavirus etiology or serum-specific IgM antibody positive.
2 月 14 日的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，国家卫生健康委副主任曾益新介绍，关于新型冠状病毒无症状感染者一般指没有发烧、咳嗽等临床症状，但是标本检测又呈阳性。
The new coronavirus asymptomatic infection generally refers to the absence of clinical symptoms such as fever and cough, but the specimen tested positive, Zeng Yixin, deputy director of the National Health Council, told a press conference on February 14.
曾益新称，无症状感染者主要发现来源有四个：第一，新冠肺炎病例的密切接触者，在医学观察期发现了一些这样的人；第二，在聚集性疫情的调查中，在开展一些主动检测的过程中，我们可能发现无症状感染者；第三，在新冠肺炎病例的传染源追踪过程中，对暴露人群进行主动检测时可能发现无症状感染者；第四，在对有新冠肺炎病例、持续传播地区的旅行史和居住史的人员主动检测时，可能会发现无症状感染者。
There are four main sources of asymptomatic infections, Zeng said. First, close contacts in cases of Newcrown Pneumonia, some of whom were found during medical observation; second, asymptomatic infections may be detected during active testing of exposed populations during asymptomatic surveillance of nocturnal pneumonia; and fourthly, asymptomatic infections may be detected in active surveillance of exposed populations during asymptomatic surveillance of nocturnal pneumonia.
目前中国对于无症状感染者的管理措施是，集中隔离 14 天，原则上两次连续标本核酸检测阴性者（采样时间至少间隔 24 小时）可解除隔离。
At present, China's control measures for asymptomatic infections are to concentrate for 14 days, in principle two consecutive samples of negative nucleic acid testing negative (sampling intervals of at least 24 hours) can be removed from isolation.
如果无症状感染者在集中隔离期间出现症状，则将其归为确诊病例，予以报告。
If an asymptomatic person presents symptoms during intensive isolation, it is classified as a confirmed case and reported.
不过，有学者对无症状感染者不纳入确诊病例持有异议。
However, some scholars disagree that asymptomatic infected people are not included in the confirmed cases.
《自然》杂志引述哈佛大学公共卫生学院传染病免疫学家和流行病学家迈克尔 · 米娜（Michael Mina）的看法称，无症状感染者不计入确诊病例，会不利于建立病毒模型并了解其传播范围。
The journal Nature quotes Michael Mina, an infectious-diseases immunologist and epidemiologist at the Harvard School of Public Health, as saying that the fact that asymptomatic infections are not counted among confirmed cases undermines the creation of viral models and understanding their spread.
如果忽略无症状感染者，新冠病毒的病死率就会被高估，同时传播力会被低估，这可能会让人们错误评估病毒潜在的影响。
Neglecting asymptomatic infections can lead to an overestimation of mortality and an underestimation of transmission, which can lead to a misassessment of the potential impact of the virus.
据财新网报道，有专家称，国家卫健委新冠肺炎诊疗方案修订过程中曾对无症状感染者能不能诊断为确诊病例有过讨论，但最后遭到否决。
According to Caixin reported, some experts said that the revision process of the new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment program for asymptomatic infected patients can be diagnosed as a confirmed case, but was ultimately rejected.
争议的焦点在于，如果无症状感染者不算新冠患者，那么核酸阳性还能不能作为诊断的金指标？并且，既然无症状感染者携带了新冠病毒，这部分人就有可能转化为病人。
The point of contention is whether an asymptomatic infection is not considered a new crown sufferer, can nucleic acid-positive people be used as a gold indicator of diagnosis, and since asymptomatic infected people carry the new crown virus, they are likely to be transformed into patients.
在《自然》杂志的报道中，中国疾控中心流行病学首席专家、研究员吴尊友认可将无症状感染者不计入确诊病例的做法。
Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist and researcher at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, endorsed the practice of not counting asymptomatic infections in confirmed cases in the journal Nature.
他认为，核酸检测阳性并不一定意味着感染了病毒，实验室检测通常会通过咽拭子或鼻拭子检测到病毒的遗传物质，但在一些人身上，病毒可能尚未进入细胞并开始复制。
In his view, a positive nucleic acid test does not necessarily mean that the virus has been infected. Laboratory tests usually detect genetic material from the virus by swabbing the pharynx or nose swab, but in some people the virus may not have entered the cell and started copying.
纽约哥伦比亚大学病毒学者安吉拉 · 拉斯穆森（Angela Rasmussen）则认为，病毒通常在宿主内部复制才能达到可检测的水平。
Angela Rasmussen, a viral scholar at Columbia University in New York, argues that viruses often replicate within the host to reach detectable levels.
穷尽检测是不可能的无症状感染者表现得与常人无异，他们的生活和工作照旧，与人的接触也没有警觉，那么可以有效地传播疾病。
An asymptomatic infected person, who is unlikely to exhaust detection, behaves like a normal person, lives and works as usual, and is not alert to human contact, can spread disease effectively.
即便体温枪的温度传感器非常精确，也难以发现所有的感染者。
Even if the temperature sensor of the gun is very accurate, it is difficult to find all the infected.
感染者可能需要数天的时间才开始发烧，加上已经发烧的旅行者可能会服用退烧药来抑制症状，这种情况下，仅仅用体温枪来发现感染者可能意味着遗漏新病例。
It can take days for an infected person to develop a fever, and a fever traveler may take antipyretics to suppress symptoms. In such cases, simply using a body temperature gun to detect an infected person may mean missing a new case.
那么，有没有必要穷尽一切追踪和检测手段来发现无症状感染者呢？据路透社 3 月 19 日报道，荷兰开始实施一大型项目，对该国献血样本进行检测，以查找荷兰有多少新冠无症状感染者。
So is it necessary to exhaust all means of tracing and testing to detect asymptomatic infections? The Netherlands has started a large-scale project to test blood donation samples from the country to find out how many people in the Netherlands are asymptomatic.
该项目计划每周对 1 万个献血样本进行检测。
The project plans to test 10,000 blood donation samples a week.
3 月 20 日，纽约时报报道称，哥伦比亚大学研究人员利用纽约时报的数据计算出，即使能把传染率降到一半，美国未来两个月感染人数也将达到 65 万。
Researchers at Columbia University used data from the New York Times to calculate that even if the infection rate could be halved, the number of infections in the United States could reach 650,000 in the next two months, the New York Times reported.
这是因为有很多感染者症状轻微或无症状。
This is because many infected people have mild or no symptoms.
然而美国的核酸检测能力有限，穷尽检测不现实。
However, the United States has limited nucleic acid detection capabilities, exhaustive detection is unrealistic.
最好的解决办法可能是开发保护性疫苗。
The best solution might be to develop a protective vaccine.
如果没有疫苗产生的话，高强度的干预措施也非最佳选项。
High-intensity interventions are not the best option if a vaccine is not available.
严厉干预虽然能迅速减缓病毒传播，但不具有可持续性，一旦放松干预，就会二次暴发。
While severe intervention can slow the spread of the virus quickly, it is not sustainable and, once it is relaxed, it can erupt again.
图 | 一周内有 100 例 ICU 病患时即开启干预措施，一周内有 50 例 ICU 病患时即关闭。
Intervention at the start of a week with 100 ICU patients, and shut down when there are 50 a week.
在这个模型里，若以 R0=2.2 来计算，英国人在未来一年内有三分之二的时间需要生活在开启措施的日子里。
In this model, Britons spend two-thirds of the next year living on the opening day if R0 = 2.2 is used.
每周 ICU 发生率显示为橙色，蓝框为干预的有效时间。
The weekly ICU prevalence rate was orange and the blue box was the effective time for intervention.
（来源：帝国理工学院）英国探索了一个新选项。
(Source: Imperial College of Technology) Britain has explored a new option.
帝国理工学院在一份报告中将英国能够采取的措施都考虑进来，分类再加以各种组合，分别作出预测，最终推算出，在发现病例就隔离的基础上，弹性地让人们保持社交距离（如果有必要再加上关闭学校）是最佳选项。
In a report, Imperial took into account all the measures that the UK could take, grouped them together, projected them separately, and finally calculated that flexibility in keeping people socially distant (and closing schools if necessary) on the basis of case isolation was the best option.
详见 DeepTech 此前报道《伦敦或将封城，但英国仍保留 “群体免疫” 逻辑，以图避免疫情二次暴发》。
DeepTech had previously reported that "London may be closed, but the UK retains the logic of" mass immunization "in an attempt to avoid a second outbreak."
该报告称，这样的选择既能避免发生武汉那样的医疗资源挤兑，也可以避免疫情二次暴发。
Such an option would avoid either a run on medical resources, as in Wuhan, or a second outbreak, the report said.
-End-。
- End-.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无症状感染者才是隐患所在，《自然》杂志称可能导致新冠疫情二次暴发。
Symptomatic infections are the culprit, and Nature says it could lead to a new outbreak.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
查看更多相关内容。
See more for more information.
以上推荐为优质及原创文章。
Above recommendations for quality and original articles.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "DeepTech深科技";。
var nickname = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
var msg_title = "无症状感染者才是隐患所在，《自然》杂志称可能导致新冠疫情二次暴发";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; asymptomatic infection is at risk, and Nature says it may have caused & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "无症状感染者正再次成为焦点，这些感染者让新冠疫情的遏止变得更加艰难。
var msg _ desc = & quot; asymptomatic infections are again at the forefront, making it harder to contain the new crown.
3 月 20 日，《自然》杂志报道称，6";。
AT & quot; 6; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; report in Nature on March 20.
var title ="DeepTech深科技";。
var title = & quot; DeepTech & quot;;
