从“未见明显人传人”到“人传人”，复盘武汉疫情二十天。
From "no obvious person-to-person" to "person-to-person", double disk epidemic situation in Wuhan 20 days.
马晓华。
Ma Xiaohua.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
21.01.2020本文字数：3771，阅读时长大约6.5分钟导读：“武汉肺炎是否人传人”这个问题，一直受外界关注。
Wuhan Pneumonia is a human-to-human disease. Wuhan pneumonia is a human-to-human disease, which has attracted increasing attention from the outside world.
在官方没有明确确认之前，公众的自我防护也由此减弱，直到北京、上海、深圳出现新发病例，公众才开始真正意识到：武汉肺炎原来不简单。
In the absence of official confirmation, public self-protection waned until new cases appeared in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen before the public began to realize that Wuhan pneumonia had never been easy.
作者 | 第一财经马晓华1月20日下午，在针对“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情”有关防控情况记者问答会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山院士证实了武汉肺炎的“人传人”，且有医护感染。
Academician Zhong Nan-shan, chairman of the high-level group of experts at the State Health Council, confirmed the man-to-person transmission of pneumonia in Wuhan on the afternoon of January 20 at a question-and-answer session with reporters on the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection.
“大概在全国四五个省市，然后国外都发现有这个关系，几乎都跟武汉有关系——去过武汉、从武汉来——证实了有人传人的传染。
"About four or five provinces and cities across the country, and then found this relationship abroad, almost all linked to Wuhan - has been to Wuhan, from Wuhan - confirmed human-to-human transmission.
也证实了有医务人员的感染。
Infections by medical personnel were also confirmed.
”钟南山表示。
Mr Zhong said.
“武汉肺炎是否人传人”这个问题，一直受外界关注。
Whether Wuhan Pneumonia is passed from person to person has always attracted the attention of the outside world.
在官方没有明确确认之前，公众的自我防护可能由此减弱，直到北京、上海、深圳出现新发病例，公众才开始真正意识到：武汉肺炎原来不简单。
Without official confirmation, public self-defense may wane, until new cases emerge in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen before the public really realizes that Wuhan pneumonia is not simple.
疫情亦开始扩散。
The epidemic has also begun to spread.
据官方通报，截至1月20日24点，我国境内累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例291例（湖北省270例，北京市5例，广东省14例，上海市2例）；疑似病例54例（湖北省11例，广东省7例，四川省3例，云南省1例，上海市7例，广西壮族自治区1例，山东省1例，吉林省1例，安徽省1例，浙江省16例，江西省2例，海南省1例，贵州省1例，宁夏回族自治区1例）。
As of 2400 on January 20, 291 confirmed cases of pneumonia (270 in Hubei Province, 5 in Beijing, 14 in Guangdong Province and 2 in Shanghai) have been reported in China.
日本通报确诊病例1例，泰国通报确诊病例2例，韩国通报确诊病例1例。
Japan reported 1 confirmed case, Thailand 2 confirmed cases and the Republic of Korea 1 confirmed case.
从发现到扩散，从12月31日到1月21日，武汉肺炎事发20天后，有必要对此次疫情防控的手段和信息发布做一次梳理和复盘。
From discovery to spread, December 31 to January 21, Wuhan Pneumonia 20 days after the incident, it is necessary to the means of prevention and control of the epidemic and the release of information to do a combing and re-disk.
未见“明显人传人”时的松懈2019年12月30日，坊间流出一份据称是武汉市卫健委所发的《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》。
There was no "apparent human-to-human" lax on December 30, 2019, an alleged "Wuhan city health committee issued by the Health Protection Commission of the" emergency notification on the treatment of unknown causes of pneumonia. "
这份通知显示，武汉市部分医疗机构陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人，要求各有关医疗机构做好医疗救治工作。
The notice showed that some medical institutions in Wuhan were suffering from unexplained pneumonia, and requested the relevant medical institutions to do a good job in medical treatment.
这是“武汉肺炎”出现的最早的一个信号。
This is "Wuhan Pneumonia" the earliest emergence of a signal.
12月31日，武汉市卫健委发布了第一则通报：近期部分医疗机构发现接诊的多例肺炎病例与华南海鲜城有关联，已发现27例病例，其中7例病情严重，其余病例病情稳定可控，有2例病情好转，拟于近期出院。
On December 31, Wuhan Health Commission issued the first notice: Recently, some medical institutions found that many cases of pneumonia admitted to hospitals and Huaxian City have been found to be linked to 27 cases, of which 7 cases have been found serious, the remaining cases are under stable control and 2 cases are expected to be discharged in the near future.
在武汉市组织同济医院、省疾控中心、中科院武汉病毒所、武汉市传染病医院及武汉市疾控中心等单位的临床医学、流行病学、病毒学专家进行会诊后，专家从病情、治疗转归、流行病学调查、实验室初步检测等方面情况分析认为，上述病例系病毒性肺炎。
After consultation with specialists in clinical medicine, epidemiology and virology from Tongji Hospital, Provincial CDC, Wuhan Hospital of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan Infectious Diseases Hospital and Wuhan CDC, experts analyzed the condition, treatment outcome, epidemiological investigation and preliminary laboratory test and concluded that the case was viral pneumonia.
这是首次对于“武汉肺炎”的认知——“病毒性肺炎”。
This is the first time to "Wuhan pneumonia" knowledge - "viral pneumonia."
且专家认为，此时病毒未发现明显人传人现象，未发现医务人员感染。
And the expert thinks, at this time virus did not discover apparent person-to-person phenomenon, did not discover medical staff infection.
“没有明显的人传人这个信号很重要，因为目前已知病毒所导致的病毒性肺炎，基本都是人传人的。
"There is no significant human-to-human transmission signal, because viral pneumonia caused by the virus is now known to be largely human-to-human.
也就是说，这将是一个未知的新病毒。
That said, it will be an unknown new virus.
”一位病毒学专家认为。
"said one virologist.
事实上，在这则通报中，武汉市卫健委也排除了已知病毒。
In fact, in this circular, Wuhan City Health Commission also ruled out the known virus.
“到目前为止调查引起病毒性肺炎的病毒以流行性感冒病毒为常见，其他为副流感病毒、巨细胞病毒、腺病毒、鼻病毒、冠状病毒等。
"So far, the virus that causes viral pneumonia is commonly known as influenza virus. Other viruses are paraneovirus, cytomegalovirus, adenovirus, rhinovirus and coronavirus," he said.
”武汉肺炎疫情在“未见明显人传人”的结论下继续持续发展。
The Wuhan pneumonia epidemic continues to develop under the conclusion that "no significant human-to-human transmission" has been observed.
华南海鲜市场一时间也未曾关闭。
South China's seafood market has not been closed for a while.
12月31日13时，第一财经记者来到华南海鲜市场，看到商户均在正常营业，很少有歇店情况，也很少有人戴口罩。
At 1300 hours on December 31, the first financial reporter came to the South China seafood market and saw that the merchants were operating normally.
一位商户告诉第一财经记者，商场会做定期消毒，并不是因为有人得肺炎而专门消毒。
A businessman told the first financial reporter that the mall would disinfect regularly, not because someone had pneumonia.
防控上这种短暂的松懈，与不明原因肺炎患者人数的不断上升，对比起来有点不相适宜。
This brief respite in prevention and control, in contrast to the rising number of patients with unexplained pneumonia, is a bit out of place.
2020年1月3日，武汉市卫健委发出第二则通报：截至1月3日8时，该市共发现符合不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊断患者44例，其中重症11例。
On January 3, 2020, Wuhan Health Commission issued a second notice: As of 0800 hours on January 3, 44 cases of viral pneumonia with unknown causes had been found in the city, 11 of which were severe.
1月5日，武汉市卫健委发出第三则通报：截至1月5日8时，该市共报告符合不明原因的病毒性肺炎诊断患者59例，其中重症患者7例。
On January 5, Wuhan Health Commission issued its third notice: As of 0800 hours on January 5, 59 cases of patients diagnosed with unexplained viral pneumonia had been reported in the city, 7 of them seriously.
患者在增加。
The number of patients is increasing.
通报结论依然为：“初步调查表明，未发现明确的人传人证据，未发现医务人员感染。
The conclusion of the briefing remains as follows: "Preliminary investigations have revealed no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission and no cases of infection by medical personnel.
”关于对病毒本身，通报明确给予了回应：已排除流感、禽流感、腺病毒、传染性非典型肺炎（SARS）和中东呼吸综合征（MERS）等呼吸道病原。
With regard to the virus itself, there was a clear response: respiratory pathogens such as influenza, avian influenza, adenovirus, infectious atypical pneumonia (SARS) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) had been eliminated.
病原鉴定和病因溯源工作仍在进一步进行中。
Pathogen identification and etiology traceability are still under way.
这则通报已经明确，引发武汉肺炎的是将是人类尚未认识的“新发病毒”。
The announcement has made it clear that Wuhan pneumonia will be triggered by a "new virus" not yet known to humanity.
而历史上那些新发病毒如SARS、中东呼吸综合征、艾滋病毒、高致病禽流感等，都是来自于野生动物。
Historically, new viruses, such as SARS, Middle East respiratory syndrome, HIV, highly pathogenic avian influenza, have all come from wild animals.
“野生动物源性病毒的跨种感染”在此时的武汉肺炎病毒追踪中，理论上已经锁定了目标。
"Wild virus cross-species infection" in this time Wuhan pneumonia virus tracking, in theory has locked the target.
“引发武汉肺炎的病毒可能来自野生动物，华南海鲜市场有卖野味的，而且是武汉是候鸟栖息地，病毒在这里的野生动物体内混合，是随时可以发生的。
"The virus that causes Wuhan pneumonia may come from wild animals, there are game sellers in the South China seafood market, and Wuhan is a habitat for migratory birds where viruses are mixed in wild animals and can happen anytime.
”上述病毒学专家表示。
The virologist said.
引发武汉肺炎的病毒可能来自野生动物的这种猜测，在第三道通报中已经得到印证：“对华南海鲜城采取休市措施，并开展环境卫生处置和进一步的卫生学调查。
The speculation that the virus that caused Wuhan pneumonia may have originated in wild animals has been confirmed in the third circular: "The city of Hai Xian in South China was put on hold, and environmental sanitation disposal and further sanitary investigation were carried out.
”猜测终归是猜测，医学毕竟是一门科学，需要的是科学证据。
Speculation is guesswork: medicine is, after all, a science that requires scientific evidence.
1月11日，武汉市卫健委发出第四则通报，以专家解读的形式告知公众：“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”病原体初步判定为新型冠状病毒。
January 11, Wuhan City Health Commission issued the fourth circular, the form of an expert interpretation of the public: "unknown causes of viral pneumonia" pathogen initially judged as a new coronavirus.
病毒找到了，疫情在持续发展，且开始出现死亡病例。
The virus has been found, the epidemic continues to develop, and deaths are beginning to occur.
第四则通报称：截至2020年1月10日24时，武汉初步诊断有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例41例，其中已出院2例、重症7例、死亡1例，其余患者病情稳定。
As of 2400 hours on January 10, 2020, Wuhan had initially diagnosed 41 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection, including 2 cases discharged from the hospital, 7 cases of serious illness and 1 case of death.
所有密切接触者739人，其中医务人员419人，均已接受医学观察，没有发现相关病例。
All 739 persons in close contact, 419 of them medical personnel, have been medically observed and no cases have been found.
“冠状病毒的属性就是传染性，而且新冠状病毒与SARS在基因上有78%同源性，即与SARS是孪生姐妹，其所表现的临床症状为严重急性呼吸窘迫综合征，新冠状病毒也是这个。
"The coronavirus is infectious and the coronavirus is genetically homologous to SARS, i.e. twin with SARS, and its clinical manifestation is severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, as is the case with the new coronavirus.
此时就应该启动类SARS防控了。
It is time to start SARS prevention and control.
”上述病毒专家表示。
The virus experts said.
不过，此时通报的口径依然是：未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
At this point, however, the tone of the notification was still: no infection by medical personnel was detected and no clear human-to-human evidence was found.
通报口径上的变化，一直到1月14日的第七道通报才最终有所体现。
The change in calibre was not finally reflected until the seventh briefing on 14 January.
第七道通报：武汉肺炎走出国门口径变化1月14日，武汉卫健委发出第七则通报：该市无新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例，无治愈出院病例，无新增死亡病例报告，累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例41例，已治愈出院7例，在治重症6例，死亡1例。
Wuhan Health Commission on January 14 issued the seventh notice: the city has no new cases of coronavirus infection pneumonia, no cure for discharge from hospital, no reported new cases of death, 41 reported cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection, 7 cases cured, 6 cases treated for serious diseases and 1 case of death.
另，泰国通报诊断1例来自武汉的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例。
In addition, Thailand notified the diagnosis of a new case of coronavirus infection from Wuhan pneumonia.
不过在这则通报中，武汉肺炎的疫情其实已经开始发生变化：从“未见明显的人传人”到“不排除有限人传人”。
But the Wuhan Pneumonia epidemic has in fact begun to change in this circular: from "no discernible human-to-human transmission" to "limited human-to-human transmission."
该通报中关于“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情知识问答”称：现有的调查结果表明，尚未发现明确的人传人证据，不能排除有限人传人的可能，但持续人传人的风险较低。
The current survey results show that no clear human-to-human evidence has been found and the possibility of a limited human-to-human transmission cannot be ruled out, but the risk of transmission from person to person is low, the briefing said.
且目前确诊的41例病例中，发现一起为家庭聚集性，夫妻两人发病，丈夫先发病，为华南海鲜批发市场从业人员，妻子否认有华南海鲜批发市场暴露史。
Among the 41 cases diagnosed so far, one case was found to be familial aggregation. The husband was the first to suffer from the disease and the wife denied any history of exposure at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
这对“夫妻病例”，第一财经在2019年12月31日已经采访到相关患者：丈夫先患病，妻子后患病。
The "couple's cases" were interviewed by First Finance on December 31, 2019: the husband fell ill first and the wife later became ill.
“这种家庭聚集性病例，已经有了人传人的迹象，且重症病例在20%左右，应该采取烈性传染病应对措施来防控了。
"There are already signs of human-to-human transmission in this type of familial aggregation, with severe cases of around 20 per cent, which should be prevented and controlled by aggressive infectious diseases.
”一位流行病专家表示。
"said one epidemiologist.
然而这时，对于武汉肺炎疫情的防控并没有因为“家庭聚集性”人传人迹象和泰国出现病例而有明显改变。
At this time, however, the prevention and control of pneumonia in Wuhan has not changed significantly due to evidence of "familial aggregation" from person to person and the emergence of cases in Thailand.
唯一改变的是在以后的几道通报中缺少了一段内容：未发现医务人员感染，未发现明确的人传人证据。
The only change was the absence of a paragraph in subsequent circulars: no infection by medical personnel was detected and no clear human-to-human evidence was found.
疫情继续扩散。
The epidemic continues to spread.
1月20日，北京市大兴区卫健委和广东省卫健委分别通报新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎情况。
January 20, the Beijing Daxing District Wei Bodyguard Committee and Guangdong Health Commission respectively reported the new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
其中，北京大兴区确诊2例新型冠状病毒感染肺炎病例；广东深圳确诊1例。
Among them, 2 cases of new coronavirus infection pneumonia were diagnosed in Daxing District, Beijing, and 1 case in Shenzhen, Guangdong Province.
1月20日晚，中共中央总书记、国家主席、中央军委主席习近平对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情作出重要指示：要把人民群众生命安全和身体健康放在第一位，坚决遏制疫情蔓延势头。
On the evening of January 20, the General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Chairman of the Central Military Commission issued important instructions on the pneumonia epidemic caused by the new coronavirus infection.
国务院总理李克强主持召开国务院常务会议，进一步部署新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作，要求有力有效遏制疫情。
Premier Li Keqiang chaired a State Council executive meeting to further deploy the new coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and control work, and called for effective containment of the epidemic.
随后发布的便是国家卫健委高级别专家组专家们接受记者采访的内容，该组组长钟南山院士证实了武汉肺炎的“人传人”，也证实了有医务人员的感染。
This was followed by interviews with high-level experts from the National Fitness and Wellness Commission, who led the group, Professor Zhong Nan-shan, who confirmed the human-to-human transmission of pneumonia in Wuhan and confirmed the presence of infections among medical personnel.
春运已经启动，离开武汉的人早已成倍于平时。
Spring transport has been launched, leaving Wuhan people have already doubled in peacetime.
一位非湖北省的地方疾控人员表示：“目前没有疫苗，第一防线是健康教育，搞好自我防护；然后出现病人到医院就诊，对可疑病例报疾控机构检测，如确诊，一方面由医院隔离治疗，另一方面由疾控机构对密切接触者追踪并采取隔离观察和相关环境消毒等措施。
"There is no vaccine, the first line of defense is health education and self-protection," said a local disease control official in Hubei province. "Then patients go to the hospital and report suspicious cases to the CDC for testing.
发现病人的第一关口是医院。
The first point at which the patient was found was the hospital.
”国家卫健委高级别专家组成员曾光表示，疫情现在处于早期，必须得加强防控措施，让每个老百姓都知道。
Zeng Guang, a member of the national health committee's high-level panel, said the epidemic was now in its early stages and that prevention and control measures must be strengthened to let everyone know.
春节人口流动是很重要的一个因素，希望人群现在能不到武汉去就不去，武汉人能不出来就不出来。
The Spring Festival movement is a very important factor, hope that the crowd can not go to Wuhan now, Wuhan can not come out.
这不是官方的号召，是专家组的一些建议。
This is not an official call, but a number of the Panel's recommendations.
然而，武汉目前已经处在离城、返城高峰时期。
However, Wuhan is now in the period of departure and return to the peak of the city.
武汉公安交通部门1月18日公布的信息显示，武昌站、汉口站周边高峰拥堵延时指数比上个月分别上升 15.3%、10.5%；武昌站、宏基客运站周边道路高峰拥堵延时指数较上周增长 26.3%，较上月同期增长 24.8%。
Wuhan Public Security and Transport Department announced on January 18 that the peak congestion delay index around Wuchang Station and Hankou Station was up 15.3 percent and 10.5 percent respectively over the previous month, while Wuchang Station and Hongji Passenger Terminal were up 26.3 percent on the previous week and 24.8 percent on the same period last month.
每个人都热爱家乡，武汉的外来人口返乡过年也成为一个极为普通的事情。
Everyone loves their hometown. It has become a very common thing for the foreign population in Wuhan to return home for the New Year.
根据武汉市文化和旅游局发布的“2018年春节统计信息”，2018年武汉在春节期间发送人数为232.82万人。
According to the 2018 Spring Festival Statistics released by Wuhan Municipal Culture and Tourism Bureau, Wuhan sent 2,328,200 people during the Spring Festival in 2018.
之前更有互联网企业奇虎360大数据中心所发布2017年春节“空城指数”，武汉排名全国第九。
The Spring Festival 2017 "empty city index," released by the 360 major data center of Internet company Qihu, ranked ninth in China.
这个“空城指数”是360基于9亿用户春节前夕至除夕的迁徙态势分析而来。
The "empty city index" is based on 360 million users of the Spring Festival Eve to New Year's Eve migration situation analysis.
据统计，2018年春节全国空城率最高的十大城市分别是东莞、佛山、广州、深圳、长沙、上海、苏州、北京、武汉、郑州。
According to statistics, in 2018, the ten most empty cities in China were Dongguan, Foshan, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Changsha, Shanghai, Suzhou, Beijing, Wuhan and Zhengzhou.
武汉空城率48.18%，也就是说，近一半人口离开这座城市外出过年。
Wuhan empty city rate 48.18 percent, that is, nearly half of the population left the city for the New Year.
“这个病毒的潜伏期中位数是9天，目前所设的检验设备只能起到对发烧患者的监测，对于病毒携带者没有办法识别，未来可能有更多省份因为人口流动而出现新发病例。
"The virus has a median incubation period of nine days and currently has testing facilities that can only monitor people with fever. There is no way to identify people living with the virus and more provinces are likely to have new cases in the future as a result of population movements.
”一位流行病学专家表示。
An epidemiologist said.
一年一度的春运高峰即将到来，数亿人口或返乡或出游，这场防控大战也将进入最艰难最关键的时刻。
With hundreds of millions of people returning home or traveling, the annual spring rush is fast approaching, and the battle against the disease will enter its most difficult and critical phase.
【推荐阅读】钟南山肯定新型冠状病毒肺炎人传人。
Zhong Nan Shan confirmed the new coronavirus pneumonia human-to-human transmission.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从“未见明显人传人”到“人传人”，复盘武汉疫情二十天。
From "no obvious person-to-person" to "person-to-person", double disk epidemic situation in Wuhan 20 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "从“未见明显人传人”到“人传人”，复盘武汉疫情二十天";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; from "no apparent human-to-human" to "human-to-human", double-set Wuhan epidemic last twenty days;;
var msg_desc = "“武汉肺炎是否人传人”这个问题，一直受外界关注。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether Wuhan pneumonia is human-to-human has been a matter of concern.
在官方没有明确确认之前，公众的自我防护也由此减弱，直到北京、上海、深圳出现新发病例，公众才开始真正意识到：武汉肺炎原来不简单。
In the absence of official confirmation, public self-protection waned until new cases appeared in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen before the public began to realize that Wuhan pneumonia had never been easy.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '钟南山肯定新型冠状病毒肺炎人传人',。
Zhong Nan Shan is certainly at the service of new coronavirus pneumonia.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
