疫情信息还有多少个未解之谜？。
How many unsolved mysteries are there for epidemic information?
马晓华。
Ma Xiaohua.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
02.02.2020本文字数：3224，阅读时长大约5.5分钟导读：病毒传播路径的信息，为何在病毒全面开花扩散之后，源源不断地发表在论文上。
... 2008-09-20 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 15: 15: 55: 50: 55: 50: 50: 55: 50: 50: 50: 50: 50: 50: 50:::::
作者 | 第一财经马晓华从新型冠状病毒开始踏足武汉，到蔓延至全国甚至走出国门，这个过程中公众最疑惑的就是，病毒、疫情公开信息为何之前总是慢了一步、缺了一角。
From the start of the new coronavirus in Wuhan to its spread to the whole country and even abroad, the public has been most puzzled as to why the open information about the virus and the epidemic has always been slow and missing a corner.
迄今为止，病毒、疫情的公开信息还缺失什么？这些缺失的信息又会给防控新型肺炎带来什么障碍？患者接触了什么野生动物？1月28日，河南省卫健委公布了一组该省各地市的确诊病例信息，这在网络上被称为“最详情公布！居住地接触史旅行史住院详情！”这组公布的病例记录了多个病例的详尽过程，并没有太高深，也没有太多科学术语：比如其中一个病例：胡某，男，35岁，林州市开元街道办事处人，在株洲市一家公司工作，该公司1名员工于1月25日被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎。
What is missing is public information about the virus and the epidemic? What are the obstacles to preventing and controlling the new type of pneumonia? What kind of wild animals have patients encountered? On January 28, the Henan Provincial Health Commission released a detailed list of confirmed cases in various provinces and municipalities.
1月23日胡某与妻子乘火车到达安阳火车站，亲戚开车接回林州家中。
January 23, Hu and his wife by train to Anyang railway station, relatives driving back home in Linzhou.
24日胡某出现发热、头晕症状，自行服药后体温恢复正常。
24 Hu appeared fever, dizziness symptoms, self-medication temperature returned to normal.
26日因再次发热到林州市人民医院隔离治疗，后经专家组会诊，诊断为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疑似病例。
26 because of fever again to the people's hospital isolation treatment in Linzhou City, after expert group consultation, diagnosed as a new coronavirus infection pneumonia suspected cases.
27日，市疾控中心对采集的患者样本进行检测，结果显示呈病毒核酸阳性，予以确诊。
27, the city CDC took samples of patients tested positive for the virus nucleic acid, confirmed.
这些内容，其实是门诊医生每天都要问诊，并详细记录在病历本上的内容，并不是一个特殊的病例。
These, in fact, are consulted daily by the outpatient physician and are recorded in detail in the medical record, and are not a particular case.
不过，在疫情未被重视之前，这样的病例基本是缺失的。
However, such cases were largely absent until the epidemic was brought to the fore.
明确每一个患者的感染路径，对于未来的疫情防控却能起到很大的作用。
To clarify the infection route of each patient can play a great role in the prevention and control of future epidemic diseases.
对于公众而言，也可以知道用什么方式避免感染，感染之后通过什么路径去解决问题。
For the general public, it is also possible to know how to avoid infection and what route to take after infection.
“工作量极大，每个病例需要花2个小时。
"The workload is enormous, and it takes two hours per case.
”河南省疾控系统的一位工作人员对第一财经记者表示，这样做很值得。
'It's well worth it, 'a staff member of Henan's disease-control system told First Financial News.
他说，对于流行病学的分析十分重要，遇到病例后，通过理清传播链条，指导社区防控，可以有效切断传播。
He said that epidemiological analysis is important, in the event of a case, by clarifying the transmission chain, guiding community control, can effectively cut off transmission.
“任何时候都不能大意，任何时候都要加强疾控体系建设，以保证随时应对。
"We should not be careless at any time, we should strengthen the construction of disease control system at any time to ensure that we are ready to respond.
但是，预防为主的方针在日常工作中落实的太差了。
However, the prevention-based approach is poorly implemented in daily work.
”河南省疾控系统的这位工作人员说。
"Henan Province disease control system of the staff said.
不过，在抗击疫情的时候，这样的病例基本是缺失的。
However, in the fight against the epidemic, such cases are largely missing.
除了病例，还有一个关键的信息缺失：武汉最早的患者，尤其是那些与华南海鲜市场相关的患者，接触了什么野生动物。
In addition to cases, there is a crucial information gap: Wuhan's earliest patients, especially those associated with the South China seafood market, have been exposed to wild animals.
1月26日，新华社从中国疾控中心病毒病所了解到，该所在新型冠状病毒溯源研究中取得阶段性进展，首次从武汉华南海鲜市场的585份环境样本中，检测到33份样品含有新型冠状病毒核酸，并成功在阳性环境标本中分离病毒，提示该病毒来源于华南海鲜市场销售的野生动物。
On January 26, Xinhua learned from the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that the institute had made some progress in investigating the source of the new coronavirus. For the first time, 33 samples from 585 environmental samples from the south China seafood market in Wuhan were detected to contain new coronavirus nucleic acid.
中国疾控中心在2020年1月1日上午就赶赴华南海鲜市场，针对病例相关商户及相关街区集中采集环境样本515份，运送至病毒病所进行检测。
On the morning of January 1, 2020, the China CDC rushed to the South China Seafood Market and collected 515 environmental samples from case-related businesses and relevant neighborhoods for testing at the Virus Disease Center.
1月12日，病毒病所专家再次在华南海鲜市场采集野生动物贩卖商铺相关标本70份，并转运至实验室进行检测。
On January 12, experts from the Institute of Virus Disease once again collected 70 specimens from wildlife shops at the South China Seafood Market and transferred them to laboratories for testing.
此项工作展开的意义，中国疾控中心也明确表示：追溯病毒来源、控制源头、阐明病毒中间宿主，是控制该病毒持续从动物传染到人的关键环节。
What this means is that the CDC also makes it clear that tracing the source of the virus, controlling its source and clarifying its intermediate host are key to controlling its continuous transmission from animal to human.
可事实上，公众所获取的信息只有：高度怀疑此次疫情与野生动物交易有关。
In fact, the only information available to the public was a high level of suspicion that the outbreak was linked to the wildlife trade.
也有1月24日的论文现实，这个病毒与云南的蝙蝠是近亲，接近96%的重合度。
There is also the reality of the January 24 paper that the virus is closely related to bats in Yunnan Province, nearly 96% overlapping.
但到底是什么野生动物身上检测到了病毒？还有哪些样本也检测到了病毒？至今公众并不知晓。
But what wild animals have detected the virus? What other samples have been detected? The public does not know.
海鲜市场是不是唯一的源头？有关疫情、病毒的更多信息，是从近期公开发表的一篇篇论文中传递出来的。
Is the seafood market the only source? More information about the epidemic, the virus, is coming from a recently published paper.
2020年1月24日，北京中日友好医院曹彬及北京协和医学院王建伟作为共同通讯作者，在国际顶级医学期刊 Lancet 《柳叶刀》在线发表题为 《武汉2019年新型冠状病毒感染患者的临床特征》（ “Clinical features of patients infected with 2019 novel coronavirus in Wuhan, China”） 的论文，分析了武汉最初41名确诊病例的临床特征。
On January 24, 2020, Cao Bin of the Beijing Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital and Wang Jianwei of the Beijing Concoronavirus Medical School, as co-authors, published an online paper entitled "Clinical Features of Persons Infected with the 2019 Novel Coronavirus in Wuhan, China" in the leading international medical journal Lancet, and analysed the clinical features of the first 41 confirmed cases in Wuhan.
这篇研究中称， 武汉最早的病例在12月1日发病，而且与华南海鲜市场没有关联。
The earliest cases in Wuhan fell ill on December 1 and were not linked to the South China seafood market, the study said.
且研究数据表明，41例确诊病例中的13例，与华南海鲜市场并无关联。
And the data showed that 13 of the 41 confirmed cases were not related to the South China seafood market.
北京时间1月27日，国际顶级期刊Science杂志也在线发表了一篇题为《武汉华南海鲜市场可能并非新型冠状病毒发源地》（ “Wuhan seafood market may not be source of novel virus spreading globally”）的文章， 称新型冠状病毒或许并非源于华南海鲜市场。
The new coronavirus may not have originated in the South China seafood market, according to an article in the international top journal Science on Monday, saying the new coronavirus may not have originated in the southern Chinese seafood market.
“有患者与华南海鲜市场无直接关系的可能性是存在的。
"There is a possibility that there is no direct relationship between patients and the South China seafood market.
如果华南海鲜市场的产品携带病毒，卖给消费者，消费者接触到病毒后，因为自身免疫力低下进而患病也是自然，这并不意外。
If products from the South China seafood market carry the virus and sell it to consumers, it is not surprising that consumers are exposed to the virus because their immunity is low and they become ill.
因为对于携带病毒的产品，（我们）并没有公布，也没有召回。
Because there is no announcement or recall of products that carry the virus.
”一位资深病毒学家表示。
"said a senior virologist.
不能否认的是，中国科学家对于这个新发传染病并没有停止科学应该做的事情，溯源、流行病学调查、诊断试剂研制、疫苗研发、药物筛选、临床诊治等等，一个都不会少。
It cannot be denied that Chinese scientists have not stopped doing what science should do with this new infectious disease, traceability, epidemiological investigation, development of diagnostic reagents, vaccine development, drug screening, clinical diagnosis, and so on.
只不过，这些信息大多见诸于论文，特别是病毒传播路径的信息，在公开方面更是打了折扣的。
However, most of this information can be found in the paper, especially in the spread of the virus path information, and in the public is discounted.
人传人的判断何时得出？美国时间1月29日，中国疾控中心领衔的研究团队在新英格兰医学杂志发表了一篇名为《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎在中国武汉的早期传播动力学》（“Early Transmission Dynamics in Wuhan, China, of Novel Coronavirus–Infected Pneumonia”）的论文，其中提到了一个很重要的发现：研究表明，自2019年12月中旬以来，密切接触者之间已经发生了人际传播。
In a paper in the New England Journal of Medicine entitled Early Transmission Dynamics of Pneumonia from a New Coronavirus Infection in Wuhan, China, of Novel Coronavirus-Infered Pneumonia, a paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29, 2008.
同时他们研究了三个时期的病例特征：第一个时间段是1月1日（关闭华南海鲜批发市场的日期）前发病的患者；第二阶段是1月1日至1月11日（向武汉提供RT-PCR试剂的日期）期间发病的患者；第三个时间段是1月12日或之后发病的患者。
They also looked at case characteristics over three periods: the first period was for patients who developed symptoms before 1 January (the date of closure of the South China Wholesale Seafood Market); the second for patients who developed illnesses between 1 January and 11 January (the date on which RT-PCR reagents were supplied to Wuhan); and the third for patients who developed symptoms on or after January 12.
发病较早的患者年龄略轻，男性比例较高，报告华南海鲜批发市场暴露史的比例明显较高。
The incidence of early patients is slightly younger, the proportion of men is higher, the proportion of reported South China seafood wholesale market exposure is significantly higher.
医务人员在病例中所占的比例在三个时间段逐步增加。
The proportion of medical staff in the number of cases has gradually increased over three time periods.
由此可见，人传人的迹象早就存在，医务人员也正因此逐渐出现了感染，而并不是官方通报所说的“未见明显的人传人”。
Thus, signs of human-to-human transmission have long existed, leading to a gradual spread of infection among medical personnel, rather than the "absence of significant human-to-human transmission," as officially reported.
但直到1月20日，公众才通过专家之口了解到这一点。
But it was not until January 20 that the public learned of this through the mouth of experts.
1月20日下午，在针对“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情”有关防控情况记者问答会上，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长钟南山院士证实了武汉肺炎的“人传人”，且有医护感染。
On January 20, in the afternoon, in response to the "new coronavirus infection of pneumonia" related to the prevention and control of the situation, Academician Zhong Nan-shan, chairman of the high-level expert group, confirmed the "human-to-human" nature of Wuhan pneumonia, and there were medical infections.
北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任、新型冠状病毒感染肺炎专家组成员王广发在接受媒体采访时说，自己在1月中旬去武汉参与疫情防控工作时，根据当时掌握的资料，没有明确的证据显示有人传人。
Wang Guangfa, director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1 and a member of a panel of experts on the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, told reporters that when he went to Wuhan in mid-January to participate in the prevention and control of the epidemic, there was no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission.
特别是医务人员的感染。
This is particularly true of infections among medical personnel.
1月29日新英格兰医学杂志发表的上述论文，从科学角度提出：“如果其他地区的传播动力学也相似，我们将需要付出相当大的努力来减少传播，从而控制疫情。
The paper, published in the New England Journal of Medicine on January 29, offers a scientific perspective: "If the dynamics of transmission are similar in other regions, we will need to make considerable efforts to reduce transmission and thus control the outbreak.
应在高危人群中采取预防或减少传播的措施”。
Measures to prevent or reduce transmission should be taken among populations most at risk. "
但这个提醒显得来得晚了些，因为确诊病例已经遍布全国甚至走出国门。
But the warning came later, as confirmed cases have spread across the country and even out of the country.
公众想问的是，研究人员1月1日就进入现场进行流行病调查，为何在病毒已经透出“人传人”端倪的时候没有看到它的秘密？病毒传播路径的信息，为何在病毒全面开花扩散之后，源源不断地发表在论文上？传播系数模拟计算做了吗？信息公开得不充分，会让公众心中的裂痕不断加深。
What the public want to ask is why researchers went to the scene on January 1 for an epidemiological investigation, why didn't they see the virus's secrets when the virus first appeared to spread from person to person?
为了让信息公开有法可依，2008年5月1日，中国开始实施《中华人民共和国政府信息公开条例》，这是为了保障公民、法人和其他组织依法获取政府信息，提高政府工作的透明度，建设法治政府，充分发挥政府信息对人民群众生产、生活和经济社会活动的服务作用而制定。
In order to ensure that information is made available in accordance with the law, on 1 May 2008, China began to implement the Regulations on the Disclosure of Information of the Government of the People's Republic of China, aimed at guaranteeing citizens, legal persons and other organizations access to government information in accordance with the law, enhancing the transparency of government work and building a government under the rule of law.
伦敦帝国理工学院科学家的处理方式，与我们有所不同。
Scientists at Imperial College London deal with it differently than we do.
1月17日，伦敦帝国理工学院网站上发出了一个报告——《估计中国武汉市新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）病例的潜在总数》，这个报告通过建模合作，分析出新型冠状病毒的传播系数，同时提醒：在类似规模的SARS和MERS疫情中的经验表明，目前不应排除人与人之间的传播。
On January 17, a report published on the Imperial College of Technology website in London, Estimating the Potential Total Number of New Coronavirus Cases in Wuhan, China, analysed the transmission coefficient of the new coronavirus through modelling collaboration, while cautioning that human-to-human transmission should not be ruled out at this time, as experience with SARS and MERS on a similar scale suggests.
对比29日新英格兰医学杂志发表的论文，该文给出了新型冠状病毒基本再生数（R0）约为2.2的预估。
In comparison with the paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine on May 29, this paper gives an estimate of a new coronavirus number (R0) of about 2.2.
这个系数直接关乎后续发病患者增长的速度和量值，但此前公众并不知晓。
The coefficient is directly related to the rate and amount of increase in subsequent cases, but previously the public did not know.
所以，是科学家没有进行这个传播系数的模拟计算，还是计算后没有第一时间告知公众？“真正要战胜新冠病毒，就要让信息跑在病毒前面。
So did the scientists not simulate the propagation coefficient, or did they not tell the public in the first place? "To really defeat the new crown virus, you have to put the information in front of the virus."
这要求信息的真实性，也要求信息的及时性。
This requires both the authenticity of the information and its timeliness.
” 经济学家盛洪在其撰写的文章中如此表示。
So says the economist Shen Hong in his article.
如果更多有助于防控新型冠状病毒的信息，包括康复患者是否还携带病毒具有传染性等信息，依然只是在后续的论文中不断呈现出来，那我们将只能继续跟在病毒后面。
If more information on the prevention and control of the new coronavirus, including whether the convalescent patients still carry the virus as infectious, remains to be seen in subsequent papers, we will have to continue to follow the virus.
【推荐阅读】UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态。
Wuhan prices, transportation and living conditions. This film is titled "Empty City."
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情信息还有多少个未解之谜？。
How many unsolved mysteries are there for epidemic information?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情信息还有多少个未解之谜？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How many unanswered questions about the epidemic?;
var msg_desc = "病毒传播路径的信息，为何在病毒全面开花扩散之后，源源不断地发表在论文上。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Information about the virus's route of transmission has been published in a steady stream since the virus spread in full bloom.
";。
;; & quot;
title: 'UP主实拍：“空城”武汉的物价、交通 、生活状态',。
At & nbsp; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
