一位自我救助肺炎患者的后续：发烧第11天，进入火神山医院。
Follow-up of a self-help pneumonia patient: Fever day 11, enter Mount Fire Hospital.
安卓。
Android.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
05.02.2020本文字数：2315，阅读时长大约4分钟导读：“我希望鼓励所有人，病毒，不是不可战胜的。
2008-09-04 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 15: 15, reading: "I hope to encourage everyone, the virus is not invincible.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
作者 | 第一财经安卓终于，在2月4日的早上10点多，武汉汉口的刘文（化名），在发烧的第11天、入院后的第6天，坐上了前往去火神山医院的救护车。
At last, at more than 10 a.m. on February 4, Liu Wen (not his real name), from Hankou City, Wuhan, took an ambulance to Huoshen Hospital on the 11th day of fever and the sixth day after admission.
在火神山医院，他虽然依旧在和病魔做斗争，但心里却充满了希望。
At Mount Fire Hospital, he was still struggling with the disease, but his heart was full of hope.
他拍了多个视频，并发到了抖音上。
He took a number of videos and dithered them.
在视频中，刘文一边咳嗽、喘着粗气，一边说，这里的条件很好，远远超出我的想象。
In the video, Liu Wen coughs and gasps for breath, saying that conditions here are good, far beyond my wildest imagination.
1月底，持续高烧的刘文在家隔离，自我救助，他的情绪始终保持着冷静、克制，但随着病情的加重，家人们也陆续出现了发烧症状，让刘文做出了无论如何都要入院治疗的决定。
At the end of January, Liu Wen, who continued to suffer from a high fever, was kept in isolation and helped himself. But as his illness got worse, family members developed fever and Liu made the decision to hospitalize him anyway.
本报于1月28日刊出了刘文的经历文章《一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天》受到了极大的关注。
Liuwen's article, Self-Help for a Suspected New Crown Patient: Taking Medicine in lieu of a Medicine and Chatting Through the Door, was published on January 28.
刘文说，“我一定要尽快恢复，给所有关心我的人一个信心。
"I must recover as soon as possible and give everyone who cares about me confidence," Liu said.
”连日来的经历，让刘文变成了一个特别容易落泪的人，“我一个40多岁的老爷们，最近这一个多星期，特别容易哭，哭的次数比过去几十年都还要多。
Over the past few days, Liu Wen has become a particularly tear-prone person. "My 40-year-olds have been particularly prone to tears these past week or so, more than in the last few decades.
”而自打1月31日住院后，医院从没向他提过费用的事情。
Since he was admitted to the hospital on January 31, he has never been told about the fees.
“国家承担费用，不是空话，感谢国家。
"The state bears the cost, not the empty talk, thanks to the state.
”他说。
'he said.
国家卫生健康委员会官方网站显示，截至2月4日24时，国家卫生健康委收到31个省（自治区、直辖市）和新疆生产建设兵团累计报告确诊病例24324例（海南省核减1例），现有重症病例3219例，累计死亡病例490例，累计治愈出院病例892例（海南省、湖北省各核减1例），现有疑似病例23260例。
According to the official website of the National Council of Health and Sanitation, as of 2400 hours on February 4, the National Health and Wellness Commission had received 24,324 cases of confirmed cases reported by 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (1 case in Hainan Province).
目前累计追踪到密切接触者252154人，当日解除医学观察18457人，现有185555人正在接受医学观察。
At present, 252,154 people have been traced to close contacts, 18,457 medical observers were relieved on the same day, and 18,5555 are now under medical observation.
入院有连续几天的时间，在药物的作用下，刘文（化名）的体温起起伏伏，整个人就如同身处惊涛骇浪中。
After several days of hospitalization, Liu Wen's body temperature rose and fell under the influence of drugs, making him feel like a man in a sea of surges.
“我这个人，从来不吃鸡肉，但是为了身体能量，强忍住吃了鸡汤面。
"I've never eaten chicken, but I've had chicken noodle for energy.
生病太可怕了，开始吃啥都吐。
Illness was so terrible that I began to vomit everything I ate.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
随着高烧的加重，刘文觉得，自己无论如何也要住院了。
As the fever worsened, Liu felt that he would be hospitalized anyway.
1月30日早上，在听说协和医院西区开了新病区、有700张床位后，刘文决定试一试。
On the morning of January 30, Liu decided to try a new section of Concorde Hospital with 700 beds in the western part of the hospital.
上午，刘文拖着病体，开车几十公里，却在靠近协和医院的地方被警察拦住了，因为全市禁行之际没有通行证，而且发烧，不能过去，无奈之下只好返回。
In the morning, Liu Wen dragged his patient for dozens of kilometers, but was stopped by the police near Concorde Hospital because the city was banned from travelling without a permit and had a fever.
到了下午，一个朋友告诉刘文，武汉市中心医院新开了病区，有床位，刘文赶紧又到了武汉市中心医院，这一次他顺利入院，“入院之后才发现，出门太匆忙，啥都没带，就连卫生纸还是第二天找了跑腿接单买到的。
In the afternoon, a friend told Liu Wen that the central hospital in Wuhan had opened a new sick area with beds. Liu Wen hastened to Wuhan Central Hospital. This time he was admitted to the hospital.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
当天晚上，刘文的太太给他打电话，不好的消息是，他们的女儿也在发烧。
That night, Liu Wen's wife called him. The bad news was that their daughter, too, had a fever.
那一刻，刘文觉得自己的心都要碎了，但他在疾病面前却无能为力，只能争取让自已早日康复。
At that moment, Liu Wen felt that his heart was broken, but he could not do anything in the face of disease, can only strive to recover as soon as possible.
“那一天夜里，我睡得非常不好，半夜两点多，肺部突然一阵剧痛，醒过来了。
"That night I slept very badly, and after two o'clock in the night my lungs suddenly started to ache and wake up.
”刘文说，从离开家以来一直戴着N95的口罩，再加上本身呼吸就不顺畅，刘文觉得，呼吸都快成了“奢侈品”。
Liu said he had been wearing a N95 mask since he left home and was having trouble breathing himself.
1月31日早上5点半，刘文被护士叫醒抽血、做咽拭子检测。
January 31, 5: 30 a.m., Liu Wen was awakened by the nurse to draw blood, do pharynx swab test.
连日来的高烧、呕吐，让刘文体质虚弱，血管很不好找。
Over the past few days of high fever, vomiting, so that Liu Wen physique weak, blood vessels are very difficult to find.
从手肘、手背到脚上，勉强才凑齐了6管血。
From elbow to arm to foot, barely made it to six tubes of blood.
护士还给刘文扎了留置针，滴上了第一瓶药。
The nurse also placed a lien on Liu's needle and dripped the first bottle of medicine.
护士说，病人多，药供应有些紧张。
The nurse said there were many patients and the supply of medicine was tight.
早上8点半，医院送来了早餐，这让刘文觉得惊喜，他以为医院已经无暇顾及餐食，自己只能靠饼干过日子，没想到会有早餐：菜肉包、稀粥、煮鸡蛋。
At 8: 30 in the morning, the hospital brought breakfast, which surprised Liu Wen, he thought the hospital had no leisure for meals, they can only live on biscuits, did not expect to have breakfast: meat, porridge, boiled eggs.
虽然一直想吐，但刘文还是三下五除二把早餐吞了下去。
Although I always feel sick, Liu wen swallowed my breakfast in half.
因为他知道，只有吃饱了，身体才有力气和病毒打仗。
For he knew that it was only when he was satisfied that the body had the strength to fight the virus.
同一天，刘文的母亲，70多岁的老人家，在步行了一个多小时后到达医院，排队两个小时做上了检查，双肺感染，高度疑似病例，开始打针。
On the same day, Liu's mother, a 70-year-old woman, arrived at the hospital after a walk of more than an hour, standing in line for two hours for a check-up, a two-lung infection, a highly suspicious case and the start of injections.
刘文的太太情况也不好，同样是连续多日高烧，但她只能在家坚持，因为没有人愿意接走他们的女儿，小姑娘才9岁，不能把她一个人留在家里。
Liu Wen's wife was also in bad shape, with a high fever for many days in a row, but she had to stay at home because no one wanted to pick up their daughter, who was only nine years old and could not be left at home alone.
转院入院治疗以来，刘文的体温始终在38度左右徘徊，尤其是2月1日下午已经飙到了39度。
Since his transfer to hospital, Liu's temperature has hovered around 38 degrees, especially in the afternoon of February 1, when he was at 39 degrees.
由于剧烈咳嗽，导致从腹肌到胸骨的地方都在痛，“最严重的是，身体的疼痛会影响吃饭，每吃一口饭，足足要疼上一分多钟，真是拼劲全力在吃，吃了差不多半个小时，才吃了很小一口。
"The worst of it is that the pain in the body affects eating. For every mouthful of food, it takes more than a minute of pain to eat. It takes almost half an hour for a small bite to eat
但我只能拼命吃，拼命喝，一切为了能尽快出院回家。
But I can only eat desperately, drink desperately, in order to be discharged from the hospital as soon as possible.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
这一天，外面开始抢购双黄连口服液，因为在前一天，有新闻说双黄连口服液可以抵抗病毒。
That day, the outside began snapping up Shuanghuanglian oral liquid, because the previous day, the news that Shuanghuanglian oral liquid can resist the virus.
“我的朋友直接去抢到了想寄给我，我真的很感动。
"My friend went straight to get it and wanted to send it to me. I was really moved.
但现实是，快递不通。
But the reality is, express delivery doesn't work.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
2月2日，刘文的体温已经达到39度以上，血氧饱和度是90%。
On February 2, Liu Wen's temperature had reached above 39 degrees and his blood oxygen saturation was 90 percent.
而在1月26日，刘文发烧的第3天，他的血氧饱和度是正常的。
On January 26, the third day of Liu's fever, his blood oxygen saturation was normal.
“早上呼吸科主任过来看我，对我说，一般这个病会在第10天达到最高峰，让我一定要挺住，他们会给我使用激素，帮助我渡过这个艰难的阶段。
"When the respiratory director came to see me in the morning, he told me that the disease usually peaked on the 10th day, so I had to hold on to it and they would give me hormones to help me through this difficult period.
只要过去了，达到第14天，就基本上差不多了。
As long as it's over, by the 14th day, it's about the same.
当然，如果那个时候再进一步恶化的话，就要开始抢救。
Of course, if it gets any worse by then, we'll have to start rescuing it.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
刘文在医院时接受治疗，外面这时也送来了好消息：刘文的太太已经退烧了，孩子也没有再发烧，尤其是母亲也开始退烧。
Liu Wen was being treated at the hospital, when good news came from outside. Liu's wife had gone down with fever, and the child had no fever.
“我哭到不能自已，只要她们都扛过去了就好。
"I can't help crying, as long as they carry it over.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
2月3日，一切都在向更好的方向进展。
On 3 February, everything was moving in a better direction.
这一天，好消息接踵而至，首先，前一天的激素治疗发挥了作用，刘文烧退了，血氧饱和度回归正常。
This day, good news came, first, the hormone treatment the day before played a role, Liu Wenfei retired, blood oxygen saturation returned to normal.
“早上，医生还通知我，我可能会被送到火神山医院，军医们正在查看我的资料，并进行审批，一旦确定，下午就会送我过去。
"In the morning, the doctor also informed me that I might be taken to Mount Fire Hospital, and that the doctors were checking my papers and approving them, and that once they were certain, they would send me there in the afternoon.
我应该是幸运的。
I'm supposed to be lucky.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
这一天，尽管已经不再发烧，刘文的母亲还是被社区接到统一的隔离点，是一个新建但还没有开业的宾馆，被政府部门征用，每人一间，条件还不错。
This day, although no longer feverish, Liu's mother was received by the community into a unified isolation point, is a new but not yet opened hotel, requisitioned by government departments, each in good conditions.
太太也被通知去社区做核酸检测。
The wife was also told to go to the community for a nucleic acid test.
终于，在2月4日的早上10点多，刘文发烧的第11天，入院后的第6天，他坐上了前往去火神山医院的救护车，到了火神山医院。
Finally, on February 4 at more than 10 a.m., Liu Wenfei 11 days after the hospital, he took to the fire god mountain hospital to the ambulance, to the fire god mountain hospital.
最好的医院、最先进的设备和最优秀的医生，刘文说，他觉得自己很快就可以痊愈了。
The best hospitals, state-of-the-art equipment and the best doctors, Liu said, feeling like he would soon recover.
【推荐阅读】高福回应论文质疑：大家没看明白，混淆了论文与临床诊断。
Gao Fu responds to the thesis by questioning that people misunderstand and confuse the paper with the clinical diagnosis.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位自我救助肺炎患者的后续：发烧第11天，进入火神山医院。
Follow-up of a self-help pneumonia patient: Fever day 11, enter Mount Fire Hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一位自我救助肺炎患者的后续：发烧第11天，进入火神山医院";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Follow-up with a self-help patient with pneumonia: 11 days of fever, at & quot; & quot; at Mars Hospital;;
var msg_desc = "“我希望鼓励所有人，病毒，不是不可战胜的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "I wish to encourage everyone that the virus is not invincible.
”刘文说。
"said Liu.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天',。
A suspected new crown patient's self-help: Take a prescription and chat with AT & amp; apos; via the door.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一位疑似新冠病人的自我救助：换着药方吃药，隔着房门聊天',。
A suspected new crown patient's self-help: Take a prescription and chat with AT & amp; apos; via the door.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '高福回应论文质疑：大家没看明白，混淆了论文与临床诊断',。
Answer with a question: People did not understand, confused with clinical diagnosis and & apos; & quot;.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '高福回应论文质疑：大家没看明白，混淆了论文与临床诊断',。
Answer with a question: People did not understand, confused with clinical diagnosis and & apos; & quot;.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
