李文亮和他的最后十天。
Li Wenliang and his last ten days.
吕进玉 林志吟。
Jade Lin Zhiyin.
第一财经                      。
First Finance.
第一财经。
First Finance.
第一财经官方公众号，致力为广大投资者打造最权威的财经信息平台，同时，努力成为第一财经忠实用户的交流平台。
First Financial Official Public Number, dedicated to create the most authoritative financial information platform for investors, and at the same time, strive to become the first financial loyal users of the exchange platform.
。
.
08.02.2020本文字数：2576，阅读时长大约5分钟导读：新型冠状病毒何时在他身上安家已难以追溯，但在2020年2月7日2时58分将其吞噬的日子已被铭记下来。
The date on which the new coronavirus settled on him could not be traced back, but the date on which it was consumed was remembered at 0258 hours on 7 February 2020.
作者 | 第一财经吕进玉 林志吟2019年10月12日生日这一天，眼科医生李文亮在微博中留下“新的一岁希望能做个简单的人，看得清世间繁杂却不在心中留下痕迹，保持足够的平常心。
Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist on his 12th birthday on October 12, 2019, left "a new year old who wants to be a simple person, able to see the complexities of the world without leaving any traces in their hearts and keep enough of them."
”他用“炸鸡”犒赏了33岁的自己，并定位他在武汉市中心医院。
He rewarded himself for "fried chicken" and set him on a pedestal at Wuhan Central Hospital.
那是他最后一个生日。
It was his last birthday.
2020年，一场由他和同伴“吹哨”警示的新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情，如今确诊人数已达到31232例，疑似26359例，治愈1572例（截至2020年2月7日16时）。
In 2020, the number of confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia, a new type of coronavirus alerted by him and his companions, has reached 31,232 cases, with 26,359 suspected cases, and 1572 cases cured (as of 16: 00 hours on February 7, 2020).
而他却成为了死亡637例这些冰冷数字中的一员。
And he was one of the 637 cold deaths.
新型冠状病毒何时在他身上安家已难以追溯，但在2020年2月7日2时58分将其吞噬的日子已被铭记下来。
It is difficult to trace when the new coronavirus settled on him, but the date on which it was consumed was remembered at 0258 hours on 7 February 2020.
回顾李文亮的病情发展，2020年1月8日，李文亮接诊了一个无发热症状的病人，且未做防护。
On January 8, 2020, Li Wenliang attended a patient with no fever symptoms and did not take precautions.
当天他开始出现咳嗽，第二天开始发热。
He began to cough the same day and had a fever the next day.
1月12日，李文亮查了呼吸道病毒，做了CT，因高度怀疑是新冠病毒肺炎而正式住院。
On January 12, Li Wenliang checked the respiratory virus, made a CT, due to a high degree of suspicion that the new crown virus pneumonia was officially hospitalized.
1月24日，李文亮病情加重，进入了他任职的武汉市中心医院呼吸内科重症监护室接受治疗，生活起居靠医生护士照料。
On January 24, Li Wenliang became seriously ill and was admitted to the intensive care unit of the respiratory department of Wuhan Central Hospital, where he worked.
也就在前一天，武汉宣布"封城"，公共交通暂停运营，离汉通道关闭。
Just the day before, Wuhan announced that it had & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
在李文亮治疗期间的28日，最高人民法院在官方公众号上贴出了一篇题《治理有关新型肺炎的谣言问题，这篇文章说清楚了》的文章，引发强烈关注，文中提及：“执法机关面对虚假信息，应充分考虑信息发布者、传播者在主观上的恶性程度，及其对事物的认知能力。
"In the face of false information, law enforcement agencies should take full account of the subjective malignancy of the publisher or disseminator of information and their ability to perceive things," Li said in a statement posted on the official public website.
只要信息基本属实，发布者、传播者主观上并无恶意，行为客观上并未造成严重的危害，我们对这样的‘虚假信息’理应保持宽容态度。
As long as the information is basically true, publishers and disseminators of subjective and no serious harm caused by the act objectively, we should maintain tolerance to such 'false information'.
”这或许可以让躺在病床上的李文亮，获得一丝安慰。
"It may give Li Wenliang, who is lying in his bed, a little comfort.
2019年12月30日，李文亮曾在朋友群披露疫情消息，2020年1月1日被警方传唤，1月3日收到训诫书。
On 30 December 2019, Li Wenliang was summoned by the police on 1 January 2020 and received a reprimand on 3 January, after disclosing information about the outbreak among a group of friends.
1月30日，李文亮在接受媒体采访时透露，进入重症监护室后当时他住在一个四人间的隔离病房，不过这一病房里只住了两个人，他能够用手机和外界保持联系，护士每天会帮他擦脸、擦身体。
After entering the intensive care unit, Li Wenliang said on January 30 that he was in a four-room isolation ward, but there were only two people in the ward. He was able to keep in touch with the outside world on his cell phone, and the nurse cleaned his face and body every day.
也就是在这一天，医生告知他的核酸检测结果已经转阴了。
That was the day doctors told him the nucleic acid test results had turned cloudy.
这是他第二次核酸检测结果为阴性（即尚未确诊，仍为疑似）。
This was his second negative nucleic acid test (i.e. undiagnosed and still suspected).
“但是这是咽拭子的结果，我觉得代表不了肺泡。
"But that's the result of swabbing the pharynx, which I don't think represents alveoli.
肺功能恢复还需要一段时间，只是还有一些呼吸困难，一直需要高流量吸氧，还吃不下太多东西。
It will take some time for the lungs to recover, but there is still some breathing difficulties, and there is always a need for high flow of oxygen and too much to eat.
“李文亮在当时接受媒体采访时形容。
"In an interview with the media, Li Wenliang described it.
从李文亮的微博可以看出，他是一个吃货，喜欢奶茶、炸鸡、火锅和日本料理。
From Li Wenliang micro-blog can see that he is a food, like milk tea, fried chicken, hotpot and Japanese food.
在厦门工作的三年中，经常定位在咖啡馆或是晒一些未经修饰的美食图片。
During the three years I worked in Xiamen, I often set myself up in a cafe or bask in unadorned pictures of delicious food.
“我跟他（李文亮）一起去过福州眼科医院支援，他工作起来特别积极、细致。
"I went to Fuzhou Eye Hospital with him [Li Wenliang] and he worked very hard and carefully.
早期他的朋友圈都以吃为主线，吃个食堂都能把菜品描述成舌尖上的中国，非常热爱生活的一个人。
Early on his circle of friends are eating the main line, eating a canteen can be described as the tip of the tongue on China, a very love of life.
女生缘也特别好，所以2014年2月份听说他要回武汉结婚时，我们还很舍不得他离开。
Girls are also particularly popular, so in February 2014, when they heard that he was going back to Wuhan to marry, we were still reluctant to leave him.
”厦门大学附属厦门眼科中心眼表科主治医师罗顺荣在对第一财经记者回忆时说。
Lu Shunrong, chief ophthalmologist at Xiamen Ophthalmology Center, a subsidiary of Xiamen University, told the first financial reporter.
1月31日，李文亮仍抱着治愈希望。
On January 31, Lee remained hopeful of a cure.
当天中午12点14分，他在微博中发文称，“经过治疗最近有进行一次检测，我的核酸显示为阴性了，但是目前仍然呼吸困难，无法活动。
At 12: 14 p.m. on the same day, he wrote in a microblog: "After treatment I recently had a test and my nucleic acid was negative, but I still have difficulty breathing and cannot move.
”同时，李文亮在微博中感谢了大家的支持，也澄清了其未被吊销执照，正在积极配合治疗，争取早日出院。
Meanwhile, in Weibo, Li thanked everyone for their support, clarified that his license had not been revoked and was actively cooperating with treatment to get out of the hospital sooner.
“最挂念我的家人，我的父母还在住院，我的爱人现在怀着孕。
"I miss my family the most, my parents are still in hospital and my wife is pregnant.
现在什么都不重要了，我希望疫情赶快控制住，大家都能好好的。
It doesn't matter now. I hope the epidemic is under control. We can all do well.
”李文亮曾这样憧憬。
"Li Wenliang once dreamed of it.
李文亮也还想，康复后，上一线。
Li Wenliang also wants to recover, on the first line.
然而两天后的2月1日，第三次核酸检测结果出来，他用微博发了最后的一条信息，宣告自己被正式确诊。
But two days later, on February 1, the third nucleic acid test results came out, and he posted the final message, announcing that he had been officially diagnosed.
“今天核酸检测结果阳性，尘埃落定，终于确诊了。
"Today, the nucleic acid test was positive, the dust settled and the diagnosis was made.
”在微博记录下这句时，李文亮文末还附带一个吐舌头淘气表情包，各种情感难以言状。
At the end of the post, Li Wenliang came with a mischievous tongue-spitting bag, all sorts of emotions beyond words.
李文亮从1月12日因高度怀疑住院到2月1日才确诊，竟然用了20天之久。
It took as long as 20 days for Li to be diagnosed on January 12, when he was hospitalized on high suspicion.
一位第三方检测人士对第一财经记者表示，核酸检测出现假阴性，可能有多方面的原因：可能在早期，病毒含量比较低，使用的技术检测不出来；二是与采集样本有关，采样不当的话未取到含病毒的样本。
A third-party tester told leading financial reporters that false-negative nucleic acid tests could be due to a number of factors: the virus may have been low in the early stages and the technology used could not be detected; and samples were collected, and samples containing the virus were not recovered if improperly sampled.
李文亮依旧在憧憬出院的那一天。
Li Wenliang is still looking forward to the day of discharge.
2月4日，丁香园后台数据还显示，李文亮最后一次登陆他的丁香园账户。
On February 4, the Lilac Garden backstage data also showed that Li Wenliang last landed in his clove garden account.
病房外，疫情仍在肆虐。
Outside the ward, the epidemic is still raging.
病房内，李文亮在与病情作殊死搏斗。
In the ward, Li Wenliang was fighting life and death with his illness.
2月5日，李文亮的病情开始恶化了。
On February 5, Li Wenliang's condition began to deteriorate.
2月6日晚上7点，他被推进了急救室。
On 6 February, at 7 p.m., he was wheeled into the emergency room.
22时左右，李文亮去世消息的瞬间在社交媒体上铺天盖地传开。
Around 22: 00, the instant news of Li's death spread across the social media.
坏消息终究在之后的几个小时盖棺定论。
After all, the bad news was sealed in the next few hours.
2月7日凌晨3点48分，武汉中心医院官微发布消息：“我院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新冠肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世。
At 3: 48 a.m. on February 7, officials of Wuhan Central Hospital announced: "I hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, in the fight against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic unfortunately infected, after all efforts to rescue the unsuccessful, died on February 7, 2020 at 2.58 a.m.
对此我们深表痛惜和哀悼。
We deeply deplore and mourn this.
”回顾李文亮从确诊到身故的轨迹，时间只有一周。
Looking back at the trajectory from diagnosis to death, it was only a week.
为何这么年轻的李文亮，病情进展如此凶猛？一般而言，像李文亮这样的年轻人病情较轻，60岁以上的年龄偏大的患者病情则会比较重，与这些患者所具有的糖尿病、高血压、肾病等基础性疾病有关，容易引发并发症，导致疾病重症化。
In general, young people such as Li Wenliang are less ill, while older patients over the age of 60 suffer more serious illnesses associated with basic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease, which can easily lead to complications and serious illness.
记者在采访中了解到，李文亮在疑似感染以前，一直在眼科，也并未去到一线。
Reporters in the interview learned that Li Wenliang in suspected infection before, has been in ophthalmology, also did not go to the front.
上海一呼吸科主任医师在接受第一财经记者采访时认为，新冠肺炎总体而言病死率不是特别高，但并不意味着没有发展到重症的，现在可以看到重症和危重症还是占到一个相当的比例。
In an interview with leading financial reporter, a respiratory director in Shanghai said the overall death rate of Newcastle pneumonia was not particularly high, but it did not mean that the disease did not develop into serious illness.
死亡率在武汉会较高一些。
The mortality rate will be higher in Wuhan.
尤其要注意的是，人群是普遍易感的，并非只有老年人和有基础疾病的死亡率才高。
It should be noted, in particular, that the general population is susceptible to high mortality rates, not only among the elderly and those with underlying diseases.
年轻人重症和危重症的只是相对几率更小，但是仍然会有这种风险。
Young people are only relatively less likely to be seriously ill and critically ill, but there is still a risk.
李文亮逝世的消息，让身边的亲朋好友也措手不及。
The news of Li Wenliang's death caught relatives and friends by surprise.
“愿你的牺牲能够为这世间点亮哪怕是文弱的亮光，正如你的名字一样！”曾与李文亮共事过的厦门大学附属厦门眼科中心眼表科主治医师刘昭升泣不成声。
"May your sacrifice light up the world just as your name suggests!" Liu Zhaosheng, an ophthalmologist at Xiamen Ophthalmology Center affiliated with Xiamen University, who worked with him.
受肺炎感染的还有李文亮的父母。
Also infected with pneumonia are Li Wenliang's parents.
2月6日晚上，刚治愈出院的李文亮父母匆匆赶到医院。
Feb. 6 evening, just cured left the hospital Li Wenliang parents rushed to the hospital.
“20多天以前他的病情基本是稳定的，也能下床，还能吃饭，突然就这两天恶化就这样了，他们医院驱车把我们接过来了，然后给他尸体送殡仪馆去了，完了回来在医院处理我儿子的遗物，没有见到最后一面，就在医院抢救治疗我们都没有看见。
"More than 20 days ago he was basically stable, able to get out of bed and eat, and suddenly it got worse over the last two days. They drove us over and took his body to the funeral home.
”李文亮母亲悲郁。
"His mother was sad.
第一财经记者获悉，李文亮与妻子付雪洁有一五岁的儿子，且付雪洁正妊娠六个月。
The first financial reporter learned that Li Wenliang and his wife Fu Xuejie have a five-year-old son, and Fu Xuejie is pregnant for six months.
付雪洁在李文亮染病后返乡枣阳老家自我隔离，目前并未感染。
Fu Xuejie in Li Wenliang disease after returning to home Zaoyang self-isolation, not infected at present.
李文亮离世的第一天，国家监察委员会决定对李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查；武汉市人社局对李文亮医生认定工伤：获得一次性工亡补助金78.502万元和丧葬补助金3.6834万元。
On the first day of his death, the State Supervisory Committee decided to make a thorough investigation into the relevant issues of Dr. Li Wenliang, and the Wuhan Municipal People's Bureau decided that Dr. Lee had suffered an industrial injury: 78.502 million yuan in one-time disability compensation and 36.834 million yuan in funeral subsidies.
而在7日晚上9点，有武汉市民自发在李文亮医生离世，也是他曾吹响生命之哨的地方，用同样的方式祭奠了这位勇敢发出声音，签下训诫书，又继续冲上治疗一线的平凡英雄。
At 9: 00 pm on the 7th, the people of Wuhan city spontaneously in the death of Dr. Li Wenliang, he had blown the whistle of life, in the same way to pay tribute to the brave voice, signed the admonition, and continued to the treatment line on the ordinary hero.
【推荐阅读】李文亮之死：我们为什么要保护揭示真相的人。
Li Wenliang's Death: Why We Want to Protect Those Who Reveal the Truth.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李文亮和他的最后十天。
Li Wenliang and his last ten days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "李文亮和他的最后十天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Liang and his last ten days;;
var msg_desc = "新型冠状病毒何时在他身上安家已难以追溯，但在2020年2月7日2时58分将其吞噬的日子已被铭记下来。
var msg _ desc = & quot; it is difficult to trace when the new coronavirus was installed on him, but the date on which it was consumed was remembered at 0258 hours on 7 February 2020.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '高福回应论文质疑：大家没看明白，混淆了论文与临床诊断',。
Answer with a question: People did not understand, confused with clinical diagnosis and & apos; & quot;.
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '李文亮之死：我们为什么要保护揭示真相的人',。
Ri Wenliang's death: Why did we protect AT & apos; s service?
subject_name: '第一财经',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="第一财经";。
Var title = & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
