一个视频博主眼中的武汉。
Wuhan in the eyes of a video blogger.
新京报记者。
Journalist, Beijing News.
剥洋葱people                      。
peel onions.
剥洋葱people。
peel onions.
剥开人物外壳，记录真实可感的生命。
Peel off the character's shell and record the real and palpable life.
新京报深度报道部出品。
Beijing News in-depth coverage of the Department.
。
.
“在瘟疫面前，感谢你让我们看到了人性中的美好和善良”，“你让我们看到了一个真实的武汉。
"In the face of the plague, thank you to let us see the good and good in human nature", "you let us see a real Wuhan.
”评论中出现最多的字眼就是“真实”。
The word most frequently appearing in the commentary is "true."
武汉晚上七点，空旷的街道，时不时有120急救车疾驰而过。
Wuhan at 7 p.m., the open streets, from time to time 120 first-aid cars hurtling past.
文 |新京报记者 解蕾编辑｜胡杰校对| 李立军►本文约4347字，阅读全文约需8分钟蜘蛛猴面包，一个最近总是出现在网络热搜上的名字。
Rhetoric LiLijun: Some 4,347 words in this article, it takes about eight minutes to read the full text, a name that has always appeared on a recent Internet hot search.
这个名字来源于之前乐队朋友对他的称呼，或许是受《小王子》的影响，加上旅行中曾遇到的猴面包树，后来有一次改网名的时候，他脑子里突然就蹦出来蜘蛛猴面包这几个字。
The name came from a previous title given to him by a band friend, probably influenced by The Little Prince, and the baobab tree he had met on his travels. Then, when he changed his name, the word spider monkey bread popped into his head.
蜘蛛原本是个自由影视工作者，因为拍摄肺炎时期的武汉日记，短短十几天内，他的微博粉丝从1万多涨到了230多万。
Spider was originally a freelance film worker as his microblogging fan base grew from more than 10,000 to more than 2.3 million in just a few days after shooting the Wuhan diary during the pneumonia period.
纪实视频从《武汉封城日记》更名为《武汉日记2020》，如今已经更新到了第八集，成为许多人了解武汉当下境况的一个窗口。
The documentary video, renamed Wuhan Diary 2020 from Wuhan Seal Diary, has now been updated to Episode VIII and has become a window for many to understand Wuhan's current situation.
视频也同步上传到了youtube，受到不少海内外网友的关注。
Video has also been uploaded to YouTube, attracting attention from many netizens at home and abroad.
有澳洲、奥地利、加拿大、印尼侨胞的问候，有用韩语写下的支持，还有许多香港台湾朋友的祝福。
Greetings from Aussies, Austria, Canada, Indonesians, support written in Korean, and the blessing of many friends from Taiwan.
“在瘟疫面前，感谢你让我们看到了人性中的美好和善良”，“你让我们看到了一个真实的武汉。
"In the face of the plague, thank you to let us see the good and good in human nature", "you let us see a real Wuhan.
”评论中出现最多的字眼就是“真实”。
The word most frequently appearing in the commentary is "true."
在蜘蛛的镜头里，有拿着行李箱无法回家的人迷茫在街头，有戴着口罩坚持工作的环卫工，有骑着摩托依旧在路上奔波的外卖员，有奋斗在一线的医护人员，有免费给医护人员提供住宿的酒店志愿者，也有趁着天晴出来打太极的老爷爷。
In the spider's lens, people with suitcases unable to go home are confused in the streets, sanitation workers wearing masks, takeaway workers still on motorcycles, hospital workers struggling to stay on the ground, hotel volunteers who provide accommodation to health care workers, and grandfathers who take advantage of the fine weather to fight Tai Chi.
一位台湾网友留言说，疫情结束后最想做的事就是从台湾去武汉找蜘蛛猴面包先生，一起吃一顿饭，喝一杯茶，聊聊天，看看武汉美丽的风景。
One Taiwanese netizen left a message saying that the most wanted thing to do after the outbreak was to go from Taiwan to Wuhan to find Mr. spider monkey and bread, eat a meal, have a cup of tea, chat and see the beautiful scenery in Wuhan.
Play回到现场丨8瓶抗艾滋药的武汉行：全国HIV感染者募捐 志愿者挨家挨户送疫情里的温暖2月5日，农历正月十二，武汉关闭离汉通道的第十四天，火神山医院收治了第二批新型肺炎病人。
Wuhan, where HIV-infected volunteers send money from house to house to send HIV patients to Wuhan Feb. 5, the 14th day of the first month of the lunar calendar, when Wuhan closes the Han corridor, treating a second batch of new pneumonia patients.
街道上人烟稀少，时不时有120急救车疾驰而过，之后，又复归长久的宁静。
The streets were sparsely populated, with 120 ambulances galloping past, and then long quiet again.
十几天来，蜘蛛第一次在家给自己做了一顿像样的饭菜，腊肉泥蒿，和母亲做的味道一样。
For the first time in a decade, spiders cooked themselves a decent meal at home. Artemisia argyi tasted just like her mother.
自从1月23日拍摄武汉日记开始，蜘蛛每天早出晚归，回到家剪片子经常剪到天亮，一天只吃一两顿饭。
Spiders come home early and come back late every day. They often go home to cut films until dawn, and eat only one or two meals a day.
蜘蛛从小在武汉出生长大，今年是他在这座城市生活的第三十七年。
The spider was born and raised in Wuhan, and this year is his thirty-seventh year of life in the city.
十几年来，他已经习惯了自己一个人住。
He has been used to living alone for more than ten years.
去年,母亲去了澳大利亚和姐姐住在一起。
Last year, my mother went to live with her sister in Australia.
今年春节，在海南的女友原本打算来武汉和蜘蛛一起生活，但突如其来的疫情和城市管控彻底打乱了这个计划。
This Spring Festival, Hainan girlfriend was planning to come to Wuhan to live with spiders, but sudden outbreaks of disease and city control completely upset the plan.
大年二十九凌晨两点，蜘蛛还没有睡，他几乎是第一时间知道了“封城”的通告。
At about 2 a. m., while the spider was still awake, he was almost immediately informed of the "Seal of the City."
“其实之前多少有点预感，消息出来的那一刻就觉得，事情果然还是发生了。
"In fact, there was a little foreboding, the moment the news came out that things had happened.
”蜘蛛并没有马上就决定去拍摄。
"The spider did not immediately decide to shoot.
“我其实心里也很慌，害怕这个时候出门会不会有风险，会不会感染这个病毒。
"I am actually very nervous, afraid of this time out will not be a risk, will not be infected with the virus.
”经过了一番犹豫挣扎，加上已经好几天没有出门。
"After some hesitation, and for several days he had not gone out.
第二天早上，蜘蛛决定出门采购物资和生活用品，顺便用手边的gopro（运动摄像机）去记录这个城市。
The next morning, spiders decided to go out and shop for supplies and groceries and use the gopro (motion camera) on hand to record the city.
蜘蛛说，第一天的拍摄非常小心，基本都是在车里对着外面拍，有时候甚至连窗户都没打开。
The spider said the first day of shooting was very careful, basically shooting out of the car, sometimes even the window did not open.
就是这短短两分钟的视频，发布到网上后，迅速吸引了成千上万网友的目光。
This is a short two-minute video, released to the Internet, quickly attracted the eyes of thousands of netizens.
它第一时间记录下武汉封城后的景象，小雨时阴郁的天空，冷冷清清的街头，关门停业的商城，还有口罩下看不到表情的面孔。
It first recorded the scene behind the closure of Wuhan, the gloomy sky during the light rain, the deserted streets, the closed shopping mall, and the impassive face under the mask.
武汉晚上七点，空旷的街道，时不时有120急救车疾驰而过，之后又复归长久的宁静。
Wuhan at 7 p.m., the open streets, from time to time 120 first-aid cars speeding past, and then return to the long quiet.
随着出去的次数越来越多，接触到外面不同的人，蜘蛛心中的恐惧也逐渐被克服。
As they went out more and more often and came into contact with different people outside, the fear in the spider's heart was gradually overcome.
他决定，用自己的双眼去记录并见证这座被疫情围困的城市。
He decided to use his own eyes to record and witness the siege of the city.
让外界以及武汉市内的人，来了解武汉真实的一面，消除恐慌，这是他拍摄的初衷。
Let the outside world and Wuhan people, to understand the real side of Wuhan, to eliminate panic, this is his original intention.
在十几天的拍摄中，有一幕是令蜘蛛最难忘怀的。
In ten days of shooting, one scene is the spider most difficult to forget.
当时他正停下车拍摄封闭的长江隧道，就看到从远处走来了两位老人，老奶奶满头白发，戴着口罩，坐在轮椅上，腿上放着一大袋生活用品。
As he stopped to photograph the closed Yangtze tunnel, he saw two elderly men in the distance, white-haired, wearing a mask, sitting in a wheelchair and carrying a large bag of household goods on her lap.
老爷爷戴着一个棒球帽，额头有些冒汗，穿着一件棕色的针织上衫，脱掉的外套攥在推着轮椅的手里，扶手下面还绑着两个便携旅行包。
He was wearing a baseball cap, sweaty forehead, a brown knitted sweater, a stripped jacket in his wheelchair-pushing hand, and two portable valise bags under the arms.
宽阔的马路上没什么车，蜘蛛一眼就看到了这个推着车的身影。
There was no car on the wide road, and the spider saw the figure pushing it at a glance.
他了解到，两位老人七十多岁，是从医院里出来的。
He learned that the two old men, in their seventies, had come out of the hospital.
奶奶患有糖尿病，大年二十八就住进了医院，每天从超市买吃的，生活上很不方便，早就想回家了，但是一直没有联系到帮助的车，子女在汉口，车也被禁行。
Grandma has diabetes, about 28 years old live in the hospital, every day from the supermarket to buy food, life is very inconvenient, long wanted to go home, but has never been able to contact the help of the car, the children in Hankou, the car was banned.
今天他们坚持要出院，十来公里的路程，老爷爷决定用三个小时把奶奶推回家。
Today, they insisted on being discharged. Ten kilometers away, Grandpa decided to take three hours to push Grandma home.
武汉街头，一位老人原本打算用三小时把家人用轮椅推回家。
In Wuhan, an old man intended to wheel his family home in a wheelchair for three hours.
蜘蛛遇见他们的时候，老人已经走了一个多小时，大概三分之一的路程，“快了，马上就到了，”爷爷喘着气说。
When the spider met them, the old man had been walking for more than an hour, about a third of the way, "Soon, soon," panted Grandpa.
后来蜘蛛把两位老人送回了家，临走前老人戴着口罩挥手向他告别。
Spiders later sent the two old men home, and the old man waved goodbye to him wearing a mask before he left.
“这是我拍摄封城以来遇到的最动人的一幕。
"This is the most moving scene I've seen since I filmed the city.
”蜘蛛的声音变得很温柔。
"The spider's voice became soft.
让蜘蛛感动的，还有一个叫钟丽的车队志愿者，是个年轻妈妈。
Also moving to the spider was a motorcade volunteer named Zhong Li, a young mother.
家里有三个小孩，老大13岁，老三只有4岁。
There are three children in the family, the eldest is 13 and the third is only 4.
她每天早上安顿好三个小孩之后，大概十一点从家出发，去志愿者团队里做物资运送服务，直到晚上八九点才能回家吃上饭。
After settling her three children in the morning, she left home at about eleven o'clock and worked in a volunteer team to deliver supplies until eight or nine at night.
“希望武汉能够早日恢复正常状态，现在我们能尽点力就多帮助一下。
"I hope Wuhan can return to normal as soon as possible, now we can do our best to help more.
现在这些物资都很难搞到的，我们就出点油钱，都不算什么。
It's hard to get all this stuff right now, so we'll pay for it. It's nothing.
”钟丽笑着说。
"said Zhong Li, smiling.
为了孩子，她把自己保护得也很好。
She also protected herself well for the sake of her children.
蜘蛛跟拍了她一下午，到晚上的时候，钟丽就给小孩子打电话，告诉老大说，用她出门前洗好的菜，做点面条给弟弟妹妹吃。
Spiders filmed her all afternoon, and in the evening, Zhong Li called the baby and told him to use the dishes she had washed before going out and make noodles for her younger brother and sister.
她在电话里，一点点指导着老大怎么下面。
She's on the phone, little by little instructing the boss how to get down.
志愿者钟丽给孩子打电话，指导老大做面条给弟弟妹妹。
Volunteers Zhong Li calls the child, instructs the eldest son to make noodles to younger brother and sister.
后来在视频聊天的时候，蜘蛛看到，孩子们自己在家玩得很开心，面条也都吃光了。
Later, while chatting on video, spiders saw that the children were having fun at home and eating all the noodles.
钟丽看着手机屏幕，笑出了眼泪。
Zhong Li looked at the mobile phone screen and smiled in tears.
她说，她会一直做志愿者，直到武汉再也没有人戴口罩为止。
She said she would remain a volunteer until no one in Wuhan wore a mask again.
“那一瞬间我就觉得特别感人，很平淡，却很戳心。
"That moment I feel particularly touching, very flat, but very poking.
”蜘蛛说。
"said the spider.
从记录者到志愿者作为一个影视工作者，蜘蛛的主要任务是客观的拍摄和记录。
From recorder to volunteer as a film and television worker, spider's main task is to shoot and record objectively.
但随着看到的人和事越来越多，在这样一个所有人都在互帮互助的大环境之下，蜘蛛也深受感染，希望力所能及地去做点什么。
But as more and more people and things began to appear, spiders became infected in an environment where everyone was helping each other and wanted to do what they could.
“现在这个城封了，相当于整个城的人就是一个命运共同体，所有人都要一起去对抗疫情。
"Now that the city is sealed, the equivalent of the whole city is a community of destiny, all people to fight the epidemic together.
”Play回到现场丨武汉“医生驿站”的困境：消毒水等物资短缺 民间物资车辆进城受阻。
Play returns to the plight of the site into the "doctor's post office": supplies such as disinfectant are short of supplies and vehicles blocked from entering the city.
他加入了开车接送医护人员上下班的志愿者群。
He joined a group of volunteers driving paramedics to and from work.
大年三十，他早上七点多起床，戴着一次性医用口罩， 接到了一个五官科的大夫，大夫拎着一个塑料袋上了车，说全部医护人员的春节假期都取消了，“我们都是带着泡面去吃年夜饭的。
In his late thirties, he got up at seven in the morning, wearing a disposable medical mask, received a doctor of five senses, carrying a plastic bag onto the car, said that all the medical staff's Spring Festival holidays have been cancelled, "we are taking noodles to eat Chinese New Year's Eve dinner.
”医护人员告诉他，他们也感受到很多的温暖。
"The paramedics told him they felt a lot of warmth, too.
一个同事说她需要N95口罩，邻居就把自己仅有的几个送给了她。
A colleague said she needed a N95 mask, and neighbors gave her the few she had.
还有同事说她需要护目镜，第二天就有人把泳镜挂到了门上。
A colleague said she needed goggles and someone hung them on the door the next day.
一位医护人员在下车的时候送给蜘蛛一个N95口罩，“我们科室用的都是医用外科口罩，你这么辛苦，还是要用这个。
A paramedic gave spiders a N95 mask as they got out of the car. "We all use surgical masks in our department.
”一位医护人员在下车的时候送给蜘蛛一个N95口罩。
A paramedic gave the spider an N95 mask as he got out of the car.
每个医护人员下车之后，蜘蛛都会用酒精喷在座位上消毒，然后用纸擦拭。
After each paramedic gets out of the car, spiders spray alcohol on their seats to disinfect them and then wipe them with paper.
网友们特地在评论里告诉他，要等酒精挥发才更有效，还让蜘蛛戴上手套，把口罩上边的铁丝按紧、压住鼻梁。
Netizens specifically told him to wait for the alcohol to evaporate more effectively, and let the spider wear gloves, put the wire on the mask tightly, pressed against the nose beam.
蜘蛛说，还有很多人说要送口罩给自己。
Many others said they would give themselves masks, the spider said.
他收到了Chinese Footblall 乐队主唱送的口罩，在第三集片尾，他插入了Chinese Footblall 乐队为武汉创作的歌曲，“人们啊满怀希望，黑暗另一端的模样，会有生活的远方。
He received a mask from the lead singer of the Chinese Football band and, at the end of the third episode, he inserted a song written for Wuhan by the Chinese Footblall band, "People are hopeful that on the other side of the spectrum there will be life far away.
”蜘蛛还参与了为患者送药的行动。
Spiders are also involved in delivering medicines to patients.
那一批药物是在卫健委第四批与第五批治疗方案里提到的克力芝，原本是一种治疗艾滋病的抗病毒药物。
That batch of drugs was referred to in the fourth and fifth batches of the Weijian Health Commission, originally an antiviral drug for AIDS.
一个网名叫HIV松鼠哥的人，一直在义务做艾滋病药物的收集与分发工作。
A man named HIV Squirrel has been collecting and distributing AIDS drugs on a voluntary basis.
松鼠哥看到蜘蛛的视频之后，出于信任，通过朋友联系到他帮忙为患者送药。
Brother Squirrel saw the spider video, out of trust, through friends contact him to help deliver medicine for the patient.
这是蜘蛛第一次与患者或患者家属接触，在当下特殊时期，这是一件比较困难的事情。
This is the first time a spider has been in contact with a patient or a patient's family.
蜘蛛会打电话约好时间，把药放到一个指定地点，然后看着患者拿到药后再离开。
Spiders call to set the time, put the medicine in a designated place, and then watch the patient get the medicine before leaving.
蜘蛛开车为患者分发药物。
Spiders drive to distribute medicines to patients.
在送药的过程中，他看到病人并没有像说的那样达到一个失控的状态，相反，大家都很坚强，都在积极地去想办法面对疾病。
During the delivery, he saw that the patient was not out of control, as he had said. Instead, everyone was strong and active in finding ways to deal with the disease.
其中有一个女孩，蜘蛛印象很深，接到电话说有药的时候，她几乎快要哭了出来。
One of them, a very impressive spider, received a phone call to say there was medicine, she almost cried out.
后来蜘蛛去一家医院拍摄的时候，又遇到了她，这已经不是她第一次来医院求助了。
When the spider went to a hospital to shoot, she met her again. It was not her first time to go to the hospital for help.
她拼尽全力求医护人员能救救自己的爸爸。
She tried her best to get the paramedics to save her father.
女孩告诉蜘蛛，她已经哭得没有眼泪了。
The girl told the spider that she had cried herself out of tears.
在镜头后面，蜘蛛竭力忍住泪水。
Behind the camera, the spider tried to hold back her tears.
“只有真正经历了这些事的人和家庭，才懂得这种无助和痛苦。
"It is only the people and families who have really experienced these things that understand the helplessness and the pain.
”“我们都知道在镜头以外还有许多经历艰难的人和令人遗憾的事，但我们还是要保有希望。
"We all know there are a lot of tough people and things to regret outside the camera, but let's keep hope alive.
”蜘蛛说。
"said the spider.
蜘蛛镜头下的人们。
People under a spider lens.
剪辑的时候我常常会流泪从武汉日记上线开始，蜘蛛的生活就发生了天翻地覆的变化。
Editing time I often cry from the Wuhan diary on the line, spider life has undergone tremendous changes.
疫情发生前，他比较随性，自己做菜、手冲咖啡、逗逗猫、遛遛狗、剪剪片子。
Before the outbreak, he was more casual, making his own dishes, making coffee, teasing cats, walking dogs and cutting films.
但1月23日之后，他整个人就像是上了发条，当其他人都在家里闲得发慌时，蜘蛛却忙得废寝忘食。
After January 23, however, he wound up as if he were clockwork, and spiders were too busy eating and sleeping while everyone else was at home.
开始的几天，蜘蛛每天早上七八点就出去拍摄，出门前随便塞一点东西，或者做个简单的手抓饼，夹个培根，都是家里的一些速食。
For the first few days, spiders go out seven or eight in the morning to shoot, shovel a little stuff in front of the door, or make a simple hand grab a bacon, all of which are quick meals for the family.
中途饿了就吃点干粮，外面的饭店基本上也都关门了。
When I was hungry, I ate some dry food, and the restaurants outside were almost closed.
一天拍摄完，晚上九十点钟回来，有时候早一点就下午四五点。
One day after filming, back at 9: 00 pm, sometimes a little earlier on the four or five.
衣服、帽子和口罩都脱下来放在一个房间里，用紫外灯照射消毒，拍摄设备就放在车里，不带回家。
Clothes, hats and masks are taken off in a room, disinfected with ultraviolet light, and the equipment is kept in the car without taking it home.
每天晚上回到家，猫和狗就轮流跑到蜘蛛边上来，欢迎辛苦拍摄一天的主人回来。
Every night when they got home, the cat and the dog took turns running to the spider's side, welcoming the owner of the hard day's filming.
狗会趴在他腿上，猫就蹲在电脑边上，好奇地看着屏幕里的影像。
The dog would lie on his lap and the cat would squat by the computer, looking curiously at the image on the screen.
头几天特别累。
The first few days were particularly tiring.
因为想及时地把视频发送出去，蜘蛛一般都会连轴转，剪片子一直剪到凌晨四五点。
Because want to send out video in time, spiders will generally link axis, cutting film until four or five in the morning.
再睡两三个小时，然后第二天接着出去拍摄。
Sleep for another two or three hours, then go out the next day to shoot.
有天凌晨四点回到家，他发现家里的锅已经两天没有洗了，按照以前，碗筷是从来不会过夜的，“看来我需要重新拥抱生活了。
One day when he got home at 4 a.m., he found that the kitchen sink had not been washed for two days. Chopsticks had never stayed overnight.
”蜘蛛在微博上这样写道。
"spiders wrote on microblogs.
“我朋友说我到了一个亢奋的状态，也不觉得累和饿。
"My friend said I was in a hyperactive state and I didn't feel tired or hungry.
但一停下来，就会觉得特别疲惫。
But when I stop, I feel very tired.
”武汉每晚在长江两岸点亮灯光。
Wuhan lights up the banks of the Yangtze River every night.
无论是海南的女友，还是远在澳大利亚的妈妈和姐姐都很担心蜘蛛，但家人知道，蜘蛛想做的事，他就一定会去做。
His girlfriend in Hainan and his mother and sister in Australia were worried about spiders, but his family knew he would do what spiders wanted to do.
“以前我也做过很多他们看起来危险的事，一个人去非洲、印度这些啊。
"I've done a lot of things they look dangerous before, going to Africa, India, all by myself.
虽然谈不上支持，但他们都能理解。
They can understand, if not support.
就是叮嘱我要小心。
Just tell me to be careful.
”2017年，蜘蛛进入了影视这行。
In 2017, spiders entered the film industry.
他长期一个人独立拍摄和剪辑，已经形成了自己的一套流程。
He has been shooting and editing on his own for a long time and has developed his own set of processes.
在拍摄武汉日记之前，蜘蛛一直在做旅行的短片。
Spiders had been making short films of their travels before shooting the Wuhan Diary.
《迷失马达加斯加》、《印度摩托骑行记》、《尼泊尔游记》都是他一个人在路上完成的作品。
"Lost in Madagascar," "Indian Motorcycle Tales," "Nepal Travels" are all completed on his own on the road.
旅行中的蜘蛛，肤色黝黑，留着小胡子，穿着当地的衣服，和路上遇见的朋友开心地玩着笑着，乐观、积极，富有生命力。
Traveling spiders, dark-skinned, bearded, dressed in local clothes, and friends they met on the road were laughing happily, optimistic, positive, and full of life.
和以往拍摄旅行日记不同，蜘蛛说这次是在用自己的视角观察人和社会，也冷静克制了许多，但都融入了他对于这个世界的情感在里面。
Unlike previous travel diaries, the spider said it was looking at people and society from its own perspective, and that it had sobered down a lot, but that it was part of his feelings for the world.
蜘蛛从来没想过自己会火。
Spiders never thought they would get angry.
发第二个片子的那天，粉丝一下涨到了六万多，吓了一跳。
On the day of the second film, fans jumped to more than 60,000, startled.
还跟好多朋友说，这粉丝涨得也太快了。
I told a lot of my friends that the fans were rising too fast.
那时候的他不会想到，十天之后，他的粉丝会涨到两百多万。
At that time, he did not think that in 10 days, his fans will rise to more than 2 million.
他偶尔会在朋友圈里开粉丝暴涨的玩笑，但他知道这都是暂时的，等一切过去以后，还会回到原来的样子。
Occasionally he would make fun of fans in a circle of friends, but he knew it would be temporary and would come back to where it was when it was all over.
其实，蜘蛛一开始并没有想到要去拍很久，但后来片子引起了这么多人的关注，大家都想透过他的镜头看看现在的武汉，还有人从这些视频中感受到了温暖和鼓励。
In fact, the spider did not expect to shoot for a long time, but the film has attracted so many people's attention, everyone wants to see the present Wuhan through his lens, and some people feel warmth and encouragement from these videos.
这些都成为他想要继续拍下去的责任和动力。
These became his responsibility and motivation to continue filming.
“在这个世界里面，所有的人性都被放大了，善和恶都被放大。
"In this world, all humanity is magnified, good and evil magnified.
”蜘蛛看到了太多在街上茫然无助的人，太多不幸的家庭和悲伤的眼泪。
The spider sees too many helpless people in the street, too many unhappy families and tears of sorrow.
他不清楚他们正在遭遇着什么，也无法想象他们的处境。
He did not know what was happening to them, nor could he imagine their situation.
“总是有很多人说武汉人脾气暴，我不否认这点。
"There are always a lot of people saying that Wuhan people have a violent temper, I do not deny that.
”虽然是土生土长的武汉人，但蜘蛛以前对这个城市并没有太多的地域自豪感。
Though native to Wuhan, spiders used to feel little regional pride in the city.
他喜欢旅行，去过很多地方，甚至有好几次都搬去其他地方生活。
He loved to travel, visited many places and even moved to other places on several occasions.
但这次，他看到了武汉人的另一面——坚强、可爱、热心又团结，“我在视频里很克制，但在剪辑的时候，其实常常会流泪。
But this time, he saw the other side of the Wuhan people - strong, lovely, warm and united, "I am very restrained in the video, but in editing, often tears.
”“我好像重新认识了这个城市，我觉得，我现在更爱武汉了。
"I seem to have re-acquainted myself with the city, and I feel that I love Wuhan more now.
”蜘蛛说自己好像重新认识了这个城市，现在更爱武汉了。
"The spider said it seemed it had reacquainted itself with the city and loved Wuhan more.
和所有人一样，蜘蛛现在最大的希望也是疫情能够早日结束。
Spiders, like everyone else, now hope for an early end to the epidemic.
他一直在等着结束的那天，女友说，她一定会第一时间过来找他，未来的日子，陪他在武汉一起生活。
He has been waiting for the end of the day, girlfriend said that she will be the first time to find him, the future of life with him in Wuhan.
洋葱话题▼你对此次的疫情有什么记录？后台回复关键词“洋葱君”，加入读者群推荐阅读危险无人察觉：“世界梦号”豪华邮轮疫情始末武汉居委会主任：居民恨不得把你当救命稻草疫情下的武汉救护车司机：与死神赛跑既然在看，就点一下吧。
Why don't you tell us about it = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个视频博主眼中的武汉。
Wuhan in the eyes of a video blogger.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "剥洋葱people";。
Var nickname = & quot; peeled with onions;;
var msg_title = "一个视频博主眼中的武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; in the eyes of a video blogger.
var msg_desc = "“在这个世界里面，所有的人性都被放大了，善和恶都被放大。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "A world in which all humanity is magnified, good and evil magnified.
”";。
";;
title: '危险无人察觉：“世界梦号”豪华邮轮疫情始末',。
AT RISK RISK RISK: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '武汉居委会主任：居民恨不得把你当救命稻草',。
Director of Wuhan Roundtable: Residents would like to see you as a lifeline.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '疫情下的武汉救护车司机：与死神赛跑',。
Wuhan ambulance driver: Running and killing at its service.
subject_name: '剥洋葱people',。
subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="剥洋葱people";。
var title = & quot; peeled with onion;;
