香港全力抗疫：即日实施检疫新政，抗疫体系轮廓清晰。
Hong Kong's full fight against the disease: the New Deal for Quarantine was implemented today.
焦建。
Jiao Jian.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_早识别、早确诊、早隔离，是避免出现社区爆发的要点。
Early identification, early diagnosis and early isolation are the key points to avoid community eruption.
“要有效减低社区传播，须加大力度减少社会接触，呼吁市民取消社交活动和避免去人多场所等。
"To effectively reduce community transmission, we need to step up our efforts to reduce social contact, appeal to the public to cancel social activities and avoid visiting crowded places," he said.
”林郑月娥称_文 |《财经》特派香港记者 焦建编辑 | 苏琦一架原定于2月7日晚11点30分左右由北京抵达香港的航班，因故延迟到2月8日凌晨1点左右才到达。
Mrs Lam says that Caijing's Hong Kong correspondent, Jiao Jian, a Hong Kong journalist who was due to arrive in Hong Kong from Beijing at about 11.30 p.m. on February 7, was delayed until about 1 a.m. on February 8.
按照中国香港特区政府于2月5日时公布的新检疫规例：从2月8日零时开始，由内地入境香港特区者，包括香港、内地居民和其他旅客，均要强制接受检疫14日。
According to the new quarantine regulations promulgated by the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on February 5, persons entering the HKSAR from the Mainland, including Hong Kong residents, Mainland residents and other visitors, will be subject to compulsory quarantine for 14 days starting from 0000 hours on February 8.
该政策出台背后，是“香港或已出现社区传播，（新型冠状病毒）疫情进入另一严峻阶段。
Behind the policy is "Hong Kong or the emergence of community transmission, [new coronavirus] epidemic into another serious phase.
”中国香港特区政府行政长官林郑月娥在2月5日举办记者会时称：因近日新增的个案病人在潜伏期内都无出游记录，亦未能找到明显病源，属于本地感染个案。
Speaking at a press conference on 5 February, the Chief Executive of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Mrs Carrie Lam, said that the recent increase in the number of patients who had no travel history during the incubation period and were unable to find a significant source of infection was a local infection.
前述航班上的乘客，应算是该政策实施后的首批要接受检疫者。
Passengers on the aforementioned flights should be the first to be quarantined after the implementation of the policy.
按照相关日落条款，该规例将于今年5月7日午夜起失效。
The Regulation will expire at midnight on 7 May this year in accordance with the relevant sunset provisions.
随着全国范围内新型冠状病毒疫情仍在持续发展，加之当地确诊案例的不断增多，中国香港特区政府的各项防疫措施亦在不断升级。
With the continued development of the new coronavirus epidemic throughout the country and the increasing number of locally confirmed cases, the preventive measures taken by the Hong Kong SAR Government have been continuously upgraded.
其主旨亦从不断压缩香港与内地跨境人流，逐渐深化到加强及完善自身医疗体系准备等方面。
The main thrust has also been to gradually deepen the cross-boundary flow of people from Hong Kong and the Mainland to enhance and improve the preparation of their own healthcare systems.
但受制于“邻避效应”导致的检疫中心设施等相对不足等因素，香港整体抗疫压力仍不轻松。
However, Hong Kong's overall anti-epidemic pressure is still not easy due to factors such as the relative shortage of quarantine center facilities caused by the "neighbourhood effect."
检疫减少传染隐患截止2月8日中午12时，新型冠状病毒在中国香港特区的总确诊感染人数增加至26例，其中1例死亡。
Quarantine to reduce the risk of infection As of 12 noon on February 8, the total number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in the Hong Kong SAR of China had increased to 26, including one death.
2月7日时，香港再增两名确诊案例：一名58岁在珠海及澳门工作的男子，在珠海发病回港后曾先后乘的士往私家诊所及北区医院求诊；另外，香港威尔斯亲王医院一名42岁男子在深夜亦确诊感染。
On February 7, there were two more confirmed cases in Hong Kong: a 58-year-old man working in Zhuhai and Macao had taken a taxi to private clinics and the North District Hospital after returning to Hong Kong. A 42-year-old man from the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong was confirmed to have contracted the infection late at night.
据香港卫生防护中心此前分析称：截止到2月5日香港的确诊病例当中，11例为输入个案、2例与输入个案有密切接触的个案、3例可能本地感染个案、5例本地感染个案。
According to CHP's previous analysis, as at February 5, 11 of the confirmed cases in Hong Kong were imported cases, 2 cases of close contact with imported cases, 3 cases of possible local infection and 5 cases of local infection.
早识别、早确诊、早隔离，是避免出现社区爆发的要点。
Early identification, early diagnosis and early isolation are the key points to avoid community outbursts.
“要有效减低社区传播，须加大力度减少社会接触，呼吁市民取消社交活动和避免去人多场所等。
"To effectively reduce community transmission, we need to step up our efforts to reduce social contact, appeal to the public to cancel social activities and avoid visiting crowded places," he said.
”林郑月娥称。
"said Mrs Lam.
未来一两周内是否会在商场、住宅区等人流密集的公共区域内出现规模性爆发，也被普遍认为是中国香港特区当前疫情防控的核心要点之一。
Whether large-scale outbreaks will occur in crowded public areas such as shopping malls and residential areas in the next week or two is also widely regarded as one of the core points of the current epidemic prevention and control in Hong Kong SAR of China.
“目前各界关注的焦点已不在于香港是否已出现社区传播，而在于未来传播的规模会有多大。
"The focus is no longer on whether there is community transmission in Hong Kong, but on how big it will be in the future.
”香港一所大学的医学研究人士对《财经》记者指出：社区隐形病人病征轻微甚至已康复，难找到社区源头。
Medical researchers at a Hong Kong university told Caijing: "Invisible patients in the community have mild symptoms or even recovered, and it is difficult to find a source in the community.
因目前认定的新型冠状病毒潜伏期最长为十四天，前述“检疫十四天”政策如何切实落地以使得疫病防控效果最大化，则是目前各方关注的焦点问题。
Due to the fact that the incubation period of the new coronavirus is up to 14 days, how the above-mentioned policy of "quarantinable 14 days" actually falls to the ground in order to maximize the effect of the disease prevention and control, is now the focus of attention.
中国香港特区政府食物及卫生局长陈肇始2月7日时指出：接受检疫的香港居民可于家中接受检疫，其间禁止离港，家人则不需隔离；非香港居民如已安排入住酒店或其他住所，将于该处接受检疫；若无法安排住所，则会在政府安排的设施检疫。
On February 7, the Secretary for Food and Health of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Mr Chan Siu-kwong, said: Quarantined Hong Kong residents may be quarantined at their homes, but not their families. Non-Hong Kong residents who have arranged to stay in hotels or other accommodation will be quarantined at Government-arranged facilities.
而中国香港特区政府会向入境者派发“信息包”，提供个人及环境卫生等资讯。
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region will provide information on personal and environmental hygiene to visitors.
食物及卫生局副秘书长（食物）郑钟伟则称：如入境者入境签注不足14日，将被拒绝入境；受检疫者每日都要探测提问及戴口罩，不能邀请友人或亲戚到家聚会，政府期间会安排抽样突击检查，亦会通过电话联络，有关人士毋须戴上电子手环监察行踪，抵港后可自行乘车前往住所。
The Deputy Secretary for Food and Health (Food), Mr Cheng Chung-wai, said that persons entering Hong Kong with less than 14 days' visa would be refused entry. Quarantine visitors would be asked questions and wearing masks every day, friends or relatives would not be invited to meet at home.
为确保检疫效果，上述新政规定接受家居检疫者须于两小时内抵达指定地点，警察会以抽查形式，通过电话、WhatsApp联络或上门，若找不到受检疫者会通知卫生署，两次警告无效后，第三次再犯时，卫生署会发隔离令。
To ensure quarantine effect, HQs are required to arrive at the designated place within 2 hours. The Police will contact the designated place by telephone, WhatsApp or on a random basis. If the quarantined person cannot be found, the Department of Health will issue an isolation order if the two warnings are not valid.
《财经》此前报道的消息亦显示：目前在14天内曾到过湖北省的香港居民，必须在家进行隔离，并要戴上电子追踪手环。
According to Caijing's previous report, Hong Kong residents who have been to Hubei province in the past 14 days must be quarantined at home and wear electronic tracking bracelets.
违规者最高可被监禁6个月及罚款5000元。
Offenders are liable to imprisonment for up to six months and a fine of $5,000.
目前有超过60人正在接受此项隔离检疫。
More than 60 people are being quarantined.
与需要戴上手环接受检疫的方式相比，2月8日起开始的居家检疫仍相对宽松。
Household quarantine, which began on February 8, remains relatively loose compared with the practice of wearing bracelets for quarantine.
而香港特区政府政务司长张建宗则呼吁受检疫者：“本着社会意识、公民责任，充分合作、自律”。
The Chief Administrative Officer of the HKSAR Government, Mr Matthew Cheung Kin-chung, called on quarantined persons to "act with social awareness, civic responsibility, full cooperation and self-discipline."
据此前曾因患上传染性疾病在家接受类似检疫的一位香港居民对《财经》记者称：其在私家诊所确诊得上水痘后即被开出检疫通知，随后便在家进行自我隔离，期间接过相关检查电话，“整个过程相对宽松，但确实要靠个人自觉。
A Hong Kong resident who had previously been quarantined at home with a contagious disease told Caijing that he was notified of the quarantine immediately after he was diagnosed with chicken pox in a private clinic and then isolated himself at home.
”按照香港特区政府于2月7日时召开特别会议引用香港《预防及控制疾病条例》修订附属法例订立的《若干到港人士强制检疫规例》附属法则：违者将最高可罚款2.5万元（港币，下同）、监禁6个月。
According to the Subsidiary Rules of the Mandatory Quarantine Regulations for Certain Arrivals made by the HKSAR Government at a special meeting on 7 February citing the amendments to the Prevention and Control of Disease Ordinance, the maximum penalty is a fine of HK $25,000 (the same as below) and imprisonment for six months.
抗疫体系轮廓渐显随着上述一系列减少通关人数、增强检疫的体系不断建立及完善，针对此次新型冠状病毒传播，中国香港特区的一系列抗疫体系的大致轮廓亦在变得清晰起来：按照2020年1月公布的《香港特别行政区政府对公共卫生有重要性的新型传染病预备及应变计划》显示：为确保香港特区政府具备各项核心能力，以迅速、高效率协调的方式，去预防、侦测、控制和应对新型传染病威胁，从而减低死亡或发病。
With the establishment and improvement of the above-mentioned system to reduce customs clearance and strengthen quarantine, the broad outlines of Hong Kong SAR's new coronavirus preparedness and response plan are becoming clearer: to ensure that the HKSAR Government has the core capabilities to prevent, detect, control and respond to emerging infectious disease threats in an efficient and effective manner to reduce the risk of death or disease.
该计划包含三个应变级别，即戒备、严重及紧急。
There are three levels of response: alert, severe and emergency.
目前香港针对新型冠状病毒的应变级别为紧急。
Hong Kong's response level for the new coronavirus is emergency.
据《财经》记者多方了解，目前香港特区的疾控防疫体系所涉及的人群，或可分为以下几类：普通市民，易感染人群，感染者，疑似病例，与感染者曾密切接触但未出现感染症状者。
According to Caijing, the current CDC epidemic prevention system in the Hong Kong SAR covers the following categories: the general public, vulnerable groups, infected persons, suspected cases, and people who have been in close contact with infected persons but do not have symptoms of infection.
对于易感染人群，中国香港特区政府卫生署卫生防护中心“严重新型传染性病原体呼吸系统病”的相关资料显示：从今年1月2日起，该中心已经分别向幼稚园/幼儿中心、学校、安老院舍、残疾人士院舍及医院发出了相关提醒信件。
For vulnerable groups, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health of the Hong Kong SAR Government has issued reminders to kindergartens / child care centres, schools, residential homes for the elderly, homes for the disabled and hospitals since 2 January this year.
在1月2日向幼稚园/幼儿中心、学校发出的一封名为“呼吁就内地武汉市肺炎病例群组个案提高警觉”的信件当中，该中心称：“卫生署卫生防护中心正密切监察湖北省武汉市的肺炎病例群组个案，现特函通知阁下提高警觉。
"The Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health is closely monitoring the pneumonia cluster case in Wuhan, Hubei Province," the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health (DH), in a letter to kindergarten / child care centres and schools on January 2.
根据现有资料，2019年12月武汉市共发现27宗肺炎个案与当地一海鲜市场“华南海鲜城”有关(截至 12 月 31 日)。
According to the available data, 27 cases of pneumonia were found in December 2019 in Wuhan city in connection with the local seafood market, "Hai Xian City in South China" (as of December 31).
其中七宗个案病情严重，其余则属稳定。
Seven of the cases were serious and the rest were stable.
个案的病征主要为发烧，少数病人出现呼吸困难。
The symptoms were mainly fever and respiratory distress in a small number of patients.
所有病人均已接受隔离治疗。
All patients have received isolation treatment.
武汉市卫生当局正在追踪调查密切接触者和进行医学观察。
Wuhan city health authorities are following up with close contacts and conducting medical observation.
武汉市相关专家分析认为上述病例属病毒性肺炎。
Wuhan city relevant experts analysis that the above cases belong to viral pneumonia.
目前对病原的检测及感染原因的调查仍在进行中。
At present the detection of pathogen and the cause of infection are still under investigation.
贵学校/院舍/机构的学童或工作人员，如出现发烧或呼吸道感染病征，应佩戴口罩及立即求医，并向医生报告其外游纪录和接触史。
Students or staff of your school / institution who develop fever or respiratory symptoms should wear a mask and seek medical treatment immediately. They should report their travel history and contact history to a doctor.
出现病征的学童或工作人员不应回校上课或工作。
Students or staff with symptoms should not return to school or work.
”随信除附上相关指引外，亦涵盖了相关的预防建议。
Apart from the relevant guidelines, relevant preventive advice is also included.
自1月2日至2月8日，向前述不同对象发出的中英文类似信件计有30封左右。
From January 2 to February 8, about 30 similar letters in Chinese and English were sent to the above-mentioned subjects.
内容涵盖最新的各类进展、应该实施的措施，以及提高应变级别等内容。
It covers the latest developments, measures to be taken and measures to be taken to improve the response level.
按照目前香港的医疗安排：各个联网医院均有负气压隔离病房、受过相关培训的医护人员，并有化验室支援，都可处理确诊个案。
According to the current medical arrangements in Hong Kong, all networked hospitals have negative pressure isolation wards, trained medical staff and laboratory support to handle confirmed cases.
在加强监测计划下，需化验的病人都会先收入负压病房隔离，但随着个案增加可能会转而先收入监察病房，病房内床与床间会有1米距离、最少每小时6次换气，并加装空气过滤仪器，员工亦会穿上全套保护衣，减少院内感染。
Under the enhanced surveillance programme, patients requiring testing will be placed in negative pressure ward isolation first. However, as the number of cases increases, they may be transferred to the monitoring wards. The beds in the wards will be ventilated at least 6 times an hour and air filtration equipment will be installed. Staff will also wear full protective clothing to reduce nosocomial infections.
对于被确诊感染人群，根据中国香港特区医管局的应变计划安排：目前香港的确诊病人会被送往玛嘉烈医院的传染病中心处理，其后确诊病人会由7个医院联网的主要急症医院分别接收。
Under the contingency plan of the Hospital Authority of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China, confirmed patients in Hong Kong will be referred to the Centre for Infectious Diseases at Princess Margaret Hospital for treatment, and confirmed patients will be admitted separately from the seven major acute hospitals networked by the hospitals.
医院管理局总行政经理（感染及应急事务）庄慧敏透露：每个联网医院可接收20个确诊病人，若日后超过此数会再次进行调配。
The Chief Executive Officer (Infection and Emergency Response) of the Hospital Authority, Miss Ada Chuang, revealed that 20 patients could be admitted to each network hospital.
香港目前的新冠确诊病人会被送往的玛嘉烈医院外景。
Patients diagnosed with the new crown in Hong Kong will be sent to the external location of Princess Margaret Hospital.
焦建/摄2月6日上午10时左右，《财经》记者在位于香港葵涌地区的玛嘉烈医院外发现：该医院地势较高，旁边即为香港葵涌货柜码头。
At about 10: 00 a.m. on February 6, Caijing reporter discovered the hospital outside Ma Ka Ling Hospital in Kwai Chung, Hong Kong. The hospital has a higher topography and is adjacent to the Kwai Chung Container Terminal in Hong Kong.
除少数救护车辆驶入驶出医院外，附近已经几无行人，来往就诊者亦为数不多。
With the exception of a small number of ambulance vehicles entering and leaving the hospital, there were few pedestrians in the vicinity and a small number of visitors.
全力新增多个检疫中心除上述居家隔离及医护安排之外，目前香港特区在抗疫过程中遇到的另一个核心难题，在于如何建立检疫中心，用以安排曾与确诊患者有密切接触但仍没有病征者。
Apart from the above-mentioned home isolation and health care arrangements, another core challenge facing the HKSAR in combating the disease is the establishment of quarantine centres for people who have been in close contact with confirmed patients but still do not have symptoms.
此前，香港特区政府已经安排麦理浩夫人度假村、鲤鱼门公园度假村，以及北潭涌度假营转为检疫中心。
Earlier, the HKSAR Government had arranged for the conversion of Lady MacLehose Holiday Village, Lei Yue Mun Park Resort and Pak Tam Chung Holiday Camp into a quarantine centre.
据《财经》记者了解：这三个地方共可提供97个独立的检疫单位，至2月5日时已用了80个。
According to Caijing, 97 separate quarantine units can be provided in the three places, 80 of which had been used by February 5.
为增加检疫单位数量，目前香港特区政府采取的措施是联系各类度假营。
To increase the number of quarantine units, the HKSAR Government has taken measures to contact various holiday camps.
但受制于地理位置、独立房间数量有限等限制，目前进展较慢。
However, progress is slow due to geographical constraints, limited number of separate rooms, etc.
此外，香港特区政府亦已宣布将征用位于香港特区荔枝角的饶宗颐文化馆内的翠雅山房，作为香港的第四个检疫中心。
The HKSAR Government has also announced that it will expropriate the Jade Yat Shan House in Lai Chi Kok, HKSAR, as the fourth quarantine centre in Hong Kong.
香港宣布将征用位于荔枝角饶宗颐文化馆内的翠雅山房作为香港第四个检疫中心。
Hong Kong has announced that it will expropriate the Jade Yat Shan Housing in Lap Chi Kok Yat Kwai House as the fourth quarantine centre in Hong Kong.
焦建/摄饶宗颐文化馆位于香港特区九龙荔枝角青山道800号，由20余幢百年历史建筑群组成。
Located at 800 Castle Peak Road, Lai Chi Kok, Kowloon, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Jiao Jian / Raojongyi Museum comprises more than 20 historical buildings.
这批香港三级历史建筑，历经“九龙关”分关、“猪仔馆”、监狱、医院等职能。
These three historic buildings in Hong Kong have undergone the functions of "Kowloon Pass," "Piggy House," prisons and hospitals.
目前位于其中作为旅馆的翠雅山房有89个房间。
The Jade Mountain Room, which is currently located as a hotel, has 89 rooms.
中国香港特区食物及卫生局相关人士此前曾指出：饶宗颐文化馆位处山上，其整体设施符合要求。
Relevant people of the Food and Health Bureau of the Hong Kong SAR of China have previously pointed out that the overall facilities of Rao Zongyi Cultural Complex meet the requirements.
其中的翠雅山房前身有医疗用途，间隔及设施适合作为检疫中心，亦相对远离民居，是最快能转作检疫中心投入服务的设施。
The Jade Yat Shan housing project, formerly used for medical purposes, is suitable for use as a quarantine centre. It is also relatively far from residential buildings and can be converted into a quarantine centre as soon as possible.
一旦该中心启用，将有执法人员及医护人员24小时监察，出逃人士须负刑责。
Once opened, the centre will be monitored 24 hours a day by law enforcement officers and medical staff, and offenders will be held criminally liable.
2月6日上午，《财经》记者在饶宗颐文化馆外发现：该地已经临时关停不再对外，亦有相应管理人员在院内进行巡视。
On the morning of February 6, a reporter from Caijing noticed outside the Rao Zongyi Culture Museum that the site had been temporarily closed to the outside world.
据知情人士对《财经》记者表示：该处本属香港诊治麻疯病人的地方，地理位置与民居有距离。
According to a person familiar with the matter, the location of the district, which is a place for the treatment of leprosy patients in Hong Kong, is remote from residential buildings.
但距离该文化馆仅一条马路之隔的美孚新邨居民则对《财经》记者表示：山房太近民居，不适合用作隔离怀疑个案，如果仅仅是给医疗人员作隔离住宿则可以接受。
However, residents of Mei Foo Sun Tsuen Estate, just one block away from the cultural centre, told Caijing News: "Shan Fang is too close to residential buildings to be used for isolated suspected cases. It would be acceptable only to provide isolated accommodation for medical staff."
因周边居民抗议声音较多，深水埗区议会于2月5日时举行特别会议讨论措施，会上在提出了反对征用翠雅山房作隔离营的动议，在进行投票结果显示22票赞成、2票弃权。
On 5 February, the Sham Shui Po District Council held a special meeting to discuss the measures in response to the outcry from residents around the district. A motion against the requisition of the Tsui Yat Shan Housing as a quartering camp was put forward at the meeting. The result of the vote was 22 in favour with 2 abstentions.
此前，香港特区政府亦曾提出在粉岭晖明邨拟拨出大楼作隔离中心，但最终亦因种种原因无法执行；相较之下，另一处被舆论视为候选地的港中医院，则因已荒废数年，短期内难以正式启用。
The Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has also proposed the allocation of a building as an isolation centre in Yue Ling Tsuen, but this will not be implemented for various reasons. In contrast, another Hong Kong Chinese Hospital, considered a candidate by public opinion, has been abandoned for several years and will not be operational in the short term.
虽香港特区发展局也正在研究找空地增建检疫中心设施，但短期内亦无法投入使用。
Although the Development Bureau of the HKSAR is also studying the possibility of building additional quarantine centre facilities in vacant lots, it will not be operational soon.
全国政协常委、香港友好协进会会长唐英年于2月5日在提出抗疫建议时称：为增加检疫中心，可征用迪士尼3间酒店，以至考虑使用部分石岗军营。
Speaking on February 5, Mr Tang Ying-nien, chairman of the Standing Committee of the CPPCC and President of the Hong Kong Council of Friendship Society, said: To increase the number of quarantine centers, three hotels in Disneyland could be requisitioned and some Shek Kong barracks could be considered.
最新的消息是：目前中国香港特区政府正全速准备在现有的三个检疫中心和西贡户外康乐中心，以组合屋形式增加检疫单位。
The latest news is that the Hong Kong SAR Government is making full preparations to add quarantine units in the form of block housing at the three existing quarantine centres and Sai Kung Outdoor Recreation Centre.
首批百个单位最快3月中可以落成。
The first 100 units will be ready by mid-March at the earliest.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
香港全力抗疫：即日实施检疫新政，抗疫体系轮廓清晰。
Hong Kong's full fight against the disease: the New Deal for Quarantine was implemented today.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "香港全力抗疫：即日实施检疫新政，抗疫体系轮廓清晰";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Hong Kong's full fight against the disease: New Deal for Quarantine and clear & quot; & quot; & quot; system.
var msg_desc = "早识别、早确诊、早隔离，是避免出现社区爆发的要点。
var msg _ desc = & quot; early identification, early diagnosis, and early isolation were key to avoiding a community outburst.
“要有效减低社区传播，须加大力度减少社会接触，呼吁市民取消社交活动和避免去人多场所等。
"To effectively reduce community transmission, we need to step up our efforts to reduce social contact, appeal to the public to cancel social activities and avoid visiting crowded places," he said.
”林郑月娥称";。
"; Mrs Lam says and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
