疫情蔓延，拿到逆势红包的在线游戏接下来怎么走？。
Epidemic spread, get the online game of countertrend red packets next how to go?
王凤。
Wang Feng.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_春节期间游戏玩家激增，给大部分游戏公司带去了高于往年的流水。
The number of gamers surged during the Spring Festival, bringing more water to most gaming companies than in previous years.
要留住玩家，游戏公司面临越来越激烈的存量博弈_文 |《财经》记者 王凤编辑 | 谢丽容这个春节，既是游戏人又是投资人的李昊，成功将《魔兽世界》介绍给了71岁的丈母娘。
To retain players, the game company faces a growing stock game - & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
高龄的丈母娘平时根本不关注游戏，李昊往年春节要忙于各种应酬，新型冠状病毒引发的肺炎，让他们停下了各自的脚步，开始将部分精力分配到游戏上。
The elderly mother-in-law usually do not pay attention to the game, Li Hao in previous years Spring Festival to be busy with a variety of entertainment, the new coronavirus-induced pneumonia, let them stop their footsteps, began to allocate part of their energy to the game.
第三方研究机构伽马数据监测显示，春节期间7日内（除夕至初六，原法定节假日），苹果畅销榜TOP10游戏的流水同比增幅超40%，TOP10-60的游戏流水增幅超100%。
Gamma data monitoring by a third-party research organization showed that within 7 days of the Spring Festival (New Year's Eve to June 6, the original statutory holidays), Apple's top-selling TOP 10 game increased by more than 40 percent year-on-year, and the TOP 10-60 game water increased by more than 100 percent.
不过，TOP60以后的游戏下载量同比有所下降。
However, after the TOP 60 game download has decreased year-on-year.
每年春节档都是游戏公司的收割期，但相比之下，今年尤甚。
The Spring Festival holiday is the harvest time for gaming companies each year, but this year is especially so.
多位接受《财经》记者采访的业内人士称，受这波疫情的影响，KTV、聚餐、旅行等线下娱乐方式受阻后，游戏行业迎来一波超预期增长，尤其移动端游戏。
A number of industry sources interviewed by Caijing said the game industry, particularly mobile games, is experiencing a wave of surpassing expectations as a result of the epidemic and the disruption of off-line entertainment such as KTV, meals and travel.
市场情绪明显地传导到股市中。
Market sentiment is clearly transmitted to the stock market.
中信建投证券此前发布报告，预估2020年1月，《王者荣耀》真实流水在90.84亿元左右。
Citic Construction Securities had previously released a report estimating the true flow of "The Glory of the King" at about 9.084 billion yuan in January 2020.
2月3日股市开市至2月7日收盘，腾讯控股（0700.HK）股票上涨6.46%。
Tencent Holdings (0700.HK) shares rose 6.46% between February 3, when the stock market opened, and February 7, when the stock closed.
2月3日开市后，A股游戏公司大面积飘红。
February 3 after the opening of the market, A-share gaming companies large red.
截至2月7日收盘，完美世界（002624.SZ）股价上涨24.2%。
Shares in Perfect World (002624.SZ) were up 24.2% as of February 7.
三七互娱（002555，SZ）股价上涨29.71%。
Shares in 37.3m (002555, SZ) rose 29.71 per cent.
原本以生产扑克为主业的姚记科技（002605，SZ），股价上涨23.95%。
Originally based on the production of poker Yao Keji technology (002605, SZ), shares rose 23.95%.
旗下《小美斗地主》与腾讯旗下的《欢乐斗地主》是竞品，在春节档获得累计千万级的用户。
The title of "Xiao Mei Landlord" and Tencent's "Pleasure Fighting Landlord" are bidding, in the Spring Festival archives to obtain a total of 10 million users.
走红的游戏种类，和往年没有什么大不同。
The kinds of games that have become popular are not so different from those of previous years.
在App Store和安卓应用市场中，排名靠前的游戏大致分为两类：一类是MOBA、重度手游，如腾讯的《王者荣耀》、《和平精英》；另一类是棋牌类、休闲类游戏，如头条系的《我功夫特牛》、《是特工就上100层》，腾讯旗下的《欢乐斗地主》。
In the App Store and Android Apps, the top two categories of games are MOBA, heavy hand travel, such as Tencent's Pride to the King, and Peace Elite, and chess, leisure-style games, such as the headline-grabbing My Kung Fu Bull, Secret Service on the 100th floor, and Tencent's Pleasure Fighting Landlord.
不同的是，用户在线时长、在线数量增幅惊人。
The difference is that the number of users online has increased dramatically.
几乎所有游戏公司都尝到了甜头，但不是所有公司都持续受益。
Almost all gaming companies have tasted the good stuff, but not all have continued to benefit.
过去两年，整个行业经历强监管、版号限制、资本撤退，略显疲态。
Over the past two years, the industry as a whole has experienced strong regulation, version restrictions, capital withdrawals, and a slight fatigue.
2020年，这个意料之外的强势开局，对于游戏行业来说，像一剂强心剂。
In 2020, this unexpected strong start, for the game industry, like a tonic.
伽马数据首席分析师王旭向《财经》记者强调，这次疫情事件中，游戏属于避风港行业，但如果整体经济长期受到影响，长远来看，没有任何行业可以幸免。
Wang Xuan, chief gamma data analyst, told Caijing that the game was a safe haven during the outbreak, but that if the overall economy was affected in the long run, no industry would be spared in the long run.
此外，多位受访者向《财经》记者表示，接下来，游戏用户争夺将更加激烈。
In addition, a number of interviewees told Caijing that competition among game users would intensify next.
腾讯长线爆发，字节跳动收割短期流量在App Store游戏免费榜TOP10榜单中，腾讯系和头条系游戏占据7款。
Tencent long-line bursts, byte jump harvesting short-term traffic in the App Store game free TOP 10 list, Tencent and Headline play seven games.
腾讯系游戏包括竞技性游戏《王者荣耀》和《和平精英》，棋牌类游戏《欢乐斗地主》、《腾讯欢乐麻将全集》。
Tencent's games include competitive games "The Glory of the King" and "Peace Elite," chess game "Pleasure Fight Landlord," "Tencent Joy Mahjong Complete."
《王者荣耀》是腾讯游戏天美工作室发行的多人在线战术竞技类手游。
"Glory of the King" is Tencent game Tianmei Studio issued by the multi-person online tactical competitive hand tour.
与DOTA类游戏《英雄联盟》类似，但对玩家的操作要求更低，问世后引起一波游戏热潮。
Similar to the Dota-like game Heroes League, but with even lower operating requirements for players, it triggered a wave of game craze.
原本，玩家之间可进行1V1、3V3、5V5等方式的PVP（Player versus player）对战。
Originally, players can be 1 V1, 3V3, 5V5 and other means of PVP (Player versus player).
春节期间，游戏又推出2人组队的快节奏竞技玩法，新英雄、新皮肤的推出，也增加游戏的吸引力。
During the Spring Festival, the game also launched two teams of fast-paced competitive play, new heroes, the introduction of new skin, also increase the game's appeal.
《王者荣耀》几乎可算做为全民性的游戏。
"The Glory of the King" can almost be regarded as a national game.
这款游戏2015年上线，2017年底日活跃用户数达到5千万，注册用户超过2亿，成为全球用户数最多的MOBA手游。
The game, which went live in 2015, has 50 million active users and more than 200 million registered users at the end of 2017, making it the world's largest user of MOBA.
此后，腾讯官方再未公布相关数据。
Tencent officials have not released figures since then.
“确实进入了一个高原期，但春节迎来一波上扬是肯定的”，中娱数字创意产业研究院副院长林宾华对《财经》记者分析称，疫情宅家使得这次波峰更高。
"It is true that we have entered a plateau, but the Spring Festival is definitely going up," Lin Binghua, vice-president of the Institute for Digital Creative Industries, told Caijing that the epidemic homestead had made the peak higher.
他分析，《王者荣耀》能覆盖到的玩家已基本覆盖，拉新成本现在很高，但现有用户受到运营活动的刺激、以及一部分用户的回归，所以带来一波高峰。
He analyzed that the players covered by "The Glory of the King" were almost covered, and that the cost was now high, but the current users were stimulated by operational activity and some of the users returned, resulting in a spike.
《和平精英》是腾讯游戏光子工作室推出的一款战术竞技类游戏，春节期间，游戏推出特殊的竞技模式，与车企、明星合作，将游戏植入综艺广告、食品包装。
The Elites of Peace is a tactical competitive game released by Tencent Photon Studio. During the Spring Festival, the game features a special competition model, working with car companies and stars to embed games in variety ads and food packaging.
一系列运营手段，加上游戏本身过硬的品质，促成一波爆发。
A series of operational measures, coupled with the game's own excellent quality, contributed to a wave of eruptions.
“《王者荣耀》、《和平精英》具有社交属性，均具备呼朋唤友的功能，是整个春节年轻人‘线上聚会’代替‘线下聚会’的较好娱乐平台，很像麻将棋牌类游戏代替中老年人春节聚会。
"Glory of the King," "Peace Elite" have social attributes, are called friends, the Spring Festival youth 'online parties' to replace 'offline parties' better entertainment platform, much like Mahjong chess games in place of the Chinese New Year party for the elderly.
”王旭对《财经》记者分析。
"Wang Xu's analysis of Caijing.
和前者相比，棋牌类游戏可能更像是春节麻将棋牌局的替代。
Compared with the former, chess games may be more like the Spring Festival mahjong chess game replacement.
《腾讯欢乐麻将全集》在免费游戏榜单的排名，由平时的40-50名，跃居前10。
Tencent Joy Mahjong in the free game list of the rankings, from the usual 40-50, jumped to the top 10.
《欢乐斗地主》则由平时的25-30名跃居前10。
"Glee Landlord" jumped to the top 10 from 25 to 30 in peacetime.
两款游戏均植入内购、激励广告。
Both games are embedded in in-house purchase, incentive advertising.
在免费榜单中，头条系的超休闲类游戏《脑洞大师》、《我功夫特牛》、《是特工就上100层》也成为热门选择。
Top-notch supercasual games like "Master Brain Cave," "My Kung Fu Bull" and "Being a Secret Service Agent on the 100th floor" are also hot choices in the free list.
对于相当一部分突然闲下来的中老年玩家，重度游戏过于复杂，竞技类游戏上手门槛较高，休闲类游戏是不二选择。
For a considerable number of suddenly idle middle-aged and elderly players, the heavy game is too complex, competitive games on the high threshold, leisure game is the only choice.
三款游戏均无内购，利用其它APP中的广告买量，也将短视频平台作为用户导流入口。
None of the three games are purchased in-house, using other APP advertising volume, also using short video platform as the user diversion portal.
#我功夫特牛#（截至2月7日15:00,2.4万个视频、44亿次播放）等相关话题均有可观阅读量。
# My kungfu special beef # (as of 7 February at 15: 00, 24,000 videos, 4.4 billion broadcasts) and related topics have received considerable reading.
抖音App上还有几款游戏的关卡攻略视频。
There are also several levels of game attack videos on the Jitter App.
与腾讯旗下的《欢乐斗地主》不同，字节跳动代理的姚记科技游戏《小美斗地主》没有插入内购。
Unlike Tencent's Happy Landlord, Yao Ji, the byte-beating agent's technology game "Xiao Mei fighting landlord", did not plug in.
“从运营模式上作出差异化”——无任何计费点、纯广告模式，“既让玩家觉得省钱，又让玩家享受高级玩法”，姚记科技的游戏制作人对《财经》记者说。
"Differentiate from the operating model" - no billing point, no pure advertising model, "both to let players feel economical, but also to enjoy the advanced game," Yao Jietech's game producer told Caijing.
字节跳动从2018年才开启游戏领域的布局。
The byte jumps only from 2018 to open the layout of the game domain.
2019年6月开启自研重度游戏的“绿洲计划”。
In June 2019, it launched the "Oasis Project," an initiative to develop serious games.
一边通过代理小游戏和休闲游戏积累用户，一边在北京、上海、深圳、杭州招兵买马、自建团队，研发MMORPG（多人在线网络游戏）和ARPG（动作角色扮演类游戏）。
Accumulate users through proxy games and casual games while recruiting and building teams in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hangzhou, developing MMORPG (multiplayer online games) and ARPG (action role-playing games).
“（三款游戏）证明字节跳动的休闲游戏还是走流量模式”，一家美国咨询公司游戏行业顾问蒋鹏对《财经》记者说。
"[The three games] prove whether the byte-beating leisure game or the traffic pattern," Jiang Peng, a game industry consultant at a US consultancy, told Caijing.
相比腾讯几款长线运营的游戏，字节跳动目前只能凭借既有流量、渠道优势，向游戏领域频繁发起挑战。
Tencent compared to a number of long-line operations of the game, byte beating can only rely on existing traffic, channel advantages, to the game field frequently launched challenges.
腾讯与字节跳动之间的氛围是微妙的。
Tencent and the byte beat between the atmosphere is delicate.
“腾讯目前的姿态是‘我相信你现在挑战不了我，甚至不具备这样的资格’，但字节跳动将自己视为挑战者。
"Tencent's current posture is' I believe you can't challenge me right now, or even have the qualifications', but the byte beats itself as a challenger.
”林宾华说，腾讯和网易相互之间是良性竞争态势，字节跳动的进场更具进攻性，同时带来产业的变化，进而所产生的不确定性，为腾讯带来忧虑。
Tencent and Netease are in benign competition with each other, with byte jumps coming in more aggressively and bringing changes to the industry, creating uncertainty that worries Tencent, he said.
国内的游戏环境已远不是10年前，留给字节跳动的时间并不多。
The domestic game environment is far from 10 years ago, leaving bytes to jump time is not much.
变现需求、回报周期的压缩，让字节跳动的进攻节奏必须既快又准。
Liquidation requirements, the compression of the return cycle, so that the byte beating of the attack rhythm must be both fast and accurate.
本次春节几款超休闲游戏的试水，体现了其用户获取和资金实力。
This Spring Festival a few super leisure game test water, reflected its user obtains and the capital strength.
但蒋鹏认为，目前来看，“还有太多需要做”。
But Peng Jiang believes that, at present, "there is still too much to do."
大公司躺赢，小公司命运不同相比腾讯、网易、字节跳动等，在巨头裂隙中生存的大多中小游戏公司的春节并不轻松。
Large companies lie down to win, the fate of small companies than Tencent, Netease, byte beat, and so on, in the giant crack survival of most small and medium-sized game companies the Spring Festival is not easy.
“不能只看免费排行榜，总体看，一月流水TOP10的游戏，还是以传统的游戏模式（重度游戏）居多。
"We can't just look at the free rankings. Overall, January's Top 10 games are still dominated by traditional games (heavy games).
”王旭向《财经》记者表示，除了表现突出的腾讯系游戏，2019年推出的新游戏，在春节期间表现不错，如完美世界（主要是《新笑傲江湖》《完美世界》）、莉莉丝、紫龙游戏。
Wang told Caijing that, in addition to the prominent Tencent department game, new games launched in 2019 are doing well during the Spring Festival, such as the Perfect World (mainly New Smiling Ao Lake, Perfect World), Lilith and Purple Dragon.
从产品上看，TOP10流水巨大，TOP60的下载量和流水增幅也很不错。
From the product point of view, TOP 10 huge water, TOP 60 download and flow growth is also very good.
“这说明，头部企业继续强势，中间力量也收获不少。
"This shows that the head of the enterprise continues to be strong, the middle power also harvest a lot.
”但是，TOP60以后，就不那么明显了。
But after the TOP 60, it became less obvious.
甚至下载量同比有所下降。
Even downloads have fallen year on year.
“你也说了，腾讯、网易，这和我们这些中小公司有什么关系？”成都一家游戏公司的创始人张杨反问《财经》记者。
"You also said, Tencent, Netease, this and we small and medium-sized companies how?" Chengdu, founder of a game company Zhang Yang asked Caijing reporters.
张杨的游戏公司，1月份流水较去年同比增长40%，从立春之后便进入拐点，虽然DAU没有下降，付费率和ARPU逐渐疲软，大幅度下滑。
Zhang's gaming company, which recorded a 40 per cent year-on-year increase in January, has since moved into the inflection point, although the DAU has not fallen and the rate of payment and ARPU are weakening, falling sharply.
春节结束，用户不再“大手大脚”花钱了。
At the end of Spring Festival, users no longer spend money lavishly.
此外，春节原本2月1日上班，但各地政府均出台延迟开班的通知。
In addition, the Spring Festival had originally come to work on February 1, but governments around the world have announced delays in opening classes.
对中小游戏公司而言，问题开始凸显。
For small and medium game companies, the problem is beginning to loom large.
北京一家300多人的游戏公司，3号开始上班，实际一共到位19人。
Beijing, a game company of more than 300 people, started work on the 3rd, the actual total of 19 people.
人员受出行担忧、交通阻隔等多重因素影响，只能在家办公。
People are affected by many factors, such as travel worries, traffic barriers, can only work from home.
即便有100多人在北京，也无法开工。
Even with more than 100 people in Beijing, it is impossible to start.
很多办公设备在公司，原画、测试等岗位的工作，也不能在家里的网络环境和PC上完成。
A lot of office equipment in the company, original painting, testing and other jobs, but also can not be completed in the home network environment and PC.
“年前约好入职的，一个都没来，又有30%的人离职。
"When I made an appointment to get in one year ago, not one of them showed up and another 30 percent left.
”张杨说，对于中小公司而言，一个萝卜一个坑，离开几个关键人员，公司就有陷入停摆的风险。
'For small and medium-sized companies, a rodent in a pit and leaving several key people puts the company at risk of being stopped, 'Mr. Zhang said.
相比腾讯等拥有较多人员配置、内部远程办公平台完善的大企业，中小游戏公司和各行业各业的公司一样，需要快速组织员工在特定平台上适应远程办公，面临低效率、持续的人员成本（社保、工资等）、房租压力。
Small and medium-sized game companies, like companies in every industry, need to quickly organize their employees to adapt to telecommuting on specific platforms, facing inefficiencies, ongoing staff costs (social security, wages, etc.), and rent pressures.
拥有不同产品周期的小公司，命运可能也不同。
Small companies with different product cycles may also have different fortunes.
产品尚在开发期的公司，受创较大，甚至是“灭顶之灾”；有成熟产品的中小公司则赶上这波游戏潮。
Companies that are still in the process of developing their products are suffering more, or even being "wiped out"; small and medium-sized companies with mature products are catching up.
运营、市场能力成为关键。
Operation, market capacity becomes the key.
在上海一家小游戏公司任总经理的李昊相对乐观。
Li Hao, general manager of a small game company in Shanghai, was relatively optimistic.
李昊所在的公司主要聚焦端游。
Li Hao's company mainly focused on the end of the tour.
春节期间流水有30-40%的涨幅。
Flowing water rose 30-40 percent during the Spring Festival.
虽然每个游戏的玩家相对不多，平时出去喝酒、打牌、拜访亲友，现在全部在家打游戏，开销几乎降到0，“这些玩家开始舍得充钱玩游戏”，李昊对《财经》记者分析道，“付费用户还是那么多，但在线时长变长、付费能力也提升了。
Although the number of players per game is relatively small, usually out to drink, play cards, visit friends and relatives, now all play games at home, the cost is almost 0. "These players are starting to spend money on games," Li Hao told Caijing.
”市场是残酷的。
The market is brutal.
尤其在此时，小游戏公司500万的项目与大游戏公司5000万的项目同台竞技。
Especially at this time, the 5 million game company's 5 million projects compete with the big game company's 50 million projects.
李昊认为，公司的生存法则是，在自己的自留地上精耕细作，把老玩家和忠实玩家服务好。
Li Hao believed that the company's survival rule is, in their own land on the meticulous farming, the old players and loyal players to serve.
拉在线、拉时长和拉收入的活动都把握力度，不致玩家反感。
Pull online, pull the length of time and pull the income of the activities are grasp strength, do not antagonize players.
他认为，这个办法至少对于自己所在的公司是有效的，往年这家公司Q1的业绩是下滑的，当前已经完成Q1的KPI。
This approach, he argues, is at least as effective for his own company, which in previous years has seen a decline in Q1 results and has now completed its KPI for Q1.
春节期间，姚记科技的《小美斗地主》与头条合作，姚记科技负责产品研发，今日头条是这款游戏的代理发行方，负责产品买量和变现，用户累计超千万。
During the Spring Festival, Yao Ji's "Xiao Mei Landlord" works with the headlines. Yao Ji is in charge of product development. Today, Yao Ji is the acting distributor of the game, responsible for product purchases and liquidations, with more than 10 million users.
这款游戏1月11日上线首发。
The game went live on January 11.
春节期间，游戏运营人员基本在家维持办公状态，24小时在线服务玩家。
During the Spring Festival, game operators basically maintain the office at home, 24-hour online service players.
2月3日，公司开始全员在家办公。
On February 3, the company began operating from home for all.
几个技术人员提前几天回上海，自我隔离14天，没问题后开始上班。
Several technicians returned to Shanghai a few days early, isolated themselves for 14 days, and started work after no problem.
据上述游戏制作人透露，这款游戏新增用户、DAU、广告收入，对比1月11日正式上线前，有5倍以上的增长。
According to the game's creators, the game's new users, DAU and advertising revenue have grown more than five times since it went live on January 11.
iOS和Andriod 双端日新增用户最多超百万。
Both iOS and Andriod add up to one million new users a day.
“新增男性、中老年用户比较多。
"More men, middle-aged and elderly users.
短线留存（3日内）和长线留存（7日以上）高一些。
Short-term retention (3 days) and long-term retention (7 days or more) were higher.
”游戏行业每年春节都有一波洗牌。
The gaming industry has a wave of shuffles every Spring Festival.
今年春节，尾部游戏公司的洗牌将会更加明显。
This Spring Festival, the tail game company's shuffle will be more obvious.
特别小的创业公司，甚至不是看能力，而是看运气。
Especially small start-up companies, not even to see the ability, but to look at luck.
提前透支内容和投入，后续节奏跟不上，林宾华对《财经》记者说，此次“大春节档”对中小游戏公司而言，可能不是好事情。
The Spring Festival holiday may not be a good thing for small and medium-sized gaming companies, Lin told Caijing in advance of overdraft content and investment, and the pace of follow-up couldn't keep pace.
张杨已经开始担心，相对漂亮的数据维持到2月到3月初，难以持续。
Mr. Zhang has begun to worry that the relatively good data will not last until February or early March.
“疫情结束，是另一个噩梦的开始。
"The end of the epidemic is the beginning of another nightmare.
”原本就难以拿到投资，疫情使通路更加封闭。
Investment was already difficult to obtain, and the epidemic closed access even further.
已经赚钱的项目，不需要投资，亟需资金的游戏拿不到钱。
Projects that have already made money do not require investment, and games in which money is badly needed cannot be paid for.
存量用户争夺将更激烈2018年中国整体游戏市场同比增长率仅为5.3%，创近几年新低。
Stock user contention will be more intense 2018 China's overall game market growth rate is only 5.3% YoY, a new low in recent years.
2019年，中国游戏市场实际销售收入同比增长7.7%（数据来源：中国音数协游戏工委&国际数据公司（IDC）），小幅回暖。
In 2019, China's gaming market posted a 7.7% year-on-year increase (source: China Phonographic Association Games Working Committee and International Data Corporation (IDC)), a modest upturn.
这个春节，游戏行业拿到了一个大红包。
This Spring Festival, the game industry got a big red envelope.
这对此前相对低迷的游戏行业基本面是一剂“强心剂”。
This has been a relatively depressed game industry fundamentals is a "tonic."
从各家证券报告可以看出，第一季度的游戏数据普遍被市场看好。
From the various securities reports can see that the first quarter of the game data is generally positive market.
但是要延续这样的数据，看起来不太现实。
But it doesn't seem realistic to keep up the data.
短期看来，随着各地企业陆续复工，游戏用户会有一定的波动和减少。
In the short term, with the resumption of work around the enterprise, game users will have certain fluctuations and decreases.
林宾华认为，爆发期的用户实际上多是游戏内的收益和消耗，如何通过运营手段留住这些用户是关键。
Lin Binhua thinks, eruptive period user is actually inside game gain and consume, how to keep these user through operation means is key.
多家游戏公司已将优惠活动延续至2月底甚至3月份。
Several gaming companies have extended the campaign to the end of February or even March.
姚记科技游戏制作人预测到春节后用户留存的小低谷。
Yao Ji technology game producers predict the post-Spring Festival users to save the small valley.
他对《财经》记者说，团队将继续开发一系列主题活动给用户提供玩点。
He told Caijing that the team will continue to develop a series of themed activities to provide users with playpoints.
加快新版本的迭代的同时，团队也加大了召回老用户的力度。
While accelerating the iteration of the new version, the team also increased its efforts to recall old users.
李昊则认为，基于高价值用户在春节期间充值较多，“不可能说扔就扔了”，公司会继续在用户消费限度内平稳运营。
Li Hao on the other hand, based on high-value users during the Spring Festival charging more, "can not say throw throw", the company will continue to operate smoothly within the limits of user consumption.
中长期来看，疫情结束后游戏公司会有一定的用户流失，但乐观的行业预期是，可能一部分用户留在了游戏当中，培养了习惯。
In the medium to long term, the game company will have a certain loss of users after the end of the epidemic, but optimistic industry expectations, may be part of the users stay in the game, cultivate habits.
如果看得更长远一点，更乐观一点，即便用户流失，也有后续被激活的可能。
If you look at the longer term, more optimistic, even if the loss of users, there is also the possibility of subsequent activation.
伽马数据显示，2017年上半年，中国游戏市场用户规模增速降至3.7%。
In the first half of 2017, gamma data showed that China's gaming market grew by 3.7 per cent.
2018年上半年、2019年上半年，增速分别为3.9%、5.1%。
In the first half of 2018 and the first half of 2019, growth was 3.9 per cent and 5.1 per cent respectively.
持续增长的网民规模、抖音、快手等短视频变现需求等因素，一批非游戏用户转化为游戏用户。
Increasing the size of the Internet users, jitter, fast hand and other factors such as short video realisation requirements, a number of non-game users into game users.
但是，游戏行业远不是过去用户野蛮生长的态势，增量空间已不大。
However, the game industry is far from the past user barbaric growth trend, the incremental space has been small.
接下来，越来越激烈的存量博弈将持续。
Next, the stock game will continue to intensify.
此外，尽管这个不太合时宜的“大春节档”可能将游戏拉回一些投资人的视野，但投资人还有更多选择，他们可能也会更多地关注云游戏、VR游戏等想象力大的领域。
And, while the ill-timed Spring Festival might bring the game back to some investors, who have more options, they may also focus more on imaginative areas such as cloud games and VR games.
“游戏的早期投资，门槛较高。
"Early game investment, the threshold is high.
未来的投资方，也还是以大游戏发行商，大研发企业或大平台企业为主，而不是常规的财务投资公司。
Future investors are also large game distributors, large R & D companies or large platform companies, rather than conventional financial investment companies.
”王旭向《财经》记者说。
"Wang told Caijing.
受益于5G、AI等大技术趋势，行业普遍认为，移动游戏市场将持续爆发。
Benefiting from 5 G, AI and other big technology trends, the industry generally believed that the mobile games market will continue to erupt.
App Annie 数据（《2019中国游戏产业半年度报告》）显示，2019年移动游戏用户支出是其他平台总和的1.25倍；全球移动游戏用户支出超过PC/Mac游戏的2.4倍。
According to App Annie data (the 2019 China Games Industry Semi-Annual Report), mobile game users spent 1.25 times more than other platforms combined in 2019; and global mobile game users spent 2.4 times more than PC / Mac games.
越来越多的发行商为占领更大市场正在将主机游戏移植到移动平台。
More and more publishers are migrating mainframe games to mobile platforms to capture a larger market.
用户的口味愈加挑剔、耐心也越来越少。
The taste of users is getting more critical and less patient.
游戏公司面临更大的挑战。
Game companies face even greater challenges.
大公司的挑战是具化的，更多的中小公司则需要争夺巨头缝隙中的存量用户。
The challenge for big companies is concrete, and more small and medium-sized companies need to compete for the stock of users in the gap between giants.
“用户存在一个先集中、后分化的过程。
"There is a process where users concentrate first and then divide later.
”林宾华向《财经》记者表示，2020年，核心、活跃用户会寻找新的产品，“各种独立制作、创新制作的小游戏将有更大空间”。
Mr Lin told Caijing that in 2020, core, active users would look for new products and "there would be more room for independent, innovative small games."
（注：文中李昊、张杨为化名）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Note: Li Hao and Zhang Yang are aliases) Click here to see more details about the epidemic. & # 160; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情蔓延，拿到逆势红包的在线游戏接下来怎么走？。
Epidemic spread, get the online game of countertrend red packets next how to go?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情蔓延，拿到逆势红包的在线游戏接下来怎么走？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; spread; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "春节期间游戏玩家激增，给大部分游戏公司带去了高于往年的流水。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
要留住玩家，游戏公司面临越来越激烈的存量博弈。
To retain the player, the game company faces more and more intense stock game.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
