制造企业谋划复工大计，期待3月开始安全自救。
Manufacturing companies plan to resume work and expect to start saving themselves safely in March.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
_全国除湖北以外地区的确诊病例数增速连日放缓，让部分制造企业看到了希望，基于疫情防控的逐步进展，安全复工自救计划也开始酝酿_文 |《财经》记者 张威 编辑 | 袁满12个园区、1500家企业、近10万员工，总部在浙江温州的万洋集团有限公司（以下简称“万洋集团”）总裁吴建明，在春节期间就开始谋划如何将疫情造成的损失降到最低，尽快实现旗下工业园区企业的安全复工。
With the exception of Hubei province, the number of confirmed cases has slowed down day by day, giving some manufacturers hope that with the gradual progress of epidemic prevention and control, safety recovery plans have begun to develop.
吴建明向《财经》记者表示，按惯例，今年制造企业一般在农历腊月十五（1月9日）停工放假，正月十五（2月8日）复工，放假之前会储备一个月的生产物资。
Wu told Caijing that it was the usual practice for manufacturers to stop working on the 15th of the Lunar New Year (January 9) and resume work on the 15th of the first month.
“眼看临近节点，如果迟迟停工不仅仅影响制造业本身，也影响基本的物资保障，一些外贸型企业的客户更会移单到其他国家。
"If delays affect not only the manufacturing sector itself, but also basic material security, the customers of some foreign-trade enterprises will move to other countries.
”于是，待在家中的他通过微信会议群，启动了园区复工方案商讨，连续十几天与管理团队每天讨论、细化方案。
So, at home through the micro-letter group, he initiated discussions on a plan for resuming work in the park, discussing and refining the plan with the management team on a daily basis for a dozen days.
其中，“集中输送、集中防控”，被吴建明和团队认为是最为有效的工人返城方案。
Among them, "centralized transmission, centralized control", Wu Jianming and the team consider the most effective workers back to the city program.
这可以减少企业用人风险和政府防控压力，吴建明坦言，该方案的落实还有待地方政府的支持。
This could reduce the risks to employees and government pressure to control the program, which Wu admits is yet to be supported by local governments.
近年来，以园区为代表的产业集群快速发展，在这个概念下，一些相关产业链上下游产业或者同行业内的不同类型企业在空间上形成集聚。
In recent years, the industrial clusters represented by the park have developed rapidly. Under this concept, some related industries have formed clusters in the lower and upper industries or different types of enterprises in the same industries.
万洋集团的1500家企业的共性是均属制造业，且主要是中小企业。
Wanyang Group's 1500 enterprises are the common characteristics of the manufacturing industry, and mainly small and medium-sized enterprises.
1月27日，万洋集团陆续收到文件，园区复工时间从2月3日延迟至2月9日，2月17日。
On 27 January, Wanyang received documents that delayed the resumption of work on the campus from 3 February to 9 February and 17 February.
其中，广东园区在2月9日之后可复工，浙江园区则在2月17日可复工。
Among them, Guangdong Park can resume work after February 9, and Zhejiang Park can resume work on February 17.
以后者为例，万洋集团园区中60%的企业将在3月中旬才能正常运转。
In the latter case, 60% of the companies in the Wanyang campus will not be operational until mid-March.
延期开工对企业的杀伤力有多大？近日，中国社会科学院社会学研究所牵头推出的《企业开工力调查·报告》显示，能够承受1个月以上延期开工的企业为7.1%，能够承受2个月以上延期的企业仅为1.7%。
The report, led by the Institute of Social Sciences of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, shows that 7.1 percent of companies can afford a delay of more than one month and 1.7 percent can afford a two-month extension.
《世界智能制造中心发展趋势报告(2019)》显示，包括带有“智能制造”名称的所有产业园区，中国总共有537个，分布在全国27个省市。
According to the World Smart Manufacturing Center Development Report (2019), China has 537 industrial parks with "smart manufacturing" names in 27 provinces and cities across the country.
天眼查数据显示，我国目前共有超过958万家制造业企业，超过一半的制造业企业注册资本低于100万元，抵御风险能力偏弱。
Data compiled by Skyeye shows that there are currently more than 9.58 million manufacturing enterprises in China, more than half of which have a registered capital of less than one million yuan, making them less resilient to risks.
显而易见，更多的制造业企业正在谋划复工大计。
Clearly, more manufacturing companies are planning to get back to work.
浙江省微生物研究所所长陈欢认为，随着天气回暖疫情可能在5月份消亡，制造业有望在3-4月份正常运行。
Chen Huan, director of Zhejiang Institute of Microbial Research, said the manufacturing sector was expected to be operational in March-April as a warmer climate threatened to die out in May.
安全稳妥的复工预期，必须与疫情防控进展相结合。
Safe and secure return to work expectations must be combined with progress in disease prevention and control.
2月7日0—24时，全国新增确诊病例3399例，新增死亡病例86例，新增疑似病例4214例。
From 0 to 2400 hours on February 7, 3399 new cases were confirmed, 86 new deaths and 4,214 new suspected cases were reported.
据国家卫健委数据统计，2月7日0—24时，全国湖北以外地区新增确诊病例558例，增速连续第4日呈下降态势。
From 0 to 2400 hours on February 7, 558 new cases were diagnosed outside Hubei province, the fourth consecutive day of decline, according to figures from the National Fitness and Health Commission.
某疫情专家分析，除湖北省外，全国确诊病例数开始下降，如果这个势头可以保持，则说明湖北省外的省份输入性疫情得到了初步控制。
An epidemic expert analysis, except in Hubei Province, the number of confirmed cases nationwide began to decline, if this momentum can be maintained, it shows that the provinces outside Hubei Province have been the initial control of imported epidemic.
也是在这个大前提下，各省也开始做出了企业有序复工的通知。
Also in this general premise, the provinces also began to make the enterprise orderly return to work notice.
但对疫情还比较严重的省份或者城市还是会有限制。
But there will be restrictions in provinces or cities where the epidemic is more severe.
目前的疫情防控工作也进入了一个新的阶段，就是要控制本地病例。
The current epidemic prevention and control efforts have also entered a new phase of control of local cases.
所以，复工过程一定是分阶段的、分步骤的。
Therefore, the resumption process must be phased, step-by-step.
过程中会根据疫情的发展态势，科学防控、精准施策。
In accordance with the development of the epidemic situation, scientific control, precise policy.
陈欢建议，对于劳动密集型产业，从区域逐渐开工是比较合理的，可以选择受疫情影响比较小的城市优先投产，或者可以让本地区的人员优先到岗。
Chen Huan suggested that for labor-intensive industries, it is reasonable to start work gradually from the regions, and that priority should be given to those cities less affected by the epidemic, or that local personnel should be given priority in getting jobs.
当前，确诊病例数的连日下降，让制造业企业看到了希望。
With the number of confirmed cases falling day by day, manufacturing companies are seeing hope.
复工大计：集中输送、封闭管理园区的每一位制造企业主都在用心谋划如何安全稳妥地复工。
Return to work: Centralized transport, closed management of the park every manufacturer are carefully planning how to return to work safely and securely.
万洋集团对其中一份园区调研的结果显示，全园中90%企业主有急于复工的意愿，同时，90%以上的企业有政策扶持、金融服务需求。
A survey of one of the parks by Wanyang showed that 90% of the owners were eager to get back to work, while more than 90% had policy support and demand for financial services.
万洋集团的复工方案计划，让各园区工作小组组长积极联系当地政府部门，寻求政府帮助，努力促成工人输出地政府和输入地政府进行复工工人集中输送的工作对接，由输出地政府组织并完成工人的集中输出，由输入地政府做好工人集中防控工作。
The Wanyang Group's Restart Programme plans to actively engage the heads of the Park Working Groups with local government departments to seek government assistance in an effort to facilitate the centralization of the movement of workers between the Governments of the exporting and receiving countries, the organization and completion of concentrated worker exports by the exporting Governments, and the intensive control of workers by the importing Governments.
如果工人输出地和输入地政府未形成有效对接，各园区工作小组尝试与地方客运公司联系合作，帮助企业完成工人集中输送，集中防控，推动企业的尽早恢复生产。
In the absence of an effective interface between the workers' exporting and importing Governments, the working groups in the various parks try to link up with local passenger carriers to help enterprises to complete the concentration of workers, concentrate on prevention and control, and promote the early resumption of production.
同时，他们期望能寻求政府帮助，征用周边宾馆作为集中隔离点，确保隔离时间必须满足14天。
At the same time, they expect assistance from the Government in commandeering the surrounding hotels as a centralized isolation point to ensure that the isolation period is 14 days.
此外，寻找当地有能力在周边为园区提供劳动力输送的第三方劳务合作单位，为复工存在用人难问题的企业提供劳务支持。
In addition, a third-party labour cooperation unit capable of providing labour supply to the park in the vicinity is being sought to provide labour support to enterprises that are experiencing difficulties in resuming work.
并对园区提供经营性服务的商户给予租金优惠。
And to the park provides the business service the merchant to give the rent preferential treatment.
对于制造业来讲，人员全部到齐也需要一定的调试时间，因为制造业企业对于生产的物品非常谨慎，如果质量不合理，出现返工就会非常麻烦。
It also takes some adjustment time for the manufacturing industry to be fully staffed, because manufacturing companies are very careful about what they produce, and if the quality is not reasonable, rework can be very troublesome.
吴建明坦言“身在制造业之中，我们最直观的感受是，如果一个园区停滞不会影响大局，但是如果普遍性停工，这是一个很恐怖的事情。
"The most intuitive feeling we have of being in manufacturing is that if a park is stagnant it won't affect the big picture, but if it stops generally, it's a horrible thing."
”产业集群研究专家，中山大学地理与规划学院教授李郇则提醒，劳动力聚集是产业集群或园区最重要特征之一，由于劳动力高度流动和集聚程度高，疫情的影响会很大，如果一个人出现问题，很容易出现大的系统问题。
Xun Li, a professor at the School of Geography and Planning at Zhongshan University and an expert in industrial cluster research, cautions that labour concentration is one of the most important characteristics of industrial clusters or parks.
在疫情出现的时候，制造业企业首先是要为疫情提供基本的物资生产保障，并要要为工人提供身体健康的保障；企业的复工，需要充分量度疫情好转的情况下，在保障工人身心健康的基础上进行，并要进行有组织的管理。
At the time of the outbreak, manufacturing enterprises were required, first and foremost, to provide basic material production security for the epidemic and to provide physical health protection for workers; the resumption of work by enterprises needed to be carried out on the basis of the protection of workers' physical and mental health and organized management, taking full account of the improvement of the epidemic.
园区在复工前需要做好园区工人的系统化管理工作，包括工人返工前在家的管理、健康管理，开工后的产业园的工人的防护与卫生保障，活动管理等，还有各种的应急方案和系统。
Before returning to work, the park should do a good job in the systematic management of workers in the park, including the management of workers' homes before they return to work, health management, the protection and health protection of workers in industrial parks after construction, and the management of activities, as well as various emergency plans and systems.
有些企业的做法或许可供企业参考，赛意企业研究所研究部主任，武汉大学财税与法律研究中心客座研究员唐大杰向《财经》记者表示，个别在全国多地拥有分支机构的企业已经计划异地生产，将比较紧迫的订单从重灾区转移到非重灾区完成。
Some companies may be able to refer to the practices of enterprises, said Tang Dajie, director of research at Saii Enterprise Institute and guest researcher at Wuhan University's Center for Fiscal and Legal Studies, told Caijing that individual enterprises with branches in various parts of the country had planned to move their more urgent orders from hard-hit areas to non-disaster areas.
当然，这样存在很大的制约性，一般企业都不具备异地布局的规模，不过，异地生产自救是目前唯一可能做到的办法。
Of course, there is a lot of constraints, general enterprises do not have the size of a geographical distribution, but production in different places is the only possible way at present.
某业内人士表示，目前各地采取封路、切断边界，缺乏全国性的统筹，从制造业运营的特点来看，切断一个站点，就意味着整个道路系统的交通网络被同步切断，即便企业复工，运输能否畅通也有待进一步观察。
According to one industry source, road closures, border closures and the lack of national integration are common in all parts of the world and, given the nature of manufacturing operations, cutting off a single station means that the entire road network is being cut off simultaneously, and that it remains to be seen whether transport will be smooth even if the enterprise resumes work.
该业内人士进一步指出，制造业复工，需要解决以下几个问题：第一，制造业往往依靠外地务工人员，产业工人如何补充是地方政府必须要考虑的问题，不能让务工人员感觉这个地方拒绝外地人，如果不友好的感觉一旦形成，再想吸纳进来就比较困难；第二，企业必须做好长期抗疫的准备，特别是在疫情之下组织生产，相比服务业，制造业的优势是有条件进行小区域封闭生产；第三，疫情之下，个人、企业都有受伤，企业的工资安排应该更多采用市场化机制决定，企业涨工资的前提是能够生存下来。
First, how to supplement the manufacturing industry is a matter for local governments to consider. Second, the company must be prepared to resist the epidemic, especially if the unfriendly feeling is formed, and the manufacturing industry has the advantage of being able to close production in small areas.
“企业被要求几倍工资，短期来看是老百姓受益，但是长期来看，如果企业都不能存活了，失业的还是老百姓。
"Companies are being asked to pay several times their salaries, which is good for the people in the short term, but in the long run, if they can't survive, it's the people who are unemployed.
”根据万洋集团园区规定，复工之后，园区封闭生产，在保证生活物资及防控物资的前提下，杜绝企业工人随意进出园区，企业工人如遇紧急事项必须离开园区的，必须持有加盖企业公章的情况证明文件，经岗亭工作人员登记后方可放行。
Under the terms of the Wanyang Group Park, the park is closed to production after resumption of work, and workers of enterprises are not allowed to enter or leave the park at will, subject to the guarantee of living materials and materials for prevention and control.
没有经济正常的增长和运转是不可能抵御疫情的，这是基本的认识。
There is a basic understanding that it is impossible to resist an epidemic without normal economic growth and functioning.
唐大杰认为，重振经济，让延迟开工的企业能够好好地开起来，给与金融支持，增加企业主的信心。
Mr. Tang believes in reviving the economy, allowing businesses that have delayed starting to operate well to give financial support and boost business confidence.
但是，我并不赞同强迫金融机构提供低成本的服务，这是不可取的。
However, I am not in favour of forcing financial institutions to provide low-cost services, which is undesirable.
企业主应该发挥自己的能力自救，其中包括：行业协会（园区）做一些策略，同行业的企业达成共识，不搞价格竞争，成立纾困基金，大家共同度过行业艰难期。
Business owners should use their capabilities to help themselves. These include strategies developed by industry associations (parks), consensus-building among enterprises in the industry, no price competition, and the establishment of a rescue fund to help people through difficult times in the industry.
外向型企业：假期不休，高成本复工外向型制造企业拥有更为强烈的忧患意识。
Export-oriented companies: Holidays, high-cost export-oriented manufacturing enterprises have a stronger sense of hardship.
位于杭州的葛文志，在这个春节留下200名员工在厂内加班，如今，他为自己当初所作的决定而感到一丝欣慰。
Ge Wenzhi, based in Hangzhou, who left 200 employees working overtime at the factory during the Spring Festival, is now a bit relieved by the decision he made.
杭州美迪凯光电科技股份有限公司拥有员工600人，年产值约5个亿，日常业务以生产半导体零部件为主，产品主要出口日本。
Hangzhou Medekai Optoelectronic Technology Co. Ltd. has 600 employees, annual output value of about 500 million, daily business to produce semiconductor parts, mainly exported to Japan.
据葛文志介绍，相比其他的制造企业，他企业员工每年享有的假期只有12天（7天春节假期+5天年假），“企业都是提前拿到订单之后生产，今年春节本来计划一部分订单节前赶完，另外一部分订单留在节后，便留下200位员工进行加班。
According to Ge, his employees are entitled to only 12 days of vacation a year (7 days of Spring Festival + 5 days of annual leave) compared with other manufacturers. "Companies are getting their orders ahead of time, and this year's Spring Festival was supposed to see some of them finished before the holiday, leaving 200 employees behind to work overtime
”1月20日，并未感觉事情（疫情）严重，葛文志按照最初的计划给其余400名员工放假，根据国家规定，支付200名加班员工三倍工资。
On January 20, feeling nothing serious, Ge took leave of the remaining 400 employees as initially planned, paying 200 extra workers three times their wages, according to state regulations.
1月23日10时，武汉全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
At 1000 hours on January 23, Wuhan city bus, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation was suspended; without special reasons, citizens do not leave Wuhan, the airport, railway stations from Han corridor temporarily closed.
武汉封城的消息让葛文志感到紧张，他从外地紧急返回杭州，对加班在岗的200人厂区实施封闭式管理，除物流相关人员外，进出全部停止，员工吃住均在厂内。
The news of the closure of Wuhan made Ge feel nervous. He returned to Hangzhou from other places to manage the 200-person factory area where he worked overtime. Except for logistics-related personnel, the entry and exit was stopped and staff members were accommodated in the factory.
葛文志说，最重要的出口订单保住了，留岗的200人身体状况全部正常。
Mr. Ge said the most important export orders were kept and the 200 people who remained on guard were in good health.
不过，他依然面临比较艰难的开工抉择，如果让返乡员工回来而没有采取万无一失的隔离管控，那厂内原有的200人也有被传染的风险，让人更为担心的是，一部分员工来在疫情高发区，其中，湖北省员工占比达10%。
However, he is still faced with the more difficult task of starting work. If the returning workers are returned without a foolproof quarantine, the original 200 people in the factory are at risk of infection. Even more worrying is the fact that some workers come to areas with high epidemics, with Hubei Province accounting for 10 per cent of the workforce.
但是，如果不让外地员工回来，未来仅有三分之一人员投产，也非常影响业务订单。
However, if field workers are not allowed to return, only a third of the future workforce will go live, which will also have a significant impact on business orders.
葛志文不敢冒险。
Ge Zhiwen did not dare venture.
经过几番挣扎之后，他决定让湖北等疫情高发区的员工暂时在家等待公司通知复工，并且统计其他地区受疫情影响很小、有意愿返杭（回公司）复工的员工，之后与当地一家酒店达成封闭协议，返杭员工先到公司指定酒店，每人一间隔离14天，公司安排专有人员送饭，如果隔离14天都没有问题的员工，由专车接回公司返岗复工。
After struggling for several days, he decided to let the workers in Hubei and other high-prevalence areas stay home and wait for the company to inform them to return to work. Then he reached a closure agreement with a local hotel.
按照葛志文的计划，2月5日开始，已经有员工返杭在酒店进行自我隔离，2月20日就可以陆续有员工返岗复工，但他坦言，在疫情彻底结束前，返杭（回公司）复工的员工也仅有一百人左右。
According to Ge Zhiwen's plan, employees have returned to hang themselves at the hotel since Feb. 5, and workers will return to work on Feb. 20, but he admits that only about 100 workers will return to Hangzhou before the epidemic is completely over.
葛志文算了一笔费用，不能回来的员工享受每月2000多的基本工资，公平起见，正常复工的员工，在其每月工资基础上再额外加2000元，隔离员工每人15天住宿2700元，光光酒店住宿费支出约需30万。
For fairness, employees who return to work normally will receive an additional 2,000 yuan in addition to their monthly salary, an additional 2,700 yuan will be provided for each person in isolation for 15 days, and about 300,000 yuan will be spent on hotel accommodations alone.
葛志文心里明白，这已经不是钱的问题，尽快恢复生产，及时完成客户订单进而不影响到客户的经营才是最重要的，因为外向型企业的客户很容易被其它国家和地区企业抢走。
Ge Zhiwen understands that this is no longer a question of money. It is important to resume production as soon as possible, to complete customer orders in a timely manner and not to affect the operation of customers, because customers of export-oriented enterprises can easily be robbed by other countries and regions.
预期复工时间底线：最好能在4月从吴建明到葛文志，以及更多接受《财经》记者采访的制造企业主都明白，尽管备战复工，但是企业距离正常运转还有一段时间。
The bottom line: Ideally, business owners from Wu Jianming to Ge Wenzhi in April, as well as more business owners interviewed by Caijing, know that despite the preparations for resuming work, the company is still some time away from normal operation.
唐大杰向《财经》记者表示，制造业与服务业不同，制造业有一个物流和资金流的周期问题，从正常开工到备货、生产再到现金回流，一般企业是两个月为周期，所以即便开工，对资金困难的企业，也有难熬的两个月；第二，制造业需要通畅的物流，所以目前各地封路也进一步影响制造业的正常运转；第三，制造业依赖熟练工种，重灾区人员流动受限也会进一步影响企业正常开工。
Manufacturing, unlike services, has a two-month cycle, so even start-ups can be difficult for cash-strapped companies. Second, smooth logistics are needed to further disrupt manufacturing operations. Third, the manufacturing industry depends on skilled workers, and restrictions on the movement of workers in hard-hit areas will further affect normal business start-up.
鉴于目前疫情难以预测，葛志文做保守预期，认为他的企业最快也要在3月底才能全面复工（开工）。
Given the unpredictability of the current outbreak, Mr Ge made conservative predictions that his company would not be fully operational until the end of March at the earliest.
他说，企业复工（开工）越往后，丢失国外业务、丢掉国外客户的风险就越大！就会造成无法挽回的损失！如果疫情继续蔓延，则会导致制造业复工时间进一步延缓，吴建明将极限的时间点定位4月份，“如果4月份才能正常复工，我们园区30%的中小企业会受到重创甚至倒闭。
The further a business resumes, the greater the risk of losing business abroad and losing customers abroad, he said. If the epidemic continues, it could cause further delays in the resumption of manufacturing work. Mr. Wu set his limit for April, saying '30% of our small and medium-sized enterprises could be hit or shut down if work doesn't resume in April.
” 与大型企业不同，这些企业因获得比较少的金融服务，并没有过高的负债率，所以信贷压力不大，而且进入园区平台的企业可以享受一定的金融服务，他们最大的压力来自因停工导致的产业工人迁移。
Unlike large companies, which have less access to financial services and do not have excessive debt ratios, credit pressures are low, and firms entering the campus platform have access to certain financial services, with the greatest pressure coming from industrial workers displaced by work stoppages.
吴建明算了一笔细账：以2月17日复工为例，企业员工一般会在2月18日、19日两天陆续返回，之后隔离14天，制造业还有一个特点，务工人员多是陆续到岗，时间持续10天左右。
Wu Jianming calculated a detailed account: In the case of the resumption of work on February 17, enterprise employees will generally return on February 18, 19, two days after the return, and then 14 days of isolation, a feature of the manufacturing industry, the majority of workers are successively on duty for about 10 days.
这样算来，他目前60%的园区（浙江园区）要至少到3月中旬才能运转。
As a result, 60% of his campus (Zhejiang Park) won't be operational until at least mid-March.
多位接受《财经》记者采访的制造业企业主预测，至少要在3月下旬能够正常运转。
Several manufacturing business owners interviewed by Caijing said they expect to be up and running at least until late March.
唐大杰表示，说实在的，我根本看不到制造业正常运转的时间点，湖北省肯定要比全国其他地方恢复慢一些；再者，湖北处于中国的心脏地带，它的人口、物流牵扯到整个全国的业务结构，这会影响全国制造业以及阻碍整个经济的恢复。
Indeed, Hubei province is in the heart of China, and its population and logistics are involved in the entire business structure, which will affect the nation's manufacturing industry and hamper the recovery of the economy as a whole.
其次，企业主对经济一旦有下行预期，就会缩减业务规模。
Second, business owners will scale back their businesses once they have downward expectations of the economy.
窝在家里的制造业企业主们没有沉浸在疫情的阴霾之下，据吴建明介绍，他每天都会与几个企业主沟通，一旦开工如何尽快投产，如何做到效率最大化，经济冲击最小化。
Home-based manufacturers are not in the grip of the epidemic, says Mr. Wu, who communicates daily with several business owners about how to maximize efficiency and minimize economic shocks once work starts.
但是，这些想法都有待于复工的到来。
However, these ideas have yet to return to work.
即便能够复工，他们依然面临招工和原材料供应的保障问题。
Even if they are able to resume work, they still face problems in securing employment and supplies of raw materials.
据《财经》记者了解，相比于其他行业，制造业生产是有季节性特点的，以服装生产为例，服装企业当前应该准备秋冬服装，相关原材料也同步匹配供应，如果时间点过了就没有办法安排生产。
According to Caijing reporter, compared with other industries, manufacturing production is seasonal characteristics, garment enterprises should now prepare autumn and winter clothing, related raw materials are synchronized supply, if after the point of time there is no way to arrange production.
在当前特殊时期，制造业企业急于开工的必要性有多大？某疫情专家向《财经》记者表示，这个是要分行业，越是与民生联系越密切的企业，必要性越大，就越需要早开工。
How necessary is it for manufacturing companies to rush to work in these extraordinary times? An epidemic specialist told Caijing that this is a business that needs to be broken up, and the more it is necessary to connect with people's livelihood, the more it needs to start early.
当然也要根据当前的库存情况等因素来综合确定。
Of course, it should also be based on the current inventory situation and other factors to be determined.
对于劳动密集型产业，一旦开工务必要建立疫情防控管理体系，制定疫情防控应急预案和工作措施，明确负责人，特别是对于一些容易发生病毒传播的环境，如食堂、卫生间等该疫情专家指出，从目前看不同地区的情况可能不会同步，而是可能是逐渐恢复的，第一个时间节点是2月10日左右，因为是很多地区原定放假结束的时间，会有一些地区和企业尝试复工，第二个时间节点是2月20日左右，也就是从现在起，再增加一个潜伏期（两周），完全恢复正常生产，可能需要3个月左右，等新冠病毒感染疫情得到完全控制。
For labor-intensive industries, it is important to establish an epidemic prevention and control management system, formulate emergency plans and work measures for epidemic prevention and control, and specify who is responsible, especially for environments prone to the spread of the virus.
不过，具体情况很可能因为疫情发展和国家管控措施的改变而发生变化。
However, the specific situation is likely to change owing to the evolution of the epidemic and changes in national controls.
陈欢认为，从目前来看，新型冠状病毒肺炎的传染性还是很强的，国家希望尽快将疫情控制住，比较鼓励与疫情防控必需、群众生活必需以及其他涉及重要国计民生的相关企业要抓紧复工，以保障城市正常运行。
Chen Huan believes that the new coronavirus pneumonia is still very infectious, and the state hopes to bring the disease under control as soon as possible and encourage enterprises concerned with the need for epidemic prevention and control, the necessities of life of the people and other enterprises concerned with vital national interests to resume work so as to ensure the normal operation of the city.
对于其他类型的企业，会根据疫情的情况，逐步明确复工的条件。
For other types of enterprises, according to the epidemic situation, will gradually clarify the conditions for resumption of work.
“从近段时间来看，政府对企业复工的管控十分严格，其中包括制造业企业，什么时间能够真正开工还未明确。
"In the recent past, government regulation of the resumption of work has been very tight, including for manufacturing companies, and it is not clear when it will actually begin."
其实，这需要国家层面来客观评估这次疫情的控制情况。
In fact, this requires an objective assessment at the national level of how the epidemic is being controlled.
”“核心问题是大家对疫情的预期不明朗，不清楚什么时候能开工，什么时候员工能回来，开工之后有没有订单。
"The central issue is the uncertainty about what we expect from the outbreak, when we can start work, when we can get people back, and whether there will be orders when we start work."
”唐大杰说，判断宏观经济有一个信心指标，如果信心不足，制造业企业老板也可能将出空制造业资产，而代之以持币观望或者转移资产。
There is a measure of confidence in the macro economy that if confidence is low, manufacturing bosses may also empty manufacturing assets and replace them with money-holding or asset transfers, Mr. Tang said.
预防产业链转移，危中求机某外贸制造业企业主向《财经》记者表示，当前，不仅存在产业链向其他国家转移的现象，对他们而言，更担心境外客户是都将推迟复工定位不可抗拒因素而要求索赔。
At present, there is not only a shift of industrial chains to other countries, but also more concern that overseas customers will demand compensation because of the irresistible factors that delay the resumption of work, the entrepreneur of a foreign trade manufacturing industry told Caijing.
2月2日上午，中国贸促会向浙江湖州某汽配制造企业出具全国首份新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情不可抗力事实性证明书，之后，全国各地出现新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情不可抗力事实性证明书的相关报道。
On the morning of February 2, the China Trade Promotion Council (CCPTC) issued the first national certificate of force majeure for a new coronavirus pneumonia in a auto-distribution manufacturing enterprise in Huzhou, Zhejiang Province.
据了解，不可抗力事实性证明属于商事证明领域中的事实性证明行为，是指由中国贸促会及其授权的分、支会应申请人的申请，对与不可抗力有关的事实进行证明，出具后当事人可以部分或全部免除不履行、不完全履行和迟延履行合同的责任。
It is understood that the fact of force majeure is a fact-proving act in the field of commercial testifying, which means that the relevant facts related to force majeure are proved by the CCPIT and its authorized branch or branch at the request of the applicant, after which the parties may be partly or wholly exempted from liability for non-performance, incomplete performance and delay in performing the contract.
唐大杰认为，中国制造业尤其是外向型制造业从2018年起就已经非常难，大批企业订单缩减，个别以美国为主要出口的企业已经很难接到订单。
Mr. Tang says China's manufacturing sector, especially export-oriented manufacturing, has been hard-pressed since 2018, with business orders shrinking and some U.S.-based companies already struggling to get orders.
到了2018年—2019年，外向型制造业更为困难，一是不得不向东南亚转移工厂；二是面临结构性升级。
By 2018-2019, export-oriented manufacturing will be even more difficult, owing to the relocation of factories to Southeast Asia and structural upgrading.
葛志文在写给当地商会的建议上写到，“疫情对于出口型的工业品制造企业，影响、损失可是长远的，甚至是无法挽回的损失。
"The epidemic has long-term, if not irreversible, losses for export-oriented industrial manufacturers," Mr Ge wrote in a note to the local chamber of commerce.
因为现在的产业链都是全球供应，也就是说客户的供应商分布在不同国家（地区），而这次的疫情主要集中在中国大陆地区，其它国家（地区）的供应商基本不受影响，势必造成客户将主要订单甚至全部转向中国以外国家（地区）的供应商，即使疫情消失后，中国企业能逐步恢复正常生产，也很难把订单抢回来。
Because the current supply chain is global, meaning that the customers suppliers are located in different countries (regions), this time the epidemic is mainly concentrated in mainland China. Suppliers from other countries (regions) are largely unaffected, causing customers to shift major orders, or even all of them, to suppliers outside China.
中国制造（智造）企业自国家的改革开放政策以来，好不容易积累起的国际竞争力，‘中国造’已经在全球产业链中扮演着越来越重要的地位和影响力。
Since the reform and opening-up policy of the state, Chinese-made enterprises have been playing an increasingly important role in the global industrial chain, thanks to their hard-won international competitiveness.
保护‘中国造’及‘中国经济’也应该是这场防疫战的组成部分，政府各级部门在保证健康安全的基础上，让企业（特别是出口型制造企业）尽快正常复工。
The protection of 'Made in China' and 'China's economy' should also be an integral part of this epidemic prevention campaign. On the basis of ensuring health and safety, government departments at all levels will allow enterprises, especially those engaged in export-oriented manufacturing, to resume normal work as soon as possible.
”“企业不能完全靠国家救助，而是应该尽快自救，恢复正常生产。
"Companies cannot rely solely on state aid; they should help themselves as soon as possible and get back to normal production.
”葛志文向《财经》记者表示。
Mr Ge told Caijing.
目前，制造业占GDP总量约30%，尽管对国民生产总值的贡献退居第二，但是依然扮演举足轻重的角色，在制造业升级的关键阶段，市场主要分析认为，制造业因受疫情影响会变得异常艰难，最主要的问题是企业主和投资人的信心备受打击。
Manufacturing, which currently accounts for about 30% of GDP, continues to play a major role, despite its second-largest contribution to GDP. During the critical phase of manufacturing upgrading, major market analysis concluded that manufacturing would become extremely difficult due to the epidemic, with business owners and investor confidence being the main problem.
相比于“我国基础消费还在，中国的制造业大国地位还在”的观点，唐大杰的观点并不乐观：时过境迁，经济发展的基础与2003年不同，近几年处于下行通道；2019年，中国制造业急剧下坡。
Compared with the view that "China's basic consumption is still in place, China's manufacturing powerhouse status is still there," Tang's view is not optimistic: things have changed, the basis of economic development is different from that of 2003, and in recent years, there has been a sharp decline in Chinese manufacturing.
北京大学城市与环境学院教授、博士生导师，原国际地理联合会经济空间动态委员会指导委员王缉慈持有不一样的角度，她认为制造业艰难转型遇到了严重疫情，停工、缺工、物流不足，现金流短缺等困难正在考验着企业和产业集群。
Wang Jianzhi, a professor and doctoral supervisor at the Beijing University School of Cities and Environment and former member of the Steering Committee on Economic Space Dynamics of the International Geographical Union, believes that the difficult transformation of manufacturing is suffering from a severe epidemic, with work stoppages, absenteeism, inadequate logistics, and cash flow shortages that are testing clusters of companies and industries.
我相信，特殊疫情在某种程度可以转变为发展的机遇，例如在2003年非典之年，马云、刘强东就抓住了危机下的发展机遇。
I believe that special epidemics can, to some extent, be transformed into development opportunities. For example, in the SARS year of 2003, Ma Yun and Liu Qiangdong seized development opportunities under the crisis.
我相信在这次疫情中，有一批企业是有信心的，是憋足了劲儿要干一番事业的，疫情结束时这批企业会脱颖而出，呈现勃勃生机。
I believe that in this epidemic, a group of enterprises are confident, is suffocated to do a job, when the end of the epidemic will emerge, showing vitality.
王缉慈认为， “疫情之下，制造业即便停工也并非无事可做，例如有些工厂技术工人短缺，搭建网络平台，提供线上培训就是很好的选择，而不是坐以待毙。
"Manufacturing is not idle in the face of an epidemic," says Wang. "For example, there is a shortage of skilled workers in some factories.
”由于制造型企业复工的主要难题是来自各个省市的产业工人，技术、管理人员的返岗，疫情之下，制造业的劳动密集型产业特征亦引发行业思考。
The main challenge for manufacturing companies to get back to work is the return of industrial workers, technology and managers from all over the country.
李郇认为，本次疫情对制造业生产模式也许会产生影响，传统的人工雇佣形式值得制造业企业思考，相信未来自动化以及人工智能将会替代更多的劳动力，全自动化和智能化的工厂，更弹性的生产组织模式将会出现，我们不仅要看到疫情之下的冲击，还要看到它可能改变什么，更多的要看到对未来的生产组织模式的变化。
Xun believes that the epidemic may have an impact on manufacturing production patterns, that traditional forms of manual employment are worth thinking about, and that automation and artificial intelligence will replace more labor in the future, that fully automated and intelligent factories, and more flexible production organization patterns will emerge.
一份分析报告指出，“中国制造2025”的核心就是实现制造业智能升级，“人才为本”是其五大基本方针之一。
According to an analysis, the core of "Made in China 2025" is to upgrade manufacturing intelligence, with "talent-based" being one of its five basic guidelines.
一个不容回避的事实是：我国制造业要想由大变强，其中一大制约因素就是高技能人才的稀缺。
It is an inescapable fact that the scarcity of skilled personnel is one of the major constraints in the transformation of China's manufacturing industry from large to strong.
展望2020年，亿欧智库仍然坚定看好智能制造领域的发展机会，自主可控的工业母机和机器人、传统制造业的数字化转型、进一步推进的工业互联网、深入制造腹地的人工智能，中国智能制造将在新的历史时代里跑步前进。
Looking ahead to 2020, China's smart manufacturing will advance in a new historical era, with billions of think tanks firmly bullish on opportunities in intelligent manufacturing, autonomous controlled industrial machines and robots, the digital transformation of traditional manufacturing industries, a further industrial Internet, and artificial intelligence deep into the hinterland.
日前，北京、上海、苏州等地均出台支持中小企业的相关措施和意见。
Recently, Beijing, Shanghai, Suzhou and other places have introduced support for small and medium-sized enterprises and related measures and advice.
2月6日下午，广东省政府正式印发《关于应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情支持企业复工复产的若干政策措施》，从进一步加大保障企业复工复产工作力度、降低企业用工成本、减轻企业经营负担、加大财政金融支持、优化政府服务等关键环节，提出了5方面共20项政策措施，全力支持和推动受疫情影响的各类企业复工复产。
On the afternoon of February 6, the Guangdong Provincial Government officially issued the Policy Measures to Support Enterprises Resumption of Production due to the New Coronavirus Infection, from further intensifying efforts to ensure the resumption of business operations, reducing the cost of employing workers, reducing the burden on enterprises, increasing financial and financial support and optimizing government services.
2月7日，国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控机制举行新闻发布会，财政部副部长余蔚平表示，按照国务院会议最新决定，增加贴息资金规模，改按疫情防控重点保障企业实际获得贷款利率的50%给予贴息，确保企业实际融资成本低于1.6%。
On February 7, Vice Minister of Finance Yu Weiping said that in accordance with the latest decision of the State Council, we should increase the scale of the funds at the discount rate and give a discount of 50% of the actual interest rate of the enterprises according to the latest decision of the State Council.
2月8日凌晨，人民银行网站发布《财政部发展改革委工业和信息化部人民银行审计署关于打赢疫情防控阻击战强化疫情防控重点保障企业资金支持的紧急通知》，强调规范疫情防控重点保障企业名单管理，除与防控疫情直接相关的医疗企业，还包括生产重要生活必需品的骨干企业等。
In the early hours of February 8, the website of the People's Bank of the Ministry of Finance published the Emergency Notice of the Audit Office of the People's Bank of Industry and Informatization of the Ministry of Finance on winning the epidemic prevention and control war and strengthening the prevention and control of epidemic diseases.
并再次强调通过专项再贷款支持金融机构加大信贷支持力度。
Emphasis was once again placed on supporting financial institutions to increase their credit support through special refinancing.
在金融信贷方面，当前园区产业具有一定的优势，据吴建明介绍，园区与银行保持密切沟通，平台本身也会为企业进行调剂，缓冲资金压力。
In terms of financial credit, the current park industry has certain advantages, according to Wu Jianming, the park and the bank maintain close communication, the platform itself will be for enterprises to adjust, buffer the financial pressure.
而分散性制造业则还面临信贷压力。
Decentralized manufacturing, on the other hand, faces credit pressures.
另外，平台企业多是厂房按揭贷款，本身就有抵押物。
In addition, the platform enterprise is the factory building mortgage loan, own has the pledge.
王缉慈表示，创新集群是由创新型企业、科研机构、大学等创新主体构成的地方合作网络，是有利于企业自主创新的地方环境。
Wang said that innovation cluster is a local cooperative network composed of innovative enterprises, scientific research institutions, universities and other innovative subjects, which is conducive to the local environment for independent innovation.
在中国，曾经为世界制造了大量出口商品的低端产业集群中，中小企业分离、孤立，以及合作不足的问题比较普遍，在行业协会和技术创新平台的多年努力下，这些产业集群正在向创新集群升级，在产业转型中起了很大作用。
In China, where small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are widely separated, isolated and insufficiently cooperative in low-end industrial clusters that once produced large volumes of world exports, these clusters are upgrading to innovation clusters, which have played a significant role in industrial transformation, thanks to the efforts of industry associations and technological innovation platforms.
那么，在疫情之下，临时停工或暂时关闭企业和相关机构的大门，可能会使得中小企业陷入更严重的分离和孤立困境，王缉慈认为，“此时行业协会、商会、知识产权服务机构以及制定技术标准的机构等都需要发挥作用，促进集群内的企业共克时艰。
In an epidemic, then, temporary shutdowns or temporary closures of businesses and related institutions could lead to greater separation and isolation for SMEs. "Industry associations, chambers of commerce, intellectual property services agencies and technical standard-setting bodies all need to play a role in facilitating the sharing of difficult times by enterprises in the cluster," Wang said.
尤其是在疫情影响最大的劳动密集型的行业部门，中小企业应该也能够抱团取暖。
SMEs should also be able to stay warm, especially in the labour-intensive industrial sectors most affected by the epidemic.
”（实习生张琳宜、王雨婷对本文亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(Intern Zhang Lin Yi, Wang Yuting has also contributed to this article) Click here for more details about the outbreak: responsibility and accountability; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
制造企业谋划复工大计，期待3月开始安全自救。
Manufacturing companies plan to resume work and expect to start saving themselves safely in March.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "制造企业谋划复工大计，期待3月开始安全自救";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "全国除湖北以外地区的确诊病例数增速连日放缓，让部分制造企业看到了希望，基于疫情防控的逐步进展，安全复工自救计划也开始酝酿";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
