提升新冠肺炎核酸检测准确度， 专家建议系统比对试剂。
To improve the accuracy of Nucleic Acid Detection of Newcrown Pneumonia, experts recommend system comparison reagents.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
_新冠肺炎核酸检测阳性比率低，与病情发展阶段、采集流程是否规范、试剂盒的质量相关。
The positive rate of Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) test is low, which is related to the stage of disease development, the standardization of collection process and the quality of the kit.
为减少可能的“漏诊”，专家建议对不同厂商的试剂盒进行系统对比_文 |《财经》记者 孙爱民 言清王小编辑 | 王小近日在湖北省一家三甲医院ICU病区，在临床观察和CT检查中，一位危重症病人的症状符合感染新冠肺炎的情况，但重复做了4次核酸检测，才出现双阳性的结果。
To reduce possible missed diagnoses, experts recommend a systematic comparison of test kits with different manufacturers. Wang Xiaoxiang, a reporter with Caijing and Sun Aimin, recently reported that a critically ill patient showed signs of New Coronary Pneumonia (PCI) in an ICU unit at a triple-A hospital in Hubei Province.
类似情况也发生在刚刚去世的武汉市中心医院医生李文亮身上。
A similar situation occurred just after the death of Wuhan City Central Hospital doctor Li Wenliang body.
2月1日他在微博上发信息：“核酸检测结果阳性，尘埃落定，终于确诊了”。
On Feb. 1, he posted a message on Weibo: "Nucleic acid test results are positive, the dust settled, finally confirmed."
据了解，之前他已做过不止一次核酸检测，结果均为阴性。
It is understood that he has done more than once nucleic acid testing, the results are negative.
《新京报》2月8日也报道了一个类似案例，北京中日友好医院接诊了一位武汉来京的发热肺炎患者，经过四次核酸检测，最终确诊新冠病毒阳性，前三次咽拭子新冠病毒核酸检测均为阴性，甲流核酸检测阳性，曾以“重症甲流”收入院，2月5日确诊为新型冠状病毒感染肺炎。
A similar case was reported on Feb. 8 in the Beijing-China-Japan Friendship Hospital, where a Wuhan-based patient with fever pneumonia was finally diagnosed positive after four nucleic acid tests, the first three swabs tested negative for Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) positive and was admitted to the hospital on Feb. 5 for a new coronavirus infection.
“出现这种情况很正常。
"It's normal that this should happen.
”301医院检验科主任王成彬对《财经》记者分析，造成现在核酸检测阳性率不高主要有三种原因，一是病毒、病情发展阶段；二是采集流程与方式；三是检测试剂盒的问题。
Hospital director Wang Chengbin told Caijing News that there are three main reasons for the low positive rate of nucleic acid testing: first, the virus, the stage of the disease's development; second, the collection process and methods; and third, the problem of testing kits.
“李文亮医生刚开始检测呈阴性、没测到，可能是上述三个原因导致的。
"Dr Li Wenliang just started testing negative, did not detect, may be due to the above three reasons.
他整个就诊流程，哪出了问题，需要调查。
He went through the entire procedure, and what went wrong, needed to be investigated.
”王成彬说。
'he said.
尽管检出率有争议，但核酸检测仍然是当下新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的一个最重要的诊断和确诊手段。
Although the detection rate is controversial, nucleic acid detection is still the most important new coronavirus infection pneumonia diagnosis and diagnosis means.
北大第一医院感染疾病科主任王贵强在2月7日卫健委新闻发布会上称，早期发现病人、隔离病人，都有赖于核酸检测。
Early detection of patients and isolation of patients is dependent on nucleic acid testing, Wang Guiqiang, director of infectious diseases at Peking University No.1 Hospital, told a Wei health committee news conference on February 7.
我们现在鼓励，全国尤其像武汉地区，有条件的医疗机构开展核酸检测。
We now encourage qualified medical institutions throughout the country, especially in regions like Wuhan, to conduct nucleic acid testing.
现阶段，核酸检测的能力已经有很大的提升了，近期全国各地，核酸检测都不是问题了。
At this stage, nucleic acid detection capability has been greatly improved, recently throughout the country, nucleic acid testing is no longer a problem.
哪个环节会影响检测取样准确度？据了解，天津一家医院有疑似患者第一天检测结果为阴性，第二天或者第三天再检测，转而成阳性了。
Which link will affect the accuracy of the test sampling? Tianjin hospital is known to have a negative test results on the first day, the next day or the third test, instead of a positive.
王成彬分析认为，这可能是因为“患者在病情初期，病毒量少”。
Wang Chengbin analysis believes that this may be due to "patients in the early stages of the disease, the virus volume is small."
排毒时间也会影响样本质量，比如病人刚咳过痰，处理过呼吸道分泌物，病毒的含量可能较低，也有可能检测不到。
Detoxification times can also affect sample quality, such as patients who have just coughed up sputum and have treated respiratory secretions, which may or may not be detected.
有时，问题也可能出在取样上。
Sometimes, the problem may also lie in sampling.
病毒的遗传信息储存在核酸中，预示病毒特性的同时，也似一个“身份证”。
The virus's genetic information is stored in nucleic acids, signaling the nature of the virus while also acting as an "identity card."
新型冠状病毒进入人体的受体是血管紧张转化酶2，在人体的黏膜中有这种酶的细胞，因而病毒可借力于眼口鼻中的黏膜进入人体。
The new coronavirus enters the human body as a receptor known as angiotensin-converting enzyme-2, an enzyme found in the mucosa of the human body, so that the virus can enter the body through mucous membranes in the orifice and nose.
查新冠病毒需要做呼吸道样本取样，包括咽拭子、鼻咽拭子、鼻咽抽取物、痰液、呼吸道抽取物、支气管灌洗液、肺泡灌洗液等均可。
The virus requires a respiratory sample sample including swabs, nasopharyngeal swabs, nasopharyngeal extract, sputum, respiratory tract extract, bronchial lotion, alveolar lotion, etc.
就目前一线医生所言，新冠肺炎的核酸检测以咽拭子为主。
At present, according to first-line doctors, the detection of nucleic acid in new crown pneumonia is mainly pharyngeal swab.
就是采集的标本来自疑似病患的上呼吸道，即咽部的分泌物。
The specimens were collected from the upper respiratory tract, the secretion of the pharynx, of the suspected patient.
样本采集质量会严重影响检测结果。
The quality of sample collection can seriously affect the test results.
据悉，大约一周前，在武汉一家新冠肺炎定点医院，一位护士接到通知，她需要采集院内疑似患者的标本。
About a week ago, a nurse at Wuhan's Xinguan Pneumonia Dating Hospital was told she needed to collect specimens of suspected patients in the hospital.
作为呼吸科的护士，她对取样的流程并不陌生。
As a respiratory nurse, she was no stranger to the sampling process.
但面对新冠肺炎疑似患者，即使被防护装备包裹的很好，这位护士仍感一丝紧张，因为在她取样时，“病人得冲着自己呼气”。
But even if the protective gear was well wrapped, the nurse was slightly nervous when she took the sample, "the patient had to exhale at himself."
这个时候，她甚至不敢喘气。
At this time, she did not even dare to gasp.
据医院专业人士介绍：咽拭子采集的正确姿势是，用棉签擦拭两侧腭弓和咽、扁桃体的分泌物。
The correct posture for swabbing is to wipe off the palatal arch and pharyngeal and tonsil secretions with a cotton swab, hospital professionals said.
西北某省疾控中心实验室负责人告诉《财经》记者，有的护士在取样的时候比较害怕，可能什么都没采到，最后只有一点口水。
Some nurses were scared when they took samples. Maybe they didn't pick anything, only a little bit of saliva, the head of the CDC laboratory in a northwest province told Caijing.
咽拭子采样对采集人员要求高。
The pharyngeal swab sampling is very important to the collector.
“现在采集人员有的是医生、护士，水平参差不齐，他们平时采集操作并不多。
"There are some doctors and nurses, the level of uneven, they are not usually collected and operated.
有的采集位置不对，有的量不够，有的病人在采集时感到难受而配合得不好。
Some collection location is wrong, some quantity is insufficient, some patient feels uncomfortable in collecting and cooperates badly.
”王成彬说。
'he said.
经验不足时，动作难免走形。
When inexperience is lacking, movement is hard to avoid.
上述护士形容，操作中，也出现过取样样本没采集到有病毒的部分，检测结果为阴性，需要再重新取。
During the operation, the nurse described cases in which samples were taken that did not contain the virus. The results were negative and needed to be retaken.
危重症医学专家、中国医学科学院院长王辰院士在央视接受采访时说：“这个病有个特点，并不是所有患病者都能检测出核酸阳性。
"There is a characteristic of this disease and not all patients can detect nucleic acid positive," said Wang Chen, a critically ill medical expert and dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine in an interview with CCTV.
对于真是这个病的病人，也不过只有30%-50%的阳性率。
Only 30 per cent to 50 per cent of patients with the disease are infected.
通过（采集疑似病患）咽拭子的办法，还是有很多假阴性的。
By swabbing the pharynx, there are still a lot of false negatives.
”多种检测方法齐用，紧迫时刻不现实李文亮医生几次做核酸检测结果为阴性，至2月1日，“核酸检测结果阳性”的信息，在网上发酵，甚至在医疗圈的讨论也很激烈。
Several times Dr LiWenLiang negative nucleic acid test results, February 1, the "nucleic acid test results positive" information ferment on the Internet, and even the discussion in the medical community is intense.
2月3日，武汉大学中南医院影像科主任医师张笑春发布了一条主题为“别在迷信核酸检测”的朋友圈。
On February 3, Zhang Xiaochun, director of imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, released a group of friends on the theme "Don't superstitious nucleic acid testing."
她建议，CT应该作为目前新冠肺炎诊断的主要依据。
She suggested that CT should be used as the main basis for the current diagnosis of new crown pneumonia.
“武汉市家庭聚集性发病越来越多，而且大多起病隐匿，一次甚至多次核酸阴性，无任何临床症状。
"There are more and more cases of familial aggregation in Wuhan, and most of them are insidious, negative for one or more times, without any clinical symptoms.
如果采取家居留观的方式，必然会造成疫情进一步蔓延”。
If we adopt the way of home residence, it will inevitably cause further spread of the epidemic. "
按新冠肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版），在湖北省临床诊断病例中增加“疑似病例具有肺炎影像学特征者”，病例确诊采用“逆转录酶聚合酶链反应 （RT-PCR）”核酸检测与基因测序两种方式。
According to the new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment program (trial version 5), in Hubei Province, the clinical diagnosis of "suspected cases with characteristics of pneumonia imaging," the diagnosis of cases using "reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)" nucleic acid detection and gene sequencing.
“CT影像只能用来做初筛，不能拿来做最终的确诊。
"CT images can only be used for screening, not for final diagnosis.
”王成彬对《财经》记者分析，基因检测（PCR与测序）是金标准，相当于在偷窃案中直接抓到了小偷本人。
Wang told Caijing that genetic testing (PCR and sequencing) is the gold standard, equivalent to directly catching the thief himself in a theft case.
如果发烧、CT影像等临床症状的诊断与评估，加上两次核酸检测阴性，一般作为治愈出院的判断依据，“但也不能保证治愈出院后不会感染。
Diagnosis and assessment of clinical symptoms, such as fever and CT images, combined with negative nucleic acid tests twice, are generally used as a basis for treatment and discharge, "but there is no guarantee that they will not become infected after discharge
原则上自然转阳的可能性不大”。
In principle, it is unlikely that the sun will change naturally.
美国第一例新冠肺炎患者确诊，在确诊时采取了多个取样方法。
The first case of New Crown Pneumonia in the United States was diagnosed using multiple sampling methods.
1 月 20 日，美国疾病预防控制中心（CDC）确认，该患者的鼻咽和口咽拭子通过“实时逆转录酶聚合酶链反应（rRT-PCR）”检测为新冠病毒为阳性。
On January 20, the United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) confirmed that the patient's nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs had been tested positive for the new crown virus by "real-time reverse transcriptase chain reaction (rRT-PCR)."
鼻拭子和肺泡灌洗液也是采集样本的方法。
Nasal and alveolar lotions are also used to collect samples.
中日友好医院的发热肺炎患者病例，便是最终用肺泡灌洗液采集到样本检测结果呈现阳性。
The case of febrile pneumonia in the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital is the positive result of the sample collected with alveolar lotion.
当美国新冠肺炎患者治愈的消息刷屏时，研究者则很谨慎，治疗记录显示：在患者发病第 11 天和第 12 天采集的鼻咽和口咽样本显示出病毒载量下降趋势。
Researchers were cautious when news of a cure for pneumonia in the United States spread, with treatment records showing a downward trend in viral load in nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal samples taken on days 11 and 12 of a patient's illness.
发病第 12 天采集的口咽样本呈新冠病毒阴性。
Oral pharynx samples collected on day 12 were negative for the new crown virus.
研究者并未就此认定患者已经痊愈，而是同日期采集了患者的血清样本，等待进一步的RT-PCR核酸检测结果。
The researchers did not conclude that the patient had recovered, but instead took a serum sample from the patient on the same date, awaiting further RT-PCR nucleic acid testing.
1月24日著名医学期刊《柳叶刀》刊登的一篇文章，提到新冠肺炎武汉前期的41例病人，用的是血样检测。
An article in the January 24 issue of the famous medical journal Lancet mentions 41 cases of pre-Wuhan cases of new crown pneumonia tested for blood samples.
相对而言血清样本检测需要的时间长。
Serum samples take a relatively long time to detect.
肺泡灌洗液采集阳性率更高，但是操作流程过于繁杂，“液体注入人体、再抽出来，抽出来的时候容易喷出来、对采集人员造成污染。
The positive rate of alveolar lavage collection is higher, but the operation process is too complicated, "liquid injection into the human body, and then out, easy to extract when the collection of pollution.
所以现在一般还是采用咽拭子”。
So now, swabs are still commonly used.
王成彬分析。
Wang Chengbin analysis.
对武汉最初的疑似病例也曾采用了多种检测方法，1月9日的卫生部门通报显示，实验室采用了基因组测序、核酸检测、病毒分离等方法，对病人的肺泡灌洗液、咽拭子、血液等样本进行病原学检测。
Wuhan has also used a variety of detection methods for the initial suspected cases, January 9, the health department announced that the laboratory used genome sequencing, nucleic acid testing, virus isolation methods, patients alveolar lotion, pharynx swab, blood and other samples for etiology testing.
鉴于武汉等重灾区，现在当务之急是快速甄别出感染者，最大限度减少疑似病人在社会上造成更多的传播，使传染源得到有效控制。
In view of Wuhan and other hard-hit areas, it is now imperative to quickly identify the infected, minimize the suspected patients in the community to cause more transmission, so that the source of infection is effectively controlled.
因此，速度快、目前量也足的核酸检测，至关重要。
As a result, rapid, and currently sufficient, nucleic acid testing is essential.
截至目前，武汉市共有31家机构同时开展核酸检测，核酸单日样本检测能力由初期200份，提升到近期每日4000余份，最高可达日6000-8000份。
So far, 31 institutions in Wuhan have simultaneously carried out nucleic acid testing, and the ability to detect nucleic acid in a single day has increased from an initial 200 to more than 4,000 a day, with a maximum of 6,000-8,000 nucleic acid per day.
有的公司声称RT-PCR核酸检测时间已缩到1小时、2小时，“只要是RT-PCR方法，目前不可能缩短到1、2个小时”。
Some companies claim RT-PCR nucleic acid testing time has been reduced to one hour, two hours, "as long as RT-PCR method, it is not possible to shorten to 1, 2 hours."
王成彬说。
said Wang.
专业人士的解释是，RT-PCR核酸检测，就是提取出核酸基因片段进行扩增（PCR），让病毒的DNA/RNA复制变多，DNA每复制一个会发出一个荧光信号，仪器就会检测到荧光信号并进行记录，由于荧光强度和DNA含量成正比，通过软件进行数据处理最后就能间接的反应出病毒DNA的含量，最后化验报告单上就能看到患者体内病毒DNA的含量。
The professional interpretation is that RT-PCR nucleic acid testing, which extracts a DNA gene fragment for amplification (PCR), multiplies the DNA / RNA of the virus, sends out a fluorescent signal for each copy and the instrument detects and records the fluorescence signal.
检测试剂盒上有判断说明书，如果 PCR 扩增曲线不规则，只出来 1 个扩增点，即 1 个靶标，那么就都要发疑似报告。
If the PCR amplification curve is irregular and there is only one amplification point, that is, one target, the suspected report will be issued.
对于疑似病例，医生会建议重新采样检测。
For suspected cases, the doctor will recommend a re-sampling test.
为了提高准确度，医院会再次确认进行“双阳检测”。
In order to improve accuracy, the hospital will again confirm the "double-yang test."
目前，武汉各医院内的疑似病人，第二遍检测也已全部做完。
At present, Wuhan hospitals suspected patients, the second test has also been completed.
一拥而上的检测盒，有待对比规范现在有超过100家企业可生产检测试剂盒。
A swarms of test kits, waiting to be compared to the standard now has more than 100 enterprises can produce test kits.
而每个企业生产的试剂盒说明书都不一样：有的检测一个点，有的则是两个、三个点。
And each enterprise produces the kit instructions are not the same: some to detect a point, some are two, three points.
王成彬说：“这么多试剂盒厂商，有的企业之前都没做过试剂盒。
Wang Chengbin said: "So many kit manufacturers, some enterprises have not made a kit before.
质量问题不是担心不担心了，是肯定存在的。
The quality problem is not fear or worry, it is certain to exist.
”因而，有的医院现在同时用两三种试剂盒，如301医院，是用两种试剂盒。
As a result, some hospitals now use two or three test kits at the same time - 301 hospitals, for example.
第一种试剂检测如果弱阳性、或者医生拿不准，便再用第二种；或者两个试剂同时检测。
If the first reagent is weak positive, or if the doctor is unsure, the second reagent is used; or both reagents are tested simultaneously.
“试剂越多越好，这毋庸置疑，每家用5个才好呢。
"The more reagents, the better. There's no doubt about it. Five reagents per family.
但是现在这么忙，量这么大，还有成本的问题，医生穿着这么厚的防护服、一个试剂检测一般需要4、5个小时，用多种试剂不现实。
But there are costs involved in being so busy, so large, and the fact that it takes a doctor four or five hours to test a reagent in such a thick suit is impractical.
”王成彬分析。
"Wang Chengbin analysis.
核酸检测的流程是，从疑似病人处采集的样本，会被放入两层一次性密封袋内密封，置于样本转运箱后，由专人运送入检测实验室。
The flow of nucleic acid testing is that samples collected from suspected patients are sealed in two disposable sealed bags, placed in a sample transhipment container and transported by hand to a testing laboratory.
检测人员拿到样本后，要进行三个步骤，首先，检测样品处理，即灭活、取样需要 90 分钟；然后，进行核酸扩增（PCR），需要两个半小时；最后，写报告和上传报告。
After taking the sample, the tester goes through three steps. First, it takes 90 minutes to test the sample for inactivation and sampling; then, the nucleic acid amplification (PCR) takes two and a half hours; and finally, to write the report and upload it.
整个检测过程约需5 个小时。
The whole process takes about five hours.
这也正是一套防护服的使用时间。
This is precisely the use of a suit of protective clothing.
在这 5 个小时里，检测人员不能吃饭、喝水，也不能上厕所。
During these five hours, the inspectors were not allowed to eat, drink water or use the toilet.
为了提高准确率，一家西北某疾控中心实验室也是采用双试剂盒复核。
In order to improve the accuracy of a disease control center in the northwest laboratory is also used double-kit review.
“一种试剂是国家推荐的品牌，另一种是其自己实验室合成并已验证过的试剂”，该实验室负责人说，复核时，两种试剂盒检测结果均相同才可以，结果不同需重新复核检测。
"One reagent is a nationally recommended brand and the other is a proven reagent synthesized in its own laboratory," the lab director said.
不同品牌的试剂盒灵敏度和准确性仍有差异，上述西北某疾控中心实验室负责人说，不同地方采购的试剂盒厂家都不同，确实碰到了准确性和灵敏度有差异。
There are still differences in the sensitivity and accuracy of test kits for different brands, and the head of the laboratory at a disease control centre in northwest China said that the manufacturers of the kits purchased in different places were different and did encounter differences in accuracy and sensitivity.
他猜测，这与试剂原材料质量等有关。
He speculates that this is related to the quality of reagent raw materials, etc.
作为中华医学会检验医学分会主任委员，王成彬对中华医学会建议，应该把市场上的所有试剂做一次系统的比对。
Wang Chengbin, chairman of the Chinese Medical Association's branch of inspection medicine, suggested to the Chinese Medical Association that all reagents in the market should be systematically compared.
“国家卫健委也推荐了试剂，我们不知道这些推荐厂商有没有详细的试验数据作为支撑，当然，疾控中心应该也做了比对。
"The NHC also recommended reagents, and we don't know if they have detailed test data to back them up, of course, the CDC should do the same.
而且刚开始推荐时国内没几家厂商，现在厂商多了，疾控中心、卫健委可以委托专业机构来做系统的比对。
And just recommend when the domestic few manufacturers, now more, CDC, health care commission can entrust professional institutions to do systematic comparison.
”（辛颖、孙滔对此文亦有贡献）本文由树木计划作者【财经杂志】创作，独家发布在今日头条，未经授权，不得转载▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
This article, written by Caijing magazine and published by Caijing magazine, is in the headlines today. It is not allowed to reprint photos without permission. It is an original article by Caijing magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
提升新冠肺炎核酸检测准确度， 专家建议系统比对试剂。
To improve the accuracy of Nucleic Acid Detection of Newcrown Pneumonia, experts recommend system comparison reagents.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "提升新冠肺炎核酸检测准确度， 专家建议系统比对试剂";。
var msg _ title = & quot; RNA test accuracy at RNA upgrade, recommends that the system compare with RNA;;
var msg_desc = "新冠肺炎核酸检测阳性比率低，与病情发展阶段、采集流程是否规范、试剂盒的质量相关。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Low Nucleic Acid Testing Rate for New Crown Pneumonia (Nucleic Acid Test), associated with stage of disease progression, standardized collection process, and quality of kit.
为减少可能的“漏诊”，专家建议对不同厂商的试剂盒进行系统对比";。
; To reduce possible missed visits, experts recommend systematically comparing & quot; & quot; with different manufacturers of test kits.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
