李铁：大规模人口流动和疫情的体制关联。
Li Tie: The institutional link between large-scale population movements and epidemics.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 李铁。
Author Li Tie.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
_在疫情危机发生的时刻，我们应该反思的，是应当及早强化推进户籍管理制度改革和外来人口市民化的进程，解决人口大规模流动带来的社会问题_图/法新文 | 李铁新型冠状病毒引发的全国性防疫之战，面临的最大挑战就是传播性问题。
At the time of the outbreak of the epidemic, we should reflect on the need to strengthen the reform of the household registration system and the process of democratizing the migrant population at an early date so as to solve the social problems caused by mass migration.
对于疫情最严重的武汉来说，面临着两个难以回避的事实，一是大约500万外人口离开武汉，其中绝大部分是外来务工就业人口；二是正值春节期间，处于返乡度假和节后回城的高峰。
Wuhan, the worst hit by the epidemic, faces two inescapable facts. One is that some five million people have left Wuhan, the vast majority of whom are migrant workers.
由此可见，中国特殊的人口流动状况，是导致这次抗疫风险加剧的一个重要原因。
Therefore, China's special population flow situation is leading to the increase in the risk of an important reason for the epidemic.
巨量人口流动带来的风险我们还要注意到一组数据，武汉市大约有1500万的管理人口，常住人口是1100万，户籍人口是906万。
We should also note a set of figures showing that Wuhan City has a population of about 15 million administrators, a resident population of 11 million and a household registration population of 9.06 million.
这样就等于我们将面对三个口径的人口统计数据，管理人口、常住人口和户籍人口。
This would mean that we would have to face three calibres of population statistics to manage the population, the resident population and the household population.
其中特别要注意的是管理人口，在很多城市都往往超过了常住人口。
Of particular note is the management of the population, which in many cities often exceeds the resident population.
例如，深圳市的户籍人口约500万，常住人口突破1300万，而号称的管理人口超过了2000万。
For example, Shenzhen has a resident population of about 5 million, a resident population of over 13 million and a management population of more than 20 million.
基于上面的数据，可以非常清楚地看出，真正带来流动性压力的并不是户籍人口，而是所有的外来人口。
Based on the above data, it is very clear that the real pressure for mobility is not on the household population, but on the foreign population as a whole.
每年的春运是中国人口迁徙的高峰，其规模也堪称世界之最。
The annual Spring Festival transportation is the peak of China's migration, and its scale is also the world's most.
春运持续40天左右的人口迁徙和流动，以往要面对的只是交通基础设施供给严重短缺的压力。
In the past, the migration and migration, which lasted about 40 days, had to face only severe shortage of transportation infrastructure.
但是如果在这个时期发生了任何疫情，大规模的人员流动不仅会给疫区带来巨大压力，而且也会给全国几乎所有城市和农村带来压力。
However, in the event of any outbreak during this period, the massive movement of people would not only put enormous pressure on the affected areas, but also on almost all cities and villages in the country.
按照武汉市1月26日公布的数据，因为春节和疫情的影响，有500多万人离开武汉。
More than five million people have left Wuhan due to the Spring Festival and the outbreak, according to figures released by Wuhan on January 26.
这500万人当中，绝大部分属于春节返乡的人群。
Of the five million people, the vast majority belong to the Spring Festival homecoming crowd.
他们会回到自己的家乡，也就是户籍所在地和父母居住地，而他们的家乡遍布全国各地，由此带来的社会恐慌心理也是全国性的。
They would return to their home towns, where they lived and where their parents lived, and the social panic that would ensue would be national.
从疫情传播态势看，也已经在各地引发连锁性反应。
From the spread of the epidemic situation, has also triggered a chain reaction everywhere.
人口流动不仅会造成新冠状病毒疫情在全国各地的扩散，通过春节后的大规模返城，还可能会引发新的疫情危机。
Population movement will not only cause the new coronavirus epidemic to spread throughout the country, through the Spring Festival after the large-scale return to the city, may also trigger a new outbreak of crisis.
正是因为人口大规模流动性就业的特点，使得中国防控疫情的压力远超任何国家。
It is precisely because of the characteristics of large-scale and mobile employment that China is under greater pressure to control the epidemic than any other country.
也就可以理解，在这种形势下，采取全国总动员的方式，防止疫情蔓延，各种措施都有其合理之处。
Understandably, in this situation, there are legitimate reasons for adopting a national mobilization approach to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
好在中国的体制动员力是世界上最强的，我们不仅有完善的社会组织治理体系，而且还会利用现有科技手段，采取最有效的方式来进行防疫总动员。
Fortunately, China's institutional mobilization is the strongest in the world. Not only do we have a well-established system of governance for social organizations, but we also use existing scientific and technological means to carry out general mobilization for epidemic prevention in the most effective way.
但是仍要看到，因为面临巨量人口流动的压力，也会因此而付出巨大的经济和社会成本。
However, it should be noted that there are enormous economic and social costs associated with the pressures of massive population movements.
截至2019年，中国总人口达到了14亿，其中城镇户籍人口仅为6亿，被纳入城镇常住人口统计的农村人口为2.8亿其中跨乡镇流动就业的人为1.7亿。
By 2019, China's total population had reached 1.4 billion, of which only 600 million were urban residents, and the rural population included in the resident urban population was 280 million, of whom 170 million were mobile workers across townships.
此外，还有所谓管理人口中的旅游、探亲、差旅等原因的各类流动性人口，再加上8000万城镇间流动就业人口，这样算起来全国的流动性人口可能超过3亿。
In addition, there is the so-called itinerant population for reasons of tourism, family visits, travel, etc. among the population, which, together with 80 million urban migrants, makes the country's mobile population likely to exceed 300 million.
对武汉来说，虽然这次春节期间外出的流动性人口大约500万，但是对湖北省来说，流动性人口会高于500万。
For Wuhan, although the mobile population during the Spring Festival is about five million, for Hubei Province, the mobile population will be more than five million.
正是因为这种人口的流动性导致疫情从武汉扩大到全国。
It is this population mobility that has led to the spread of the epidemic from Wuhan to the whole country.
由于抗疫总动员的涉及面如此之广，现在还无法计算此次疫情造成了多大的经济损失，有研究说可达数万亿之多。
Because of the scale of the epidemic's mobilization, it is not yet possible to calculate the magnitude of the economic damage caused by the epidemic, some studies say hundreds of billions of dollars.
当前面临更为严重的问题是，大量服务型中小企业遭遇严重危机。
An even more serious problem is the serious crisis affecting a large number of service-oriented SMEs.
无论是城市服务业，还是刚刚处于上升期的旅游业，或者是所有的相关产业，都正经历着可能长达近1个月的关门期，相应的资金和成本的压力都是它们难以承受的。
Whether it is urban services, tourism, which is just rising, or all related industries, which are experiencing a period of shutdown that can last for nearly a month, the corresponding pressure on capital and costs is unbearable.
此外，各级政府为疫情防控付出的财政成本，包括人力、物资等各项资源的支出，也会是一个巨量数字。
In addition, the financial cost of disease prevention and control at all levels of government, including spending on human, material and other resources, will be enormous.
还有，疫情延长很可能会对国际经济交往和贸易产生影响，也是可能要面临的重要风险。
Moreover, the prolongation of the epidemic is likely to have an impact on international economic exchanges and trade and is an important risk to be faced.
虽然我们有能力动员国家力量，可以在尽可能短的时间内战胜这次疫情，但是将要面对的经济社会成本也是无法回避的。
Although we are capable of mobilizing national efforts to overcome the epidemic in the shortest possible time, the economic and social costs to be faced are unavoidable.
我们还要面临着诸多未知问题，比如，这些大规模流动性的就业人口在春节返城后会带来什么样的影响？是否还要采取更多措施，防止流动人口返城就业过程中可能带来的疫情传播风险？毕竟，北京可能有近800万返城人口，上海估计有900多万人，深圳近千万人，而广东省有2000多万人，全国则有上亿返城人口。
We still have to face a lot of unknown problems, such as the impact of the return of these large-scale and mobile working population to urban areas after the Spring Festival? After all, Beijing may have nearly 8 million people returning to urban areas, Shanghai an estimated 9 million people, Shenzhen nearly 10 million people, and Guangdong Province more than 20 million people and hundreds of millions of people back to the city.
我们还会为此付出多少人力、物力和资金的成本？我们要反思疫情在人口流动性最为广泛的传播过程中产生的负面压力，同时是否还要反思，近些年，在控制人口流动性压力过程中有什么样的体制壁垒尚未打破，以至于我们付出了如此巨大的经济社会成本。
How much more labor, material, and financial costs will we have to pay to reflect on the negative pressures of the epidemic on the most mobile parts of the population, and to reflect on what institutional barriers have not been broken in recent years to contain the pressures of population mobility, at such enormous economic and social cost.
是时候反思城市落户政策了中国是世界上人口流动性就业规模最大的国家。
The time has come to rethink the policy of urban settlement. China is the world's most mobile country in terms of population and employment.
这一方面当然是基于中国人口众多，但是更重要的原因是户籍管理制度改革严重滞后，导致了人口的就业和定居出现了两栖行为。
This is, of course, based on China's large population, but the more important reason is that the reform of the household registration system lags far behind, resulting in amphibious behaviour in the employment and settlement of the population.
每年人口流动性放大最典型的例证就是春运。
The most typical example of annual population mobility amplification is spring transportation.
长期以来，中国一直享受所谓的人口红利，就是利用外来人口就业的优势，同时限制或控制外来人口定居落户，减轻各个地方城市政府公共服务财政支出的压力。
For a long time, China has enjoyed the so-called demographic dividend, which is to take advantage of the employment of the foreign population while limiting or controlling the settlement of the migrant population and reducing the pressure on the public service expenditures of local urban governments.
虽然近期中央采取了一系列的政策措施，希望更大规模人口的城市能放开或者放宽外来人口落户的限制。
Although the central government has recently adopted a series of policy measures, the hope is that the larger population of cities can liberalize or ease the immigration restrictions.
但是因为种种利益原因，在人口流入地区，不仅仅在大城市，即使在小城镇也难以落实。
But for a variety of reasons, it is difficult to implement them not only in large cities, but even in small towns, in areas of migration.
可以说，如果我们没有遇到这种重大的疫情，可能还没有想到会付出如此巨额的成本，会给即期财政支出和未来的经济发展带来巨大的风险和负担。
It can be said that if we had not experienced such a major epidemic, we might not have expected to incur such a huge cost, which would have placed a huge risk and burden on immediate fiscal expenditure and future economic development.
经历过17年前的SARS和这次的新型冠状病毒疫情，我们是否要反思，如何从根本上通过相关的改革政策来加强城市治理，来避免因一个城市发生的问题而引发全国大面积的连锁反应？防止因局部危机或因人口流动而导致全国性的危机？痛定思痛，是时候反思人口流入城市的落户政策了。
After 17 years of SARS and the new coronavirus outbreak, is it time to reflect on how to strengthen urban governance through relevant reform policies so as to avoid a national ripple effect caused by a local crisis or a national crisis caused by population movements?
可以假设一下，如果解决了长期在人口流入城市就业的外来人口的落户问题——即使不在大城市主城区，而是在周边小城市和小城镇落户，就会减少多少人口流动性的社会压力呢？那么对解决当地疫情可能引发的其他社会性危机会减少多少负担？会对全国其他的城市和地区又会减轻多少压力呢？应该说，无论从本地，还是全国出发，都会大大降低经济社会成本。
Assuming that the settlement of long-term urban migrants - even if not in the major urban areas of major cities, but in smaller cities and towns around the country - would reduce the burden of other social crises that might arise from the epidemic, and how much less pressure would it have on other cities and regions of the country?
所谓“出来混，终究是要还的”。
The so-called "come out mixed, after all want to pay back".
因为各种利益以及制度性原因，导致人口流入地区迟迟不愿意落实各项户籍管理制度改革的政策。
Various interests, as well as institutional reasons, have led to delays in the implementation of policies to reform the household registration system in the areas of migration.
对于人口流入地区，如果能把流动性就业的人口从农民工市民化和放宽放开落户限制的角度安置好，即便疫情已经发生，无疑也会从根本上降低由于人口大规模流动带来的社会风险。
For migrant-populated areas, if the migrant population can be resettled from the perspective of urbanization and liberalization restrictions, even if the outbreak has occurred, will undoubtedly reduce the social risks associated with large-scale population movements.
需要看到，如果我们此时不去反思中央长期以来强调的各项户籍管理制度改革政策的落实，还是站在本地区利益角度进行各种消极抵制，那么与疫情类似的这种社会危机迟早还是会发生。
At this point, if we do not reflect on the implementation of the reform policies of the household registration system, which has long been emphasized by the central government, or resist passively from the point of view of the interests of the region, a social crisis similar to the epidemic will occur sooner or later.
而付出的经济成本和社会成本一定会超出我们及早落实户改和市民化政策所需要承担的成本。
And the economic and social costs will surely outweigh the costs of early implementation of household reform and municipal policies.
这不仅是一个城市和地区的问题，而且更是全国性的问题。
This is not only a city and region problem, but also a national problem.
在危机发生的时刻，我们应该反思的不是如何头痛医痛、脚痛医脚，更是要通过吸取这次大规模的疫情传播的教训，及早强化推进户籍管理制度改革和外来人口市民化的进程，解决人口大规模流动带来的社会问题。
In times of crisis, we should reflect not only on the pain of medical treatment, but also on the lessons learned from this large-scale spread of the epidemic, strengthen the reform of the household registration system and the process of the urbanization of foreign populations, and solve the social problems caused by large-scale population movements.
只有稳定和减少人口的流动规模，才会大大降低疫情和危机的风险。
Only by stabilizing and reducing the scale of population movements can the risk of epidemics and crises be significantly reduced.
（作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is a chief economist at the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho.) Click here to find out more about the epidemic report responsibilities and services; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：大规模人口流动和疫情的体制关联。
Li Tie: The institutional link between large-scale population movements and epidemics.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：大规模人口流动和疫情的体制关联";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Li iron: Institutional linkage to and servicing of massive population movements and epidemics;;
var msg_desc = "在疫情危机发生的时刻，我们应该反思的，是应当及早强化推进户籍管理制度改革和外来人口市民化的进程，解决人口大规模流动带来的社会问题";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
