四部委“加码”企业扶持：增加贴息资金规模，税收优惠指引将出。
Four ministries of "code" enterprise support: increase the scale of interest-bearing funds, tax concessions guidelines will be out.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经五月花。
The following article comes in May.
Author 财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
财经五月花。
May Flowers of Finance.
这是《财经》杂志“资本与金融”领域的垂直公号，聚焦前瞻、深度的金融制度与市场报道。
This is Caijing magazine "Capital and Finance" field of vertical public, focusing on the forward-looking, in-depth financial system and market reporting.
。
.
_按照国务院会议最新决定，增加贴息资金规模，改按疫情防控重点保障企业实际获得贷款利率的50%给予贴息，确保企业实际融资成本低于1.6%_文 |《财经》记者 张颖馨编辑 | 袁满更大范围支持新型冠状病毒感染肺炎（下称“新型肺炎”）疫情防控、纾困小微企业的措施，正在逐步出台并落地。
In accordance with the latest decision of the State Council meeting, measures are being taken to increase the scale of the interest-rate subsidy to 50% of the actual loan interest rate, and to ensure that the actual cost of financing is less than 1.6%.
2月7日上午10时，国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控机制举行新闻发布会，财政部、中国人民银行、国家税务总局、中国银行保险监督管理委员会负责人就支持疫情防控的相关措施等内容进行说明。
At 10 a.m. on February 7, the State Council held a press conference on the joint control mechanism for pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection. The heads of the Ministry of Finance, the People's Bank of China, the State Administration of Taxation and the Insurance Regulatory Commission of the Bank of China explained the measures taken to support the prevention and control of the disease.
《财经》记者注意到，在政策力度不断“加码”之下，此前不少企业反馈的人员成本较高、资金流紧张等问题正在逐步缓解。
Caijing reporter noted that under the policy intensity is constantly "increased", many enterprises before the feedback of higher personnel costs, funding flows and other problems are gradually easing.
与此同时，若疫情持续，市场对下一步是否继续加大中小企业扶持力度、财政空间扩容（预算赤字率、专项债、特别国债）、货币政策如何发力等颇为关注。
At the same time, if the epidemic persists, the market is concerned about whether to continue to strengthen SME support, fiscal space expansion (budget deficit ratio, special debt, special government debt), and the strength of monetary policy.
税收优惠政策指引将出炉就资金保障和政策保障方面所采取的措施，财政部副部长余蔚平在发布会上表示，在资金保障方面，截至2月6日下午5点，各级财政共安排疫情防控资金667.4亿元，实际支出284.8亿元。
In terms of financial security, as of 5 p.m. on February 6, financial resources at all levels had allocated 66.74 billion yuan for epidemic prevention and control, with the actual outlay of 28.48 billion yuan, Vice Minister Yu Weiping said in a statement.
其中，中央财政共安排170.9亿元。
Of these, 17.09 billion yuan was allocated from the central treasury.
在政策保障方面，截至2月6日，财政部会同有关部门已经出台十余条财税支持措施。
As of February 6, the Ministry of Finance, together with relevant departments, had issued more than a dozen fiscal support measures.
主要包括：对确诊患者个人负担费用实行财政兜底，中央财政补助60%；对捐赠用于疫情防控的进口物资免征进口关税和进口环节增值税、消费税；中央财政对疫情防控重点保障企业给予贴息支持等措施。
The central government provides financial support to 60 percent of the expenses incurred by individual patients, exempts imported materials donated for disease prevention and control from import duties and VAT and excise taxes on import links, and gives preferential interest support to key enterprises for disease prevention and control.
值得注意的是，2月5日召开的国务院常务会议决定，在前期针对疫情防控已出台各方面措施的基础上，再推出一批支持保供的财税金融政策。
It is noteworthy that the State Council, at its executive meeting on 5 February, decided to launch a series of fiscal and fiscal policies to support the provision of financial support on the basis of the measures already put in place for the prevention and control of the epidemic.
包括：自1月1日起，对防控重点物资生产企业扩大产能购置设备允许税前一次性扣除，全额退还这期间增值税增量留抵税额；对运输防控重点物资和提供公共交通、生活服务、邮政快递收入免征增值税等。
Including: from January 1, the prevention and control of key material production enterprises to expand the capacity of the purchase of equipment to allow a one-time deduction, the full refund of value-added tax increment tax for the period; transportation control and control of priority goods and the provision of public transportation, domestic services, postal express revenue exemption.
余蔚平同时透露，对受疫情影响较大的比如交通运输、餐饮、住宿、旅游、快递、民航等行业给予增值税、企业所得税等税费的优惠，帮助企业渡过难关。
Yu also revealed that enterprises affected by the epidemic, such as transportation, catering, accommodation, tourism, express delivery, civil aviation and other taxes and charges of value-added tax, enterprise income tax, to help enterprises tide over difficulties.
此外，按照国务院会议最新决定，增加贴息资金规模，改按疫情防控重点保障企业实际获得贷款利率的50%给予贴息，确保企业实际融资成本低于1.6%。
In addition, according to the latest decision of the State Council meeting, the scale of interest-rate subsidy funds will be increased to 50% of the actual loan interest rate for enterprises under the key disease prevention and control measures, thus ensuring that the actual cost of financing enterprises is less than 1.6%.
《财经》记者注意到，此前包括北京、上海、苏州、山东、四川等省市均已先后出台针对中小企业的纾困措施，涉及加大金融支持、稳定职工队伍、减轻企业负担等方面内容。
The Caijing reporter noted that the provinces and municipalities including Beijing, Shanghai, Suzhou, Shandong and Sichuan have successively introduced relief measures for small and medium-sized enterprises, involving greater financial support, stabilizing the workforce and reducing the burden on enterprises.
“确实在给我们‘减负’，比如税费和社保延缴、房租减免，与员工协商一致调整薪资等等，这些都是之前我们呼吁并希望解决的问题。
"It's really reducing our burdens - taxes and Social Security contributions, rent waivers, agreed salary adjustments with employees - these are some of the issues we have called for and wanted to address."
”多名中小企业负责人直言，多部门政策出台，可以说是当下困境中的一场“及时雨”。
Many heads of small and medium-sized enterprises say that the introduction of multisectoral policies can be said to be a "timely rain" in the current predicament.
提及上述政策的具体落地，余蔚平表示，目前，财政部会同有关部门正在陆续制发操作文件。
Referring to the specific landing of the above policy, Yu said that at present, the Ministry of Finance together with the relevant departments are producing operating documents.
下一步，特别是针对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的影响，及时研究解决企业反映的突出问题，坚决把该减的税减到位，把降的费降到位，持续发挥减税降费的政策效应。
The next step, especially in the light of the impact of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, is to promptly study and solve the outstanding problems reported by the enterprises, resolutely reduce the tax reduction in place, bring down the cost of the reduction, and continue to exert the policy effect of reducing the rate of tax reduction.
“我们即将发布支持疫情防控税收优惠政策指引。
"We are about to issue tax incentives to support epidemic prevention and control.
同时，为了保证落实到位，对此前已经有的全国税务机关纳税服务规范和税收征管操作规范相应地进行调整和优化。
At the same time, in order to ensure the implementation of the previous national tax authorities to regulate the tax services and tax collection operation norms to adjust and optimize accordingly.
”税务总局总审计师兼货物和劳务税司司长王道树在新闻发布会上透露。
Wang Daoshu, the chief auditor and head of the goods and services division at the General Administration of Taxation, disclosed at the news conference.
金融扶持力度“加码”自疫情发生以来，金融系统在支持疫情防控中所做的工作亦备受关注。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the work of the financial system in supporting the prevention and control of the epidemic has also attracted much attention.
人民银行副行长、外汇局局长潘功胜在会上表示，2月3日和4日，人民银行超预期开展公开市场操作，两天累计投放流动性1.7万亿元，保持疫情防控特殊时期银行体系流动性的合理充裕。
On February 3 and 4, the People's Bank of China (PBOC) launched an open-market operation with a cumulative liquidity of 1.7 trillion yuan over two days to maintain a reasonably adequate liquidity supply to the banking system during special periods, said Pan Gongsheng, vice president of the People's Bank of China and head of the foreign exchange bureau.
同时，货币市场、债券市场、股票市场、外汇市场等金融市场如期开市，并平稳运行。
At the same time, financial markets such as money market, bond market, stock market and foreign exchange market opened as scheduled.
再者，强化对疫情防控的金融支持，保障民生和支持实体经济的稳定发展。
Furthermore, financial support for disease prevention and control should be strengthened to ensure people's livelihood and support the stable development of the real economy.
人民银行设立3000亿元专项再贷款，实施优惠贷款利率，加强对重要医用、生活物资重点企业的金融支持。
The People's Bank of China has set up 300 billion yuan in special refinancing loans to implement preferential loan rates and strengthen financial support for key medical and domestic enterprises.
另据银保监会副主席周亮透露，此次银行保险业对于生产医疗器械、药品、防护服、口罩、消毒用品的企业，重点是疫苗的研发企业，对他们的融资需求主动上门去服务，提供优惠的利率和专项贷款额度。
According to Zhou Liang, vice-chairman of the CBRC, the banking and insurance industry is focusing on vaccine R & D companies that produce medical devices, drugs, protective clothing, masks and disinfectant products.
初步统计，对这方面的重点信贷投放累计已达到2100多亿元。
Preliminary statistics show that the total amount of key loans in this regard has reached 210 billion yuan.
疫情发生后，多行业遭受冲击，多名中小微企业负责人均告诉《财经》记者，由于需要支出员工工资等固定成本，但公司正常经营因疫情影响无法恢复，导致无营业收入。
After the outbreak, the multi-industry impact, a number of MSMEs leaders told Caijing, because of the need to spend fixed costs, such as staff wages, but the normal operation of the company could not recover due to the impact of the epidemic, resulting in no operating income.
当前，资金周转困难，若无法及时解决现金流问题，恐难继续支撑。
Current, fund turnover is difficult, if cannot solve cash flow problem in time, be afraid to continue supporting.
《财经》记者注意到，中小微企业资金困境正被相关监管所关注。
"Caijing" reporters noted that the financial plight of MSMEs is being concerned about the relevant regulations.
此前的2月1日，人民银行、财政部、银保监会、证监会、外汇局等五部门联合印发《关于进一步强化金融支持防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的通知》，指出对受疫情影响严重的企业到期还款困难的，可予以展期或续贷；通过适当下调贷款利率、增加信用贷款和中长期贷款等方式，支持相关企业战胜疫情灾害影响等。
Earlier on February 1, the People's Bank of China, the Ministry of Finance, the CBRC, the CSRC and the SAFE jointly issued the Notice on Further Strengthening Financial Support to Prevent and Control the Infection of Coronavirus Pneumonia.
周亮亦在发布会上表示，受到这次疫情的影响，不少小微企业出现了一些暂时性的困难，银保监会指导银行、保险机构采取了多种帮扶措施，比如很多大行和股份制银行对湖北省内的小微企业贷款利率在去年的基础上再次下调0.5个百分点。
The banking regulator has instructed banks and insurance companies to take a variety of supportive measures, such as a further 0.5 percentage point cut in interest rates on loans to micro and small enterprises in Hubei Province from last year, said Zhou Liang at the press conference.
而且不少银行还为受疫情影响的小微企业增加了专项的信贷额度，对逾期的利息给予了减免。
In addition, many banks have increased special lines of credit for micro and small enterprises affected by the epidemic, granting relief for overdue interest payments.
北京某餐饮企业负责人告诉《财经》记者，自上述政策发布后，至少10家以上的银行向自己抛出了“橄榄枝”，目前正在洽谈具体细节。
The head of a restaurant in Beijing told Caijing that since the policy was announced, at least 10 banks have offered themselves olive branches and details are being negotiated.
希望得到更多的贷款利率优惠。
Hope to get more favorable loan interest rate.
《财经》记者注意到，上述提及的财政贴息贷款目前主要是针对疫情防控重点保障企业。
Caijing reporter noted that the above-mentioned financial discount loans are mainly for the prevention and control of the epidemic focus on the protection of enterprises.
有部分银行业从业人士直言，考虑到财政能力亦存在有限之处，目前首要任务肯定是保障与疫情防控相关的企业。
Some bankers say that, given the limits of financial capacity, the priority must be to protect companies involved in disease prevention and control.
但下一步可考虑出台具体标准，将财政贴息贷款等政策延伸至部分受影响较大的行业或企业。
However, the next step could be to consider specific criteria for extending policies such as fiscal interest-bearing loans to some of the more affected industries or enterprises.
正如硬币的两面，疫情之下，银行提供贷款在增加的同时，是否会导致自身的不良贷款攀升？周亮表示， 2019年普惠性小微企业的贷款不良率是3.22%，比2018年下降了近1个百分点。
Just as on both sides of the coin, will the increase in bank lending lead to a rise in their own non-performing loans under the epidemic? Zhou Liang said the bad loan ratio for inclusive micro and small businesses was 3.22% in 2019, down nearly 1 percentage point from 2018.
此次疫情对小微企业，特别是住宿、旅游、餐饮等这类小微企业造成了一定的影响，但总量不会太大。
The epidemic has had an impact on micro and small enterprises, particularly accommodation, tourism and catering, but the total will not be too large.
如湖北武汉可能受的影响更严重一点，其他地区受春节因素的影响和防控措施的影响，不良率预计会有所上升，从整个金融体系运行情况来看，去年共化解了2.3万亿不良资产，小微企业的不良占比比较小。
For example, Wuhan, Hubei Province, may be more seriously affected, other areas are affected by Spring Festival factors and control measures are expected to rise, the overall financial system in the performance of 2.3 trillion non-performing assets last year, small and micro enterprises accounted for a relatively small percentage of the bad.
“另一方面，银行的拨备覆盖率达到了180%以上，有充足的资源来应对不良的上升。
"Banks, on the other hand, have a reserve coverage of more than 180 per cent and have sufficient resources to cope with a negative rise.
经济和金融实体经济的关系，大家还是要从长远来看。
The relationship between the economy and the real economy should be viewed in the long run.
疫情是暂时的，从中国经济的韧性和回旋余地来看，影响很快就会过去，不会对整个金融造成大的影响。
The epidemic is temporary, and given the resilience and leeway of China's economy, the impact will soon be over, with little impact on the entire financial sector.
”周亮强调。
Zhou Liang stressed.
后续政策空间多大？处在经济下行周期，叠加疫情影响，市场担忧，今年一季度经济下滑速度可能会加快。
How much policy space to follow? In the economic downturn cycle, the cumulative impact of the epidemic, market fears, the first quarter of this year may accelerate the pace of economic decline.
对此，潘功胜表示，疫情对我国经济的影响是阶段性、暂时的，可能会对中国第一季度的经济活动造成扰动，但在疫情得到控制之后，经济会较快地回到潜在产出的附近。
In response, Pan Gongsheng said the epidemic's impact on China's economy was gradual and temporary, and could disrupt economic activity in the first quarter, but that the economy could return relatively quickly to near potential output after the outbreak is contained.
“看看历史上的2003年非典，非典时期扰动的是当年二季度的经济增长，三季度经济迅速出现了反弹。
"Looking at the history of SARS in 2003, what disturbed the SARS period was economic growth in the second quarter of that year and the economy rebounded rapidly in the third quarter.
所以，我们认为疫情缓解以后，中国经济将会迅速企稳，并且前期推迟的消费和投资会有释放，中国的经济会出现补偿性的恢复。
So we think that after the epidemic subsides, the Chinese economy will stabilize quickly, and the consumption and investment postponed earlier will be released, and there will be a compensatory recovery in China.
”潘功胜说。
'he said.
若疫情延续，接下来还可采取哪些措施应对？有银行业分析师表示，财政政策方面，财政部对疫情防控重点保障企业贷款给予贴息，市场高度关注下一步对于中小企业减税免税降费、财政空间扩容（预算赤字率、专项债、特别国债）以及基建投资相关的政策举措。
In the area of fiscal policy, the Ministry of Finance is paying low interest rates on key corporate loans for disease prevention and control, and the market is highly concerned about next steps related to tax cuts for small and medium-sized enterprises, fiscal space expansion (budget deficit ratio, special debt, special national debt) and infrastructure investment, banking analysts said.
国家金融与发展实验室特聘研究员董希淼告诉《财经》记者，下一步，我国应采取多方面措施，未雨绸缪，积极应对疫情对经济的可能冲击。
Dong Miao, a special research fellow at the National Financial and Development Laboratory, told Caijing that China should take various measures to proactively respond to the potential impact of the epidemic on the economy.
一方面，财政政策要更加积极有效，减税降费工作要继续深入实施，赤字率还可以适当提高。
On the one hand, the fiscal policy should be more active and effective, the tax reduction work should continue to be carried out in depth, and the deficit ratio can be appropriately raised.
另一方面，货币政策要更加灵活适度，保障市场流动性合理充裕。
On the other hand, monetary policy should be more flexible and moderate to ensure adequate market liquidity.
特别是要通过定向降准、再贷款、再贴现等措施，加大对中小银行的流动性支持，鼓励中小银行银行进一步服务好受疫情影响较大的民营和小微企业。
In particular, liquidity support for small and medium-sized banks should be increased through targeted deregistration, refinancing and rediscount, so as to encourage small and medium-sized banks to provide further services to private enterprises and micro and small enterprises affected by the epidemic.
潘功胜在发布会上直言，人民银行正在认真分析和评估疫情对我国经济的影响，宏观调控政策空间仍然是充足的，在世界主要经济体中，中国的货币政策仍然是少数实施常态化货币政策的国家。
Pan made clear at the conference that the People's Bank of China is carefully analyzing and assessing the impact of the epidemic on China's economy. The policy space for macro-control is still sufficient.
所以，工具箱非常充足。
So the toolbox is very adequate.
“在货币政策方面，接下来，一是要加大逆周期调节的强度，保持流动性合理充裕，为实体经济提供良好的货币金融环境。
"In terms of monetary policy, the next step is to increase the intensity of counter-cyclical adjustment, maintain reasonable liquidity and provide a sound monetary and financial environment for the real economy."
二是要进一步深化利率市场化改革，完善市场报价利率传导机制，提高货币政策的传导效率，降低社会融资成本。
Second, we should further deepen the market-oriented reform of interest rates, improve the transmission mechanism of market quotation rates, improve the efficiency of monetary policy transmission, and reduce the cost of social financing.
三是继续发挥结构性货币政策工具的作用，像定向降准、再贷款、再贴现这样一些结构性货币政策工具的引导作用，加大对国民经济重点领域和薄弱环节的支持力度。
Third, it will continue to play the role of a structural monetary policy instrument, such as directional adjustment, refinancing and rediscount, and strengthen its support for key areas and weak links in the national economy.
”潘功胜说。
'he said.
董希淼进一步指出，监管部门应适时调整相关监管指标和考核要求，打消金融机构后顾之忧。
Dong Miao further pointed out that the regulatory authorities should timely adjust the relevant regulatory indicators and assessment requirements to remove financial institutions.
当然，金融机构在做好对疫情防控工作支持的同时，亦需更加注意防范金融风险采取措施防范可能出现的道德风险，如对假借疫情名义逃废债务的企业和个人，应及时纳入征信系统。
Of course, financial institutions should pay more attention to the prevention and control of epidemic diseases and take more precautions against moral hazard. For example, enterprises and individuals who evade debts in the name of the epidemic should be included in the credit investigation system in a timely manner.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
四部委“加码”企业扶持：增加贴息资金规模，税收优惠指引将出。
Four ministries of "code" enterprise support: increase the scale of interest-bearing funds, tax concessions guidelines will be out.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "四部委“加码”企业扶持：增加贴息资金规模，税收优惠指引将出";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "按照国务院会议最新决定，增加贴息资金规模，改按疫情防控重点保障企业实际获得贷款利率的50%给予贴息，确保企业实际融资成本低于1.6%";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
