返程高峰，坐飞机你需要知道这些。
Back to the peak. You need to know about this.
李明洁 徐菁菁。
Li Ming Jie Jing Jing.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
春节假期已经结束，各地陆续迎来了返程高峰。
Spring Festival has been over, the return of each region has ushered in peak.
相比其他公共交通工具而言，飞机客舱内的空间更封闭，这是否增添了病毒传播的可能性？武汉天河机场医疗急救中心副主任医师田剑清告诉本刊记者，飞机的垂直空调通风系统可最大程度规避传染病的蔓延。
Does the fact that the cabin space is more closed than other means of public transportation increases the likelihood of the virus spreading? Tian Jianqing, deputy director of Wuhan Tianhe Airport Medical Emergency Center, told reporters that the plane's vertical air-conditioning ventilation system can help prevent the spread of infectious diseases to the greatest extent possible.
对于普通乘客而言，可以通过飞行前后做好防护准备、配合防疫工作等措施来解决和规避传染风险。
For ordinary passengers, through pre-flight and post-flight preparedness, cooperation with epidemic prevention efforts and other measures to address and avoid the risk of infection.
记者 | 李明洁 徐菁菁空气循环不是主要问题2003年SARS期间，全球共有35个飞机航班上出现旅客疑似被患有SARS的同行旅客感染的情况，但最后只有4个航班上的疑似病例被确诊，共16人。
Air circulation is not a major problem. During the SARS epidemic in 2003, passengers suspected to have SARS onboard 35 aircraft worldwide were diagnosed with suspected SARS passengers, but only four flight suspects, 16 in all, were confirmed.
在2003年的56届世界卫生大会上，世界卫生组织传染病负责人大卫·海曼(David Heymann)强调，这些感染都是在各航空公司采取严格的登机旅客健康状况检查措施之前发生的。
At the 56th World Health Assembly in 2003, David Heymann, director of infectious diseases at the World Health Organization, stressed that the infections had occurred before airlines adopted stringent health screening measures for boarding passengers.
飞机的环境相比火车而言狭小密闭，但其内部有一套复杂特殊的空气循环系统。
The environment of an airplane is smaller and closed than that of a train, but it has a complex and special air circulation system inside.
飞行过波音737等机型的机长陈建国告诉本刊，一般来说，在飞机上，空气从底部被吸出，过滤加压后进入空调系统，经高效微粒过滤Hepa系统过滤。
Chen Jianguo, a pilot who has flown a Boeing 737, told the print that in general, air is sucked out from the bottom, filtered and pressurized into the air conditioning system and filtered through the Hepa system through highly effective particulates.
过滤过的空气通过总管道，会像灌溉一样，沿着客舱顶部，每隔3～4排或4～5排的出口排出，整体呈“丰”字型。
Filtered air passes through the main line and is discharged, like irrigation, along the top of the cabin, every three to four rows or four to five rows of exits.
这样的空气系统设计，使几排之间形成了较为独立的微循环系统，避免了舱内空气的横向流通。
Such an air system design, so that several rows of the formation of a relatively independent microcirculation system, to avoid the horizontal air circulation.
图 | 摄图网根据民航局有关方面在《国际航空》杂志2013年第7期发表的文章《客舱空气质量相当于手术室——再谈乘坐飞机为什么感染SARS的可能性很小》，Hepa空气滤可以去除空气中99.97%以上的的直径为0.003微米的微粒。
Hepa Air Filtration removes 0.003 microns in diameter of more than 99.97 per cent of the air, according to an article published by Civil Aviation Administration in International Air 2013 issue 7, Air Quality in the Cabin is the equivalent of an operating room.
新冠肺炎病毒（2019-nCov）的平均直径约为0.1微米。
The mean diameter of the new crown pneumonia virus (2019-nCov) is about 0.1 micron.
单个病毒、吸附在灰尘等其他颗粒上的病毒群、飞沫，这些形态都在Hepa气滤的作用范围内。
Individual viruses, groups of viruses adsorbed to other particles such as dust, droplets, all of which fall within the scope of Hepa gas filtration.
2月2日，民航局印发《关于做好春节返程期间新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》，力求最大限度地减少疫情通过航空器传播，其中一项就是使用飞机最大通风量。
On February 2, the Civil Aviation Administration issued the Notice on Prevention and Control of New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia During the Return of the Spring Festival, seeking to minimize the spread of the epidemic through aircraft.
过去，飞机上的空气大约3~5分钟就会全部更换一次。
In the past, the air on an airplane was changed in about three to five minutes.
疫情期间，民航总局的要求是通风量开到最大，2-3分钟换一次。
During the outbreak, CAAC requires maximum ventilation, 2-3 minutes to change.
这样加速了机舱内空气的垂直流动，使人体呼出的污浊空气停留时间更短。
This speeds up the vertical flow of air in the cabin and allows the human body to exhale dirty air for a shorter period of time.
除了调高换气的频率，一些航空公司也更换了飞机空气再循环系统的气滤网，以提供更清洁的空气。
In addition to increasing the frequency of air-conditioning, some airlines have replaced air filters in the aircraft's air recycling system to provide cleaner air.
陈建国告诉本刊，不同制造商的飞机与空气再循环系统有着不尽相同的清洁标准，以750小时与7500小时两种循环类别的气滤网为例，对应的日常更换频率是大约两月一换与两年一换。
Chen Jianguo told the magazine that different manufacturers have different cleaning standards for aircraft and air recycling systems, with 750 hours and 7,500 hours of circulation as examples of daily replacement frequency of about two months to two years.
“这与你自己家买的空气净化器的更换频次一样，有的是30天，但有的是90天，最终净化出来的空气都是达标的。
"It's the same frequency that you buy your own home-made air purifier, some for 30 days, some for 90 days, and the air that is eventually purified is up to par.
”陈建国说：“飞机会采用统一的要求来运行，乘客没有必要去比较气滤网的更换频次。
"Aircraft will be operated according to uniform requirements, and there is no need for passengers to compare the frequency of changes to air filters," Chen said.
”特殊时期，特殊措施除了增大飞机的通风量，在《关于做好春节返程期间新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》中，民航局还提出了增加消毒频次、调整飞行期间服务流程、督促乘客戴口罩、登机口测温等措施。
In addition to increasing ventilation during special periods, the Civil Aviation Administration (CAA), in the Notice Concerning the Prevention and Control of New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia During the Return of the Spring Festival, also proposed measures to increase the frequency of disinfection, adjust the service flow during flight, and urge passengers to wear masks and take temperature measurements at boarding gates.
在一份书面采访中，东方航空相关负责人告诉本刊，目前，东航所有航空器均执行严格的航后消毒。
In a written interview, the relevant responsible person of Eastern Airlines told this print, at present, all aircraft of China Eastern carry out strict post-flight disinfection.
对于执行航班的飞机，东航要求在地面过站、短停的航空器，必须使用“1452飞机客舱清洗消毒剂”，对客舱内日常需清洁擦拭的部位进行喷洒、擦拭处理。
For aircraft carrying out flights, China Eastern requires the use of "1452 aircraft cabin cleaning disinfectant," the daily needs to clean the cabin cleaning, cleaning treatment.
进行航后清洁和深度清洁时，还需要再度深入消毒。
After-flight cleaning and in-depth cleaning, but also need to be further disinfected.
远征 摄在地面上，东航的摆渡车、客梯车等载客车辆也均要求每4小时消毒一次，而一旦遇到疑似情况，则在使用后即刻对车辆进行消毒。
On the ground, passenger vehicles such as the ferry and elevator of China Eastern Airlines are also required to disinfect every four hours and, in case of suspected cases, to disinfect the vehicles immediately after use.
摆渡车的座椅、扶手、车门和客梯车的栏板、扶手、踏板等部位，还将进行重点消毒。
The seats, handrails, doors and ramps, handrails, pedals and other parts of the ferry will also be disinfected.
车辆使用和消毒完毕后，会在指定区域停放，打开车门、车窗，保持通风。
After using and disinfecting the vehicle, it will park in the designated area, open the door and window, and keep the ventilation.
所有的垃圾袋都必须封扎好袋口、进行消毒、然后装入专用回收箱，由指定的专车送到机场指定地点进行停放，交由专业医废处理机构进行处理。
All bags must be sealed, sanitized and then packed in special recovery bins and transported by a designated vehicle to a designated location at the airport for disposal by a specialized medical waste treatment facility.
垃圾处理完毕后，也要由专人进行严格消毒。
After the disposal of garbage, also by special person to carry out strict disinfection.
机上污水放入污水车箱体后，同样必须按消毒剂浓度配比比例投放消毒液或消毒片、漂白粉进行消毒，消毒时间满2小时后方可进行排放。
Disinfectant or disinfectant tablets and bleach should also be disinfected in proportion to the concentration of disinfectant. Disinfection time should be 2 hours before discharging.
远征 摄武汉天河机场医疗急救中心副主任医师田剑清告诉本刊，飞机在乘客登机以后、抵达目的地或途中非进餐时刻，会根据传染风险程度，有可能喷洒气雾消毒剂消毒。
Tian Jianqing, deputy director of Wuhan Tianhe Airport Medical Emergency Center, told the magazine that aerosol disinfectant may be used to disinfect passengers after they board the plane, when they arrive at their destination or at non-meal times along the way, depending on the risk of infection.
这种消毒剂这个对人体无害，却对病菌有一定杀灭作用，可一定程度上起到减少传染可能性的作用。
This disinfectant is harmless to human body, but has certain killing effect on germs, can reduce the possibility of infection to a certain extent.
根据目前已知的信息，与患者距离较近的密切接触者高度存在被传染的可能性。
According to currently known information, close contacts close to the patient are highly susceptible to infection.
田剑清告诉本刊记者，飞机的空气微循环系统使3～5排间成为一个相对独立的区域，但并不意味着如果飞机上有患者，只有与他同排、前后三排乘客（宽体飞机可排出间隔再一个走道的乘客）才是密切接触者。
Tian told reporters that the plane's air microcirculation system made the three-to-five rows a relatively separate area, but that did not mean that if there were patients on board, only passengers in the same row, three rows before and after (wide-bodied aircraft can exit another aisle), would be in close contact.
为患者近距离服务的机组成员，以及和患者使用了同一卫生间的乘客都可能成为传播风险。
Crew members who work in close proximity to the patient, and passengers who share the same bathroom with the patient, can be a risk of transmission.
而患者有可能在机舱走动，这时全机所有人员都会被视为密切接触者。
It is possible for the patient to move around in the cabin, where all the crew are considered to be in close contact.
为了尽量避免机上可能的病毒的传播，东航方面称，所有的航班人员都必须穿戴好口罩等防护用品再上岗，东航休息室和机上服务也进行了全面梳理调整，严控精简非必要的机供品，消除可能的传播触点。
In an effort to avoid the spread of possible viruses on board, China Eastern said all crews had to wear face masks and other protective gear before re-entry, and the East Airways lounge and in-flight services were overhauled to strictly control the streamlining of non-essential supplies and eliminate possible transmission contacts.
远征 摄一些国内航空已经取消了国内航线毛毯等物品的发放，以袋装食品替代以往的热餐，减少机上服务的频次。
Expeditions Some domestic airlines have canceled deliveries of blankets on domestic routes, replacing old hot meals with bagged ones and reducing the frequency of on-board services.
如果机上发现疑似病例，机组也会采取特殊措施。
If a suspected case is found on board, the unit will also take special measures.
田剑清说，乘务员通常会这样做：“1.为疑似者佩戴或加戴口罩、劝阻其随意活动以基础隔离；2.在客舱有空余座位情况下，调整座位，必要时候将其安排到机尾等相宜位置，拉开其与其他乘客距离以实现空间距离隔离；3.为其他没有口罩的乘客提供口罩，引导其他乘客使用其他卫生间等。
"1. If the passenger has a spare seat, adjust the seat and, if necessary, place it at a suitable distance from other passengers, such as the tail, and provide other passengers with face masks and direct other passengers to other toilets.
”普通旅客防疫指南除此之外，普通乘客还可以采用哪些防疫措施呢？田剑清给出以下建议：三联生活周刊：飞行期间乘客与乘务人员都带了口罩，除此之外我们还应该注意什么？田剑清：戴口罩的确可以很大程度减少飞沫传播的可能性。
In addition to the general passenger vaccination guidelines, what preventive measures can ordinary passengers adopt? Tian Jianqing gave the following advice: Triple Life Weekly: Passengers and crew members wear masks during flight, what else should we beware?
但是，在就餐、洗脸等时间是必须取下口罩的，这个时候就存在一定的传染可能。
However, in repast, face washing and other time is necessary to take off the mask, this time there is a certain risk of infection.
为了解决就餐时脱下口罩可能面临传染的危险，我们建议航空公司在机舱配餐中推行间隔座位、分开时间段就餐的分餐制。
In order to solve the risk of infection when taking off the mask during meals, we recommend the airline to carry out a separate meal system with seats and separate time slots in the cabin.
旅客洗脸时，强调必须先按照标准洗手超过20秒钟，自我注重卫生间清理。
When washing your face, emphasize the need to wash hands in accordance with the standard for more than 20 seconds, self-focusing on toilet cleaning.
三联生活周刊：乘客尽量避免在飞机上进食、如厕是必要的防护措施吗？田剑清：短途飞行，的确可以通过飞行前后就餐的方式来减少暴露。
Triple Life Weekly: Is it necessary for passengers to avoid eating on airplanes, such as toilets? Tian Jianqing: Short-haul flights do reduce exposure by eating before and after flight.
长途越洋跨洲飞行，则不主张飞行中挨饿，应该按照机组安排实行分时隔位分餐制，即减少暴露，也避免挨饿于身体不利。
Long-distance transcontinental flights, do not advocate in flight hunger, should be arranged in accordance with the unit division meal system, that is to reduce exposure, also avoid starvation adverse.
此外，患有低血糖和糖尿病胰岛素分泌失衡等疾病患者，应该按照疾病治疗需要，向机组表明患病情况，保证及时就餐，以及根据临床医生意见科学及时用药。
In addition, patients with diseases such as hypoglycemia and diabetes insulin secretion imbalance should be shown to the crew according to the needs of disease treatment, ensure timely meals, and according to the views of clinical doctors scientific and timely medication.
三联生活周刊：接触行李、货物是否有感染的风险？田剑清：有报道称，在患者接触过的门把手检测到了病毒核酸，新型冠状病毒感染性肺炎被证实存在接触传染。
Tian Jianqing: It has been reported that viral nucleic acids have been detected in doorknobs that patients have come into contact with, and a new coronavirus-infected pneumonia has been confirmed to be contagious.
但是，李兰娟院士表示，只要坚持勤洗手和按标准洗手，是可以避免不戴手套而导致一般性物品接触传染的。
However, Academician Li Lan-juan said that as long as we stick to a regular hand washing and hand washing standards, can avoid wearing gloves resulting in general items contact infection.
因此，我们不必为接触物品以及托运行李而太过恐慌。
So we don't have to panic about touching things and checking luggage.
三联生活周刊：自身免疫能力较弱的人，是否应当被建议更少地乘坐公共交通工具？田剑清：在传染病肆虐的情况下，体弱多病、抵抗力低下的人群，的确更应该减少出行。
Tian Jianqing: Should people with weak immunity be advised to travel less by public transportation? Tian Jianqing: With infectious diseases raging, people with weak health and low resistance should indeed travel less.
三联生活周刊：如果在飞行期间感到不适，应该寻求哪些医疗援助呢？田剑清：生病旅客在购票前应该仔细阅读航空公司的申明，在身体健康不适的情况下应该根据临床医生的建议来决定是否进行航空旅行。
Tian Jianqing: If you feel unwell during the flight, what medical assistance should you seek? Tian Jianqing: Before buying tickets, sick passengers should read the airline's statement carefully and decide whether to travel by air on the advice of a clinician if they are unwell.
部分航司还要求高龄和重疾、无陪、行动不便学生旅客，提供健康报告或医生近日的病历或医嘱建议，评估后才予以承运。
Some aviation departments also require elderly and seriously ill, unaccompanied and mobility-impaired students to provide health reports or recent medical records or advice from doctors before they can be shipped.
另外，疾病是动态发展的，出院时评估或许可以乘机旅行，但登机时依然可能由于熬夜、搬运行李、赶飞机、未按时按量服用药物等原因而健康状况不佳，航空旅行有可能会被临时减舱拒载。
In addition, the disease is dynamic and travel by air may be assessed at the time of discharge, but there is a risk that air travel may be temporarily denied owing to poor health due to, inter alia, staying up late, carrying luggage, catching a plane, or not taking medicines on time.
如果出现这种情况，疾病患者应该予以接受和理解，因为生命健康才是最宝贵的。
If this happens, people with the disease should accept and understand it, because the health of life is the most precious.
《内在美》剧照因此，应尽量避免独自一人抱病乘机旅行，应与熟悉自己病情和处置措施的亲友一起乘机旅行。
As a result, you should avoid traveling alone, and travel by air with relatives and friends who are familiar with your illness and treatment.
在乘机前，应该充足睡眠，保持旺盛精力，尽量减少乘机前后不必要的体力耗损，如长时间长距离背着远超手提行李重量额度的背包登机等。
Before flying, you should get plenty of sleep and keep your energy up to a minimum before and after the flight, such as carrying a backpack for long distances far in excess of your hand baggage allowance.
记着将按时服用的药物和必备的应急药物随身携带，飞行途中按规定按时服药。
Keep in mind that medications and emergency drugs are always on hand and take medication regularly throughout the flight.
在途中如感觉不适，应及时向服务员求助和表明病情，必要时机组会采取相宜措施给予救助。
If you feel unwell along the way, you should ask the attendant for help and indicate the condition in time. If necessary, the crew will take appropriate measures to help.
三联生活周刊：在没有条件做有效隔离的情况下，如果发现疑似病例，邻近的乘客应该怎样保护自己呢？田剑清：乘客发现身边有人有发热、咳嗽等呼吸系统症状，应该在自己佩戴好口罩（有眼罩、手套也宜戴上）；如没有口罩可用手臂遮挡，或竖立衣领、戴好衣帽的同时扭头，避免其飞沫传染；有多余口罩时给予其口罩，让其佩戴以初步隔离；没有多余口罩时，可扭头低声劝其暂用手臂或纸巾遮挡口鼻；报告机组人员相关情况；在航空器不颠簸的情况下可走到其他位置拉开距离。
Tian Jianqing: Passengers should wear a mask if they have respiratory symptoms such as fever and coughing. If there is no mask, they should wear a mask with their arms to cover their noses and mouths.
三联生活周刊：如果发现某航班存在疑似病例，同机的乘客会被跟踪多久？田剑清：一般是按疾病的潜伏发病时间，从和疑似患者分开的时刻算起，通常是14天。
Tian Jianqing: If a flight is found to have a suspected case, how long will passengers on the same flight be followed? Tian Jianqing: Usually according to the incubation time of the disease, from the time of separation from the suspected patient, usually 14 days.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please stamp [5prE5teiFEn] New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击下图，一键下单「年里美味」买它！▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to the weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you Why don't we go over to our weekly bookstore
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
返程高峰，坐飞机你需要知道这些。
Back to the peak. You need to know about this.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "返程高峰，坐飞机你需要知道这些";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "对于普通乘客而言，可以通过飞行前后做好防护准备、配合防疫工作等措施来解决和规避传染风险。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
