疫情之下，快手里守望时刻。
Keep an eye out for the outbreak.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
_2020农历新年，没有过年的喜庆。
_ 2020 Lunar New Year, there is no festive New Year.
无数的心被疫情牵动，武汉、孝感、黄冈、随州、荆州……多座城市陆续启动突发公共卫生事件一级应急响应，湖北、广东、浙江等共有34个省份出现新型冠状病毒感染病患。
Countless hearts are affected by the epidemic, Wuhan, filial piety, Huanggang, Suizhou, Jingzhou... Several cities have launched a public health emergency first-level response, and a total of 34 provinces, including Hubei, Guangdong and Zhejiang, have developed new coronavirus infections.
截止2月8日，共有34662人确诊，疑似病例达27657例，重症达6101人，死亡724人，治愈2313人。
As at 8 February, a total of 34,662 cases had been diagnosed, with 27,657 suspected cases, 6,101 severe cases, 724 deaths and 2,313 cures.
这是场与死神的生死较量。
It is a battle of life and death with death.
当疫区城市被封锁，口罩、防护服、蔬菜、水果……甚至成人纸尿裤都在告急时，无数人开始行动，支援前线医护人员，支援此刻受难的同胞。
When cities in affected areas are sealed off, masks, protective clothing, vegetables, fruits... and even adult diapers are in crisis, millions of people are moving to support front-line medical personnel to support their suffering compatriots.
他们来自不同城市，职业各异。
They come from different cities and have different occupations.
他们是外地务工人员，是农民，是卡车司机，是快递员，是外卖员……无论是否在疫区，他们逆行而上，成为城市的守护者，为城市的运转贡献一份力量。
They are migrant workers, farmers, truck drivers, couriers, take-out workers... whether or not they are in affected areas, they are the guardians of the city, contributing to its functioning.
西红柿、黄瓜、大蒜、西葫芦、红肠，被一筐筐送上卡车，它们有了共同的目的地：武汉。
Tomatoes, cucumbers, garlic, zucchini and sausages were carried to trucks in baskets with a common destination: Wuhan.
人们的关心是朴实的，风暴中的人们能不能吃上饭。
People's concern is simple, the storm whether people can eat.
在他们看来，“这是作为普通人，尽我自己最大的努力了”，但这也是他们辛苦一年的收成。
In their view, "this is as ordinary people, do my best," but it is also their hard year of harvest.
在快手里，一句匆匆喊出的“武汉加油、中国加油”，一辆辆载着物资驶向湖北的卡车，还有送货小哥的身影，总能给人慰藉和温暖。
In the quick hand, a hurriedly shouted "Wuhan refueling, China refueling," a vehicle carrying supplies to Hubei truck, as well as the figure of delivery brother, always give comfort and warmth.
疫情并未隔离人心，唯有行动给予能量。
The epidemic does not isolate people, only action gives energy.
快手记录了这些普通人的守望时刻，有赶赴前线医护人员的勇气，有卡车司机逆行的执拗，有快递员在空旷街头的孤独，也有隔离在家的乐观。
The quick hand recorded the vigil of these ordinary people, the courage to rush to the front-line, the obstinacy of a truck driver, the loneliness of a courier in the open street, and the optimism of being isolated at home.
我们坚信，记录有力量，而我们终将挺过这场没有硝烟的战役。
We are convinced that the record is strong and that we will survive the battle without the smoke.
所以，我们一起加油。
So let's cheer up together.
速“面对生命，全速前进”1月28日，走南闯北的阿三拉了一批货物前往武汉。
"Face life, full speed forward" January 28, the northward journey of A Sanla a batch of goods to Wuhan.
这是一批送往武汉火神山医院的搭建物资。
This is a batch of materials sent to Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital.
当天是火神山医院建设的第三天，而在6天后，这家医院将交付使用。
It was the third day of construction at Mount Fukuyama Hospital, which will be ready for use six days later.
在镜头前，他说，“第一次与货主在时间上没有任何计较，保证全速前进。
In front of the camera, he said, "the first time with the owner of the cargo without any concern, to ensure full speed forward.
以前计较价格、时间，但是今天不行，面对的是生命，越早送到，越有好处。
Before the price, time, but today can not, face life, the earlier the delivery, the better.
”从河北廊坊到武汉火神山，阿三哥用了17小时，早于原定时间。
From Langfang, in Hebei Province, to Mount Huoshen in Wuhan, it took him 17 hours, ahead of schedule.
中途，他在加油站休息了半小时。
Halfway through, he rested for half an hour at the gas station.
他清楚时间是至关重要，只有“全速前进”。
He knew that time was of the essence and that only "full speed forward."
从武汉回来后，他又火速联系家乡防疫站，主动要求隔离。
After returning from Wuhan, he contacted home quickly to prevent epidemic stations, actively asked for isolation.
尽管从隔离医院的窗户就能望见自家院子，他还选择隔离，“对家人负责”。
Although he could see his yard from a secluded hospital window, he also chose isolation, "responsible for his family."
阿三哥在快手里记录了离家前的情景。
Three elder brother in quick hand record the scene before leaving home.
小儿子抱着爸爸的大腿不放，满是依恋。
The younger son was clinging to his father's lap, full of attachment.
卡车司机常年东奔西跑，不着家，难得过年回趟家，偏偏遇到灾情。
Truck drivers often to and fro, can not home, rarely back home, just encounter disaster.
阿三哥很朴实，他说，“就是想给孩子树立个榜样，当年我父亲也是这样教育我的。
"Third Brother is very simple, he said," is to set an example for the children, my father taught me so.
”在快手里，驰援灾区的卡车司机还有很多，目的地是武汉。
In the quick hand, there are many more truckers in the disaster area, and the destination is Wuhan.
冷藏司机秋姐和丈夫免费为武汉协和医院运送蔬菜，快到武汉时，大雾弥漫，两人搭伙前行，有个照应。
Cold driver Qiujie and her husband sent vegetables to Wuhan for free. Towards the end of the day, the fog filled the air.
一趟结束后，两人又赶回云南，开始第二趟支援之旅。
After the trip, the two returned to Yunnan for a second support trip.
战“从医院到互联网一直战斗在一线”“我们现在已经到达武汉了，看我的口罩没有，里里外外三层哦，两个外科口罩一个N95”，1月27日，迷彩小护士（圆圆糖）团队发布了医护人员落地武汉的视频。
"From the hospital to the Internet has been fighting in the line" "We have now reached Wuhan, look at my mask inside and outside the three Oh, two surgical masks N95," January 27, the camouflage nurse (round sugar) team released a video of the landing of medical personnel in Wuhan
在她们身后，还有更多一样穿着迷彩服戴着口罩前来支援武汉的医护人员，走向疫区中心。
Behind them, many more arrived in camouflage suits and masks to support Wuhan's medical staff as they headed to the center of the epidemic area.
自疫情发布以来，全国各地多家医院派出医疗团队支援武汉。
Since the outbreak, many hospitals around the country have sent medical teams to support Wuhan.
2月7日，国家卫健委表示，医护人员支援的力量已经达到11000多人。
On February 7, the National Fitness Commission said the strength of medical support has reached more than 11,000 people.
告别儿女，告别父母，他们只身出现在需要他们的地方。
Farewell to their children and farewell to their parents, who appear alone where they are needed.
即使被口罩勒出印痕，还坚持在一线，为了治病救人。
Even if the mask strangled, but also insisted on the first line, in order to save people.
在快手，武汉大学人民医院的呼吸科医生余昌平做着关于新型冠状病毒的科普工作。
In the fast hand, Wuhan University People's Hospital respiratory doctor Yu Changping on the new coronavirus work.
他是第一个被感染的湖北新型冠状病毒防治专家组的成员，此时正在重症病房隔离治疗中。
He was the first member of a team of experts on the prevention and treatment of the new coronavirus in Hubei province.
他说话风趣，一口地方腔调。
He has a funny voice and a local accent.
前线专家在快手做科普这无疑能消除大众对病毒的恐慌。
Frontline experts are doing science on the fly which will no doubt dispel public fears about the virus.
他想在快手搞点科普，告诉大家疾病和疫情的认识判断。
He wanted to get some science out of the way and tell us about the disease and the epidemic.
因为，“从医院到互联网一直战斗在一线。
Because, "from the hospital to the Internet has been fighting in the front line.
”Play被新型冠状病毒击中后，余医生经历过昏迷，几乎已处在弥留之际。
After being hit by the new coronavirus, Dr Yu passed through a coma and was almost on his deathbed.
但是他靠着对自身体质和意志力的信心，精神一天天好转。
But his faith in his constitution and will-power made him better day by day.
对于冲在一线的医护人员而言，余医生不知道什么时候感染，被谁感染的。
For the front-line medical staff, Dr. Yu did not know when the infection, who infected.
但是他说，等到出院，我还要继续救治病人。
But he said I would have to continue to treat the patient until I was discharged.
的确，抗病毒是一场拉锯战，积极防护和科学认知必不可少。
Indeed, anti-virus is a tug of war, and active defense and scientific understanding are essential.
感谢奋战在一线的医护人员，感谢你们的坚守。
Thank you to the health care workers on the front line, thank you for your commitment.
速“中国速度”的背后马立业是一家山东电动车公司的销售员。
Speed "China speed" behind Ma Liye is a Shandong Electric Vehicle Company sales staff.
这个春节，他成了武汉火神山医院的志愿者，援助医院建设。
This Spring Festival, he became Wuhan fire god mountain hospital volunteers, assistance hospital construction.
1月23日，也就是大年夜的前一天，他在快手录段子，表示春节继续接单。
On January 23, the day before New Year's Eve, he was writing a paragraph to indicate that the Spring Festival continued to be ordered.
5天后，他拍下武汉空荡的街道和高楼，说“武汉加油，我来了。
Five days later, he photographed Wuhan empty streets and tall buildings, said: "Wuhan refueling, I came.
”援建的日子是加班加点，不分昼夜。
The days of construction were long hours, day and night.
马立业常在凌晨发短视频。
Ma Liye often sends short videos in the wee hours.
镜头里的火神山医院施工现场，仍是忙碌的样子，吊车发出轰鸣声，工人在搬运建材，户外搭建通风管道。
In the lens of the fire god mountain hospital construction site, is still busy, cranes roar, workers in the removal of building materials, outdoor ventilation pipes.
经过一天的劳作，他坐在马路牙子上大口吃着盒饭，“香”！加班加点是为了按时交付。
After a day's work, he sat on the curb and munched on a box of rice, "smelling"! Working overtime to deliver on time.
2月2日上午，这座建筑面积3万多平米、拥有1000个床位的火神山医院正式移交人民军队医务工作者，隔日火神山医院正式收治新型冠状病毒肺炎患者。
On the morning of February 2, the 10,000-bed, 30,000-square-metre Mount Huoshen Hospital was handed over to the PLA medical staff, and the new coronavirus pneumonia was officially admitted to the hospital every other day.
在视频里，小马哥说“记录是为了留下一份见证”。
In the video, Margo said that "the record is to leave a witness."
他见证了10天造一座医院的“中国速度”。
He witnessed the "Chinese speed" of building a hospital for 10 days.
在小马哥和务工人员的快手里，这些不具名者劳动身影被记录了下来，他们的疲惫与汗水值得被记录与赞美。
In the hands of the younger brother and the laborers, these anonymous laborers are recorded, and their weariness and sweat deserve to be recorded and praised.
这是劳动人民有力量的见证。
This is a testament to the strength of the working people.
决“尽一个普通人最大的努力”折腾了9天，一万斤萝卜终于捐了出去。
Determined to "do the best of the common man" toss nine days, 10 thousand catties of turnip finally donated.
1月29日，天津西青区的大丹丹发现疫情，想把自家农地的一万斤萝卜捐献给灾区，献一份爱心。
January 29, Tianjin Xingqing District Great Dandan found the outbreak, want to donate their farmland to the disaster area, a 10, 000 catty of love.
姐弟俩在快手发出求助，希望能有免费出车的爱心人士将萝卜运往武汉。
The brothers and sisters quickly issued a call for help, hoping to have a free trip to the heart of the radish transport to Wuhan.
联系到车辆后，一家人开始装萝卜。
After contacting the vehicle, the family began to load turnips.
那时，他们还未得知私人运输已经无法抵达疫区，交通管道让位于医疗物资和机构运输。
By then, they had not learned that private transportation was no longer possible in the affected areas and that transport pipelines had given way to medical supplies and facilities.
知道消息后，这家人又心急如焚地联系其他车辆。
After learning the news, the family distraught to contact other vehicles.
其中辗转难测，他们遭遇了质疑与误解，也遭遇了作秀的假慈善。
Among them toss and turn unfathomable, they encountered the doubt and misunderstanding, also encountered the false charity of show.
初衷只想捐献萝卜的这家人没有预料，“做好事这么难”。
The family, which had thought only of donating turnips, did not expect, "It's so hard to do good."
被误解和质疑的两天半是难熬的。
Two and a half days of misunderstanding and questioning have been difficult.
大丹丹在快手里回忆，“半夜12点多，虽然累但是还是睡不着，心里忐忑，怕找不到车，怕被人误解，也怕这两天半的努力泡汤了。
Great Dandan in the hands of memories, "although tired but still unable to sleep, scared, afraid to find a car, afraid of being misunderstood, the last two and a half days of efforts to destroy.
”这批萝卜捐赠给了天津市和平区红十字会。
The turnip was donated to the Tianjin Zone of Peace Red Cross.
支撑他们的是视频下的爱心留言，鼓励、支持着他们。
What sustains them is a loving message from the video, encouraging and supporting them.
在云南省红河州河口县坡头村，93户村民自发捐赠出22吨香蕉给武汉。
Ninety-three villagers donated 22 tons of bananas to Wuhan in the village of Po Tou in Honghe County, Honghezhou, Yunnan Province.
山路难行车，村民们就骑着摩托车将一筐一筐的香蕉运到集中点，再统一发车至武汉。
The mountain road is difficult to drive, villagers on motorcycles to a basket of bananas to the collection point, and then uniform to Wuhan.
日照绿茶一哥捐赠3000斤西红柿驰援武汉，一筐筐西红柿连夜专车发往武汉。
Rizhao green tea brother donated 3000 jin tomatoes to Wuhan, a basket of tomatoes overnight special train to Wuhan.
“有力出力”，在一哥眼中，这是他作为一个普通人所尽最大的努力了。
"Powerful", in the eyes of a brother, this is his best effort as an ordinary person.
武汉同城日记这是武汉封城的第17天。
Wuhan Tongcheng Diary This is the 17th day of Wuhan Sealing City.
武汉市公交、地铁系统已经停运，加上私家车禁行，昔日热闹、繁华的都市迅速沉寂，拥挤的街头也空荡，无车辆通行。
Wuhan city's bus and subway system has been shut down, coupled with the ban on private cars, once bustling, bustling city quiet, the crowded streets empty, no vehicles.
透过快手的同城，所幸这座城市还未因为疫情停摆。
Through the fast-moving city, fortunately the city has not been stopped by the outbreak.
居家隔离之外，人们努力维持日常生活，用乐观和信心建立起生活的秩序，不被恐慌击垮。
Outside the confines of the home, people struggle to maintain their daily lives, building order in their lives with optimism and confidence and not being overwhelmed by panic.
武汉火车站工作人员“你行你叫左爽”忙碌了一年，刚准备回家过年，因为疫情来袭，考虑家人安全，准备不回家了。
Wuhan railway station staff "you call left Shuang" busy for a year, just ready to go home for the New Year, because of the outbreak of the epidemic, family security, ready not to go home.
2019年，他刚毕业，加入工作第一年。
In 2019, he had just graduated and joined the first year of his career.
他用快手拍下即将封城的武汉站和工作中的自己，给武汉加油，也给自己加油。
He used a quick hand to capture the upcoming closure of Wuhan station and their own work, to Wuhan refueling, but also to their own refueling.
他说，“目前健康，请亲人家人朋友们放心！”在武汉，仍有快递员、外卖员坚持在工作。
"At present, healthy, please family and friends rest assured!" In Wuhan, there are couriers, take-out workers insist on working.
快递员袁双载着一箱货物，驶入空荡荡的街道。
Yuan Shuangshang, a courier carrying a box of goods, drove into the empty streets.
他调侃，“除了我还在送货外，小区没有一个人”。
"No one in the neighborhood except me for delivery," he joked.
为了避免感染，现在送货提倡无接触式送货。
To avoid infection, contact-free delivery is now encouraged for delivery.
一户人家递出一个口罩，一个句“感谢”能让他开心好久。
One family offered a mask, and a "thank you" sentence made him happy for a long time.
原本喧嚣的街头变得冷寂，令外卖小哥感到陌生。
Originally noisy streets become cold, so that take-out brother feel strange.
他们也会感到孤独。
They also feel lonely.
一位外卖员哭诉，“现在没有人，完全大街小巷都没有人，我心里很难受，我一边在骑车，一边在哭。
"There's nobody out there," sobbed one of the salesmen. "I feel terrible when I'm riding my bike and crying.
”还有菜农在摆摊，老人戴着口罩，守着批发的大葱、青菜，放久了也就烂了。
There are vegetable farmers in the stall, the old man wearing a mask, guarding the wholesale spring onions, green vegetables, long also rotten.
街头里流行起芬兰排队法，人们在超市门口相隔一米距离，等着进超市采购。
Finnish queuing became popular in the streets, with people waiting a metre apart at the entrance to the supermarket to make their purchases.
一些市民还自带护目镜。
Some citizens also bring their own goggles.
人们开始相互救助，一起团购大批物资，再发放给无法出门采购的市民。
People began to help each other, together with the purchase of large quantities of goods, and then issued to the citizens unable to go out to purchase.
疫区市民在快手留下一段段封城日记，简短却朴素。
Epidemics in the fast hand left a section of the city diary, short but simple.
带着口罩去超市买菜，进家门前全身消毒，也有偶尔苦中作乐。
Bring a mask to the supermarket to buy vegetables, the door to the full body disinfection, but also occasionally bitter fun.
哪怕只是一日三餐，家人的笑脸，也是人们向相互守望的人们报一声“平安”，日子还有在好好过。
Even if it is only three meals a day, the smiling face of the family, but also people to each other watchful people to say "peace," the day is still good.
武汉封城的第四天，也是“简简单单的金姐”做月子的第38天。
Wuhan sealing the fourth day of the city, is also "simple Jinjie" to do the month of the 38th day.
她的第二个宝宝出生了。
Her second baby was born.
她与老公带着孩子隔离在家。
She stayed at home with her husband and his children.
1月30日，阴霾了几天的武汉出太阳了，金姐也想出门走走。
January 30, the cloudy days of Wuhan out of the sun, sister Kim also want to go out for a walk.
在同城日记里，她写下，“今天天气很好，阳光暖暖的，如果是平时，江滩一定有好多人晒太阳，放风筝、谈恋爱。
In her diary, she wrote, "Today is a nice day, the sun is warm, if it is peacetime, Jiangtan must have a lot of people in the sun, flying kites, love.
“疫情之下，往日的散步成了奢望。
"Amid the epidemic, the old walks have become extravagant hopes.
快手同城是一个赛博之城，记录下空荡街头之外疫区市民日常点滴，有紧张，也有放松。
The fast-moving city is a Cyberport city, records the empty street outside the affected areas of daily life, there is tension, but also relax.
记录不会停止，这是我们彼此的发声，彼此的守望，给疫区市民带去温暖和慰藉。
Record will not stop, this is our mutual voice, each other's watch, to bring warmth and comfort to the residents of the affected areas.
再道一声，武汉加油，中国加油。
Again, Wuhan refueling, China refueling.
__（文：吴禾 图：快手）设计排版：赵星宇_。
_ (Text: Wo He Tu: Fast Hand) Design Layout: Zhao Xingyu _.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情之下，快手里守望时刻。
Keep an eye out for the outbreak.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情之下，快手里守望时刻";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "武汉加油，中国加油";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan refueling; China refueling & quot;;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
