专访高文斌：疫情期间心理建设尤其重要。
Interview with Gao Wenbin: Psychological construction is especially important during epidemic period.
陈璐。
Lu Chen.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
中国科学院心理研究所的研究员高文斌，是2003年北京小汤山“SARS患者与医护人员的心理干预”项目和“中科院心理所非典心理咨询热线”的负责人。
Gao Wenbin, a researcher at the Institute of Psychology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, is the director of the project "Psychological Intervention for SARS Patients and Medical Staff" and the "Psychology Hotline of the Chinese Academy of Sciences."
在接受本刊采访时，他认为，这次新冠疫情，尤其需要加强社会层面的心理引导和干预，“2003年非典造成的医疗直接支出，只占整个社会经济损失中的一小部分，其他大部分，包括相关生活、生产和受其影响的其他经济活动，都是由于从个人到社会群体的一系列过激连锁反应，以及一些不恰当的心理行为导致的。
In an interview with this magazine, he believed that the new crown epidemic, in particular the need to strengthen social psychological guidance and intervention, "in 2003 SARS caused a direct expenditure on health care, only a small part of the overall socio-economic losses, and most other economic activities, including related livelihood, production and other economic activities affected by it, are due to a series of excessive chain reactions from individuals to social groups and inappropriate psychological behavior.
”记者 | 陈璐三联生活周刊：身处抗疫一线的医护人员很多出现了情绪波动甚至崩溃的问题，根据您在非典期间的经验，该如何应对？高文斌：严重的公共卫生事件发生后，最早介入的医护人员，因为休息时间不够，替换人员也不够，工作时间长、强度大，一系列压抑、恐惧的心理反应会出现。
Chen Lu Lianlian Weekly: Many health workers on the frontline of the epidemic have experienced mood swings and even crashes, and according to your experience during SARS, the earliest medical personnel to intervene after a serious public health event have had insufficient rest periods, inadequate replacement staff, long and intense working hours and a series of depressive and fearful psychological reactions.
这次武汉情况也类似，所以现在全国组织力量及时派出医疗队伍支援。
This time Wuhan situation is similar, so now the national organizational strength timely dispatch medical team support.
远征 摄目前这个时间节点，医护人员比较多会出现两种心理问题。
Expeditionary photography at this point in time, more medical staff will appear two psychological problems.
一种是有的医护人员产生放弃心理。
One is that some health-care workers give up.
当时在北京最早一批隔离医院里，有医护人员在污染区扯掉防护面罩，觉得反正也搞不清楚怎么办，还不如先好好喘口气，这就很危险。
At the earliest quarantined hospitals in Beijing, paramedics ripped the face shield off the contaminated area and decided it was dangerous to take a deep breath after all.
还有一种是医护人员对自己的价值感产生质疑。
Another is that health care workers question their own sense of worth.
在很多不可控的情况下，尤其是年轻的医护人员，可能会觉得干这个事情没什么用，看不到希望。
In a lot of uncontrollable situations, especially young health care workers, it may seem useless and hopeless to do this.
根据抗击非典的经验，建议发挥一些经验丰富、信任感强的医护人员的行为示范作用，例如高年资的护士长，在团队中会起到很好的效果。
Based on the experience in fighting SARS, it is suggested that a number of experienced and trusted health-care workers, such as senior nurses, should serve as role models in the team.
他们甚至可以不进污染区，只在外围换衣服、消毒的过程中做一些事情，同样可以起到示范和稳定军心的作用。
They can even do something about changing clothes and disinfecting on the outside without going into the contaminated area, which can also serve as a model and a stabilizing influence.
远征 摄三联生活周刊：患者面对医疗资源紧张、看病难的情况可能会出现一些冲动行为，这是患者心理问题的一种典型反映吗？高文斌：我认为极端事件还是少数。
Vice Minister Jiang Zengwei Meets Vice President of the Chinese University of Political Science (CPC) in Beijing (1)
虽然出现了个别患者的冲动行为，但面对不配合治疗的应对效果应该会比非典时期有所好转。
Although there are individual patients impulsive behavior, but in the face of uncoordinated treatment response should be better than SARS period.
根据非典时期经验，患者不配合往往是因为对于病的描述和预期不是很清楚，再加上本身的病痛症状，但这一次因为有了前车之鉴，医护人员在应对过程中会做出相应解释和说明。
According to the SARS experience, patients often do not cooperate because their descriptions and expectations of the disease are not clear, plus their own symptoms, but this time, because of the lessons learned, medical staff will respond accordingly.
另一方面，也和重症患者的年龄有关。
On the other hand, it is related to the age of the seriously ill.
非典期间不少重症患者都是青壮年，这个年龄段本身生命力很活跃，突然间这么大一个反差，自己不太能够接受，容易引起冲突。
SARS period is a lot of severe patients are young adults, this age itself is very active, suddenly so large a contrast, their own less acceptable, easy to cause conflict.
虽然这次疫情的数据到目前还不是很准确，但通过刚刚这一周的情况来看，重症患者集中在年龄相对较大的老人和年纪较小的儿童（低龄儿童患者一般偏向参考重症关注治疗），需要提醒家属理性对待。
Although data on the epidemic are not yet accurate, the week just past suggests that severe cases are concentrated in older older people and younger children (younger children tend to refer to intensive care) and need to be treated more sensitively.
远征 摄为了应对此类事件的发生，我们建议医院在医护人员上岗前和遇到突发事件后，提供专门的心理帮助。
Expeditionary measures To deal with such incidents, we recommend that hospitals provide specialized psychological help before and after medical personnel take office.
另外，一定要在患者入院时进行心理健康教育，这部分工作平时在正规的医院也都有，但在这个特殊的时期，告诉患者可能发生的事情、如何自我调节、遇到情况找专人寻求帮助，就更重要。
In addition, it is important to provide mental health education at the time of admission, which is also common in regular hospitals, but at this particular time it is all the more important to tell the patient what is possible, how to regulate himself or herself, and to call someone for help in case of trouble.
这一次新冠疫情中，患者否认和回避等心理问题较为突出，这也是为什么好多人跑，甚至躲起来的原因。
This time around, psychological problems such as denial and avoidance are more prominent, which is why so many people run and even hide.
这其实造成了很多治疗上的耽误，甚至更大范围的污染。
This has resulted in many treatment delays and even greater contamination.
如果患者能够认同这个疾病需要治疗，就能恢复到一个正常心态。
If patients can identify with the disease and need treatment, they can return to a normal state of mind.
三联生活周刊：情绪问题会对患者的病情造成影响吗？高文斌：我们当时很快发现，有些病人症状的加重或者说是不稳定，跟他的情绪状态关系很大。
WILLIAMS: Can emotional problems affect a patient's illnessGawain: We quickly learned that some patients' symptoms get worse, or are unstable, and it has a lot to do with his emotional state.
人身上有很多交叉的神经系统，呼吸既是这个疾病的主要症状，又是受情绪影响最大、最直接的一套系统。
The human body has many crosses of the nervous system, breathing is not only the main symptom of the disease, but also the most affected by emotion, the most direct set of systems.
病人一旦恐惧紧张，就会有种喘不上气儿的感觉，实际上他本来也喘不上气，这就加重和混淆了一些状态。
When a patient is nervous, he feels short of breath. In fact, he may not be able to breathe. This adds to and confuses some states.
所以我们送了一大批材料去小汤山医院，病人可以规律性地听10分钟到20分钟，自己做呼吸训练来辅助治疗。
So we sent a large number of materials to Xiaotangshan Hospital, patients can regularly listen to 10 minutes to 20 minutes, their own breathing training to assist treatment.
远征 摄三联生活周刊：非典时期，医生和病人的心理问题是怎么得到改善的？高文斌：北京小汤山医院真正运转起来以后，情况就好了很多。
How did doctors and patients' psychological problems improve during SARS period? Gao Wenbin: After the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital actually became operational, the situation improved a lot.
首先基础的物资保障基本到位，流程也越来越清晰，医护人员更多开始琢磨一些临床的个体诊疗，具体到每个病人的细化方案，患者也对自己的状况有了心理准备，大家能够回归到正常状态。
First of all, the basic material security is in place, the process is becoming clearer, the medical staff began to ponder over some clinical individual diagnosis and treatment, specific to each patient's detailed plan, patients are also prepared for their own situation, people can return to normal.
并且，北京小汤山医院当时还调了一批部队医院心理科、中科院心理所等机构的人员，去帮助前线医患人员。
In addition, Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital at that time also transferred a number of military hospitals psychological departments, the Chinese Academy of Sciences psychological institutes and other institutions to help front-line medical personnel.
现在据我了解，武汉医务人员配备的队伍里面，也已经有了心理科或者精神科的医生。
As far as I know, Wuhan medical staff of the team, there have also been psychological or psychiatric doctors.
目前武汉疫情的防控问题仍是第一位的，但在国家卫健委疾病预防控制局的详细诊疗方案中，有关心理干预的部分已经出来了，情况应该会逐渐好转。
The prevention and control of the Wuhan epidemic is still the number one problem, but in the detailed diagnosis and treatment programme of the State Sanitary and Health Commission's disease prevention and control bureau, the section on psychological intervention has come out, and the situation should gradually improve.
三联生活周刊：武汉这次的疫情扩散比非典时更严重，公众普遍产生了焦虑情绪，该如何缓解？远征 摄高文斌：现在倡议大家戴口罩，见面不握手，一段时间过去，就可能会养成习惯，那么我们和人交往的亲密方式就会发生变化。
The spread of the epidemic in Wuhan is more serious than that of SARS, and there is widespread anxiety in the public.Expedition: Now we advocate wearing masks and not shaking hands, over a period of time, we may form habits, and the way we interact with people will change.
尤其是，现在公众将武汉市甚至整个湖北地区都视作“疫区”，对这些地区来的人，会产生一种“心理距离”的加大，影响正常的社会来往。
In particular, Wuhan city and even the whole Hubei area is now regarded as "epidemic area" by the public, and people from these areas will have a "psychological distance" to increase, affecting normal social contacts.
“心理距离”是社会心理学的一个基础概念，主要影响因素是信任感、亲密程度和安全感。
"Psychological distance" is a basic concept in social psychology. The main influencing factors are trust, closeness and security.
如果简单折算成物理空间，就是根据我们和一个人熟悉程度的不同，谈话时保持的空间距离会不一样。
If simply converted into physical space, it is based on how familiar we are with a person, the space to maintain a conversation will be different.
目前属于严控期间，多数人还没什么感觉。
For the time being, most people don't feel very well.
但过一阵子开始上班，单位里严防死守，人们的心理距离突然拉大，那么你的孤立感或者不安全感就会增加。
But after a while, when you start to work, when your work unit is strictly guarded and people's psychological distance suddenly increases, your sense of isolation or insecurity increases.
所以有关政府机关和大型企事业单位应该开始有序地应对新型冠状病毒，做好至少一到两个月的过渡引导，帮助大家平衡工作和生活。
Therefore, relevant government organs and large-scale enterprises and institutions should start to respond to the new coronavirus in an orderly manner, and guide the transition for at least one to two months to help balance work and life.
三联生活周刊：很多地方还出现超市扫空、口罩疯抢的情况，怎么办？高文斌：如果之前没经历过这类突发疫情，民众心态肯定很难平稳。
Three Lives Weekly: Many places also appear the supermarket sweeps, the mask crashes situation, how to do? Gao Wenbin: If had not experienced this kind of outbreak before, the populace mentality certainly cannot be stable.
政府能做到的是对基本物质的保障和宣传，要对居民的一些生活必需品有所承诺。
What the Government is able to do is to guarantee and publicize basic goods and make a commitment to the basic necessities of life of the population.
其实整个国家的生产没有受到重大影响，正常的物资保障没问题，现在是民众需求过度。
In fact, the entire country's production has not been significantly affected, normal material security is no problem, is now excessive demand.
远征 摄举个例子，每个超市都有它自己的备货周期，都是按照平常的货量计算。
As an example of an expedition, every supermarket has its own lead time, which is based on the normal volume of goods.
比如盐，备货量可能只够人们一周均匀地去购买，但由于疫情，大家突然在一天就把盐买空了，备货周期不够，第二天去肯定还是没有，恐慌这个时候就出现了。
Salt, for example, may only be available in enough quantities for a week to be bought evenly, but because of the outbreak, salt is suddenly sold out in one day, the lead time is not enough and the next day is definitely not there. Panic sets in.
口罩也是一样，14亿中国人原来才多少人戴口罩，现在突然每个人都戴，不断货才怪。
The same is true of face masks, which used to be worn by only 1.4 billion Chinese. Now suddenly everyone is wearing them.
所以对社会心态的疏导需要具体化，从油盐酱醋茶开始引导，越具体老百姓越踏实。
Therefore, the social mentality of the need to crystallize, from the oil and salt sauce vinegar tea began to guide, the more concrete the people.
三联生活周刊：现在社会上出现了各种过激反应，像很多地区为了抗疫，断掉各种交通要道，您怎么看？高文斌：社会公众的心理问题，可以分为三个阶段。
What do you think of the drastic social reactions, such as the cutting off of major transportation routes in many areas in order to fight the epidemic? Gao Wenbin: The social and psychological problems can be divided into three stages.
第一个阶段是疫情刚开始时，人们觉得事不关己，自我防护意识不强；第二个阶段是开始出现过激反应；第三个阶段，心理问题会开始增多，情况出现分化，甚至不一定和疫情相关。
In the first phase, when the epidemic began, people felt unconnected and self-defensive; in the second phase, there was an overreaction; in the third phase, psychological problems began to increase and the situation became polarized, not even necessarily related to the outbreak.
现在我们正处在第二个阶段。
Now we are in the second phase.
前两天交通部、公安部都出面说不要断路，不要妨碍正常的运输出行，这是因为社会上已经出现了过激反应，不少地方把村和村、县和县都断开了。
The Ministry of Communications and the Ministry of Public Security had come forward two days earlier to refrain from cutting off roads and disrupting normal transport travel because of the extreme social reaction that had cut off villages and villages, counties and counties.
我们需要明确，用障碍物、刨坑这些物理性方式断路和我们现在所说的暂停公共交通减少疫情扩散，是完全两回事。
We need to be clear that cutting roads in the physical way with obstacles, shafts, and what we now call a moratorium on public transport to reduce the spread of the epidemic is quite different.
在不存在相关风险的情况下，封路意义不大，应该加强的是检疫和人员鉴别。
In the absence of associated risks, road closures do not make much sense, but quarantine and personal identification should be strengthened.
中国这么大一个国家，交通运输既是经济活动的重要组成，也是大家生活的必需品。
In a country as large as China, transportation is not only an important part of economic activities, but also a necessity for people's life.
这些自保行为扩大化后，对正常的经济和生活会造成风险。
The expansion of these self-insurance behavior, the normal economy and life will be a risk.
现在还处于前期防疫阶段，从防疫的角度来讲肯定要严管，但每个人应该从自己出发去判断这个度的边界在哪。
Is still in the pre-epidemic phase, from the point of view of epidemic prevention must be strict, but everyone should start from their own to judge where the degree of the boundary.
2003年非典造成的医疗直接支出，只占整个社会经济损失中的一小部分，其他大部分，包括相关生活、生产和受其影响的其他经济活动，都是由于从个人到社会群体的一系列过激连锁反应，以及一些不恰当的心理行为导致的。
Direct expenditure on health care caused by SARS in 2003 accounted for only a small part of the overall socio-economic losses, while most of the rest, including associated livelihoods, production and other economic activities affected by it, were the result of a series of excessive chain reactions from individuals to social groups, as well as inappropriate psychological behaviour.
所以这次我们一直在强调心理干预不只是针对医生和患者，从公共应急事件角度讲，应该高度重视对整个社会心理的干预，帮助社会公众回归常态。
So this time we have been emphasizing that psychological intervention is not just for doctors and patients. From the point of view of public emergency, we should attach great importance to the psychological intervention of the whole society and help the public return to normal.
远征 摄三联生活周刊：公众如何判断自己是否应该寻求心理干预的帮助？高文斌：第一，是不是对事情过度集中聚焦，就是你是不是不能一分钟不看手机，不能错过任何新消息；第二，是不是有情绪上的失控，如果你最近感觉整个情绪总是特别的焦虑、紧张，不能控制；第三，正常的生活节奏是不是打乱了，该睡觉不睡觉，该做事不做事。
How should the public judge whether they should seek the help of psychological intervention? Gao Wenbin: First, whether you should focus too much on things, whether you can't ignore your cell phone for a minute and miss any new information. Second, whether you are emotionally out of control if you have been feeling particularly anxious, tense and out of control recently.
这几点如果有的话，我建议你去寻求心理干预。
If there are any, I suggest you seek psychological intervention.
疫情心理援助电话武汉市精神卫生中心：027-85844666湖北省心理咨询协会：15342296955华中师范大学心理学院：027-59427263北京师范大学心理学部：4001-888-976清华大学心理学系：400-680-6101作者档案陈璐因为一切。
Wuhan City Mental Health Center: 027-85844666 Hubei Psychology Association: 15342296955 College of Psychology, Central China Normal University: 027-59427263 Department of Psychology, Beijing Normal University: 4001-888-976 Tsinghua University, Department of Psychology: 4001-888-976.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@陈美禹请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Jian Lifei 26 minutes ago individual Weibo: @ Chen Mei Yu, Jian Lifei New Crown Pneumonia series article copyright by the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
陈璐。
Lu Chen.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
专访高文斌：疫情期间心理建设尤其重要。
Interview with Gao Wenbin: Psychological construction is especially important during epidemic period.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "专访高文斌：疫情期间心理建设尤其重要";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; during the outbreak.
var msg_desc = "2003年非典造成的医疗直接支出，只占整个社会经济损失中的一小部分，其他大部分，包括相关生活、生产和受其影响的其他经济活动，都是由于从个人到社会群体的一系列过激连锁反应，以及一些不恰当的心理行为导致的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; direct spending on health care by SARS in 2003 accounted for only a fraction of the overall socio-economic losses, while most others, including associated livelihoods, production and other economic activities affected by it, were the result of a chain reaction ranging from individuals to social groups and inappropriate psychological behaviour.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
