是他们在救助留守武汉的动物​。
They are saving animals left behind in Wuhan.
陈璐。
Lu Chen.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
“不管求助的家庭有多少，都不能让动物绝望地死在自己熟悉的环境里。
"No matter how many families turn to for help, no animal should die in despair in its familiar surroundings.
”记者 | 陈璐实习记者 | 赵怡宁特殊时期的上门援助1月25日武汉封城的第三天，武汉市小动物保护协会（简称武小协）的会长杜帆在协会群里询问，现在有很多因为主人回不来，留守在武汉的宠物，武小协能不能去做上门喂养，以免留守动物渴死、饿死。
At the end of the third day of Wuhan on 25 January, Du Fan, head of Wuhan Small Animals Protection Association, asked if there were many pets left behind in Wuhan because their owners couldn't come back.
这很快遭到了大家的反对。
This was soon met with general opposition.
毕竟没人知道到底有多少小动物在等待救援，外面的疫情究竟有多严重。
After all, no one knows how many small animals are waiting to be rescued and how serious the outbreak is outside.
而且，上门喂养会不会增加感染风险，开锁入户会不会引起法律纠纷？到了第二天，杜帆突然在群里开会，说他收到了差不多50个家庭的求助，“这个事情必须要做了”。
Moreover, would door-to-door feeding increase the risk of infection, and would the opening of locks lead to legal disputes? The next day, Du Fan suddenly held a meeting in the group and said that he had received help from almost 50 families.
“我当时觉得他想得太理想了，不可能只有50家。
"I thought he was too idealistic to have only 50.
”武小协的干部小张向本刊回忆道。
Xiao Zhang, a cadre of the association, recalled to the magazine.
虽然小张在群里委婉指出，数量可能需要在50的基础上乘以10，但杜帆还是果断要求所有成员迅速准备微信推文，安排工作。
Although Xiao Zhang gently pointed out in the group that the number might need to be multiplied by 10 on the basis of 50, Du Fan resolutely asked all members to prepare tweets quickly and organize their work.
当天下午4点多，武小协的官方微信推送了一条消息《猫狗留在武汉的主人们，可以联系我们》，愿意无偿为武汉宠物主上门救助宠物。
At 4: 00 pm that day, Wu Xiaoxiao's official micro-letter pushed a message "Cats and dogs in Wuhan owners, you can contact us," willing to pro-poor pet owners in Wuhan home to rescue pets.
微信推文中还按区域划分附上了汉口、汉阳和武昌三镇的微信群二维码，结果不到一个小时，三个微信群共计600人，立刻就加满了。
The two-dimensional codes of Hankou, Hanyang and Wuchang towns were also attached to the micro-letter tweets by region. The result was less than an hour, and the three micro-groups, totalling 600 people, were immediately full.
截至到2月5日，3个微信群、2个QQ群和一份援助登记表，向他们求助的加起来差不多有快5000人。
As at 5 February, three micro-groups, two QQ clusters and an assistance registration form had been approached by almost 5,000 people combined.
留守的动物中，最多的是猫和狗，尤其猫了占大多数，其他还有比如仓鼠、龙猫、鹦鹉、乌龟、金鱼和小香猪。
Cats and dogs, especially cats, make up the majority of the animals left behind, along with other animals such as hamsters, dragons, parrots, tortoises, goldfish and little pigs.
武小协制作的相关求助名单。
The relevant help list made by Wu Xiaoxiao.
发出推送后不久，即收到2800多条求助信息。
Shortly after the launch, more than 2,800 requests for help were received.
“从后来两天的帮扶情况来看，如果我们不去，很多人家里的动物肯定会饿死、渴死。
"Over the next two days, if we don't go, many of the animals in our homes will die of hunger and thirst.
我们很能理解杜帆的心情。
We can understand Du Fan's mood very well.
不管求助的家庭有多少，都不能让动物绝望地死在自己熟悉的环境里。
No matter how many families turn to for help, animals cannot die in despair in their familiar surroundings.
”小张感慨地告诉本刊。
"Xiao Zhang told the print with emotion.
实际上，武小协也确实碰到过这样的悲惨情况。
In fact, Wusai did encounter such a tragic situation.
有次他们接到一个紧急任务，委托人是湖北周边地区的人，因为原本只是计划回去三天，就把怀孕的母猫留在了武汉家中，结果现在回不来了，母猫却马上要生产，他十分担心，便委托武小协上门看看情况。
Once they received an urgent mission, the client is from the surrounding areas of Hubei Province, because the original plan was to return home only three days ago, the pregnant mother cat left home in Wuhan, but now can not return, the mother cat is about to give birth, he was very worried, so he commissioned Wushao to look at the situation.
等到杜帆和武小协的义工小伟赶过去，发现母猫已经分娩，有两只小奶猫死掉了。
When Du Fan and Wu Xiaojun volunteer Xiaowei rushed to find that the mother cat has given birth, two of the kittens died.
任其发展下去，无疑会对现有的疫情雪上加霜。
If left unchecked, it will no doubt add to the existing epidemic.
最后，他们清理了现场，为母猫补充了食物和水，并将两只死亡的奶猫送去火化。
Finally, they cleaned up the scene, fed and watered the mother cat and cremated the two dead cats.
“不过据我了解，这次的大部分求助家庭，只要为宠物准备充足的水和粮食，维持一到两周不会有什么问题。
"But as far as I know, most families will have no problem getting enough water and food for their pets for a week or two.
”武小协负责大学生志愿者工作的黄晓跃向本刊介绍，宠物长期自己待在家里，可能比较多见的是出现眼垢和尿道的问题，他们在上门时也会携带一些常见的滴耳朵、滴眼睛和喷剂等基本药品，看情况给小动物使用一些。
Huang Xiaoyue, who is in charge of volunteer work for university students, told the magazine that pets stay at home for long periods of time. Problems with eye wax and urethra may be more common.
如果真的有比较严重的事态，再和宠主一起想办法。
If there is a more serious situation, then with the Favourite to find a way.
“还算比较幸运的是，因为武小协每年都有请流浪动物吃年夜饭的活动，所以这次刚好储备了一定量的猫粮狗粮，还可以维持一段时间，等待物流的恢复。
"Fortunately, because every year Wuxiao association has invited stray animals to eat New Year's Eve dinner activities, so just a certain amount of cat and dog food stocks, can be maintained for a while, waiting for logistics to recover.
”武小协上门均为2人一组行动，一人负责补充食物、饮水、清洁，另一人负责全程视频连线求助者。
Wu Xiaoxiao came in groups of two, one to supplement food, water and cleaning, and the other to help with the video link.
在巨大的需求下，最大的问题是人手的不足。
In the huge demand, the biggest problem is the shortage of manpower.
小张告诉本刊，每天涌入的消息太多，其中很多可能并不是真的很紧急。
Zhang told the magazine that the daily influx of news is too much, many of which may not be really urgent.
“家中有人的情况，我们不会卖给他们，更不可能送货上门。
"We don't sell it to people in their homes, much less have it delivered to them.
缺猫粮狗粮，我们会建议他们先去大点的超市看看，一般都有，虽然品质不会很好，但聊胜于无。
Shortage of cat and dog food, we will recommend them to go to a larger supermarket to see, generally have, although the quality will not be very good, but better than nothing.
或者建议他们用自己家储备的肉，清水煮了以后应急吃。
Or suggest that they use their own family reserve of meat, boiled water after emergency eating.
缺猫砂，就用宠物尿不湿，再不济，处理过的面条也行。
Shortage of cat sand, use pet pee not wet, again not good, treated noodles can also be.
之前有人找协会买巅峰的狗粮，巅峰狗粮130元一斤，协会怎么可能有。
Some people before the association to buy peak dog food, peak dog food 130 yuan a catty, how can the association have.
还有些武汉周边城市的也会来找协会买物资，自己家的动物也找协会收留，这些不切实际的请求越来越多。
Some Wuhan peripheral cities will also come to the Association to buy supplies, their own animals also find shelter, these unrealistic requests more and more.
其实如果能先找到亲戚、朋友暂时照顾是最好的，找不到的话，现在封城，我们在外地，也帮不上。
In fact, if we can find relatives, friends temporarily care is the best, if not, now closure, we are not in the field, can not help.
”为了快速匹配解决真正紧急的需求，他们连同志愿者一起分成三个小组分头负责：上门情况比较紧急的家庭帮扶；回复、匹配微信群和QQ群里，需要帮扶、开锁师傅和上门帮忙的人员信息；电话核实，问题是否有解决。
In order to quickly match the real emergency needs, they split up into three groups with volunteers: Home Help, which is in a more critical situation; Response, Matching Micromail Groups and QQ Groups, which require help, information about unlocks and people who come to help; and telephone checks to see if the problem has been solved.
但在前线喂养的主要还是武小协核心的八到十个成员，“毕竟涉及到陌生人上门，中间会有一个信任的问题。
But the front-line feeding is still the Wusai core of eight to ten members, "after all, involving strangers, there will be a question of trust.
”黄晓跃和本刊记者说，现在和志愿者一起，武小协平均每天大概能解决60家左右，“很多时候我们收到电话，会说我们已经在出动，我们在路上。
Huang and his correspondent said the association now works with volunteers, averaging about 60 a day. "A lot of times we get calls saying we're out there, we're on our way.
我们的确在路上，但有时候我们真的忙不开。
We are on our way, but sometimes we are really busy.
”拯救尿血小猫土猫群是武汉本地的民间猫友同好会。
"Cats to save urine and blood kittens is the local Wuhan folk cat good association.
作为土猫群资深群友的李妍，和往常的假期一样，在年前就接下了五单帮假期出游或返乡的主人上门喂猫的请求。
Like her usual holiday, Li Yan, a longtime friend of the local cat community, accepted a request five times a year ago for a group of family members to visit and feed their cats.
按照群里的统一规定，每单150元，超过两只猫咪的一只加价50元，每位上门喂猫人不得随意修改。
In accordance with the group's uniform rules, each 150 yuan, more than two cats a mark-up price of 50 yuan, each door-feeding cat may not be arbitrarily modified.
武汉封城后，其中两家取消了原本的订单。
Wuhan after the closure of two of the original order cancelled.
与此同时，武汉土猫群中有关上门喂猫的求助暴增400多例，但价格没变，李妍接下其中了一单。
Meanwhile, Wuhan native cats in the crowd closed door to feed cats in more than 400 cases, but the price has not changed, Li Yan took one of them.
刘畅是李妍年初一上门喂养的第三家的宠主。
Liu Chang is Li Yan's junior year first door feeding third family pet.
按照刘畅的原计划，他腊月二十七离家，四天后李妍登门，补充猫粮和水、更换猫砂盆，等初五他从广西探亲回来后，猫咪会在门口排排坐欢迎他回家。
According to Liu Chang's original plan, he left home on July 27, four days later, Li Yan door, to supplement cat food and water, replacement of cat sand basin, and so on the fifth day of his visit from Guangxi, cats will sit in the doorway to welcome him home.
刘畅自认为安排妥当，猫咪足够乖巧听话，委托人也值得信任，没有什么令人担心。
Liu Chang thinks the arrangement is appropriate, the cat is clever enough to listen, the client is trustworthy, there is nothing to worry about.
但封城打乱了所有计划。
But the blockade upset all plans.
晚上六点，将其他两家猫咪照料好后，李妍冒着小雨步行了一公里走到刘畅家。
At 6 p. m., after taking care of the other two cats, Li Yan walked a kilometer to Liu Changjia's house in the light rain.
刘畅的两只猫咪她都见过，一只个头大些，是只英短蓝猫，叫麻团，另一只个头小胆子也小，是只黑色土猫，叫泡芙。
Liu Chang's two cats she had seen, a bigger one, is English short blue cat, called the mahjong, another small coward also small, is a black earth cat, called puff.
进门后，李妍发现两只猫咪正端坐在门口探头看她，她拍了一张照片发给刘畅，告知他自己已经到达。
After entering the door, Li found two cats sitting at the door looking at her. She took a picture and sent it to Liu Chang, telling him that she had arrived.
泡芙遵照刘畅在微信中的指引，李妍开始一步步为两只小猫添水补粮。
Puff in accordance with Liu Chang in the micro-letter guidelines, Li Yan began to step by step for the two kittens to replenish food.
麻团和泡芙十分文静温顺，家里稍显杂乱但一切正常。
The mahjong and puff are quiet and docile, and the house is a little messy but normal.
唯一有些奇怪的是，泡芙在她进门后就跑到床边躲了起来。
The only strange thing about her was that she ran to the bed and hid herself when she came in.
刘畅建议李妍把泡芙抱到猫包里，希望比较熟悉的封闭环境能让它放松一些，但泡芙在李妍怀中挣扎得十分剧烈，对自己最爱的罐头也没了以往的兴致。
Liu advised Li to carry Puff into her cat bag in the hope that the familiar enclosure would make her feel more relaxed, but she struggled fiercely in Li's arms and lost interest in her favorite can.
微信两头的两个人都有些纳闷，泡芙虽然胆子小，但也不至于到这种程度。
At both ends of the line, the two men wondered that Puff, though timid, would not be so bold.
李妍在猫砂盆中发现了异样，猫砂中掺杂着些许血尿。
Li found something unusual in the litter pan of the cat, which was doped with blood and urine.
这是以前从来没有出现过的症状，虽然看上去不是特别严重，刘畅依然有些紧张，便和李妍约定先观察一天，如果初三她再次登门，看到情况恶化，就送去就诊。
Although Liu Chang was still nervous, she and Li had agreed to observe the day before. If she returned on the third day of the month, she would see the situation deteriorate and send for a doctor.
到了初三，猫砂盆的情况恶化了，带血的结块大量增多，必须送去医院。
By the third day of junior high, the condition of the litter pan had deteriorated, and blood clumps had increased considerably and had to be taken to hospital.
麻团然而李妍没有私家车，交通管制之后，武汉停止运行了所有公共交通。
However, Li Yan did not have a private car, after traffic control, Wuhan stopped running all public transport.
刘畅在土猫群中发布了求助信息，30分钟之后，住在十几公里外的一位男士接下了这份求助。
Liu Chang posted a message of help among the cats, and 30 minutes later, a man living more than 10 kilometers away took the call.
与此同时，李妍迅速用一个宜家购物袋把两只猫咪的生活用品打包好，再抱上两只近7斤的猫咪，将几乎有30斤重的东西从刘畅家的10层运到楼下。
Li, meanwhile, quickly packed up two kittens' belongings in an IKEA shopping bag and lifted two cats, nearly seven catties in their arms, carrying nearly 30 weights from the 10th floor to the downstairs of Liu's house.
40分钟后，这位好心的车主将两只猫咪送达到一家还在营业的宠物医院。
Forty minutes later, the well-meaning owner took the cats to a still open pet hospital.
经过检查，泡芙确诊为自发性膀胱炎，输液后症状好转了许多，血迹基本消失。
After examination, puff diagnosed as spontaneity cystitis, transfusion symptoms improved a lot, blood stains basically disappeared.
医生建议不要将泡芙寄养在医院，因为猫咪领地意识强，容易出现应激性症状。
Doctors advised not to foster Puff in a hospital because cats have a strong sense of territory and are prone to stress symptoms.
在观察两天确定无异常之后，刘畅只能再次拜托李妍帮忙两只猫咪后续的喂养工作，大概每隔5到7日上门照看。
After two days of observation to see if there were any abnormalities, Liu Chang had to ask Li to help with the cat's follow-up, probably every five to seven days.
喂养周期在土猫群中原本建议为2到3天，但是特殊时期，上门人只能在每一次登门时将水粮尽量加满。
The feeding cycle had originally been recommended for two to three days in the native cat population, but during special periods the doorman could only fill the water and food as much as possible on each visit.
因为没有人知道，下次自己是否还能如期履约。
Because no one knows whether they will be able to comply with the next time.
夜晚的柯基犬剖腹产手术接到同事打来的剖腹产电话时，武汉联合动物医院的医生何俊才回家躺下没一会儿。
Wuhan United Animal Hospital doctor He Juncai went home and lay down for a while when he received a cesarean section from a colleague at night.
这天前，何俊早上四五点才忙完，回去睡了一觉，第二天早上九点多又开始接诊，晚上九点多才回家。
Before that day, He Jun was busy at 4 or 5 in the morning. He went back to bed.
连续两天都没睡好。
I haven't slept well for two days.
但听到一只柯基犬需要剖腹产，半夜十二点，他又迅速爬了起来，跑到医院。
But when he heard that a Koki needed a Caesarean section, he quickly got up at midnight and ran to the hospital.
来到医院的是一对母女，封城当天夜里，她们抱着自家的柯基敲开了武汉联合动物医院的大门，看起来非常着急。
A mother and daughter came to the hospital. They appeared very worried when they knocked on the door of Wuhan United Animal Hospital that night with their own Kirky.
柯基的羊水已经破了，可就一直生不出来。
Koki's amniotic fluid is broken, but it never comes out.
值班医生检查后发现这只柯基难产，需要做剖腹产手术。
The doctor on duty examined it and found it difficult to give birth and needed a Caesarean section.
正常而言，一场狗的剖腹产手术需要4个人，一个主任医师，一个麻醉监护师、一个手术第一助手，还有一个外援。
Normally, a cesarean section of a dog requires four people, a chief physician, an anesthesiologist, a first-aid surgical assistant, and a foreign aid.
但因为过年，许多员工都放假回家，医院的人手也不充裕。
But because of the New Year holiday, many employees go home, the hospital is not sufficient staff.
平日里一般医院里都有二十个人，这段时间就只剩下六个人，可是工作量相比平日，虽然轻症病宠有所减少，但来的往往都是重危症的急诊，需要动手术，更加耗费心神。
There were usually twenty people in the general hospital, and there were only six of them during this period, but the workload, though less frequent than usual, tended to come in the form of acute and critical emergencies that required surgery and were even more demanding.
当天晚上，三个人来负责这台手术就显得有些手忙脚乱，每个人都得兼顾好几件事情。
The fact that three men were in charge of the operation that evening was a bit of a hassle. Everyone had to take care of several things.
两个小时后，这只柯基顺利生下了三个宝宝，何俊这才感到松下一口气。
He breathed a sigh of relief when, two hours later, the Koki gave birth to three babies.
但是事情还没有做完，三个人又开始给它们做术后的监护以及输液，最终忙到了清晨四点多才结束。
But before this was done, the three men began to perform post-operative monitoring and transfusion, and were finally busy until well over four in the morning.
“本来值班留两个人也是够的，但封城后许多宠物医院关门，之前全武汉那么多病历量一下子全集中到我们这边，加上我们人员也不足，确实比较吃力。
"It was enough to keep two people on duty, but after the closure of many pet hospitals, the previous Wuhan so much medical records have been concentrated on our side, coupled with our inadequate staff, really more difficult.
”何俊告诉本刊，他是湖北荆州人，本来到初七，就该轮到他休假了，但是回老家的同事没办法回来，他只能继续值班照顾还在住院的动物，没有休息。
He told the magazine that he was from Jingzhou, Hubei Province, and that it was his turn to go on holiday, but his colleagues back home could not come back.
柯基与宝宝联合动物医院是武汉一家连锁型动物医院，在武汉三镇共有五家店面，全年无休。
Kuki and Baby United Animal Hospital is a Wuhan chain of animal hospitals, in Wuhan three towns have five storefront, all year round.
封城后，其他宠物医院纷纷关门，联合动物医院还是坚持营业了一段时间。
After the closure of the city, other pet hospitals have closed, the United Animal Hospital or adhere to business for some time.
但1月30日，政府下发通知要求所有的宠物医院暂停营业。
However, on 30 January, the Government issued a circular requesting all pet hospitals to suspend operations.
联合动物医院无奈也只能选择暂停原有住院之外的一切业务。
United Animal Hospital can only choose to suspend all but the original hospital operations.
“原则上我们肯定希望能救治每一只动物，”其负责人汪喆在接受本刊采访时说，“所以我们在朋友圈里对外表示，我们可以提供一个远程电话，24小时地放到值班医生手上，能够给你远程建议的，你就在家里处理。
"In principle, we want to treat every animal," Wang Zhe, director of Zhe Wang, told the magazine. "So we can offer a long-distance call, put it in the hands of the doctor on duty 24 hours a day, and if you can give you remote advice, you can do it at home
不过远程会诊提供的治疗肯定是有限的，既无法提供准确的诊断，也不能开具药方。
However, the treatment provided by tele-consultations is certainly limited and does not provide an accurate diagnosis or prescription.
”而如果是不能在家处理的紧急情况，那些生病的动物又该如何自救？汪喆遗憾表示，“那也没有办法，只能呼吁政府能够出台更具体的细则。
"If it's an emergency that can't be handled from home, how can sick animals save themselves?" Wang said regretfully, "There's no alternative but to call on the government to come up with more specific rules.
”汪喆最近和同事们做的另一项重要工作，是对宠物并不会传染新型冠性病毒的科普。
Another important task Wang Zhe has recently done with his colleagues is popularizing the science that pets aren't infected with the new coronary virus.
他说最近医院接到很多电话，都是咨询宠物身上有没有携带病毒，会不会传染给人，这种情况下饲养的宠物该怎么办。
He said the hospital has received many calls recently asking pets if they carry the virus, if they can infect people, and what to do with their pets.
所以他们在医院的公众号上连续推送了好几篇相关的科普文章，希望大家对于自己的伴侣动物能够更加冷静地思考，不要随便弃养。
So they ran several popular science articles on the hospital's public address, hoping everyone would think calmly about their partner and not abandon them.
“但也不是对宠物完全就不防范了，为什么？因为你出去遛狗，它会在环境里到处闻，有可能会把人的病毒带回来。
"But it's not entirely unguarded for pets, so why? Because you walk your dog, it smells around in the environment and could bring back the virus.
”汪喆向本刊强调，“所以我们建议第一尽量少出去；第二，出去以后带个绳子，控制它的活动范围，然后回家之前对宠物进行消毒。
"So we recommend going out as little as possible. Second, take a piece of string with you to control its range, and then disinfect the pet before returning home.
”作者档案陈璐因为一切。
Author's file, Chen Lu, because of everything.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@陈美禹请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Jian Lifei 26 minutes ago individual Weibo: @ Chen Mei Yu, Jian Lifei New Crown Pneumonia series article copyright by the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
陈璐。
Lu Chen.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
是他们在救助留守武汉的动物​。
They are saving animals left behind in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "是他们在救助留守武汉的动物​";。
var msg _ title = & quot; They were at Ren & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "不管求助的家庭有多少，都不能让动物绝望地死在自己熟悉的环境里。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no matter how many families have asked for help, no animal should die in despair in its familiar surroundings.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
