疫情新闻汇总 2.7。
Summary of epidemic news 2.7.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
根据丁香医生实时数据，截至 2020 年 2 月 7 日 18 时，全国累计确诊病例 31253 例，疑似病例 26359 例，新增确诊病例 3193 例，新增疑似病例 4833 例。
According to Dr. Lilac's real-time data, as of 1800 hours on February 7, 2020, there were 31,253 confirmed cases, 26,359 suspected cases, 3,193 new confirmed cases and 4,833 new suspected cases.
其中，重症病例 4821 例，死亡病例 637 例，治愈病例 1640 例。
Among them, 4821 serious cases, 637 deaths and 1,640 cured cases were treated.
重点关注李文亮医生去世，死亡时间引争议本段文字转载自石墨文档《新型肺炎*瑞安及周边信息共享（更新中）》https://shimo.im/docs/VXhjHWHxCpGWy6cx/read2019 年 12 月 8 日，武汉传出有不明肺炎。
This paragraph is reproduced in the graphite file New Pneumonia * Ryan and Its Surrounding Information Sharing (Updating) at https: / / shimo.im / docs / VXhjHWHxCpGWy6cx / read2019 On December 8, 2019, unidentified pneumonia was reported from Wuhan.
2019 年 12 月 30 日晚，李文亮在同学群中发布华南海鲜市场确诊7例SARS的消息，以及一张检测报告（检测报告上确诊有SARS冠状病毒），意在提醒临床工作的同学注意防护，病毒存在明显的人传人迹象。
On the evening of December 30, 2019, Li Wenliang announced among his classmates that seven cases of SARS had been confirmed in the South China Seafood Market, as well as a test report (confirmed on the test report as SARS coronavirus) intended to alert clinical students to the presence of obvious human-to-human transmission of the virus.
同时李文亮强调冠状病毒具体还在分型，不要外传。
At the same time Li Wenliang stressed that the coronavirus is still in the specific genotype, do not spread.
不过消息仍被部分截图，李文亮的个人信息未经处理被传到网上。
However, the message was still partially captured, and his personal information was uploaded to the Internet without processing.
2019 年 12 月 31 日，消息截图传出以后，31日凌晨1:30武汉卫健委连夜开会，李文亮被询问情况。
On December 31, 2019, news screenshot spread, 31 1: 30 am Wuhan Wei Bodyguard Committee meeting overnight, Li Wenliang was questioned.
当天上班李文亮又被医院监察科约谈，被问及消息来源、事情经过，以及是否认识到自身的错误。
Li Wenliang went to work the same day was interviewed by the hospital inspection section, was asked about the source of the incident and whether he realized his mistakes.
2019 年 1 月 1 日，武汉警方发布通报称，一些网民在网上发布、转发不实信息（关于肺炎），并传唤8名违法造谣人员，依法进行处理，李文亮并不在列。
On January 1, 2019, Wuhan police issued a notice that some netizens posted and forwarded false information (about pneumonia) on the Internet and summoned eight illegal disinformation workers to deal with it according to law.
2020 年 1 月 3 日，李文亮被武汉市武昌区中南路派出所叫去，名义是扰乱社会秩序，由于担心被医院处罚，李文亮在派出所的《训诫书》上签字之后离开。
On January 3, 2020, Li Wenliang was called by Wuhan Wuchang District Zhongnan Road police station, in the name of disturbing the social order, because of fear of being punished by the hospital, Li Wenliang signed the police station "reprimand" and left.
2020 年 1 月 8 日，李文亮所在眼科收治了一位以急性闭角型青光眼入院的患者，患者第一天体温正常，除食欲不振，并无异常，没有人意识到是新肺炎。
On January 8, 2020, Li Wenliang's ophthalmology admitted a patient with acute angle-closure glaucoma. The patient had normal body temperature on the first day.
2020 年 1 月 9 日，上述患者开始发热，查肺部CT显示为“病毒性肺炎”，患者家属也相继发热，出现明显的人传人迹象，李文亮和同事立刻上报了医务处和院感办公室。
On January 9, 2020, the above-mentioned patients began febrile, check lung CT to show "viral pneumonia," the patient's family members also febrile, there are obvious signs of human-to-human transmission, Li Wenliang and colleagues immediately reported to the medical services and hospital offices.
2020 年 1 月 10 日，李文亮出现咳嗽症状。
On January 10, 2020, Li Wenliang developed cough symptoms.
2020 年 1 月 11 日，李文亮出现发热症状，最高38.6度，当天做了CT，显示双肺多发感染，磨玻璃样病变.2020 年 1 月 12 日，李文亮住进科室病房。
On January 11, 2020, Li Wenliang developed fever symptoms, the highest 38.6 degrees, the same day CT, showing multiple lung infections, grinding glass-like lesions.
2020 年 1 月 14 日，李文亮转呼吸科隔离病房。
On 14 January 2020, Li Wenliang was transferred to the respiratory isolation ward.
一开始主要表现症状为发热、恶心，后来高烧渐退，此时他本人觉得有望康复。
At first the main symptoms were fever, nausea, and then a high fever gradually receded, at which point he himself felt hopeful of recovery.
同时科室同事相继出现感染。
At the same time, department colleagues appear successively infection.
2020 年 1 月 16 日，李文亮呼吸困难加重，完全不能下床。
On January 16, 2020, Li Wenliang had difficulty breathing and could not get out of bed at all.
同时李文亮的父母发生发热、呕吐、肺部CT病变，于 15、16 号住院，当时医院的床位已非常紧张。
Meanwhile, Li Wenliang's parents developed fever, vomiting, lung CT lesions, in the 15th, 16th hospitalization, the hospital bed was already very tight.
2020 年 1 月 20 日后，新冠肺炎疫情迅猛发展，曾被警方定性为发布不实信息的李文亮，成为公众追溯疫情源头的实名者，疫情“吹哨人”。
After January 20, 2020, the outbreak of pneumonia in the new crown was characterized by the police as the release of false information Li Wenliang, the public retroactive the source of the epidemic, the "whistleblower" epidemic.
2020 年 1 月 24 日，李文亮被转到呼吸内科重症监护室，采用抗生素、激素、抗病毒类药物和高流量吸氧治疗。
On 24 January 2020, Li Wenliang was transferred to the intensive care unit of the Department of Respiratory Medicine for antibiotics, hormones, antiviral drugs and high-volume oxygen therapy.
2020 年 1 月 28 日，最高法院在公号发了一篇武汉八名“造谣者”处罚是否得当的评论文章，文章引用了李文亮此前截图，因此有部分网友误会李文亮在“八名造谣者”之列。
On January 28, 2020, the Supreme Court published a commentary in the public journal on the appropriateness of the punishments meted out to eight Wuhan rumormongers, quoting Li Wenliang's previous screenshots.
2020 年 1 月 29 日，武汉警方回应了对此前八名“造谣者”的处理，表示仅为约谈，并未实行拘留处罚，回应中没有提到李文亮所受到的训诫书。
On January 29, 2020, Wuhan police responded to the treatment of eight previous "disinformation makers," saying that detention was not imposed for interviews only and that the response did not mention the reprimand received by Li Wenliang.
2020 年 1 月 30 日，李文亮的咽拭子（咽部的菌群）核酸检测结果转阴，但他本人认为代表不了肺泡检测，此时的他仍呼吸困难，需要高流量吸氧，吃不下太多食物。
On January 30, 2020, Li Wenliang's pharyngeal swab (bacteria in the pharynx) test results turned cloudy, but he himself did not believe that he could represent alveolar examination, at a time when he still had difficulty breathing, needed high flow of oxygen and could not eat too much food.
2020 年 1 月 31 日，李文亮微博发文，大致描述了事件经过，并澄清自己并未像网传被吊销从业执照。
On 31 January 2020, Li Wenliang Weibo sent a message outlining the events and clarifying that he had not been stripped of his licence as a result of Internet transmissions.
2020 年 2 月 1 日，李文亮核酸检测结果阳性，被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎（李文亮最早的一次核酸检测一直未出结果，30 日咽拭子检测为阴性，2 月 1 日为首次确诊），虽然经过一段时间的重症治疗，李文亮仍无法活动、呼吸困难。
On February 1, 2020, Li Wenliang tested positive for nucleic acid and was diagnosed as a new coronavirus pneumonia (Li Wenliang's first nucleic acid test has not yet yielded results, 30 days negative swabs, the first diagnosis on February 1), although after a period of severe treatment, Li Wenliang is still unable to move and breathe.
2020 年 2 月 6 日，李文亮情况糟糕。
On February 6, 2020, Li Wenliang was in poor shape.
10：14 重症科进行会诊。
10: 14 The intensive care unit conducts consultations.
10：38 对李文亮进行推激素治疗。
10: 38 Push hormone therapy for Li Wenliang.
下午，李文亮开始从武汉中心医院南京路院区转到后湖院区（据中心医院的医生吴岩所说晚上才到）。
In the afternoon, Li Wenliang started to transfer from the Nanjing Road courtyard area of Wuhan Central Hospital to the Houhu courtyard area (according to the doctor of the central hospital Wu Yan only arrived at night).
据《人物》采访李文亮的同学所知，原因是他需要用 ECMO（体外肺循环），而中心医院南京路院区所有设备都被调到了金银潭医院。
According to People's interview with Li Wenliang, the reason was that he needed ECMO, and all the equipment in the Nanjing Road courtyard of the central hospital was transferred to the gold and silver pool hospital.
只有后湖院区还有一台，能救命。
There's only one more in Houhu. It can save lives.
也存在另一种说法，后湖院区这台呼吸机，也是从另一家医院借调的。
There is another story: the ventilator in the Houhu district, also on loan from another hospital.
21：18，李文亮使用肾上腺素。
Li Wenliang used adrenaline.
21：33，李文亮呼吸衰竭，使用分气管插管（推断此前可能一直是无创通气） 无果，李文亮心脏跳停，传出死讯。
After Li Wenliang's respiratory failure and failed to use a split-trachea intubation, which might have been noninvasive until then, his heart stopped and he died.
而后，上 ECMO，进行心外按压，传出仍在抢救。
Afterwards, went up ECMO, carry on the outside pressure, the report still is rescuing.
3 小时后，抢救宣告无果。
Three hours later, the rescue effort proved fruitless.
在 2020 年 1 月 30 日，李文亮在接受财新记者提问的时候说“健康的社会不该只有一种声音”信息来源：财新网、李文亮微博、李文亮头条号（ID：李文亮70）、人物死亡时间争议2 月 7 日凌晨 3:48，武汉中心医院官方微博发布消息：我院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于 2020 年 2 月 7 日凌晨 2 点 58 分去世，对此我们深表痛惜和哀悼。
On January 30, 2020, Li Wenliang told reporters that "a healthy society should not have only one voice." Sources of information: Caixin, Li Wenliang Weibo, Li Wenliang's headline number (ID: Li Wenliang 70), LiWenliang, the hospital's ophthalmologist Li Wenliang, in the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia, died at 2.58 a.m. on February 7, 2020, we deeply regret and mourn.
但在此之前，人民日报 twitter 账号发布李文亮去世消息，显示死亡时间为 2 月 6 日 21:30。
But before that, the People's Daily Twitter account announced the death of Li Wenliang, the time of death on February 6 at 21: 30.
此条推文已被删除，但在搜索引擎中仍然可见。
This tweet has been deleted but is still visible in the search engine.
五小时后，人民日报 twitter 账号发布新的去世消息，显示死亡时间为 2 月 7 日凌晨 2 点 58 分。
Five hours later, the People's Daily Twitter account released news of his death at 2: 58 a.m. on February 7.
无独有偶，此前报道李文亮已于 2 月 6 日晚死亡的媒体还包括《环球时报》、《财新》、《经济观察报》，和世界卫生组织（WHO）。
Similarly, the media that previously reported the death of Li Wenliang on the evening of February 6 included the Global Times, Caixin, the Economic Observer, and the World Health Organization.
2 月 6 日 23-24 时，不断有消息传出，李文亮还未去世，仍在抢救。
February 6 23-24 hours, news continued to spread, Li Wenliang is not yet dead, is still rescued.
同时有医生在微博上指出，此时上 ECMO （叶克膜，体外膜肺氧合）为时已晚。
At the same time, doctors on Weibo pointed out that at this time ECMO (Yecker membrane, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation) too late.
亦有知情医生称，李文亮在“生死之间”。
A doctor with knowledge of the matter said that Li Wenliang "between life and death."
《财新》记者丁刚拍摄于武汉中心医院抢救室门外。
"Finance new" reporter Ding Gang filmed outside the rescue room of Wuhan Central Hospital.
财新传媒常务副主编高昱于 12：31 发朋友圈称，“很不乐观，抢救中”。
Gao Yu, permanent deputy editor of Caixin Media, Yu 12: 31 said, "not optimistic, rescue in progress."
李文亮治疗、抢救的过程尚未公布。
Li Wenliang treatment, rescue process has not been announced.
目前有明确报道粗略时间线的是《财新》：《新冠肺炎“吹哨人”李文亮：真相最重要》：“2 月 6 日晚 21 时许使用了人工肺 ecmo；22时左右 传出他死亡的消息；……凌晨 24 时左右，有进出的护士说，不行了。
Caixin: Li Wenliang, the "whistler" of New Crown Pneumonia: The Truth Matters: "Artificial lung ecmo was used at about 2100 hours on February 6; news of his death came around 2200 hours;... The nurse in and out said at about 2400 that he could not.
但里面仍在抢救。
But they're still inside.
7 日凌晨 2 点，有一名专家进去会诊，一名一直在门外等候的李医生同时也跟了进去。
At 2 a.m. on the 7th, an expert went to the consultation, and a doctor, Li, who had been waiting outside the door, followed.
两分钟后，这位同事出来，财新记者询问他李医生怎么样了，他深深的低着头，一言不发，默默离开。
Two minutes later, the colleague came out. The new reporter asked him how was Dr. Li. He bowed his head deeply and said nothing.
”《人物》的报道《普通人李文亮》则引用了李文亮一位同学的话：“晚上转过来了，不一会就呼吸衰竭气管插管，但是没有救过来，呼吸心跳停了，心外按压三个小时没有生命体征，但是还是上了 ECMO，现在不让宣告死亡。
Li Wenliang, a classmate of People's Daily, quoted a classmate of Li Wenliang as saying: "The night turned round, the respiratory failure trachea cannula, but did not come back, the breathing stopped, the heart pressure outside the heart for three hours without signs of life, but still on ECMO, now not declared dead.
”“呼吸心跳停了 3 小时，正常是可以宣告临床死亡。
"Breathing for three hours and normal clinical death can be pronounced.
”其中，“现在不让宣告死亡”一句引发猜测。
Among them, the phrase "not to declare death now" sparked speculation.
但该篇报道并未解释：是谁不让宣告死亡，以及为何不让宣告死亡。
But the report did not explain who prevented the declaration of death and why it was not.
相关的猜测在昨夜今晨持续发酵。
Speculation continued to simmer last night.
一度，“李文亮医生去世”在微博热搜榜排名第一。
Once, "Dr. Lee Wenliang passed away" in the Weibo hot list ranked first.
但该词条目前已不在热搜榜上。
But the term is no longer on the hot list.
另一新建词条“李文亮去世”在 2 月 7 日上午 10：15 位列 21。
Another new entry, "the death of Li Wenliang," stands at 21 on February 7 at 10: 15 a.m.
疫情发展1.日本——钻石公主邮轮共确诊 61 例。
1. Japan-Princess Diamond Cruise has confirmed 61 cases.
据财新网报道，日本已对“钻石公主号”邮轮 3711 人中，出现发热或咳嗽等症状 273 人采集检测样本，确诊 61 人，多数为日本籍。
Japan has collected 273 samples from 3,711 people, mostly Japanese, with fever or cough, the newspaper reported.
第一例确诊香港籍男子曾于 1 月 10 日经深圳罗湖关口进入内地，1 月 17 日搭乘飞机抵达东京，1 月 20 日在横滨上船。
The first confirmed Hong Kong man had entered the Mainland on January 10 through the Lo Wu Pass in Shenzhen. He arrived in Tokyo by plane on January 17 and boarded the ship at Yokohama on January 20.
1 月 19 日起，男子出现咳嗽症状。
From 19 January, men developed cough symptoms.
在船上期间，曾使用过约半个小时的桑拿设施，并到餐厅用餐。
While on board, we used the sauna facilities for about half an hour and went to the restaurant for dinner.
在武汉疫情早期，曾有署名 zcy 的感染者认为自己是去极乐汤泡温泉感染，“相信也有人会觉得，轻微感冒了，泡个澡会好些”。
In the early days of the Wuhan epidemic, infected people who signed zcy thought they were going to the hot spring infection, "I believe some people will think that a slight cold, bathing would be better."
2.日本——拒绝“威士特丹号”停靠。
2. Japan - Ostrich refused to park.
日本放送协会（NHK）报道，一艘 2 月 1 日从香港出发“威士特丹号”邮轮出现疑似病例，原计划停靠菲律宾、台湾和日本冲绳被拒，日方要求返回香港，愿意为船上日籍乘客提供返国支援。
The NHK reported a suspected case of a ship sailing through Hong Kong on February 1 that had been refused permission to dock in the Philippines, Taiwan and Okinawa, Japan, and asked to return to Hong Kong to offer repatriation support to Japanese passengers on board.
3.北京——复兴医院聚集性病例公布初步调查结果，首都医科大学附属复兴医院这起疫情发生后，北京市区两级疾控中心及时赶赴现场，开展现场流行病学调查，经市区两级专家现场排查、流行病学调查和实验室检测，初步认定目前病例主要发生在复兴医院木樨地院区南病房楼心内科重症监护室。
3. BEIJING - After the outbreak of this epidemic at the Renaissance Hospital attached to the Capital Medical University, two-level CDC rushed to the scene in time to conduct on-the-spot epidemiological investigation, and after on-site inspection, epidemiological investigation, and laboratory testing by experts at both municipal and municipal levels.
经深入调查初步判断此起疫情是由首发病例与外部感染者发病后接触造成了医院科室局部范围传播。
After in-depth investigation, it was concluded that the outbreak was caused by the contact between the first case and the external infection.
未来研判1.城市间迁徙数据提示节后防控重点。
Future research 1. Inter-city migration data hints after the focus of prevention and control.
据新京报报道，“在疫情爆发前期，重庆、深圳、广州、上海、北京、温州、长沙等城市人员与湖北来往最为频繁，恰好湖北省外确诊人数较多的地方也是集中在这几个城市。
"In the pre-outbreak period, people from cities such as Chongqing, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Beijing, Wenzhou and Changsha had the most frequent contact with Hubei, where the number of confirmed cases outside Hubei Province was also concentrated," the Beijing News reported.
所以，人口流动程度成为影响各地疫情确诊人数多少的重要因素。
Therefore, the degree of population movement has become an important factor affecting the number of confirmed epidemic.
”“就当前湖北省之外的疫情重灾城市，重庆、长沙都将可能在节后返程时，出现大量的人群返回广东省各城市的情况。
"Chongqing and Changsha will likely return to cities in Guangdong province in large numbers on their way back from the current epidemic outside Hubei province.
”城市防控1.湖北——医护人员和物资仍然紧缺，卫健委启动“一省包一市”。
Urban Prevention and Control 1. Hubei - Medical staff and supplies are still in short supply, the Health Commission launched "one province, one city."
2 月 6 日晚「新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会」，湖北省副省长杨云彦称“（医护人员）初步统计缺口在 2250 人左右”“特别是呼吸内科、重症医学科和感染科等科室”，因为医护人员和物资缺乏，导致“病床就不能充分地开放”。
"The initial statistical gap is around 2,250," Yang Yunyan, vice-governor of Hubei province, said. "Especially in the departments of respiratory medicine, severe medicine and infection," the lack of medical staff and supplies meant that "beds were not fully opened."
目前解决方法是鼓励退休人员回岗，向其他省市征调。
The current solution is to encourage retirees to return to their posts and to seek transfers from other provinces and municipalities.
在 2 月 7 日下午召开的国务院新闻发布会上，国家卫生健康委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红介绍，卫健委现在建立了 16 个省支援武汉以外地市的一一对口支援关系，支持湖北省加强病人的救治工作。
At the State Council press conference on the afternoon of February 7, Guo Yanhong, an ombudsman of the National Health Council's Hospital Authority, said the committee has now set up 16 provinces to provide assistance to Wuhan's overseas cities.
据三联生活周刊记者王珊，微博@小笨走走停，武汉医院物资始终不到位“在武汉待了许多天，去了很多医院采访，也在努力帮忙困难的医院协调物资。
According to Sanlian Lifestyle reporter Wang Shan, Weibo @ Xiaobu stop, Wuhan hospital materials have not been in place "spent many days in Wuhan, went to many hospitals interviews, and is also trying to help difficult hospitals coordinate supplies.
感谢后面一大批帮助我的朋友们。
Thank you to the large group of friends who helped me.
早上的时候我收到了一张照片，是一家定点医院医生发我的，要进病区的医生，身上穿的既不是防护服，也不是隔离衣，看着是一次性的塑料袋。
In the morning I received a picture of a doctor at a designated hospital who had ordered me to go to the sick area, wearing neither protective clothing nor protective clothing, but a disposable plastic bag.
我都不忍心将照片发出来，穿这个跟没穿一样。
I don't even have the heart to send out pictures like this one doesn't.
医生说，‘我也不知道怎么回事，我们的物资始终不到位。
"The doctor said," I don't know what's going on. Our supplies are never there.
我们的物资到底在哪里？’武汉疫情这么多天了，物资到底在哪里，定点医院的机会在哪里，谁能有个答案？”2.武汉——绕开红十字会捐赠，如有涉嫌违法违规将被依法处理。
Wuhan, where is the epidemic situation in Wuhan for so many days, where are the supplies, where is the chance of ordering the hospital, who has an answer? Wuhan - bypass the Red Cross donation, if suspected violations of the law will be dealt with in accordance with the law.
武汉市场监督管理局发布《关于采购或捐赠防疫医用耗材有关事项的公告》，呼吁尽量通过红十字会统筹实现捐赠，而红十字会的主要职责是“对捐赠物质进行现场查验，判定能否用于医疗机构。
Wuhan Market Supervision Authority issued a notice on matters related to the procurement or donation of medical consumables for epidemic prevention, calling for donations to be made in a coordinated manner through the Red Cross, whose main function is to "conduct on-site inspections of donated materials and determine their possible use in medical institutions."
”如果绕开红十字会直接定点捐赠，“凡涉嫌违法违规的行为我们将依法处理。
"If we bypass the Red Cross's direct targeting of donations," we will deal with alleged violations in accordance with the law.
”但最早发布信息的「武汉发布」（微博认证“武汉市互联网信息办公室”）已删除这条微博。
But Wuhan Releases, the earliest publication of information (Weibo-certified "Wuhan Internet Information Office"), has deleted the microblog.
3.武汉——定向捐赠物资不知所踪。
WUHAN - Targeted donations are missing.
据认证为汉口医院常乐微博账号@changle02，“第一次感觉到个人对抗体制的无助感，接到定向捐赠的电话，一万个 n95 ,如果不是这个事情，我真不愿意去麻烦红十字会的大佬，我总觉得中南医院的医生凭介绍信拿 500 个口罩是个笑话，直到我今天去了才知道我们一线的医务人员真是太难了，定向捐赠的口罩注明了给汉口医院一万个 n95，去了以后，电脑显示的库存也有三万个，我真的觉得我去这一趟是值得的，但是我还是太天真，那三万个库存都没有了，只剩 9000 多个不符合医用标准的口罩，我就请问武汉市红十字会，定向捐赠的物资，你们凭什么可以自行分配，出库证明你们为什么不能提供，请你们把三万个n95的去向说明清楚。
The first time I felt helpless against the system, I received a targeted donation of 10,000 n95. If it hadn't been for this, I would not have bothered to bother the Red Cross doctors.
你们要我把 9000 多个不符合医用标准的领走，是为了凑数，给你们销账吗！wcnmd！”4.武汉——设立农村隔离点接受密切接触者。
You want me to collect more than 9000 people who do not meet the medical standards in order to collect the accounts for you! Wuhan set up a rural isolation point to receive close contact with the people.
2 月 6 日，武汉东西湖区辛安渡街道征用一处腾退的办公楼，用于农村密切接触者的隔离点。
February 6, Wuhan East and West Lake, the Xin An Do street requisitioned a vacated office building, used for close rural contacts of the isolation point.
办公楼一共三层，共 29 间独立房间，办公区和生活区相对分离，街道将安排7名工作人员驻点服务。
The office building consists of three floors and a total of 29 separate rooms, with offices and living quarters separated from each other, with seven staff stationed on the streets.
该处接收「密切接触者」满足 4 个条件：无典型症状；没有传染病史；家里不具备单独居家隔离的条件；有独立生活自理能力。
There are four conditions for receiving "close contacts": no atypical symptoms; no history of infectious diseases; no conditions of isolation in a home; and the ability to live independently.
6 日下午 5 时，已有 2 人入住隔离点。
At 5 p.m. on 6 June, two people were already in the quarantine.
5.武汉——雷神山医院院长确定。
Wuhan - Lei Shenshan Hospital director identified.
2 月 6 日，武汉雷神山医院开展验收逐步移交。
February 6, Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital began to accept the gradual transfer.
据了解，胡绍担任雷神山医院院长。
It is understood that Hu Shao Lei Shenshan Hospital director.
医院首支医疗队确定，由省肿瘤医院和武汉市第一医院抽调骨干力量组成。
The hospital's first medical team determined that the provincial oncology hospital and Wuhan City Hospital No. 1 from the backbone of the composition.
胡绍先后担任武汉市中心医院副院长、武汉市普爱医院院长、武汉市中医医院院长等职务，并曾入选全国优秀医院院长。
Hu has served as vice-president of Wuhan Central Hospital, director of Wuhan Puyi Hospital, director of Wuhan TCM Hospital, and has been elected director of the National Hospital of Excellence.
6.武汉——武汉将新建医疗废弃物处理中心。
Wuhan - A new medical waste treatment center will be built in Wuhan.
中国节能将紧急驰援新建武汉千子山医废应急处置中心建设。
China will urgently assist the construction of a new Wuhan Qianzishan medical waste emergency disposal center.
中国节能已于 10 小时内完成处置中心方案设计，预计 15 日内医废应急处置中心交付使用，并交由武汉市相关部门进行论证。
China has completed the design of the disposal center within 10 hours, and expects that the emergency medical and waste disposal center will be delivered for use within 15 days and handed over to the relevant authorities in Wuhan for verification.
处置中心建成后，将缓解武汉市现有医疗废弃物处置压力，防止二次污染事件发生。
When completed, the disposal center will relieve the existing medical waste disposal pressure in Wuhan and prevent secondary pollution incidents.
7.湖北——湖北实行村组封闭管理。
Hubei-Hubei implemented the closed management of village group.
据湖北发布消息，“坚决实行村组封闭管理，村与村之间留一条应急通道由专人值守外，其他路口一律封闭，其中应急通道用车辆隔离，其他区域一律采取织网、设隔离栏、水马等硬隔离方式。
According to Hubei release, "resolutely implement the village group closed management, between the village and the village to leave an emergency passageway by special person, all the other intersections are closed, among which the emergency passageway is isolated by vehicles, and the other areas are always hard-isolated, such as weaving, fencing, water horse, etc.
全面推行生活物资集中代买，每个村确定专人负责全村物资采购，集中统计需求，逐户送货上门，最大限度降低居民出行频次。
All-round implementation of centralized purchasing of living materials, each village identified a person in charge of the procurement of village-wide materials, centralized statistical needs, door-to-door delivery, to minimize the frequency of residential travel.
凡因封闭管理措施不到位，发生社区感染、家庭感染的，一律严肃处理。
All due to the closure of the management measures not in place, community infection, family infection, all serious treatment.
”8.湖北，广水——医院缺乏物资，用保鲜膜代替防护服。
Hubei, Guangshui - Hospitals lack supplies and use plastic sheeting instead of protective clothing.
据微博@小赵-GR，“#广水急需物资# 请大家看看湖北省这个小地区吧，我们的医生没有护目镜，都用保鲜膜包裹头部的，看看我们吧”。
According to Weibo @ Zhao-GR, "# Guangshui urgently need materials # Please look at this small area of Hubei Province, our doctors do not have goggles, with plastic wrap around the head, look at us."
9.北京——北京市人大常委会通过决定，明确隐瞒、缓报、谎报疫情将追责。
BEIJING - The decision of the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the Beijing Municipal People's Congress explicitly held accountable for concealing, delaying and falsely reporting the epidemic.
2 月 7 日，北京市十五届人大常委会第十八次会议通过《北京市人民代表大会常务委员会关于依法防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情，坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战的决定》，明确防疫期间隐瞒、缓报或者谎报，将被依法追究责任。
On February 7, the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the People's Congress of Beijing adopted the Decision of the Standing Committee of the Beijing People's Congress on Preventing and Controlling the Infection of New Coronavirus with Pneumonia in accordance with the Law and Striving to Win the Battle Against the Coronavirus.
10.北京——北京要求疫情高发区人员暂不返京北京市新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组召开第十六次会议，对疫情高发区计划返京人员，提前联系告知暂不返京，对已返京人员严格落实居家观察等措施；做好确诊病例信息公开。
BEIJING - Beijing has asked people in high-prevalence areas not to return to Beijing for the sixteenth meeting of the Leading Group for the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia in Beijing.
11.北京——公共场所不戴口罩者重则将被拘留。
BEIJING - People who don't wear masks in public places will be detained.
北京市司法局局长李富莹表示，按照北京市政府办公厅通知，宾馆、饭店、文化娱乐场所、商场超市、公共交通场站等人员密集场所的经营管理单位和地铁、公交等公共交通运营管理单位对未佩戴口罩的，应当进行劝阻。
Li Fuying, director of the Beijing Municipal Government Bureau, said that operators and managers of densely populated places such as hotels, restaurants, cultural and entertainment venues, supermarkets, public transport terminals and other public transport operators such as subways and buses should dissuade those who do not wear masks, according to the Beijing Municipal Government Office.
实践中，对不听从劝阻，甚至引发矛盾冲突的，由公安机关予以处罚，轻则处以警告，重则有可能被处以拘留。
In practice, those who do not listen to dissuasion or even cause conflict are punished by the public security organs, given a warning or, in serious cases, may be detained.
12.安徽——16 个省辖市对所有村组、小区一律实行封闭式管理。
12. Anhui Province - All village groups and small districts are under the closed control of the 16 provincial municipalities.
从即日起，安徽全省 16 个省辖市对所有的村组、小区一律实行封闭式管理，用最严格、最周密的措施，落实防疫工作各项要求，全力保障人民群众生命安全和身体健康，以及正常生活需要。
From now on, the 16 provincial cities in the province of Anhui Province shall administer all villages and small districts in a closed manner, implement the requirements of epidemic prevention with the strictest and most elaborate measures and make every effort to guarantee the lives and physical health of the people and the needs of normal life.
各市结合实际进一步作出相关规定。
Municipalities make further relevant provisions in light of actual conditions.
13.广州——广州所有居住小区实施封闭管理。
Guangzhou - All residential areas in Guangzhou are under closed management.
广州所有居住小区（村）将实施封闭管理；现仍滞留重点疫区的人员，在广东省重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应解除前不得返回广州；重点疫区抵穗人员必须接受严格居家或集中隔离健康管理，一律不得外出。
All residential communities (villages) in Guangzhou will be under closed control; those who are still in key epidemic areas are not allowed to return to Guangzhou until the primary response to major public health emergencies in Guangdong Province has been lifted.
14.杭州——小区民居上铁链。
HANGZHOU - Villages live in iron chains.
据微博账号@大大爱阳阳，杭州小区住户被挂上铁链。
According to Weibo account @ greatly love Yangyang, Hangzhou residents were hung up on the iron chain.
4 分钟的视频内，自称是街道工作人员强行在居民门户上铁链。
The four-minute video shows street workers forcing chains on residents' doors.
15.上海——上海发布公布的确诊病例行动轨迹出现诸多错误。
SHANGHAI - Many mistakes have been made in the trajectory of the confirmed cases released in Shanghai.
16.云南——文山州 5 名医院工作人员泄露患者个人信息被处置。
16. Yunnan - Five hospital workers in Wenshan state have had their patients' personal information divulged and treated.
2 月 6 日，云南文山州人民医院 5 名工作人员因偷拍、散布新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者病程信息，被文山市公安局作出行政处罚。
On February 6, five staff members of Wenshan People's Hospital in Yunnan were given administrative punishment by Wenshan Public Security Bureau for stealing and spreading information about the course of infection with pneumonia.
2 月 7 日，官方公布了更多细节：2 月 3 日，文山州人民医院文某、谢某、关某拍摄医院电脑记录的新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者的姓名、家庭详细住址、工作单位、行程轨迹、接触人员、诊疗信息等基本情况并公开散布，医院财务人员刘某、余某通过微信转发传播。
Feb. 7, more details were released: February 3, Wenshan People's Hospital Wenmou, Xie Mou, Guan some of the hospital computer records of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia patients, family details, work unit, itinerary, contact personnel, diagnosis and treatment information, and publicly spread, hospital treasurer Liu, Yu transmitted through a micro-letter.
文山公安局认为该行为已触犯《中华人民共和国治安管理处罚法》第四十二条第六项之规定，定对文某、余某、刘某、谢某作出行政拘留 10 日并处罚款 500 元的处罚决定，对关某作出罚款 500 元的处罚决定，暂缓执行对文某、余某、刘某、谢某的行政拘留决定。
Article 42, paragraph 6, of the Law of the People's Republic of China on Public Security Administration stipulates that Wenmou, Yu, Liu and Xie shall be given administrative detention for 10 days and fined 500 yuan, and a fine of 500 yuan shall be imposed on Guan.
外围影响1.口罩——中石化、车企、内衣厂家开始生产口罩。
External effects 1. Mask - Sinopec, car enterprises, clothing factories began to produce masks.
2 月 6 日，中石化在官方微博上发布“我有熔喷布，谁有口罩机？”，富士康、上汽通用等企业以及三枪内衣、红豆服饰等内衣厂家也投入口罩生产。
On Feb. 6, Sinopec announced on an official microblog: "I have a melting cloth, who has a mask machine?," Foxconn, SAIC General Motors and other enterprises, as well as three gun underwear, red bean clothing and other clothing manufacturers also put into mask production.
2.旅游——飞猪推出限制入境地区机票免费退订。
2. Travel - Pigs offer free refunds for restricted area tickets.
2 月 7 日，飞猪宣布平台上涉及对持中国护照（不含港澳台地区）或湖北证件限制入境地区的机票订单，不论航司政策是否已覆盖，用户都可在飞猪免费退订，出行时间最长可达4月底。
On February 7, Pig announced that air tickets on the platform involving restricted-entry areas with Chinese passports (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan) or Hubei documents would be refunded free of charge to fly pigs up to the end of April, regardless of whether or not the department's policies are in place.
3.消费——多家美股上市公司提及新冠疫情影响。
3. Consumption - Several US-listed companies mentioned the impact of the new crown epidemic.
近期，许多美股上市公司公布年报，中国市场受疫情影响的程度成了投资人和分析师关心的话题。
Recently, many US-listed companies published annual reports, China's market affected by the epidemic has become a topic of concern for investors and analysts.
肯德基、必胜客等品牌的母公司百胜中国近日表示，目前已有超过 30% 的餐厅暂停营业。
Yum China, the parent of KFC and Pizza Hut, has said more than 30 per cent of its restaurants are closed.
和去年春节期间相比，仍在营业餐厅的同店销售额（包括外卖和堂食业务在内）下降了 40％ 至 50％。
Sales (including take-out and canteen services) at restaurants that remained open fell by 40 to 50 per cent compared with last year's Spring Festival.
两家受中国消费者青睐的“轻奢”公司也提到了影响。
Two luxury companies favored by Chinese consumers also cited the impact.
Coach 母公司 Tapestry 在中国内地的大部分门店已暂时关闭，其财报会上表示集团下半财年销售额损失约 2 亿至 2.5 亿美元。
Tapestry, Coach's parent company, has temporarily closed most of its stores in mainland China and reported a loss of sales of about $200 million to $250 million in the second half of the year.
Michael Kors 母公司 Capri 位于中国内地市场 225 间门店中的 150 间已经关闭，剩余店铺客流量显著下滑，上述影响预计在最新财季造成 1 亿美元的负面影响。
The impact of the closure of 150 of Michael Kors' 225 stores in the mainland market and a significant drop in the remaining stores is expected to have a negative impact of $100 million in the latest quarter.
但如果疫情没得到进一步控制，伴随其他市场禁止中国游客入境，Capri 和 Tapestry 重要的旅游渠道也可能会受损。
But Capri and Tapestry's important tourist routes could also suffer if the epidemic is not further controlled and if other markets bar Chinese tourists.
4.教育——未经学校批准学生一律不准返校，高校要设置隔离区。
Education - Students are not allowed to return to school without school approval. Colleges and universities should set up isolation zones.
“严格管控学校校门，未经学校批准学生一律不准返校，校外无关人员一律不准进校门，师生进入校门一律核验身份和检测体温，对发烧咳嗽者一律实行医学隔离观察，不服从管理者一律严肃处理。
"Schools are strictly controlled and students are not allowed to return to school without school approval. Expatriate students and teachers are not allowed to enter the school gate to check their identity and temperature.
校园划区划片管理，学生公寓封闭管理……采取“人盯人”措施，全面摸清、准确掌握学生所在地区、健康状况等信息。
Campus zoning management, student apartment closed management...... "person-to-person" measures, comprehensive understanding, accurate knowledge of the student's location, health and other information.
主动联系每一位学生，随时沟通情况。
Contact each student and keep in touch with the situation.
高校要设置独立隔离区，严防疫情在校园扩散。
Colleges and universities should set up independent isolation zones to prevent the spread of the epidemic on campus.
”5.海南——瓜果采摘可获补贴。
5. Hainan - Fruit and melon picking is subsidized.
海南省 2 月 6 日出台《2020 年海南冬季瓜果菜采购应急补贴及奖励方案》。
February 6, Hainan Province issued "2020 Hainan winter melon and fruit vegetable procurement emergency subsidies and incentives program."
《方案》提出，2020 年 2 月 6 日至 2 月 29 日期间，按贫困户及带贫合作社优先的原则，采购商在琼收购冬季瓜果菜可获得补贴和奖励，其中，采购量在 1 万吨以上者奖励 50 万元。
The programme proposes a subsidy and incentive for buyers to purchase winter melon and fruit vegetables in June, based on the principle of priority for poor households and cooperatives, with a reward of 500,000 yuan for purchases of 10,000 tons or more between 6 February and 29 February 2020.
舆论关注1.张笑春回应监测标准，谈上门排查的难度。
Public opinion is concerned 1. Zhang Xiaochun responds to the monitoring standard and talks about the difficulty of door-to-door inspection.
2 月 7 日中午，武汉大学中南医院医学影像科副主任张笑春在央视《新闻直播间》回应监测标准，称大量“没有症状的人肺部 CT 也呈现阳性”。
Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of medical imaging at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, responded to the monitoring criteria in CCTV's "News Studio" at noon on Feb. 7, saying that a large number of "asymptomatic people with positive lung CT".
CT 影像可更快确立肺炎，即便是普通肺炎仍需住院治疗，基于武汉“重点疫区”的情况，建议“疑病从有”，可以帮助为控制源头和扩散赢得时间，而需要等待和反复监测的“核酸监测”则帮助确诊为“新型冠状病毒”。
Based on the case of Wuhan "key epidemic areas," it is suggested that "suspected cases" can help buy time to control the source and spread. "Nucleic acid surveillance," which needs waiting and repeated monitoring, can help identify the coronavirus.
张笑春称现在上门排查的依据基于发热症状和接触史，但大量患者的“首发症状不是发热”，而是气短，咳嗽，拉肚子、乏力等多种，“如果依据不完善，还是会漏掉一部分人”。
Zhang said the basis for the current home search is fever symptoms and exposure history, but a large number of patients "first symptom is not fever", but shortness of breath, cough, diarrhea, fatigue and so on, "if the basis is not perfect, or will miss some people.
2.穿山甲为潜在中间宿主。
2. Pangolin is a potential intermediate host.
2 月 7 日凌晨 1 时，华南农业大学在官方微博发布称穿山甲为新型冠状病毒的潜在中间宿主。
February 7, 1 a.m., the South China Agricultural University in the official Weibo said pangolin as a potential intermediate host of the new coronavirus.
消息由高校、军事科学院和广州动物园 3 方面的研究人员联合发布。
The news was released by researchers at the University, the Academy of Military Sciences and Guangzhou Zoo 3.
2 月 7 日上午，华南农大召开新闻发布会，称“分离的病毒株与目前感染人的毒株序列相似度高达 99%。
"Isolated strains of the virus are similar to those currently infected with humans by up to 99 percent," he said at a press conference held in the morning of February 7.
”但据财新网报道，团队的样本来源并不是华南海鲜市场，而病毒基因序列的相似性属于部分区域，而不是全部，要确定是否为穿山甲仍然需要更多分析和接触史调查。
But the team's samples did not come from the South China seafood market, and the similarity in viral gene sequences belongs to some, but not all, regions, according to Caixin.
该研究成果还需经同行评议后发表。
The results of the study are also subject to peer review.
3.国家监察委调查李文亮医生事件。
3. Investigation by the National Monitoring Committee of Dr. Lee Wenliang's case.
2 月 7 日中午 13:02，中央纪委国家监委网站发布消息，经中央批准，国家监察委员会决定派出调查组赴湖北省武汉市，就群众反映的涉及李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
On February 7, at 13: 02 noon, the website of the National Monitoring Committee of the Central Committee on Discipline released the news. With the approval of the Central Committee, the State Supervision Committee decided to send an investigation team to Wuhan, Hubei Province, to make a comprehensive investigation into the questions raised by the masses concerning Dr. Li Wenliang.
4.北京外国语大学国际新闻与传播系教授展江呼吁《李文亮法》。
4. Professor of International Journalism and Communication, Beijing Foreign Studies University calls for Li Wenliang Law.
据微博账号@展江，“【期待《李文亮法》】我倡议制订一部以李文亮命名的吹哨人法，落实宪法第三十五条和第四十一条，保护所有以良知向公众讲真话、透过迷雾揭示真相的人。
According to Weibo account @ Zhanjiang, "[Looking forward to the Li Wenliang Law] I propose to enact a whistleblower law named after Li Wenliang to implement articles 35 and 41 of the Constitution and to protect all those who tell the truth to the public through a fog of conscience.
”5.北京通惠河畔，一人用雪纪念李文亮。
A man commemorated Li Wenliang with snow on the bank of Tonghui River in Beijing.
据微博账号@威力无穷的威叔，“北京通惠河畔 ”6.借疫情宣传二孩政策标语引发争议。
According to Weibo account @ powerful Uncle Wei, "Beijing Tonghui River" 6. The spread of the two-child policy slogan caused controversy.
据豆瓣用户@渡边，一院落外挂起二孩政策宣传横幅，“疫情时期在家呆，二孩政策已放开，造个二孩也能为国做贡献”文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UDuYmRNSZfwpe4FI-8vikqTf9Z-uS0RxfIzrJ4-ZtzE/edit 《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报 2.7》，可复制链接后科6学6上网打开。
According to Doubane @ Watanabe, a banner announcing the two-child policy was hung outside one compound. "Staying at home during the epidemic, the two-child policy has been liberalized, making two children contribute to the country." All news and sources can be found at https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / UDuymRNSZf9Z-8vikqTf9Z-uS0RxfIzrJ4-ZtzE / edit Daily Outbreak of New Coronavirus Pneumonia.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情新闻汇总 2.7。
Summary of epidemic news 2.7.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情新闻汇总 2.7";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的当日重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We picked out AT & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
