方舱医院正式启用，内部条件有待完善，以及其他 36 条疫情新闻。
The cabin hospital was officially opened, internal conditions have yet to be improved, and 36 other news items were reported.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
疫情发展根据丁香医生实时数据，截至 2020 年 2 月 6 日 18 时，全国累计确诊病例 28129 例，疑似病例 24702 例，新增确诊病例 3766 例，新增疑似病例 5328 例。
According to the real-time data of Doctor Lilac, as of 6 February 2020, there were 28,129 confirmed cases, 24,702 suspected cases, 3,766 new confirmed cases and 5328 new suspected cases nationwide.
其中，重症病例 3859 例，死亡病例 564 例，治愈病例 1290 例。
Of these cases, 3859 were serious, 564 were fatal and 1,290 were cured.
1.浙江，杭州、宁波——出现没戴口罩接触感染者短时间被感染案例。
1. Zhejiang, Hangzhou, Ningbo - No mask contact infected person was infected for a short period of time.
据中新网报道，浙江杭州、宁波确诊两起短时间感染案例，皆无疫区旅游史和野生动物接触史，经公安通过监控调查行动路径，证明曾偶然接触到新冠肺炎患者，因双方未戴口罩而感染。
There were no history of travel or contact with wild animals in Hangzhou and Ningbo, Zhejiang Province. Through monitoring the route of investigation, it was proved through public security that they had come into contact with patients with Newcastle pneumonia and were infected by wearing masks on both sides.
杭州确诊夫妻曾于 1 月 22 日在一家诊所与一患新冠肺炎者（当时没有确诊）正面相遇 50 秒，1 月 25 日 (3 日后）开始发病，2 月 5 日 (14 日后）确诊。
Confirmed couples in Hangzhou had a positive encounter with a person suffering from pneumonia (not confirmed at the time) on January 22, 50 seconds, January 25 (3 days), and February 5 (14 days).
宁波男子曾在 1 月 23 日双东坊菜场买菜时与一患者“近距离共同驻留”约 15 秒，2 月 4 日 (12 日后）确诊。
Ningbo men were diagnosed on February 4 (12 days later) after "staying close together" with a patient while shopping at Shuangdong Fang on January 23.
2.无症状感染者也可成为传染源。
2. Symptomatic infections can also be a source of infection.
国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，首次提出无症状感染者也可能成为传染源。
The National Fitness and Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Program (Trial 5th Edition)," the first time that asymptomatic infection may also become a source of infection.
记者注意到，与前四版相比，在临床分型上，首次增加了“轻型”。
Reporters noted that compared with the previous four editions, in the clinical classification, the first increase in "light."
国家医疗专家组成员、北京地坛医院感染性疾病诊疗与研究中心首席专家李兴旺表示，把“轻型”加入诊疗方案，目的是为了更好地控制传染源。
Li Xing, a member of the National Medical Experts Group and chief expert at the Infectious Diseases Clinic and Research Center at Beijing Ditan Hospital, said the goal was to better control the source of infection.
3.近 20 人因故意隐瞒行程、发病不报告等涉罪行为被立案。
3. Nearly 20 persons were registered for wilfully concealing travel itineraries and failing to report incidents.
据新京报报道，记者梳理全国各地的警方通报发现，已有近 20 人因故意隐瞒行程、发病不报告等涉罪行为，被公安机关以涉嫌以危险方法危害公共安全罪立案。
According to the Beijing News, reporters combed police around the country and found that nearly 20 people had been arrested by the public security organs on suspicion of endangering public security by deliberately concealing itineraries and failing to report incidents.
4.武汉——最小感染者出生 30 小时，可能为母婴垂直感染。
WUHAN - The youngest infected person is 30 hours old and may be infected vertically from mother to child.
2 月 5 日，武汉儿童医院确诊一最小感染案例，出生仅 30 小时，母亲是确诊的新冠病毒肺炎感染者。
February 5, Wuhan Children's Hospital confirmed a case of the smallest infection, only 30 hours old, the mother is diagnosed with the new crown virus pneumonia.
病区负责人、武汉儿童医院新生儿内科主任医师曾凌空称“这提示我们要关注新冠病毒可能存在的一种新传播途径——母婴垂直传播。
"This prompts us to focus on a possible new route of transmission of the new crown virus - vertical transmission from mother to child," said Teng Ling-kong, director of neonatal medicine at Wuhan Children's Hospital.
”未来研判1.王辰院士称疫情拐点何时出现还不清楚。
1.It is not clear when the inflection point of the epidemic will occur, said academician Wang Chen.
呼吸与危重症医学专家、中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院院长王辰做客《新闻 1+1》栏目。
Respiratory and Critical Medical Expert, Vice President of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, President of the Chinese Academy of Medicine Wang Chen visit the "News 1 + 1" column.
“现在的问题是，疫情的底数并不清楚，判断根据是不足的。
"The problem is that the bottom line of the epidemic is not clear and the basis of the diagnosis is inadequate.
此外，现在社区和社会上未能进行隔离的病人，在家庭和社会的传播威胁性还是很大的。
Moreover, the spread of the disease in the family and in society is now threatening for those who are not isolated in the community and in society.
如果不加以有效的管控，这个“拐点”无法预测。
Without effective control, this "inflection point" cannot be predicted.
”城市防控1.武汉——方舱医院开始收治病人。
Wuhan - Fang Cao Hospital began to treat patients.
2 月 5 日 22 时，江汉武汉国际会展中心开始收治病人，首批 200 人。
February 5 22: 00, Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center began to treat patients, the first 200 people.
武昌洪山体育馆和东西湖武汉客厅等医院同时开始收治。
Wuchang Hongshan Stadium and the East-West Lake Wuhan living room and other hospitals simultaneously began to accept treatment.
按照《方舱医院管理规则》，收治需要满足 5 个条件，包括新冠状病毒确诊病人；有生活自理能力，年龄 18 - 65 周岁；无无呼吸系统、心脑血管系统等基础性疾病及精神疾病；轻症或普通型患者；流感病毒核酸检测阴性。
According to the "Rules for the management of the cabin hospital," five conditions need to be met, including patients diagnosed with the new coronavirus; self-care ability, aged 18-65; absence of basic diseases such as respiratory system, cardio-cerebrovascular system and mental illness; mild or common illness; and negative influenza virus nucleic acid test.
病患由政府统一组织转入，治疗以口服为主，通过检测病患变化决定是否转诊定点医院或治愈离开。
The patient was referred by the Government Unification Organization and the treatment was oral. The patient was referred to a hospital or was cured.
2.王辰院士谈方舱医院作用。
2. Academician Wang Chen on the role of the cabin hospital.
呼吸与危重症医学专家、中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院院长王辰做客《新闻 1+1》栏目，称建立方舱医院的初衷是“应收尽收”，“将社会上的传染源收治到医院中，减低社区和家庭的传播，进而降低整体的患病人数。
Wang Chen, vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and vice-dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, called the original intention of establishing the hospital "receivable from all," "to treat the source of infection in the community to hospitals, reduce community and family transmission, and thus reduce the overall number of patients.
”“如果我们借用一些大型场所收治病人，尽管医疗条件不完善，但容量很大，就可以很快解决大量床位不足的问题。
"If we borrow a few large places to take in patients, we can quickly solve the problem of a large number of beds, although the medical conditions are not perfect, but the capacity is very large.
由于大量的轻症病人流动性强，因此方舱医院可以在很大程度上收治这些病人，既能让他们得到医治，同时还能做到隔离，是很关键的举措。
Because a large number of light patients are highly mobile, it is critical that the Fang hospital be able to accommodate these patients to a large extent, allowing them both access to treatment and isolation.
”3.武汉——方舱医院条件引人担忧。
WUHAN - Conditions at the Fang Causeway Hospital are cause for concern.
据微博网友@换个名字怎么这么难还有，“武展方舱医院。
According to Weibo netizen @ change a name how so difficult still, "Wu exhibition square cabin hospital."
这里条件很差，完全不是新闻里说的那回事。
The conditions here are very bad. It's not at all what the news says.
电线短路停电，电热毯无法使用，晚上睡觉打寒颤；不能打针，自己带的丙球打不了。
Wire short-circuit power supply, electric blanket can not be used, sleep shudder at night; can not play needles, his own play ball can not play.
1 千人共用一个厕所，也没人打扫，病人的屎尿洒在便坑外；早上 10 点才吃到早餐，几块小点心，中餐不知道有没有着落；也没有见到医生护士登记病情，发放药物，人手有限忙不过来；吸氧设备严重缺乏，上百人的病区一瓶氧都没有，咳嗽声此起彼伏。
A thousand people shared a toilet, which was not cleaned, and the patient's urine spilled outside the pit; breakfast was served only at 10 a. m., a few snacks were not available; doctors and nurses were not registered, medicines were distributed, there was a shortage of oxygen equipment, and hundreds of people had no oxygen to cough.
”4.武汉——部分患者接受纯中药治疗方案。
Wuhan - Some patients have accepted the pure Chinese medicine treatment plan.
据中国青年报记者王嘉兴微博@王嘉兴 XX，“之前防疫指挥部要求，所有患者都要接受中医诊疗。
According to the China Youth Daily reporter Wang Jiaxing Weibo @ Wang Jiaxing XX, "Before the epidemic prevention command required that all patients be treated by Chinese medicine.
我当时想，别不给西医治疗就好。
I thought, don't give Western medicine treatment.
刚刚采访时一个医生介绍，有些患者接受的是纯中医疗法。
Just interviewed, a doctor introduced that some patients accept the pure Chinese medicine method.
我听完心情复杂……”“轻症！轻症！多数患者还是‘以中药为主的中西医结合疗法’。
I heard the mood complex...... "Light disease! Light disease! Most patients or 'TCM-based combination therapy of Chinese medicine'.
”5.武汉——武汉市共有132个集中隔离点。
Wuhan - Wuhan city has a total of 132 centralized quarantine points.
湖北省政府新闻办召开发布会，通报新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作最新进展。
Hubei Provincial Government Information Office held a press conference to inform the new coronavirus infection pneumonia prevention and control of the latest progress.
武汉市人大常委会主任、市委副书记胡立山介绍，目前，武汉市共有 132 个集中隔离点，12571 张床位，集中隔离人数 5425 人。
At present, there are 132 centralized seclusion points in Wuhan, with 12,571 beds, concentrating 5,425 people, said Hu Lishan, the chairman of the Standing Committee of the Standing Committee of the NPC.
隔离场所需具备的条件是通风好、卫生条件好。
The conditions required for isolation are good ventilation and good sanitary conditions.
此外，这些隔离点离居民区相对较远，配备了相应的医护人员和工作人员。
In addition, these sites are relatively remote from populated areas and are staffed with appropriate medical staff.
6.武汉——上门排查“四类”人员。
Wuhan - Door-to-door inspection of the "four categories" of personnel.
2 月 6 日上午，武汉召开「肺炎疫情全面排查动员会」，中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理孙春兰出席。
On the morning of February 6, Wuhan hosted the "All-out Pneumonia Screening Committee," attended by Vice Premier Sun Chunlan, a member of the Politburo Committee of the CPC.
“举全市之力入户上门排查‘四类’人员，测体温、询问密切接触者，全面落实辖区、行业部门、单位、个人‘四方’责任，强化网格化管理，要不落一户、不漏一人，要第一时间将‘四类’人员送往隔离点和定点医疗机构救治，实行首诊负责制、首访负责制。
"With the help of the whole city, we will conduct door-to-door searches of the four categories of people, take temperature measurements and ask close contacts, fully implement the responsibilities of the four parties in their jurisdictions, departments, units and individuals.
”“四类”人员包括确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
"Four categories" include close contacts with confirmed patients, suspected patients, febrile patients who cannot be ruled out, and confirmed patients.
7.湖北，随州——随州告急，一县医院多项防护物资库存为“0”。
Hubei, Suizhou - Suizhou is in urgent need, and the stock of several protective materials in a county hospital is 0.
2 月 5 日，中国青年报·中国青年网记者看到的一份湖北省广水市二医院紧缺物资需求清单显示，该院医用防护面罩、医用护目镜、防护鞋套等许多物品的库存数量都是“0”。
Feb. 5, the China Youth Daily China Youth Net reporters saw a list of shortages in the No. 2 Hospital in Guangzhou, Hubei Province, which showed that the hospital had a "0" inventory of many items, including medical face masks, medical goggles and protective shoes.
广水市是随州市下辖的县级市之一。
Guangzhou is one of the county-level cities under the jurisdiction of Suizhou.
广水市二医院后勤物资保障负责人向记者确认，这是广水新冠肺炎疫情防控两家定点医院之一，需求清单里的情况是真实的。
Guangzhou Second Hospital logistics supplies to the reporter confirmed that this is Guangshui New Crown Pneumonia prevention and control of one of the two designated hospitals, the list of needs is true.
“我们只能把用过的护目镜、面罩消毒重复使用，鞋套自己找人加工。
"We can only use the goggles, face mask disinfection reuse, shoe cover for their own processing.
一次性手部消毒液到处买不到，只能用酒精自制。
Disposable hand sanitizers are not available everywhere, but can only be made with alcohol.
”8.河南，南阳——南阳市防护物资告急。
The emergency of protective materials in Henan, Nanyang-Nanyang City.
据河南日报消息，受疫情防控需求形势影响，南阳市多家定点诊治医院医用防护物资库存告急，一线医护人员急缺 N95 口罩、医用连体防护服、护目镜、一次性隔离服等必要物资，基层防控人员也只能佩戴简单的一次性口罩，缺乏必要防护。
According to Henan Daily, due to the situation of demand for epidemic prevention and control, the stock of medical protective materials in hospitals in Nanyang City is in urgent need. First-line medical personnel are in urgent need of N95 masks, medical conjunctive protective clothing, goggles and disposable isolated clothing.
为此，南阳市政府鼓励各定点医院通过各种渠道向社会发出求助信息，求购或接受捐赠防护物资。
To this end, the Nanyang Municipal Government encourages designated hospitals to send help messages to the community through various channels, seeking or receiving donated protective materials.
9.云南，大理——大理强征口罩，或涉嫌违法。
9. Dali, Yunnan - Dali forcibly collects masks or is suspected of breaking the law.
一张云南省大理白族自治州大理市卫健局发出的《应急处置征用通知书》（下称《通知书》）引发网友关注。
A notice of emergency disposal requisition issued by Dali Health Bureau of Yunnan Province Autonomous Prefecture of Dali attracted netizens' attention.
《通知书》内容显示，为切实加强疫情防控工作，从云南省瑞丽市发往重庆市的 9 件口罩被“依法实施紧急征用”。
The notice showed that nine masks sent from Ruili, Yunnan Province, to Chongqing city were "urgently requisitioned according to law" to strengthen prevention and control efforts.
《通知书》落款为大理市卫生健康局，时间为 2020 年 2 月 2 日。
The Notice was signed by the Dali Health Board on 2 February 2020.
新京报记者拨打了《通知书》上的电话，接线员表示，这是大理市卫健局接收群众举报疫情的热线电话，承认《通知书》系大理市卫健局发出。
The Beijing News called the "Notice" telephone operator, operator said that this is Dali City Health Bureau to receive reports of the epidemic hotline, acknowledged that the "notification" issued by the Dali City Health Bureau.
对此，中国政法大学法治政府研究院副院长赵鹏表示，依据《突发事件应对法》《传染病防治法》，出于控制疫情的需要，政府确有征用物资的权力。
Zhao Peng, vice-dean of the Institute of Rule of Law at the Chinese University of Political Science and Law, said the government did have the power to requisition materials when needed to control the epidemic, according to the Emergency Response Law.
“但《传染病防治法》规定，县级以上的地方政府，只能征用本行政区域内的物资。
"However, the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases stipulates that local governments at or above the county level can only requisition materials from their own administrative areas.
如果涉及全国范围或者跨省市、自治区、直辖市的征用，应该由国务院进行。
If requisition involves the whole country or provinces, autonomous regions or municipalities directly under the Central Government, it shall be undertaken by the State Council.
”10.云南，大理——房屋出租者必须要求来自省外的租客近期不得返回。
10. Dali, Yunnan - Rent-holders must require tenants from outside the province not to return in the near future.
云南大理市委宣传部官方微信公众号“大理宣传”2 月 5 日发布了“大理市应对新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情工作指挥部通告（第六号）”，其中提到，外省在大理市工作、学习、生活的人员，近期一律不得返回（云南省疫情防控指挥部 5 号通告明确的各类机关事业单位人员除外）。
The Ministry of Public Information of Dali Municipal Government of Yunnan issued a notice (No. 6) on February 5 announcing that no person working, studying or living in Dali city in the province will be allowed to return in the near future (with the exception of the personnel of various government organs and institutions specified in Circular No. 5 of the Yunnan Prevention and Control Command).
房屋出租者必须要求来自省外的租客近期不得返回，一律暂停对省外人员的租房业务。
The tenant of a house must demand that the tenant from outside the province not return in the near future.
11.北京——西城区广内街道推行社区封闭管理。
11. BEIJING - Closed community management is practiced in the streets of Xicheng District.
为了防控疫情，广内街道将广内地区的所有小区分成有物业管理的小区、弃管或物业履职不到位的小区和平房区三类，逐步推进实行 24 小时不间断管控。
In order to prevent and control the epidemic, the streets of Guangzhou divide all small areas within a wide area into property management areas, abandoned or unoccupied residential areas and cottage areas, and gradually promote the implementation of 24-hour uninterrupted control.
针对有物业管理的小区，街道发动地区物业单位对小区进行封闭管理，对外来人员、车辆进行限流、登记、测温。
For the residential areas with property management, the streets to initiate a closed management of property units in the residential areas, foreign personnel, vehicles to limit the flow, registration, temperature.
针对弃管、失管或物业履职不到位的小区，由社区党委牵头，发挥兜底作用，发动在职党员、党员积极分子、楼门长以及社区志愿者加强防控管理，针对失管小区夜间管理，则由街巷物业等保安对接社区党员、楼门长和志愿者进行管理。
Community Party committees, led by community Party committees, play a role in promoting the management of prevention and control by active Party members, party activists, building owners and community volunteers. In the case of night management of abandoned residential areas, security guards, such as street and lane properties, manage community members, building owners and volunteers.
针对平房区院落，街道制定了防控方案进行整片封闭管理，统一设定一个出入口，加强对返京人员及外来人员的登记、测温，在每个院落明确联系人，确保人员摸排、登记到位。
For the cottages, the streets have drawn up a plan for the prevention and control of the whole block, unified set an entrance and exit, strengthen the registration of returnees and foreigners, temperature measurement, clear contact in each courtyard to ensure that personnel mapping, registration.
12.江西——所有村组小区一律封闭式管理。
12. Jiangxi - All village groups are under closed management.
2 月 6 日，江西省卫生健康委员会官网发布了关于进一步强化疫情防控十条措施的公告。
On February 6, the official website of Jiangxi Provincial Health Commission issued a notice on further strengthening 10 measures to prevent and control the epidemic.
该公告称，江西所有村组（小区）一律实行封闭式管理，本村组（小区）居住人员凭有效证件进出，进行体温检测；所有省外来赣人员一律第一时间向所在单位及村组（社区）报告，不主动申报、拒绝接受测温、医学观察等防控措施，将依法追究责任。
According to the announcement, all village groups (small areas) in Jiangxi are under closed management, and residents of this village group (small area) can enter and leave the area with valid certificates to have their body temperature checked.
13.陕西，咸阳——禁西安咸阳以外牌照车辆入城。
13. Xianyang, Shaanxi Province - No vehicles licensed outside Xianyang City.
陕西省咸阳市人民政府 2 月 6 日在门户网站发布通告称，根据疫情防控工作形势需要，咸阳市疫情防控指挥部办公室决定，对通行咸阳市境内机动车辆实施相关管控措施。
According to the requirements of the epidemic prevention and control work, the office of the Xianyang epidemic prevention and control command decided to impose control measures on the passage of motor vehicles in Xianyang, Shaanxi Province, on February 6, the Xianyang Municipal People's Government announced on the Web site.
禁止西安及咸阳以外车牌证车辆进入咸阳市境内道路行驶。
Vehicle license plates outside Xi'an and Xianyang are prohibited from entering Xianyang city.
14.浙江，宁波——地铁停运。
14. Ningbo, Zhejiang -- Subway decommissioning.
自 2020 年 2 月 6 日起，宁波市轨道交通线路暂停运营，相关公交线路同步调整。
Since February 6, 2020, the Ningbo rail line has been suspended, and the relevant bus lines have been adjusted simultaneously.
医疗方案1.韩国——韩国新冠肺炎首例治愈者出院，使用口服抗艾滋药物治疗。
South Korea - South Korea's first case of New Crown Pneumonia has been discharged with oral anti-AIDS drugs.
据韩联社报道，韩国发现的第二例新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者经过 13 天治疗后，2 月 5 日康复出院。
South Korea's second case of coronavirus-infected pneumonia was recovered from hospital on February 5 after 13 days of treatment, AFP reported.
这是韩国首例治愈病例。
This is the first case cured in South Korea.
1 月 24 日，这名患者确诊感染后被送往韩国国立中央医疗院，院方自其住院第三天起使用口服抗艾滋病病毒药物，投药三天后胸部 X 光检查结果显示肺部出现好转，住院第七天起咳嗽等临床症状消失。
On January 24, the patient was admitted to the Korea National Central Medical Institute, where oral anti-AIDS drugs were administered from the third day of hospitalization. Three days later, chest X-rays showed an improvement in the lungs and cough disappeared on the seventh day of hospitalization.
世界卫生组织 2 月 4 日在新闻发布会上表示，目前尚无确凿证据表明抗艾滋病和埃博拉病毒的药物对新冠肺炎病毒有效，相关临床试验仍在进行中。
The World Health Organization said at a press conference on February 4 that there was no conclusive evidence that anti-AIDS and Ebola drugs were effective against the new strain of the virus and that clinical trials were still under way.
2.美国波士顿制药专家王浩然博士推荐抗新冠病毒药物。
Dr. Wang Haolan, a Boston pharmaceutical expert in the United States, recommends the new crown virus drug.
据华东政法大学宪法学教授童之伟微博@童之伟，王博士说，此药应当可以抗新冠病毒，关键时候可能救命；药物很便宜，美国 OTC （非处方）药店都有，中国网上应也可买到；此药效果或许不亚于一线药物，至少可跟现有药物发挥协同作用，有百益而无一害！王浩然博士，2003 年本科毕业于沈阳药科大学 5 年制药学专业，2005 年在俄勒冈州立大学药学院药理学硕士，2009 年在德州大学西南医学中心获得博士学位。
According to Tongzhi Wei, professor of constitutional law at the University of East China, Wang said the drug should be resistant to the new crown virus and may save lives when critical; it may be as inexpensive as OTC (over-the-counter) drugs available online in China.
外围影响1.铁路——实行免费退票，分散就座。
The railway is free to return tickets and to be seated in scattered places.
铁道部决定 2 月 6 日起免费退 6 日之前购买的车票，已购买纸质票可延期至 3 月 31 日 24 时前办理退票。
The Ministry of Railways has decided to refund free tickets purchased before 6 February, and paper tickets that have already been purchased can be refunded until 2400 hours before 31 March.
同时将推出“分散售票”机制，通过分隔就座降低风险。
At the same time, "decentralized ticket sales" mechanism will be introduced to reduce risk by sitting in separate spaces.
2.公共交通——控制上座率，设立隔离间。
2. Public transport - control of occupancy and installation of isolation booths.
在国务院联防联控机制召开新闻发布会上，交通运输部新闻发言人、运输服务司副司长蔡团结表示，随着市民陆续返岗、学生返校，返程客流高峰即将到来。
Cai Unity, a spokesman for the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Deputy Director-General of Transport Services, said at a press conference held by the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism.
为了降低客流流入地疫情风险，返程公共交通工具将控制上座率，为分散就坐、隔位就坐预留空间，并在交通工具后部设立隔离区，当出现疑似或确诊病例时，可在该区域进行暂时隔离。
In order to reduce the risk of an epidemic of passenger flow into the ground, return public transport will contain occupancy rates, reserve space for sitting on and off-limits and establish a zone of separation at the back of the vehicle, which can be temporarily isolated in the event of suspected or confirmed cases.
3.口罩——口罩短缺导致复工难。
3. Mask Mask - Shortage of masks makes it difficult to get back to work.
据《财新网》报道，一些工厂正面临无法筹集足够口罩开工难的问题，当咨询口罩工厂时被告知在排队。
Some factories are facing the difficulty of raising enough masks to start work, and were told to line up when consulting the mask factory, Caixin reported.
尽管中国生产与出口全球 50% 的口罩，“最大产能是每天 2000 多万只”，仍然难以解决目前巨大消耗。
Although China produces and exports 50 per cent of the world's masks, "with a maximum capacity of more than 20 million per day," it is still struggling to cope with the current huge consumption.
日本、香港等地区的口罩已出现短缺。
There are shortages of masks in Japan, Hong Kong and elsewhere.
人民网报道上海口罩厂招募志愿者帮助口罩生产。
Shanghai mask factory recruited volunteers to help mask production.
4.餐饮——阿里本地生活推出就业共享平台，吸纳餐饮员工就业。
4. Catering -- Ali's local life has launched a job-sharing platform to absorb the employment of catering staff.
2 月 6 日，阿里巴巴旗下本地生活服务公司推出“蓝海”就业共享平台，首批提供一万个外卖骑手岗位。
On February 6, Alibaba's local living services company launched the Blue Sea job-sharing platform, offering its first 10,000 take-out riders.
截至目前，其统计有意应聘的餐厅员工约有 4000 人。
So far, it counts about 4000 restaurant employees as potential candidates.
面对新型冠状病毒疫情影响，众多餐饮商户短期内无法正常营业，面临巨大成本压力。
Facing the impact of the new coronavirus epidemic, many restaurants and restaurants can not operate normally in the short term, facing huge cost pressure.
阿里巴巴方面称，推出这一平台希望通过短期用工形式，服务企业、缓解压力。
Alibaba said that the launch of this platform through short-term employment, service enterprises, relieve pressure.
通过“平台”，全国各地餐饮商户可统一为员工报名，成为“蜂鸟”骑手，或者附近商超便利店员工。
Restaurants across the country can sign up as "hummingbird" riders or workers at nearby convenience stores through the platform.
5.餐饮——北京禁止餐饮企业承办群体性聚餐活动，3人以上就算聚餐。
5. Catering - Beijing forbids catering enterprises to undertake group dining activities, more than three people count as meals.
2 月 6 日，北京市市场监管局发布新冠肺炎流行期间餐饮服务单位防控指引，禁止餐饮服务单位承办各类群体性聚餐活动。
On February 6, the Beijing Municipal Market Supervisory Authority issued guidelines on the prevention and control of food service units during the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
消费者到餐饮服务单位就餐，餐饮服务单位应控制就餐人数。
Consumers to the catering service units, catering service units should control the number of people eating.
记者从部分餐饮企业了解到，就餐人数超过 3 人，就算聚餐。
Reporters from some catering enterprises learned that the number of people eating more than 3, even if the dinner.
6.河南，南阳——护士下班回小区遭阻拦。
Nurses in Nanyang, Henan Province, were stopped returning home from work.
2 月 1 日，河南南阳，南石医院的护士下班回小区遭阻拦，阻拦者认为南石医院是新型肺炎定点医院，害怕她们携带病毒回家感染人。
February 1, Henan Nanyang, the South Stone Hospital nurses home from work was blocked, block the people think that the South Stone Hospital is the new pneumonia designated hospital, afraid they carry the virus home infected people.
医院汇报后，南阳市防控指挥部发布通知解决医护人员出行问题，制作临时工作证做通行证。
Hospital reporting, the Nanyang City Command issued a circular to solve the travel of medical personnel, temporary work permits to make pass.
7.重庆——各级学校 2 月底前不开学。
CHONGKONG - Schools at all levels will not open until the end of February.
重庆市教委消息，经市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作领导小组同意，重庆市各级各类学校 2 月底前不开学，各培训机构和托育机构在 2 月底前不得开展线下服务。
Chongqing Education Commission reports that the leading group for the prevention and control of pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection has agreed that schools of all levels and types in Chongqing will not reopen before the end of February and that training and care institutions will not be allowed to operate off-line until the end of February.
8.钟南山团队开发新冠肺炎预防凉茶处方。
8. Zhong Nan Shan team develops a new prescription for cold tea for pneumonia prevention.
据南方都市报报道，记者从钟南山团队获悉，结合岭南气候、水土、饮食、人文等特点，并针对本次疫病四诊资料，该团队目前已拟定出新冠肺炎预防凉茶处方，定期为全院职工饮用，据悉此方也适用于居家隔离防疫的市民。
According to the Southern Metropolis Daily, the reporter learned from the Zhong Nan Shan team, combining the characteristics of the Lingnan climate, water, soil, diet, humanities and other characteristics, and in response to the four-diagnosis data, the team has now formulated a new prescription for the prevention of pneumonia for regular consumption by hospital staff.
此前，钟南山院士在接受采访时曾提及，“我们也在考虑中医的作用，中医一开始就要介入，别到最后不行了才看。
"We are also considering the role of TCM," he said in an interview. "TCM starts with the intervention of TCM, and does not end with it.
在广东就是这么做，在很多地方也这么做。
This has been done in Guangdong, and in many places as well.
”9.国家网信办处理相关传播疫情信息账号。
9. The National Cyber Credit Office handles the relevant dissemination of epidemic information accounts.
国家网信办近日指导地方网信办对群众举报的“皮皮搞笑”网络社区平台发布涉新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情有害短视频、散布恐慌情绪等信息内容进行严肃处理，第一时间进行应用商店下架处置；就百度等网站平台部分产品对用户发布违规信息管理不严、虎嗅等网站平台在涉疫情报道中存在违规从事互联网新闻信息服务等问题依法约谈，责令立即停止违法违规行为，进行全面深入整改，有关网站平台关停相关问题栏目；对新浪微博、腾讯、字节跳动等互联网企业所属网站平台进行专项督导；对“网易财经”“新浪微天下”“谷雨实验室”“史上最贱喵”等网络账号违规自采、传播不实信息等问题，及时进行处置。
The State Council recently instructed the local offices to release information such as "Pippi Funny" online community platform to seriously handle information such as the release of harmful short videos and spread panic over the new coronavirus infection.
10.豆瓣日记功能停用。
10. Disable the Douban Diary function.
11.央视元宵晚会首次取消现场观众，主打“万众一心、众志成城”的诗朗诵。
11. CCTV Lantern Festival Gala canceled the scene for the first time, mainly hit "all as one, into the city" poetry recitation.
今年央视元宵晚会将不再设有现场观众。
This year CCTV Lantern Festival Gala will no longer have a live audience.
除此之外它会在主题、风格、内容、阵容等多方面与往年相比做出调整。
In addition, it will be in the theme, style, content, lineup and other aspects of the adjustment compared to previous years.
晚会将以“万众一心、众志成城、抗击疫情、鼓励信心、为武汉加油、打赢阻击战”的节目为主打，刘劲、张国立、凯丽等应邀参加抗击新冠肺炎诗朗诵，白岩松、康辉等主持人也将参与节目。
Liu Jin, Zhang state and Kelly are invited to take part in the recitation of poems against the New Crown Pneumonia, and the hosts of Baiyansong and Kang Hui will also participate in the program.
除央视外，湖南卫视元宵晚会也取消了现场观众。
In addition to CCTV, Hunan Satellite TV Lantern Festival Gala also cancelled the live audience.
12.多家内衣、家纺公司应急生产民用防护服。
12. A number of underwear, home textile companies emergency production of civilian protective clothing.
内衣品牌三枪转产民用防护服，目前已初具日产5000套民用防护服的生产能力，2 月 5 日交出第一批货。
The underwear brand converted three guns into civilian protective clothing, currently with a daily production capacity of 5,000 sets of civilian protective clothing, the first delivery February 5.
三枪集团副总经理蔡建华透露三枪在三天内拉好了这条流水线。
Tsai Jianhua, deputy general manager of Three Guns Group, revealed three shots pulled the assembly line in three days.
2 月 1 日，第一件防护服的样衣经专家审核和市里相关部门确认，准予投入生产。
On February 1, the sample of the first protective clothing was examined by experts and confirmed by the municipal authorities concerned.
第一批货民用防护服将供上海市经信委调拨。
The first batch of civilian protective clothing will be allocated by the Shanghai ECIC.
尚不明确这批民用防护服的用途。
The use of these civilian protective clothing is unclear.
除三枪外，水星家纺、红豆股份也临时转为生产防护服，其中多为民用标准。
In addition to three shots, Mercury Home Textile, Red Bean shares also temporarily converted to production of protective clothing, most of which are civilian standards.
舆论关注1.CT 影像是否代替核酸检测。
Public opinion is concerned about whether CT imaging can replace nucleic acid test.
针对日前张笑春等医生提出核酸检测可能出现假阴性，漏掉早期新冠肺炎病人，用 CT 影像代替监测，《科技日报》采访国家医疗专家组成员王贵强等人回应，“但这样病人的传染性也小，因为上呼吸道没有检测到（病毒），提示传染性不强。
"But it's also less infectious because the upper respiratory tract has not been detected," Zhang said, citing doctors such as Zhang Xiaochun, who suggested that DNA tests might be false negative and miss out on patients with early-stage pneumonia, instead of monitoring with CT images.
因此，核酸检测是非常重要的标准，不能取代。
Therefore, nucleic acid detection is a very important standard and cannot be substituted.
”而 CT 影像所显示的炎症可能为其他病毒性肺炎，无法做鉴别，CT 影像也同样受到使用条件的限制，容易产生交叉感染。
But the inflammation shown by CT images may be other viral pneumonia and cannot be identified, and CT images are also limited by the conditions of use, leading to cross-infection.
王贵强补充“把 CT 和核酸检测结合起来确实会提高检测的准确性。
Wang added: "Combining CT and nucleic acid testing does improve the accuracy of testing.
”2.河南，漯河——护士因丢失一个 N95 口罩而痛哭。
Henan, Luohe - The nurse wept bitterly over the loss of a N95 mask.
河南漯河市中医院护士因丢失一个 N95 口罩而痛哭，医院表示物资紧缺，希望社会能捐赠。
The nurse of the TCM hospital in Henan Luohe city wept bitterly over the loss of a N95 mask.
据医院党委副书记曹宇宏称 2 月 4 日已从疾控中心领取到 60 个 N95 口罩，100 套防护服（消毒后可反复使用），社会各界捐助的普通口罩 3000 个。
Cao Yuhong, deputy secretary of the hospital's Party committee, said he had collected 60 N95 masks and 100 suits from the CDC on Feb. 4.
3.武汉—— 77 岁退休教师在微博上求助。
WUHAN - Retired 77-year-old teachers turn to Weibo for help.
据微博网友@老苏 8811，“女儿刘莺因这次疫情刚刚去世……密切接触者有我们同住的3人：本人，刘立，77岁；妻子，付琳莉，72岁；外孙女，陈韵秋，13岁。
According to Weibo @ Lao Su 8811, "our daughter Liu Yingqiu has just died of the epidemic... Close contact with three of us: I, Liu Li, 77; my wife, Fu Linli, 72; and my granddaughter, Chen Yuanqiu, 13.
目前，我，我妻子，外孙女均已感染，妻子最严重。
Right now, I, my wife, my granddaughter are infected, and my wife is the worst.
“文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://shimo.im/docs/J3drDjqJyXCQtx8R 《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报 2.6》，可复制链接后用石墨文档 App 或小程序打开。
"All news and sources in the article can be viewed at the following link: https: / / shimo.im / docs / J3drDjjyXCQtx8R Daily Outbreak of Coronavirus Pneumonia. The link can be replicated and opened with the graphite file App or applet.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院正式启用，内部条件有待完善，以及其他 36 条疫情新闻。
The cabin hospital was officially opened, internal conditions have yet to be improved, and 36 other news items were reported.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "方舱医院正式启用，内部条件有待完善，以及其他 36 条疫情新闻";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Fairway Hospital officially opened, internal conditions have yet to be improved, and 36 other epidemiological news & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的当日重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We picked out AT & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
title: '王辰：方舱医院可以看作是“诺亚方舟”上的一个“舱位”，初衷是实现“应收尽收”',。
Wang Chen: Fang's Hospital may be regarded as a cabin on Noah's Ark, intended to meet Ren & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '央视新闻',。
Subject _ name: & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '王辰：方舱医院可以看作是“诺亚方舟”上的一个“舱位”，初衷是实现“应收尽收”',。
Wang Chen: Fang's Hospital may be regarded as a cabin on Noah's Ark, intended to meet Ren & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '央视新闻',。
Subject _ name: & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '随州告急，一县医院多项防护物资库存为“0”',。
At Suizhou, a county hospital with a multi-item inventory at its service at 0 & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '冰点周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '河南一护士长因丢失一个口罩大哭，医院：防护用品紧张',。
A head nurse in Henan cried at the loss of a mask. Hospital: Safety & amp; Protection & amp; Aposs.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
