刷屏、阻滞、信任危机，民间救援力量的处境。
Brush screen, block, crisis of confidence, the situation of civil rescue forces.
两个记者。
Two journalists.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
作者 | 朱凯麟 张依依编辑 | 韩方航1 月 23 日武汉仓促封城以来，各大社交平台就被蜂拥而至的求助信息淹没，医院不断对外请求口罩、防护服、护目镜。
Ever since Wuhan hastily shut down its doors on January 23, major social-networking platforms have been flooded with calls for masks, suits and goggles.
民间组织快速涌现出来，他们大多临时拼凑，利用石墨文档、微信群等协作工具对接物资，传播信息。
The rapid emergence of civil society organizations, most of them improvised, using graphite documents, micro-groups and other collaborative tools docking materials, dissemination of information.
其中一些取得了成功，也发布了可证明物资送达的证据。
Some of these have been successful, and evidence of delivery has been issued.
但随着疫情扩散，政府工作展开，很快摆在这些民间组织面前的是更多的求助、复杂的合规要求、以及传播受阻的难题。
But as the epidemic spreads and government efforts unfold, these civil society organizations are quickly confronted with more requests for help, complex compliance requirements, and challenges of communication disruption.
此种情况下，它们往往采取一种“从弱势中发现弱势”的策略，职能或主动、或被动地发生变化。
In such cases, they tend to adopt a strategy of "identifying vulnerabilities from weaknesses," with functional or active, or reactive, changes.
比如我们采访到的「驰援武汉」微信群的发起人，如今转而推动境外物资和大公司采购的对接；「nCoV 支援」在微博上招募编辑，抢先制作更易读的科普防疫信息；「湖北籍同胞全国住宿指南」的团队则在 28 日开始汇总各地疾控中心和文旅局公布的安置隔离点。
For example, the promoters of the "Help Wuhan" micro-letter group we interviewed are now promoting the docking of overseas purchases of goods and large companies. "nCoV Support" recruited editors on Weibo to produce easier-to-read information on popular science and epidemic prevention.
我们试图如实记录下一些民间组织在这个过程中的变化和发展，是因为民间组织之于社会是一种重要的力量。
We try to document the changes and developments of some civil society organizations in this process because they are an important force to society.
在许多重大公共事件中，民间组织都发挥过关键的作用。
Civil society organizations have played a key role in many major public events.
然而，过去几年当中，中国公民社会收缩，难以履行职能。
Over the past few years, however, China's civil society has shrunk, making it difficult for it to function.
今天由社交平台上自发组建的民间团体更多像是一种应急式的对于灾难的反应，但关注他们才能够帮助人们理解，一个公民社会要如何有效地组织起来。
Civil society, organized spontaneously on social platforms today, is more like an emergency response to disasters, but focusing on them can help people understand how effectively a civil society is organized.
1.「他突然说，朋友的口罩工厂被征用了，货发不出来。
1. "He suddenly said that his friend's mask factory had been requisitioned and could not be shipped.
举报、要求退款，大家吵得不可开交。
There was a huge row about reporting and asking for a refund.
」娄菲 27 岁，温州永嘉县人，28 日接受我们采访这天，温州市累计确诊了 144 个病例，成为湖北省外确诊人数最多的地区。
Lou Fei, a 27-year-old native of Yongjia County, Wenzhou, confirmed 144 cases that day, making it the region with the highest number of confirmed cases outside Hubei province.
大年三十下午，娄菲加入武大 MBA 校友会发起的援助组织担任志愿者，负责收集捐赠方信息。
In the afternoon of the New Year, Loufei joined a volunteer organization sponsored by the MBA Alumni Association to collect donor information.
她是通过豆瓣招募加入的，自己不是武大学子。
She was recruited through Douban, and she is not a student of Wu University.
过去 5 天，娄菲加了五、六十个好友，除了睡觉吃饭，就在群里回复信息。
Over the past five days, Mr. Lou has made five or six dozen friends to answer messages in the group, in addition to sleeping and eating.
唯一一次出门，是娄菲的父亲让她去给村口的查车辆的工作人员送去一盒口罩。
The only time she went out, Lou Fei's father asked her to send a box of masks to the vehicle inspector at the entrance to the village.
“我们前天（26 日）晚上 12 点开了一个会，现在一个是封路根本运不进去，再一个是，物资各方面都在逐渐往（武汉）市内倾斜，我们才商讨出来说，往武汉外的地方去送。
"We had a meeting the day before yesterday (26th) at 12: 00 pm, and now it is impossible to get the road closed at all. Another is that the goods are gradually tilting toward the city.
武汉之外的其他城市包括黄冈、荆门这些地方他们都非常的缺。
Wuhan outside other cities including Huanggang, Jingmen these places they are very short.
”27 日开始，这个民间组织的捐赠目标和工作方式已产生变化。
The group's donation goals and methods of work have changed since May 27.
“输送武汉市内暂时就停一停。
"The city of Wuhan on the temporary stop.
”“我们会拉一个群直接对接到医院的需求方，群里会有医院的直接对接人，我们的捐赠者，捐赠组和受捐组的工作者。
"We will pull a group to meet the demand side of the hospital directly, and there will be a direct contact with the hospital, our donors, the donors and the recipients.
”这种往往对接的是体量较小的县级医院或卫生院，尽量一次性解决对方急缺的物资。
Often this docking involves smaller county-level hospitals or clinics, trying to solve each other's acute shortages once and for all.
“比如说有个小镇的医院，是个精神病院，也有确诊的病人，他们的需求就很卑微， 20 个护目镜， 21 套防护服，数字都是非常少，但是他们也没有，这种情况我们都是优先尽量先给他们运过去。
"For example, there is a small town hospital, a mental hospital with confirmed patients, and their needs are low. There are 20 goggles, 21 suits, very few numbers, but they don't, and in this case we try to get them there first.
”“现在不光是我们这一个组织，很多很多组织都在做捐赠，所以可能需要半天就要更新一次信息，比如说他们上午说需要什么物资，然后到了中午的时候他们有了，不需要了，或者说又需要了，更新很快。
"It's not just us, it's a lot of organizations that are donating, so it's probably going to take half a day to update it, like what they said they needed in the morning, and then by noon they have it.
”“我这边的话，之前经手的有黄冈三家医院（的需求），孝感也有一家医院，现在在对接的是一个镇的卫生院。
"" In my case, there were three hospitals in Huanggang, and one hospital in Xiaogan, which is now docking in a town clinic.
”物资还在源源不断地送达，由卫健委决定去向。
"Supplies continue to arrive in a steady stream, the health committee decided where to go.
如 27 日，工信部就从青岛紧急调拨 2 万副医用护目镜，5 千个医用隔离面罩，晚 8 点空运至武汉。
For example, on the 27th, the Ministry of Industry and Communications emergency transfer from Qingdao 20,000pairs of medical goggles, 5,000 medical isolation masks, 8pm airlift to Wuhan.
这些物资除了各地医院的应急储备，大都来自政府近日征用的厂商。
These supplies, in addition to emergency stockpiles in hospitals around the world, come mostly from companies recently requisitioned by the government.
资深媒体人邹玲发起的一个名为「驰援武汉#媒体圈」的微信群，现在正面临邹玲称之为“第三阶段的问题”：信任危机。
Zou Ling, a senior media personality who launched a micro-group called "Help Wuhan # Media Circle," is now facing what Zou Ling calls the "third stage problem": a crisis of confidence.
大年三十组建，这个群一夜间进来 200 余人，群里有武钢总医院、黄冈县区医院的医生、媒体人、以及负责海外采购的志愿者，经手的几批物资包括 1 万副捐给武钢总医院的手套。
During the New Year's Eve, this group of more than 200 people came in one night. The group included doctors from WISCO General Hospital, Huanggang County Hospital, media people, and volunteers responsible for overseas procurement.
邹玲说，他们第一阶段解决了一些武汉市内紧缺物资的需求，第二阶段拿到了一些捐赠、采购物资，但运输和通行遇到很多问题，“海外采购的口罩不符合医院要求；入关后的物资被当地政府和红会征用而无法指定捐赠；决策过程慢，到医院的链条长，还是不断收到医院求援。
Zou Ling said that during the first stage, they solved the demand for some materials in Wuhan city. In the second stage, they received some donations and purchased materials, but there were many problems with transportation and movement.
”“第三阶段是（民间组织）自己出现问题。
"The third stage is when [civil society organizations] have their own problems.
”邹玲的群友在另一个群参与了一笔募资，27 日，这个承诺可以拿到 10 万只 N95 口罩的捐赠人已经募到了 50 万元，但经过两天仍未发货。
Zou Ling's group of friends took part in a fund-raising campaign in another group, and on the 27th, the donor, who promised to get 100,000 N95 masks, had collected 500,000 yuan but had not delivered them for two days.
“他突然说，朋友的口罩工厂被政府征用了，这件事引发了群内的激烈争吵。
"He suddenly said that his friend's mask factory had been expropriated by the government, which triggered a heated debate within the group.
举报、要求退款，大家吵得不可开交。
There was a huge row about reporting and asking for a refund.
”这个据称可提供 10 万只口罩的工厂位于厦门，截至发稿，弓立医疗的联系人电话一直未能接通。
The factory, which allegedly supplies 100,000 masks, is in Xiamen, and as of the date of dispatch, Toxo's contact phone has not been connected.
“现在我们不敢做一对一的捐赠了，只做 B2B 的对接。
"Now we don't dare to give one-on-one, just do the B2B docking.
我们的人在海外找到货源，媒体有的认识阿里，让专业的采购去跟进，确认物品的资质，再通过顺丰针对医疗物资的绿色通道进去。
Our people find supplies overseas, the media know Ali, let professional procurement to follow up, confirm the qualification of the goods, and then through Shunfeng for medical supplies of the green channel.
”邹玲感到有心无力，因为她知道这些物资到医生手上，中间还有漫长的过程。
Zou Ling felt powerless because she knew there was still a long way to go before the supplies reached the doctor.
26 日看到军队医疗接管之后，他们一度觉得，这个群不如解散。
26 saw the army medical takeover, they once felt that this group should be disbanded.
“但据我们所知黄冈、孝感的医院依然是紧缺的。
"But we still know that hospitals with filial piety in Huanggang are still in short supply.
这个我还是很困惑，不知道湖北省内的一个物资调控是一个什么状态。
This I am still very confused, do not know a material control in Hubei Province is a state.
”娄菲昨天和另一个志愿者组织的成员通话了一个小时，她觉得，现在民间捐赠的气氛怪怪的。
After talking to another volunteer group for an hour yesterday, Lou felt the atmosphere was strange.
“大家都想帮忙，目光都在口罩这些东西上。
"Everybody's trying to help. They're looking at things like masks.
但是（生产口罩的工厂）全部被政府征用了，香港的也是。
But [the factories that make masks] are all expropriated by the government, and so are Hong Kong's.
国内或者国际可以有正规海关渠道的太少了。
There are too few formal customs channels available domestically or internationally.
”“市面上要不是假的、不合规的小厂，要么是国外符合，但国内没有证件的，弄进来就是犯法。
"" If it is not a fake, non-compliant factory in the market, or if it is foreign, but there is no domestic document, it is an offence to bring it in.
我认为不能为了献爱心去做违法的事情吧？我们现在做这个公益，是为了满足政府暂时顾不上的医护需求，但是怎么看着看着，越来越像跟政府站在对立面了？”2.「如果我们磨磨叽叽的话，可能用处就不大了。
I don't think we can do anything illegal in the name of charity, we do it for the benefit of the government's momentary neglect of health-care needs, but look at it more and more like the opposite of the government?
」1 月 29 日晚，小程序「湖北医疗物资需求信息平台」上的各地医院需求共 608 条。
On the evening of January 29, 608 hospitals were in need of the mini-program "Hubei Medical Materials Demand Information Platform."
该平台的几个主要开发者、项目经理泰阁（化名）说，他们正在紧急开发最新的版本。
Several of the platform's main developers, project manager Tae Ge (alias), say they are working urgently to develop the latest version.
“这个平台的时效性很强，如果我们磨磨唧唧的话，可能就用处不太大了。
"It's a very time-sensitive platform, and if we grind it, it probably won't be very useful.
”泰阁所在的开发团队目前有 20 余人，大部分从事 IT 行业。
The company's development team currently has more than 20 people, most of them in the IT industry.
除夕那天，她和几个志愿者连夜写代码，于 25 日上午 10 点 36 分上线，分医院需求、车辆资源两大类。
On New Year's Eve, she and several volunteers wrote code overnight, on the 25th morning at 10: 36 a.m. on the line, sub-hospital needs, vehicle resources two categories.
信息由团队搜集自公告、民间求助，也可以手动添加。
Information collected by the team from the announcement, folk help, or can be added manually.
医院信息下方可一键拨打联络人电话。
Hospital information can only call a contact person phone.
过去 5 天，平台已经更新到 3.0 版本，4.0 即将上线。
Over the past five days, the platform has been updated to version 3.0, with 4.0 ready to go live.
28 日是他们唯一没有进行版本迭代的一天。
The 28th is the only day they haven't had a versioning iteration.
因为在经过一些微博大 V 转发以及媒体报道之后，开始有一些“冒牌货”出现在列表中，“有一些冒充医生的人劫走物资，再进行倒卖。
As a result of some micro-transmissions and media reports, "bogus" began to appear on the list, "some people posing as doctors hijacked supplies and resold them."
”为提高审核门槛，28 日晚平台进行下线整改，当前版本的开屏通知写着：“只接受官方认证发布，并接受社会监督”。
To raise the threshold, the platform was de-engineered for the evening of May 28, and the current version of the notice reads: "Only officially certified and subject to public scrutiny."
然而据媒体报道，医院私下发布的求援信息，很难让捐助者分清轻重缓急。
However, according to media reports, it is difficult for donors to prioritize information that hospitals issue in private.
《南方周末》截至 28 日上午的统计【1】显示，160 余家医院曾向社会公开求援，其中 74 家医疗团体来自湖北以外地区。
More than 160 hospitals have appealed to the public for help, 74 of them from outside Hubei, according to statistics from the Southern Weekend Morning.
有一些公告发布后又被撤下。
Some of the announcements were subsequently withdrawn.
“不让发公告，私下募集物资我们还是欢迎的。
"We welcome the fact that we are not allowed to make public announcements and privately collect supplies.
”一位北京某医院发布公告的工作人员接受采访时说，“撤下公告是为了防止恐慌”，而许多医院的求援并非是紧缺，而是未雨绸缪，因为募捐要比医院采购的流程直接很多。
"The announcement was made to prevent panic," a Beijing-based hospital spokesman said in an interview. "Many hospitals are asking for help not because they are in short supply, but in anticipation, because fund-raising is much more direct than the hospital procurement process.
武汉市委书记在 28 日晚的新闻发布会上说，目前为止，医用物资处在「紧平衡」状态。
Wuhan city party secretary said in the evening of the press conference, so far, the medical supplies in a "tight balance" state.
所谓「紧平衡」，就是目前够用，但长远看，仍要加大筹措力度。
The so-called "tight balance" is sufficient at present, but in the long run, more efforts should be made to raise funds.
泰阁说，他们开发的平台对信息流的呈现有优先级，定点医院优先，然后是“发热接诊病人比较多的医院”。
The platform they developed prioritizes the flow of information, assigning priority to hospitals, followed by "hospitals with more febrile admissions," he said.
开发团队之外，该平台背后有 4 个数百人的援助微信群，负责日夜不停地搜集各地的求助信息，通过电话、视频核实医生的身份（如展示工作证）。
In addition to the development team, there are hundreds of aid micro-groups behind the platform, which collect help around the clock and verify the identity of doctors (such as work badges) by telephone and video.
平台上发布的需求，有大量来自周边区县级的医院或是卫生所，目前几乎都没有官方公告，“有些县级医院的科室医生来和我们对接，他们甚至没有会做 PS 公告海报的人。
There is a lot of demand coming from hospitals or clinics at the county level in the surrounding districts, and there are almost no official announcements at the moment. "There are doctors in some county hospitals who come to us and they don't even have people who can put up PS posters."
”他们也看到，27 日开始，来自武汉市内医院的求助信息变少。
They also saw less help from hospitals in Wuhan starting on the 27th.
政府这一边的红十字会，湖北省总慈善局优先地供应到整个武汉市中心的一些医院，“现在非常紧缺的话可能就是周边。
On the government side, the Red Cross, the Hubei General Charity Bureau, gives priority to some hospitals throughout Wuhan city center.
”“武汉市红会只有十个人，湖北省红会有二十多个人。
"" There are only ten Wuhan Red Cross Societies and twenty Hubei Red Cross Societies.
”武汉市红十字会常务副会长陈耘接受财新【2】采访时说，“统计局给我们搞了三十个人，专门负责物资的清点、登记。
"The Bureau of Statistics has got us 30 people to take charge of the inventory and registration of materials," Chen Pao, the Wuhan Red Cross executive vice-president, said in an interview.
否则我们一共十个人，一个人分成十个人也搞不了。
Otherwise there would be ten of us, and we wouldn't be able to divide ourselves into ten.
我们现在有十六部热线电话。
We have sixteen hotlines now.
”我们采访到一位除夕开始参与武汉市红十字会工作的临时志愿者思思，她表示，目前负责前端的话务组和物资组一共一百人左右分三班倒，都是座机在进行对接通讯，“没有办法发送短信到他们的手机上面”，在和捐赠者核对产品标准时需要逐字让对方记下，这方面花费的时间就会比较长。
"We interviewed a makeshift volunteer who started working for the Wuhan Red Cross on New Year's Eve. She said the 100 people in charge of the front-end task force and the materials section were in three shifts.
“追踪一个人捐赠的物资是真的是没有时间去做的，因为每天捐赠的人太多了。
"Trying to track what a person is donating really doesn't have time to do, because there are so many people giving every day.
”*关于红十字会目前的工作方式，她更详细的口述可参见我们今天发布的另一条推送全国性的疫情扩散和恐慌让本就不足的医疗物资储备剧烈消耗，在工信部调配之下，大量物资从各地运往湖北省。
:: With regard to the current modus operandi of the Red Cross, she explained in more detail that another national epidemic, which we are releasing today, is draining already inadequate stocks of medical supplies from all over the country to Hubei Province under the Ministry of Industry and Communications.
而此前民政部规定，所有捐赠物资须交由湖北省 5 家官办背景的基金会，除定向捐赠外，统一调配。
Previously, the Ministry of Civil Affairs stipulated that all donations must be sent to five government-run foundations in Hubei Province, which will pool and allocate them in addition to targeted donations.
据我们了解，许多民间组织和人，因为担心其公信力和效率，仍尽量绕过红会等机构，自己想办法进行援助。
We understand that many civil society organizations and individuals, fearing for their credibility and efficiency, try to bypass institutions such as the Red Cross and find their own ways to assist.
娄菲表示，其所在的援助组织最开始也是捐往红十字会，“后来我们发现，很多都没办法直接送到医生的手上投入使用，我们也很着急，就只能想办法一对一地直接送到。
Mr. Lou says his organization, which started out as a donation to the Red Cross, "has found that many can't be delivered directly to doctors, and we're in a great hurry, so we have to figure out how to deliver directly, one to one.
”但信息不透明让这些组织感到难以判断，即便找到物资，应该往哪里捐。
But the opacity of the information makes it difficult for the groups to judge where to donate even if supplies are found.
“这两天群里进来了湖南湘雅医院的人，他们也缺物资。
"The people who came into Hunan Xiangya Hospital in the past two days also lacked supplies.
到底应该先紧着湖北的需求，还是应该给省外？我们觉得现在只能优先考虑湖北。
Should we focus on the needs of Hubei first, or should we give priority to Hubei?
毕竟现在最大的疫情还是在湖北省区。
After all, the biggest outbreak is in Hubei province.
”邹玲说，各地医疗物资储备不足而导致的大规模的医院求援，给民间组织的工作带来的困扰是“你不知道他们是紧缺还是想囤一批”，“不过我们也拉了个小群，帮忙留意，但目前还没走入采购的流程。
Zou Ling said the massive influx of hospital aid from inadequate medical supplies around the country was causing distress to civil society organizations' work, saying 'you don't know whether they're in need or want to hoard a batch,' 'but we've got a small group to help pay attention, but we're not in the procurement process yet.
”3.「我把自己想象成一个困在陕西省的湖北旅客，我尝试搜索陕西省相关文旅局的双微，发现找不到住宿相关的信息」1 月 26 日，500 万流动人口离开武汉的说法引起恐慌和随之而来的歧视。
"I picture myself as a Hubei tourist stranded in Shaanxi Province. I have tried to search for information about the situation in Shanxi Province." On January 26, the statement that five million migrants left Wuhan caused panic and the ensuing discrimination.
当晚，已有这样的信息在社交媒体转发：“请在全国各地暂时无法回省又无处可去的湖北人，寻找武汉大学校友企业东呈国际集团旗下酒店 ，接受湖北客人入住。
That evening, the message was relayed on social media: "Please search for Hubei people who are temporarily unable to return home and have nowhere else to go.
”更多湖北籍旅客在社交网络上说，他们无法返乡，也找不到住宿。
More Hubei travellers on social networks said they could not return home or find accommodation.
这是封城背景下，各地隔离流程不完善，公民防疫知识普及不足等带来的结果。
This is the background of the closure of the city, the isolation process is not perfect, the popularization of citizens epidemic prevention knowledge and other results.
27 日上午，邹嫣然、崔绮雯和几个朋友决定开一个石墨文档【3】，搜集网络上愿意提供住宿的酒店信息，这项工作很快就变成和全国各地的疾控中心、文旅局、甚至派出所，来回确认隔离安置点。
On the morning of July 27, Zou Yanran, Chee Yi Wen and several friends decided to open a graphite file [3] to collect information on hotels willing to provide accommodation on the Internet, which quickly turned into a round-trip identification of quarantined sites with CDC, VTC and even police stations across the country.
以下为整理后的口述，从中你能看到一个民间组织从发现需求、组织、遇到问题、重新组织工作的整个过程：从昨天（27 日）早上就开始收到挺多信息，最开始没有太注意，但这些在外留宿的人发出的求助信息越来越多，我开始觉得好像我们可以帮忙做这件事情。
The following is a collated dictation from which you can see the whole process of identifying needs, organizing, dealing with problems, reorganizing the work of a civil society organization: from the morning of yesterday (27th), it began to receive a lot of information, but at first it didn't pay much attention.
现在群里面是 39 个人。
There are 39 people in the group.
一开始是把微信、微博上大量的信息，有求助的，也有发布当地住宿情况的，无论是不是官方的，把这些信息搜集起来。
The first is to micromail, Weibo a large amount of information, some for help, and some local accommodation, whether official or not, gather this information.
今天（28 日）上午我们开了一次会，决定接下来要做两条线推进，一个是志愿者核实上述信息，一个是昨天晚上比较晚的时候，开始看到政府的安置点信息，要联系各地的疾控中心和文旅局，确认当地的安置信息。
We had a meeting this morning and decided that we were going to have two lines of communication. One was volunteers checking the information, the other was late last night when they started to see government resettlement information and contact local CDC and VTC to confirm the local resettlement information.
也有一些其他团体自发做同样的工作，我们也联系了对方，他们的信息我们一并放进文档，核查一下，因为各自的发布渠道是不一样的。
There are other groups that do the same work on their own initiative, and we contact each other, and we put their information into the files and check it out, because the distribution channels are different.
我们现在分开两个文档，官方的信息，和比较民间的酒店信息，昨天是混在一起的。
We now separate the two documents, the official information, and the comparison of the civil hotel information, yesterday is mixed.
目前看，还是民间的酒店数量多，但是不那么稳定。
At present, or the number of non-governmental hotels, but not so stable.
有些我们核实过了，旅客真正去的时候，却不接收了。
Some of them we checked, the passengers actually went, but did not accept.
我这边搜索信息的时候发现，主要的难点是非常难获取某个地区的信息。
When I looked for information on this side, the main difficulty was that it was very difficult to get information about a particular region.
我的方法是，把自己想象成，假设我是一个湖北旅客，我被困在陕西省，就先搜索陕西省政府的，文旅局的双微信息，我发现都没有。
My method is to think of myself as a Hubei tourist, I am trapped in Shaanxi Province, first search the Shaanxi provincial government, the literature and tourism bureau, dual micro-information, I found no.
我们第一批核实的时候也发现，云南 27 日就直接发了个函，但很多旅店没收到通知，对方说不太了解，还在等通知。
When we first checked, we found that Yunnan sent a letter directly on the 27th, but many hotels were not informed, the other side said they do not know, is still waiting for notification.
打给柳州市雅和酒店的时候——它后来很快被选作官方定点的酒店——我 1 点钟打过去，她说还不确定，让我 5 点致电。
When I called Ya and the hotel in Liuzhou, which was soon chosen as the official hotel, I called at 1: 00. She said she wasn't sure. Let me call at 5.
到 7 点看我还没回拨，她就主动给我打了电话。
Before I could call back at 7 o'clock, she volunteered to call me.
官方发布的信息，我们以普通人的身份打过去，其实获取的信息不多。
Official information, we call as ordinary people, in fact, access to little information.
很多所谓官方信息是互联网上有人拍了官方的函，里面提到了某些酒店的名字，我们就去搜索。
A lot of the so-called official information is that someone on the Internet has taken an official letter mentioning the names of certain hotels, so we went to search.
如果先打电话给各地疾控中心，不同地区给的反馈是不一样的，有的你要去打 12320 才会有，但你打过去，他会让你打另一个电话；另一个是官方和民间酒店的部分，很多官方会有指定点，但有些官方没有。
If you call the CDC first, the feedback varies from place to place, some you have to call 12320, but if you call, he will tell you to make another call; the other is part of the official and private hotels, many of which have designated points, but some don't.
我们在做信息的时候就要考虑到，是不是要把私自接收的信息公开出去。
We have to consider when we do the information, whether or not to open up the private information received.
现在有一些省市陆续发出来函的截图，昨天晚上还以为今天会有很多相关安排，所以我们今天早上才会把工作重心转到官方安置点的整理，但我们现在进行了 3 个小时，整理上还是比较困难。
Some cities and provinces are sending out screenshots of their communications. Last night we thought there would be a lot of arrangements, so this morning we will shift our focus to the official settlement, but we have been working on it for three hours and it is difficult to sort it out.
我们其实不太确定哪一种方式是可行的。
We are not really sure which approach is feasible.
流程很简单，首先打给省级、市级文旅局、疾控中心，如果在函里有酒店名字，就直接打给酒店。
The process is very simple, call the provincial, city, CDC, if there is a hotel name in the letter, call the hotel directly.
还有一些是直接打不通的。
Still others are not directly accessible.
昨天晚上我看到武汉市文旅局有发“各地武汉人住的合集”，跟我们的列表蛮像的，可能也是从网上整合，然后发出来。
Last night I saw the Wuhan Bureau of Culture and Tourism hair "all over the collection of Wuhan people," and our list pretty similar, probably from online integration, and then send.
目前我们遇到很大的困难就是信息很散，我们原来有一个思路就是能不能从官方要到批量的信息，比如一个省一个市有没有列表，我们就自己整理，但是没有。
At present, we encounter great difficulties is very scattered information, we have a way of thinking from the official to the batch of information, such as whether a province and a city have a list, we do their own collation, but not.
还有一种情况，也是政府指定（的酒店），但他们那边太忙，要接待的人太多，就让对方直接过去找他们了。
But they are too busy to take in too many people, so let them go straight to them.
比较热心的两个地区好像是湛江和云南。
The two more zealous regions seem to be Zhanjiang and Yunnan.
还打给过南京市，打给疾控中心他们说，内部已经接到通知，要做安置点，但需要各方协调，要先查明在南京市的湖北籍旅客信息和数量，之后才能公布（安置点），所以目前还没协商出来。
Also called Nanjing city, call the CDC they said that the internal notification to do resettlement, but the need for coordination, to find out the information and the number of Hubei passengers in Nanjing, before it can be announced (resettlement sites), has not been negotiated.
所以关于安置隔离的流程，目前看来比较复杂，各地不能一份通用。
Therefore, the process of resettlement isolation, at present seems to be more complex, cannot be a one-size-fits-all.
比较清楚的是云南省，他们有个 APP，有一些地方要找传染病防控中心；广州越秀区，要先登记名字，他们会联系安排；还有一种是找派出所，或者公安局，或者居委会。
In Yunnan Province, they have an APP, and there are places to look for the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Center. In Yuexiu District of Guangzhou, the name is registered first, they will contact the arrangement.
现在仍然有求助我们的人，他们会比较不知道怎么去做。
There are people who still turn to us, and they will be less aware of how to do it.
民间有挺多是按正常收费，或者已经收到政府通知，按成本价接收旅客。
Many people in the civil society pay normal fees, or have been informed by the government to accept passengers at cost price.
免费的比较少，如果是免费的话，多是已经密切接触的观察点或者是定点隔离。
Fewer are free of charge, and most, if free of charge, are already in close contact with observation points or targeted isolation.
有一些信息有误传，包括湛江那边，说是免费提供，但其实他们是正常收费。
There is some misinformation, including on the other side of the Zhanjiang River, that it is provided free of charge, but in fact they are normal fees.
也有一些是政府打过招呼，调控过了。
Some of them were greeted by the government and regulated.
很多城市都是不同的部门在负责，可能要先去查，再进一步查询分配到的、可以住宿的地方。
Many cities are in charge of different departments, may have to check first, and then further inquiries about the allocation of accommodation.
现在大的优先级，我们讨论出来是分两拨人，一边完善昨天做出来的住宿信息，另一边，有人负责搜集疾控中心的联系方式，通过疾控中心找到安置点。
Now the big priority, we are talking about two groups of people, on the one hand to improve yesterday's done accommodation information, on the other hand, someone responsible for collecting CDC contact information, through the CDC to find resettlement places.
两件事情在平行地跑。
The two events were running in parallel.
我们已经想了一些办法，专门有人在微博上收集求助信息，点对点发给 TA。
We've come up with ways to have someone collect help messages on microblogs and send them to TA point-to-point.
我们也在过程中把链接加到其他支援团队的文档里。
We also added links to the documentation of other support teams during the process.
媒体传播的方面，有一个小伙伴联系了三联、新周刊。
On the media side, a small partner contacted Triple Link, New Weekly.
我们还在微博上 @ 了邱晨等几个大 V，希望能让更多人看到。
We also @ Qiu Chen on Weibo and a few large V, hope to let more people see.
我还是担心，没办法把这些信息分发到需要的人手上。
I'm still worried that I can't get this information out to the people who need it.
我刚刚翻了一下留言，发现报名志愿者、提供住宿的比到我们这里求助的人（17 个）要多。
I just flipped through my message and found that more people signed up to volunteer and offered accommodation than we did (17).
* 截至 1 月 29 日 24 时，温州市累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例 172 例，也成为全国仅次于武汉、黄冈、孝感、荆门之后，确诊数最多的地级市。
:: As of 2400 hours on January 29, Wenzhou has reported 172 confirmed cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection, making it the city with the highest number of confirmed cases after Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety and Jingmen.
以下志愿组织整理集合了温州的疫情相关信息，内容持续更新。
The following voluntary organizations collated Wenzhou epidemic-related information, the content of continuous updating.
温州高温青年社区「驰援温州计划」：https://shimo.im/docs/QVWgkXVH3d3RJPWP/read「新型肺炎* [瑞安]及周边 信息共享平台」：https://shimo.im/docs/VXhjHWHxCpGWy6cx/相关链接：【1】南周报道：160 余家医院求援，医疗储备为何不足？http://www.infzm.com/wap/#/content/175410【2】财新报道：武汉市红会回应截捐传言 http://china.caixin.com/2020-01-29/101509351.html【3】全国疾控热线+住宿指南，由 BottleDream 志愿者编辑https://shimo.im/docs/QqRwdyKDTyWKyrXG/read——华盛顿大学的 Louis Kim 及其团队做过一个研究，量化模型显示，当媒体的报道量增加十倍，传染病的感染数将会减少 33.5％。
The Wenzhou High Temperature Youth Community Program: https: / / shimo.im / docs / QVWgkXVH3d3RJPWP / read "New pneumonia * # 91; Ryan & # 93; and Peripheral Information Sharing Platform": http: / / shimo.com / wap / # / content / 1754101.html.
面对疫情，公民除了配合和感动，还可以了解什么？我们是几个记者（前），临时组成一个报道小组，试图在当下提供一些关于新型冠状病毒传染病的新的视角。
In the face of the epidemic, what else can the citizens understand besides cooperating and moving? We are a few journalists (former), temporarily forming a reporting group to try to provide a new perspective on the new coronavirus infection.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
刷屏、阻滞、信任危机，民间救援力量的处境。
Brush screen, block, crisis of confidence, the situation of civil rescue forces.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "刷屏、阻滞、信任危机，民间救援力量的处境";。
var msg _ title = & quot; painting, blocking, a crisis of confidence, and the situation with civil-rescue services;;
var msg_desc = "这些想帮上忙的人都遇到了什么？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; What & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
