三名一线志愿者口述：红会、校友会、物资信息平台。
Three frontline volunteers dictated: Red Cross Society, Alumni Association, Material Information Platform.
两个记者。
Two journalists.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
"追踪一个人捐赠的物资是真的是没有时间去做的，因为每天捐赠的人太多了"\ 思思，武汉红十字会临时志愿者，话务组\中国红十字会截至 1 月 25 日，累计接受爱心捐赠达 3.4 亿元，接受捐赠款物 2.74 亿元，已向武汉等疫情较严重地区调拨价值 1245.88 万元物资和1000 万元现金。
As of January 25, the Wuhan Red Cross has received a total of 340 million yuan in donations and 274 million yuan in donations. It has transferred 12,458,800 yuan worth of materials and 10 million yuan in cash to places with severe epidemics, such as Wuhan.
【1】疫情爆发后，湖北省指定五家机构接收捐赠款物，武汉红十字会为其中之一。
The Wuhan Red Cross Society was one of five organizations designated by Hubei province to receive donations after the outbreak.
现在我们分为话务组和物资组，三班倒，话务组差不多有四、五十个人，物资组应该也是五、六十人，整个武汉红十字会的人力放在这里，差不多是这么多人，24小时都有人值班。
We are now divided into telephone and material groups, three shifts, almost four or fifty people on the call desk, fifty or sixty people in the supplies section, almost so many people on duty 24 hours a day throughout the Wuhan Red Cross.
基本上过去就是培训，培训之后开始接电话，物资和捐款都可以接受。
Essentially it used to be training, and after the training started answering the phone, goods and donations were acceptable.
物资的话就告诉他们怎么捐，捐到哪里，需要符合哪些标准。
Materials tell them how to donate, where to donate, and what criteria to meet.
追踪一个人捐赠的物资是真的没有时间去做的，因为每天捐赠的人太多了，我每天可能接不下100个电话，真的没有精力去做这个追踪。
Trying to track a person's donation isn't really the time to do, because there are so many donors every day that I might not be able to pick up 100 calls a day, and I really don't have the energy to do it.
有些标准编号很长，都会给他报，他们需要用纸和笔记下，再跟他确认是正确无误的，这个就会相对来说麻烦，通话时间会稍微长一些。
Some standards are so long that they give him a newspaper. They need to use paper and notes to confirm with him that they are correct, which is relatively cumbersome and takes a little longer.
我们这边都是座机，没有办法发送短信到他们的手机上面。
We're all landlines and there's no way to send text messages to their phones.
现在工作就是对着几台座机，没有电脑用的，记录的话每天都会有表格，写下来，比如说联系人、联系人姓名，然后需要解决的问题，反馈情况，还有一些备注诸如此类的，每次交班的时候进行汇总。
Now work is on a couple of landlines, no computers, and every day there are tables with notes, such as contacts, contact names, questions that need to be addressed, feedback, and so on, that you summarize at each shift.
物资组主要负责的就是一个是搬运，运送到红十字会的一些物资，还会有一些志愿者车队，去帮忙运输这些物资。
The main responsibility of the Material Unit is to carry, transport to the Red Cross some supplies, there will also be a number of volunteer convoys to help transport these supplies.
小件的捐赠是寄到红十字会，大件寄到我们的物流点，有一个物流点已经爆仓了。
Small donations are sent to the Red Cross, large to our logistics point, one of which has been opened.
接受捐赠之后，交由卫健委，他们在这边有一个指挥中心，来统一分配给各个医院。
After accepting the donation, the health care committee, they have a command center here, to be distributed to the hospitals.
还有一个就是定向捐赠，如果那边捐赠人要求指定捐给某些医院，比如说有的要捐赠给雷神山、火神山医院，是通知医院的人过来，直接在我们红十字会或者物流仓去领取。
There is also a targeted donation, if the donor request to be earmarked for certain hospitals, such as Lei Shenshan, Mount Fire Hospital, is to notify the hospital people to come, directly at our Red Cross or the logistics warehouse to receive.
定向捐赠现在存在一些质疑。
There are now some doubts about targeted donations.
定向捐赠的话，是需要联系医院，还需要写一个定向捐赠意向书，提供医院的联络人，医院开公函过来才能定向领取的。
Targeted donation, the need to contact the hospital, also need to write a targeted donation letter of intent, provide a hospital contact person, the hospital to open an official letter to receive the targeted.
定向捐赠的物品，首先需要有医疗器械的三证，捐赠意向书上面需要有捐赠单位生产厂家，品牌、品种、规格用途数量以及捐赠的价值，医疗器械的三证是需要有复印件或者电子版，走这些程序之后，才能确定这个是有效或者符合应用标准的产品，可以直接给到医院。
First of all, a letter of intent to donate items requires three certificates of medical equipment. The letter of intent requires the manufacturer of the donation unit, the brand name, the variety, the quantity of use and the value of the donation.
然后随快递一起，放到比如说快递箱里边儿捐赠过来。
Then come along with the courier and donate it, say, in the express box.
根据定向捐赠书上注明捐赠的医院，咱们就会跟医院的人联系，医院的人开一个医院的公函，能够证明他是医院的，过来领取就可以了。
According to the hospital to which the donation is directed, we will contact the people in the hospital, who will open an official letter from the hospital and prove that he is in the hospital.
如果没有给这个定向捐赠意向书，就会被卫健委进行统一分配。
If there is no expression of interest for this targeted donation, it will be distributed uniformly by the health care committee.
卫建委会看这些物资是否合规，如果达不到标准的，可能会分发给社区或者是居民。
The NRC looks at whether the materials are in compliance and, if not up to standard, may be distributed to the community or residents.
每天我自己接的这部电话，基本上工作的八个小时到八个半小时之内，是没有停歇的。
The phone I pick up every day, basically works for eight hours to eight and a half hours, without a break.
如果是普通的捐款可能一分钟左右，捐赠物资的话可能两到三分钟，有的是要捐赠医疗器械，有的是海外捐赠，那可能就会时间长一些，五到十分钟的样子，还有的比如说要定点捐赠，因为要跟他说需要提供哪些材料，时间会更长一些。
If ordinary donations are likely to be in the order of a minute or so, donations could be in the order of two to three minutes, from donations of medical equipment to donations from abroad, which might be longer, five to ten minutes, or, for instance, targeted donations, because it would take longer to tell him what materials were needed.
打电话进来的人不一定全部都是要捐钱或者是捐医疗物资的，还有很多就是想捐蔬菜呀，瓜果呀，今天我还接到一个要捐草莓的，然后还有捐大米的。
Not all the callers are donating money or medical supplies, and a lot of them are donating vegetables, melons and fruit. Today I got a strawberry giver and then a rice donor.
有很多外地的朋友都想过来当志愿者，甚至今天还有一个北京的车队说他有100多台车，想过来帮忙运输，但咱们现在暂时不接受这些外地的志愿者。
There are a lot of friends from other places who would like to volunteer. Even today a team in Beijing says that he has more than 100 cars and wants to help transport them.
也有一些海外捐赠我们一开始不知道怎么处理，因为武汉市红十字会是不能接受海外捐赠的，现在我们就转而让他们联系慈善总会。
There are also some overseas donations that we didn't know how to handle at first because the Wuhan Red Cross can't accept donations from overseas.
还有的话就是咱们武汉这边不是实行私家车管控吗？收到短信的私家车主是不能上路的，其实私家车组成的车队现在还是有的。
If we Wuhan is not the implementation of private car control? Private car owners who receive text messages is not on the road, in fact, private cars composed of the fleet is still available.
不让上路的私家车是近期去过医院的，这些私家车的车主会收到短信，没有收到短信的私家车主都是可以上路的，不是像传言中的那种一刀切。
Private cars are not allowed to go to the hospital recently, the owners of these private cars will receive text messages, private car owners who do not receive text messages are allowed to go on the road, not like the rumor that one-size-fits-all.
最近有很多传言说我们收手续费，其实我们都是免费的，自己出人出力出车出油，这边就是给志愿者管一餐饭，其他都是免费义务的。
Recently there are a lot of rumors that we charge handling fees, in fact we are free, their own contribution to the car out of the oil, here is to volunteer a meal, the rest are free of charge.
网络上的人我觉得是太闲了，造谣。
People on the internet I think it's too idle to tell rumors.
因为我们连谣言是哪来的都不知道，当天有谣言之后，马上长江日报就有记者过来采访，马上就辟谣了。
Because we do not know where the rumor is, that day after rumors, immediately Changjiang Daily reporters came to interview, immediately refuted the rumor.
这其实就是我工作这段时间以来最生气的吧。
This is actually the most irritating thing I've been working on.
对于红十字会整体运转效率比较低的质疑，现在大家在过年期间，很多口罩厂没有开工，很多物流没有开工，可能选择的一些物流就还没有发到武汉，这是其一；其二口罩啊这些医疗物品都是一次性的，消耗是非常大的，可能捐到了当天就消耗了，还可能还不够当天的消耗，可能出现这样的一个情况。
During the New Year, many mask factories did not start, many logistics did not start, some of the logistics may not have been sent to Wuhan, which is one of them; the other is that these medical supplies are disposable, very costly, may be donated to the day of consumption, and may not be enough for the day's consumption.
我们分发都是非常及时的，我们之前那个国药控股的物流仓满了之后，现在又开辟了新的物流仓，再就是一些小件到咱们红十字会，发出去都是非常及时的，可能只有晚上会堆积一些这些物资。
Our distribution was very timely. After our previous GP logistics warehouse was full, a new warehouse was opened, and some small pieces to our Red Cross Society were sent out in a timely fashion, probably only in the evening.
物流仓那边有专人去负责，我们这边主要就是负责前端，就是接收咨询。
Logistics warehouse there are people in charge, we are mainly responsible for the front end, is to receive advice.
我看不到那些物品捐到哪儿了，这个都是后端人员的工作；这边也看不到医院的需求，会有一些急缺物品的名单，我们会跟捐赠者说他们的规格。
I can't see where those items are being donated, it's all back-end work; there's no need for hospitals, there's a list of items in short supply, and we'll talk to the donors about their specifications.
咱们这边出现了有志愿者临时发热的状况，之前分发口罩可能一天会发一次，现在会定时的来消毒，我今天一班大概消了三次毒，定时测体温，还会两、三个小时发一个口罩。
Here we have a temporary fever of volunteers, before the distribution of masks may be a day, now will be regular disinfection, I took about three times today, regular temperature tests, and two or three hours will be issued a mask.
就是这一个改变。
That's the change.
我觉得现在挺好的，大家都非常热心，想法都非常好啊，不管是捐赠方还是现在的运作体系就是慢慢在完善，觉得还挺好的。
I think it's good, everyone is very enthusiastic, and the idea is very good, whether the donor or the current operating system is slowly improving, feel good.
"他们有他们的布局，可是我们只能看到一线"\ 娄菲，武大MBA校友会物资捐助小组，捐赠组\武大 MBA 志愿者小组目前有 300 多人。
They have their layout, but we only see a line or two; Lou Fei, a donation group from the MBA Alumni Association at Wu University; and a team of more than 300 volunteers from the Wu University MBA Group.
截止 1 月 27 日下午 2 点，与 13 个爱心组织及个人进行确认正式捐赠事宜，捐赠品类从口罩到护目镜到防护服等，口罩超过 6 万个，护目镜超过 5000 副，防护服超过 1000套。
As of 2: 00 p.m. on 27 January, official donations had been made to 13 caring organisations and individuals, donating items ranging from masks to goggles to protective clothing, over 60,000 masks, over 5,000 pairs of goggles and over 1,000 suits of protective clothing.
武大校友会的捐赠组织是在大年三十那天，武大的一个校友自发组织的，当时群内只有自己身边的个别几个人，后来人进来的多了，大概 200多人的时候，信息刷的就会非常快，基本上都是在发求助的信息。
The donation organization of the Alumni Association of Wu University was organized spontaneously on the 30th anniversary of the Chinese New Year. There were only a few alumni in the group. Later, more people came in.
因为信息很杂乱，需要一些工作组织去把工作流程理顺，当下就成立了四个小组。
As the information was messy and some work organization was needed to streamline the workflow, four teams were formed.
捐赠组负责的去群内收集捐赠者的信息；第二个组是受捐组，所有刷屏的这些求助信息，会去跟他们核实，要他们的一个工作证明，去网上查他们在医院里是否还在职。
The donor group collects donor information in the group; the second group is the recipient group. All the screen-scrubbing information is checked with them to see if they are still in the hospital on the Internet for a job certificate.
受捐小组统计好信息之后，会快速匹配医院，联系到要捐赠的志愿者，达到这样的一个对接作用；第三个是运输小组，有一些物资从别的地方自己开车或者包车运过来，但他们是进不了城的，组织就会联系武汉市内的车辆，把他们的货物接过来，运到指定的医院，或者是我们自己核实过的医院。
Once the donation team has counted the information, it will quickly match the hospital and contact the volunteers to be donated to achieve such a docking role. The third is the transport team, which brings some supplies from elsewhere in their own cars or charters, but they cannot get into the city.
然后还有一个组是属于海外，因为现在国内的物资基本上能够的符合标准的几乎已经没有了，再加上现在政府介入不是都已经征用了吗？就会看看海外有没有一些可以使用或者是符合标准的，想一些办法解决这个情况。
Then there is another group that is overseas, because there are almost no more goods that basically meet the standards at home, and now that not all government intervention has been requisitioned? See if there is something available or up-to-date overseas and figure out how to resolve the situation.
最开始对接的是武汉市内的几大定点医院，也是所有捐赠物资都先放到红十字会那边的，后来我们发现，放到红十字会那边的物资，很多都没办法直接送到医生的手上投入使用。
The most initial docking was at the major designated hospitals in Wuhan, where all the donated materials were put to the Red Cross first. Later, we found that many of the materials put into the Red Cross could not be delivered directly to doctors for use.
我们也很着急。
We're in a hurry too.
因为我们有联系医院，核实到那边缺什么物资之后，才放到红十字会那边，但各方面的整个流程批下来，就不太有办法能及时地送到医生手上。
Because we had contact with the hospital to verify what was missing there before we put it on the Red Cross side, but the whole process was approved and there was little way to get it to the doctor in time.
医生一直反馈说没有收到物资，没有东西用了，就是这样的一个情况。
Doctors have been reporting no supplies, nothing to use, that's one of those things.
我们就只能想办法一对一地直接送到他们手上，让他们去使用。
We'll just have to figure out how to get one-on-one straight to them for them to use.
这两天政府逐渐征用了国内的口罩厂之类的，所以说很多资源都慢慢地，在往武汉市内倾斜，我们又收到消息说，武汉之外的其他城市包括黄冈或者是荆门这些地方都非常的缺。
Over the past two days, the government has gradually expropriated the mask factory in China, so many resources have been gradually tilted to Wuhan, and we have received reports that other cities outside Wuhan, including Huanggang or Jingmen, are in short supply.
尤其是那种乡镇的卫生所，根本就没有东西可以用，甚至说没有那种安全卫生帽，然后只能用袋子；口罩没有，别说那个 N95 或者外科口罩，就是保健口罩他们都没有，防护服和护目镜他们，尤其是护目镜，他们从一开始就一个都没有过。
In particular, the township clinics had nothing to use, not even safety helmets, and then bags; the masks, not to mention the N95 or surgical mask, even the health masks, which they did not have, protective clothing and goggles.
这些人又是直接接触疑似或者是已经确诊的病人们，他们的防护非常的紧张。
These people are in direct contact with suspected or diagnosed patients, their protection is very tense.
那么我们现在主要的精力都是想办法往他们那边去，输送武汉市内暂时就停一停，我们的捐赠目标发生了一个变化，大概是从前天晚上，我们晚上 12 点开了一个会议，一个是封路根本运不过去，再一个就是说物资各方面都在逐渐往市内倾斜了，我们才商讨出来说往武汉外的地方去送。
So our main energy now is to find a way to their side, to send Wuhan city for a temporary stop, we have a change in the night before, about the night before, we held a meeting at 12: 00 pm, one is the closure of the road, another is gradually tilted toward the city, we discussed outside Wuhan to send.
我这边一旦有人想要捐赠，或是受捐组一旦说某一个医院现在特别的缺，缺多少，我就会去想办法组织捐赠者。
Once someone on my side wants to donate, or if the donor group says that a particular hospital is in short supply, I will try to organize donors.
会拉一个群直接对接到医院的需求方，比如说护士之类的，罗列他们所需要的物资。
Pull a group of people to the hospital directly to the demand side, such as nurses and so on, listing their needs.
群里会有医院的直接对接人，我们的捐赠者，还有捐赠组和受捐组的工作者，基本上是这样的。
There will be direct docking at the hospital, our donors, and the donor and recipient groups, basically the same.
群里会发医务人员的工作证明，这个证明其实我们之前已经核实过，但让医院的对接人发主要也是对这个捐赠者负责。
The work of the medical staff in the group proved that we had checked the certificate before, but that the hospital's docking personnel were primarily responsible to the donor.
从昨天晚上开始，差不多就是点对点，一个医院拉一个群这样的一个形式。
Since last night, it's almost a point-to-point, a hospital pulling a group of such a form.
不停在优化，因为各种信息更新的太快了，物资需求现在不光是我们这一个组织，很多组织都在做捐赠。
Optimization is ongoing, as information is updated too quickly, and material needs are now not just for our organization, many organizations are donating.
所以可能需求每半天就要更新一次，比如上午说需要什么物资，到了中午就不需要了，或者说又需要了。
So it may need to be updated every half-day, say, what you need in the morning, but by noon you won't need it, or you'll need it again.
我这边直接经手的黄冈有三家医院，孝感也有一家医院，现在对接的是一个镇的卫生院。
There are three hospitals in Huanggang, directly through my side, and there is a hospital for filial piety.
他们都是现在眼前当下就已经在缺了，比如说，有一些乡镇要去一些确诊的病人家里去给他们做消毒之类的，都没有任何的保证保障，顶多有时候有一个保健口罩，或者好一点，有一个外科口罩戴一下，基本上都是没有任何防护的。
For example, there are some townships that go to the homes of diagnosed patients to disinfect them, without any guarantee, at best sometimes with a health mask or, better yet, a surgical mask, basically without any protection.
其实现在武汉市内几家医院的医生也还缺一部分物资，因为他们收到的政府物资并没有那么及时。
In fact, doctors in several hospitals in Wuhan are also short of supplies, because the government supplies they receive are not so timely.
更别说是武汉外的一些，就几乎是拿不到这些的。
Not to mention some outside Wuhan, it is almost impossible to get these.
像今天有一个群里，我们收到的消息说上面有 500 套防护服发过来，然后他们说接到通知说只有 100 套，还要发给其他镇上的医院去分着用。
As in one group today, we received word that 500 suits had been sent, and then they said they had been notified that there were only 100 units and that they would be distributed to hospitals in other towns.
比如说有一个小镇的医院，是个精神病院，也有确诊的一例病人，又不配合治疗也不接受隔离。
For example, there is a small town hospital, a psychiatric hospital, and there has been a confirmed case of a patient who does not cooperate with treatment and is not segregated.
医院一旦确诊之后，医护人员什么都没有，他们的需求就很卑微， 20 个护目镜， 21 套防护服，都是这样子，数字都是非常少，但是他们也没有，有这种情况我们都是优先尽量先给他们运过去。
Once the hospital was diagnosed, the doctors and nurses had nothing, their needs were low, 20 goggles, 21 suits, all of them like this, very few, but neither did they, and in such cases we gave priority to transporting them as much as possible.
又比如说，昨天有一个河南的捐赠组织要捐赠 40 台消毒灯，我们就联系了武汉外的一些小医院，那边没有消毒灯，医护人员要背着几十斤的消毒水去消毒，我们就优先安排他们先给他们寄过去了。
For example, yesterday a donation organization in Henan will donate 40 disinfectant lamps. We contacted some small hospitals outside Wuhan, where there are no disinfection lights. Medical staff have to carry dozens of kilograms of disinfectant water to disinfect them.
其他的地方又缺了，只能再做登记。
The rest of the country was missing and had to be re-registered.
酒精就很愁，基本上没有办法运输到他们手上。
Alcohol is so worrying that it's almost impossible to get it to them.
只能说买 84 消毒液，这个也比较困难。
Can say buy 84 disinfectant only, this also is difficult.
他们现在已经就是实在没什么东西用了，只能说去给他们捐 84 消毒的泡腾片寄过去应急。
They are now really nothing to use, can only say to donate to them 84 disinfectant bubble Tablets sent to emergency.
现在全部都是，只要有就可以，因为他们现在什么都没有了。
Now it's all, as long as there is, because they have nothing now.
只要它是有国家资质的一些厂家出来的，符不符合规格和标准，这个都已经顾不上了。
As long as it is qualified by a number of national manufacturers, do not meet the specifications and standards, this has been ignored.
不能说所有的东西都非常流程化，符合标准。
It cannot be said that everything is very procedural and meets the criteria.
没有办法，来不及的，我们现在群里面 28 个工作人员都是 24 小时轮班的，然后有一个工作者，工作强度非常大，不停地在联络，也顾不上吃饭，都发烧了。
No way, no time. We now have 28 people in the group on 24-hour shifts, and then a worker who's working very hard, keeps in touch, doesn't care about food, and has a fever.
他是在武汉的，就自己在家里自我隔离，后来实在是我们的总负责人，看他实在是不行了，才强制让他休息的。
He was in Wuhan, on their own in the home isolation, and then we are really in charge of the general, see he is really no longer able to force him to rest.
货运基本上就只能发顺丰了，有一个问题就是速度会比较慢。
Freight basically can only be prosperous, a problem is that the speed will be relatively slow.
顺丰现在不能走绿色通道，绿色通道只针对政府，还有一些慈善机构之类的。
Shunfeng can not take the green channel now, the green channel only for the government, there are some charities and so on.
普通民间捐赠的，有些从淘宝上下单或者有一些顺丰，任何发货他们只能用普通的速度往武汉那边走。
Ordinary folk donation, some from Taobao up and down single or some Shunfeng, any delivery they can only use ordinary speed to Wuhan side.
我们不对接厂家，对接的是捐赠人，而且不接受任何捐款，也尽量不接触他们的渠道的问题。
We do not dock the manufacturers, docking is the donor, and do not accept any donations, and do not try to contact their channels.
因为这些比较敏感，尤其像捐款这一方面的。
Because these are sensitive, especially in the area of donations.
比如说，有一些人他们是做微商的，或者是做代购的，以捐赠者的名义是在群里面联系到了一些厂家之后，以捐赠者的名义购买大量的口罩，又在我们的群里高价去买。
For example, some people do micro-business, or do agent, in the name of the donor is linked to a number of manufacturers in the group, the name of a large number of donors to buy a large number of masks, and in our group to buy high-priced.
这是我们这两天发现一个相对比较恶劣的，像一些情节恶劣的就保留证据留着报警。
It's two days since we found a relatively nasty case, like some of the aggravating circumstances on the retention of evidence to the police.
物资的话只要符合标准而且价格合适，现在大家心里都是清楚的，这个价格基本上都是透明的，什么样的价格是合理的？大家都会认为说这是一个没有什么私心的一个渠道供应。
Now it is clear to everyone that the prices are basically transparent and reasonable as long as the goods are up to standard and the price is right? Everyone will think that it is an unselfish source of supply.
到了现在我们发现团体组织形式的越来越少了，大部分还都是以个人的形式。
By now we are finding that there are fewer and fewer forms of group organization, most of which are still in the form of individuals.
而且个人捐赠者也都尽力了。
And individual donors did their best.
昨天还是前天有一个捐赠志愿者，下单了之后他说，我的花呗限额了。
Yesterday or the day before yesterday there was a donation of volunteers, after ordering, he said, my flower quota.
非常全力在做这个事情，但是大家个人还是有自己的极限。
You're doing it with all your might, but there are limits to how far you can go.
我们想达到的一个作用，就是说如果他们想要奉献这份爱心，一定要让他们有一个信任的感觉，再一个也希望所核实的医院，是实实在在能够接收到他们的物资使用的。
One of the things we want to achieve is that if they want to give this love, they have to have a sense of trust, and another wants to verify that the hospital is actually receiving their supplies.
要是他们花了钱买了，屯到那里用不了，是很伤心的事。
It would be sad if they spent money on it and could not afford it there.
个人的志愿者几乎每天大部分的时间都在做这个事情，不停的刷消息不停地去看那边的情况。
Individual volunteers do this most of the day, constantly brushing information to see what's going on.
他们还会到处去化缘，都是这么说的，我再去化缘一波，看看还有没有人可以帮助的。
They're going to go anywhere, that's what they're saying. I'm gonna go back to the edge and see if there's anyone else to help.
国内的医疗物资基本上已经没了，消耗没了。
Medical supplies in the country are largely gone and depleted.
再加上过年工人都回家去了，厂里面制造的这个问题很难解决。
Besides, all the Chinese New Year workers have gone home. The problem created in the factory is very difficult to solve.
很多工人他们都是外来务工的，这个事情出来之前他们就已经在老家了，工人非常缺，根本就做不出来，也不可能一下子回到工作岗位上去。
Many of the workers, who were migrant workers, had been at home since before this event, and the workers were so scarce that they could not work at all and could not be brought back to work at once.
再加上现在又有些地方封路，封车，走不了。
And now there are places where roads are blocked and cars are blocked.
工人没有，运输也有很大的问题。
No workers. There's a big problem with transportation.
本来一些民间的，一些市民自发的组织可以接货的，现在都不行了，因为他们没有通行证。
Originally some folk, some citizens spontaneous organization can receive goods, now can not, because they do not have a pass.
之前还遇到过那种，我们的运输车辆或是民间其他志愿者的运输车辆，到了医院门口，这个物资送不进去，没人接收的问题。
I've seen the kind of thing that happens when our transport vehicle, or that of other civilian volunteers, arrives at the gate of a hospital and this stuff doesn't get in, no one accepts it.
现在很多民间说要捐赠，他们问各个快递公司说有什么办法，他们说那你就捐赠到当地的慈善会或者是红十字会。
Now many people say they want to donate. They ask the courier companies what they can do. They say you donate to the local charity or the Red Cross.
他们专门开通了增援武汉的绿色通道，但只针对各个地方的政府和红十字会之间。
They opened a special green passage to reinforce Wuhan, but only for local governments and the Red Cross.
黄冈也出现了不能接受外部捐赠的一个情况。
Huang Gang also appeared to be unable to accept an external donation.
但是他们很需要，所以我们就只能小件发顺丰，然后直接送到医生手里。
But they needed it, so we had to make it small and send it directly to the doctor.
对于政府，红十字机构各方面的也好，还有包括他们流程怎么样的，我没有什么偏见，他们可能是从大局上面有一些布局上面的考虑。
I have no prejudice to the government, the Red Cross in all its aspects, and what their processes are like. They may have some layout considerations on top of the big picture.
只是说我们现在做的这个事情，是看到了一线的医护人员非常紧缺的一个情况，我们只想在不给国家添乱的前提下多帮帮他们。
It's just that what we're doing right now is a case of a shortage of front-line health care workers, and we just want to help them more without causing trouble to the country.
但最大一个问题就是，它可能一下子没有办法实质性的解决掉这些医护人员的问题，因为覆盖的范围比较大。
The biggest problem, however, is that it may not be able to deal with the health-care problem substantially at once, because the coverage is large.
他们有他们的布局，可是我们只能看到一线；他们看到的跟我们看到的不一样，我们只能看到医护一线的医生套着塑料袋上班，睡不了觉没时间吃饭。
They have their layouts, but we can only see a thread; unlike what we see, we can only see front-line doctors coming to work in plastic bags, unable to get enough sleep to eat.
"我们不太愿意被别人牵着，推波助澜变成一个被人利用的公益平台"\ 泰阁，「湖北医疗物资需求信息平台」，项目经理/志愿者\小程序「湖北医疗物资需求信息平台」于 25 日上午 10 点 36 分上线，分医院需求、车辆资源两大类，集合医院的社会求助和民间物流信息。
Rarely willing to be dragged into a public interest platform & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
目前已经登记 600多家医院和卫生院，正在更新 4.0版本。
More than 600 hospitals and clinics have been registered and version 4.0 is being updated.
【2】（1 月 24 日），我们看到很多医生、护士缺物资，可能没有防护就在一线护理。
2007-9-24 15: 27 [hide] We saw a lot of doctors and nurses lacking supplies, perhaps without protection on the first line of care.
当天是武汉市内很多医院物资告急，然后大家没有一个平台可以了解，到底是哪一些医院，缺什么东西，缺多少，我们就希望把这些公示给大家，把需求最迫切的这些排序到最前面，让大家能看到。
It is a day when many hospitals in Wuhan are in urgent need of supplies, and then we do not have a platform to understand which hospitals, what is missing, how much is missing, we hope to put these public, the most urgent needs of these to the forefront, so that everyone can see.
疫情到后面已经明显就非常严重了，但是当天可能还有很多人在看春晚，大家可能都还没有关注到这个事情。
The epidemic is clearly very serious in the back, but there may be many people watching the gala on that day, and no one may have been aware of it.
我们就想靠自己的力量，商量一下是不是能做点什么，我们之前也不知道能做什么。
We wanted to talk about what we could do on our own, and we didn't know what we could do before.
本身我自己也是互联网公司的项目经理，所以负责整个（物资对接）平台研发的项目经理，我们研发是二十几个人。
I myself am also the project manager of the Internet company, so I am in charge of the project manager of the whole platform.
之前大家都自发地去开发前端后台，有点混乱。
Before we all spontaneously to develop the front end of the background, a bit chaotic.
我一看，一些需求都没有对接清楚。
At a glance, some of the requirements are not clearly docked.
我就做了个计划，把团队整合了一下，从计划到上线发布。
I made a plan to integrate the team and release it from plan to go live.
（目前）我们还要对接到后台的信息录入，前端也出了两个窗口，可以开放给医院和车队，他们自己去登记，然后我们做审核。
We also need to get the backstage information input, front-end also out of two windows, can be open to hospitals and convoys, they register themselves, and then we do the audit.
（整个团队）就从一开始几个人，加到现在数百个人的大群。
From the beginning there were a few people, and now there are hundreds of people in large groups.
有负责核实医院的，还有负责信息录入的，还有负责物资对接、医院方需求梳理、物资跟踪的。
There are responsible for the verification of hospitals, also responsible for information entry, also responsible for material docking, hospital needs carding, material tracking.
后来有一些人发现（接收的物资）不符合标准，我们就又请了一些医生和志愿者来帮我们验货。
Then some people discovered that the goods were not up to standard, so we hired some more doctors and volunteers to help us inspect the goods.
（平台现在的信息）是需要审核的，因为（发布至今）已经有三四天了，前期队伍可能还比较纯洁，后来发现做大了后，可能会有一些不太纯粹的东西在里面。
[Platform information now] needs to be reviewed, because it has been three or four days since [publication], the previous team may still be relatively pure, and later it was found that after the big, there may be something less pure in it.
会有一些冒充医生，劫走物资的情况。
There will be cases of people pretending to be doctors, hijacking supplies.
现在各大平台上面都发布了医院公告，然后上面有联系人（信息），（有人）可能会改成他自己。
Now all the major platforms have a hospital bulletin, and then there are contacts on it, which may be changed to himself.
（物资对接上了）就把货给拿走了。
The goods were taken away (with the goods attached).
此外，还有一些车辆信息可能不对，耽误大家事儿，所以我们会提前核准，核准了之后再给他审批通过这样子，我们现在截止到今天（28日）是上了 3.0 版本，也就是相当于我们每天晚上都会上线一个版本。
In addition, there may be some incorrect vehicle information, delay everyone, so we will pre-approve, approve, and then give him approval. By this way, we are now on version 3.0 today (the 28th), which is equivalent to one version going online every night.
第一天晚上，我们研发是搞了通宵，很累。
On the first night, we worked all night, very tired.
第二天的话，我会把这边计划整合了一下，大概 12 点半左右就能上线。
The next day, I'll put my plan together and put it on line around 12: 30.
我们现在做的是敏捷迭代开发，会快速收集需求，快速做研发，然后上线。
What we're doing is Agile iterative development that collects requirements quickly, does R & D quickly, and goes live.
因为现在这个平台的时效性很强，如果我们磨磨唧唧的话，可能就用处不太大了。
Because this platform is very time-efficient, if we grind chirp, it may not be very useful.
（研发）过程中很多团队都给予了我们帮助。
A lot of teams helped us in the process.
我们自己研发的时候缺少一个临时搭建的工具，就有 worktile 给了我们，免费一年的时间。
We didn't have a makeshift tool when we developed it, so we had a workfile for a year for free.
上线以后，还有包括腾讯新闻，南都周刊，还有很多微博大 V，两三百万粉丝的那种，都愿意把平台上线宣传出去。
After the launch, there will also be Tencent News, Nantou Weekly, and many micro-VIPs, two or three million fans of the kind that are willing to promote the platform online.
转发了之后，就很多人可能通过这些信息知道了一些情况。
After forwarding this information, many people may know something about it.
大概在昨天前天（26 日、27日），武汉市内很多医院的资源就已经解决了，现在武汉市内其实是没有那么紧缺的，紧缺的是二线城市、武汉周边的一些地方。
About the day before yesterday (26th, 27th), the resources of many hospitals in Wuhan have been solved, but now Wuhan city is not so scarce, the shortage is the second-line cities, Wuhan around some places.
物资需求的来源，第一步就是根据官方网站去核准，确保一个真实性。
The first step in sourcing a material need is to verify it against an official website to ensure authenticity.
可能有一些县级医院来不及公告，没有一个官方对外渠道，可能他们也完全不了解互联网，甚至都不会修图。
Some county hospitals may not have enough time to announce them, there is no official external channel, and they may not know the Internet at all, or even repair maps.
这样的话，我们就会，让他们打印一个物资需求表，盖上他们医院的公章。
In that case, we'd ask them to print out a material request form and cover it with the official seal of their hospital.
还有一种方式就是我们会核准他们下面的医生，接受医生的身份证和工作证这些信息，核准了之后我们就发出来。
Another way is for us to approve the doctor below and accept the information in the doctor's ID and work permit, and then we send it out.
我们大概有四个大组在做信息搜集和核准。
We have about four large groups that do information gathering and approval.
包括，武大校友会和华科校友会以及北清的大学老师也都参与到这个这个信息收集里面。
Alumni associations and alumni associations, as well as university teachers from the Northern Qing Dynasty, are also involved in this information collection.
核实的工作量非常大，差不多每个志愿者一天可能差不多也只能核实十来个医院。
The verified workload is so great that almost every volunteer may be able to verify almost a dozen hospitals a day.
信息收集完成之后，我们会排序。
Once the information is collected, we sort it out.
比如非常紧急的需求来了之后，我们会把它排序到前面，这样点击率就会高一点，关注度就会更多一些。
When a very urgent need comes along, for example, we sort it out front, so the click rate will be higher and attention will be greater.
优先级的排序的话，因为武汉有很多志愿者，政府这一边的红十字会、湖北省慈善总会，会优先有限供应武汉。
The order of priority, because Wuhan has many volunteers, the government side of the Red Cross, Hubei charity will give priority to the limited supply of Wuhan.
所以，目前非常紧缺的话可能就是周边。
So, if there's a real shortage right now, it's probably the perimeter.
优先定点医院，然后如果在满足定点医院的前提下，还有富余的，就满足那种发热接诊病人比较多的这种医院。
Priority is given to hospitals, and then, if there is surplus in the case of designated hospitals, this type of hospital, which has a high number of fever admissions, is satisfied.
我们还了解一些医院科室的人员配备，也会根据这个调整优先级。
We also know about the staffing of some hospital departments and will adjust priorities accordingly.
我们（这个平台）宣传出去了之后，发现就会有一些假信息在里面，所以我们今天（28号）晚上就临时紧急下线了，准备核准了之后再上线。
We (the platform) after publicity, found that there will be some false information in the inside, so we (28) on the emergency line tonight, ready to approve after the line.
下线之后，有一些县级医院的工作人员，跑来问怎么医院突然下线了。
After the line down, there are some county hospital staff, came to ask how the hospital suddenly off the line.
因为平台不在了之后，就没有人再去对接到给他们医院捐赠了，所以可能最开始感觉不到这个平台好像有多么有用，后来出现今天这个紧急事情之后，我发现如果这些医院就是被下线了之后，还是对他们影响非常大的，目前我们已经有三个更新迭代的版本，第一代版本很多都是武汉市内定点大医院，后来发现他们捐满了之后，我们就会把它放下来。
After the platform was gone, no one would donate to the hospital, so I probably didn't realize how useful the platform seemed at first. After today's emergency, I found that if these hospitals were taken off the line, we had three versions of the latest iteration, many of which were major hospitals in Wuhan.
第二个迭代版本上面，到今天大概是有四五百家，后面还有更多核实的。
On the second iteration, there are about four or five hundred today, with more to come.
（做）第一个版本的时候，当时可能只想到医院的需求。
In the first version, one might have thought only of the needs of the hospital.
第二天，我们发现志愿者能找到医院对接，但物流信息特别困难，找不到车队给他们送进去。
The next day, we found that the volunteers were able to find the hospital docking, but the logistics information was particularly difficult to find the convoy to send them in.
然后我们赶紧又讨论需求，然后这个车辆信息也必须要登记上去，否则的话找不到车送，货也无法到达医院，所以我们第二版本就把车队也算上去了，我们也有一个车队的信息交流核准群。
Then we hasten to discuss the requirements, and then this vehicle information must also be registered, otherwise no delivery can be found and no cargo can reach the hospital, so our second version counts the fleet, and we have an information exchange authorization group for our fleet.
之前这个平台上线第二天被黑客攻击过一次，就是恶意被篡改了域名。
The platform was hacked once the next day and was maliciously tampered with.
我们害怕有一些人拿去利用，把里面的信息数据都黑掉了。
We were afraid that some people would take advantage of it and blacken all the information in it.
我们又做了后台安全防护，所以才会有这样一个（写着“官方认证”）的公告出来，但这个并不是和政府方面的合作。
We did back-office security, so there was a (officially certified) announcement, but it wasn't a collaboration with the government.
我们这个团队是保持中立的，在现在这个时间，我们就像做一些有用的事情，能够帮到大家就可以了。
Our team is neutral, at this point in time, we like to do something useful, can help everyone.
我们不太愿意被别人牵着，就是被推波助澜变成一个被人利用的公益平台，也不叫公益，也就是说我们自己宗旨就是把我们核准到的医院和车辆的这样的一些信息公布出来，寻求一些媒体或者是微博到位要这样的宣传出去之后，大家都知道了这个事能够利用到这个平台上面的信息，自己可以不管是捐赠方或者市医院需求方，他们可以完成他们就是，比如说捐赠方能够安安心心的，能够联系到医院联系到车辆把他东西捐出去，医院能够解决他的这些物资紧缺的需求，就这两件事情。
We don't want to be led, we're being turned into a pro bono platform, not a public good, that is, we're trying to publicize information about hospitals and vehicles we approve, and they can use the information on this platform to reach out to hospitals, for example, cars to donate his stuff, hospitals can meet his need for both.
我们自己必须要规范。
We have to regulate ourselves.
我们也要接受公众的公开信息化透明要求，然后还接受公众监督，这些事情我必须做好。
We also have to be open to public information and transparency, and then to public scrutiny, and that's what I have to do.
做这个平台一开始怎么没有考虑（会遇到这么多困难），因为毕竟也就三天时间。
Why didn't you consider doing this platform in the first place (it would be so difficult), because after all it would only take three days.
整个过程后续我也不知道会怎么样。
I don't know what's going to happen next.
我们可能会一直做到疫情差不多了要结束了的时候，应该是现在是帮大家，如果说，所有的这些情况都有所缓解了的话，那就是我们的使命也达到了。
We're probably going to be in a situation where the epidemic is almost over, it's time to help, and if all of this has eased, it's our mission.
（就这个平台上的信息来看，）武汉市内现在已经基本上没有太大的缺口，七七八八都缓解了。
As far as the information on this platform is concerned, there is not much gap in Wuhan, and all seven or eight have been alleviated.
目前有一些特别紧急需求医院会跟我们沟通。
There are a number of particularly urgent needs hospitals will communicate with us.
另外即便是医院官方已经不再发了，但是科室的医护如果缺的话，也会自己发的。
In addition, even if the official hospital is no longer issued, but the medical section of the word, if not, will send their own.
但这种情况，目前我们看到也很少了。
But so far we have seen very little of this.
其他都是县级的缺口比较大，目前的一个工作重点就是重新核准核实的信息，后面可能会重点做县级医院，把优先级的需求放在县级医院这里。
The remaining ones are at the district level, where one of the priorities is to re-validate the verified information, and may later focus on district hospitals, where priority needs are placed.
我也有看到四川、重庆、广东，也出来了几个请求支援的信息。
I also saw Sichuan, Chongqing, Guangdong, also out of several requests for support information.
我们是准备一步一步的去做，也是一步一步的去迭代。
We are ready to do it step by step and step by step to iteration.
这个做完了之后，再看看全国方面的情况。
When this is done, take a look at the national situation.
具体还是要看疫情的进展。
It still depends on the progress of the epidemic.
大家有需要，然后我们能够发挥一些作用的话，我们也会去满足这个需要。
We need people, and then we can do something about it, and we can meet that need.
在没有做（这个平台）之前，感觉疫情爆发后，中央也没有人管，那时候我自己会有一些气愤。
Before I did, I felt a bit angry myself after the outbreak of the outbreak and the lack of central control.
但是后来我做了这个平台了之后，我就变得比较理性了，因为我这边会接收到一些来自于政府或者是媒体的信息，他们其实也有在做一些事情，只是说他们有自己的流程，有一些手续是非常繁琐的，他们没有办法越过国家规定去迅速决定。
But then I made this platform, I became more rational, because I will receive some information from the government or the media, they are actually doing something, just say they have their own procedures, some are very cumbersome, they can not cross the national regulations to decide quickly.
这个具体我不是很方便透露，就只是我自己的一个主观感受。
This specific I am not very convenient to disclose, just my own subjective feelings.
我们毕竟没有任何包袱在里面，可以迅速行动起来。
After all, we do not have any baggage inside, we can act quickly.
我这边的话就是对接到医院、志愿者、和民间的一些情况。
What I'm saying here is about receiving information from hospitals, volunteers, and civil society.
我发现大家还是需要信息对称一点。
I find that you still need information to be symmetrical.
大家可能会对政府更有信心，我自己也变得更理性了一些。
People may have more confidence in the government, and I have become more rational myself.
做这个事情，包括我自己也很开心。
It's fun to do this, including myself.
我自己上班都不会晚上搞到三四点钟在这里一直开发上线，整个人充满干劲。
I don't go to work on my own until 3 or 4 o'clock in the evening, and I'm full of drive.
相关链接：【1】中新网：应对新型肺炎疫情，中国红十字会累计接受捐赠款物3.4亿元：https://m.chinanews.com/wap/detail/zw/sh/2020/01-26/9070374.shtml【2】「湖北医疗物资需求信息平台」：https://onwh.51rry.com/——华盛顿大学的 Louis Kim 及其团队做过一个研究，量化模型显示，当媒体的报道量增加十倍，传染病的感染数将会减少 33.5％。
In response to the new pneumonia epidemic, the Chinese Red Cross has received a total of 340 million yuan in donations: https: / / m.chinanews.com / wap / detail / zw / sh / 2020 / 01-26 / 9070374.shtml.
面对疫情，公民除了配合和感动，还可以了解什么？我们是几个记者（前），临时组成一个报道小组，试图在当下提供一些关于新型冠状病毒传染病的新的视角。
In the face of the epidemic, what else can the citizens understand besides cooperating and moving? We are a few journalists (former), temporarily forming a reporting group to try to provide a new perspective on the new coronavirus infection.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
三名一线志愿者口述：红会、校友会、物资信息平台。
Three frontline volunteers dictated: Red Cross Society, Alumni Association, Material Information Platform.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "三名一线志愿者口述：红会、校友会、物资信息平台";。
var msg _ title = & quot; three front-line volunteers dictated: Red Cross, Alumni Association, and Materials Information Platform & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "三个来自不同组织的志愿者，他们看到了什么？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Three volunteers from different organizations, what did they see?;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
