我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情。
We are Wuhan city people, want to do something for this city.
吴美芬。
Wu Mei Fen.
云林街十七号                      。
17 Yunlin Street.
云林街十七号。
17 Yunlin Street.
这场战役 我们与你们同在。
We are with you in this battle.
1月23日，武汉市公共交通停运。
January 23, Wuhan City public transport suspended.
一些本地的私家车主决定为医务人员护航，免费接送他们上下班，并运送救援物资到各大医院。
Some local private car owners have decided to escort medical staff to and from work for free and deliver relief supplies to major hospitals.
34岁的车车便是其中一员。
The 34-year-old car is one of them.
文| 吴美芬从1月底开始，车车几乎跑遍了武汉每一个医院，为医护人员送上民众捐赠的物资。
Wu Mei-fen has traveled almost every hospital in Wuhan since late January, delivering donated supplies to health-care workers.
2月6日，我联系上车车时，他说如果是匿名，可以接受采访。
On 6 February, when I contacted the bus, he said that if it was anonymous, he could be interviewed.
他认为自己做的事情不值得一提，也不想让家里人知道他正在做这件事，怕他们会担心。
He didn't think he was doing anything worth mentioning and didn't want his family to know he was doing it for fear they might worry.
以下是车车的自述：来自医生的提醒我是湖南人，在武汉创业，在这个城市生活了十几年，对它有非常深厚的感情。
The following is the self-description of the car: from the doctor reminded me that I was a Hunan, founded in Wuhan, living in this city for more than 10 years, it has very profound feelings.
1月中旬，家里几个人都发烧了，14日我去社区医院看医生，15日带小孩去协和医院儿科看。
In mid-January, several members of my family had a fever. On the 14th I went to the community hospital to see a doctor.
不管去哪家医院，医生一听说是发烧，都问最近去过华南海鲜市场没？车车的朋友圈当时医院看发烧的人已经很多，听肺声和验血排队很长。
Whichever hospital you went to, the doctor, hearing of the fever, asked if he had been to the South China Seafood Market recently.
医生是我的朋友，给我透露说平时要做好防护、戴口罩之类的。
The doctor is my friend, to disclose to me to want to do well normally, wear mask and so on.
他没有很明确地说是一件什么事，但确实提醒过我。
He didn't say exactly what it was, but he did remind me.
我没怎么看新闻，很多消息都是医生朋友告诉我的。
I don't read the news very much. A lot of the news is told by my doctor's friends.
大概1月23日左右，我就在考虑要不要带全家回到湖南老家去，但后来又决定全家留下来。
On or about January 23, I was wondering whether to take my family back to my hometown in Hunan, but decided to stay.
武汉已经是我的家了，不管我走到哪里，这里总让我惦记着，所以我们就没回老家。
Wuhan is my home, no matter where I go, there is always let me think of it, so we did not go home.
我和我的小伙伴们，在武汉做了很多年公益。
My friends and I have been doing voluntary work in Wuhan for many years.
去年武汉暴雨洪涝时，马路被淹掉，很多车过不去，我们车队自发组织去救援，为一些小学送吃的，还去白沙洲的大学城，把困在里面的大学生一波一波地运出来。
Last year, when the rain and floods in Wuhan, the road was flooded, many cars can not pass, our motorcade spontaneously organized to help some of the primary schools, but also to the University City of Peshawar, trapped in the waves out of college students.
我们很愿意为这个城市去做一些事情。
We would love to do something for the city.
1月底，有几个朋友跟我讲医院的物资非常紧缺，我们就想着出点力，筹集点资金购买口罩、防护服等医疗物资捐给医院。
At the end of January, a few friends told me that the hospital was in dire need of supplies, so we thought of raising some money to buy masks, protective clothing and other medical supplies to donate to the hospital.
我们负责运送物资到医院，武汉这么多家医院，包括协和、红十字会、省人民、中南医院等，几乎每一个都走过了。
We are responsible for the delivery of supplies to the hospital, Wuhan so many hospitals, including Concorde, Red Cross, provincial people, Zhongnan Hospital, almost every one has gone through.
2日3日，我送物资到红十字会医院。
On 3 February, I delivered supplies to the Red Cross hospital.
此时，医院门口已经被围栏围起来，进不去。
At this point, the entrance to the hospital has been fenced off, unable to enter.
我只好给接收物资的医生打电话，电话通了没人接，我想他可能在抢救病人，没敢继续打。
I had to call the doctor who had received the supplies. No one answered. I thought he might be saving the patient.
后来，在门口看到有个医生走过，就喊住他。
At last, seeing a doctor pass by, he stopped him.
他当时也是比较急，回应的语气特别急。
He was also more urgent, the tone of the response particularly urgent.
我跟他说明来意，把物资给了他。
I explained my intentions to him and gave him the supplies.
他跟我说，绝对不会弄丢，一定会交到我联系的那个医生手里。
He told me that he would never lose it, and that it would be in the hands of the doctor I had contacted.
我跟他说，这些物资就是给你们白衣天使的，不管最后到了谁手里，不重要，只要发挥了该有的作用，我就觉得很好。
I told him that this stuff was for you angels in white, and no matter who it ended up in, it didn't matter. I felt good about it as long as it worked.
那时很多大医院都在发物资紧缺的求助公告，社会都看得到他们的信息，都在关注他们。
At that time, many major hospitals are in the material shortage of help notices, society can see their information, are concerned about them.
但还是有一些小医院根本没有人关注。
But there are still small hospitals that go unnoticed.
“我情绪崩溃了，蹲在路边哭了好久”2月4日，我去了一个很小的医院，叫做普仁医院，这家医院也有很多人在看病。
"I collapsed and sat down by the side of the road crying for a long time." Feb. 4, I went to a very small hospital, called Puren Hospital, which also had a lot of patients.
我给联系的医生打了电话后在门口等。
I called the doctor I contacted and waited at the door.
等了10分钟，医生下来了，我看到他身上并没有穿医生该穿的防护服，脸上没有口罩。
After waiting for 10 minutes, the doctor came down. I saw that he wasn't wearing the doctor's suit and that he had no face mask.
我没有去问他原因，但是我觉得他应该不是不想穿，可能是不够或没有。
I did not ask him the reason, but I think he should not want to wear, may not be enough or not.
我怕耽误他的时间，所以没跟他确认这件事情，直接把东西交给他。
I was afraid of delaying him, so I didn't confirm the matter with him, so I gave him something directly.
他接过后，给我鞠了个躬。
He took it and bowed to me.
这一下，让我很难接受，我的情绪崩溃了，蹲在路边哭了好久。
This time, let me very difficult to accept, my mood collapsed, squatting on the roadside for a long time to cry.
车车的朋友圈一线医护人员在这么辛苦的情况下，他还感谢我。
He also thanked me for the hard work of front-line health care workers in the car's circle of friends.
后来他加我的微信，还不断地给我说谢谢。
Later, he added my message and kept saying thank you to me.
其实应该是我们感谢他。
We owe him a debt of gratitude.
2月2日，我去协和医院送物资，物资科的一个医生跟我说，现在政府要求他们增开700个床位，但最后只开200张。
On 2 February, I went to Concorde Hospital to deliver supplies, and a doctor from the Materials Department told me that the Government was now asking them to open 700 additional beds, but only 200 had been opened.
他说：“我也很想开700张，但真的是开不了，物资不够，不能让我的医生和护士裸着上去给病人看病”。
"I'd like to open 700, too, but it really isn't going to work and there's not enough supplies for my doctors and nurses to go up naked and see the patients," he said.
我们是在协和西院碰的面，他带着几个医生下来取物资，我看到这几个医生戴的都是普通医用口罩，没有穿防护服。
We met in the Western Concorde courtyard. He came down with a few doctors to collect supplies. I saw that the doctors were wearing ordinary medical masks and were not wearing protective clothing.
去医院时，我都是穿着一整套的防护服，把自己包得严严实实的，那些医生看着我，投来的都是那种羡慕的眼光。
When I went to the hospital, I was wrapped up in a suit of protective clothing, and the doctors looked at me with that envious look.
我还戴着护目镜，他们连护目镜都没有。
I still wear goggles. They don't even have goggles.
我呼吁社会，尽量把N95口罩给一线医护人员。
I appeal to the community to give the N95 mask to frontline medical staff as much as possible.
我知道很多人需要被救助，但这些医生现在才是最可怜的。
I know a lot of people need help, but these doctors are the poorest.
医生在最前线救助病人，工作完了还回家，有些医生的家人也被感染了。
Doctors help patients on the front lines, return home after work, and some of the doctors' families are infected.
就好像，我去医院送物资，很注意做防护，这也是为了保护我的家人。
It's like, I went to the hospital to deliver supplies, I took care of the protection, and it was to protect my family.
1月31日，车车送消毒水到江汉区社区医院1月29日，我在汉口医院和新华医院，看到很多医护人员穿着厚厚的三层防护服，戴着三层手套和隔离面罩，不停地走动给病人打针和护理，工作强度很大。
At Hankou Hospital and Xinhua Hospital on January 29, I saw many medical workers in thick three-storey protective clothing, three-storey gloves and face masks, constantly walking around giving patients injections and nursing care.
住得太远的医生回不了家，医院就给他们安排宿舍或者酒店，像三医院、省人民医院等。
When doctors who live too far away cannot go home, the hospital arranges dormitories or hotels for them, such as three hospitals and provincial people's hospitals.
也有很多医生和护士选择暂时不回去休息，身体扛不住了，就直接穿着防护服轮流去休息半个小时。
There are also many doctors and nurses choose not to go back to rest, the body can not carry, directly wearing protective clothing to take turns to rest half an hour.
什么都不脱，因为防护服脱了就受污染了。
Don't take it off, 'cause it's contaminated when you take it off.
为了节约防护服，他们休息时直接穿着坐在椅子上睡觉，有的还躺在地板上，睡半个小时，继续投入工作。
To save on protective clothing, they sleep directly in their chairs while at rest, while others lie on the floor, sleeping for half an hour and continuing to work.
这在医院都是很正常的状态，一种很真诚为患者的状态，蛮感动的。
This is in the hospital is very normal state, a very sincere for the state of the patient, quite moved.
1月底，武汉医院里医生穿着防护服休息我也试过防护服穿一整天不脱，不吃不喝不上厕所，真的很难受。
At the end of January, Wuhan Hospital, doctors in protective clothing rest I have also tried protective clothing throughout the day, do not eat not to drink toilet, really miserable.
防护服一点都不透气，护目镜不管用口水还是洗手液来擦，戴久了都会有雾气，看不清楚。
Protective clothing is not at all airtight, goggles with either saliva or hand sanitizer to wipe, wear a long time will be misty, not clear.
N95口罩我戴两个小时，就觉得受不了，缺氧头晕。
N95 mask I wear for two hours, I feel intolerable, lack of oxygen and dizziness.
医生都是戴4、5个小时或者一整天。
Doctors wear them for four or five hours or a whole day.
大年初二，我去三医院给一个医生朋友送点吃和喝的东西。
On the second day of New Year, I went to three hospitals to give a doctor friend something to eat and drink.
他已经连续工作了大概十几个小时。
He has been working continuously for about ten hours.
他看到我送来物资，感动得眼泪都出来了。
He was moved to tears when he saw what I had sent him.
他是我的朋友，我们经常一起吃饭，平时他是个很坚强的人，很少掉眼泪。
He is my friend, we often eat together, usually he is a very strong person, rarely shed tears.
他看起来很憔悴，我们没有聊很多。
He looked haggard and we didn't talk much.
我也不敢耽误他的时间，送完物资就走。
I did not dare to delay his time; I left as soon as I had finished the delivery.
生命很重要，每个病床上都有患者，可能我们在聊的过程中，就会有一两个人去世了。
Life is important. There are patients in every hospital bed. Maybe one or two of us will die while we are talking.
我们也不会要收据、发票之类的。
We don't ask for receipts, invoices or anything like that.
我们是个人捐赠行为，愿意出镜的医生，就拍个照对捐赠人有个交代就行。
We are individual donation behavior, willing to appear in the doctor, just take a picture to the donor.
只要能证明物资是医生拿走了，不愿意露脸也没关系。
It doesn't matter if you can prove that the doctor took the supplies.
车车送物资给普爱医院和湖北省第一医院不能让家人知道我在做志愿这几天在武汉城内奔走，路上的车比以往都少，看到的几乎都是志愿者的车，以前一个热热闹闹的城市，现在特别安静，让人觉得心酸，好像做梦一样。
In the past few days, there have been fewer cars on the road than ever before. Almost all of them were cars of volunteers. What used to be a busy city is so quiet that it makes people feel sad and dreamy.
城市别的地方，我们没有过多去关注，就是一心想着快，快快分装，快快装车，快快送到医院，能多跑一家医院，就能多帮到一些医生。
Elsewhere in the city, we have not paid much attention to it, but we are intent on quick, quick packing, quick delivery to the hospital, and an extra hospital to help some more doctors.
我不敢让家里人知道我在做这件事情，他们会疯掉的。
I dare not let my family know that I am doing it. They will go mad.
需要送物资时，我就找借口说出去买菜或者到地下车库运动一下，毕竟现在的菜不太好买，有时候要买药，很多药店也没开门，所以时间长点，家人也没有怀疑什么。
When I need supplies, I make excuses to go out and buy food or exercise in an underground garage. After all, the food is not very good to buy nowadays, sometimes it is necessary to buy medicine, many pharmacies do not open, so the time is long, family members do not doubt anything.
送完物资马上回家。
Send supplies home right away.
如果说我还没结婚，没小孩，父母又没在身边的话，我可能也像我朋友一样早出晚归送医生上下班。
If I'm not married, have no kids, and my parents aren't around, I might as well be out late to work as my friends.
这些日子我的家人都是隔离在家。
My family are all isolated at home these days.
他们很乐观，我有一个一岁的小孩，大家的心都在这个天真无邪的孩子身上，也不会无聊。
They are optimistic, I have a one-year-old child, everyone's heart on this innocent child, will not be bored.
别人称我们是志愿者，其实我们不喜欢这个称呼。
People call us volunteers, but we don't like the name.
我们就是这个城市的一份子，是武汉的一位市民。
We are a part of this city, is a citizen of Wuhan.
我们只是看到现状如此，想按照自己的想法和能力为现状做点事情，如果做不到，就响应国家的号召，待在家里。
We just see the situation as it is and want to do something about it according to our own ideas and abilities. If we can't do it, we respond to the call of the country and stay at home.
我们特别清楚自己在做什么，也知道怎么防护好自己。
We know exactly what we're doing and how to protect ourselves.
全副武装的车车我们不喜欢被称为志愿者，也是因为“志愿者”这个身份很容易受到道德绑架。
We don't like to be called a volunteer because the status of "volunteer" can easily be hijacked by morality.
我身边有几个朋友被媒体采访后，就感觉自己被道德绑架了。
Several friends around me felt morally kidnapped after being interviewed by the media.
因为别人会对你有期待，觉得你应该做什么事情。
Because people will expect of you what you should do.
我们不喜欢也不愿意去接受别人的指点或安排来做事情。
We don't like or want to be told or arranged to do things.
我的一个朋友，每天接送医生上下班，被新闻媒体报道后，很多人来找他，希望可以帮忙。
A friend of mine, who shuttles doctors to and from work every day, has been approached by many in the news media, hoping to help.
有的是社区，希望帮忙接送患者；有的是患者家属，打电话希望帮助家里人住院。
Some were in the community, hoping to help with the transportation; others were family members calling to help their families stay in the hospital.
其实我朋友接送医生的过程，也不会跟医生交谈什么，怎么能帮得到患者住院呢。
In fact, my friend to pick up the doctor's process, will not talk with the doctor what, how to help patients in hospital.
还有一些负责撤侨的外国人找来，希望接送他们的侨胞，我们也拒绝了。
Some of the foreigners in charge of evacuating the overseas Chinese came looking for them, and we refused.
我们的能力很有限，在医生都接送不完的情况下，是不太可能去帮到其他人的。
Our abilities are limited, and we are unlikely to help others when doctors are unable to carry them out.
现在，我因为咽喉炎咳嗽，造成肋软骨炎，医生诊断可能是骨裂，打着绷带在家养伤没出去。
Now, I cough because of pharyngitis, cause costal cartilage inflammation, the doctor diagnoses possibly is the bone cleft, is in bandage recuperates the wound not to go out.
我跑了那么多家医院，也有感染的风险，正好在家隔离一段时。
I've been to so many hospitals, and I'm at risk of infection when I'm in quarantine for a while.
我内心是希望自己可以做更多的，已经有志愿者因为受感染去世了。
In my heart I wish I could do more. There are already volunteers who have died of infection.
我也想保护好自己的伙伴。
I want to protect my partner, too.
我们这些小伙伴都知道，选择做这个事是会有风险的，看到有的志愿者去世了，都感到很难受。
We all know that choosing to do this can be risky, and it hurts to see some of the volunteers die.
但越是这样，越要一起努力，早日让我们城市恢复往日的喧哗热闹。
But the more so, the more must work together, lets our city restore the old hubbub and bustle as early as possible.
当然，我们都会很注意安全，不仅做好防护，也尽量每天都按时吃饭，保证营养和抵抗力。
Of course, we will pay attention to safety, not only do a good job of protection, but also try to eat regularly every day to ensure nutrition and resistance.
现在，我的能力不行了，就退下来保护好自己，我也是有家庭的人，上有老下有小，要对他们负责。
Now that I am no longer capable, I step back and protect myself. I am also a person with a family, who is responsible to them.
这是我的真实想法。
That's what I really think.
（文中“车车”为化名）「相关文章」120急救车，生死时速里的患与医“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”我在监控里，看着武汉城里的爸爸和奶奶「征集活动」无论你是医护人员、患者，还是普通人都可以点击“阅读原文”和我们联系分享你与疫情的故事「联系我们」欢迎关心武汉疫情和“云林街十七号”的你扫码进群入读者群点击“阅读原文”，报名参与“故事征集”。
"We live in the same house, but we can't meet each other." I watched as your father and grandma "Call for information" in Wuhan city. I watched as your father and grandmother gathered in Wuhan.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情。
We are Wuhan city people, want to do something for this city.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "云林街十七号";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street;;
var msg_title = "我们是武汉市民，想为这个城市做点事情";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; We are from Wuhan, and want to do something with & quot; for this city.
var msg_desc = "快从辛酸的梦里醒来。
var msg _ desc = & quot; wake up from a bitter dream.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '120急救车，生死时速里的患与医',。
AT RATE & amp; DEFENSE & amp; P & amp; D & amp; P & amp; S & amp; A & amp; S; 120.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '“我们住在一个家，却无法一起见面”',。
"We used to live in the same house but couldn't meet" & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
title: '我在监控里，看着武汉城里的爸爸和奶奶',。
I was at home with my father and grandmother at Randall & amp; apos; in Wuhan.
subject_name: '云林街十七号',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & apos;
var title ="云林街十七号";。
var title = & quot; 17 Yunlin Street; & quot;
