疫情的第二条战线。
The second front of the epidemic.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月4日，浙江慈溪，一名青年志愿者通过视频电话开展义务心理咨询服务。
February 4, Zhejiang Cixi, a young volunteer through a video-phone counseling service.
徐昱/摄新华社CNML图片本文约4500字预计阅读时间12分钟作者王景烁耿学清尹海月编辑 张国新型冠状病毒不仅侵染肺部，它正在找机会进攻人们的心理——在那些匆匆迎战的心理热线中，可以找到很多这样的例证。
By Wang Jingshu, editor of Yin Hai-yue, the new coronavirus is not only infecting the lungs, it is looking for opportunities to attack people's psychology.
除夕到大年初二，北京师范大学学生心理咨询与服务中心副教授宋振韶在办公室电话前守了3天。
From New Year's Eve to New Year's Day, Song Zhenshao, associate professor of student counseling and service center at Beijing Normal University, guarded the office telephone for three days.
他是学校“雪绒花学生心理帮助热线”负责人，新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情发生后，这条开了30多年的热线，临时决定为家在武汉的北师大学生提供心理支持。
He is the school "edelweiss student psychological help line," after the outbreak of new coronavirus infection pneumonia, the 30-year-old hotline, temporary home in Wuhan to provide psychological support for students.
出乎意料，打来电话的不仅有学生，还有湖北、辽宁、河北等地的社会求助者。
Unexpectedly, not only students, but also Hubei, Liaoning, Hebei and other places called social assistance.
“现在不能听家人咳嗽，一听我就心慌气短，呼吸困难，怎么办？”一位求助者问。
"Can't listen to family coughing now, a listen to my heart short, breathing difficulties, how to do?" asked a client.
1月27日，基于“雪绒花”的反响，北师大心理学部开通了面向公众的热线“4001888976”，邀请国内150多位心理咨询师同时在线接听。
On January 27, in response to edelweiss, the psychology department of Beijing Normal University opened a hotline to the public, 400 1888976, inviting more than 150 counsellors to answer online at the same time.
北师大心理学部党委书记乔志宏介绍，热线开通以来，每天的咨询电话在200个左右。
The Beijing Normal University psychology department party secretary Qiao Zhihong introduced, the hotline opened, every day in the 200 or so advisory telephone.
31个省份启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应后，2月2日，国务院应对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情联防联控机制印发通知，要求各地设立应对疫情心理援助热线，目标之一是防范心理压力引发的极端事件。
On February 2, the State Council issued a notice to the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism for Pneumonia, a new type of coronavirus infection, requesting all localities to set up hotlines to respond to the epidemic, one of the objectives of which is to prevent extreme events caused by psychological stress.
国家卫健委还下发了《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情紧急心理危机干预指导原则》。
The State Fitness and Health Commission has also issued the Guidelines for Emergency Psychological Crisis Intervention for the Novel Coronavirus Infection.
武汉大学心理健康教育中心主任赖海雄，担任了湖北省心理支持热线“4007027520”的专家服务队队长。
Wu Han University mental health education center director Lai Haixiong, served as the Hubei Province psychological support hotline "4007027520" expert service team leader.
他总结，来电主要集中在三方面：因疫情出现了紧张、焦虑情绪；因疫情造成生活不便，情绪难以排解；或者求助者本身存在心理问题，被疫情再度激发。
He concluded that the calls focused on three main areas: tension and anxiety due to the outbreak; difficulties in coping with emotional distress due to the outbreak; or psychological problems among the sufferers themselves, who were re-ignited by the outbreak.
心理咨询师们处理的极端情况包括：一位看过精神科患者的焦虑被唤起，患者开始发抖，失眠；一位妈妈在电话里语气急促，她患有轻度抑郁症的儿子从2楼跳下，并且，骨折后也坚决不去医院。
Extreme cases handled by counselors included a psychiatrist whose anxiety was aroused and the patient began to tremble and lose sleep; a mother who spoke on the phone in a hurry; her son, who had mild depression, jumped off the second floor and refused to go to the hospital with a broken bone.
非正常时期，恐慌其实是正常的“病毒可以被物理隔离，但恐慌情绪不会。
In abnormal times, panic is actually normal "the virus can be physically isolated, but panic does not."
”上海青春在线青少年公共服务中心（上海12355）资深顾问宋娅茹说。
Song Ru, senior consultant at Shanghai Youth Online Public Service Center for Youth (Shanghai 12355), said.
她认为，恐慌透过手机、电脑屏幕，比病毒更快地穿透人心。
Panics, she believes, penetrate more quickly than viruses through mobile phones and computer screens.
如果因为关注疫情导致负面情绪加重无法排解、出现恐慌心理等情况超过一周以上，就需要及时获得心理干预，以缓解压力，降低负面情绪。
If the situation is more than one week long due to concern about the exacerbation of negative emotions, panic, etc., timely psychological intervention is required to relieve stress and reduce negative emotions.
2008年汶川地震后，宋娅茹曾为部分被送到上海的震区青少年开展心理干预。
After the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, Song Ru had been part of the earthquake sent to Shanghai adolescents to carry out psychological intervention.
她认为，与地震这种突发性自然灾害不同，疫情从出现、蔓延到被控制，有一个持续的过程。
Unlike a sudden-onset natural disaster like an earthquake, she believes that there is an ongoing process by which the outbreak emerges and spreads under control.
“这一次疫情出现之后，呈现的是全民焦虑、全民恐慌。
"In the wake of this outbreak, there is national anxiety and panic.
”湖北省宜昌市幸福家心理服务中心心理咨询师黄庆武说。
Huang Qingwu, a psychologist at the Happy Family Psychological Service Center in Yichang City, Hubei Province.
疫情暴发前，黄庆武和同事组织了一次青少年冬令营，其中一位小学生活泼好动，当上了营里的体育委员，可疫情到来后，他开始乱发脾气。
Before the outbreak, Huang and his colleagues organized a winter camp for teenagers. One of the school children was active and became a sports commissioner in the camp.
家人开玩笑端起他的杯子要喝水，他会大哭，摔门而出。
The family joked that he had to drink from his cup. He would cry and break the door.
戴不戴口罩，也可能引发家庭危机。
Wearing a mask can also cause a family crisis.
宋娅茹对记者举了一个案例：一位年轻女士对心理咨询师说“我杀了他们再自杀”，起因出奇简单：劝父母戴口罩未果。
Sonia Ru points to a case where a young woman told a counselor "I killed them before committing suicide" for a surprisingly simple reason: persuading parents to wear masks failed.
当父亲说“戴啥口罩，我一辈子都没戴过口罩”时，她情绪失控了。
When my father said, "Wearing a mask, I've never worn one all my life," she got out of control.
“严格来讲，针对疫情的心理援助热线不是平时我们所理解的心理咨询，更像是给受伤后的心灵的一个‘紧急包扎’，属于心理危机紧急处理。
"Strictly speaking, the psychological support hotline for the epidemic is not what we usually understand psychological counseling, but more like an 'emergency dressing' to the injured mind, a psychological crisis emergency treatment.
”湖北省心理支持热线专家团工作组组长之一、华中科技大学大学生发展研究与指导中心副主任雷光辉总结。
Lei Shining, one of the team leaders of the expert group on psychological support hotline in Hubei Province and vice-director of the Center for University Development Studies and Guidance, Huazhong University.
宋振韶也很清楚，心理热线的作用，是让人倾诉担忧，帮人化解恐惧，以更好的状态面对现实。
It was also clear to Sung that the role of the psychological hotline was to let people talk about their concerns, help people defuse fear, and face the reality in a better state.
不少人不允许亲人恐慌，不允许孩子害怕，反而制造了更多心理负担。
Many people do not allow family members to panic, do not allow children to fear, but create more psychological burden.
一个男生有轻微的感冒症状，害怕自己被感染，家人劝他乐观，但就是积极不起来。
A boy has mild cold symptoms, afraid of being infected, his family advised him to be optimistic, but did not actively get up.
“有必要通过热线让公众知道，在这种非正常的时期，恐慌其实是非常正常的。
"There is a need to let the public know through the hotline that panic is really quite normal in these abnormal times.
”宋振韶说，重要的是，让公众能够接受恐慌，与恐慌“和解”，让心情平和下来。
What is important, says Mr Song, is for the public to accept the fear, "reconcile" with it and calm it down.
否则，“恐慌是疫情的助燃剂”，宋娅茹说。
Otherwise, "panic is the fuel for the outbreak," said Sonia Ru.
居家隔离带来的代际冲突不少求助者打心理热线，是因为“想聊聊天”。
The intergenerational conflict caused by segregation in the home many sufferers call the psychological hotline, because "want to chat."
宋振韶经手过的一次咨询，当事人刚参加完研究生招生考试，等待大学毕业的节点遇上了疫情，规划都被打乱，对未来的担忧瞬间加重。
One consultation, conducted by Sung Zhenshao, concerned that the students had just taken their postgraduate entrance examination and were waiting for their graduation from university had been hit by an epidemic.
他还记得，一位咨询者在家里与长辈朝夕相处，婆婆委婉地提出希望她和丈夫“要个孩子”，这引发了她的心理危机。
He also remembers the psychological crisis triggered by a counselor getting along with her elders at home and a mother-in-law tactfully demanding that she and her husband "have a child."
出于疫情防控需要，多数人闷在家里，减少外出。
Most people stay at home and spend less time away from home because of the epidemic.
在相对封闭的环境下，一些矛盾就此被激发。
In a relatively closed environment, some contradictions are aroused.
“总的来讲，由于隔离等原因，生活方式突然发生改变，对不确定的焦虑和担忧引起了人们的恐慌和情绪波动。
"Generally speaking, there has been a sudden change in lifestyle due to factors such as segregation, and anxiety and anxiety about uncertainty have caused panic and mood swings.
”宋振韶对记者说。
"Sung Zhenshao told reporters.
“应激状态下发生的冲突。
"Conflicts that occur under stress.
双方情绪失控，什么话难听就挑什么说。
Both sides are out of control and can pick and choose whatever words are difficult to hear.
”宋娅茹说。
"said Sonia Ru.
一个案例里，有小孩在家里待不住偏要出去玩儿，父母多次劝阻后失去耐心，简单粗暴地告诉孩子，“你出去就是送死，感染病毒回来还要害死我们，还不如撞车死了”。
In one case, there was a child at home to play, parents repeatedly discouraged impatience, simply told the child, "you go out is to die, the virus return to kill us, rather than crash dead."
得到的回应是：“那我现在就死！”上海青春在线青少年公共服务中心副总干事侯俊伟介绍，1月25日，共青团上海市委及上海12355组织开展了针对疫情的线上心理疏导志愿服务，志愿者处理的咨询，大多围绕疫情期间的代际冲突和亲子关系。
"I will die now," said Hou Junwei, deputy director-general of the Shanghai Youth Online Public Service Center. On January 25, the Shanghai Municipal Committee of the Communist Youth League and Shanghai 12355 launched an online counseling service for the epidemic.
哪些是疫情敏感人群宋娅茹认为，疫情之下的恐慌敏感人群一般为：年轻妈妈、家有老幼的中年群体以及从众效应者、恐惧症患者。
Sonia Ru, an epidemic-sensitive person, said panic-sensitive people in the context of the epidemic generally are: young mothers, middle-aged people with children and elderly families, as well as followers, phobias.
一位年轻妈妈高度关注有无儿童感染病毒的信息。
One young mother was highly concerned about information about the presence of the virus in children.
国内出现2岁儿童确诊病例后，她茶饭不思，不敢出门，将生活垃圾堆在门口，每天用大量盐水和酒精给自己和孩子反复擦洗身体，晚上还梦到“孩子被隔离抢救”。
After the diagnosis of a 2-year-old child in the country, she was too hungry to go out, left her household waste at the door, washed herself and her children repeatedly with large quantities of salt water and alcohol every day, and dreamed of "children being rescued in isolation" at night.
甚至，孩子的爷爷奶奶、外公外婆打来电话，她也不敢让孩子接听，理由是，“信号里（病毒）也会传染过来”。
Even if the child's grandparents and maternal grandmother called, she was afraid to let the child answer the phone, on the grounds that "the signal [virus] will also be transmitted."
接听热线的宋娅茹判断，这位年轻母亲因疫情产生了急性应激反应（ASD）。
Sonia Ru, who answered the hotline, judged that the young mother had developed an acute stress response (ASD) from the outbreak.
“噩梦、闪回、回避”，急性应激反应的三个特征，她都出现了。
"Nightmare, flashback, avoidance," three characteristics of acute stress, she appeared.
急性应激反应初期是“冲击期”，个体遭受外部刺激后，表现为一定程度的定向力障碍、注意力分散，突然“不知道自己怎么办了”。
Acute stress reaction is the initial "shock period," the individual suffered external stimulation, the performance of a certain degree of directional force disorder, distraction, suddenly "do not know what to do."
“她一会儿轻松、一会儿紧张；一会儿高兴，一会儿不高兴；在家里动不动训斥孩子，说这个不能动、那里不能过去。
"She's relaxed and nervous now and then, happy and unhappy, and at home she scolds her children for being immobile and unable to cross over.
”宋娅茹分析，出现以情绪不稳定为主要特征的反应，代表她进入急性应激反应第二个阶段“混乱期”。
"Song Ru analysis, the emergence of emotional instability as the main characteristics of the response, representing her acute stress response to the second phase of the" chaotic period.
宋娅茹说，72小时之内属于急性，如果不求助，没有得到及时干预，超过一个月以上就可能会转变成慢性的创伤后应激障碍（PTSD）。
Sonia Ru said that within 72 hours it was acute and could turn into chronic post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) without help and timely intervention for more than a month.
长期处于紧张和惊恐状态下，肾上腺素升高，人体内分泌系统、免疫系统会发生混乱，抵抗力下降，不利于身心健康。
In a state of chronic stress and panic, adrenaline rise, the human endocrine system, immune system will be chaotic, resistance to decline, not healthy physical and mental health.
“心理学上有一个词，人在焦虑恐慌的状态下，以感觉脑为主导会‘选择性消极关注’，”宋娅茹解释，“比如大喜的日子，会担心有什么会冲撞。
"There is a term in psychology in which a person, in a state of anxiety and panic, is guided by a sense of the brain as the 'selective negative attention'," Sonia Ru explains. "On a big day, for example, you worry about what might happen
在路上你到处去看，路上人很多，如果你发现有个人戴黑纱，就觉得不吉利，这个时候就是‘选择性消极关注’。
If you look around on the road and there are a lot of people on the road, if you find someone wearing black yarn, you feel unlucky, this is' selective negative attention '.
”1月31日深夜，中国科学院上海药物所发出“双黄连口服液可抑制新型冠状病毒”的消息后，宋娅茹预感到“双黄连”即将被抢购一空。
Late last night on January 31, after the Chinese Academy of Sciences Shanghai Medicine issued the news that Shuanghuanglian Oral Liquid can inhibit the new coronavirus, Songya Ru had a presentiment that Shuang Huanglian would soon be sold out.
果不其然。
Not at all.
她说，这是群体恐慌引起的“从众效应”，人们觉得不参与囤积物品，就会心理恐慌。
'This is a herd effect of panic, 'she said.' People feel panic if they don't take part in hoarding.
这次疫情以来，有些人的心理从一个极端走向另一个极端——“从掉以轻心到草木皆兵”。
Since the outbreak, some people have gone from one extreme to the other - "from the light to the grass."
公众在积极寻找纾解渠道1月29日至30日，雷光辉和同事张妍通过微信群对国内高校学生开展了一次问卷调查，收到19389份有效问卷。
The public is actively looking for relief channels. From January 29 to 30, Lei Guangming and his colleague Zhang Yan conducted a questionnaire among Chinese university students through a micro-mail group and received 19,389 valid questionnaires.
调查结果显示，有31.29%的学生认为此次疫情让自己非常困扰；23.13%的学生担心自己被感染以至于害怕到影响正常作息。
The results showed 31.29 percent of the students thought they were very disturbed by the outbreak and 23.13 percent were so afraid of getting infected that they were afraid to interfere with their normal work schedule.
有51.19%的学生在积极寻找排解压力的渠道。
51.19% of students are actively looking for ways to relieve stress.
浙江省杭州市淳安县妇幼保健院工作的吴飞，也是淳安县的心理咨询师，建了名为“心灵驿站”的微信服务群，二维码发出去后，一天内加入了170多人。
Wu Fei, who works in Chun An County Maternal and Child Health Center in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, is also a counselor in Chun'an County. He has set up a group of micro-mail service called "Psychic Post Stations."
一些便捷的咨询方式也快速上线。
Some easy-to-use consultations are also coming online quickly.
武志红心理工作室以旗下“看见心理”服务平台联合中国科协主办的“科普中国”平台等，共同发起抗击疫情的心理援助计划，搭建了一个互动专区。
Wu Zhihong psychological studio with the "see the psychology" service platform and China Science Association sponsored by the "popular science China" platform, jointly launched the psychological assistance plan to combat the epidemic, set up an interactive zone.
不少一线防疫工作者在上面排解压力：一位湖北县城的疾控工作者，时刻担心工作没做好，更担忧带同事去疫区会被感染，最怕的，还是感染给家人。
Many frontline epidemic prevention workers in the above relieving pressure: a disease control workers in Hubei county, always worried about not doing a good job, more worried to bring colleagues to the affected areas will be infected, the most afraid, or infected to their families.
湖北的另一位医务工作者，在医院出现确诊病例后，感到压力陡增。
Another medical worker in Hubei province has experienced a sharp rise in stress following a confirmed case in a hospital.
他对心理咨询师黄庆武说，身边的医护人员或多或少出现了类似情况。
He told Huang Qingwu, a counselor, that medical staff around him were more or less in a similar situation.
也有社区工作人员反映，同事出现了身体发抖的症状。
Community workers also reported symptoms of shaking in their bodies.
“这相当于，高强度的工作压力和对病情的恐惧、担心叠加在一起了。
"It's the equivalent of a high intensity of stress combined with fear and worry about the condition.
”黄庆武说。
"said Huang.
清华大学心理学系教授樊富珉带领团队，与北京幸福公益基金会共同在网上推出了“抗击疫情心理援助”公益系列培训课，不仅针对心理咨询师及志愿者，也对公众开放。
Fan Fumin, a professor in the Department of Psychology at Tsinghua University, and the Beijing Welfare Foundation have jointly launched a series of pro bono training courses on "Psychological Assistance to Combat the Epidemic," which are open not only to psychologists and volunteers, but also to the public.
2月2日开始后，她发现同时在线人数“增长得吓人”，一开始是2000人、3000人，几小时到了近万人，而预估最高是1000人。
Starting February 2, she found the online population "growing alarmingly," starting with 2,000 and 3,000, reaching nearly 10,000 in a matter of hours, compared with an estimated maximum of 1,000.
参加培训的，包括武汉一所高校心理系系主任带领的团队。
Participants included a team led by the head of the department of psychology at a university in Wuhan.
与2003年的非典型肺炎疫情不同，乔志宏认为，这次疫情的心理援助不再受固定电话限制，技术进步下，搭建的平台能够同时接待更多的求助者，心理援助相对更加有序。
Unlike the SARS outbreak in 2003, Choi believed that psychological assistance for the epidemic was no longer limited by fixed telephone lines and that, thanks to technological advances, the platform could accommodate more clients at the same time and psychological assistance was relatively more orderly.
“之前像是散开的点，现在形成了网和面。
"What used to be a point of divergence now forms a net and a surface.
”就算疫情解除，心理危机没那么快结束武汉的一对夫妇发烧了，体温37.8℃，到医院排了几小时队，忙碌的医生问诊结束，很快建议他们回家隔离。
Even if the outbreak is over, the psychological crisis is not over so quickly A couple in Wuhan, with a fever of 37.8 degrees Celsius, has been queuing up for hours at the hospital.
他们在外地无法回家的孩子打心理热线时泣不成声：“我怎么能眼看着父母死亡？我还不如自己先死！”“你爸妈只是轻度发热，没有其他症状，你就担心他们要死了。
"How could I have watched my parents die? I might as well have died myself first!" "Your parents had a mild fever, and without any other symptoms, you worried they were going to die.
如果告诉你，爸妈就是流感你还会那么紧张吗？”宋娅茹说，按照这个年轻人的想法推下去，“开了药不住院=不治疗=父母等死=自己先死”。
Would you be so nervous if I told you that your parents had the flu? "said Sonia Ru, following the young man's thought," Take the medicine out of the hospital = leave the parents untreated = die first. "
她说，在心理干预过程中，不是讲心理学道理，而是先共情他们的情绪反应，然后用具体的事实去纠正他们的认知偏误。
In the process of psychological intervention, she says, it's not about psychological reasoning, but empathy with their emotional reactions, and then using concrete facts to correct their cognitive biases.
对那位过度紧张的年轻妈妈，她用感染儿童痊愈的事实安慰对方。
To the over-stressed young mother, she comforted the other with the fact that the infected child was cured.
“如果总关注负面，就像画一个圆圈，越往里画越小，形成‘执念’，兜兜转转出不来了。
"If you focus on the negative, it's like drawing a circle. The smaller the picture, the smaller it becomes.
圆圈往外画就会越来越大。
It gets bigger and bigger when it goes out.
”宋娅茹劝那位年轻妈妈说，“其实，疫情期间也是难得的休息时间。
"Song Ru advised the young mother," In fact, the epidemic period is also a rare rest period.
”连续干预三次之后，这位妈妈稳定了情绪。
After intervening three times in a row, the mother calmed down.
在北师大，除了接听来电，宋振韶还担任督导的角色，为接线的咨询师提供支持。
In addition to answering calls, Sung played a supervisory role and provided support to the wiring consultant.
他班上的二三十名咨询师，每三个小时值班结束后可以提交一份自己遇到的难题，三分之一的咨询师都曾写下困惑。
Twenty or thirty consultants in his class submitted a list of their problems at the end of each three-hour shift.
有人在长时间接线过程中，产生了“替代性创伤”。
Some people in the long-term wiring process, produced a "replacement trauma."
北师大这条热线的单次通话时间上限设定是30分钟。
The upper limit for a single call on this hotline is 30 minutes.
实际上，不少人的接通时长都超出了设定。
In fact, a number of people have been connected for longer than the set.
还有一些来电超出了他们的服务范围，有的询问新冠肺炎医疗相关情况，有的出现了自杀、自伤、重度抑郁等危机，需要相关的干预热线介入。
There are also calls that go beyond their range of services, ranging from inquiries about medical conditions related to Newcrown Pneumonia to crises such as suicide, self-injury and severe depression that require intervention by the relevant intervention hotline.
一名商人的企业受疫情影响无法正常经营，没了收入，还不上贷款，在热线里倾诉，咨询师也很无力，解决这个问题超出了他们的能力。
A businessman whose business is affected by the epidemic is unable to operate normally, has no income, does not take out loans, talks on a hotline and has weak consultants, and it is beyond their capacity to solve the problem.
宋振韶认为，应激反应的变化是一条曲线：一开始是预警；短期内进入应对环节，要么战斗，直面问题尝试解决，要么逃避问题；更理解现状之后，应激水平慢慢下降；最后，恢复和重建内心的平衡。
According to Sung, the change in stress response is a curve: first, early warning; in the short term, either fighting, confronting the problem or trying to solve it, or evading it; after a better understanding of the situation, stress levels slowly decline; and finally, restoring and re-establishing inner balance.
“现在已经进入中后期了。
"We are now in the middle and late stages.
”他说。
'he said.
即使如此，宋振韶仍有担心。
Even so, Sung remained concerned.
他认为，目前的求助者主要是原本心理状态并不稳定的人群，以及受到疫情影响遇到实际困难的人，在疫情出现拐点或相对平稳后，人们更深层的心理需求可能会浮现。
In his view, the current clients are mainly people who are not in a stable psychological state, as well as those affected by the outbreak of real difficulties, after the emergence of the inflection point or relatively stable, people's deeper psychological needs may emerge.
雷光辉也认为，人们对疫情的认识是一个逐渐深入的过程，会经过长时间的精神冲击和体力透支，一些人可能患上急性应急障碍，也有些人可能患上创伤后应激障碍。
Leigh also believes that people's understanding of the epidemic is a gradual process, after a long period of mental shock and physical exhaustion, some people may suffer from acute emergency disorder, others may suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder.
即使将来疫情解除，心理防线仍然无法松懈。
Even if the disease is relieved in the future, the psychological defenses will not relax.
“我们设想的一些危机事件，可能会慢慢地暴露出来。
"Some of the crisis events we envision may come to light slowly.
”他说。
'he said.
记者采访到的多位参与心理援助热线的学者均表示，据粗略统计，目前抗击疫情一线医护人员的来电，占比不足10%。
According to rough statistics, less than 10 percent of the calls from frontline health care workers in the fight against the epidemic have been recorded, according to scholars interviewed by the reporter.
这些受访的心理学者还记得，2008年汶川地震后，过了一年，他们仍会接到相关来电。
Psychologists interviewed remember receiving calls a year after the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake.
（本文由中国青年报独立出品，首发在中国青年报客户端及头条号，加入树木计划。
(This article is produced independently by China Youth Daily. It is first published in China Youth Daily client and headline number.
）。
).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情的第二条战线。
The second front of the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情的第二条战线";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; second line of the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "“病毒可以被物理隔离，但恐慌情绪不会。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "The virus can be physically isolated, but panic isn't.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
