政府该如何公开疫情信息。
How the government should disclose information about the epidemic.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
法律学者指出，我国有关政府信息公开的法律规范和工作要求是明晰的，严格遵守就好，“但恰恰在这方面，前一段时间某些地方机关、工作人员的一系列错误做法广受诟病，后续工作中必须坚决纠正”。
Legal scholars pointed out that China's legal norms and work requirements for the disclosure of government information are clear and strictly abided by, "but it is precisely in this regard that a series of erroneous practices by some local authorities and staff members have been widely criticized in the recent past and must be resolutely rectified in the follow-up work."
各地政府的疫情信息公开关键要有需求导向，群众有需求，政府有回应，这才是好的政府治理。
The key to the disclosure of epidemic information by governments everywhere should be demand-oriented, people need and government responds, which is good governance.
2月6日，北京市人民政府新闻办公室举行第十二场新闻发布会，介绍北京市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作情况。
On February 6, the Press Office of the Beijing Municipal People's Government held the 12th press conference to introduce the prevention and control of pneumonia in the new coronavirus infection in Beijing.
新华社 任超 摄本文约2667字预计阅读时间7分钟中青报·中青网记者 刘芳 胡宁 耿学清　1月30日，深圳在广东省率先公布新冠肺炎病例患者逗留过的小区和场所。
Xinhua News Agency estimated reading time of 7 minutes Chinese Youth Daily Liu Fang Junqing January 30, Shenzhen in Guangdong Province to announce the first cases of New Crown Pneumonia where the community and sites.
截至2月5日24时，深圳已向公众公布了148个小区和场所。
As of 2400 hours on February 5, 148 neighborhoods and sites had been announced to the public in Shenzhen.
就在深圳公布信息后的第二天，广东中山、珠海、梅州陆续公布确诊病例患者发病期间的活动场所和小区。
Just the day after Shenzhen released the information, Guangdong Zhongshan, Zhuhai and Meizhou announced the activities of the patients during the period of diagnosis and small areas.
2月6日，北京市也首次发布了新发病例患者活动过的小区和场所。
February 6, Beijing also issued the first new cases of patients activities in the community and sites.
正如深圳市卫健委在首次公布时所说，深圳此举不仅是根据国家卫健委疾控局“以社区防控为主”、加强“群防群控”的通知精神，更是响应市民对公布确诊患者发病期间活动轨迹的强烈呼声。
As Shenzhen Health Commission said in the first release, Shenzhen's move is not only based on the "community-based prevention and control" of the National Board of Health Care and Prevention, strengthening the "crowd control," but also respond to the public's strong call for the publication of the track of activities during the diagnosis.
面对疫情，公众需要什么样的信息公开？疫情时期政府应依法公开哪些信息？如何处理公布涉疫个人信息保护和公众健康权、知情权之间的平衡？中青报·中青网记者就此采访了相关学者。
In the face of the epidemic, what information does the public need to make public? What information should the government disclose according to law during the epidemic period? How to balance the protection of personal information about epidemic diseases with the right to public health and the right to information?
疫情信息公开有法可依参与起草了《突发事件应对法》的中国人民大学法学院教授莫于川表示，2003年非典、2008年汶川大地震以来，我国已逐步健全了比较完整的应对突发事件的法律规范体系，从龙头性的《突发事件应对法》到《传染病防治法》《食品安全法》，再到《突发公共卫生事件应急条例》《政府信息公开条例》，这些法律法规规定的“公开透明原则”是一项低成本、高效率但又是基础性法治原则。
Since the SARS and Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, China has gradually improved a relatively complete legal and regulatory system to deal with emergencies, from the leading Emergency Response Law to the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases and the Regulations on Access to Government Information, which stipulate the principle of "open transparency" as a low-cost, efficient and basic rule of law.
“这也是当今世界公认的应急法治的一项基本原则”。
"This is also recognized in today's world as a basic principle of emergency rule of law."
莫于川说，我国有关政府信息公开的法律规范和工作要求是明晰的，严格遵守就好，“但恰恰在这方面，前一段时间某些地方机关、工作人员的一系列错误做法广受诟病，后续工作中必须坚决纠正”。
Mo said that China's laws and regulations on the disclosure of government information and work requirements are clear, strict compliance is good, "but precisely in this regard, some local authorities, staff members of a series of widely criticized wrong practices, the follow-up work must be resolutely corrected.
长期从事国家应急管理法治保障研究的中国政法大学应急法研究中心执行主任林鸿潮教授也表示，疫情初期，仅就谁有发布疫情信息的权力来说，《传染病防治法》规定，传染病暴发的发布权限由国家卫生部门授权省一级部门公布，并未授权给市级政府。
Professor Lin Hongchao, executive director of the Emergency Law Research Center of the Chinese University of Political Science and Law, who has long been engaged in the study of national emergency management, said that in the early stage of the epidemic, the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Law provided that the authority to issue infectious disease outbreaks was delegated to provincial authorities by the State health authorities and not to municipal governments.
但《突发事件应对法》同时规定，可以由县级以上（包括县级）政府发布相应级别警报，同时向上一级人民政府报告，必要时可以越级上报。
However, the Emergency Response Law also stipulates that the governments at or above the county level (including the county level) may issue corresponding alert levels and report to the people's government at the next higher level.
如何看待这两部法律相关规定之间的关系？林鸿潮说，《传染病防治法》是特别法，只适用于传染病等突发卫生事件，而《突发事件应对法》是一般法，适用所有类型的突发事件。
How to view the relationship between the two laws? The Infectious Diseases Act is a lex specialis and applies only to health emergencies such as infectious diseases, whereas the Emergency Response Act is the general law applicable to all types of emergencies.
根据特别法优于一般法、新法优于旧法的原则，《传染病防治法》2004年颁布，在2013年重新修订过，而《突发事件应对法》在2007年颁布后，至今没有修订过。
In accordance with the principle that special laws take precedence over ordinary laws and that new laws take precedence over old ones, the Communicable Diseases Act was enacted in 2004 and revised in 2013, while the Emergency Response Act has not been amended since its enactment in 2007.
所以从效力上说，《传染病防治法》效力优先。
Therefore, in terms of effectiveness, the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases prevails.
北京才良律师事务所律师王令认为，依照《传染病防治法》，武汉市当时确实不能公布疫情属于甲类传染病还是乙类传染病。
Wang Ling, a lawyer at Beijing Talent and Liang Law Firm, said Wuhan was unable to declare whether the outbreak was a Class A or a Class B infectious disease under the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Law.
但是，应当按照《突发事件应对法》针对突发的公共卫生事件，履行法定职责，启动应急预案，及时向社会公众发布警示信息，比如发布武汉市有多少人正因为一种不明的病毒而遭受侵害，并且提醒公众，这种侵害有可能具备传播性。
However, in accordance with the Law on Handling Public Emergencies, legal duties should be carried out in response to public health emergencies, emergency plans should be activated, warning information should be given to the public in a timely manner, such as announcing how many people in Wuhan city are being harmed by an unknown virus, and reminding the public that such violations may be contagious.
另一方面，在国务院还没有确定对新冠肺炎进行甲类传染病管理的情况下，武汉市还是可以把它作为乙类传染病进行防控的。
On the other hand, in the absence of a State Council decision on the management of Class A infectious diseases, Wuhan city can still treat it as a Class B infectious disease for control.
林鸿潮呼吁，目前迫切需要对《传染病防治法》再行修订。
Mr Lam called for urgent further amendments to the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act.
比如，地方已经发现某种病传染流行了，能不能用该法来先期处置？这在法律上并没有明文规定。
For example, the local authorities have found that a certain disease epidemic, whether the law can be used to deal with it first? This is not clearly stated in the law.
尤其是疫情暴发初期，要允许地方先发布前期信息，然后由国家卫生部门保留复核和纠正权，两者才能达到平衡。
In particular, in the early stages of an outbreak, a balance can be achieved by allowing the local authorities to release prior information and then retaining the right of review and correction by the national health authority.
“及时和准确有时不能兼得，但及时是第一位的。
"Timeliness and accuracy sometimes don't go hand in hand, but timeliness comes first.
”政府应依法公开哪些疫情信息中国社会科学院法学研究所副研究员吕艳滨告诉记者，面对不断发展的疫情及当前的防控形势，公众需要了解的内容更多，包括疫情的最新动态、防护常识，城市采取管控措施的细节、政策解读等。
Lu Yanbin, associate researcher at the Institute of Legal Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told reporters that the public needed to know more about the latest developments in the epidemic and the current situation, including the latest developments, precautions, details of city control measures and policy interpretations.
“比如防控疫情从二级响应升级到一级响应，对老百姓的生产生活会有哪些具体影响？暂停外埠汽车客运业务的目的和后续解决措施有哪些？疫情防控中，每个人的权利边界是什么？有哪些法律红线不能碰？”这些问题都需要专业的政策解读形式的信息公开。
"For example, the prevention and control of the epidemic from the secondary response to the first response, the people's production and life will have concrete impact? What are the objectives of the temporary suspension of passenger and bus services in the outport? What are the boundaries of everyone's rights in epidemic prevention and control?
事实上，除了这些“政府信息”，公众还想获得最权威、最新、最准确的疫情相关的“政府数据”。
Indeed, beyond this "government information," the public wants the most authoritative, up-to-date, accurate "government data" on the epidemic.
受访学者认为，除了国家卫健委要求公布的确诊、重症、疑似以及确诊病例发病时间、收治信息等基本情况外，各地对疫情信息公开的做法和程度有所差别。
In addition to the basic information such as the time of diagnosis, severe, suspected and confirmed cases and the information on treatment received, scholars interviewed believe that the practices and degree of disclosure of epidemic information vary from place to place.
这与当地疫情发展情况相关，也与各地政府的依法行政理念、治理能力相关。
This is related to the development of the local epidemic situation, but also with the local government's concept of administration by law, governance capacity.
天津市相关部门的信息公开就详尽到了确诊病例活动过的轨迹，如“在东平东区服务区买了烧鸡”“在长椅上休息（没住宿）”“在泥人张买了泥人”……一位天津网友说：“（这些消息）还在屏幕不停滚动，生怕你看不见。
Tianjin-related information has reached a level of information disclosure on the track of confirmed cases, such as "Buying roast chicken in Dongping East Service Area" "Rest on a bench (no accommodation)" "Buying clay figurines in Mudman Zhang..." A Tianjin netizen said.
”2月3日晚，“福尔摩斯式破解病毒传染迷局”冲上了微博热搜，这是天津市信息公开的缩影。
On the night of February 3, the "Holmes-style decryption virus infection puzzle" rushed into the Weibo fever, a microcosm of Tianjin's information disclosure.
这条热搜下的视频内容是2月2日天津疾控中心传染病预防控制室主任张颖在新闻发布会上对某百货大楼的5例确诊病例的分析。
Zhang Ying, director of the infectious disease prevention and control room at Tianjin CDC, analysed five confirmed cases at a department store during a news conference on February 2.
约10分钟内，张颖几乎完全脱稿梳理了5位患者在流行病学上的关联性，以及天津市如何追溯、构建5例确诊病例之间的关系。
Within about 10 minutes, Zhang almost entirely disentangled the epidemiological association among the five patients, and how Tianjin traced and constructed the association between the five confirmed cases.
2月6日，最新一期的“成都发布”也公布了全市97个确诊病例停留过的68个小区和场所。
On Feb. 6, the latest edition of the Chengdu launch also announced the city's 97 confirmed cases of the 68 residential areas and sites.
在吕艳滨看来，各地政府的疫情信息公开关键要有需求导向，群众需要什么就公开什么，而不是拘泥于固定的法律条文。
In the view of Anita Lu, the key to the disclosure of epidemic information by governments everywhere should be demand-driven, and the public should disclose what they need rather than cling to fixed legal provisions.
群众有需求，政府有回应，这才是好的政府治理。
Good governance depends on the needs of the masses and the responsiveness of the government.
“法律法规不可能事无巨细或者预想到未来可能发生的疫情，但管理者需要遵守法律的原则和保障群众合法权益的精神，从最大限度满足公众需求的角度去探索怎么公开更好。
"Laws and regulations cannot be exhaustive or anticipate possible future outbreaks, but regulators need to abide by the principles of law and the spirit of protecting the legitimate rights and interests of the masses to explore how disclosure can best meet the needs of the public.
”吕艳滨说。
'said Lui Yanbin.
公众健康权知情权和个人信息保护如何平衡1月30日晚，深圳市卫健委首次公布了31个确诊病例活动过的小区和场所，其中，南山区的德意名居在列，但具体的门牌号码、名字等信息，都被隐去了。
How to Balance Right to Information and Protection of Personal Information In the evening of January 30, the Shenzhen Municipal Health Commission announced for the first time 31 small districts and sites where activities had been carried out in confirmed cases.
“发布确诊病患确诊前的行动轨迹应该尽可能详细，有助于密切接触者自我观察、及时就医，有的地方还发布了确诊病例的感染路径分析，便于公众加强自我防护”，吕艳滨说，类似这种信息公开只要没有指名道姓、不能识别特定的人，就没有侵犯公民个人的隐私权，而且，尽到了善意提醒的作用，有助于寻找密切接触者和提示有关人员自我观察。
"Disseminating information on the path of action before a confirmed patient is diagnosed should be as detailed as possible, enabling close contacts to observe themselves and seek medical attention in a timely manner," said Lu. Such disclosure does not violate the privacy rights of individual citizens as long as there is no naming and identification of specific individuals.
林鸿潮则表示，发布这些信息的同时，只要不公布个人信息，看到这些信息的公众找不到这个人，就不会对个人信息保护造成损害。
Lin said the release of the information, as long as personal information is not published, the public who saw the information can not find the person, will not harm the protection of personal information.
“公开患者的一些信息对于加强防控有必要，如感染的途径、救治的效果，但必须以切实保障当事人隐私为前提，除非当事人自己允许披露更多信息。
"Disclosure of information about the patient is necessary to strengthen prevention and control, such as the route of infection and the effectiveness of treatment, but only if the privacy of the person concerned is effectively protected, unless the person himself or herself allows more information to be disclosed."
”吕艳滨说。
'said Lui Yanbin.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
政府该如何公开疫情信息。
How the government should disclose information about the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "政府该如何公开疫情信息";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; How the government made its epidemic information public;;
var msg_desc = "群众有需求，政府有回应，这才是好的政府治理。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; good governance is what the people wanted and the government responded to.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
