「临时抗疫」第7天，我开出了第一张死亡证明。
On the seventh day of the epidemic, I issued my first death certificate.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
蔡毅医生是武汉市中心医院的疼痛科主任，主攻微创治疗颈椎腰肩痛，从1月28日开始，他主动申请到抗疫一线，成为一名临时的「抗疫医生」。
Dr. Cai Yi, director of the pain department at Wuhan Central Hospital, specializes in minimally invasive treatment of cervical spine and shoulder pain. Starting on January 28, he volunteered to become a temporary anti-epidemic doctor.
他管理的是武汉市中心医院的发热二区病房，在这里，不到10天的时间里，他经历了患者的离世、同事的被感染和自己作为一名医生职业观的重塑。
He managed the Fever II ward at Wuhan Central Hospital, where, in less than 10 days, he experienced the death of a patient, the infection of a co-worker, and the reshaping of his professional outlook as a doctor.
我们注意到他是因为他的一条朋友圈，在那条朋友圈里，他写下了自己科室的护士感染新型冠状病毒肺炎后的经历。
We noticed him because of a circle of friends in which he wrote about his own nurses' experiences with the new coronavirus pneumonia.
故事不长，他说自己不到20分钟就写完了。
The story was short. He said he had finished it in less than 20 minutes.
但他的这段文字被截图下来，在网络上疯传。
But this paragraph of his text was captured and circulated wildly on the Internet.
2月3日，蔡毅医生接受了《人物》的采访。
On February 3, Dr. Cai Yi was interviewed by People.
这位外科医生讲的多是实在话，采访中时不时还伴有笑声，他说，自己的个性就是这样，比较「匪」，他希望在疫情之中，医护人员传递的不止有悲伤。
The surgeon was more realistic, and the interview was punctuated by laughter. He said his personality was like this, he said, "bandits." He hoped that in the midst of the epidemic, the doctors and nurses would convey more than grief.
他希望通过这次采访传递出去的声音是：接下来的两周非常关键，大家务必做好居家隔离，不要对不起医护人员的牺牲；希望有人能捐献一些呼吸机到武汉，救治更多重症患者。
His message from the interview was: 'The next two weeks will be crucial. Keep people in quarantine and don't be sorry for the sacrifices of health care workers.
以下是他的讲述——文｜罗芊编辑｜金石1我们医院现在不存在什么呼吸科的医生，全院都是呼吸科的医生。
The following is his account, less than Qian Qian, editor of our hospital, which does not have any doctors for breathing, the whole hospital is a doctor for respiration.
我是从1月28号开始到一线的。
I started on the 28th of January and went straight to the front.
内科医生不够，外科医生经过培训上岗支援一线，培训就是把这个病种增强了解，在用药上做一些培训，至于抢救这些，我们外科什么都见过，抢救流程我们都十分熟悉。
There are not enough physicians, surgeons are trained to support the frontline, the training is to enhance the understanding of the disease, some training in medicine, as to rescue these, we have seen everything surgery, we are familiar with the rescue process.
当时，医院基本所有的外科医生都报名了，我有幸第一个报名，就第一个上去了，我也搞不清楚今天几号，连续工作多久也不记得，就这么过。
At that time, the hospital all the surgeons have signed up, I was the first to sign up, I also do not know what day, how long the continuous work does not remember, that's all.
其实进一线之前，我真的没有发现有这么多的患者，进入到一线我才知道我们内科医生有多么辛苦。
In fact, before the first line, I really did not see so many patients, into the first line I just know how hard we physicians.
头天6点钟开病区，9点钟收病人，第一天就收了19个，第二天病区就满了，现在我们科室收治了33位住院患者。
At six o'clock the day before yesterday, at nine o'clock the patient was admitted, on the first day there were 19, and on the following day the ward was full.
我的原计划是带5个男医生上一线，女生做第二梯队，后来发现不行，为什么？首先病人数量超过了我们的预期，并且有些患者危重症程度超过了我的预期，第三就是防护服非常笨重，防护眼镜还经常起雾，人站在几米之外就看不清了，说话也听不清，要扯着嗓子喊，工作效率明显降低。
First, the number of patients exceeded our expectations, and some of them were more serious than I had expected.Third, the suits were very bulky, the glasses were often foggy, people stood a few metres away, they couldn't hear clearly, they shouted, and the efficiency of the work was significantly reduced.
发现这个问题之后，我把另一个院区的疼痛科门诊关掉了，科室的全部年轻医生都上一线了。
Having discovered this problem, I turned off the pain clinic in another courtyard and all the young doctors in the department were on the frontline.
我们疼痛科有12个医生，只有一个48岁的医生我让他留在家里，年纪大的感染了预后不好，其他的医生全部过来了，科里的护士也全部来了，这样才能把每个人工作时间相对缩短，这也是没有办法的办法。
Our pain department has 12 doctors, only a 48-year-old doctor I let him stay at home, the older ones had a bad prognosis, all the other doctors came, and Corey's nurses came, and there was no way to reduce everyone's working hours.
前两天，我们科一位护士感染了。
Two days ago, a nurse from our department became infected.
我接起她的电话，先听见哭声，心里就咯噔一下。
I picked up her phone and thought, first I heard a cry.
她一感染，最难受的是什么？就是医院都知道了，同事们再见到她的时候就要避开她，如果我们不避开，就容易被感染。
What's the worst thing about her infection? The hospital knows it, and colleagues have to avoid her when they see her again, and if we don't avoid it, we're susceptible to infection.
你想一想，昨天我们还在一起上班，今天被感染了，别的同事还绕着我走，这多难受。
You see, yesterday we were at work together and today we were infected and it was hard for other colleagues to walk around me.
其实我也知道自己不应该接近她，但是同事还是有情感，这就是「上头」，那没有办法，我们看到自己的同事这个样子了，谁把她送回去呢？谁安慰她呢？我加了层口罩，问她回家隔离还是住院，她的情绪也慢慢稳定下来，说家里有父母，也不想住院，想在外面租房子隔离。
In fact, I know I should not approach her, but colleagues still have feelings, this is "top," that is no way, who sent her back? Who comforted her? I added a mask, asked her to go home isolation or hospitalization, her mood slowly stabilized, said parents do not want to be hospitalized, want to rent an isolated house outside.
我说好，陪她去拿口服药，去找住的地方。
I agreed to accompany her to get oral medicine, to find a place to live.
她很快就从我们医疗职工集中居住的如家酒店撤出来了，她去整理东西的时候，我告诉她我也有点怕，所以去洗个热水澡杀杀病毒，然后再开车送她，但通知医院去消毒她的住所，我是背着她的。
She quickly withdrew from the hotel where our medical staff lived. When she went to tidy up, I told her I was afraid too, so I took a hot bath to kill the virus and then drove her to the hospital to disinfect her house.
路上，她还是决定给妈妈打电话通知情况，她父母疯了一样要往这边赶，她哭着坚持不让父母过来。
On her way home, she decided to call her mother and let her know that her parents were crazy and wanted to come this way.
最后我们到她家楼下取东西，父母和她男朋友远远地见她一下，说几句鼓励的话，她妈妈已经哭得不行了，我还要打断他们，「身份证快点拿来，你们走！」这个护士也很冷静，嘱咐她男朋友快点带她父母去医院做检查，排查。
Finally we went downstairs to pick up things, parents and her boyfriend met her far away, said a few words of encouragement, her mother has cried out, I would like to interrupt them, "ID quickly, you go!" The nurse is also calm, told her boyfriend to take her parents to the hospital for examination, screening.
看到她感染了，另一个生病的护士怕人手不够，自己就把长头发剪掉，要上一线。
Seeing that she was infected, the other sick nurse, afraid of not having enough hands, cut off her long hair to go on the front line.
我看她身体不舒服，想让她休息两天的，但是她一看到同事感染了，就跟我说，「倒掉了一个我就上，今天就上班」。
I thought she was sick and wanted her to take two days off, but as soon as she saw that her co-worker was infected, she told me, "Just dump one and I'll go to work today."
其他地方我不知道，我们科室到目前为止，没有哪个说我现在病倒了，我现在不舒服，要退下的。
Elsewhere I do not know, our department so far, no one said that I am now ill, I am not feeling well, to retire.
相反我们医疗人员和护理人员，特别是护士，很多老公拉着不让来，爸妈拉着不让来，都没用，她们把家里的电话掐断，主动报名，直接上火线，谁去鼓动她们，没有人鼓动她们，都是年纪轻轻的小姑娘。
On the contrary, many of our medical and nursing staff, especially nurses, are young girls who are not allowed to come by their husbands or mothers or by their parents. They cut off the telephone at home, sign up for it, go straight to the fire, who instigate them, nobody agitates them, all young girls.
而且在一线，很多护士工作的时间要比医生长，这让我觉得女人的抗压能力比男人还强。
And in the first line, a lot of nurses work longer hours than doctors, which makes me think women are more stress-resistant than men.
医护人员在群中主动报名图源武汉中心医院微博2后来，那个感染的护士她父母和男友去做了排查，结果很不好，父亲也被感染了，片子比她还严重。
Wuhan Central Hospital Weibo 2 Later, the infected nurse her parents and boyfriend went to do a search, the result is very bad, the father was infected, the film is more serious than her.
和17年前的SARS相比，这次的病毒传播性比较强，传播比较隐蔽，而且比较快，在潜伏期就可以传染。
Compared with SARS 17 years ago, the virus is more transmissible, more subtle and faster, and can be transmitted during latency.
我们医院有些员工没有任何的症状，排查出来，显示已经感染了。
Some of our hospital staff did not have any symptoms, screening out, showing that the infection has been.
但和SARS相比，它的毒性比较弱，年纪大的患者、一些体质比较弱、有基础疾病的患者，危险性会比较大，但一般年轻的患者预后都还好。
But compared with SARS, it is less toxic, older patients, some of the more weak, basic disease patients, the risk will be greater, but the general young patients have a better prognosis.
而且它的治疗手段也和SARS不太一样。
And its treatment is not the same as SARS.
SARS起病比较急促，早期可能会用大剂量的激素，500到1000毫克的激素，但这次，我们大多推注的剂量才40到80毫克，1000除以40，25倍的剂量区别，很大的差别。
The onset of SARS is rather rapid, early may use large doses of hormones, 500 to 1000 mg of hormones, but this time, most of our injections are only 40 to 80 milligrams, 1000 divided by 40, 25 times the difference in dose.
所以很多人担心的治愈后遗症，比如股骨头坏死这些使用激素的后遗症，这次来讲的话，发生的几率要小很多，所以说大家可以放松点儿。
So the cures that many people worry about, such as osteonecrosis of the femoral head, a hangover from hormone use, are much less likely to occur this time around, so relax.
面对疫情，最了解这个疾病的是医护人员，我们都知道自己有可能会感染，但我们相信自己年轻力壮，即使感染了，不会有太多的并发症，甚至居家隔离就有很好的效果，我们有这种底气，外科医生身体都不错的，我们已经想到了如果感染之后会是什么样子。
In the face of the epidemic, it is the paramedics who are most aware of the disease, we all know that we may be infected, but we believe that we are young and strong, even if infected, there are not many complications, even home isolation is very good, we have the courage, surgeons are good, we have thought if the infection will look like.
但是当我们真正知道被感染的那一霎那，那个情绪波动，作为「人」来讲的话，是不可能规避的，尤其是自己的家人也被感染了，那种内疚真的难以形容。
But when we really know the moment we get infected, that emotion, as a "person," cannot be avoided, especially if one's family is infected, and the guilt is really indescribable.
我们每周都会集体做一次CT排查，你玩过那个玩具吗？按鳄鱼嘴巴里牙齿的那个玩具，那个玩具就和我们拍CT一样的感觉，按着按着，不知道谁是中标的那一个。
Have you ever played with that toy? Press the toy in the crocodile's mouth and it feels like a CT scan. Press the button and don't know which one is the winner.
你可能什么症状都没有，一做CT，发现自己被感染了，我们就是这个心情。
You may not have any symptoms, a CT, found themselves infected, we are in this mood.
我们科室这个被感染的护士做了三次CT，前两次都没有，这次有了，你说它能够预测吗？预测不了。
Our department this infected nurse made three CT, the first two did not have, this time, you say it can predict? No.
每次大家都会相互鼓励，科里的年轻医生说，「老大你先上」，我一般也会第一个上去。
Every time everyone would encourage each other, Corey's young doctor said, "You go first, boss," and I would usually go first.
之前有两天，我觉得很累很累，眼睛也不舒服，我怕万一有事，晚上就自己一个人去拍CT，我出门发动车子，脚踩在油门上，腿都有一点发软，因为我觉得我所有的症状都符合，而且我跟这些患者近距离接触了，最后拍出来没问题，我才放心。
For two days before, I felt very tired and my eyes were not well. I was afraid that if something should happen, I would go out and take a CT by myself at night. I would start my car, step on the accelerator and my legs were a little weak.
所以每次拍CT，我们都会一起拍CT，因为一个人去拍真的很需要勇气，万一查到自己是中标的那一个，特别需要同事安慰。
So every time we take a CT, we take a CT together, because it really takes courage to take a picture, in case I find out that I am the winner, I need the comfort of my colleagues.
某种程度上，这种「怕」就是一种本能。
To some extent, this fear is an instinct.
举个蛮简单的例子，假如说你现在有胆囊炎需要开刀你慌不慌，把胆囊切掉，也不会死，但是我现在告诉你马上开刀了你慌不慌？这个疾病我们目前整个治疗才几周？谁能够保证以后有没有什么问题？我们都是年纪轻轻的人，肺上破坏了一道，痊愈了以后有没有影响，你也会担心是不是？而且还是有年轻的患者拜拜的是吧？要是运气不好，我正好是那百分之几呢？所以说发生在自己身上还是吓一跳，你明知道这个病预后还可以，但得了病总是不舒服的。
For example, if you have cholecystitis and need to be operated on, you don't panic, cut off the gall bladder, and you won't die, but I'm telling you right now.
幸好我这个人还是比较「匪」，我是武汉人，我们武汉人就是「匪」的。
Fortunately, I am still relatively "bandit", I am Wuhan people, we Wuhan people are "bandit."
我们同事每天在防护服后面写名字，我从不写加油，经常给他们写，「毒王1号」，「毒王2号」。
Our colleagues write names behind their protective clothing every day. I never write gasoline. I often write to them, "Poison King 1," "King Poison 2."
我的个性就是这样的，我是一个外科医生，做手术经常会碰到各种问题，所以我们要有很好的抗压能力，要保持理性乐观。
This is my personality, I am a surgeon, surgery often encounter a variety of problems, so we have to have a good stress resistance, to maintain rational optimism.
这些天，很多同学安慰我、鼓励我，给我送物资，同事也总说，「老大你不能倒」，我说不要紧，还开玩笑，哪天我感染了被隔离了，我就有更多的时间发朋友圈了，是吧？这个被感染的护士最后还是决定来住院，和她的爸爸一起来，住在一间病房，我不会过多鼓励她，她知道最真实的情况，也知道最真实的预后，她心里过了那个不舒服的坎就好了。
These days, many of my classmates comforted me, encouraged me, sent me supplies, and colleagues always said, "Don't fail, boss," I said no matter, jokingly, the infected nurse finally decided to come to the hospital, stay in a ward with her father, and I won't encourage her too much.
图源武汉中心医院微博3之前在疼痛科，开科五年，我主要是做微创技术治疗颈椎腰肩痛，基本不怎么会开死亡记录，怎么写我都不会，今天早上，我收治的一个重症患者没抢救过来去世了，所有东西我都要从头学，真的是这样的。
Wuhan Central Hospital Weibo 3 Before the pain department, Kaike five years ago, I mainly do a minimally invasive treatment of cervical spine waist and shoulder pain, basically do not write a death record, how I do not write, this morning, I admitted a severe patient did not save died, everything I have to learn from scratch really.
这个患者是自己开着车过来看病的，60多岁，是个高级教授，现在规定是，新型冠状病毒肺炎逝者家属是不能和遗体见面的，所有遗体都由殡仪馆统一处理。
The patient, a 60-year-old senior professor who drove his own car to see the doctor, is now ruled out of sight of the coronavirus pneumonia bereaved of family members, and all the coronavirus remains are handled by the funeral home.
这位患者查核酸是疑似阳性，从他的影像学片子看，基本上是确诊了，但他的死亡证明上，我们也只能写疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎，除非查出来确定是阳性，才能写确诊。
This patient is suspected to be positive, from his imaging, basically confirmed, but his death certificate, we can only write a suspected new coronavirus pneumonia, unless it is identified as positive, to write the diagnosis.
这两天大家都在谈诊断标准，从临床来看，核酸这个检查老实说很多医生也不认可，因为很多病例我们从影像上进行检查、比如说通过CT，肺部的改变我们可能看得更清楚一点点。
We've been talking about diagnostic criteria for the last two days, and clinically, nucleic acid tests are frankly not acceptable to many doctors, because in many cases we examine images, say, through CT, and changes in the lungs that we might be able to see more clearly.
核酸检查采集样本，如果你采得不够深，很有可能会显示阴性，假阴性，它需要反复地测，所以我给所有患者交代的都是不要太过于关注核酸检测的结果。
Nucleic acid sampling, if you're not deep enough, is likely to show negative, false negative, it needs to be tested repeatedly, so I'm telling all patients not to pay too much attention to nucleic acid test results.
这位患者离世了，家属要回去，车也不好叫。
The patient is dead, the family wants to go back, the car is not easy to shout.
患者的儿子到美国去了，来送他的是两个老人，一个哭得不成人形，是他老伴，另外是他一个弟弟，两个都是老人。
The son of the sufferer had gone to America, and two old men had come to bring him, an invalid, his wife, and one of his younger brothers, both old men.
他们要把患者的东西带回去，还要办理各种手续，要签字、拍照，死亡证明要上传，两个老人怎么弄呢？只有我们帮他。
They had to take the patient's things back, go through all the formalities, sign, photograph, upload the death certificate, what about the two old people? Only we could help him.
那两个老人跟我说，他们自己想办法回去，我说你们想什么办法。
The two old men told me that they would try to get back by themselves, and I said what you would do.
难道这个时候去打一个电话，找一个代驾吗？假如说找代驾，不告诉别人这是感染者的车，好吗？其次，现在武汉市找得到代驾吗？我就说，「我帮你开回去算了，你们等我吧」。
Is this the time to make a phone call, find a proxy? If you ask for a replacement, do not tell others this is the infected person's car, okay? Second, now Wuhan can find a proxy? I said, "I help you to drive back calculated, you wait for me."
我拿着酒精下去给车消毒，打开车门没多会儿，车里的收音机开始放广播，把我吓得不行。
I took the alcohol down to disinfect the car, opened the car door, and a few minutes later, the car radio began to play, scaring me out.
这位患者的车停在负二楼一个角落里面，阴森森的，那台车的型号我不熟悉，收音机一下开起来，我连关都不知道怎么关。
The patient's car was parked in a dark corner of the second floor. I wasn't familiar with the model of the car. The radio turned on and I didn't know how to turn it off.
很真实吧，这就是我身边真实的故事。
It's true. That's the real story around me.
我原来是搞麻醉的，我见过很多生生死死，但很多生生死死家属都可以在旁边陪伴，但是感染患者的生生死死，家属是没有办法陪伴的，最后给予他安慰的就只有我们，有很多患者家属都嫌弃他们，有的患者送来，家属就直接走了，甚至没有家属送来，有些患者也不想感染家属，自己一个人住院。
I used to be an anesthesiologist, I've seen a lot of people die or die, but a lot of life and death can be with them, but the infected person's life and death, family members have no way to accompany him, and finally give him comfort, some patients sent, families directly, even no family, some patients do not want to infect their families, alone hospitalized.
最后这位患者的抢救过程我一直在里面，早上搞了三个小时，我就在那里，能尽力的给他尽力，患者的血氧从70到60到50到40，到抢救快结束的时候，我让年轻的医生都出去了，因为有很大的感染风险。
I was there for three hours in the morning, trying to give him the best I could, the blood oxygen ranged from 70 to 60 to 50 to 40, and by the end of the day, I sent all the young doctors out because of the high risk of infection.
我送他走到最后，没有办法再救治了，没有办法再往下走了，我就在里面，坐着陪他，就是这种感觉。
I walked him to the end, there is no way to save him, there is no way to go down, I was inside, sitting with him, that is the feeling.
他没有交代遗言，只是一直跟我说，不要放弃我。
He didn't give up his last words. He just kept telling me not to give up on me.
他氧气感觉跟不上来的时候，我帮他把氧气罩搭上去，其实按道理说，我搭这个有很大传染性，但我知道，患者在临走的时候需要有人安抚，也许我们什么都做不了，但是我们还是要安抚他，要给他希望，我鼓励他，我说，会好的，会好的，让他一直走到最后。
When he couldn't keep up with the oxygen, I put the oxygen mask on him, which was quite contagious, but I knew that the patient needed to be comforted when he left, maybe we couldn't do anything, but we had to calm him down, give him hope, I said, it would be fine, I said, it would be fine, I said, until he came to the end.
这些情绪太负面了，你看到一个人走到最后无能为力，只有看着他走，而且他家属没有办法陪伴，你知道那种感觉吗？但你们听了别太往心里去，其实我心理状态蛮好的，没办法，有些东西我改变不了，有些病我救治不了，那我就认了，我还要救治后面的患者，我还有30多个患者，今天又进了2个，我还要继续救治，不能说我现在情绪不好，我就不干了，那这些患者怎么办，我现在这些病人怎么办？也有人说一线的医护人员需不需要心理咨询，但现在，我们哪有时间做心理咨询？心理医生都进不了我们医院，我们自己调节或者互相调节一下吧，开个玩笑，乐观一点，还能怎么办？真的没办法。
Do you know how it feels when a person walks to the end and can't help but watch him go and his family has no way to be with him? But don't take it to heart.
以后吧，等疫情过去了，一线的一些医生、护士还是要做一些心理辅导，但这都是以后的事情了。
In the future, when the epidemic is over, some of the first line of doctors, nurses or do some psychological counseling, but this is after the matter.
医护人员的手 图源武汉中心医院微博4这次疫情，我越来越能感受到患者对医生的依赖，我觉得我们还是挺被人需要的。
Wuhan Central Hospital Weibo 4 This outbreak, I can more and more feel the dependence of patients on doctors, I think we are still quite needed.
我以前并不想当医生，高考的时候，我的分数能考上清华大学，但是我爸爸希望我学医，我就报考了华中科技大学同济医学院。
I didn't want to be a doctor before, but my father wanted me to study medicine, so I applied to Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
毕业后，刚开始我干麻醉，手术做得很漂亮，但大家也关注不到麻醉，当然很正常，后来我做疼痛外科，在很多中国人的观念中，疼痛可以扛过去，不需要治，但这一次，很多患者生命受到威胁的时候，这种对医生的需要和认同，甚至超过了对家属的依赖。
After graduation, I began to dry anesthesia, the operation is very beautiful, but people are not concerned about anesthesia, of course, it is normal, I do pain surgery, in many Chinese ideas, pain can carry past, do not need to cure, but this time, when many patients' lives are threatened, the need for and recognition of the doctor, even more than dependence on the family.
这个疾病的特殊性决定了我们和患者的沟通没有那么畅通，毕竟穿着防护服，还戴着防护眼镜，所以说很多跟患者的对接，我们都会通过微信群分组沟通，这是协和医院的杨东教授教给我的方法。
The special nature of the disease means that our communication with patients is not so smooth. After all, we wear protective clothing and glasses, so we all communicate with our patients through microphone groups, as Professor Yang of Concorde Hospital taught me.
我们把每个组的医生和他管理的患者编在一个群里，而我在每个群里。
We put each group of doctors in a group with the patients he managed, and I was in each group.
这样的话，即便没有查房的时候，患者有什么想知道的，我们有什么想告诉患者的，都可以第一时间沟通。
In this way, even if there is no room inspection, what patients want to know, what we want to tell patients, can be the first time to communicate.
这种方法也是我们医患之间增进了解的方式，对有些患者来说也是一种鼓励。
It is also a way to improve understanding between doctors and patients, and for some patients it is also an encouragement.
因为有些患者的情绪会比较低落，别人鼓励他，家属鼓励他，他都不太信，医生毕竟代表着专业，如果我们鼓励他的话，他可能会更信任一点点。
Because some patients tend to be in low spirits and are encouraged by others and encouraged by family members, he doesn't trust them. After all, doctors represent a profession, and if we encourage him, he may trust a little more.
患者有时候也很令我感动。
Patients can also be very touching.
有些人的很多症状，都是我们问出来的，我们没去查房的时候，他们即使喘息，也都忍着不说，不去按呼叫铃，因为怕我们累，怕麻烦我们，也怕传染我们。
Many of the symptoms of some people, we asked, we did not go to the house, even when they gasped, do not press the call bell, for fear of us tired, afraid to trouble us, afraid of infecting us.
我有个病人因为政策要转到火神山医院治疗，一个50多岁的男性，他跟我们告别的时候直接哭起来了，他说自己非常舍不得走，我们都觉得很难受。
One of my patients, a 50-year-old man who was about to be transferred to Mount Fukuyama Hospital for treatment, started to cry directly when he said good-bye to us.
平时患者最多给我送锦旗什么的，从来没有这种哭起来的，这些天，我们医护人员跟患者就像战友一样，真的叫心连心，平时很少有这种感觉。
Usually patients give me the most brocade flag or anything, never this kind of cry, these days, our medical staff and patients like comrades-in-arms, really called Heart to Heart, rarely this feeling.
这几天很多人因为我发的朋友圈来采访我，我想说，我有钱，我会开刀，我有技术，不需要做什么网红。
These days a lot of people because I sent friends to interview me, I would like to say, I have money, I can operate, I have skills, do not need to do any red net.
我发朋友圈就是想提醒广大的市民，刚开始一下来了这么多的病人，我心都是慌的，我不知道何时是一个头，不知道会不会越治越多，但后来发现一旦隔离之后，武汉市街道上没什么人了，我感觉到了一点控制的趋势，所以我就是想呼吁一下，接下来的两周，大家务必做好居家隔离，不要辜负医护人员的牺牲。
I want to remind the public, just started to come down so many patients, my heart is panic, I do not know when is a head, do not know more and more people, but later found that once isolated, Wuhan streets, I feel a little control trend, so I just want to call for the next two weeks, you must be home isolation, do not live up to the sacrifice of medical personnel.
物资方面，我们是武汉市最大的三甲医院，还在华南海鲜市场旁边，我们物资目前看上去是够的，具体差什么呢？差的是合乎规格的物资，比如说防护服、口罩，我们有，真正达到标准的，比较难。
In terms of materials, we are the largest Sanjia Hospital in Wuhan, and it is next to the South China Seafood Market.
但有些比我们小的兄弟医院，连基础物资都缺乏。
But some of our smaller brother hospitals lack even basic supplies.
目前面对这个疾病，我们暂时也没有太多办法，第一对症治疗，其次增加免疫力，再就是控制并发症，就没有了，重症的患者，到最后要么是心衰，要么是呼衰，现在大多数患者是呼衰。
For the time being, we don't have much to do with the disease. First, symptomatic treatment, second, increased immunity, then management of complications, no more, severe cases, ultimately either heart failure or respiratory failure, and now most patients are failing.
所以一线医院目前最需要的还有呼吸机。
So what first-line hospitals need most is breathing machines.
在这里呼呼大家，有钱的可以捐一点不错的呼吸机，有些2万左右的无创呼吸机就很好，这种呼吸机如果再多一点点，在这个期间可能会救治更多的重症患者。
Here, the rich can donate a little bit of a good ventilator, some 20,000 non-invasive breathing machine is good, if a little more of this ventilator, during this period may be more serious patients.
最后，我想说的是，大家务必再坚持一下，顶住。
Finally, I would like to say, we must insist on, resist.
等疫情过去，我最想做的事是和同事们去大吃一顿，吃宵夜、喝啤酒，武汉人最喜欢宵夜了，这段时间真的憋死我了。
When the epidemic is over, what I would like to do most is to eat a big meal with my colleagues, have supper and drink beer. Wuhan people like to have supper.
疫情暴发前的武汉宵夜摊没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Did not see enough of the pre-outbreak Wuhan night stand? Long two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-letter more wonderful story waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「临时抗疫」第7天，我开出了第一张死亡证明。
On the seventh day of the epidemic, I issued my first death certificate.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「临时抗疫」第7天，我开出了第一张死亡证明";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; day 7.
var msg_desc = "武汉一线医生的两个忠告。
var msg _ desc = & quot; two pieces of advice from Wuhan's leading doctor.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
