「在疫区，中年人没有地方可以哭」｜武汉心理咨询师的510通电话。
"Middle-aged people have no place to cry in affected areas," a 510 telephone call from a counselor in Wuhan.
每人作者。
Author per person.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
北大精神卫生研究所曾在2004年做过一项调查，发现SARS痊愈出院的病人3个月内抑郁状态和焦虑状态的检出率分别是16.4%和10.1%。
A 2004 survey by the Institute of Mental Health at Peking University found that 16.4 percent of patients who recovered from SARS and 10.1 percent of patients discharged from the hospital had depression and anxiety status within three months.
严重传染性疾病与一系列精神疾病存在联系，根据国内外的研究，重大灾难后精神障碍的发生率为10%到20%，常见的症状包括：创伤后应激反应、抑郁反应、焦虑反应、躯体化反应等。
There is a link between serious communicable diseases and a range of mental disorders, ranging from 10 to 20 per cent in the aftermath of major disasters, according to domestic and international studies. Common symptoms include post-traumatic stress, depressive reactions, anxiety reactions, somatic reactions, etc.
和SARS相似，新型冠状肺炎同样具有事发突然、传染性强、缺乏特效治疗药物等特点。
Similar to SARS, the new coronary pneumonia is also sudden, infectious, lack of specific treatment drugs and other characteristics.
强迫性的隔离、封闭的生存环境、高度刺激的信息更新给不同人群带来不同程度的心理损伤，它可能侵入的对象包括医护人员、病患及其家属，以及健康的普通人。
Forced isolation, closed living environment and highly stimulating information update bring different levels of psychological damage to different groups of people. It may invade medical personnel, patients and their families, as well as healthy and ordinary people.
疫情发生以后，各个省市陆续设立了自己的心理援助热线。
Since the outbreak, provinces and municipalities have set up their own psychological assistance hotline.
武汉宣布封城当天，湖北心理咨询师协会会长肖劲松教授找到心理咨询师杜洺君，第一时间开设了湖北心理热线（15342296955）。
Wuhan announced the day of the closure of the Hubei Association of Psychological Counselors Professor Xiao Jingsong found a counselor DuZengjun, the first time opened the Hubei psychological hotline (15342296955).
她成为了湖北心协热线首批心理咨询师之一。
She became one of the first counselors of Hubei Heart Association hotline.
杜洺君从事心理培训多年，在2013年取得心理咨询师证，2014年的时候，她被确诊为乳腺癌，开始用心理学来辅助自己的治疗和康复。
After years of psychological training, Du obtained a psychologist's certificate in 2013, and in 2014 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and began to use psychology to assist in her treatment and rehabilitation.
在同济医学院附属协和医院肿瘤中心，积累了大量肿瘤心理危机干预、医护人员心理健康辅导的案例和经验。
At Tongji Medical College, the Tongji Concorde Hospital Oncology Center has accumulated a large number of cases and experiences of psychological crisis intervention and mental health counseling for medical staff.
从1月23日至2月5日，湖北心理热线的团队接到了510通求助电话，累计提供心理危机干预1000次以上。
From January 23 to February 5, the Hubei psychological hotline team received 510 calls for help, a total of more than 1,000 psychological crisis intervention.
其中95%是非医护人员发来的求助。
Of these, 95 per cent were from non-medical personnel.
有人每隔半小时就测量一次体温，有人因为「疑冠」将自己封闭在房间内……新冠带来的伤害，不仅在生理层面上发生作用，同时也在心上埋下了一颗雷。
Someone took a temperature test every half-hour, and someone shut himself up in his room because of the "crown of suspicion..." The damage caused by the new crown worked not only physiologically, but also in the heart.
疫情发生后，杜洺君每天需要工作到凌晨，身体时常陷入深度疲惫的状态，但她始终用温柔、平缓的语气回答问题。
After the outbreak, Du had to work until the early hours of the morning and often fell into a state of deep fatigue.
她听到过不同的哭声和苦难，有时候也会跟着电话那头的人同频流泪，慢慢安抚对方，轻轻揉开他们心上的褶皱。
She had heard different cries and tribulations, and sometimes shed tears with the people on the other end of the line, slowly soothing each other and gently rubbing the wrinkles in their hearts.
2月7日接受采访的最后，她哽咽了，「我们能做的事情太少了，我真的希望能够通过我一个小小的声音，去召唤所有人能够做些改变，更加去珍惜那一点点健康，一点点自由。
At the end of the interview on February 7, she choked. "There is so little we can do. I really want to be able to use my little voice to summon people to make a difference, to cherish a little bit of health, a little bit of freedom.
」以下是杜洺君的讲述。
"Here is Du Zengjun's story.
文｜林秋铭编辑｜萧祷                                        1李文亮医生去世了，这个事情是一个点，通过这个点可以看到我们整体的痛。
Yeg-yeg's prayer: Dr. Li Wenliang has died, and this event is a point through which we can see our overall pain.
从疫情开始到2月5日，我们的热线一共接到了510通电话。
From the outbreak until February 5, our hotline received 510 calls.
医护人员的电话打进来，最常表现的状态就是对于疫情的倦怠和无力，还有对于他们自身所处状况的焦虑和恐惧。
The most common form of health-care call-in is the languor and powerlessness of the epidemic, as well as the anxiety and fear of their own situation.
我接过一个呼吸科医生的电话，打来电话那天她已经连续上了9个小时的班，每天都在高强度工作，晚上得吃安定片才能睡着。
I got a call from a respiratory doctor who had been on duty for nine hours on a row, working very hard every day and sleeping on tranquillizers at night.
她每天要面对很多发热病人，有的病人，她需要将耳朵贴近他们的嘴边，飞沫很难防范。
She faces a lot of feverish patients every day, some of whom need to keep their ears close to their mouths.
护目镜雾气很重，没办法写病历，只好摘掉。
The goggles were too foggy to write medical records, so they had to be removed.
这些工作中的细节都让她非常焦虑。
The details of the work worried her a lot.
医生们可能出现的一些心理问题，比如抑郁、人际关系敏感，现在都只能做预期的评估，是根据过往的经验做的预警。
Some of the psychological problems doctors may have, such as depression and sensitive relationships, can now only be assessed as expected, a warning based on past experience.
很早的时候，我们就对接到武汉市各大医院的护理部。
From a very early age, we received from the nursing departments of the major hospitals in Wuhan.
比较大的医院已经成立了自己的心理热线，他们也有内部的心理支持体系，我们遇到的一线医护人员的情况，目前大部分是相对稳定的。
The larger hospitals have set up their own psychological hotlines, they also have an internal psychological support system, and most of the front-line staff we met are relatively stable at present.
实际上，我们接待的医护人员比例不到5%，他们根本没时间打电话。
In fact, we host less than 5 percent of health care workers, and they don't have time to make phone calls.
相比其他人群，他们的心理状态会比较滞后一些，可能到疫情差不多快结束的时候，他们可能才有精力去顾自己的心理状态。
They lag behind the rest of the population and may not have the energy to look after themselves until almost the end of the epidemic.
那个时候介入其实也不会迟。
It would not have been too late to intervene.
所有的个体都会有底线和管理的(方式)，都有心理上自我修复的机制，不一定都要借助外界的力量，自己就可以完成。
All individuals have a bottom line, a management mechanism, a psychological self-healing mechanism, not all of which can be done by themselves with the help of outside forces.
我认为大部分的医护人员会安然度过这个疫情，这个只是他们职业生涯当中的一件事情。
I think most health care workers will survive this epidemic, and that's just one thing in their careers.
一些医护人员给我们打电话，说他们害怕，甚至受不了，但是这些话是瞬间的语言，所有人都会有的，它是一个表达，不代表他们的态度。
Some paramedics call us and say they're scared, they can't even stand it, but these words are instantaneous words that all people have. It's an expression, not an attitude.
他们哭完了，倾诉完了以后，第二天又很有毅力地上班了，我们不能根据他当下的情况断章取义地判断他整体的状态。
When they had finished crying and talking, they went to work the next day with determination. We could not judge the state of his whole body from his current situation.
这是作为一个医护人员的职业素养，我们不能轻视他们的自我修复能力，不要总刻意地找他们崩溃的瞬间，其实这些瞬间是很少的。
This is a medical professional quality, we can not despise their self-repair ability, do not always look for their collapse moments, in fact these moments are very few.
更多时候，他们会要求自己如常地、比以往更坚强地去做他们的工作，我们应该给他们敬意。
More often than not, they are demanding that they do their jobs as usual, stronger than ever, and we should honor them.
武汉大学中南医院医生饶歆单脚受伤仍拐杖上岗图源武汉大学中南医院微信公众号                     2最开始，求助的人90%是女性，女性沟通的能力强一些，也比男性更善于求助，男性可能更会隐藏自己，尤其不太善于表达自己脆弱的部分。
Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital doctor Raoshin single leg injury still crutches induction source Wuhan University Zhongshan Hospital Weixin Public 2 started out with 90% female help, better communication skills than men, men are more likely to hide themselves, especially not good at expressing their vulnerability.
现在这个数据在变化，男性也慢慢地多起来，接近7比3的比例，关注的点也越来越趋同，都是生死存亡的问题，并没有明显的分界。
Now that the numbers are changing, men are slowly increasing, approaching the 7-3 ratio, and the points of concern are increasingly converging, life-or-death issues, with no clear demarcation.
有一个年轻人打电话进来，情绪状态非常低落，他的丈母娘和老婆都已经进了医院，自己也确诊了轻度的感染。
A young man called in, feeling very depressed. His mother-in-law and his wife were in the hospital, and he confirmed a mild infection.
不同于日常的心理咨询，我们现在属于危机干预。
Unlike daily psychological counseling, we now belong to crisis intervention.
干预是分级的，一级是在线干预，在10分钟左右可以完成，这个过程当中咨询师会判断对方的状态，在线做评估，如果确认10分钟是不够的，我们会有进一步的支持。
Interventions are hierarchical, with an online intervention that can be completed in about 10 minutes, in which the counselor judges the other person's status and makes an online assessment. If 10 minutes is not enough, we will have further support.
二级就是根据他的状况，会转到后台，让心理咨询师再回拨过去。
The second level is based on his condition, will be transferred to the background, psychological counselors call back to the past.
还存在三级的情况，当他的问题和状态需要持续跟踪，我们会联动社区做更实际的帮助。
There are also three levels, when his problems and status require constant follow-up, and we will engage the community for more practical help.
对这个年轻人，我们的心理咨询师给他在线做了一级干预之后，他的状态稳定了下来，已经能够一个人在家里看电视了。
For this young man, after our counselor gave him an online intervention, his condition stabilized and he was able to watch TV alone at home.
我们继续联动，把这个消息发到媒体和社区，社区向我们做了确认，得知这个情况属实，马上安排了人和车，为这个轻度感染的病人安排到了医院的床位。
We continued to link up and send the message to the media and the community, which confirmed this to us and arranged for people and cars to be placed in the hospital bed for the mildly infected patient.
除了医生、患者之外，感染者的家属也是这场疫情中的易感人群。
In addition to doctors, patients, the infected family members are also vulnerable to the epidemic.
他们是一直陪伴着患者的，因为这场疫情去世的人的家属，他们会比较严重一些。
They have been with the patients, because the outbreak of the death of the family, they will be more serious.
有一天早晨，一个女士打电话来，说她父母都病重，在两家不同的医院住，她需要每天两头跑，给爸爸买好早饭，还要跑去另一家医院陪妈妈。
One morning a woman called to say that her parents were very ill and that she lived in two different hospitals. She had to run two times a day to buy her father breakfast and run to another hospital to stay with her mother.
她很害怕哪一次回来，爸爸就不在了。
She was afraid that when she returned, her father would not be there.
她是独生女，现在也请不到护工，压力和恐慌让她在电话里嚎啕大哭。
She was an only child and now has no nurses. Stress and panic caused her to howl on the phone.
我让她先吃点饭，调整好自己的心态。
I let her have some food first, adjust her mind.
她平静下来后，我再把她转给了另一个咨询师，进行三级的持续跟踪。
When she calmed down, I transferred her to another counselor for a three-tiered sustained follow-up.
我们有时候会和电话那头的咨询者一起流泪，那是一种同情和同理，是咨询师对他的一种感知。
We sometimes shed tears with the counselor on the other end of the line, a sympathy and empathy, a counselor's perception of him.
在这个状态下，咨询师是跟她同频的，心理咨询师有双重身份，我流的是她的眼泪。
In this state, the consultant is with her frequency, the psychologist has dual status, I shed her tears.
我们一级干预有20多个心理咨询师，二级干预有202个人。
We have more than 20 counsellors at the first level and 202 at the second.
我们要求做一级接听的咨询老师，咨询时长要有200个小时以上，年龄在40岁左右，需要有丰富的经验。
We require a first-level counselor with a consultation time of more than 200 hours, and who is around the age of 40 and needs a lot of experience.
咨询师们是轮值的制度，目前还没到忙不过来的程度。
Consultants are rotating systems and have not yet reached the point where they are overworked.
人手是足够的，甚至是不饱和，我们希望有更多的人可以找到我们。
Staffing is sufficient, even unsaturated, and we hope that more people will find us.
接到的电话里，武汉和湖北省其他县市的占2/3，还有1/3来自全国。
Wuhan and other counties in Hubei Province accounted for two-thirds of the calls received, and one-third came from all over the country.
前两天，有一个江苏的咨询者打电话过来说，我就占用一秒钟，我来谢谢你们，我现在已经好多了。
Two days ago, a counselor from Jiangsu called and said, 'I'll just take a second, and I'll thank you. I'm much better now.
最北的有黑龙江，最南的有海南岛，我们都接到过电话。
The northernmost is Heilongjiang, the southernmost of which is Hainan Island.
打完了以后，他们会说，抱歉，我们占用了你们湖北的资源，谢谢你们给我们支持。
When they're done, they'll say, 'I'm sorry, but we've taken up your Hubei resources, and thank you for your support.'
这很让人感动。
This is very moving.
西南医科大学附属医院对援鄂医疗队进行远程视频心理辅导图源健康西南微信公众号                     3目前形势下，一个很重要的心理趋向，「疑冠」（怀疑自己得了新冠）的人变多了。
The Southwestern Medical University Affiliated Hospital conducted a remote video counseling program for the medical team in Hubei Province. From the current situation, there is an important psychological trend, with more and more people having doubts about their new crown.
有的人怀疑自己生病，会把自己隔离起来。
Some people suspect that they are ill and will isolate themselves.
当他处在单独的一个空间里面，孤单、恐惧和焦虑会到达高峰，这一类人打电话进来，我是非常感动的，这是基于爱和责任做出的选择，宁愿自己去承担这个后果，也不愿意去影响到家人。
When he is in a separate space and loneliness, fear and anxiety reach their peak, I am very moved by the kind of person who calls and makes a choice based on love and responsibility, preferring to bear the consequences for himself rather than affecting his family.
还有一个关于爱和责任的故事。
There is also a story about love and responsibility.
我们接待过最小的咨询者才12岁。
The smallest counselor we've ever had is 12 years old.
电话一接起来的时候，就听到旁边一个斥责声。
As soon as the telephone was connected, a reprimand was heard beside it.
他妈妈在旁边说，叫你不要打，你非要打。
His mother stood by and said, Tell you not to fight, you must.
小孩子冲他妈妈喊，妈妈，我是帮你打的。
The little boy called to his mother, Mom, I did it for you.
妈妈没有吭声。
Mom didn't say anything.
他转过来对我说，我妈妈太焦虑了。
He turned to me and said that my mother was too anxious.
我说好，你需要我们给你什么支持，他想了想跟我讲，给我派个专家吧。
I said, you need us to give you any support, he thought to tell me, send me an expert.
孩子就是想帮妈妈。
Kids just want to help mommy.
他后来开了免提，全家人围在一起聊天，情绪得到了缓解。
He later opened the door, and the whole family gathered to talk, and their spirits eased.
他妈妈的情况比较严重，也是比较常见的焦虑，我们都会存在。
His mother's condition is more serious, and a more common anxiety, and we all exist.
这时候要调整好自己的心态，多做一些其他事情，对疫情时间长度做好心理预期。
At this time to adjust their own mentality, do more other things, the length of the epidemic to do psychological expectations.
有的人会不断地强迫性地刷新闻，可以把它理解为自己的责任感和对重大事件的关注，但不要因为刷新闻影响自身的情绪，要控制那个度。
Some people obsessively brush up on the news and interpret it as a sense of responsibility or concern for events, but don't let the brush affect your mood.
现在来求助的年龄层是中间高两头尖，30岁到50岁的人群占2/3。
The median age bracket that comes in for help now is the median height, with two-thirds of those aged 30 to 50.
中间年龄层的求助者要承担的东西会更多一些。
Clients in the middle age bracket have more to take on.
他们是家庭收入的主要来源，这个时候收支平衡被打破，肯定会有一定的压力。
They are the main source of household income, and when the balance of payments is broken, there is bound to be some pressure.
但是现在的需求已经到了最底层，生命本身的压力才是第一位的，人人都已经被这场疫情推回到了最原始的点。
But demand has now reached the bottom, life itself is the first pressure, everyone has been pushed back to the original point of the epidemic.
中年人通常会表达他的责任和疫情的矛盾，他其实隐隐地知道自己的付出，他们没有地方可以哭，他觉得自己在家人面前，不可以表露真实的恐惧和内在。
Middle-aged people often express his responsibility and the conflict of epidemic, he actually vaguely know their pay, they have no place to cry, he felt in front of his family, can not show real fear and inner.
很多人熬到最后一刻才打电话过来，我们的老师告诉他，其实你可以哭的。
Many people stayed up until the last minute to call, and our teacher told him you could cry.
这个时候，他才会在电话那头嚎啕大哭。
It was then that he would howl at the end of the telephone.
我们会有聆听和回应，等他情绪定下来以后，再给他专业的支持，对当前情况做一些分析，最后给予鼓励和肯定，强调他的责任感。
We will listen and respond. When he has settled down, we will give him professional support, make some analysis of the current situation, and finally give encouragement and affirmation, emphasizing his sense of responsibility.
感受到这份信念的鼓舞，会支持他更久一点。
Feeling inspired by this belief will support him a little longer.
这是整个工作的一个过程。
This is a whole process.
聆听、回应、澄清，是我们干预的前三个步骤，在这之后还有评估和判断。
Listening, responding, and clarifying are the first three steps of our intervention, followed by assessment and judgment.
图源视觉中国澄清指的是澄清他们出现的情况是情绪状态还是生理状态。
Source Vision Chinese clarification refers to the clarification of whether their situation is emotional or physical.
人在情绪激动状态中的讲述基本上没有什么顺序和逻辑，我们需要为他解释出现的原因。
There is little order or logic in a person's emotional state, and we need to explain to him why.
有一个人告诉我们，他每天反复量很多次的体温，每半小时量一次，都在36、37度左右，我问他，你看你多次测量的体温，目前都控制在37度以下，对吗？这些是正常的。
One of them told us that he took his temperature several times a day and measured it every half-hour, about 36 or 37 degrees. I asked him if you had taken your temperature many times and kept it below 37 degrees, right?
听到这些确认，他才会回过神来。
Hearing these affirmations, he would come to his senses.
大家普遍希望得到帮助的就是关于睡眠的改善。
The general hope for help is that it's about better sleep.
睡不着这种情况，首先要确认，睡不着的原因是心理还是生理的原因，是自身疾病还是疫情的原因，再对应地给予支持。
Can not sleep this situation, want to confirm above all, the reason that cannot sleep is psychology or physiology reason, be oneself disease or epidemic reason, give support again accordingly.
几天前，我们接到了一个老人的电话，说他总是睡不着。
A few days ago, we got a phone call from an old man who said he couldn't sleep at all.
咨询师在线教他做了一个渐进式肌肉放松，第二天他又打了热线来说，你昨天给我讲了（肌肉放松）所以我睡得特别好，你再帮我讲一讲，让我可以再睡着。
The consultant taught him to do a progressive muscle relaxation online, and the next day he called the hotline and said, You told me yesterday (muscle relaxation) so I slept really well, so you tell me more about it so that I can sleep again.
他是武汉一个60多岁的老人家，跟老伴两个人住在家里，刚刚做过心脏的手术，本身不能出门走动，又因为疫情被封闭了十几天，所以这一个月他都没有下过楼，焦虑到了极致，6天没办法睡觉了。
He is a 60-year-old Wuhan family, with his wife two people living at home, just had heart surgery, can not walk out of their own, and because the outbreak was closed for a decade, so he did not go downstairs this month, anxiety to the extreme, six days can not sleep.
我们确认之后，把渐进式肌肉放松的语音发给了他。
After we confirmed it, we sent him progressive muscle relaxation speech.
收到之后，他说，太感谢了，可能对于你们来说是很小的一件事情，但对于我来说太重要了。
'Thank you very much, 'he said after receiving it.' It may be a small thing for you, but it's too important for me.
这个有点超出我们的工作范畴了，我们一般会建议他自己去下载。
This is a bit out of our area of work, and we usually advise him to download it himself.
可是老人家告诉我们，他不会上网，我们就一步步教他。
But the old man told us he couldn't surf the Internet, so we taught him one step at a time.
除了量体温、睡不着，很多在家的人还会食欲不好。
Besides taking temperature and not sleeping, many people at home will have a bad appetite.
我打电话问过武汉当地的亲戚，他们都改成一天吃两顿，这是很普遍存在的状况。
I called my local relatives in Wuhan and they both ate twice a day, which is quite common.
其实这是好的现象，大家都在适应变化，身体和生活的节奏都在适应目前隔离的状态。
In fact, this is a good phenomenon, everyone is adapting to change, the body and the rhythm of life are adapting to the current isolation.
当身体没有那么多的运动和消耗，食物自然就要减少，不必把它想得太严重。
When the body doesn't exercise and consume so much, the food naturally diminishes, so don't take it too seriously.
最近几天，健康的求助者少了一些。
In recent days there have been fewer healthy sufferers.
本身就有精神类疾病，比如患有抑郁和焦虑症的人，他们开始频繁地求助了。
People with mental illnesses, such as depression and anxiety, start turning to them frequently.
有些患者以前吃过药好了，可是身体会记得这些感受和创伤，当与疫情相关的重大事情发生的时候，这些基础疾病会被重新牵连出来，被激活。
Some patients have taken drugs before, but the body remembers these feelings and traumas, and when something important happens with the outbreak, these underlying diseases are reconnected and activated.
他们也成为了易感人群，应该得到关注。
They have also become key populations that deserve attention.
目前为止，我们平台还没有接到过自杀这样的高危案子，但是我们接到过别的平台的求助。
So far, our platform has not received high-risk cases such as suicide, but we have received help from other platforms.
朋友圈里有人给我转来一个女孩的留言，说她焦虑到有自杀的想法。
Someone in the circle of friends sent me a message from a girl saying she was worried enough to commit suicide.
我们致电过去，女孩说，还好了，没事了。
We called and the girl said, It's okay. It's okay.
当时她可能跟家人在一起，所以很快挂断了这个电话。
She was probably with her family, so she hung up the phone quickly.
那种自杀的极端情绪是一时起来的。
The intensity of the suicidal emotion was transient.
她接到电话之后，为什么说够了，因为她知道自己的状态，得到了陌生人的关注，她得到这份关心就满足了。
When she got on the phone, why did she say enough, because she knew her state, got the attention of strangers, and she was satisfied with the concern.
心理援助的一句话，也许是10分钟，可能会改变一个人和一家人的命运。
A sentence of psychological support, perhaps 10 minutes, can change the fate of a person and a family.
还会有一些热线覆盖不到的人群，这需要媒体和政府扩大宣传和援助的力度，让有心理需求的人及时地得到支持。
There will also be groups of people who will not be reached by hotlines, which will require the media and the Government to scale up advocacy and assistance so that people with psychosocial needs can receive timely support.
但不要太依赖于心理援助，其他一些渠道也是可以去做到这些的。
But don't rely too much on psychological help, which other channels can do as well.
回家的路有千万条。
There are thousands of ways home.
在心理援助这方面，一定要实事求是，切莫夸大了这个热线的作用，我经常跟我们的同伴说，其实我们做不了什么，我们只能做一点点的事情。
In the area of psychological assistance, it is important to be realistic and not exaggerate the role of the hotline. I often tell our partners that we can do nothing but do a little.
跟我们能做的事情比起来，更重要的是我们不能做什么，要知道自己的有限。
What is more important than what we can do is what we can't do, what we have to know is limited.
知道这一点，那就不会感觉到无力。
When you know this, you don't feel powerless.
46号晚上得知了李文亮医生的情况，我们编发了一个图文，关键词就是活下来，因为针对感染的人群来讲，活下来已经是一个奢求了。
When we learned about Dr. Li Wenliang on the night of the 46th night, we compiled and distributed a picture and text. The key word is to live, because for the infected people, living is a luxury.
跟以往的危机干预相比，这次疫情发生得很急，所有事情发展的速度都太快了。
Compared to previous crisis interventions, the outbreak was urgent and everything was moving too fast.
同时它范围很广，波及的社会性效应更深。
At the same time, it has a wide range of social effects.
援助的困难其实不在心理工作者身上，如果说针对疫情本身的预警来得及时，事件本身可以有一个很好的支持和发展变化的话，大部分人都能很快调整自己的心情，不用心理工作者做太多的事情，需要援助的人群会缩到很小。
The difficulty of assistance does not really lie with the psychologist. If the event itself can be well supported and developed in time for the early warning of the outbreak itself, most people can quickly adjust their mood without having to do too much work by the psychological workers, and the number of people in need of assistance will shrink to a minimum.
一些高危案例，比如对医生、武汉人产生怨恨，不仅仅是心理上出现的问题。
Some high-risk cases, such as resentment against doctors and Wuhan people, are not just psychological problems.
这个事情的前端不是心理，而是事情本身，还要回到最前端的事件。
The front end of the matter is not psychology, but the matter itself, to return to the front-end events.
对于个体来讲，冲突、绝望和矛盾，从以前的远端到了他的眼前，平衡被打破了。
For the individual, conflict, despair, and conflict, from the distant past to his eyes, the balance is broken.
我们接到过类似的电话。
We've had similar calls.
解决这种怨恨，很难。
Resolving this resentment is difficult.
能做的事情只是安抚、理解、同情。
All that can be done is comfort, understanding and compassion.
心理援助只能起到安抚的作用，稳定个体阶段性的心理变化，但是效果不会持续很久，我们无法预知平衡哪一次又再次被打破。
Psychological assistance can only placate and stabilize individual phases of psychological change, but the effect does not last long, and we cannot predict when the balance will be broken again.
这种个体不能耐受的痛苦，不可以通过另外一个生命的启发，或者说是由心理的咨访关系推动他放下。
The unbearable pain of such an individual cannot be induced by another life, or by a psychological relationship of counseling.
这需要更大的力量，这背后藏着更宏大的社会问题。
This requires greater strength, which hides larger social problems.
其实对于不同的人群，我们最终的走向都是，接受。
In fact, for different groups of people, our ultimate direction is to accept.
所有人都必须慢慢接受这件事情的发生，都去面对它给每一个个体、每个家庭乃至社会带来的影响。
Everyone must slowly accept that this is happening and face the impact it has on every individual, every family and even society.
对于一些年轻人来讲，他在这个瞬间理解什么是自由、什么是健康、什么是亲情。
For some young people, it is a moment for them to understand what freedom is, what is health and what is kinship.
去寻找这个事件对他们每一个人产生的影响和意义所在。
Look for the impact and significance of the event for each of them.
我们都会痛，但面对这么多生命的痛，我们能做出一点什么来改善。
We all feel pain, but in the face of so much pain in life, we can do something about it.
（第一次）你给我打电话的时候，我在超市做采购。
When you called me, I was doing the shopping at the supermarket.
去超市之前，我和我妹妹一起给我父母送了一些东西。
Before we went to the supermarket, my sister and I sent some things to my parents.
我们把东西放在门口，他们拿进去，我们就下楼了，没有聊太多。
We left our stuff at the door, they took it in, and we went downstairs without much talking.
到超市去购物的时候，看到身边所有人的状态，我心中突然觉得很悲凉。
To the supermarket to go shopping, to see the state of everyone around me, I suddenly feel very sad.
那一刻，我站在那里流泪。
At that moment, I stood there in tears.
我看到他们捂得很严实，全副武装，在做各种各样能想得到的防护。
I saw that they were well protected, well armed, and doing all sorts of conceivable precautions.
比如把鞋套套在鞋子上，有的人穿上吃火锅的一次性围裙，所有去超市采购生活物资的人，都在拿自己可以拿得动的东西，往家里搬，年轻人也好，中老年人也好，因为不能开车，完全凭人力在路上拼命地搬运。
For example, if you put a shoe cover on your shoes, some people wear a disposable apron for a hot pot, and all the people who go to the supermarket to buy household goods are carrying things they can carry home, young and old, because they cannot drive and work hard on the road.
当时我觉得好心酸，怎么突然变成这样了，所有的生活全部改变了。
At that time I felt very sad, how suddenly became so, all life has changed.
小区的大门被用铁丝网封锁起来，只有一个门进出门量体温，做登记。
The gates of the neighbourhood are fenced off with barbed wire, and only one door enters or leaves the house to take temperature and register.
你甚至很感恩小区旁边的卖菜的小店能开，但你买东西还是要靠呼喊的，你要冲他喊你要什么菜，他再递过来给你。
You're even thankful that the grocery store next to the neighborhood is open, but you still have to go shopping by shouting at him about what you want, and he'll pass it to you.
因确诊3例患者，湖北一小区封锁，居民隔铁门买菜图源梨视频跟以前的变化太大了。
As a result of the diagnosis of 3 patients, Hubei a small block, residents across the Iron Gate to buy vegetables from pear video with the previous change is too big.
街上每个人看到对面有人来就绕开走了，不想和对方走在同一片空气当中。
Everyone in the street, when they saw someone coming opposite them, walked away, not wanting to walk in the same air with each other.
会心痛，心会很疼。
Will heartache, the heart can be very painful.
我同时也很清楚，其实我们所有人都在付一个代价。
I also know very well that we are all paying a price.
李文亮医生的去世体现了一种群体性的失望。
The death of Dr. Li Wenliang reflects a kind of mass disappointment.
调和群体情绪状态，不是任何个人的力量可以做到的，要有一个声音出来，恢复平衡，对他予以公正和公平的对待。
It is not within the power of any individual to reconcile the emotional state of a group. It is necessary to have a voice that restores balance and treats him fairly and fairly.
我希望6日这天能作为起点，能够有一个相对公平公允的声音来面对生命，来面对所有处在疫情当中的民众。
I hope the day of the 6th will be the starting point for a relatively fair voice to face life and all those in the midst of the epidemic.
那么也许从这一天开始，我们整个社会的心理状态会往好的方向走，它有可能成为一个拐点。
So maybe from this day on, our whole social psychology will go in the right direction, and it could become an inflection point.
今天（2月7日）我跟所有伙伴说，我们不接受采访，要静默一天。
Today (February 7) I told all my friends that we would not accept the interview and would observe a day of silence.
为现实中这么多条生命，李医生只是其中的一个代表。
For so many lives in reality, Dr. Lee is just one of them.
（哽咽）最近武汉一直是阴的天，城市安定得像没有人，只有偶尔传来的鸟叫。
Wuhan has been a cloudy day recently. The city is as quiet as nobody, except for the occasional barking of birds.
但今天不适合出太阳，只适合漫天大雪。
But today is not suitable for the sun, only suitable for heavy snow.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「在疫区，中年人没有地方可以哭」｜武汉心理咨询师的510通电话。
"Middle-aged people have no place to cry in affected areas," a 510 telephone call from a counselor in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「在疫区，中年人没有地方可以哭」｜武汉心理咨询师的510通电话";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "Middle-aged people have no place to cry in an infected area," & # 160; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "其实你可以哭的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; you could have cried.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
