武汉病人：以家庭为单位的患者越来越多，去殡仪馆也得排队 - 专栏 - 爱股票。
Wuhan patient: more and more patients as a family unit, to the funeral parlour also have to queue - column - love stocks.
首页。
Home page.
高手排行。
Rank of the best.
达人排行。
Talent ranks.
投顾排行。
Take care of yourself.
专栏榜单。
List of columns.
组合排行。
Ranking of groups.
申请入驻。
Application for Residence.
要闻。
Highlights.
行情中心。
The market center.
专栏。
Columns.
原创。
Original in nature.
关于我们。
About us.
媒体报道。
Media coverage.
关于我们。
About us.
招贤纳士。
Recruit wise men.
公司资质。
Qualifications of companies.
亿客科技。
Billion visitors technology.
中讯证研。
Zhongxin Certified Research.
证券牌照。
Securities licences.
免责声明。
Disclaimer.
APP下载。
APP Download.
爱股票。
Love stocks.
专业股市投资者社区。
Professional stock market investor community.
登录/注册。
Log in / register.
首页要闻正文详情。
Cover page for text details.
武汉病人：以家庭为单位的患者越来越多，去殡仪馆也得排队。
Wuhan patient: With the family as the unit more and more patients, to the funeral parlour also had to queue.
时间：2020-02-04 21:28来源：中国经营报阅读：3574910次。
Time: 2020-02-04 21: 28 Source: China Business Journal Reading: 3574910.
杨晨还在等通知。
Yang Chen is still waiting for the announcement.
他在等待“十号令”带给他以及他的家庭命运的转机，他是一位“武汉病人”的家属。
He is waiting for the "Ten Order" to bring him and his family a turning point, he is a "Wuhan patient" family.
让他有所期许的“十号令”，是2月2日发出的。
The "Ten Commandments" that had given him some hope were issued on February 2.
按照“十号令”的要求，自通告发布之日起，对全市经发热门诊诊断有肺炎症状的发热病人和新型冠状病毒肺炎病人的密切接触者，将由各区安排车辆分别送至区集中隔离观察点。
As required by the Tenth Order, from the day of the announcement, close contacts between fever patients diagnosed with pneumonia and patients with new coronavirus pneumonia in the fever clinics throughout the city will be arranged by the districts to send their respective vehicles to the district centralized quarantine observation points.
在这之前，和很多武汉病人的家庭一样，杨晨经历了漫长得近乎煎熬的等待。
Before that, Yang Chen, like many families of Wuhan patients, had gone through a long and agonizing wait.
在相当长的时间里，像他的家人一样的疑似病患，因为不能确诊，而被医院告知采用居家隔离的方式进行隔离。
For quite some time, suspected patients like his family were told to use isolation in their homes because they could not be diagnosed.
病症的反复与加剧，与武汉“封城”之后的交通管控相伴生，这些病患在寻找医院收治的路上，经历着奔波与煎熬。
The recurrence and aggravation of the disease was accompanied by traffic control after Wuhan "closed city," these patients in the search for hospital treatment, experienced the torment.
有些人，在这条路上，就已阴阳两隔。
Some people, on this road, are separated by Yin and Yang.
而九省通衢的大武汉，此刻也是一个病人。
Wuhan, which has thoroughfare of nine provinces, is also a patient at the moment.
疫情笼罩之下，这座反复上演人生悲欢的城市，其基本城市功能的维系，与留在这座城市中的人们的命运高度关联。
Beneath the epidemic, the survival of the city's basic urban functions, a city reproducing its woes, is highly correlated with the fate of those who remain in the city.
需要治愈的，既是病患，也是武汉，以及与这座城市的命运维系在一起的那些城中的人们。
What needs to be healed is not only the sick, but also the people in Wuhan, and the cities that are bound up with the city's destiny.
改观和转机正在越来越靠近。
Change and turnaround are coming closer and closer.
2月3日晚上，火神山医院收治了第一批新型冠状病毒肺炎病人。
On the night of February 3, the first patients with coronavirus pneumonia were admitted to Mount Fukuyama Hospital.
火神山医院的“兄弟”也即将于2月6日正式收治病人。
The "brothers" of the Mount Huo hospital are also due to be officially admitted on February 6.
尽管杨晨被社区医院告知继续等待，没有关于入院治疗床位的新消息，但没人可以否认，解决“收治”难的问题，武汉正在和时间赛跑。
Although Yang Chen was told by the community hospital to wait, there was no new information about hospital beds, but no one can deny that Wuhan is in a race against time to solve the problem.
2月3日，中央政治局常委会再次召开会议，在习总书记的主持下，这是约半个月内，中央政治局常委会已经第二次开会研究部署加强疫情防控工作。
On February 3, the Standing Committee of the Politburo met again, under the chairmanship of General Secretary Xi, for the second time in about half a month.
会议指出，要针对这次疫情应对中暴露出来的短板和不足，健全国家应急管理体系，提高处理急难险重任务能力。
The meeting pointed out that in response to the epidemic exposed the shortcomings and shortcomings, improve the national emergency management system, improve the ability to deal with urgent and dangerous tasks.
医治武汉病人，所有人都在和时间赛跑。
All the patients in Wuhan are in a race against time.
求解收治难2月2日上午，经过9天日夜酣战，火神山医院正式完工并交付使用，可以提供1000张床位，军队抽调的1400名医护人员已经到位，2月3日晚上，火神山医院住进了第一批新型冠状病毒肺炎病人。
On February 2 morning, after nine days of intensive battle, the Fosen Mountain Hospital was formally completed and put into use, providing 1,000 beds. The 1,400 medical personnel deployed by the army were in place. On the night of February 3, the first patients with coronavirus pneumonia were admitted to the hospital.
2月3日下午，记者探访已经挂牌的武汉火神山医院，医院内外分外紧张、忙碌，各班人马正在火力全开准备收治第一批病人。
On the afternoon of February 3, the reporter visited Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, which had been listed. The hospital was very tense and busy inside and outside.
火神山医院的“兄弟”雷神山医院也即将于2月6日正式收治病人，可以提供1500张床位。
Lui Shenshan Hospital, the "brother" of Mount Fukuyama Hospital, is also due to officially admit patients on February 6, offering 1,500 beds.
而在火神山医院完工交付使用的同一天，要求对所有疑似病患集中隔离的十号令发出。
On the same day that the hospital was completed and commissioned, a request was issued for all suspected patients to be quarantined.
武汉疫情，转机乍现。
Wuhan epidemic situation, a turning point.
在这之前，这座城市中的很多人和家庭，经历了漫长的煎熬，与生死的考验。
Before that, many people and families in the city had endured a long ordeal, a test of life and death.
火神山医院内一景 摄影/本报记者宋文娟打120，排队；打社区电话，排队；找“武汉微邻里”，这个平台于1月25日瘫痪。
Song Wenjuan, a reporter of the Huo Shenshan Hospital, is standing in line at 120, making community phone calls and queuing up to find the "Wuhan micro-neighborhood," which collapsed on January 25.
在“漫长”的等待中，武汉以家庭为单位的患者越来越多，有人熬到了有空床位的这一天，这时，他的家属已经一个、两个被感染，甚至全家被感染，还得继续寻找床位。
In the "long" waiting period, Wuhan as a family unit more and more patients, someone boil down to the day when his family has one or two infected, or even the entire family infected, still have to continue to search for beds.
有人等到床位时，已成重症，在大年初一于ICU病房去世。
When someone waits for bed, already became serious illness, died in ICU ward on New Year's Day.
2月2日上午，一位患者家属告诉《中国经营报》记者：“89岁的奶奶等不及，倒在医院走廊等待的队伍里，在大年初二离世，连去殡仪馆也得排队，遗体至今仍被停放在医院的太平间。
On the morning of February 2, a patient's family told China Business Daily: "The 89-year-old grandmother couldn't wait to fall into the waiting line in the hospital hallway. She died on the second day of the New Year.
”2月1日，躺在医院发热门诊走廊里的病人 摄影/本报记者宋文娟刀女士为叔叔一家的遭遇伤心得已起不来床。
On February 1, the patient was lying in the hospital's hot out-patient corridor. "Ms. Song Wenjuan, a reporter, was too sad to get up for her uncle's family.
好不容易她77岁的叔叔于1月31日住进了医院，46岁的堂弟也病情病急，高烧不退，呼吸困难。
Her 77-year-old uncle was admitted to the hospital on January 31, and her 46-year-old cousin is also in a critical condition with a high fever and breathing difficulties.
“叔叔已经确诊是新冠肺炎，堂弟于2月1日也被医院确诊，现在没有床位可收呀。
"My uncle has been diagnosed with pneumonia, and my cousin was confirmed by the hospital on February 1.
”刀女士的叔叔家住武汉市白沙洲观澜小区，在武汉对新冠肺炎进行大面积、高频次防控之前，他做了一个心脏支架手术。
Ms. Dao's uncle, who lives in the Peshao Guanlan district of Wuhan, had a heart stent operation before Wuhan carried out extensive, high-frequency secondary control of the disease.
“估计是去医院复诊的过程中感染的。
"It was probably picked up during a revisit to the hospital.
”刀女士回忆。
"Ms. Dao recalled.
1月23日，叔叔开始出现身体特别不适，24日去武昌医院做CT与抽血检查，发现双肺已感染，病情危急，医院开了入院证，然而没有病床。
On January 23, uncle began to develop special discomfort, 24 went to Wuchang Hospital for CT and blood tests, found that the two lungs have been infected, the disease is critical, the hospital issued admission cards, but there are no beds.
打120，排队；打社区电话，排队；找“武汉微邻里”，这个平台于1月25日瘫痪。
Call 120, line up, make community phone calls, line up, find Wuhan Micro Neighbourhood, which collapsed on January 25.
此时照顾叔叔的是刀女士的堂弟，也就是患者的儿子，刀女士则帮助找病床、打电话以及向外界求助。
At this time, the uncle is looking after the cousin, that is, the son of the patient, Ms. Dao to help find beds, phone calls and external help.
“我们狂打电话，社区还有120、市长热线，1月31日，叔叔终于住进了武昌天佑医院，可是我的堂弟在照顾我叔叔的过程中被感染了，连续几天高烧，2月1日被医院确诊（指确诊为新冠肺炎），现在到处找床位。
"We made wild phone calls, the community has 120, the mayor's hotline, my uncle finally moved into Wuchang Tianyou Hospital on January 31, but my cousin was infected while taking care of my uncle, had a high fever for several days, was confirmed in hospital on February 1 and is now looking for beds everywhere.
”刀女士几乎痛哭。
"The lady almost cried.
由于堂弟被感染，担心两位病人无人照顾，他的姐姐赶回照顾，现在他的姐姐本人也发烧了。
His sister rushed back to care for his cousin, who was infected and feared that the two patients would be left unattended, and now his sister herself has a fever.
“现在叔叔家，只有婶婶照顾他们，婶婶也是70多岁了，这一家人怎么办哪？”刀女士已不想再讲下去，希望哪里有空病房的医院能早日救治他们。
"Now uncle, only aunt to take care of them, aunt is also 70 years old, how to do this family?" Ms. Dao did not want to go on, hope that where the free ward of the hospital can treat them as soon as possible.
他还在等待，但有的家庭，已经无法等待。
He is still waiting, but there are families who cannot wait.
“爸爸和叔叔如今在奶奶的老房子里住着，隔离，他们还没有发烧。
"Daddy and Uncle are now living in Grandma's old house, isolated, and they don't have a fever yet.
”2月2日上午，小朱对记者说，奶奶的遗体如今仍停放在医院的太平间，还没有转到殡仪馆。
On the morning of February 2, Zhu told reporters that Grandma's body was still in the hospital morgue and had not been transferred to the funeral home.
殡仪馆也在排队。
Funerals are queuing up, too.
大学三年级的小朱正在感冒。
Xiao Zhu, a junior in college, is catching a cold.
“家里还有些吃的，如果没有发烧，我就暂时不跟爸爸说。
"There's some food in the house, and if I don't have a fever, I won't talk to Dad for the time being.
”小朱的奶奶于1月26日，大年初二这一天去世，小朱不想让爸爸再担心自己。
Xiao Zhu's grandmother died on January 26, the second day of the Lunar New Year, and Zhu did not want his father to worry about himself any more.
小朱的奶奶89岁，因肺部感染呼吸严重困难，终于在1月24日等来社区安排的接送车送至医院，还没来得及确诊，更没有等到一张病床，她的奶奶就于26日在汉口医院的走廊里去世了。
Xiao Zhu's grandmother, 89 years old, was in severe respiratory distress due to a lung infection. On January 24, her grandmother died in the hallway of Hankou Hospital before she could be diagnosed and a bed waiting for her.
“爸爸和叔叔一直在照顾奶奶，爸爸65岁了，我也蛮担心他。
"Daddy and Uncle have been taking care of Grandma. Dad is 65 and I was worried about him, too.
”数天前，小朱在接受本报记者采访时说。
Zhu told reporters a few days ago.
她很害怕，因为母亲早前已去世（与新冠肺炎无关），她非常担心再失去亲人。
She was afraid because her mother had passed away earlier and she was very worried about losing someone else.
“爸爸和叔叔如今在奶奶的老房子里住着，隔离，他们还没有发烧。
"Daddy and Uncle are now living in Grandma's old house, isolated, and they don't have a fever yet.
”2月2日，小朱对记者说。
"Zhu told reporters on February 2.
小朱想出门买点感冒药，可是她住的地方有点特殊，“我对面就是汉口火车站，旁边800米是华南海鲜批发市场，这一块是重灾区，周围没有药店开门”。
Zhu wanted to go out to buy some cold medicine, but she lived in a special place, "I am opposite Hankou Railway Station, 800 meters next to the South China Seafood Wholesale Market.
刘小煊则在家已经抗了8天，此时她每天只能清醒4个小时左右。
Liu Xiaoxuan, who has been at home for eight days, can only wake up for about four hours a day.
“就是很累很累，想画个画缓解一下都不能，5分钟就累着了，累了只好昏睡。
"It is very tired, want to draw a picture to ease a little can not, 5 minutes tired, tired had to sleep.
”此时，她在武昌自己家中，爸爸正在武昌西区医院住院，呼吸困难的症状缓解了一些；妈妈有好转，在汉口娘家住处隔离，仍在咳嗽。
At this point, she was at her home in Wuchang, where her father was hospitalized at Wuchang West Hospital, and the symptoms of dyspnea eased somewhat.
一直在小煊身边支撑这个家庭所有后勤工作的是她的老公，目前已开始低烧。
Her husband, who had been supporting the family at Little Huxuan, was now suffering from a low fever.
最初生病的是小煊的妈妈，她的父亲在照顾的过程中开始咳嗽，一开始并不发烧，不过咳嗽转为呼吸困难。
The mother, who was initially ill, began coughing while taking care of her, and did not have a fever at first, but coughed to dyspnea.
在做了CT、验了血之后，她的父母均被医院医生口头确诊为新冠肺炎，并先后出现浑身无力、呼吸困难、无法行动。
After a CT and blood test, her parents were verbally diagnosed as New Crown Pneumonia by a hospital doctor, and they developed physical weakness, dyspnea and loss of mobility.
在如此情况下，小煊并没有灰心，她做了一个分工，老公负责家庭消毒、饮食供应，她负责为父母去医院就医，如找医院、挂号、排队。
Under these circumstances, Little Huxuan did not lose heart, she made a division of labor, husband in charge of disinfection, food supply, she was responsible for parents to go to the hospital, such as hospital, registration, queuing.
为了减少父母暴露在医院这个交叉感染环境的时间，小煊通常是自己排队，估算时间差不多了再把父亲或母亲接过来。
To reduce the amount of time parents spend in hospital-related cross-infections, Huxuan often queues up on her own and estimates the time it takes to take over the father or mother.
1月25日，小煊曾接受本报记者采访，那时，虽然很难很累，但母亲在他们全家的共同努力下，病情好转，这让小煊不失信心。
Little Huxuan was interviewed by the newspaper reporter on January 25, and although it was hard to be tired, her mother's condition improved thanks to the concerted efforts of her family.
“不仅得保证患者的营养，家属也得注意吃饱，保持体力，这样才能与病毒战斗。
"Not only must the sufferer's nutrition, the family also must pay attention to eat fully, maintains the physical strength, in order to combat the virus.
”小煊对记者说。
"Little Huxuan told reporters.
她同时还将一些护理心得在网络上分享，以鼓励更多患者与家属们。
She also shared some of her nursing tips online to encourage more patients and family members.
不过1月26日起，小煊身体出状况，此后连续多日发烧，那时她依然在鼓励自己，吃药、吃饭，保持体力，一定能好起来，她也很纠结，不想去医院，不想被交叉感染。
On January 26, however, Little Huanxuan became physically ill and went on feverish for days after that. She was still encouraging herself, taking medicine, eating, keeping up, getting well. She was also very upset and did not want to go to the hospital and get cross-infected.
2月2日，已经在家连续抗病的小煊，虽然仍在坚持吃药，但明显感觉肺部不舒服。
On February 2, Huxuan, who had been fighting disease in her home, apparently felt sick in her lungs, although she continued to take her medicine.
“就是深呼吸很痛苦，但小呼吸没问题。
"It's painful to breathe deeply, but it's OK to take a small breath.
”她对记者说。
'she said to the reporter.
她正在为去看医生准备身份证。
She is preparing an identity card for the doctor.
“身份证在汉口娘家，妈妈没办法送过来，我老公也不能上去拿， 爸爸妈妈就是在那里生病的。
"Identity card in Hankou mother's house, mother can not send over, my husband can not go up to pick up, father and mother are there sick.
”对于朋友的建议，她也在尝试，如中药、如按摩一些穴位，但一些想法让她不再坚持了。
She's also experimenting with advice from friends, such as Chinese medicine, such as massaging some points, but some ideas have stopped her from sticking.
“我现在听我老公的。
"I'm listening to my husband now.
”她说，“我生病，也许是在照顾父母的过程中被感染的，之前没事，可能身体好是一方面原因，但有可能是因为病毒早已潜伏，没有表现出来而已。
"I was sick, maybe I got infected while taking care of my parents, I was okay before, maybe I was fine, partly because the virus was latent, but maybe it didn't show up," she said.
我现在要提醒家属们，在照顾患者的过程中不要因为身体暂时没事而大意，哪怕做了必要的防护，该检查还是尽早做个检查。
I would now like to remind the family, in the process of caring for the patient not to be careless, even if the necessary protection, the check-up as early as possible.
”她说，现在最想做的事不是吃药不是找针，而是去医院得到医生的明确诊断。
"The biggest thing I want to do now is not to take medicine or look for a needle, but to go to the hospital and get a definite diagnosis," she said.
和时间赛跑疑似病患的集中隔离以及确诊病患的收治，都将改变这些家庭的命运。
Centralized isolation of patients suspected of racing against time and admission of diagnosed patients will change the fate of these families.
2月2日晚间，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部召开专题调度会议，对确诊、疑似、无法明确排除新型肺炎的发热患者和确诊患者的密切接触者等四类人群强制实行集中隔离，通过征用一批民营医院、酒店、体育馆等场所有效控制传染源。
During the night of February 2, the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infection in Wuhan City held a special dispatching meeting to impose concentrated isolation on four groups of people: fever patients diagnosed, suspected, unable to definitively exclude the new coronavirus infection and close contacts with confirmed patients.
目前武汉已在此前基础上再征用包括武汉民生耳鼻喉医院等民营连锁专科医院在内的27家医疗机构，可提供床位2183张，用于收治首次检测结果为阴性的疑似病例。
Wuhan has requisitioned 27 medical institutions, including private-run hospitals such as Wuhan Minsheng Otolaryngology Hospital, which can provide 2,183 beds for treating suspected cases with negative first-time test results.
2月3日晚，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部视频调度会透露，武汉国际会展中心等将改造成为3所“方舱医院”，共计设立3400张床位。
Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center will be transformed into three "square-cabin hospitals," with 3,400 beds, according to a video by Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center.
2月3日下午1点，《中国经营报》记者联系到此前求助的患者家属杨晨询问进展。
February 3 at 1 p.m., the China Business Daily reporter contacted the previous help of the patient's family Yang Chen asked about the progress.
杨晨告诉记者：“社区跟我提到过十号令，说是会根据病情严重程度进行相关的隔离诊治，但是具体落实方面，只是叫我等待。
Yang Chen told reporters: "The community told me 10 orders, said that the severity of the disease will be the relevant isolation treatment, but the specific implementation of the specific, I just call to wait.
”武汉市硚口区的一位社区工作者告知记者，现在武汉这个局面主要是床位紧张带来的，我们也没有办法，我们听政府安排。
Wuhan, a community worker in the city of Zhengkou, told reporters that the situation in Wuhan is mainly caused by the shortage of beds, and we have no choice but to listen to the government.
早在1月26日，杨晨联系到本报记者，并告知爷爷和父亲均是此次新型冠状病毒肺炎的疑似患者，但想尽办法均没能住上院。
As early as January 26, Yang Chen contacted our reporter, and told Grandpa and his father are suspected of the new coronavirus pneumonia, but did everything possible to live in the upper house.
“所属的定点医院告诉我们床位已满，无法收治，让我们联系社区上报。
"Our designated hospital told us our beds were full and we couldn't take care of them. Let's contact the community to report.
然而，社区又让我们直接去定点医院就诊。
However, the community asked us to go directly to the designated hospital.
如此一来便成了死循环。
This is a vicious circle.
”杨晨告知记者：“由于家住在汉口硚口区，距离华南海鲜市场比较近。
Yang Chen told reporters: "As a result of the home in Hankou Zhangkou District, near the South China seafood market.
每年春节前，家人都会来到这里购买海鲜。
Every year before the Spring Festival, family members come here to buy seafood.
今年爷爷也照例去买过海鲜，可能因此感染了这个病毒。
This year, Grandpa went shopping for seafood as usual, and he may have contracted the virus.
”杨晨提到，由于爷爷没有办法得到确诊，而全家人也无法作为密切接触者进行隔离。
As Grandpa couldn't get a diagnosis and the family couldn't isolate themselves as close contacts, Yang said.
武汉人田晓灵与杨晨有着一样的处境。
Wuhan Tian Xiaoling and Yang Chen have the same situation.
1月30日，田晓灵在社交平台发起求助：“本人一直在上海，被拦在外边，通过亲戚才知道母亲被感染了新型冠状病毒肺炎，父亲开始体力不支。
On January 30, Tian launched a social networking platform for help: "I have been in Shanghai, was stopped outside, only through relatives know that my mother was infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia, the father began physical support.
他们年纪都五六十岁了，到现在还没有得到有效救治。
They are all fifty or sixty years old and have not yet been effectively treated.
”2月3日下午，记者联系到田晓灵，她告知记者，母亲还没有顺利住院得到治疗。
On the afternoon of February 3, Ms. Tian was contacted and told reporters that her mother had not yet been hospitalized properly.
他们还在等待。
They're still waiting.
十号令，正在和时间赛跑。
Ten orders. We're in a race against time.
解决医护保障在武汉病人当中，有一批“特殊”的病人，他们是医生，在救治病患的过程中被传染，在任何一次重大的公共卫生事件中，医护人员的保障问题，都是最重要的环节。
Solving the Medical Care Guarantee Among Wuhan patients, there is a group of "special" patients, they are doctors, the treatment of patients in the process of infection, in any major public health event, the protection of health-care personnel is the most important link.
17年前的非典如此，现在的疫情仍是如此。
That was true of SARS 17 years ago, and it is still true today.
政府在寻求解决这个问题的答案。
The government is looking for an answer to the problem.
其路径无外乎两条，合理安排医护人员的工作强度，以及配属足够充分、符合标准的医疗和防护物资。
There are no more than two paths through which the work intensity of medical staff is rationalized and adequate medical and protective materials are provided.
截至2月2日20时，共有57支医疗队、6775名医疗队员分配至武汉市27家定点医疗机构。
As at 2000 hours on February 2, 57 medical teams and 6,775 medical personnel had been assigned to 27 designated medical institutions in Wuhan.
来自北京的、对口支援同济医院中法分院工作的王医生对本报记者介绍：“新建病房一开张就源源不断地有重病人入住，病人非常多，病人数就源源不断地增长。
"Since the opening of the new wards, there has been a steady flow of seriously ill patients, with the number of patients constantly increasing," Wang, a doctor working in the law division of Tongji Hospital in Beijing, told reporters.
”“我们一个班6小时，穿上防护服，在病房都不能吃饭喝水，需要穿戴纸尿裤来解决内急。
"We were six hours in a class, wearing protective clothing, unable to eat or drink in the ward, and had to wear diapers to deal with emergencies.
穿戴纸尿裤也是为了方便离开医院全身上下衣服能够全部销毁防止传染。
Wearing diaper pants is also to facilitate leaving the hospital clothes can be completely destroyed to prevent infection.
”王医生说。
'said Doctor Wang.
“结束工作后大家每个人的内衬衣服全都湿透了，为了防止感染病房里都不能开中央空调，武汉这边也没有暖气，脱防护服后都特别冷，也没有条件在医院洗澡。
"Everyone's linings were soaked to the skin after work, and in order to prevent infection from opening the central air-conditioner in the ward, there was no heating on the Wuhan side, it was particularly cold after taking off the protective clothing, and there was no condition for bathing in the hospital.
我们为了减少感染风险，想一些土办法如用垃圾袋和胶布自制鞋套。
In order to reduce the risk of infection, we think of some home-made methods such as using garbage bags and plastic sheeting.
”王医生称。
'said Doctor Wang.
但是，在这一切转机乍现之前，仍然有不少医护人员，在疫情诊治、治疗的过程中被感染。
However, before all these changes, there are still many health care workers, in the course of diagnosis, treatment and infection.
田丽雯是武汉市中心医院某病区隔离病房的护士长。
Tian Liwen is the head nurse of an isolated ward in Wuhan Central Hospital.
其在接受《中国经营报》记者采访时表示，一线很艰苦，大家都是拼着责任心在工作。
'It's a tough line, 'he said in an interview with the China Business Daily.' Everyone is working hard on responsibility. '
病房主要是在收治疑似或者已经确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎的患者。
Ward is mainly in the treatment of suspected or confirmed patients with new coronavirus pneumonia.
田丽雯说：“我们医院大批医护倒了，我们现在是外科医生和护士在治疗呼吸内科疾病的病人。
Tian Liwen said: "Our hospital collapsed and we are now surgeons and nurses treating patients with respiratory illnesses.
”她介绍：“整个医院现在非常饱和，我们的工作量也是饱和的，床位数也是饱和的。
"The hospital is very full now, our workload is saturated and the number of beds is saturated," she said.
其实按照规范流程来说，周围同事如果有确诊的，我们有过密切接触的医务人员都要去隔离观察14天，但是现在医院缺少医护人员，像我们这种没有感染、发病的，做CT检查目前还是好的，就没有去隔离，还要坚守在一线。
In fact, according to the standard procedure, if colleagues around us have confirmed, we have close contact with the medical staff to observe 14 days, but the hospital is short of medical personnel, such as we do not have infection, morbidity, CT screening is still good, there is no isolation, but adhere to the line.
”“医院倒了一批护士，还有一批护士请假休息了。
"" The hospital has filled in a number of nurses and a number of nurses have gone on leave.
所以现在没有办法，到时候如果后续的支援力量来轮换，我们很可能就会一直坚持下去。
So there's nothing we can do now, and if follow-on reinforcements rotate, we'll probably stick to it.
”田丽雯告诉记者，大家最焦虑的其实就是这个问题，“我们临床科室的护士每天都问我：护士长，什么时候有人可以来换班？”“我们有四五个同事先后都已经感染、然后确诊了，按道理来说，我们上个星期就应该隔离，但就目前的状况，好像真的没有人能够来换他们，我们也都还得坚持上班。
"Our clinical nurses asked me every day," When can someone change shifts? "" We had four or five colleagues who were infected and then diagnosed, and logically we should have been quarantined last week, but as things stood, it was as if no one could replace them and we all had to go to work.
”田丽雯无奈地表示，“医护人员如果出现了发烧等症状，我们也要拍肺部的CT，然后做核酸检测，确诊了的话，就需要住院隔离治疗，我们院里的医护人员住院治疗现在都能够保证。
"When medical staff had a fever and other symptoms, we had to take a CT scan of the lungs and do a nucleic acid test," Tian said helplessly.
”据了解，目前武汉市中心医院已接管武汉市汉口医院，从外科等科室紧急抽调了一些医务人员去支援。
"It is understood that Wuhan Central Hospital has taken over Hankou Hospital in Wuhan City and dispatched some medical staff from surgical and other departments to support the hospital.
“现在病人量太大，外地的医生护士团队也来了，但还是远远不够，病人都救治不过来。
"There are too many patients now and a team of doctors and nurses from other places has arrived, but it's still not enough and the patients can't get it.
”据田丽雯介绍，现在医生是4个小时换一班，护士人数不够，要6个小时换班。
Now doctors change every four hours and there are not enough nurses to cover the six-hour shift, Tian said.
“比如我是从上午8点到下午2点，这6个小时不吃不喝，不上厕所。
"For example, I didn't eat, drink or use the toilet for six hours, from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
”对于接诊病人的流程，田丽雯告诉记者，病人接诊都是按照规范程序来接收和治疗。
As for the procedure for receiving patients, Tian told reporters that patient visits were handled according to standard procedures.
除普通病人来看发热门诊外，通常现在是所在的社区医院先做筛选，然后发现有问题比如发烧严重的，按程序送到指定的发热医院门诊，门诊医生会根据筛选标准确定是否收治，然后入院之后都会做核酸检测。
In addition to visits to the fever clinic by ordinary patients, it is usually the local community hospital that screens first and then detects a problem, such as a severe fever, which is routinely referred to a designated fever clinic, where the clinician determines admission on the basis of screening criteria, followed by a nucleic acid test after admission.
对于门诊量的变化，田丽雯表示，这个不好直观对比。
Regarding the outpatient quantity change, Tian Liwen expresses, this is not easy to visualize contrast.
比如以前我们综合医院，所有的病种都有收治，但现在我们医院的一些病区完全只收治疑似或确诊的病人。
For example, before our general hospital, all kinds of diseases are admitted, but now some of our hospital areas only treat suspected or diagnosed patients.
“目前都还好，没有什么特别的情况，就是防护物资大家每天都会很紧缺，医院也在一直筹备，基本能满足，至少每天上班都有，只是说有时候质量好一点，有时候质量差一点。
"Nothing special is going on at the moment. We're running out of supplies every day, hospitals are getting ready and basically satisfying, at least every day, just a little better quality, sometimes a little bit worse.
”武汉市金银潭医院作为武汉传染病防治专业医院，最早接收确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎患者，一线医护人员坚守的时间也最长，目前只收治确诊病例。
"As the Wuhan specialized hospital for the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan was the first to receive the newly diagnosed coronavirus pneumonia patients.
武汉市金银潭医院一位不愿具名的护士告诉记者，重症监护病房一个班8人，发了40件防护服。
An anonymous nurse at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital told reporters that the intensive care unit had eight staff members and issued 40 protective suits.
相关病例的收治入院和确诊都是医生安排，护士对具体情况不太清楚。
Hospitalization and diagnosis of related cases are arranged by doctors, and nurses are not clear about the circumstances.
“现在基本都是由患者所在社区居委会和社区医院安排一些疑似患者转诊，但很多社区执行不到位。
"Most of the referrals are now made by the communities where the patients live and by the community hospitals, but many communities do not implement them properly.
”据武汉市金银潭医院一位受感染的护士家属介绍，现在还没有离开重症监护室，说话也不太方便。
"According to a family member of an infected nurse at Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, he has not left the intensive care unit and spoken inconveniently.
在该家属沟通下，该护士婉拒了采访。
Following communication with the family, the nurse declined to be interviewed.
2月2日上午，华中科技大学附属协和医院第二批共6名被感染的医护人员集中出院。
On the morning of February 2, a second batch of 6 infected medical personnel were discharged from the Concorde Hospital, an affiliate of HUST.
据央视网报道，这6名被感染的医护人员经过治疗后，临床症状得到有效控制，经专家组讨论符合出院标准。
According to CCTV, the six infected health-care workers after treatment, clinical symptoms were effectively controlled, after expert group discussions to meet the criteria for discharge.
据了解，截至目前协和医院15名被感染的医务人员中已累计有9人治愈出院，尚有6人还在隔离治疗。
It is understood that, to date, 9 out of 15 infected medical personnel at Concorde Hospital have been cured and discharged, while 6 are still being treated in isolation.
记者辗转联系上了协和医院尚在隔离治疗的医务人员刘翔。
The reporter reached out to Liu Xiang, a medical worker at Concorde Hospital who was still being treated in isolation.
据其介绍，目前身体状况都还好。
According to his introduction, he is in good health.
“还在等着做最后一次核酸检测，阴性就可以出院了。
"I'm still waiting for my final nucleic acid test and I'm ready to leave the hospital negative.
”对于具体治疗过程等信息，该医护人员表示：“有纪律不能接受采访。
"There is no discipline to be interviewed," the paramedics said, referring to specific treatment procedures.
”1月25日，字节跳动宣布向中国红十字基金会捐赠2亿元人民币，设立“中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金”，为抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情而确诊感染的一线医务工作者提供资助。
On January 25, byte beating announced a donation of 200 million yuan to the China Red Cross Foundation, setting up the China Red Cross Foundation's Humanitarian Aid Fund for Byte Beating Medical Workers to provide financial aid to front-line medical workers diagnosed with pneumonia in the wake of the new coronavirus infection.
《中国经营报》记者梳理发现，截止到2月2日，该基金共公布6批、57名受助者。
As of February 2, the fund had announced six batches of 57 grantees, according to a comb published by China Business Daily.
确诊感染的医护人员中大多数来自武汉市金银潭医院、协和医院、中南医院等医疗单位。
Most of the doctors and nurses with confirmed infection came from the gold and silver pool hospital, concorde hospital, south hospital and so on.
其中，武汉协和医院共有22名感染新冠肺炎的医生和护士获得资助，武汉市红十字会医院有7名确诊医护人员获资助，同济医院和中南医院分别有6名确诊医护人员获资助，武汉市汉阳医院共有5名确诊医护人员获资助。
Among them, 22 doctors and nurses from Wuhan Concord Hospital received financial assistance, seven from Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, six from Tongji Hospital and six from Zhongnan Hospital, and five from Han Yang Hospital in Wuhan were funded.
攻坚医疗瓶颈？“收治难”“医患感染”的另一面，是疫情暴发以来，武汉医疗资源面临的极限压力。
The other side of the medical bottleneck is the extreme pressure on medical resources in Wuhan since the outbreak.
2月1日，《中国经营报》记者探访位于“同济急救中心”一楼的发热门诊。
Feb. 1, the China Business Daily reporters visited the fever clinic on the first floor of the Tongji Emergency Centre.
门诊大厅坐满了前来输液、吸氧的患者，咳嗽声此起彼伏。
Out-patient hall filled with patients who came to infusion, oxygen, cough repeatedly.
由于安排不上床位，不少患者自带折叠床，在过道接受吸氧治疗。
Due to the unavailability of beds, many patients bring their own folding beds and receive oxygen therapy in the hallway.
这之后一天，火神山医院完工，十号令发出，又过了一天，火神山医院开始接收病人。
One day after that, the Fire Goddess Mountain Hospital was finished. Ten orders were issued. Another day later, the Fire Goddess Hospital began to receive patients.
这对于武汉而言，几乎是以空间，换取时间。
For Wuhan, this is almost space, in exchange for time.
而在这之前，面对疫情，武汉市的医疗医院早已达到极限。
But before that, faced with the epidemic, Wuhan City's medical hospital has reached the limit.
“每天同济医院病人都很多，人流量很大。
"Every day Tongji hospital patients are many, a large flow of people.
”一位正在同济医院就诊的患者告诉记者。
A patient at Tongji Hospital told reporters.
“我们动员了所有的医生都投入到一线来，除了内科医生、传染病医生，包括外科医生、麻醉科医生也统统进行培训，让他们都投入到一线来。
"We've got all the doctors on the front line and all the doctors except the physicians, the infectious doctors, the surgeons, the anaesthetists, all of them on the front line.
”同济医院院长王伟曾介绍。
"Tongji hospital director Wang Wei introduced.
尽管如此，仍难以满足人满为患的发热门诊需求。
Despite this, it is still difficult to meet the demand for fever clinics.
“这里很容易交叉感染，目前我和母亲在同济医院附近租房子住，每天去打点滴，打完了就回来。
"It's easy to get cross-infection. My mother and I now rent a house near Tongji Hospital and come back every day.
基本上打针的时候，我们也拿到外面打，不过医院里排队时间很长，排队的时间也是我们在医院待得最长的时间。
Basically, we had to go outside for shots, but there was a long queue in the hospital, and it was the longest time we stayed in the hospital.
”一位患者对记者说道。
"a patient told reporters.
杨晨一家也是被迫选择在家自行隔离。
The Yang Chen family is also forced to choose to isolate themselves at home.
早在1月26日，他告诉记者，家中并没有隔离病人的环境。
As early as 26 January, he told reporters that there was no isolation in the home.
“两个房间，两个患者，五口人，你说我们怎么隔离？”杨晨直言他的担忧：“我们家里没有隔离的环境，我也不知道什么时候会被传染。
"Two rooms, two patients, five people, how do you think we can isolate each other?" Yang Chen bluntly said of his concern: "We don't have an isolated environment in our house, and I don't know when it will infect us.
我在家照顾患病的家人，还需要出去买菜，无形中就可能导致更多的人受到病毒的威胁。
I was at home looking after sick family members and needed to go out to buy food, which could lead to more people being threatened by the virus.
”2月3日下午，杨晨再度接受记者采访时，声音有些无力：“我只知道，昨儿我和奶奶去医院，已经诊断出肺部发炎。
Yang Chen, speaking to reporters again on the afternoon of February 3, said in a feeble voice: "All I know is that Grandma and I went to the hospital last night and diagnosed lung inflammation.
爷爷已经病危了，还没能做上核酸检测。
Grandpa was critically ill and had not yet been tested for nucleic acid.
”身在上海的田晓灵则显得更为不安，两位老人自行隔离在家，无人照料。
Tian Xiaoling, who is in Shanghai, is even more unsettled, with two elderly people isolated and left unattended.
“由于两位老人感染了病毒，家里也没有私家车，自己给社区打了无数个电话，也没法有车可以派送他们去做核酸检测。
"With the two elderly infected with the virus and no private cars at home, I made countless calls to the community and couldn't get a car to send them for nucleic acid tests.
”田晓灵提到，由于做核酸检测的人比较多，还需要排队，需要一天一夜的时间。
Tian noted that since more people were tested for nucleic acids, queues were still required, which would take one day and one night.
“就算我打120将他们送往医院，那他们怎么回来？定点医院都满了，哪里还有床位？”“基本的程序是先挂号、测体温、测血氧浓度、记录个人信息，然后叫到号后，找主诊医生看，医生开药或开检查单后，会开一个单子，去药房取药或去做检查。
If I call 120 to take them to the hospital, how will they get back? The basic procedure is to register, take a temperature, measure the oxygen concentration of the blood, record the personal information, then call the doctor to see the doctor, who will prescribe the medicine or open the check-up sheet, and get the medicine or check-up at the drugstore
开药后配药也要再排一个队取药，配完药后再找负责打针的护士输液。
After prescribing medicine to fill a queue to pick up medicine, after the drug to find the nurse responsible for injection infusion.
”一位患者告诉本报记者。
One patient told the reporter.
多位在同济医院工作的医生告诉记者，不少医生感染新型冠状病毒肺炎就是在发热门诊感染上的。
Many doctors working in Tongji Hospital told reporters that many doctors are infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia is in the fever clinic infection.
担心万一自己感染传染给家人，也是出于工作方便的考虑，该院发热门诊医生下班后即集中住宿在医院对面的城市快捷酒店。
Fearing that in the event of infection to their families, and for the sake of convenience, the hospital's fever clinic doctors will stay in the city's fast-track hotel opposite the hospital immediately after work.
“我们几乎每个人都有暴露，但大家还是迎面而上。
"Almost everyone of us was exposed, but we all went head-on.
”一位肿瘤科医生告诉记者。
"A oncologist told reporters.
武汉同济医院发热门诊内一景 摄影/本报记者宋文娟出现这一问题的原因何在？一位头部三甲医院神经外科医生认为：“首先是床位，合规床位远远不够；其次是物资，消耗远大于供应。
What's the reason for this problem? "says Song Wenjuan, a neurosurgeon at Wuhan Tongji Hospital, a leading neurosurgeon at Tongji Hospital in Wuhan.
”对于检测试剂盒，武汉市四医院一位医生透露，其所在的医院只要住院，基本都会做核酸检测，病人要两次咽拭子阴性才能出院。
For the test kit, a doctor at Wuhan's Fourth Hospital said the hospital where the patient was hospitalized would basically be tested for nucleic acid and patients would have to swabb twice before being discharged.
但也有医生反映，其身边的人想做核酸检测都很难。
But some doctors say it's hard for people around them to get a nucleic acid test.
“想测很难，不一定是试剂盒不够。
"It's hard to measure. It doesn't have to be a kit.
也可能是没那么多医生去做，忙不过来，或者没那么多机器空间。
Or maybe there aren't so many doctors to do it, too busy, or not so much machine space.
甚至不一定是没那么多人手，也有可能是没有那么多防护服，所以没有全副武装的人手，也不能让这些人去裸奔。
Not even so many people, maybe not so many protective clothing, so there are not fully armed people, and these people can not run naked.
问题应该是一环扣一环。
The problem should be one and the same.
”北京协和医院一位资深急诊科医生认为。
A senior emergency doctor at Beijing Concorde Hospital said.
“检测了要住院，收纳能力有限，能住院了才能检测，检测也要走流程。
"Testing to be hospitalized, the capacity to accept is limited, can be hospitalized ability to detect, testing should follow the process.
我们一线很苦恼，陷入死循环。
We are in the middle of a cycle of frustration.
”不过也有医生认为对于轻中症患者，是不是一定要确诊是冠状病毒感染，不一定是最重要的。
"But there are doctors who believe that for light-weight patients, it is not necessary to confirm that the coronavirus infection is not necessarily the most important.
它的主要问题并不是要抗病毒，而是对症处理，而这个症状要看它的轻、中、重。
Its main problem is not antiviral, but symptomatic treatment, which depends on its light, medium and heavy weight.
如果症状非常轻，就是隔离、多喝水，适当地用上抗病毒、抗感染的药物，保持睡眠、加强营养。
If the symptoms are very light, is isolated, drink more water, appropriate anti-viral, anti-infection drugs, maintain sleep, strengthen nutrition.
这个病毒最容易侵犯肺部的黏膜细胞。
The virus is most likely to invade mucosal cells in the lungs.
“目前住院治疗主要是对症治疗为主，让病人度过危险期，保持各个功能的稳定，缺氧的吸氧，有感染的加一些感染药、抗病毒药，电解质不全补一些电解质，丙球蛋白支持疗法，还可以用一些抗艾滋病的药如克力芝，不过这个药目前临床上数量还远不够。
"At present hospital treatment is mainly symptomatic treatment, patients through the critical period, maintain stability of various functions, oxygen oxygen oxygen, there are infected with some infectious drugs, antiviral drugs, electrolytes do not fully complement some electrolytes, proglobulin support therapy, and some anti-AIDS drugs such as Kaletra, but this drug is far from adequate clinically.
”另一位副主任医生也持相似观点。
Another deputy director took a similar view.
“这个病是否难治取决于病人的基础状况，年轻人能扛就扛过来；老人继发，抗感染能力差一些；很少有小孩生这种病的。
"Whether the disease is treatable or not depends on the basic condition of the patient, so young people can carry it and carry it.
”一位在某三甲医院工作的医生告诉记者，其目前在隔离状态，近日其有个同事咳嗽，去拍了个CT，肺部有病毒样改变，而他作为曾密切接触这个同事的医生也需要隔离。
A doctor working at a triple-A hospital told reporters he was in quarantine after a colleague coughed to take a CT scan showing a viral lung change and needed isolation as a doctor who had been in close contact with his colleague.
“一旦CT显示是病毒肺炎，基本上95%是新型冠状病毒感染者。
"Once the CT shows viral pneumonia, basically 95 percent of people are newly infected with the virus.
医生们带毒的话就比较容易传染同事，毕竟不是完全隔离。
Doctors are more likely to infect co-workers if they are poisoned, after all, not completely isolated.
”该医生说。
'said the doctor.
不过其同事并没有去做核酸检测。
But his colleagues did not do a nucleic acid test.
一方面是因为其同事目前身体已经恢复得差不多了，也不想做试剂盒了。
For one thing, his co-worker is now almost recovered and doesn't want to make a kit.
另一方面，这位患病的医生担心做核酸检测有造成交叉感染的风险。
On the other hand, the sick doctor feared the risk of cross-infection if tested for nucleic acids.
目前，发热门诊是采集口咽拭子做流感及新冠RT-PCR的。
At present, fever clinic is to collect oral swabs to do influenza and new crown RT-PCR.
“取材的人也是高危人群，可能有传染性，搞不好取材的时候还会交叉感染。
"The people who get the material are also at high risk and can be infectious and cross-infected if they can't get it.
”前述医生告诉记者。
The doctor told reporters.
“武汉要求做核酸检测的人特别多，可能试剂盒供应不过来。
"Wuhan requirements to do nucleic acid tests are particularly large, may not be able to supply kits.
即使是我们医生自身做核酸检测，也不是想做就能做，得通过科室领导层层审批才能做。
Even if we doctors do a nucleic acid test, it is not to do what you want to do, through the department leadership layer after layer of approval can do.
另外，这个病比较邪性，即使好了之后还会交叉感染。
In addition, the disease is more evil, even after a cross-infection.
所谓的好了，就是达到一个平衡。
The so-called good, is to achieve a balance.
一旦这个病毒再起来，可能又来一遍。
Once the virus gets up again, it's probably going to happen again.
”该医生称。
"said the doctor.
武汉协和医院发热门诊内一景 摄影/本报记者宋文娟这个武汉的冬天，时间和历史，会给出答案。
Wuhan Heating Clinic inside a scene photography / reporter Song Wenjuan this Wuhan winter, time and history, will give the answer.
。
.
点赞（1093）。
Praise (1093).
转发。
Forwarded.
收藏。
Collection.
分享到：。
Share to:
声明：此内容不代表爱股票观点、仅供参考，不构成投资建议。
Disclaimer: This content does not represent love stock view, is for reference only, does not constitute the investment suggestion.
投资者据此操作，风险自担。
Investors operate accordingly, at their own risk.
。
.
请 登录 参与讨论发表评论。
Please log in for comments.
热门评论。
Hot reviews.
全部评论。
All comments.
现在还没有评论哦！。
There's no comment right now.
加载更多。
Load more.
上证指数 3039.67 0.31%9.52  深证成指 11629.70 1.05%120.61  创业板指 2226.64 1.82%39.90 。
The Shanghai Index 3039.67 0.31% 9.52 is strongly supported by an index of 11629.70 1.05% 120.61 GEM Index 2226.64 1.82% 39.90.
48h热评。
48h Heat review.
7天热评。
7 days of heat review.
30天热评。
30 days of heat review.
【政法大学教授：建议证监会暂停开市 不作为将受追责】1月31日消息，中国政...  阅 1367658215 条评论【上海药物所、武汉病毒所联合发现中成药双黄连口服液可抑制新型冠状病毒】记者...  阅 1489315181 条评论【WHO将再次讨论新冠疫情是否构成国际突发公卫事件】世卫组织（WHO）宣布...  阅 3845505163 条评论【世界卫生组织：新型冠状病毒肺炎构成国际公共卫生紧急事件 但不建议实施旅行...  阅 3905925102 条评论【武汉甩锅大会开启 矛头直指疾控中心】武汉的新型冠状病毒事件在去年12月8...  阅 91572478 条评论进入头条热议查看更多。
2007-9-19 19: 19 [WHO: WAN: New Coronavirus Incident in Wuhan: A New Coronavirus Incident in Wuhan [World Health Organization: The New Coronavirus Pneumonia constitutes an International Public Health Emergency.] World Health Organization (WHO) announces.
合作伙伴：。
Partners:.
同花顺|今日头条|一点资讯|百度百家|微博股票|新浪股票|搜狐财经|腾讯财经|网易财经长江证券|东兴证券|太平洋证券|财富证券|新时代证券|东莞证券|华西证券|隆基投资中讯证券|中国证券报|上海证券报|证券时报网|和讯网|投资之家|聪头|财联社|金融界。
Rongji & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; Sina & nbsp; Sina & amp; Finance & # 44; Sina & Co.; Rongji Securities & # 124; China Securities & # 124; Rongji Securities & # 124; China Securities & # 124; China Securities & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; & # 124; China Securities & # 124; Rongji & #
CopyRight(C)2006-2019 www.aigupiao.com All Rights Reserved 北京亿客科创信息技术有限公司版权所有 备案编号： 京ICP备15042420号-3。
Copyright (C) 2006-2019 www.aigupiao.com All Rights Reserved Beijing Billion Guest Information Technology Limited. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved. All Rights Reserved.
网站地图增值电信业务经营许可:   [B2-20191783]   。
Maps Value Added Telecommunications Permit: & # 91; B2-20191783 & # 93;
证券期货业务经营许可:  中讯证研 [ZX0120]   。
Securities and Futures business licensing: Zhongxin Certification & # 91; ZX0120 & # 93;
投诉电话: 0591-86307396。
Complaint Tel: 0591-86307396
声明：本站所有文章、行情数据仅供参考，投资者据此操作，风险自担！爱股票网站以及其合作机构不为本页面提供的信息错误、残缺、延时或因依靠此信息所采取的任何行动负责。
Statement: All articles and market data are for reference only, investors are responsible for the risks! Love the stock website and its partner organizations do not provide this page with information error, defect, delay or any action taken as a result of this information.
市场有风险，投资需谨慎。
Markets are risky and investments need to be cautious.
京公网安备 11010802030527。
Beijing Public Security 11010802030527.
爱股票官方微博。
Love Shares Official Weibo.
扫码关注。
Sweep the code.
爱股票官方微信。
Love the stock official letter.
扫码关注。
Sweep the code.
账号密码登录。
Account number password login.
扫码登录。
Scan login.
新用户注册。
Registration of new users.
账号或密码有误,。
Error in account number or password.
找回密码。
Retrieve the password.
>老师登录请点这里。
Please click here for the teacher's login.
忘记密码。
Forget the code.
输入验证码：。
Enter the authentication code:.
下次自动登录。
Automatic login next time.
登录。
Login.
登录即代表同意爱股票服务协议。
Login signifies agreement to Love the Stock Service Agreement.
第三方登录。
Third party login.
请使用最新版爱股票APP扫码登录。
Please log in with the latest Edition of Love Share APP.
扫码成功。
The sweep was successful.
请在手机上确认登陆。
Please confirm your login on your mobile phone.
返回二维码登录。
Returns two-dimensional code login.
二维码已过期。
Two-dimensional code expired.
请点击刷新。
Please click Refresh.
请输入手机号：。
Please enter your mobile phone number:.
请输入验证码：。
Please enter the authentication code:.
输入手机验证码：。
Enter your mobile phone identification code:.
输入登录密码：。
Enter the login password:.
请确认密码：。
Please confirm password:.
注册即代表同意爱股票服务协议。
Registration signifies consent to the ESP.
爱股票小秘书。
Love the stock secretary.
爱股票小秘书在线。
Love shares small secretary online.
点击与爱股票小秘书在线交谈。
Click and chat online with the Love Stock Secretary.
微信客服。
Micromail customer service.
微信客服。
Micromail customer service.
扫描左侧二维码，或手动添加客服号vipkefu7，添加爱股票微信客服。
Scan the left two-dimensional code, or manually add the customer service number vipkefu7, add love stock micro letter customer service.
QQ客服。
QQ Customer Service.
QQ客服。
QQ Customer Service.
扫描左侧二维码，或手动添加QQ号2870223608，添加爱股票QQ客服。
Scan the left two-dimensional code, or manually add QQN 2870223608, add love stock QQ customer service.
服务热线。
Service hotline.
爱股票服务热线。
Love the Stock Service Hotline.
服务时间：工作日9点-18点。
Service hours: 9: 00 - 18: 00 pm on weekdays.
APP下载。
APP Download.
扫描二维码。
Scanning two-dimensional code.
下载爱股票APP。
Download the Love Stock APP.
提示。
Tips.
确定要取消收藏吗？。
Are you sure you want to cancel the collection?
确认屏蔽此人发布的所有直播？。
Verify that you block all live broadcasts from this person?
下载APP可在：账号安全与隐私中解除对该老师的屏蔽。
Download the APP in: account security and privacy to remove the teacher's screen.
确认。
Confirmation.
取消。
Cancelled.
var fx_title = '武汉病人：以家庭为单位的患者越来越多，去殡仪馆也得排队';。
var fx _ title = & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45
var is_liver_center = parseInt("0"); //是不是老师后台。
var is _ liver _ center = parseInt (& quot; 0 & quot;); / / Is it a teacher's backstage?
