疯狂的口罩：抢购、运钞车待遇与复工的通行证 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Crazy Mask: Scramble Purchase, Cash Courierage and Return to Work Pass - Economic Observation Network - Professional Finance News Website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="种昂";。
Var auther = & quot; & quot; & quot;
疯狂的口罩：抢购、运钞车待遇与复工的通行证。
Crazy Mask: Snap purchase, cash delivery car treatment and return to work pass.
种昂2020-02-07 09:24。
Cylon 2020-02-07 09: 24
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察报 记者 种昂 2月4日，一批5万只口罩由一辆货车缓缓运进了江苏某汽车配件工厂的大门，刘天元总算松了一口气。
BEIJING, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Liu was relieved that a cargo of 50,000 masks had been slowly moved into the door of a Jiangsu auto parts factory by a lorry.
作为这家民企高管兼内部疫情防控的副总指挥，他肩负着企业复工的重担。
As the head of the private enterprise and vice-director of internal epidemic prevention and control, he shouldered the burden of returning to work.
此时，刘天元似乎看到了复工的希望。
At this time, Liu Tianyuan seems to see the hope of returning to work.
。
.
在防疫情与促发展的两难下，越来越多的企业决定在2月10日开工。
Under the dilemma of epidemic prevention and promoting development, more and more enterprises decide to start work on Feb. 10.
不过，企业最终能否按时复工，很大程度上取决于企业是否买到了足够数量的口罩。
Ultimately, however, a firm's ability to get back to work on time depends largely on whether it buys enough masks.
。
.
失败的捐助。
Contributions that fail.
刘天元从来没有想到，一只小小的口罩会差点成为一个大型制造企业春节开门复工的障碍。
Liu never expected that a small mask would be an obstacle to the reopening of a large manufacturing company for the Spring Festival.
。
.
眼下，正值全国防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的关键时期。
This comes at a critical time for the nation to control the new coronavirus pneumonia.
江苏当地政府要求，企业节后复工必须经政府审核。
Jiangsu's local government demanded that the resumption of work after the festival must be reviewed by the government.
。
.
按照江苏当地政府要求的复工程序，“企业至少提前两天向属地镇(街道)防控应急指挥部提出书面申请,提供复工申请表、企业防控方案、用人单位上岗员工名册、承诺书等,由属地镇(街道)防控应急指挥部审核上岗员工名册等申请材料,经审核批准后方可复工。
According to the resumption procedure required by Jiangsu's local government, "the enterprise shall submit a written application to the Emergency Command of Territorial Town (Street) Control at least two days in advance, provide the application form, the enterprise control plan, the employer's list of employees, the undertaking, etc.
”。
"
可刘天元拿到企业须提交的《企业复工申请表》一看，其中明确要求填报：“复工时间”“复工人数”“物资储备”等基本资料，其中“物资储备”第一项就是“口罩储备量”。
Liu Tianyuan can be submitted to the enterprises to submit the "Application Form for Enterprise Resumption of Work," which clearly requires: "Return to work time," "restore the number of workers," "material reserves" and other basic information, the "material reserve" is the first item is "the quantity of masks.
。
.
他查阅了当地政府出台的《关于做好新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控期间企业复工和防护工作的通知》，要求企业加强物资储备“加强口罩、温度计、消毒药械等疫情应对物资准备,确保上岗人员必须具备相应防护用品。
He referred to the notice issued by the local government on the resumption of work and protection during the prevention and control of pneumonia for the new coronavirus infection, and asked enterprises to strengthen the material reserve "to strengthen the preparation of masks, thermometers, antipoisons and other epidemic materials, and to ensure that the personnel on duty have appropriate protective equipment.
”。
"
尽管其中并无明确要求口罩储备的具体数量，但刘天元认为，这是由复工审查人员自行掌握的。
Although there is no explicit requirement for the number of masks in the stock, Liu Tianyuan believes that this is the resumption of the work of the reviewers themselves.
根据当天普遍情况来看，一般企业要想通过复工审查，口罩储备数量每人不少于10个。
According to the prevailing situation on that day, the average enterprise wants to pass the re-work review, the number of surgical masks each no less than 10.
他盘算着，企业现有员工数量4千多人，至少需要储备4万多个口罩。
He reckons the company now employs more than 4,000 people and needs to save at least 40,000 masks.
。
.
这让刘天元陷入了焦虑——如果不能按时复工，春节前接下的订单就无法按时交货，企业就可能丢失客户、陷入亏损；其他企业陆续复工，本企业的员工存在大量流失的可能……可按时复工，又如何在供需缺口巨大的情况下采买足够数量的口罩、温度计、消毒液等稀缺的储备物资呢？。
This has left Liu in a state of anxiety - if he doesn't get back to work on time, orders placed before the Spring Festival will not be delivered on time, and businesses may lose customers and lose money.
说起近来采买口罩的经历，刘天元感触良多……。
Speaking of buying masks recently, Liu Tianyuan felt a lot...
最初，这家江苏企业对口罩等防护物资稀缺性引起警觉，是从大年初二开始的。
Initially, this Jiangsu enterprise to mask and other protective material scarcity caused alarm, from the beginning of the New Year's Day.
当时，疫情刚刚开始在全国范围内蔓延，企业内部紧急组建了疫情防治指挥部，刘天元被任命为副总指挥，负责疫情防控与节后复工事宜。
At that time, the epidemic was just beginning to spread across the country, enterprises within the urgent establishment of the epidemic prevention and control command, Liu Tianyuan was appointed deputy commander-in-chief, responsible for disease prevention and control and post-festival resumption of work.
。
.
由于在疫情核心区域——湖北省设有分公司，这家企业原本计划购买一批口罩捐赠给武汉市金银潭医院。
With a branch in Hubei province, the epicentre of the outbreak, the company had planned to buy a batch of masks for donation to Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
当时湖北疫情尚未全面扩散，湖北分公司以每个2.8元的高价在湖北仙桃抢购到10万个口罩。
Hubei epidemic has not spread across the board, Hubei branch of the price of 2.8 yuan each in Hubei peach snapped up 100,000 masks.
当企业人员兴冲冲地将货车开进医院大院，将一箱箱口罩抱进医院办公室时，却被医务人员的一句话堵了回来，“这是防尘口罩，无法用作医疗防护”。
"This is a dust mask and cannot be used as medical protection," the medical staff said, as company personnel cheerfully drove the van into the hospital compound and carried a crate of masks into the hospital office.
。
.
“原本以为是口罩就行，没有想到口罩还分多种级别。
"I thought it was just a mask. I didn't think it was going to be multi-level.
”这种口罩平时售价每个仅为0.2元左右，刘天元说道，“好在口罩现在是紧俏商品，市场供不应求，货主同意全部退货”。
"Luckily, the mask is now in short supply and the market is in short supply. The owner agrees to return it all," Liu said.
。
.
可是当该企业计划再行捐赠时，医用口罩在国内市场上已越来越稀缺。
But as the company plans to donate again, medical masks are becoming increasingly scarce in the domestic market.
该企业采购人员再也没能在湖北当地如数买到，最终捐赠以失败告终。
The company's procurement staff was no longer able to buy the entire number of local Hubei, the final donation failed.
。
.
口罩采买记。
Purchase of masks.
以往，口罩在国内市场少人问津，生产口罩的企业纷纷转产“尿不湿”。
In the past, face masks in the domestic market few people asked, the production of masks enterprises have been converted to "urine not wet."
可如今，口罩在全国各地已成为最紧俏的商品之一。
But masks are now one of the most sought-after products around the country.
。
.
工信部消费品工业司副司长曹学军曾表示，中国是口罩生产大国，年产量约占全球50%。
Cao Xuejun, deputy director of the consumer goods industry department at the Ministry of Industry and Communications, said China was a big producer of masks, accounting for about 50 per cent of global production.
正常情况下，中国每天口罩产能达2000万只以上。
Normally, China has more than 20 million masks a day.
可这一数字在中国14亿人口面前，当人人需要口罩之时，供需缺口立显。
But with 1.4 billion people in China, when everyone needs a mask, the gap between supply and demand stands out.
以山东济南为例，该市2018年常住人口746.04万。
Jinan, Shandong Province, for example, has a population of 7,460,400 inhabitants in 2018.
2月6日济南市政府召开新闻发布会公布，截至2月5日，全市市、区县共库存口罩仅为42.99万只……。
As of February 5, only 429,900 face masks were in stock in cities, districts and counties across the city.
眼看着全国疫情持续扩散，口罩成为了全民争相抢购的焦点；眼看着复工的期限日益临近，更是成为各类企业复工的必备物资。
As the epidemic continues to spread across the country, masks have become the focus of intense competition, and as the deadline for getting back to work approaches, they have become a must-have for businesses of all kinds.
这时，企业早已内部总动员、通过各种途径四处抢购。
At this time, the enterprise has long been internal mobilization, through various ways to rush around.
。
.
这家江苏的汽车配件企业旗下有一家国际贸易公司，此时正好在特殊时期发挥特殊作用。
The Jiangsu auto parts company has an international trading company that plays a special role in special times.
。
.
“加拿大口罩N95最贵，每个折合数十元人民币；美国普遍是三四美元一个；还是韩国最便宜，只有20元人民币。
"The Canadian Mask N95 is the most expensive, equivalent to tens of thousands of yuan each; the US commonly has three or four dollars; or South Korea has the cheapest, at only Rmb20.
”经过全球比价后，该企业动用海外资源从韩国采购了4000个N95口罩运回国内。
After a global price comparison, the company used overseas resources to purchase 4,000 N95 masks from South Korea and ship them back home.
。
.
有过一次捐赠失败的教训后，企业上下对不同口罩的不同防护作用有了深刻的认识，这4000个N95口罩特定向企业门岗、巡查等需要特别防护的一线人员发放。
After a failed donation, the enterprise has a deep understanding of the different protective effects of different masks, these 4000 N95 masks are specifically issued to enterprises door posts, patrol and other frontline personnel in need of special protection.
。
.
近日，该企业一位员工突然上报，有人以3元/只的价格出售一次性医用口罩，而这种口罩平时只有0.4元/只，价格翻了七八倍。
Recently, an employee of the company reported that someone was selling disposable medical masks for 3 yuan per day, compared with the usual price of 0. 4 yuan per mask, a seven or eight times higher price.
而且，由于是个人出售，既不能提供发票，也无法进行配送，只能交付现金、上门提货。
Moreover, since they were sold by individuals, neither invoices nor deliveries could be made, only cash and door-to-door deliveries could be made.
。
.
可这时，当地企业都在为复工争相采买，个人都在为返城出行而四处求购，如有丝毫犹豫就会面临被抢购一空的尴尬。
But local businesses are scrambling to get back to work, individuals are shopping around for the trip back to the city, and are likely to face the embarrassment of being snapped up if they hesitate at all.
无奈之下，刘天元当天紧急安排疫情防治指挥部的执行人员抢购了3000只回来。
However, Liu Tianyuan that day emergency arrangements for the implementation of the epidemic prevention and control command staff snapped up 3000 back.
。
.
在抗击疫情的特殊时期，口罩的生产、销售呈现出与平时完全不同的特殊状态。
During the special period of fighting the epidemic, the production and sale of masks showed a completely different special situation.
上游，生产无纺布的企业常有政府人员驻点，一次派出多名警员半夜蹲守提货，警车开道，统一调配，享受“运钞”才有的特殊待遇。
Upstream, the production of non-woven enterprises often government personnel stationed, a number of police officers squatting in the middle of the night to pick up goods, police cars open, unified deployment, enjoy "money transport" only the special treatment.
下游，口罩被统一调配后，只有少数流向市场，暗中以高价交易。
Downstream, only a few of the masks were routed to the market and traded clandestinely at high prices.
货源稀缺，抢购者众，承诺供货也常被高价拦截，屡遭爽约；由于不敢公开交易，提货时往往偷偷摸摸，拐弯抹角，“像作贼一般”。
Supplies are scarce, snapping up buyers and promising to supply are often blocked at high prices, and because they are afraid to trade openly, they are often taken surreptitiously, obliquely and "as thieves."
。
.
刘天元妻子所在的另一家民企有200多人规模。
Liu's wife works in another private company with more than 200 people.
该企业曾托人从美国购买了2000只口罩，结果因不明原因遭海关查扣，预付的资金也打了水漂。
The company had sent two thousand masks from the United States, which were seized by customs for unknown reasons, and the funds advanced were wasted.
。
.
2月1日，刘天元发现，有朋友圈发布“从海外运回100万只一次性医用口罩”“每个售价1.95元”“一万只以上起订”的消息。
"One million disposable medical masks were returned from overseas," Liu found on Feb. 1. "The price is $1.95 each."
尽管比平时贵了不少，但为了企业能够正常复工，刘天元只好立刻安排人员抢购了5万只。
Although more expensive than usual, but in order to be able to resume normal business, Liu Tianyuan immediately arranged for the purchase of 50, 000.
。
.
据刘天元透露，当地不少企业因无法买到足够数量的口罩，面临着按时复工无望的困境。
According to Liu Tianyuan, many local enterprises can not buy enough masks, face a timely return to work hopeless plight.
在他看来，口罩这个关键要素的稀缺已使防疫情与促发展之间产生了一个循环矛盾。
In his view, the scarcity of masks, a key element, has created a cyclical contradiction between immunization and development.
一方面，疫情冲击着经济发展，急需企业复工提振经济；另一方面，疫情又加重了口罩供求的失衡，反过来又限制着企业的复工。
On the one hand, the epidemic is hitting the economy, requiring companies to resume work to boost it; on the other hand, it exacerbates the imbalance between supply and demand for masks, which in turn limits the resumption of business.
。
.
4天后，这5万只口罩终于被运进了工厂。
Four days later, the 50,000 masks were finally brought into the factory.
看着员工带着东拼西凑采购回来的不同颜色、不同样式的口罩，刘天元长出了一口气——这不单单是为了凑足开工所必备的储备物资的数量，更是为了每一个前来上班员工的身体健康。
Seeing his employees bring in different colors and masks to scrape together, Liu breathed a sigh of relief - not just to gather up the necessary supplies to get started, but also to keep everyone on the job healthy.
。
.
按照刘天元的计算，目前储备的口罩仅够企业复工后员工半个多月的用量。
According to Liu Tianyuan's calculation, the current stock of masks only enough to restore workers after more than half a month.
他计划后续一面观察疫情的发展，一面继续抢购。
He plans to follow up to see how the epidemic unfolds while continuing to snap up.
。
.
（刘天元系化名）。
(Liu Tianyuan is a pseudonym).
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
种昂经济观察报记者。
Cylon Economic Observer, journalist.
深度调查部记者。
Reporter, in-depth investigation.
关注石化、钢铁、机械制造以及山东地区区域新闻报道，擅长公司新闻分析、人物特写、深度报道。
Focus on petrochemicals, steel, machinery manufacturing and Shandong regional news reports, good at corporate news analysis, character features, in-depth reporting.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、疯狂的口罩：抢购、运钞车待遇与复   。
1, crazy mask: snapping up, cash transport car treatment and recovery.
2、快讯 | 国家卫健委：新型冠状病毒   。
2. Express & # # 124; National Health Service Commission: New Coronavirus.
3、抗疫时评 | 请为武汉“造谣者”正   。
3. Please say yes to Wuhan's disinformation campaign.
4、新冠肺炎最早示警者之一李文亮医生   。
Dr. Lee Wenliang, one of the earliest early warnings of pneumonia in the New Crown.
5、随州市长回应广水“SOS”紧急求援   。
5, Suizhou city governor responds to wide water "SOS" urgent appeal for help.
6、“万家宴”所在社区卫生中心医生：   。
6, "Wanjiafei" in the community health center doctor:.
7、疫情期4S店流动性风险激增 汽车流   。
7, epidemic period 4S store liquidity risk surges the automobile flow.
8、A股战疫，外资三天持续“扫货”334   。
8, A share of the plague, foreign capital continued to "sweep" 334 days.
9、疫情下的环保企业：几乎所有事情都   。
9. Environmental businesses in the face of the epidemic: almost everything.
10、蔚来新完成1亿美元融资 公司称“还   。
10, Ulilai to complete the new $100 million financing company said "return.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
