“爸爸妈妈是医生，现在他们在抗疫前线”。
"Mom and Dad are doctors, and now they're on the front line."
林少娟。
Lin Shaojuan.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
一些医护人员和他们子女的故事。
The stories of some medical staff and their children.
文 | 林少娟 编辑 | 沈小山他们是驰援湖北的医护人员：2月7日中午，中山大学附属第一医院举行驰援武汉医疗总队成立出发仪式，再派131名精兵强将组成“特战队”驰援武汉，医疗队将支援武汉协和医院西院区。
At noon on 7 February, the First Hospital attached to Zhongshan University held a ceremony to set up the Wuhan General Medical Corps. A further 131 of its elite troops were sent to Wuhan, where the medical team will back up the WICH.
2月7日，武汉机场，山东大学齐鲁医院医疗队到达武汉，偶遇四川大学华西医院医疗队伍，两队医生护士隔空呼喊“加油”。
February 7, Wuhan airport, Shandong University Qilu Hospital Medical Team arrived in Wuhan, Sichuan University, the hospital encountered the medical team, two teams of doctors and nurses shouted "refueling.
据悉，他们将共同接管武汉大学人民医院东院区。
It is reported that they will jointly take over Wuhan University People's Hospital East Campus.
……他们也是爸爸妈妈的孩子，以及孩子的爸爸妈妈：2月7日上午8点，中山大学孙逸仙纪念医院第二批医疗队赴武汉驰援武汉协和医院，在院本部大礼堂即将举行出征仪式。
At 8 a.m. on February 7, the second medical team from Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Zhongshan University went to Wuhan to help Wuhan Hsieh-ho Hospital, where a military ceremony was to be held in the main auditorium of the hospital.
26岁的耳鼻喉科护士卢芷茵正在和爸爸妈妈、同事拥抱。
The 26-year-old ear, nose and throat nurse is hugging her parents and colleagues.
（图据广州日报）广州海珠区9岁女孩朵朵一笔一划写下一篇名为《生日快乐》的日记。
Guangzhou Haizhu District, 9-year-old girls write a diary called "Happy Birthday" one by one.
她的父亲是南方医科大学南方医院急诊科宋卫华医生。
Her father was Dr. Song Weihua, an emergency department at Southern Hospital of Southern Medical University.
2日早上，朵朵央求爸爸可不可以抱抱她再去上班，却被爸爸“残忍”拒绝：“不可以，朵朵要离爸爸远点，爸爸接触了病人，等疫情过后再抱朵朵！”（图据广州日报）疫情之下，我们采访了一些“普通人”，请他们讲述那些“普通的”医护人员和他们的子女，有着怎样的故事。
On the morning of the 2nd day, Dodo begged his father to hug her to go to work, but his father "cruel" refused: "No, one after another to stay away from the father, father contact patients, after the epidemic situation, we interviewed some" ordinary "health care personnel and their children, what the story is.
凌晨五点的电话黄沁是被一阵急促的手机铃声吵醒的——婉转、悠扬的系统铃声曲调，没有记错的话，这应该是妈妈的手机铃声。
At five in the morning, Bentham was woken up by a sudden ringing of the cell phone - the melodious, melodious ringing of the system, which, if I remember correctly, was my mother's ringing.
身侧的被子被掀开，随后是拖鞋相撞的声音。
The sideways quilt was lifted, followed by the sound of slippers colliding.
黄沁听到妈妈问了一句：“是不是要立刻回？”两秒之后，这名妇产科医生沉稳地回复：“好的，我马上回去。
"Are you going back right away?" Huang heard his mother ask. "Two seconds later, the obstetrician-gynaecologist replied calmly," OK, I'll be right back.
”这里是江西抚州的一间山庄。
This is a mountain villa in Fuzhou, Jiangxi Province.
大年三十的凌晨六点，天际还未破晓，黄沁一家却已经灯火通明。
At 6 a. m. on New Year's Eve, before dawn, the Bentham family had a bright light.
地上散乱地放着一捆捆蔬菜，还有几条活鱼。
Bundles of vegetables and several live fish lay scattered on the ground.
“姨妈、舅舅们看到妈妈的微信后，早早起来去鱼塘里捞的。
"My aunts and uncles got up early and fished up the fish pond after seeing their mother's letter.
”黄沁说。
'he said.
如果不塞车的话，10个小时后，这些储粮将随着黄沁爸爸的车抵达900公里外的深圳。
If there were no traffic jams, the stores would arrive in Shenzhen 900 kilometers away in 10 hours with Father Huang's car.
而在当晚，深圳市卫健委公布了深圳市15例感染新型冠状病毒的病例详情。
In the evening, Shenzhen Health Commission announced the city of Shenzhen 15 cases of a new coronavirus infection details.
妈妈返深后，黄沁的姨妈在朋友圈里感慨：“刚到家就接到归队的通知，姐姐身为一个医务工作者在此时也是身不由己！”晚上，一桌热气腾腾的年夜饭如期张罗，众人斟酒、碰杯。
When his mother returned home, his aunt lamented in the circle of friends, "Just got home to receive notice of the arrival of the team, sister as a medical worker can not help it!"
黄沁的外婆生养了六个子女，常年天南地北，很少聚齐。
Huang Bentham's grandmother had six children, perennial north and south, rarely together.
今年是难得的全部到齐的一年，尽管这场大团聚只维持了不到24个小时。
This year has been a rare year for all of us, although the reunion lasted less than 24 hours.
在黄沁迄今为止的18年记忆里，这不是妈妈第一次缺席年夜饭。
This is not the first time that my mother has been absent from Chinese New Year's Eve dinner in his memory for 18 years now.
“私心地讲，我不太愿意妈妈回去上班。
"I don't really want my mother back at work, selfishly.
”黄沁的语气有些复杂。
"Bentham's tone was somewhat complicated.
尽管疫情并未大规模地席卷各地，但随着感染数据不断攀升，口罩、防护服开始成为微博常驻热搜词，身处疫情中心区外的人都隐隐焦躁起来。
Although the epidemic did not engulf the region on a large scale, people outside the epicentre of the epidemic became edgy as infection data continued to mount and masks and protective clothing began to become permanent tweets.
高悬于顶的病毒阴影，让黄沁开始有些信息敏感。
High hanging in the top of the virus shadow, so that Huang Yin began to have some information sensitivity.
“每天睁眼的第一件事情就是打开微博刷疫情数据。
"The first thing I open my eyes every day is turn on the microblogging data.
”疫情新闻排山倒海，黄沁的心情在雀跃和焦虑之间往复，如同弹珠。
"The news of the outbreak is overwhelming, and Bentham's mood swings back and forth between joy and anxiety like marbles.
而在1400多公里的山东省，舒朗的爸爸正准备出门前往医院上班。
And in Shandong Province, more than 1,400 kilometers, Shulang's father is getting ready to go out to work.
口罩、手套、无菌帽、防护服、眼镜，这是舒爸爸每天上岗时必要的装备。
Mask, gloves, aseptic cap, protective clothing, glasses, this is the necessary equipment for father Shuba on duty every day.
尽管所在的骨伤科并不是与疫情直接接触的科室，但舒朗的爸爸还是在除夕晚接到了加班的通知。
Although the orthopaedic unit was not in direct contact with the outbreak, Shulang's father was notified of the overtime on New Year's Eve.
电话响起的时候，舒朗的妹妹正缠着爸爸，撒娇着要拿爸爸的手机看视频。
When the phone rang, Shu Lang's sister was pestering his father, acting like a spoiled brat to watch the video on his father's mobile phone.
“心里还是有些忐忑的。
"The heart or some perturbed.
”舒朗叹了口气，“尤其怕因为疫情恐慌导致的冲突。
"Shu Lang sighed." Especially afraid of the conflict caused by the outbreak of panic.
”舒朗的爸爸是本地的一线医生，2003年非典爆发的时候，舒朗曾一连几日见不到他的踪影。
Shulang's father, a local front-line doctor, was not seen for days when SARS broke out in 2003.
为了和爸爸见面，舒朗故意将自己弄感冒直至高烧。
In order to meet his father, Shulang deliberately cold himself to a high fever.
“但是我爸依旧没回来。
"But my father didn't come back.
”舒朗说，“后来我才知道，爸爸听说我发烧之后急得跟院长起了冲突，得知我退烧之后在电话里一个劲地哭。
"Later, I learned that my father had a fever and had a panic attack with the dean, and that I was crying on the phone after my fever had abated.
”17年后，新型冠状病毒肺炎在全国多地爆发，舒朗的爸爸如同2003年一样站到了抗击疫情的前线。
Seventeen years later, when new coronavirus pneumonia erupted across the country, Shulang's father was on the frontline of the fight against the disease, as he did in 2003.
舒朗现今已经26岁了。
Shulang is now 26 years old.
这一次，舒朗不再需要故意将自己弄感冒才能见到爸爸。
This time, Shulang no longer needs to deliberately catch a cold to see his father.
“好在我也是医疗行业药剂的一员了。
"Fortunately I'm part of the medical profession, too.
”舒朗的语气带着欣慰，“这次我可以跟爸爸一起坚守在岗位上，共同对抗疫情。
"Shu Lang tone with relief," this time I can stick to the post with my father, together to fight the epidemic.
”下午三点的年夜饭码得整齐的生菜、金针菇，肉丸对成两半切开，汤底冒出微黄的气泡，林博瑶一家的年夜饭在火锅的热气中徐徐开展，而墙上的挂钟显示着此刻的时间是下午三点。
At three o'clock in the afternoon, lettuce and mushrooms were neatly ordered, the meat balls were cut in half, yellow bubbles appeared at the bottom of the soup, and the dinner of the Limbauyao family was slowly unfolding in the heat of the pot, while the wall clock showed it was three o'clock in the afternoon.
“爸爸五点就要去医院值班，只能提前年夜饭的时间了。
"Daddy's going to the hospital at five o'clock, so it's time for New Year's Eve.
”林博瑶简单地介绍了一下原委。
Lin Boyao gave a brief account of the situation.
“吃完刚刚好。
"That's good to eat.
”林博瑶一家住在广东省某个边远小镇，而爸爸是镇上医院的院长。
The Limbauyao family lives in a remote town in Guangdong province, and her father is the dean of the town hospital.
疫情爆发之后，林爸爸所在的医院被收为定点治疗医院。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, father Lin's hospital was admitted as a designated treatment hospital.
镇上第一例疑似病例送到医院的时候，林博瑶的爸爸恰好休息。
When the town's first suspected case arrived at the hospital, Lin Boyao's father was resting.
“其实有点小庆幸。
"" It's a little lucky.
”林博瑶说。
'said Lin.
但很快，第二例疑似病例接踵而至，林博瑶开始有些不安。
But soon, a second suspicious case followed, and Lin Boyao began to feel uneasy.
小镇地处偏远，经济落后，镇医院的防护物资十分有限。
The town is remote, economically backward, and the town hospital has very limited protective materials.
为了将更多口罩留给爸爸，林博瑶一家自觉地取消了所有聚会活动，“尽量不出门。
In order to leave more masks for their father, the Limbauyao family consciously cancelled all the party activities, "try not to go out.
”随着疫情逐渐漫开，小镇上的部分居民开始听信“封村封路”的谣言，甚至哄抢物资，口罩价格水涨船高，而镇上仍然可见不戴口罩出门的居民。
As the outbreak spread, some residents of the town began to listen to rumors of "village closures" and even looting of supplies, while prices of masks soared as residents of the town left their homes without masks.
“比较无奈，也是爸爸的无奈。
"More helpless, but also the father of helplessness.
”林博瑶说。
'said Lin.
如果林博瑶一家的年夜饭是“速战速决”，那么许雯家的年夜饭则是“姗姗来迟”。
If the Lingboyao family's New Year dinner is "quick decision," then Xu Wenjie's New Year dinner is "long overdue."
许雯的妈妈是河南省一名内科医生，爸爸在食品质量管控行业工作。
Xu Wen's mother is a physician in Henan province, and her father works in the food quality control industry.
联系上许雯的时候已经将近深夜23时，而许雯还在等妈妈回家。
Xu Wen was contacted almost 2300 hours late at night and Xu Wen is still waiting for her mother to go home.
“等妈妈回家给她做饭吃。
Wait till Mom comes home and cooks for her.
”加班是许雯妈妈近期以来工作的常态，除夕夜也是如此。
Working overtime was the norm for Xu Wen's mother's recent work, as was New Year's Eve.
当晚，许雯的父母姗姗而归，一家人剁馅儿、调酱，深夜十一点，一盘热气腾腾的饺子端上许家的饭桌。
That night, Xu Wen's parents Shanshan came home, the family chop children, seasoning, 11 o'clock in the night, a plate of steaming dumplings on Xu's dinner table.
许雯非常珍惜这种家人团聚的时刻。
Xu cherished this time of family reunion.
许雯是一名大二学生，大学地处四川，回家的机会不多。
Xu Wen is a sophomore. The university is located in Sichuan.
父母早出晚归，许雯跟父母相处的时间变得很少，她偶尔跟父母打趣，“我现在是父爱母爱都极度缺失啊。
When her parents came home early and late, Xu Wen spent less time with her parents. She occasionally teased her parents.
”在这场疫情爆发前，许雯一家本来有着非常丰富的新年计划：腊月二十八去买衣服，大年初一看电影，再约小姨一家去滑雪……而节节攀升的疫情数据让许雯一家变得“两极分化”：一边是风尘仆仆的父母，一边是终日宅在家里的子女。
Before the outbreak, the Xuwen family had a very rich New Year's resolution: 28 to buy clothes, watch a movie on the first day of the Lunar New Year, and to go skiing... while the escalating epidemic figures polarized the Xu family: dusty parents and housebound children.
许雯和弟弟经常会向妈妈抱怨居家生活的无聊，而妈妈只是轻轻地说了一句：“你觉得无聊的家，是多少医护工作者想回却回不去的家。
Xu and her brother often complained to their mothers about the boredom of living at home, while their mother only whispered, "How many healthcare workers want to go home when you feel bored
”“我特别特别担心。
"" I was particularly worried.
”许雯连连说了两个“特别”。
"Xu Wen repeatedly said two" special.
家里仅有一个N95口罩，许雯的爸爸已经连续戴了一个星期。
There was only one N95 mask in the house and Xu's father had been wearing it for a week.
在妈妈的手机里，许雯曾经刷到一条朋友圈。
In her mother's mobile phone, Xu Wen once brushed a circle of friends.
“有些医护工作者把蓄了多年的长发剪掉，为了工作方便。
"Some health care workers cut their long hair, which has been growing for years, to make it easier to work.
”当时许雯的眼泪一下子涌了出来。
"Tears welled up from Xu Wen's eyes.
照片上的女孩子们剪着短发，笑靥如花，许雯知道，有些女孩子其实跟她差不多大。
The girls in the picture cut short hair, dimples like flowers. Xu Wen knew that some girls were actually about her age.
为妈妈做饭切菜，架锅，下油，颠勺，这是侯微每天必做的程序之一。
Cooking and cutting vegetables for my mother, cooking, cooking, cooking, oil, ladle, this is one of the daily procedures Hou Wei must do.
一通忙活后，侯微从厨房里端出一盘猪肉炒莴笋，还有一道清蒸鲽鱼。
After a busy job, Hou Wei from the kitchen to bring out a plate of pork fried asparagus, and a steamed halibut.
侯微在准备妈妈的晚饭。
Hou Wei was preparing his mother's dinner.
时间估算得差不多的话，妈妈的敲门声应该在22点左右响起。
The time estimate is similar, mother's knock on the door should ring around 22 o'clock.
如果按照原本的人员安排，侯微的妈妈是不必在疫情的一线作战的。
If according to the original personnel arrangement, Hou Wei's mother is not necessary in the outbreak of the frontline operations.
侯微妈妈已经57岁了，还有3年就可以退休。
Hou Wei's mother is 57 years old and has three years left to retire.
但在得知疾控中心没有将她安排在疫情应急组时，侯微妈妈有些急了：“经验也在，也还能干，能不能让我做点儿什么？”进入应急组后，从大年初一至初七，侯微妈妈只有两个上午在家休息。
But when she learned that the CDC did not place her in the emergency response team, Hou Wei mother a little anxious: "Experience is also able, can I do something?" After entering the emergency team, from the first to seventh, Hou micro-mother only two mornings to rest at home.
休息并不是真正意义上的休息，对于侯微妈妈来说，她只是换了一种方式在作战。
Rest is not really the sense of rest, for the mother Hou Wei, she just changed a way of fighting.
侯微将妈妈形容为“记者”，“手机一响她就特别紧张。
Hou Wei described his mother as a "reporter", "mobile phone ring she is particularly nervous.
”侯微说，“基本上处于一个时刻紧绷的状态。
"Basically, it was a tense moment," Hou said.
”侯微家住在河北省承德市，妈妈是当地疾控中心的工作人员。
Hou Wei lives in Chengde City, Hebei Province, where his mother works for the local CDC.
承德市公交停运之后，妈妈的上班方式变成打车，但能否打到车却是一个未知数。
Chengde City public transport shutdown, the mother's way to work into a taxi, but whether to call the car is an unknown number.
不太幸运的时候，侯微妈妈需要步行近一个小时回家。
Unfortunate, the mother Hou Wei needs to walk for nearly an hour to go home.
天气寒冷，天空有时会飘起小雪，而夜幕的降临让寒意加剧。
Cold weather, sometimes the sky will float a small snow, and the arrival of night so that the chill.
“妈妈倒想得开，觉得就当锻炼了。
"" Mom thinks it's time to exercise.
”侯微说。
'said Hou.
雪中承德（图源腾讯新闻）母亲不介意，身为女儿的侯微却很心疼。
Snowy Chengde (Tecent news chart source) mother does not mind, as a daughter Hou Wei is very distressed.
侯微是单亲家庭长大的孩子，母亲职业特殊，无法时时陪伴。
Hou Wei is a single-parent family growing up children, the mother's occupation is special, can not always accompany.
“非典的时候妈妈值班就把我扔下了。
My mother left me on duty when she was SARS.
”侯微语气如常。
"Hou Weiwei tone as usual.
多年妈妈不在家的日子里，侯微磨练出了一身厨艺。
Years of mother is not at home in the days, Hou micro-hone out of a cooking art.
闲暇的时候，侯微会戴上口罩去楼下的饭店买菜。
In his spare time, Hou Weiwei would wear a mask to go downstairs to the hotel to buy vegetables.
摆摊的叔叔阿姨为人豪爽，菜价优惠，有时甚至冲侯微说：“你随便拿一些，给你了！”惶惶不安的疫情氛围里，这些点滴的细节让人倍感温暖。
Uncles and aunts spread out of the people, vegetable price concessions, sometimes even said: "You take some, give you!" Panic atmosphere, these drops of detail people feel warm.
“我差点想和医院吵架”这不是李诗第一次在武汉过年——但从来没有哪一个年如同今年这样人心惶惶。
"I almost want to quarrel with the hospital" This is not Li Shi's first New Year in Wuhan - but there has never been a more panic-stricken year.
没有年夜饭，也没有看春晚。
There was no New Year's Eve dinner or Spring Festival Gala.
“实在是没有心情。
"I'm not in the mood.
”李诗偶尔会抬头望向窗外，街道上几乎没有人，很久才会有一个人经过，戴着口罩，行色匆匆。
Once in a while, Li Shi would look up out of the window. There was hardly anyone on the street, and for a long time a man would pass by wearing a mask and hurrying.
人口千万的现代都市，城市交通骤然封锁、停运，如同人体的血液停止流动。
With a population of tens of millions of modern cities, urban traffic is suddenly blocked and shut down, as if the human body's blood flow stopped.
李诗已经一个多星期没有下楼了。
Li Shi has not been downstairs for more than a week.
但不断上涨的感染数字下，总得有人迈出屋门，为改变现状做点什么。
But in the face of rising infection figures, someone has to step out and do something about it.
高中生李诗的妈妈是一名妇产科医生，这不是与肺炎直接相关的科室——但人类的分娩并不会因为突然的疫情而有所中止。
Li Shi's mother, a high school student, is an obstetrician-gynaecologist, not a department directly concerned with pneumonia - but human delivery does not stop with a sudden outbreak.
出行成了最现实的问题。
Travel has become the most real problem.
刚封城时，市民自发组成志愿者团队，接送李诗妈妈等医护人士上班，如今是滴滴司机无偿接送。
When the city was just sealed, the public spontaneously formed a volunteer team to take Li Shi mother and other medical personnel to work, is now drip-dripping free transport.
直至大年初六，李诗妈妈仍然每天在外奔波12小时。
Up to the sixth day of the year, Li Shi's mother is still traveling outside for 12 hours.
李诗很少在白天的时候见到妈妈，妈妈总是在天还没亮的时候就已经出门。
Li Shi rarely sees her mother in the daytime. She always goes out before it is light.
与李诗的情况类似，穆清也很少听到爸爸的声音了。
Similar to Li's, Mu Qing rarely heard his father's voice.
“总是开会，总是打电话。
"Always in meetings, always on the phone.
”穆清的语气里有些怨气。
There was something bitter in Mu Qing's tone.
当得知爸爸可能被派上一线抗疫时，18岁的穆清忍不住爆发了：“我当时对爸爸说：我想和医院吵架。
Mu Qing, 18, broke out when he learned that his father might be sent to fight a frontline attack. "I said to my father," I want to fight with the hospital.
”这是来自一个女儿的担忧。
This is the worry of a daughter.
而担忧源自于对未知病毒的恐惧，更源于潜在的风险。
Worry stems from fear of unknown viruses, but also from potential risks.
穆清爸爸所在的医院几乎没有针对冠状病毒的防护设备，整个重症科室只剩下十几个N95口罩。
Mu Qing father's hospital almost no protective equipment for coronavirus, the entire department of critical care only a dozen N95 masks.
没有防护服、防护镜，穆清爸爸几乎是赤手空拳地在与疫情搏斗。
Without protective clothing and glasses, Mu Qing's father was fighting the epidemic almost bare-handed.
“眼结膜是会传染的啊！”与好友的通话里，穆清忍不住哭出了声。
"Conjunctiva is can infect ah!" In the conversation with friend, Mu Qing cannot help but cry out a voice.
在穆清的眼里，爸爸也许不是一个合格的好父亲。
In Mu Qing's eyes, father may not be a qualified good father.
“小时候我发烧挂水，他在抢救病人。
"When I was a child I had a fever and he was saving patients.
”“烧饭不会，洗衣机也不会开，我读高三时连我老师是谁都不认识。
"" I can't cook, nor can I open the washing machine, and I didn't even know my teacher when I was in my senior year.
”穆清一句一句地数落着父亲。
"Muqing repeated his father one sentence at a time.
但爸爸绝对是一个合格的医生。
But Dad is definitely a qualified doctor.
任职重症科室数十年，穆清看着爸爸抢救了一条一条生命，也得到了一面面锦旗和感谢信。
Served in the severe department for decades, Mu Qing watched his father save a life, also got a side of the banner and thank-you letter.
“我爸重症监护基本就没有救人失败过。
"My dad's intensive care service basically didn't fail.
”穆清语气里带着自豪。
"Mu Qing tone with pride.
穆清在等待着疫情结束的那一天。
Muqing is waiting for the end of the epidemic.
“爸爸说，疫情没有当年非典严重，肯定治得好。
"Dad said the epidemic was not as serious as SARS in those days and certainly it would be cured.
”*文中所提黄沁、舒朗、林博瑶、许雯、侯微、李诗、穆清等人名皆为化名。
* The names Huang Qin, Shulang, Lin Boyao, Xu Wen, Hou Wei, Li Shi and Mu Qing are all aliases.
来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
http: / / www.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) Welcome to your circle of friends and if you want authorization, please email newmedia @ nbweekly.com.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“爸爸妈妈是医生，现在他们在抗疫前线”。
"Mom and Dad are doctors, and now they're on the front line."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“爸爸妈妈是医生，现在他们在抗疫前线”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; "My parents were doctors, and now they are at the front line.";
var msg_desc = "一些医护人员和他们子女的故事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; some stories about health workers and their children.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
