湖北随州：31名外援医生终于来了。
Suizhou, Hubei: 31 foreign aid doctors finally arrived.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 千篇一绿。
The following article comes in a thousand green pages.
Author 崔慧莹。
Author Cui Ying.
千篇一绿。
A thousand green articles.
著文千篇，皆为一绿。
Write thousands of articles, all green.
南方周末绿色新闻，关切我们每一个人赖以生存的水、空气和食品，因为它们是一切崇高价值的基础。
Southern Weekend Green News is concerned about the water, air and food on which every one of us depends, as they are the basis of all noble values.
。
.
▲2020年2月2日，随县高城镇雷家祠村村委会工作人员到村民香菇种植大棚发放宣传单。
On February 2, 2020, the high town of Lijia Ancestral Village village committee staff to villagers mushroom cultivation shed to distribute leaflets.
（随州市政府网站截图/图）全文共2923字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text (screenshot / map of Suizhou government website) is 2923 words, which takes about 7 minutes to read.
随州距离武汉约两百公里，普通火车两小时、高铁一小时可达，大量随州人在武汉就业。
Suizhou is about 200 kilometers away from Wuhan, ordinary trains can reach two hours, high-speed rail can reach an hour, a large number of people in Wuhan employment.
虽然早在1月25日就已经开始公开募集物资，然而直至最近几日，随州市的紧急呼吁才大范围被外界所知。
Although the public collection of supplies had begun as early as 25 January, it was only in recent days that the emergency appeal from Suizhou City became widely known.
2月5日，湖北省省委副书记、省长王晓东来随州检查指导疫情防控工作。
February 5, Hubei province deputy secretary, governor Wang Xiaodong come to Suizhou to check and guide the work of disease prevention and control.
据随州政府官网消息，2月5日晚，湖北省肿瘤医院31人医疗队驰援随州，31位医护人员均来自重症医学专业。
The 31-member medical team from Hubei Province Oncology Hospital arrived in Suizhou province on the night of February 5, according to the government website of Suizhou Province.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文| 南方周末记者 崔慧莹责任编辑 | 汪韬全市只有一家三甲医院，一件防护服穿8个小时也舍不得扔掉，用塑料胶片自制护目镜，买工业酒精自己稀释……医护人员、物资……什么都缺，这是湖北省“北大门”随州市的窘境。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
这个湖北最年轻的地级市有258万人，截至2020年2月5日24时，已有834名新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊患者。
The youngest prefecture-level city in Hubei Province has 2.58 million people, and as of 2400 hours February 5, 2020, 834 people have been diagnosed with pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus.
每1万人中就有3.2人确诊，人群感染率在湖北省位居前列；除了湖北，随州市一个市的确诊患者数已经高于全国大部分省，仅次于浙江、广东和河南省。
The infection rate of the population is among the highest in Hubei Province, and the number of confirmed cases is higher in one city than in most provinces except Hubei Province, after Zhejiang, Guangdong and Henan provinces.
虽然早在1月25日就已经开始公开募集物资，然而直至最近几日，随州市的紧急呼吁才大范围被外界所知。
Although the public collection of supplies had begun as early as 25 January, it was only in recent days that the emergency appeal from Suizhou City became widely known.
2月5日湖北省省委副书记、省长王晓东来随州检查指导疫情防控工作。
February 5, Hubei province deputy secretary, governor Wang Xiaodong come to Suizhou to check and guide the work of disease prevention and control.
据随州政府官网消息，2月5日晚，终于又有湖北省肿瘤医院31人医疗队驰援随州，31位医护人员均来自重症医学专业。
On the night of February 5, another 31-member medical team from Hubei Province's Oncology Hospital arrived in Suizhou Province, 31 of whom were specialists in severe medicine, the government reported.
1危重病人医护人员极少随州市主要有12家医疗机构，其中新冠肺炎疫情的定点医院有5家，但三甲医院只有随州市中心医院1家，1月25日起，这家医院已经三度公开发布公告募集物资。
Only one hospital in the central hospital of Suizhou City is designated for the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia. Since January 25, the hospital has issued three public notices to solicit materials.
“心内科、消化科等科室都抽调了一半的医务人员支援感染科，但医务人员、医疗物资仍不够。
"The departments of cardiology, digestive medicine and other departments have half of the medical staff to support infection departments, but medical personnel, medical supplies are still insufficient.
”随州市中心医院综合科医生苏楠告诉南方周末记者。
Suizhou central hospital general practitioner Su Nan told Southern Weekend reporter.
根据随州市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部（以下简称指挥部）工作人员提供的数据，截止到2月4日24点，全市已投入2123名医生，另有925名医务人员备用，但大多数医护人员的专业能力只能针对一般病人，即便如此，“一个医护人员还要对接好几个病人。
As of 2400 hours February 4, 2,123 doctors and 925 medical personnel were on standby in the city, but the professional ability of most medical personnel was limited to the average patient, even though, according to data provided by the Pneumonia Command (PCC) staff of the new coronavirus infection in Suizhou, China, 2,123 doctors and 925 medical personnel were in reserve.
”指挥部医疗救治科研组工作人员吴青说。
Wu Qing, a member of the command medical research team.
腊月二十九开始，全国各地医疗队陆续驰援湖北，但在湖北省肿瘤医院31人医疗队驰援之前，随州只有来自内蒙古的4人外援。
The medical teams from all over the country began to help Hubei province on September 29th, but before the 31-member medical team from Hubei Province was dispatched, only four people from Inner Mongolia were in Suizhou Province.
医护人员缺乏的核心难题是危重病人医护人员极少。
The core problem for health-care workers is the scarcity of critically ill health-care workers.
“ICU的医生、护士需要专业的知识和能力，我们当地这部分人手不足。
"The doctors and nurses in the ICU need professional knowledge and competence, and we have a shortage of local staff.
”吴青说。
"said Wu Qing.
而医院对危重病人的救治能力，将决定患者的生死。
The hospital's ability to treat critically ill patients will determine their life and death.
截至2月5日24点，湖北省卫健委官网数据显示，随州市已有9个死亡病例。
As of 24: 00 on Feb. 5, the Hubei Wei Health Officer Network data shows that there have been nine deaths in Suizhou.
以往，随州市中心医院的感染性疾病科只是一个科室，可收治病人数量为100人左右，现在临时增加了4个病区，仍觉不足。
In the past, the infectious diseases department of the Central Hospital of Suizhou City was a single department with a capacity of about 100 patients.
吴青介绍，目前全市有能力收治确诊病人的床位数是1975张，除约700位确诊患者仍在住院外，还有至少404例疑似病例，“一些发热患者，甚至头疼感冒的老百姓，感到恐慌也会跑到发热门诊要求住院，床位远远满足不了需求。
Wu said the number of beds available to treat confirmed patients was 1975, with at least 404 suspected cases in addition to about 700 confirmed patients. "Some people with fever, even people with headaches and colds, are frightened and go to the fever clinic to request hospitalization.
”除医护人员、床位短缺之外，防护用品也告急。
In addition to the shortage of medical staff and beds, supplies are in short supply.
按照目前的消耗量，随州市中心医院每天需要的医用防护服、N95口罩、外科口罩分别为1000套、2000只、8000只左右。
According to the current consumption, Suizhou central hospital daily needs of medical protective clothing, N95 mask, surgical mask respectively 1000, 2000, 8000.
苏楠介绍，目前危重病房和发热门诊的医务人员还能拿到全套的防护用品，为节约防护服，他们一班工作8个小时，“不上厕所，不吃不喝”。
Sunan said medical staff in the critical ward and the fever clinic were being provided with a full range of protective gear and were working eight-hour shifts to save on protective clothing, "not going to the toilet, not eating or drinking."
“如果最后实在没办法，我们可能会用普通的帽子代替一下，或消毒后重复使用防护服等。
"If there's no way out, we might replace it with an ordinary hat or reuse the protective clothing after disinfection.
”随州市中心医院负责筹集医用耗材的王光军只能悻悻地未雨绸缪。
Wang Guangjun, who raised medical supplies at the central hospital, moved moodily for a rainy day.
非一线科室的医护人员，一个星期只能分到一个N95口罩。
Non-frontline medical staff can only be given one N95 mask a week.
“有医生把一次性医用口罩用在N95口罩外层，只换外面一层。
"One doctor used a disposable medical mask on the outer layer of the N95 mask and only changed it to the outside.
”苏楠声音沙哑地说。
'said Sunon in a hoarse voice.
普通医用外科口罩也是抢手货，几天前物资最紧缺时，价格从1元/片涨到5.5元/片，“只能买了几千片先应急。
General medical surgical masks are also in demand. When supplies were in short supply a few days ago, the price went up from $1 / piece to $5.5 / piece.
院长说先不考虑钱的问题，医院先垫钱也要让一线医护人员有保障。
Dean said not to consider the issue of money, the hospital to advance money to the front-line health care personnel to be guaranteed.
”王光军告诉南方周末记者。
Wang told Southern Weekend reporter.
更让苏楠意外的是，瓶装的医用酒精也变得如此稀缺。
Surprisingly for Sunon, bottled medical alcohol has become so scarce.
他们科室现在得拎着水桶，去物资耗材科，打来几升95%的工业酒精，自己兑水至75%再分装使用。
Their department now has to carry buckets to the supplies department, calling in 95% of the industrial alcohol and mixing it with water until 75% is repacked.
现在医院想买到口罩更难了。
Hospitals are finding it harder to buy masks these days.
幸好因为公开求援，目前收到少量捐赠。
Fortunately, a small contribution has been received as a result of public appeals.
王光军算了算，目前备有两三万片普通医用口罩，可以用四五天。
Wang Guangjun calculates, at present has two or three thousand common medical masks, can use four or five days.
他已经连续几天向市卫健委上报含氯快速手消毒液的缺口，但至今没得到相关物资的下拨。
He has been reporting a chlorine quick hand sanitizer gap to the city health committee for several days, but so far has not been allocated related materials.
“往常医院里不会用到这种消毒液，所以并没有存货，因为它对冠状病毒（消毒）比较有效，现在想进货也买不到。
"This disinfectant is not normally used in hospitals, so it is not in stock because it is more effective against coronavirus (disinfection) and cannot be purchased now.
我们派人到很多厂家去盯着、守着，有时两三天才能搞到一点货。
We send people to many factories to stare and watch, sometimes two or three days before we get some goods.
”2月3日，山东的一家公司捐了20件快速手消毒液，大概可以再维持两天。
On February 3, a Shandong company donated 20 pieces of quick hand sanitizer, which could last another two days.
王光军甚至对南方周末记者说，只要能有物资，他们可以自己开车去提货，运到高速路口甚至武汉都可以。
Wang Guangjun even told Southern Weekend reporters that as long as supplies are available, they can take their own cars to pick up goods, transport them to high-speed crossroads or even Wuhan.
除了随州市中心医院，随州市多家医疗机构也在积极寻求物资捐赠。
In addition to the central hospital in Suizhou, many medical institutions in Suizhou are actively seeking material donations.
“现在县疾控中心的物资基本上全部都发放到乡镇，每天到的物资，基本上第二天就发空了。
"Now, basically all the materials of the county CDC are distributed to the townships, and the daily supplies are basically empty the next day.
”随县疾控中心一位工作人员说。
"said a CDC worker in Suizhou province.
2大年三十方确认首例随州距离武汉约两百公里，普通火车两小时、高铁一小时可达，大量随州人在武汉就业。
The 30-year-old confirmed that the first Suizhou case is about 200 kilometers away from Wuhan, ordinary trains can reach two hours, high-speed railway can be reached, a large number of people in Wuhan employment.
随州首次发现确诊病例是在2020年1月24日，大年三十。
The first confirmed case was found in Suizhou on January 24, 2020, about 30 years old.
这一时间并不算早，根据国家卫健委官网，截至1月24日24时，全国境内已确认1287例。
According to the National Network of Health Officers, 1,287 cases had been confirmed nationwide as of 2400 hours on 24 January.
这一日，湖北省首次确诊病例的不只有随州市，还有恩施州、鄂州市和天门市。
On this day, not only Suizhou, but also Enshi, Huizhou and Tianmen City were the first confirmed cases in Hubei Province.
在其他省的县城乃至美国和法国都已有确诊病例时，湖北省内城市才首次确诊，被媒体称为“灯下黑”。
Confirmed cases have been found in counties in other provinces, as well as in the United States and France, and were first diagnosed in cities in Hubei Province.
截至2月5日24时，恩施州、鄂州市和天门市的确诊数量也分别达到144、432和138例。
As of 2400 hours on February 5, 144, 432 and 138 cases had been confirmed in Enshi, Huzhou and Tianmen, respectively.
在腊月二十八，苏楠已经接到了一位68岁的女性患者，胸闷乏力，但不发烧，CT显示疑似病毒性肺炎，当晚就取了咽拭子送检，第二天早上病毒核酸检测呈阳性，立即转到了感染科，后来两夫妇都被确诊，因并发症进了急诊重症监护室(EICU)抢救。
On the 28th of December, Sunan had received a 68-year-old female patient with low chest tightness but no fever. CT showed signs of viral pneumonia. That night she took a swabbing swab, tested positive for viral nucleic acid the next morning and was immediately transferred to the infection unit.
“他们说没有去过武汉，但不知道是否接触过从武汉来的人。
"They said they had not been to Wuhan, but did not know whether they had been in touch with people from Wuhan.
”苏楠说，这对夫妇同属最早一批被发现的随州患者。
The couple were among the first to be found in Suizhou, Sunon said.
也在大年三十当晚，1月24日24时起，随州开始“封城”，但此前已回到随州的不少返乡者陆续发病。
Also in the New Year's Eve, January 24, from 2400 hours, Suizhou began to "closure", but has returned to Suizhou before a number of returnees have been sickening.
发现首例之后，随州市1月25日-28日，每日新增确诊病例分别为31、16、18、46例，1月30日之后几日，每日新增病例为七八十人，2月3日居然新增了183例。
After the discovery of the first case, 31, 16, 18 and 46 new cases were confirmed daily in Suizhou from January 25 to 28, and 80 new cases were reported daily in the days after January 30 and 183 on February 3.
据人民网报道，随州还发生两起聚集性感染，均为1月20日之前，去过武汉的随州人回来之后，身体不适，但仍然聚餐，对密切接触者观察后发现，多人确诊。
According to the People's Daily, two cases of conglomerate infection also occurred in Suizhou, both before January 20. After returning from Suizhou people who had been to Wuhan, they did not feel well.
南方周末记者查询随州市政府网站“随州要闻”栏目发现，1月21日之前没有和疫情相关的讯息，在1月1日，武汉华南海鲜批发市场查出多例患者时，也没有相关讯息。
Southern Weekend reporter enquires Suizhou government website "Suizhou key news" column discovers, January 21 does not have the related information, January 21, Wuhan South China seafood wholesale market detected many patients, also did not have the related information.
直至1月22日上午9点，网站刊发了随州日报一条“1月21日，市委书记陈瑞峰主持召开市委常委会会议”的新闻。
Up to 9 a.m. on January 22, the website published Suizhou daily newspaper "January 21, the city party secretary Chen Ruifeng chaired the CPSC meeting" news.
1月23日，全市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部第一次会议召开。
January 23, the city's new coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command held the first meeting.
根据随州市第一场发布会，截止到1月25日0:00，随州市确定定点救治医院5家，设置隔离病房134间，储备密切接触者留观点2处，108个房间、198张床位。
As of 0: 00 on January 25, 5 designated treatment hospitals and 134 isolation wards had been set up in Suizhou, with 2 views reserved for close contacts, 108 rooms and 198 beds, according to the first release of Suizhou City.
疫情日益严峻，感染者不断增加，截至2月4日，随州市的床位数量已增至十天前的十倍，但仍捉襟见肘。
As of February 4, the number of beds in Suizhou had increased tenfold compared with ten days ago, but it was still too low.
随州市中心医院已轮流加班进行核酸检测，但每一批次检测都需要6个小时，一天最多完成200例。
Suizhou Central Hospital has taken turns to work overtime for nucleic acid testing, but each batch takes six hours to complete a maximum of 200 cases a day.
随州也开始采取隔离措施，如随县官方发布显示，2月4日,县统计局主要负责人在唐县镇江义村入户进行体温测量登记。
Separations have also begun in Suizhou, where officials said the head of the county statistics bureau entered the home on Feb. 4 for a temperature check-up in the town of Zhenjiang, Tangxian province.
重点查看道路管控专人值守、返乡人员体温监测、确诊病例密切接触对象摸排与隔离观察等。
Focus on the road control personnel on duty, the return of body temperature monitoring, confirmed cases of close contact with the object mapping and isolation observation.
2月4日，在市委书记陈瑞峰主持召开的市委常委会（扩大）会议暨市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部第五次全体会议上，提出“对全体居民进行体温排查，有发热症状的一律隔离进行医学观察”。
On February 4, at the Fifth Plenary Session of the CPPCC (Enlarged) Conference and the New Coronavirus Infection Control Command in the city, chaired by Mr. Chen Ruifeng, the municipal party secretary, the fifth plenary session of the CPPCC said.
2月5日上午，苏楠说，他们已经接到消息，随州市中心医院将腾出一栋21层的大楼收治病毒性肺炎或疑似病毒性肺炎的患者。
On the morning of February 5, Sunan said they had received word that a 21-storey building would be vacated at the central hospital in Suizhou for patients suffering from viral pneumonia or suspected viral pneumonia.
吴青也向南方周末记者证实，这项工作从2月4日起已在对接当中，“就目前的形势和接到市民电话反馈来看，当前床位已经远远满足不了患者需求了。
Wu also confirmed to Southern Weekend reporter that the work has been under way since February 4, "the current situation and received telephone feedback from the public, the current bed far from the needs of patients.
”如果设想达成，这将是随州的“小汤山”模式。
If that were to happen, it would be the "Xiaotangshan" model in Suizhou.
（应采访对象要求，苏楠、吴青为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
At the request of the interviewee, Sunan and Wu Qingwei gathered Southern Weekend to solicit news leads from all the readers who are on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北随州：31名外援医生终于来了。
Suizhou, Hubei: 31 foreign aid doctors finally arrived.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "湖北随州：31名外援医生终于来了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Hubei Suizhou: 31 foreign-aid doctors finally came to & quot;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
