记录武汉疫情下第一道防线：超300台“红外卫士”守护这个城市。
Wuhan records the first line of defense under the epidemic: more than 300 "infrared guards" guarding the city.
《潜望》。
"Diving".
腾讯科技                      。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯科技。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯新闻旗下腾讯科技官方账号，在这里读懂科技！。
Tencent News Tecent technology official account, here read technology!
受疫情影响，各地对非接触式的红外测温仪器的需求正在持续提升，相关企业订单也在快速增长。
Affected by the epidemic, the demand for non-contact infrared thermometers continues to increase, and related business orders are growing rapidly.
目前以高德红外、大立科技、久之洋、康拓红外等为代表的红外设备企业已积极调配产能，加班加点保障产品生产供应。
At present, the infrared equipment enterprises, such as Gaud Infrared, Dali Science and Technology, Jiuzhi Ocean and Kangtuo Infrared, have been actively deploying production capacity, working overtime to ensure the production and supply of products.
来源：《潜望》作者：郭晓峰XT236，看似很普通的一串字符，却坚守着新型冠状病毒肺炎最严重的武汉的第一道防线。
Source: Penguin writer Guo Xiaofeng XT236, a seemingly common string of characters, clings to the first line of defense in Wuhan, where the new coronavirus pneumonia is most serious.
2月3日，武汉地铁2号线上的中山公园站，武汉高德红外的工作人员正在安装全自动红外体温快速筛查仪，产品型号XT236。
On February 3, Wuhan Metro Line 2 on the Zhongshan Park Station, Wuhan Gao De infrared workers are installing a full automatic infrared temperature screening device, product model XT236.
“今天的任务是中山站B安检口安装一台，C出口两台，汉正街站B出口安装三台，大智路站V和D安检处安装四台。
"Today's task is to install one at the Zhongshan Station B security checkpoint, two at the C exit, three at the Han Zhengjie Station at exit B and four at the Dachui Road Station at the V and D security check points.
目前武汉地铁已安装约30台，基本上实现了全部覆盖。
At present, Wuhan Metro has been installed about 30, basically achieved full coverage.
”高德红外售后服务部经理束军告诉《潜望》。
"Gao De infrared after-sales service manager Jun told" Stealth Prospect.
前一天，武汉火神山医院完成交付，雷神山医院也交付在即，XT236也第一时间安装在这两家医院和供医生住宿的酒店里。
The day before, Wuhan Huoshen Hospital completed delivery, Lei Shenshan Hospital also delivered in the near future, XT236 was the first time installed in the two hospitals and the hotel for doctors.
XT236作为进出人员体温检测的第一道防线，用于保护医护人员及后勤保障人员实时监测体温，有效规避交叉感染。
XT236 is the first line of defense in and out of body temperature testing. It is used to protect medical staff and logistic support personnel to monitor body temperature in real time.
束军的主要工作内容是调度，就是哪里需要安装设备就安排一线工人去安装，其次是提供售后技术服务。
The main work of the bundles is dispatch, that is, where the installation of equipment to arrange for front-line workers to install, and then provide after-sales technical services.
目前，包括武汉天河机场、武汉高铁站、武汉火车站、武汉协和医院等人员流动密集型区域都已部署了XT236。
XT236 is now deployed in mobile-intensive areas, including Wuhan Tianhe Airport, Wuhan High-speed Railway Station, Wuhan Railway Station and Wuhan Concord Hospital.
据束军介绍，从疫情爆发到目前为止，高德红外在武汉安装了近300台红外体温快速筛查仪，全省超过500台。
Up to now, Gao has installed nearly 300 infrared temperature screening devices in Wuhan, more than 500 of them in the province, according to Bei Jun.
“整体数量还在不断增加中。
"The overall number is increasing.
”面对已经开始的春运返潮，防控成为重中之重，尤其是对于体温的检测。
In the face of the spring rush that has already begun, prevention and control is a top priority, especially for temperature testing.
到目前为止，近两千台高德红外所生产的全自动红外体温快速筛查仪已经安装到了北京、上海、广东、福建、浙江、江苏、四川、云南、安徽等全国多地的医院、车站、机场等人流密集的公共场所。
Up to now, nearly 2,000 fully automatic infrared temperature screening devices have been installed in public places such as hospitals, stations and airports in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Fujian, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Sichuan, Yunnan and Anhui provinces.
一个画面最多可测百人体温据束军介绍，从去年12月底开始，高德红外的就已开始对一些场所就行设备安装。
Since the end of December last year, Goldberg Infrared has been operating on a number of sites, according to the army.
“我们是具备疫情防控能力的专业技术型企业，所以警觉性比较高，第一次看到冠状病毒肺炎的新闻后就开始有所准备。
"We are a professional and technical enterprise with the capability of disease prevention and control, so we are alert and ready for the news of coronavirus pneumonia.
”17年前的SARS疫情事件，在中国的疫情防治能力还不够成熟的大背景下，规模尚小的高德红外就研制出能有效提高疫情检测效率的第一代红外人体测温设备。
In the wake of the SARS epidemic 17 years ago, when China's epidemic prevention and control capabilities were not mature enough, Gaud Infrared, a small-scale infrared device, developed the first generation of infrared human temperature measuring devices that could effectively improve the efficiency of epidemic detection.
“现在这已经是高德的第四代红外测温产品，经过多轮迭代后，最新的设备能实现人脸检测，无需接触即可实现采集旅客额温，超出一定范围才发出拦截警报，无发热症状的旅客快速通过时基本无感。
"Now this is Goethe's fourth generation of infrared thermometers. After several iterations, the latest equipment can detect faces without touching, and the interception alarm is issued beyond a certain range. Travellers with no fever symptoms pass through quickly without feeling any sense.
”高德红外民品技术总负责人王鹏介绍道。
"Gao De Infrared civilian goods technology chief executive Wang Peng said.
据束军回忆，1月14日接到疫情通告之前，每天安装量大概是几台，14日当天开始加大安装量。
Before receiving the notification of the outbreak on January 14, the army said it would install about a few units a day, and began to scale up the installation on the 14th.
“那一天就安装了近50台，工人连续干了两天没休息，目前一天最高安装上百台。
"Nearly 50 units were installed that day and workers have been without rest for two days, with up to a hundred installed a day.
”在他和一线安装工人眼里，多装一个设备，就意味着能让更多人不被感染。
For him and the front-line installers, one more device means more people are not infected.
体温测量设备主要分为接触式和非接触式，两者最大的区别为是否接触被测者的皮肤，目前疫情防控用的大多都为非接触式测温仪，XT236属于后者。
Body temperature measuring equipment is divided into contact and non-contact, the biggest difference between the two is whether to contact the subject's skin, most of the current disease prevention and control use of non-contact thermometers, XT236 belongs to the latter.
之所以称它为疫情防控的第一道防线最主要原因是：“非接触式测温”、“大规模人群实时体温测量”、“自动抓取发热人群”这三个特点。
The main reasons for calling it the first line of defense for epidemic prevention and control are: "non-contact temperature measurement," "real-time mass temperature measurement of the population," "automatic hot-grabbing people."
新冠肺炎作为一种传染病，其最大的防治难点在于近距离接触时的高传染性。
As an infectious disease, the most difficult problem of new crown pneumonia is high infectivity in close contact.
传统的水银温度计、额温枪、点温仪等测温工具都需要与被测人员进行直接或近距离接触，这就带来了极大的交叉感染风险。
Traditional thermometers, such as mercury thermometers, frontal temperature guns and point-to-point thermometers, require direct or close contact with the person being tested, which poses a significant risk of cross-contamination.
而红外体温快速筛查仪可以很好地解决这个问题，其不仅不需要与被测人员进行直接接触，还能在保持相当检测距离的情况下使检测结果不受影响。
But the infrared temperature rapid screening instrument can solve this problem, not only does not need to have the direct contact with the tested person, but also can maintain the detection distance without the influence of the test result.
以XT236为例，其最大测温距离达到了10米，这就大大降低了检测人员工作时的接触风险。
In the case of XT236, for example, the maximum temperature measurement distance was 10 m, which significantly reduced the exposure of the tester at work.
解决了测温接触性这个难点后，还需要保证测温工作的时效性。
After solving the difficulty of measuring the temperature contact, it is necessary to ensure the time-effectiveness of temperature measurement.
像火车、飞机、长途汽车站等人员流动密集型场所是春运返潮防控的重点，更需要时效性。
Such as trains, airplanes, long-distance bus stations and other places are the focus of spring transportation back tide control, more time-effective.
红外体温快速筛查仪对人体红外辐射的探测则是实时进行的，通过算法得出体温数据更是以毫秒为单位，系统在工作时，根本不需要人群做任何停留，一旦人进入到设备监测范围后，便可立即测得体温数据。
The detection of infrared radiation by infrared screening instrument is carried out in real time, and the temperature data is measured in milliseconds by the algorithm. When the system works, there is no need for people to make any stops.
而热成像的另一大优势就是能够获取温度分布图像，也就是能够获得一个画面全部的温度数据，因此即便是大规模人群同时进入到系统的监测范围内，也可以同时测得所有人的体温数据。
Another advantage of thermal imaging is the ability to obtain temperature distribution images, that is, to obtain all the temperature data of a picture, so that even large-scale population into the monitoring of the system, can also be measured at the same time temperature data of all.
据束军介绍，只要人员进入镜头有成像、有画面就可以显示其体温。
According to Bei Jun, as long as the people into the camera imaging, there is a picture can show their body temperature.
“通常我们会把超出镜头设定范围最远和最近的边缘人员屏蔽，等他进入范围再测，这样做目的是为了提高精准度。
"Normally we shield the person who is furthest out of range of the lens and the nearest edge person until he's in range again," he said.
目前同一视频界面可同时检测超过50人，多的时候上百人，具体要看人员在镜头里的位置和密度。
At present, the same video interface can detect more than 50 people, more than 100 people, depending on the location and density of the camera.
单日检测量依据场所不同也不同，像机场种类场所超过10万乃至百万很正常。
The number of one-day tests varies from place to place. It is normal for an airport to have more than 100, 000 or even 1 million sites.
”红外设备的安装位置并非随意，室内、恒温、通风、角度是确保精准测温的关键。
Infrared devices are not installed randomly, and indoor, constant temperature, ventilation and angle are key to ensuring accurate temperature measurement.
加上校温，它是一个很漫长的过程。
Add in the temperature and it's a very long process.
“为了更精准的测温，按照人体温度的范围我们需要逐个校对温度，并把对应数据及曲线置入设备中，最终设备测温精度高达≤±0.3℃，这个精度在全球已经非常高了。
"In order to measure temperature more precisely, we need to calibrate the temperature individually according to the temperature range of the human body and place the corresponding data and curves into the equipment. The final equipment temperature measurement accuracy is ≤ ± 0.3 ° C, which is already very high in the world.
”束军说。
"said the beam.
由于机场火车站人流非常密集，如果只是测量所有人的温度，那么工作人员筛查的工作量依旧很大，甚至需要24小时一刻不停的盯着电脑屏幕，不然随时可能有发热人员漏掉，而造成更大的问题。
Because airport train stations are crowded, if only the temperature of everyone is measured, then the workload of staff screening is still very large, even 24-hour non-stop staring at the computer screen, or there may be hot people leakage at any time, resulting in greater problems.
鉴于这样的应用场景，XT236专门设计了“自动报警抓拍”功能。
In view of this kind of application scene, XT236 specially designed the "automatic alarm capture" function.
系统可以设置一个报警温度，例如37.3℃，在实时监测范围内多人的体温时，系统会自动将获取的温度和报警温度做一个比较，一旦高于37.3℃，系统便会自动报警，同时自动记录当前发热人员的红外温度图像和可见光图像，以供工作人员的查看和确认。
The system can set an alarm temperature, such as 37.3 ° C, and automatically compare the temperature obtained with that of the alarm when multiple people are monitored in real time. Once above 37.3 ° C, the system automatically alarms the system and automatically records infrared and visible images of current heating personnel for inspection and confirmation by staff.
同时XT236还通过先进的AI算法，具有人脸识别功能，只测量人脸温度，同时自动追踪抓取多个发热人员。
XT236 also uses advanced AI algorithms to recognize faces, measure face temperature only, and automatically track and grab multiple fevers.
产能暂时缺口较大 5G助力受疫情影响，各地对非接触式的红外测温仪器的需求正在持续提升，相关企业订单也在快速增长。
A temporary capacity gap of 5 gigabytes is affected by the epidemic, the demand for non-contact infrared thermometers is constantly rising, and related business orders are growing rapidly.
目前以高德红外、大立科技、久之洋、康拓红外等为代表的红外设备企业已积极调配产能，加班加点保障产品生产供应。
At present, the infrared equipment enterprises, such as Gaud Infrared, Dali Science and Technology, Jiuzhi Ocean and Kangtuo Infrared, have been actively deploying production capacity, working overtime to ensure the production and supply of products.
“红外测温设备过去主要用在机场、口岸等出入境地方，产量安装并不大，去年出货量也就几百台，此次疫情让大众进一步认识了红外设备并很快在全国普及起来。
"Infrared thermometer equipment used to be used in airports and ports of entry and exit, and its output was not large. Last year it shipped only a few hundred units.
目前，我们每天全国交付产品大约300台，是过去一年，甚至两年的总量。
At present, we deliver about 300 units nationwide every day, which is the total for the past year or even two years.
”束军对《潜望》说。
"said the beam to Le Quai.
众所周知，之前红外设备多用于军品，民用较少。
It is well known that infrared equipment was mostly used for military products and less used for civilian use.
2003年SARS疫情，高德红外研制的第一代红外人体测温设备便投入使用并起到关键作用。
SARS epidemic in 2003, Gaud infrared development of the first generation of infrared temperature measurement equipment is in use and plays a key role.
2013年正式投入运行红外热成像产业化基地，实现探测器国产化，打破了国外的技术封锁。
In 2013, the industrial base of infrared thermal imaging was put into operation to realize the localization of the detector and break the foreign technology blockade.
目前的高德红外工业园已建成覆盖底层红外核心器件至顶层完整光电系统的全产业链研制基地。
At present, Gaud Infrared Industrial Park has been built to cover the bottom infrared core devices to the top of the complete photoelectric system industry chain development base.
由于高德红外体温快速筛查系统全部使用的是高德自产、具有自主知识产权的红外探测器，由于核心器件不受制于人，使得高德红外能在疫情爆发的初期生产、供货相对比较充足。
Because the Gaud infrared temperature screening system uses Gaud's own infrared detector with its own intellectual property rights, the lack of a human-controlled core device makes Gaud's infrared capable of producing and supplying relatively well in the early stage of the outbreak.
据了解，高德红外目前还在不断开发、升级其他产品，计划推出3-4种型号来应付疫情防控，并新增了15000套的生产计划，即将以每天1000套的速度生产，在短时间内提供更多的产品以支持全国各地的疫情防控工作。
It is understood that Gaud Infrared is still developing and upgrading other products, plans to launch 3-4 models to deal with the epidemic, and a new production plan of 15,000 units will be produced at a rate of 1000 units per day, providing more products in a short time to support epidemic prevention and control throughout the country.
除了面向大型人群的红外体温快速筛查仪外，高德红外的手持测温仪也在加大供货。
In addition to rapid infrared temperature screening for large populations, Goethe's hand-held thermometer is increasing its supply.
另一家红外企业浙江大立科技也表示，截至2月2日，大立科技总计已有超千余台套设备部署至武汉、湖北疫区，北京、上海、浙江、江苏、广东等近20个省区市及港澳台地区的机场枢纽、火车站、海关口岸、医院及写字楼等人员密集场所。
As of February 2, more than 1,000 sets of equipment had been deployed to Wuhan, Hubei epidemic areas, nearly 20 provinces and cities in Beijing, Shanghai, Zhejiang, Jiangsu and Guangdong, as well as airports and railway stations, customs ports, hospitals and office buildings in Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, another infrared company said.
大立科技还强调，公司目前产能充足，可根据疫情防控需要进一步提高产能。
Dali technology also stressed that the company currently has sufficient capacity, according to the need to further improve disease prevention and control capacity.
银河证券最新发布研究报告显示，根据2月2日工信部网站最新信息，目前工信部共收到各地各方面来自红外体温检测仪需求的大概2万台，手持式是30余万台，以上数据只是初步预估。
According to the latest information from the Ministry of Industry and Communications website on February 2, the Ministry of Industry and Communications has received about 20,000 sets of demand from all over the world for infrared thermometers and more than 300,000 hand-held devices, according to the latest information from Yinhe Securities' website.
根据疫情防控形势的测算，工信部预计，全市场对全自动红外体温检测仪的需求大概6万台，手持式约55万台。
Based on estimates of the epidemic situation, the Ministry of Industry and Communications estimates that there is a market-wide demand for fully automated infrared thermometers of about 60,000 units and 550,000 hand-held devices.
从目前的市场产能来看，缺口较大。
Judging from the current market capacity, the gap is large.
杭州麦乐克科技股份有限公司董事长吕晶在接受《中国电子报》采访时表示，截至1月31日，杭州麦乐克红外测温敏感元器件已经发了40万套给客户用于红外测温仪的生产。
As of January 31, 400,000 units had been distributed to customers for use in the production of infrared thermometers, Lu Jing, chairman of Hangzhou-based Mellork Technology Co., Ltd. told China Electronic News.
“尽管已经‘连轴转’了，但仍无法全面满足客户们的需求，缺口还是很大，公司也在安排更多的员工协助加班生产。
"Even though the company has been 'connecting the axis', but still can not fully meet the needs of customers, the gap is still large, the company is also arranging more staff to assist in overtime production.
”吕晶说。
'she said.
一位行业人士在接受《潜望》采访时表示，春节复工率低，加上受疫情影响物流受限是导致产能跟不上的主要因素，但这应该是暂时的。
The low rate of resumption of work during the Spring Festival, coupled with logistical constraints due to the epidemic, should be temporary, an industry source said in an interview with Le Poten.
随着节后陆续复工，市场需求缺口有望逐步填平。
With the resumption of work after the section, market demand gap is expected to gradually fill.
目前，类似崇达技术作为红外体温检测及相关医疗设备的核心元件供应商，在相关部门的支持下，目前部分产线已复工。
At present, as the core component supplier of infrared temperature detection and related medical equipment, some production lines have been resumed with the support of relevant departments.
值得一提的是，红外设备与5G的结合在此次疫情抗击中也引起关注。
It should be noted that the combination of infrared devices and 5G also caused concern in the fight against the epidemic.
2月2日，广东移动推出“5G+红外”测温信息化应用，与上述传统红外设备最大不同的是，它更灵活。
February 2, Guangdong Mobile launched the "5G + infrared" temperature measurement information application, and the traditional infrared equipment is the biggest difference, it is more flexible.
广东移动信息集成中心林效在接受《潜望》采访时表示，5G红外测试系统可满足大数据量、高移动性场景需求，通过5G通讯技术，充分提升了方案的适用范围。
The 5G infrared testing system can meet the demand of large data volume and high mobility scene, and the scope of application of the scheme is fully enhanced by 5 G communication technology, Lin Xiao, the Guangdong Mobile Information Integration Center, said in an interview with Qiangwang.
一方面，传统红外测温设备通过网线实现数据传输，局限了设备的应用场景。
On the one hand, the traditional infrared temperature measuring equipment realizes the data transmission through the network line, which limits the application scene of the equipment.
5G技术出现很好地满足了这一需求，系统可随时根据使用需求、人流情况等因素调整位置。
The emergence of 5G technology to meet this demand, the system can be adjusted at any time according to the use of demand, flow of people and other factors.
另一方面，红外测温系统可通过5G技术与视频监控平台对接，一是与后端的人脸识别功能相结合，有效实现测温后的人员溯源；二是实现测温情况的集中监控，提升工作效率。
On the other hand, the infrared temperature measurement system can be docked with the video monitoring platform by the 5G technology. First, it can combine with the face recognition function of the back end, and it can effectively realize the personnel tracing after temperature measurement.
据了解，广东省已200余套设备紧急部署实施，目前已落地广州南沙万达广场、汕头金平区人民医院、韶关武江区人民政府等重点项目，预计后续将在全省部署过千套。
It is understood that Guangdong Province has more than 200 sets of equipment emergency deployment, has now landed in Guangzhou Nansha Wanda Square, Shantou Jinping District People's Hospital, Shaoguanwu District People's Government and other key projects. It is expected that thousands of units will be deployed throughout the province.
“已有超过100家单位向广东移动提出使用“5G+红外”测温应用需求。
"More than 100 units have asked Guangdong Mobile to use" 5G + IR "for temperature measurement applications.
”林效说。
'she said.
疫情面前，红外测温筑起了第一道防线。
In the face of the epidemic, infrared temperature measurement built the first line of defense.
它们就像是一双探知热量的眼睛，能快速找出并追踪体温较高的人员，在紧张与奔波中守护着全国人民的平安。
They are like a pair of heat-detecting eyes that can quickly find and track people with high body temperatures, guarding the safety of the nation in the midst of tension and rush.
点击图片阅读更多点击在看，即刻变好看。
Click on the picture to read more clicks in the look, instantly becomes good-looking.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
记录武汉疫情下第一道防线：超300台“红外卫士”守护这个城市。
Wuhan records the first line of defense under the epidemic: more than 300 "infrared guards" guarding the city.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯科技";。
Var nickname = & quot; T & T & quot;;
var msg_title = "记录武汉疫情下第一道防线：超300台“红外卫士”守护这个城市";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情面前，红外测温筑起了第一道防线。
var msg _ desc = & quot; IRT built its first line of defence against the epidemic.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在美华人驰援武汉：陌生人的微信捐款、艰难的分发与最后的100万只口罩',。
Wuhan: Strangers' micro-donation, tough distribution and last 1 million face masks & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '京东武汉战事：金银潭医院500米处，“为机枪手递上子弹”',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="腾讯科技";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & T & quot;;
