史上最大规模在家办公开始：孩子是最大障碍频繁拉群是常态。
The biggest home office start in history: children are the biggest obstacle to frequent group pulling is the norm.
《潜望》。
"Diving".
腾讯科技                      。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯科技。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯新闻旗下腾讯科技官方账号，在这里读懂科技！。
Tencent News Tecent technology official account, here read technology!
疫情的影响让很多公司都选择了在线办公，但这也催生出两种工作状态。
The epidemic's impact has led many companies to opt for online work, but it has also spawned two working conditions.
有些人的工作，因为在线办公，自己比以往更有空间了；而有些人的工作，因为在线办公，变得无事可做。
Some people work because they work online, they have more room than they used to, while others work because they are online and have nothing to do.
来源：《潜望》作者：濮祥王潘2月3日，原本是春节假期过后返工的第一天，但是由于受到新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情影响，不少公司都选择了在线办公。
Source: Pu Xiangwang Pan February 3, originally the first day of rework after the Spring Festival holiday, but due to the new coronavirus pneumonia, many companies chose to work online.
当天早上9点，由于上万企业同时开启线上办公，其中有不少企业要求开“视频晨会”，此举甚至让众多在家没有做好妆容准备的女性暴露在同事的屏幕前。
Tens of thousands of businesses opened their doors online at 9 a. m., and many of them asked for 'video mornings,' exposing even a handful of unmade-up women to their co-workers' screens.
当天，全国有数亿人开启在家办公模式。
Hundreds of millions of people across the country started working from home that day.
由于同时在线视频会议的人数超过历史最高值，远程办公软件中用户数最大的企业微信和钉钉等都曾出现过短暂「奔溃」的情况，不得不紧急扩容网络和云资源，以确保网络通畅和用户体验。
With the number of simultaneous online videoconferences surpassing all-time highs, there has been a brief "rout" in telecommuting software for the largest number of users, such as micromail and tacks, which has necessitated the urgent expansion of networks and cloud resources to ensure network connectivity and user experience.
目前的中国正上演一场全球最大的在线办公试验。
China is currently hosting one of the world's largest online office trials.
然而，这也是一场被动的、临阵才开始准备的实验，因此也有诸多需要解决的问题。
However, it is also a passive, ad hoc experiment, so there are many problems to be solved.
诸如如何确保工作有序高效，如何完成KPI考核，如何平衡工作与生活，线下属性强的岗位如何操作等，都是每个企业的管理者需要面临的问题。
How to ensure the work order and efficiency, how to complete the KPI examination, how to balance work and life, how to operate the position with strong on-line attribute are all the problems that managers need to face.
我们采访了多家在线办公企业的内部员工，试图呈现出不同领域、不同岗位的在线办公样本。
We interviewed a number of online office workers, trying to present online office samples in different fields and positions.
有些人的工作，因为在线办公，自己比以往更有空间了；而有些人的工作，因为在线办公，变得无事可做。
Some people work because they work online, they have more room than they used to, while others work because they are online and have nothing to do.
《在家远程办公指南》终于在小米成为“指南”2月3日一早，雷军驱车来到位于北京海淀区的小米科技产业园，准备小米的开工仪式。
"Guide to telecommuting at home" In the early morning of February 3, Lei Jun drove to the Millet Science and Technology Industry Park in Haidian District of Beijing to prepare for millet start-up ceremony.
不过，相比以往小米员工到他的办公室哄抢红包，今年小米园区冷清了许多。
However, compared to the previous millet staff to his office rob red packets, this year millet park a lot of cold.
仅有雷军、王川、刘德、王翔、卢伟冰等近十位高管来到总部现场开会，国际部总裁周受资、集团副总裁张峰等人都通过视频电话形式接入。
Only Lei Jun, Wang Chuan, Liu De, Wang Xiang, Lu Weibing and other nearly 10 executives came to the headquarters of the meeting on the spot, President of the International Department Zhou Zuozhi, vice-president of the Group Zhang Feng, and others through the form of video telephone access.
小米内部通知要求，2月3日至7日员工实行远程办公，2月10日恢复到岗办公，除必要返回工区工作的岗位，请尽量远程办公。
Millet internal notification requirements, February 3 to 7 employees telecommuting, February 10 to resume work, except for the necessary return to work in the work area, please try to telecommute.
也就是说，今天前往小米总部开工的仅有小米高管，以及负责人力、后勤保障的员工。
That is to say, today only millet executives, as well as those in charge of human resources, logistics and staff.
刘梵在小米某款智能产品团队工作，负责项目外部商务合作。
Liu Fan works in a small millet smart products team, responsible for external business cooperation projects.
早在一个多月前就买好了1月底从南方老家回北京上班的机票，然而由于疫情的发展，他不得不取消了航班。
More than a month ago, he bought a ticket to work in Beijing from his southern hometown in late January, but he had to cancel his flight because of the outbreak.
春节刚过去两天，小米HRBP就开始在公司通知，春节没有带电脑回家的员工可以在内部申请借用物资，以便在家办公使用。
Just two days after the Spring Festival, millet HRBP began to inform the company that employees who did not bring a computer home for the Spring Festival could apply internally to borrow goods for use at home.
在审核通过以后，集团行政部将为急需笔记本临时办公的同学提供备用笔记本邮寄服务。
After the approval of the audit, the Group Administration Department will provide a backup notebook mail service for students who need laptops on a temporary basis.
不过，刘梵自己老家有电脑可用，也就没有申请。
However, the Brahman's own home computer is available, so he has not applied for it.
之前在小米内部，刘润在得到App上发布的《在家远程办公指南》广为流传，据说这是雷军亲自推荐小米员工去读的，以便让员工在家工作也能保持战斗力。
Previously, Liu ran in the App issued by the "Home Telecommuting Guide" widely circulated, is said to be recommended by Lei Jun millet employees to read, so that employees can work from home can also maintain combat effectiveness.
刘润在文章中建议，远程办公应该加强定期沟通，比如早会制度和晚报告制度。
In his article, Liu suggested that telecommuting should be strengthened through regular communication, such as morning meetings and late-night reporting.
只有早上保证大家都在同一时间上班，是能够协作的基础；而晚上对当天工作的结果进行汇报，才能保证执行。
Working at the same time in the morning is the basis for collaboration, and reporting on the results of the day's work at night ensures implementation.
刘润还建议，一定要把工作区和休息区分开，还要清晰地区分好工作与休息时间，这样远程工作才能既保证高效，又能劳逸结合。
Liu also suggested that it is important to separate the work area from the rest area, and that a clear distinction be made between work and rest so that telecommuting can ensure both efficiency and integration.
刘梵告诉腾讯新闻《潜望》，小米内部采纳了不少刘润的建议，各个部门对于远程办公都提出了明确要求。
Liu told Tencent News "latent hope," millet has adopted a number of internal Liu Run's recommendations, departments have made clear requirements for telecommuting.
刘梵所在的部门，需要每天早上10点在企业协作软件上召开视频会议，每个人都需要对自己当天的工作计划进行汇报。
Mr. Liu's department needs to hold videoconferences on corporate collaboration software at 10 a.m. each morning, and everyone needs to report back on their work plans for the day.
而到了晚上7点，每个人又需要填写表格，对于自己当天的工作进展进行汇报。
At 7 p. m., everyone has to fill out another form to report on the progress of their day.
刘梵在春节放假期间，每天都睡到自然醒。
During the Spring Festival holiday, Liu Fan sleeps until he wakes up naturally.
但是随着远程办公的开启，他的起床时间也必须做出调整。
But with the opening of telecommuting, his wake-up time must be adjusted.
前几天可以睡到11点半以后起来吃第一顿饭，但因为3号开始远程办公，全家都因为他改变了作息和吃饭时间，妻子9点前就起来做了早餐，以前一天两餐也需要被改成三餐。
The first few days after 11: 30 can sleep up to eat the first meal, but because the third began telecommuting, the family because he changed the rest and meal time, his wife before 9 o'clock to cook breakfast, the previous day two meals also need to be changed into three meals.
然而，到了上班这天，刘梵一开始还是没有将工作和生活分开，面临被打扰的问题，因为家中既有老人又有小孩，所有人围在客厅里的一个火炉边坐着，很难集中精力工作。
However, when it came to work, he did not separate work and life, and faced the problem of being disturbed because he had both children and old people, and everyone sat around a stove in the living room, making it difficult to concentrate.
他刚拿出电脑准备开始工作，7岁的女儿就说想要玩速算24小游戏，好不容易晓之以情动之以理说服对方，3岁的小儿子又不依不饶喊着要看“挖挖机”（即挖掘机），不答应就在地上打滚。
He had just taken out his computer and was about to start work when his 7-year-old daughter said she wanted to play 24-minute computer games, but she managed to convince her that her 3-year-old son would not hesitate to watch the "digging machine" (i.e., a digger) and would roll on the ground.
刘梵没有办法，只好跑到卧室把门关上才能工作。
There was no choice but to run to the bedroom and shut the door before he could work.
但是又遇到一个新的问题，南方很多郊区的住户冬天紧靠火炉取暖，卧室并没有安装空调，他只好裹上一层厚厚的毛毯在卧室蜷缩着与合作伙伴沟通。
But a new problem is that many suburban residents in the south keep warm by stoves in winter, and their bedrooms are not air-conditioned, so he curls up in his bedroom in a thick blanket to talk to his partners.
一个8000多名同事的沟通群赵云是奇安信一位负责安全项目的员工，原本计划春节期间带老婆孩子去南方游玩几天，但一切安排都被疫情打乱了，他不得不宅在北京的家里度过春节。
Zhao Yun, a security worker with more than 8,000 colleagues, had planned to take his wife and children to the south for a few days during the Spring Festival, but everything was disrupted by the outbreak and he had to spend the Spring Festival at his home in Beijing.
赵云原本以为到正月初七，就可以正常回到公司上班。
Zhao Yun originally thought that by the seventh day of the first month, can return to work normally.
然而，自1月28日（正月初四）起，他就开始了线上工作。
However, he has been working online since January 28, the fourth day of the month.
还有一些人比他更早，那就是奇安信公司的管理层，自1月25日紧急成立新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控支援团后，就一直采用在线办公。
Others, even earlier than him, are the management of Ciansen, which has been operating online since the emergency establishment on January 25 of the New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia Support Mission.
1月27日（正月初三），奇安信内部员工接到高管通知，公司须紧急发货给建设中的武汉火神山医院，以确保火神山医院按期完成建设。
January 27 (the third day of the first month), Qian'an internal staff received senior management notice, the company must urgently deliver to Wuhan fire god mountain hospital under construction, to ensure that the building of the fire god mountain hospital on schedule.
第二天一早，赵云也开始了自己的工作，武汉火神山医院前方有众多负责技术的同事彻夜奋战，他在后方负责后勤保障和外部需求对接。
The next morning, Zhao Yun also began his own work, Wuhan fire god mountain hospital in front of a number of technical colleagues fighting throughout the night, he is responsible for logistics and external demand docking.
但他并不是一个人，因为公司各个部门的人都以不同的形式参与了这件事。
But he was not alone, because people from all parts of the company were involved in it in different ways.
到2月3日，公司全员正式开始远程工作。
By February 3, the company's full complement officially began to work remotely.
当天，奇安信董事长齐向东让同事在蓝信App上拉了一个8000多同事都在的工作群，在线上举行了一场特殊的新年开工仪式。
On the same day, Cianxin's chairman Qi Xiangdong asked his colleagues to pull a group of more than 8,000 colleagues on the Blue Letter App and held a special New Year's opening ceremony online.
赵云告诉腾讯新闻《潜望》，当天早上9点半，自己很有仪式感地穿起了一套正装，在客厅的沙发上打开笔记本电脑，准备开始进入工作状态，但一旁的小孩总是前来捣乱，时不时胡乱按几下键盘。
Zhao Yun told Tencent News that at 9: 30 in the morning, he had ceremoniously put on a suit, opened his laptop on the sofa in the living room and was getting ready to start working, but the kids would come around and hit the keyboard a few times.
他只好拿起电脑往书房里跑，将自己关在室内，才换来一些安宁。
He had to pick up the computer to run into the study, shut himself indoors, just in exchange for some peace.
早上10点，奇安信分布在全国的8000多名职工一起上线开启远程办公，共同点亮奇安信战“疫”地图，用这种特殊签到开工的方式，宣誓共同抗“疫”。
At 10 a.m., more than 8, 000 of Cianxin's employees across the country joined forces to open telecommuting to light the Chiangxin battle "epidemic" map, using the special sign-in method to pledge to fight the epidemic.
不过，由于当下形势仍然严峻，齐向东也就没有像年会或除夕那样给大家发开工红包。
However, since the current situation is still serious, Qi east also did not like the annual meeting or New Year's Eve to give everyone a red envelope.
赵云所做的功能很多可以直接通过线上完成，比如与外部机构的沟通。
Much of what Zhao does can be done directly online, such as communicating with outside organizations.
2月3日上午，他所在的部门小群里召开了一个线上会议，他的工作任务之一就是完成与一些机构的沟通。
On the morning of February 3, an online meeting was held in his department's small group, and one of his tasks was to complete communication with a number of agencies.
晚上6点半，部门再次开会，各自汇报自己的工作进展。
At 6: 30 p.m., the department met again to report on the progress of its work.
在奇安信，有不少员工是纯线上的技术人员，如敲代码的程序员，他们线上办公时的考核则更为直接，比如当天敲了多少代码，进展如何，领导看了一目了然。
At Qian'an, many employees are pure line technicians, such as code-knocking programmers, who are more direct in their online work, such as how much code is knocked out on the day, how it goes, and what the leader sees at a glance.
不过，也有很多线下强需求的岗位，仅依靠线上办公就很难完成。
However, there are also a lot of jobs with strong demand offline, which can be difficult to accomplish just by working online.
比如此次发往武汉火神山医院的网络安全设备，就需要技术高手到前方完成建设，这样的工作仅通过线上根本无法完成。
For example, this issue to Wuhan fire god mountain hospital network security equipment, need to master technology to the front to complete the construction, such work simply through the line can not be completed.
线上办公面临瓶颈的还包括销售等线下强需求岗位，由于奇安信的客户往往是企业，在合作前需要大量的前期沟通，因此如果此前双方不熟悉，很难直接通过线上完成从零到一的销售。
Online offices also face bottlenecks that include strong offline demand for jobs, such as sales, since Qian'an's customers are often businesses that require a lot of upfront communication before working together, so it is difficult to complete a zero-to-one sale directly over the line if both sides are not familiar.
不过，好在这样的日子不会太久。
But the good news is that it won't be long.
奇安信内部通知，仅在2月3-7日进行线上办公，北京总部定于2月10日到公司办公。
Qian'an internal notice, only February 3-7 on-line office, Beijing headquarters is scheduled to be February 10 office.
人工智能公司：远程办公已经习以为常国内一家大型人工智能（AI）公司刘女士正在努力适应远程办公，2月1号从老家回北京后，听从公司安排，刘女士在家办公。
Artificial Intelligence: Telecommuting has become commonplace Ms. Liu, a large domestic artificial intelligence (AI) company, is trying to adapt to telecommuting.
实际上，从过年放假后，回到老家，基本都是远程办公状态。
In fact, from the Chinese New Year holiday, back home, are basically teleworking state.
该公司在发展过程中，办公室分散在北京、深圳、香港等不同城市，开电话会议成为平时的一种工作习惯。
In the process of its development, the company's offices are scattered in Beijing, Shenzhen, Hong Kong and other different cities, teleconferencing has become a normal work habit.
有同事不在一起，比如有一些同事在客户那边驻厂，不在公司；或者有销售拜访客户，也不在公司，通过电脑或者手机接入会议。
Some co-workers are away, like some co-workers who are stationed at the customer's premises, not in the company, or sales people who visit customers or are not in the company, through computers or mobile phones to access meetings.
“大家一起看PPT，或者一起看文档，都挺方便。
"It's convenient for people to watch PPT together, or to look at documents together.
”刘女士说。
"said Mrs. Liu.
像在海外的同事，也是通过远程系统与国内连线。
Like colleagues overseas, it is also connected to the country via a remote system.
“听他们一会讲日语，一会讲英语，急了用中文嚷嚷。
"Listen to them for a while to speak Japanese, a while to speak English, urgent in Chinese yell.
”考虑到北京平日里拥挤的交通，公司同事已默认不一定非得把所有人都召集起来开会，“你想开会的时候，随时抄起电话就开会了。
Given Beijing's usually congested traffic, company colleagues have acquiesced in the fact that it is not necessary to call everyone together for meetings.
”在家远程办公，可以节省上班路上时间。
Telecommuting from home can save time on the way to work.
偶尔有些担心，同事之间感情，面对面可能更直接、更方便。
Occasionally worried, colleagues between feelings, face-to-face may be more direct and convenient.
但是好像也没什么特殊事情必须要大家当面。
But there seems to be nothing special that needs to be done in person.
刘女士有一个8岁半孩子，居家办公司，与孩子在一起相处时间更多了，不像之前更多是周末才能在一起。
Ms. Liu, who has an eight-and-a-half-year-old, runs a home-based company and spends more time with her children than on weekends.
“有利的一点是让孩子看到我的工作状态，我是怎么工作的？比如说我是很专注工作，起一个示范作用，让孩子知道要集中注意力去做一件事。
"The good thing is to show my kids how I work, how do I work, for example, I'm focused on my job and I serve as a model for kids to know to concentrate on one thing.
不利的一点，因为他是小孩，毕竟控制不住自己，偶尔也会跑过来打扰你一下，哭啊、闹啊，这个也很正常。
The disadvantage, because he is a child, after all, can not control themselves, occasionally run to disturb you, cry ah, ah, this is normal.
其实你在公司，难免会遇到各种各样事情来打扰你。
In fact, you are in the company, inevitably encounter a variety of things to disturb you.
与之相比的话，小孩打扰时间算相对比较可控。
In comparison, the interruption time of children is relatively controllable.
”居家办公不利之处，“我觉得还是不利于整体团队合作，因为同事之间还是需要见面沟通、加深感情，我真的这么觉得。
The downside of working from home is that "I don't think it's good for the team as a whole, because people still need to meet and connect and deepen their relationships.
有的时候，倒不一定说我非得给你打个电话聊，才能聊出一些灵感。
Sometimes, it doesn't necessarily mean I have to call you to talk about something inspirational.
有的时候同事之间闲聊，无疑之中能够碰撞出来一些灵感，尤其是像广告、传播比较创意性的行业。
Sometimes a colleague chats, no doubt can collide with some inspiration, especially in the advertising, dissemination of more creative industries.
”刘女士说。
"said Mrs. Liu.
不过，刘女士注意到，公司大型的数据中心，“也是电脑，可以远程访问。
However, Ms Liu notes that the company's large data centre, "is also a computer that can be accessed remotely."
公司里留几个IT同事把公司电脑开起来，其他人远程访问。
Several IT co-workers were left in the company to turn on the company's computer and others accessed it remotely.
”疫情发生之后，公司参与了政府的一些研发项目，“前期也是相对比较远程地沟通，也不一定都是需要面对面，非得要在现场。
Since the outbreak, the company has been involved in government research and development projects, "communicating relatively remotely in the early stages, not necessarily face-to-face, but necessarily in the field.
”刘女士说。
"said Mrs. Liu.
“我觉得线上开电话会议工具都能够满足需求，至于长远的影响，这个也不太好讲，因为毕竟刚开始。
"I don't think online conference calls can meet the demand, and for the long-term impact, it's not easy to say because it's just started."
”远程沟通工具中，除了日常的微信和电话，公司采用了视频会议系统。
The company uses videoconferencing systems in addition to its daily tweets and phone calls.
这个系统有一个摄像头和屏幕，与会者拨会议号码可以直接开电话会。
The system has a webcam and a screen that allows participants to dial the conference number to open the meeting directly.
如果不在公司的，提前安装APP，通过手机或电脑接入。
If not in the company, install APP ahead of time, via mobile phone or computer access.
如果要访问内网，就是用公司VPN。
If you want to access the intranet, use the company VPN.
突然而至的远程办公商机作为一家远程办公产品的供应商，春节过后，小鱼易连CEO袁文辉在做的是加速生产。
As a supplier of telecommuting products, Yuan Wenhui, CEO of the small fish company, is speeding up production after the Spring Festival.
《潜望》与袁文辉通过微信沟通是在晚上10点钟，在这之前，袁文辉一整天手机和电脑都连接着电源，忙着与全国各地销售团队远程沟通。
Yuan Wenhui communicated with him by micromail at 10: 00 p.m. Yuan Wenhui had been connected to his cell phone and computer all day and was busy communicating with sales teams all over the country.
因为疫情发生后，一些政府有远程统一管理，疫情防治、防控需要，包括医院在内很多企业要准备节后在家上班、远程协作，需求一下子就被激发出来了。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, some governments have managed the disease in a unified and long-range way, and many enterprises, including hospitals, need to prepare for work at home and collaborate remotely after the outbreak.
小鱼易连“每天的商机量是平时的几十倍。
"Small fish Yi Lian" daily business opportunities are dozens of times.
”袁文辉说，“从年三十到现在就没休息过。
"I haven't had a rest since I was 30," Yuan said.
”这是小鱼易连创立至今迎来的爆发式增长。
This is the explosive growth that fish Yi Lianlian has created to date.
袁文辉介绍，政府部门以前都是用传统视频会议，用专线等等。
Yuan Wenhui introduced, the government department used to use traditional video conference, use special line and so on.
但是现在要做疫情防治，需要用移动端把不同的部门全部连接在一起，“这时候我们基于互联网、基于智能硬件的解决方案优势一下子展现出来了。
But now to do the epidemic, we need to use the mobile end to connect all the different departments together, "at this time our Internet-based, intelligent hardware-based solution advantages suddenly emerged.
举个简单例子，像遂宁市一个地级市，只用8个小时就搭建了一个空中医院，把112个定点发烧医院和市卫健委、疾控中心全部通过云视频方式全部连接在一起，然后就可以统一管理、统一协调。
For example, an air hospital in Suining, a prefecture-level city, was built in just eight hours, and 112 designated fever hospitals and city health committees and disease control centers were all connected by cloud video, so that they could be managed and coordinated.
”遂宁市医院8个小时搭建的空中医院，“因为我们方案是基于互联网的，在我们的设备插一个4G卡，一开机就行了。
Suining Hospital, an eight-hour aerial hospital, said: "Because our plan is Internet-based, just put a 4G card in our device and turn it on.
”通过小鱼易连系统，四川省人民医院专家查房，不需要去到现场了，直接通过云视频远程方式。
Through the small fish-linked system, experts from the Sichuan People's Hospital searched the rooms, eliminating the need to go to the scene and using remote methods via cloud video.
疫情时候，在隔离病房也能够起到很大作用，病人在隔离病房里面跟外界沟通全部通过云视频就可以解决。
Outbreak time, in isolation ward can also play a great role, patients in the isolation ward with the outside world to communicate all through the cloud video can be resolved.
袁文辉认为，这次疫情让大家尝试了一种全新的工作手段和方式，对有些人来说，会发现这个方式挺高效，疫情结束之后，可能还会局部采用远程办公模式。
Yuan said the outbreak has allowed people to try a new way of working, and for some, it will prove to be highly effective, with telecommuting as a possible partial solution after the outbreak.
对于那些从来没有尝试过远程办公的，这一次大家就会体验到云视频价值和意义，疫情过去之后，肯定绝大多数人还会回到正常办公室里面办公。
For those who have never tried telecommuting, this time you will experience the value and significance of cloud video, and when the epidemic is over, most people will return to their normal offices.
但是正是因为有了这次体验，对于在家办公、远程办公，未来采用这个技术、产品和服务可能性就更高了。
But just because of the experience, it's even more likely that the technology, products and services will be used in the future for telecommuting and telecommuting.
“对于我们公司来说，疫情之前我们已经是这种状态，公司所有员工分布在全国30多个城市，本来就只能通过云视频远程工作，在家工作、在火车上工作、在酒店工作，这对我们来说就是一个常态。
"For our company, we were where we were before the epidemic, with all our employees in more than 30 cities across the country, working remotely via cloud video, working from home, working on trains, working in hotels, that was the norm for us.
”袁文辉从一个远程办公的早期推动者角度审视未来远程办公可能性，得出的结论是相对保守。
Yuan Wenhui looked at the possibility of future telecommuting from the perspective of an early promoter of telecommuting and concluded that it was relatively conservative.
“你想想在北上广深，大家平均家里头有多大工作面积？有自己独立书房吗？当你的孩子在家时候，你能够在那儿真正工作吗？有一张自己书桌都不是那么容易，一平米要十多万元。
"Think about how much room everyone has on average in the north? Have your own study? Can you really work there when your kids are at home? It's not easy to have your own desk, which costs more than 100,000 yuan a square metre.
”他认为，除了工作环境，在家工作是一件挺有挑战的事情，要有足够自律。
In addition to the work environment, working from home can be challenging and requires a lot of self-discipline, he said.
实际上，在家办公在美国是一个常态东西，美国有3000多万人在家办公，一个星期在家办公四天，回公司跟同事喝咖啡、见面。
In fact, working from home is the norm in the United States, where more than 30 million people work from home for four days a week, returning to work for coffee and meetings with colleagues.
疫情之前，小鱼易连满足过一些医院的远程会诊、远程查房和远程病理分析需求，遇到疫情之后，这些需求爆发了。
Prior to the outbreak, fish Yi Lianlian met the needs of some hospitals for remote consultation, remote room inspection and remote pathology analysis, which erupted after the outbreak.
此前，医疗领域在小鱼易连公司业务占比比较小，主要业务来自政务、金融、教育和公司办公。
Previously, the medical sector in the small fish Yi Lian company business is relatively small, the main business from the government, finance, education and office.
不过，袁文辉在这个领域遇到了竞争对手华为，华为通过设备和云一起打包，小鱼易连则联合腾讯云、联通沃云等一起合作。
However, Yuan Wenhui in this field met competitors Huawei, Huawei through equipment and cloud packaging, small fish Yi Lianlian is united Tencent cloud, Unicom rich cloud and so on cooperates together.
袁文辉认为，每个企业采用云视频，都能够把原来部门效率提升。
Yuan Wenhui thinks, every enterprise adopts cloud video, can raise original department efficiency.
他举个一个例子，像HR层面，面试全部是云视频，降低了时间成本。
He gives an example, like HR, where interviews are all cloud video, reducing time costs.
即使对一些创意性、创造性脑力工作，需要大家在一起脑力激荡的场景，袁文辉也认为可以用云视频激荡替代。
Even for creative, creative intellectual work that requires brainstorming together, Yuan also thinks cloud video can be used instead.
“现在云视频已经到了什么阶段？跟面对面没有什么区别。
"What stage has cloud video reached now? It's no different from face-to-face.
我有好的想法在白板上面写，全国各地同步可见，大家都可以同时在白板上面写。
I have good ideas written on the whiteboard, which can be seen all over the country, and you can write on the whiteboard at the same time.
我在这儿改代码，同事都可以看见的，就跟你坐在旁边没区别。
I change the code here, and my colleagues can see it, just like you're sitting next to me.
”点击图片阅读更多点击在看，即刻变好看。
Click on the picture to read more clicks in the look, instantly becomes good-looking.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
史上最大规模在家办公开始：孩子是最大障碍频繁拉群是常态。
The biggest home office start in history: children are the biggest obstacle to frequent group pulling is the norm.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯科技";。
Var nickname = & quot; T & T & quot;;
var msg_title = "史上最大规模在家办公开始：孩子是最大障碍频繁拉群是常态";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情的影响让很多公司都选择了在线办公，但这也催生出两种工作状态。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在美华人驰援武汉：陌生人的微信捐款、艰难的分发与最后的100万只口罩',。
Wuhan: Strangers' micro-donation, tough distribution and last 1 million face masks & amp; apos;.
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '手机厂商难越寒冬：手机店主称“今年只求能活下来”',。
Rarely did cellphone makers get cold winters: Cell phone owners say they only wanted to survive this year.
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="腾讯科技";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & T & quot;;
