新冠病毒检测：试剂盒产能达每天90万人份 日检万人实验室将建成。
New Crown virus detection: kit capacity of up to 900,000 people per day laboratory will be built.
潜望。
Keep your eyes open.
腾讯科技                      。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯科技。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯新闻旗下腾讯科技官方账号，在这里读懂科技！。
Tencent News Tecent technology official account, here read technology!
来源：《潜望》作者：卜祥抗击新型冠状病毒疫情早期矛盾之一是检测试剂盒产能不足，无法快速区分真假患者，确诊病人。
Source: Poixiang: One of the early contradictions in the fight against the new coronavirus epidemic is the insufficient production capacity of the detection kit to quickly distinguish between true and false patients and to identify the patient.
为解决这一矛盾，根据国家药品监督管理局网站消息，截至1月31日，国家药品监督管理局根据《医疗器械应急审批程序》，已应急审批7个新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂，提升试剂产量，供应社会。
To resolve this contradiction, as of January 31, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Administration had given emergency approval to seven new coronavirus nucleic acid detection reagents in accordance with the Procedures for Emergency Approval of Medical Devices, so as to increase the production of reagents and supply the society.
国家药品监督管理局一位工作人员告诉《潜望》：“我们这边掌握的数据是这7家加起来每天有接近90万人份以上试剂盒生产能力。
"The data we have here is that the seven together have a production capacity of more than 900,000 test kits per day," a SDA official told Le Quest.
”至于这些试剂盒能否快速派到一线，进行诊断，满足使用？“目前我们掌握到他们那边每天的检测量肯定是到不了这么多的（90万人份）。
As for whether the kits could be sent to the front lines quickly enough for diagnosis and use, "we now know that they can't get as many tests a day as that (900,000 people).
”2月3日早间，工信部在新闻发布会上表示，2月1日，新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂日产量已经达到了77.3万人份，是疑似患病者的40倍，已经基本满足要求。
In the morning of February 3, the ministry told a news conference that the daily production of the new coronavirus nucleic acid reagent had reached 773,000, 40 times the number of suspected patients on February 1.
追求检测速度留下隐患1月20日武汉宣布“封城”之后，在湖北武汉、黄冈、孝感等多地，用于确诊的检测试剂盒告急，大量患者徘徊在医院门外，无法及时确诊。
Wuhan announced on January 20, "closed the city", Hubei Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety, and other places, used for the diagnosis of the test kit urgent, a large number of patients wandering outside the hospital, unable to timely diagnosis.
这种情况下，1月24日，大年三十，全国很多地方在动员，给湖北地区配送试剂盒。
In this case, January 24, about 30, many parts of the country is mobilizing to deliver kits to Hubei region.
早前湖北一些地方的人一提到“试剂盒”，语调都有些激动，“试剂盒紧缺，直接影响了病例的确诊。
Earlier, people in some places in Hubei Province mentioned the "kit", the tone is a little excited, "test kit shortage, directly affected the diagnosis of the case.
”在社交网络上，求助消息也越来越多。
There is also a growing number of calls for help on social networks.
在试剂盒紧握的同时，宣称提升确诊速度的消息时有出现，甚至出现过度追求速度的不良现象。
At the same time as the test kit clenched, claims to improve the speed of diagnosis when the news, even excessive speed of the undesirable phenomenon.
1月30日，消息称新型冠状病毒的检测时间将有望缩短至1个小时内。
On January 30, it was reported that the new coronavirus detection time will be reduced to one hour.
由重庆大学牵头承担的项目“研制2019-nCov快速检测试剂盒”，主要是研究基于新型冠状病毒核酸的快速提取、快速检测、高通量（即单次可完成几十乃至上百个样品的处理）方法，建立用于病人快速初筛的检测体系并开发试剂盒。
The project, "Development of 2019-nCov Rapid Detection Kit," led by Chongqing University, focuses on rapid extraction, rapid detection, high throughput (that is, the processing of dozens or hundreds of samples at a time) based on the new coronavirus nucleic acid.
目前，项目组已成功研制出2019-nCov快速检测试剂盒样品，已在重庆市疾控中心和重庆市公卫中心开展临床验证。
Currently, the project team has successfully developed 2019-nCov rapid test kit samples, which have been clinically verified at the CDC and Chongqing Public Health Center in Chongqing.
第二天，央广新闻微信公众号发文称，“确诊提速！30分钟出结果的检测试剂盒获批。
The next day, CCTV News Weixin public message said, "the diagnosis speed up! 30 minutes out of the results of the test kit approved.
”此为圣湘生物科技股份有限公司新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒产品。
"This is a new coronavirus nucleic acid test kit for the San Xiang Biological Technology Co. Ltd.
经读者指出后，央广新闻微信号运营者更正了说法，表示圣湘此检测试剂盒（荧光PCR法）产品，并非是30分钟出检测结果的产品。
After readers pointed out, CCTV News micro-signal operator corrected the statement, saying that this test kit (fluorescent PCR) products, not 30 minutes out of the test results.
更有人宣称8-15分钟确诊新冠病毒核酸试剂盒研制成功。
Others claim to have successfully developed a new crown virus nucleic acid kit in 8-15 minutes.
与疫情抢赛跑过程中，出现了试剂盒乱相。
During the race against the epidemic, there was a case of disarray.
对此，华大基因一位工作人员向《潜望》表示出担忧。
In response, a staff member of Huada Genome to "latent hope" expressed concern.
1月26日，华大集团（下称“华大”）旗下的华大基因和华大智造2家公司的2个产品——新型冠状病毒检测试剂盒和DNBSEQ-T7测序系统，正式通过了国家药监局应急审批程序，成为首批正式获准上市的抗击疫情的检测产品。
On January 26, two products of Huada Group (Huada) and Huada Intelligence Co., two companies - a new coronavirus detection kit and a DNBSEQ-T7 sequencing system - officially passed the SFDA emergency approval procedures and became the first test products to be officially approved for the market.
《潜望》拨打国家药监局电话，一位工作人员接听了电话，他表示，已经关注到市面上“鱼龙混杂”的试剂盒现象。
A staff member who answered the phone call from the State Administration of Pharmacy said he was concerned about a "mixed bag" of test kits.
国家药监局批准的都是2-3小时完成检测的新型冠状病毒试剂盒产品，这个时间是从样本提取到完成所有的检测，采用的检测方法是荧光PCR法。
All the new coronavirus kit products approved by the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision and Administration have been tested in 2-3 hours. This time from the sample extraction to the completion of all the tests, using fluorescent PCR method.
“十几分钟完成检测的产品报道我们也看到了，但是这些产品目前也没有在我们这边申报，所以它采用什么样的原理，什么样的方法学我们并不是掌握得特别准确。
"We've seen reports of products that have been tested in ten minutes, but these products are not currently being declared here, so we don't know exactly what principles and methodologies it uses.
”当前处于疫情应急局势，这位药监局工作人员称，“疾控系统任何产品用于疫情的紧急应用不需要我们这边批准；常规使用的，像这些医疗机构常规使用的诊断试剂是需要批准的。
"Emergency use of any product from the disease control system for emergency applications does not require our approval," the FDA official said. "Conventional diagnostic reagents, such as those routinely used in these medical institutions, need to be approved.
”一位业内人士向《潜望》分析，圣湘生物科技被批准的同样是常规荧光PCR法产品，整个所需时间为2小时左右。
One industry insider told Diving Vision that the same conventional fluorescent PCR product was approved for St-Xiang Biotech, taking about two hours.
目前圣湘主推的分子检测技术诊断POCT技术平台是属于毛细管荧光定量模式，需要特制的毛细管耗材，宣称30分钟出检测结果，没有提及整个反应时间。
At present, the PCT technology is a capillary fluorescence quantitative model, which needs special capillary materials. It claims 30 minutes to release the test results, and no reference is made to the reaction time.
PCR最大特点就是实时，样本检测为阳性的时间与样本浓度相关，按照理论，目前的常规荧光定量PCR只要样本浓度高，可实现30分钟出结果，如果逆转录时间短，则时间会更短。
The greatest feature of PCR is real-time, and the time taken to test a positive sample is correlated with the concentration of the sample. According to theory, the current conventional quantitative fluorescence quantitative PCR can achieve a result of 30 minutes if the sample concentration is high and shorter if the retrospective time is short.
但是这样会造成追求速度的同时，造成效率下降，也就是低浓度样本漏检。
However, this results in the pursuit of speed while also causing a reduction in efficiency, that is, the low concentration of samples missed.
这位业内人士表示，“目前疫情严重，无症状者或轻症者体内浓度低，如果一味追求反应快，可能会造成漏检。
"The current epidemic is severe, with low concentrations in asymptomatic or mild cases, which can lead to under-detection if there is a quick response," the insider said.
分子POCT使用是需要场景的，首先考虑家用或者隐私问题，其次床旁。
Molecular POCT use requires scene, first consider household or privacy issues, and then bed side.
目前是新冠病毒是公共卫生事件，各个医疗机构都有大量样本，需要通量高的解决方案，需要解决是多的问题，而不是快的问题。
At present, the new crown virus is a public health event, with a large number of samples from all medical institutions, requiring high-throughput solutions that need to be addressed more frequently than quickly.
”错检、漏检从何而来实际上，漏检、错检已经引起重视。
Where did the wrong inspection and omission come from In fact, the omission inspection and the wrong inspection have attracted much attention.
多位临床医生对试剂盒准确性提出疑问。
Many clinicians questioned the accuracy of the kit.
尽管“漏检”属于小概率事件，但保证试剂盒结果的高准确性仍对疫情防控有重大意义。
Although "missing detection" is a low probability event, it is of great significance to ensure the high accuracy of test kit results.
据1月30日《人民日报》报道，天津一例新型冠状病毒患者在1月25日、1月28日共进行了三次核酸检测，都为阴性，但是在1月30日的第四次检测中呈阳性。
A case of a new coronavirus in Tianjin tested negative for three nucleic acid tests on January 25 and January 28, but tested positive for the fourth time on January 30, the People's Daily reported.
为什么会有前三次检测阴性，第四次检测阳性的情况出现？PCR方法检测需要专业实验室，由专业人员操作。
Why are there the first three negative tests and a fourth positive test? PCR testing requires a professional laboratory, operated by a professional.
这是一个非常精密的过程，它可能会受到一些因素干扰。
This is a very sophisticated process and it can be interfered with by a number of factors.
比如说样本采集，是一个非常关键因素。
Sample collection, for example, is a key factor.
如果样本污染了，或者采集到了痰液不是呼吸道深部的痰液，病毒的载量比较低，没有达到实际检测灵敏度量度，或者提取的过程不是很规范等等，这些因素都有可能影响检测的结果。
If the sample is contaminated or sputum is collected that is not deep in the respiratory tract, the viral load is low, the actual detection sensitivity is not measured, or the extraction process is not standardized, all of these factors may affect the test results.
相关专家也有给出一些案例。
Relevant experts have also given some examples.
中国工程院院士、国家卫健委高级别专家组成员李兰娟曾表示，有些病例早期时候可能痰里面不一定有病毒，所以检测不出来。
Li Lanjuan, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a member of the high-level panel, said some cases may not have viruses in the sputum earlier in the year so they cannot be detected.
实际上，检测试剂从方法学来说很难做到百分之百。
In fact, detection reagents are difficult to achieve 100 per cent methodologically.
在卫健委发布的诊疗方案里面明确说明，试剂检测结果，要充分考虑、结合流行病学和临床表现进行一个综合判定。
The diagnosis and treatment plan issued by the health care committee clearly states that the results of reagent testing should be fully considered, combined with epidemiological and clinical manifestations for a comprehensive assessment.
至于一个病人从发现到确诊，需要多长时间？牵涉到一些医学方面诊疗规定，得考虑流行病学，是否过去疫区，是否与传染病人接触过，还有各种临床表现。
How long does it take a patient from discovery to diagnosis? There are medical procedures involved, epidemiological considerations, past epidemics, exposure to infectious diseases, and various clinical manifestations.
考虑到具体检测在收集、处理、运输或保存等过程中可能问题，厂家在新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒中在“检测方法的局限性”中，写明多种因素可导致出现假阳、假阴。
Taking into account the possible problems in the collection, processing, transportation or storage of the coronavirus, the manufacturers in the new coronavirus nucleic acid test kit, in the "limitations of the detection method," write that a variety of factors can lead to pseudo-yang and sham.
日检1万病例的实验室即将完工据国家药监局工作人员介绍，市面上新型冠状病毒检测、确诊大致分两种方法。
According to the State Administration of Pharmacy, the new coronavirus detection and diagnosis in the market can be roughly divided into two ways.
中国疾病预防中心病毒病预防控制所官网1月29日发布最新信息显示，其研制新型冠状病毒(2019-nCoV)核酸等温扩增快速检测试剂盒，可在8-15分钟内出结果，极大缩短检测时间，配套等温扩增仪器可自动判读结果。
A new strain of coronavirus (2019-nCoV) nucleic acid amplified rapid detection kit can produce results in 8-15 minutes, greatly shortening detection time, and matching isothermal amplification instruments can interpret the results automatically, according to new information released on Tuesday.
而药监局目前批准的是荧光定量PCR方法，这是卫健委在新型冠状病毒疾病诊疗指南、诊疗规范中明确的方法。
At present, the FDA has approved the fluorescent quantitative PCR method, which is a clear method in the new-style guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of coronavirus disease.
这个方法检测出结果，需要2到3个小时。
This method detects the results and takes two to three hours.
“8-15分钟内出结果，可能是采用了一些新方法学，但这些方法学没有经过我们批准，所以它的准确度、灵敏度是不是能达到相同产品的标准，我们没法对它进行一个认定。
"The result within 8-15 minutes may be the adoption of new methodologies, but they have not been approved by us, so we cannot make a determination as to whether it is accurate and sensitive enough to meet the same product standards.
”这位药监局工作人员强调。
The FDA official stressed.
华大基因一位工作人员告诉《潜望》，就PCR检测方法来说，检测结果精确度，与样本数据丰富程度、试剂盒与用料好坏等都有关系。
The accuracy of the test results is related to sample data richness, kit and materials used for PCR testing, a Huada staff told Le Quest.
一位业内人士透露，试剂盒储存条件严苛，需要零下18摄氏度低温，加上材料，价格不菲，一人份试剂盒价格在100元-200元，利润空间的存在本身就是对从生产、制造和流通过程提出管理挑战。
The existence of profit margins is itself a management challenge to the process of production, manufacture and circulation, according to one industry source. The kit is extremely difficult to store and requires a low temperature of minus 18 degrees Celsius, plus materials, and the price of one kit is between $100 and $200.
现在，随着国家药监局批准的7家公司产品上市，早期由中国疾控中心指定的3家供货试剂盒的窘境已经化解。
Now, with the release of seven products approved by the State Administration of Pharmacy, the three supply kits originally designated by China's CDC have been defused.
接下来，国家药监局表示，如果需要，将继续审批通过新的试剂盒生产公司和产品。
Next, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision said, if needed, will continue to approve through the new kit production companies and products.
整体压力现在往下游传导，提供更多诊断实验室和专业人员。
The overall pressure is now transmitted downstream to provide more diagnostic laboratories and professionals.
华大基因工作人员告诉《潜望》，一个名叫“火眼”的武汉疫情病毒检测实验室，即将投入使用。
Huada's genetic staff told Le Quest that a Wuhan virus detection laboratory, called the Eye of Fire, was about to be put into use.
这个由武汉市与东湖新技术开发区政府依托华大基因建的2000平方米”火眼”实验室，即将完工，每天可检测1万名疑似病例。
The 2,000-square-meter "Firehole" laboratory, built by Wuhan and Donghu New Technology Development Zone, is nearing completion and can detect 10,000 suspected cases a day.
点击图片阅读更多点击在看，即刻变好看。
Click on the picture to read more clicks in the look, instantly becomes good-looking.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠病毒检测：试剂盒产能达每天90万人份 日检万人实验室将建成。
New Crown virus detection: kit capacity of up to 900,000 people per day laboratory will be built.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯科技";。
Var nickname = & quot; T & T & quot;;
var msg_title = "新冠病毒检测：试剂盒产能达每天90万人份 日检万人实验室将建成";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; 900,000 daily.
var msg_desc = "试剂盒的产能已经基本满足要求。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; the production capacity of the kit has almost met all its requirements.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉新型冠状病毒，这篇科普全讲明白了',。
This piece of science fully includes & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“老干妈”陶华碧：我不坚强，就没得饭吃',。
T: I wasn't strong enough to have Ricky & apos; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="腾讯科技";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & T & quot;;
