在美华人驰援武汉：陌生人的微信捐款、艰难的分发与最后的100万只口罩。
Assistance to Wuhan in the United States: donations from strangers, difficult distribution and the last 1 million masks.
潜望。
Keep your eyes open.
腾讯科技                      。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯科技。
Tencent Technology.
腾讯新闻旗下腾讯科技官方账号，在这里读懂科技！。
Tencent News Tecent technology official account, here read technology!
来源：《潜望》作者：纪振宇在接受连线时，电话那一头的宋燕，正在前往办理非盈利机构账户的路上。
Source: Ji Zhenyu is on his way to a nonprofit account at the other end of the line.
“我跟Home Depot那边打听到了，他们还可以订100万个口罩，”宋燕说，“但是只有非盈利机构才能够订购，无法以个人名义购买。
"I found out from Home Depot that they could also order a million masks," Song said. "But only non-profit organizations can order them and can't buy them as individuals.
”新冠病毒疫情肆虐牵动着海外华人的心，尽快寄送口罩和其他医护用品到最急需的地方，成为了许多身在海外的华人们最朴素的愿望。
The ravages of the new crown virus have gripped overseas Chinese, and sending masks and other medical supplies to where they are most needed as quickly as possible has become the simplest wish of many overseas Chinese.
居住在美国加州硅谷地区的宋燕就是这其中的一员，她从最初的个人采购，到联合了周围的朋友组成采购志愿者小组，已经将成百上千的口罩和医护用品寄送回国内，但是最终这些口罩是否真正送达了一线医护人员的手中，宋燕对《潜望》表示，感觉像是“石沉大海”，完全无从知晓。
Song Yan, who lives in Silicon Valley, Calif., was one of those people who sent hundreds of masks and medical supplies home from her initial personal purchases to a team of friends from around the country.
有一批口罩因为是海外产品与国内标准不相符，被某院方定义为“三无”产品而拒绝发放给一线医护人员。
One group of masks was defined by a hospital as "three-nil" and refused to be given to front-line medical staff because they were foreign products that did not meet domestic standards.
“太平洋都跨过了，最后几米的距离，（口罩）就是没法送到医护人员的手上。
"Across the Pacific Ocean, the last few meters away, [masks] just can't get to the paramedics.
”宋燕对《潜望》说。
"Song Yan said to" Diving Hope.
但她依然没有放弃努力，在办理非盈利机构账户的同时，她和志愿者团队寄送的第四批捐助货物，已经在浙大美国校友会安排的专机上正飞往上海的途中，由上海慈善总会接收。
But she has not given up. The fourth batch of donated goods, sent by her and her volunteer team while she was on her way to Shanghai on a special plane arranged by the American Alumni Association of Zhejiang University, was received by the Shanghai Charity Federation.
“武汉那边送不到，我们只好选择寄往别的城市。
Wuhan can not deliver, we have to choose to send to other cities.
”宋燕说。
"said Song Yan.
“许多没见过的朋友在微信上转账给我”宋燕是家住美国硅谷地区的华人，职业是会计师，来美国工作生活已经15年，曾就职于普华永道会计师事务所，目前自己经营一家事务所。
"Many friends I have never met have forwarded to me on micromail." Song Yan is a Chinese living in Silicon Valley, a professional accountant who has been working and living in the United States for 15 years, worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers and now runs a business of his own.
1月22日，刚忙完一个项目的宋燕回到家中，正在看电视的母亲告诉她：“新闻里说了，武汉医护人员的口罩都不够用了。
On January 22, Song Yan, who was busy with a project, returned home and was watching TV when her mother told her, "In the news, Wuhan medical staff are not wearing enough masks.
”宋燕说，之前有听说新型冠状病毒疫情在国内变的越来越严重，但没想到已经到了这个程度。
Song Yan said she had heard of a new coronavirus outbreak in China has become more serious, but did not expect to have reached this level.
“知道这个消息以后，我下意识的反应是：赶快去买些口罩寄回去。
"My knee-jerk reaction to the news was to go get some masks and send them back.
”宋燕说。
"said Song Yan.
当晚，宋燕便去往家附近的Home Depot大型连锁店，把这家店里货架上能找到的几十箱3M口罩和防护服全部买下，她还拍下了Home Depot工作人员爬上梯子为她取货的照片，并随手发在了朋友圈上。
That night, Song Yan went to the Home Depot chain and bought dozens of cases of 3M masks and protective clothing that could be found on the store's shelves. She also took pictures of Home Depot staff climbing up ladders to retrieve her goods, which she then handed out to friends.
“听说要寄到武汉灾区，Home Depot的Mark爬上高架子给我找口罩和防护服。
Mark of Home Depot climbed on a high shelf to find me a mask and protective clothing.
”宋燕在朋友圈上写道。
"Song Yan wrote in a circle of friends.
接下来，事情发展地有些出乎她的意料。
Then things went a little way beyond her wildest expectations.
她的一些平日里熟悉的朋友，开始在微信上给她转账，诉求只有一个：“委托宋燕多买一些口罩，寄给武汉的医护人员。
Some of her usual acquaintances began to transfer money to her on a micro-letter, requesting only one: "Entrust Song Yando to buy some masks and send them to Wuhan medical staff.
”宋燕深受感动，她将收到的转账都截图并发在朋友圈上，接下来，更多的人转账给她，同样希望她多帮忙买一些口罩，寄给在第一线奋战的医护人员。
"Song Yan was so moved that she captured all the money she received and posted it in a circle of friends, and then more people transferred to her, again hoping she would buy more masks and send them to front-line health workers.
宋燕22日采购的口罩等医护用品塞满了车后备箱“许多人我只是加了微信，甚至没见过面，”宋燕说，“他们有在美国的，也有国内的，有一些是日常工作上的联系。
"Many people I've just written off, I haven't even met," Song said. "They're in the United States, some at home, some on a daily basis.
”宋燕展示给《潜望》的微信截图显示，截至1月29日，她个人捐款89573.6元人民币，收到捐款75045.8元，这笔钱用于购买护目镜1000个总共30000元。
As of Jan. 29, she had made a personal donation of Rmb89573.6 and received a donation of $75045.8, which was used to purchase 1,000 goggles for a total of 30,000 yuan, according to Song's micrograph showing the movie.
此外还从支付平台Venmo收到5人共计538美元的捐款，现金捐款100美元，支票捐款1113.72美元，Paypal捐款6,232美元。
In addition, contributions totalling $538 were received from the payment platform Venmo, $100 in cash contributions, $1113.72 in cheque contributions and $6,232 in Paypal contributions.
“目前已经从美国发出两批口罩、护目镜和防护服，1月27日搭乘海南航空，”宋燕对《潜望》说，“第二批货物1月29日发出，经红十字、中国邮政绿色通道送往武汉。
"Two batches of face masks, goggles and protective clothing have been issued from the United States. On January 27, Hainan Airlines," Song Yan told the newspaper, "The second consignment was sent to Wuhan on January 29 by the Red Cross and China Post Green Channel.
”“太平洋都跨过了最后几米距离就是送不到医生的手上”由于此前从未有过相关经验，最初宋燕完全是个人自发捐助，后来又联合了一些朋友帮忙去做医疗物资采购。
"The last few meters across the Pacific is out of the hands of a doctor." Soong Yan, who had never had any previous experience, donated entirely on her own initiative and later joined a group of friends to help with the procurement of medical supplies.
“最多的时候我们的采购群有30几个志愿者，”与宋燕同为志愿者的Cathy说，“有些志愿者早上5点多就出门去扫货，经常晚上11点都还在外面采购。
"Most of the time we had about 30 volunteers," said Cathy, who volunteers with Song Yan.Some of the volunteers went out to do their laundry at more than 5am and often went out shopping at 11pm.
”1月23日，宋燕组织的第一箱货物通过美国邮政USPS邮寄，但这批货要2月5日才能到货，她总结说是因为缺乏相关的经验，否则不会找这么慢的物流渠道。
On January 23, Song Yan sent her first case by USPS, but the shipment would not arrive until February 5, concluding that it would not have been possible to find such a slow logistical route because of a lack of experience.
“接着第二批货我们找到一个可靠的海外物流，总共5个包裹，通过海航的绿色通道到达北京红十字会，再由北京红十字会当天转到武汉红十字会。
"" Then we found a reliable overseas logistics, a total of five parcels, through the Green Channel to the Beijing Red Cross, and then the Beijing Red Cross that day to the Wuhan Red Cross.
”负责海外物流的Cathy说。
"said Cathy, in charge of overseas logistics.
除此之外，宋燕和志愿者组织想到了直接将医疗物品寄送给医护人员个人的办法，他们联系了国内的资源，建立了一个与医生的对接群，第三批货物通过物流公司，以个人包裹的方式，共选取了8家医院的工作人员，直接邮寄给个人。
In addition, Song Yan and volunteer organizations thought of ways to send medical supplies directly to individual medical personnel. They contacted domestic resources and set up a docking group with doctors. The third batch of goods was sent directly to individuals through the logistics companies, using a personal package of eight hospitals.
“我们要求对接群内的医院对接人在入群前先验明身份，然后收货后将个人工卡和医院收据共同拍照，以保证这些物资确实送到了医护人员的手中。
"We asked the hospital in the docking group to identify the person prior to entering the group and then to take pictures of the personal work card and the hospital receipt together to ensure that the supplies actually reached the medical staff.
”宋燕说。
"said Song Yan.
但即便是这样，根据宋燕的叙述，这批口罩依然无法最终交到在疫情第一线工作的医护人员手中。
But even so, according to Song Yan's account, the masks are still not in the hands of health-care workers on the front line of the outbreak.
“一批口罩被一家医院认定为是“三无”产品，”宋燕说，“因为是美国购买的，并不符合中国的相关标准，因此院方拒绝将这些口罩直接交给医生用。
"A number of masks were identified by a hospital as" three-nil "products," Song said. "Because they were purchased by the United States and did not meet Chinese standards, the hospital refused to give the masks directly to doctors.
”宋燕感到纳闷又无奈，自己都是在美国正规零售店里购买的3M口罩，怎么到了国内就成了“三无”产品？“连太平洋都跨越了，口罩都到了医院，最后几米的距离，就是送不到医生的手上。
"Song Yan felt puzzled and helpless, they are in the United States regular retail stores to buy 3M masks, how to become a" three-nothing "products?" Even across the Pacific Ocean, the masks reached the hospital, the last few meters away, is not delivered to the doctor's hand.
”宋燕沮丧地说。
"said Song Yan gloomily.
即便是直接寄送给疫情一线工作的医生，他们也不被允许直接使用未经许可的医护用品。
Even doctors who send directly to the front line of the epidemic are not allowed to use unauthorized medical supplies directly.
宋燕说，如果擅自使用，院方会直接开除处理。
'If you use them without permission, the hospital will expel you directly, 'Ms. Song said.
碰到这些阻碍的宋燕，只能决定，接下来的捐助物品不再寄往武汉，她找到浙江大学校友会，后者组织了专机直飞上海，宋燕采购的第四批货物搭乘这架飞机，直接交给上海慈善总会送长海医院。
When Song Yan encountered these obstacles, she had to decide that the next donation would not be sent to Wuhan. She went to the Zhejiang University Alumni Association, which organized a special flight to Shanghai.
宋燕说，在这四批货物的运送过程中，他们的临时志愿者团队，利用各自在国内的资源，与国内紧密配合，包括验证国内医院对接人身份，保证货物落实到位等。
During the four shipments, Song said, their teams of temporary volunteers worked closely with the country, drawing on their respective domestic resources, including verifying the identities of domestic hospitals and ensuring that goods were in place.
“因为捐款人的目标就是要将这些医疗物资送到医生手中，”宋燕说，“我们不需要红十字会登记注册，只需要保护医生、保护市民，多一个口罩就有希望少一个传染。
"Because the goal of the donor is to get the medical supplies to the doctors," Song said. "We don't need to register with the Red Cross. We just need to protect doctors and citizens.
”100万口罩订单可下需非盈利机构才有资格采购频繁跑Home Depot，宋燕与工作人员逐渐熟悉起来。
Sung got acquainted with the staff as she ordered a million face masks that could be purchased by a non-profit group to qualify for the frequent Home Depot.
他们告诉她，可以通过特别订单的方式，下数量很大的订单，最多可以有100万个口罩的订单可以下。
They told her she could place a large order for up to one million masks through a special order.
Home Depot 给出的大额采购价格，平均每只口罩约1美元，是平时零售价的一半。
Home Depot gives an average purchase price of about $1 per mask, half the normal retail price.
宋燕得到这个消息很兴奋，但在准备购买时，被告知，只有非盈利机构才有资格购买，个人不允许购买。
Song Yan was excited to hear the news, but when preparing to buy, she was told that only non-profit organizations were eligible to buy, and individuals were not allowed to buy.
“因为美国刚刚宣布进入公共卫生事件紧急状态，因此控制这些关键医疗用品的采购，”宋燕说。
"Because the United States has just declared a public health emergency, it controls the purchase of these critical medical supplies," Song said.
1月31日，在世界卫生组织宣布中国新冠病毒疫情构成全球公共卫生紧急事件后，美国也宣布进入全国公共卫生紧急状态，严格限制中美之间的旅行，对于刚从中国回到美国的人员进行长达14天的隔离。
On January 31, the United States also declared a national public health emergency after the World Health Organization declared a global public health emergency, severely restricting travel between China and the United States and imposing a 14-day quarantine on new arrivals from China.
Home Depot等供应口罩的大型零售商随后实施了零售每人限购10只的政策。
Large retailers such as Home Depot, which supplies masks, subsequently imposed a 10-a-retail policy.
宋燕与Home Depot工作人员的短信交流截图，在美国政府宣布公共卫生紧急状态后，Home Depot实施了每人限购10只口罩的政策于是宋燕开始筹划成立非盈利机构的事，之前的捐助经历也让她意识到，光靠个人的零散的捐款，获得的资金有限，并且采购效率也不高，再加上他们身处的美国一些城市的一些医疗物资也已经开始紧缺了，靠零敲碎打已经无法组织起大规模的采购。
After the US government declared a public health emergency, Home Depot imposed a 10-mask policy, and Sung Yan began planning for a non-profit organization, realizing that individual donations, limited funding and inefficient procurement, together with shortages in some US cities, had made it impossible to organize large-scale purchases.
正好宋燕之前认识的一位朋友成立了一家非盈利组织，在征得同意后，宋燕得以以这家协会的名义，向Home Depot进行大额订购，现在宋燕正前往银行开立非盈利机构账户。
Song Yan has been able to place a large order with Home Depot on behalf of a non-profit group founded by a friend of Song Yan's who is now heading to the bank to open an account with a non-profit group.
作为一名会计专业人员，宋燕之前有过帮助客户开立非盈利机构账户的经验。
As an accounting professional, Ms. Song had previous experience helping clients open non-profit institutional accounts.
她表示，非盈利机构账户与普通账户的区别主要在于税务方面，在美国非盈利账户享受一定程度的免税，但需要证据充足，在每年的报税期提交相应的款项支出的具体信息。
She said the difference between NPI accounts and general accounts was mainly tax-related, with a degree of tax exemption for non-profit accounts in the United States, but that there was a need for sufficient evidence to submit specific information on the corresponding payments in the annual tax return period.
宋燕向《潜望》展示了一张Home Depot第一批20万个口罩的订单的拍摄照片，共9999盒，每盒20个口罩，总价格210,878.91美元。
Song showed Diving an order for the first 200,000 masks of Home Depot for 9,999 boxes of 20 masks, for a total price of $210,878.91.
遗憾的是，由于未能及时完成非盈利机构的相关手续，这笔订单已经被取消。
Unfortunately, the order was cancelled owing to delays in completing the relevant procedures for the non-profit institutions.
宋燕展示的一张总数20万个口罩的Home Depot订单在账户开立完成之后，宋燕还急需找到捐赠的钱，100万个口罩差不多就是100万美元，之前宋燕联系到一些国内的机构有意向，但又涉及到中美之间换汇，这个方案未能完成。
After the account was opened, Song Yan urgently needed to find donated money. A million masks were worth almost $1 million. Song Yan had contacted some domestic agencies to express interest, but the program was not completed.
“如果现在有美国机构愿意直接捐助这笔钱，现在就能拿下这个订单。
"If there are any American institutions willing to give this money directly now, we can take this order now.
”宋燕说，“虽然100万个在目前的情况下也是杯水车薪，但多一个就多一些希望。
"One million is a small price to pay under the circumstances, but there is more hope for one," Song said.
”点击图片阅读更多点击在看，即刻变好看。
Click on the picture to read more clicks in the look, instantly becomes good-looking.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在美华人驰援武汉：陌生人的微信捐款、艰难的分发与最后的100万只口罩。
Assistance to Wuhan in the United States: donations from strangers, difficult distribution and the last 1 million masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯科技";。
Var nickname = & quot; T & T & quot;;
var msg_title = "在美华人驰援武汉：陌生人的微信捐款、艰难的分发与最后的100万只口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; at least & quot; & quot; at least & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "新冠病毒疫情牵动着海外华人的心。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; The New Crown Virus epidemic affects overseas Chinese.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉新型冠状病毒，这篇科普全讲明白了',。
This piece of science fully includes & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '“老干妈”陶华碧：我不坚强，就没得饭吃',。
T: I wasn't strong enough to have Ricky & apos; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯科技',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & T & amp; apos;; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="腾讯科技";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & T & quot;;
