让信息快速流通，是我们对抗疫情的最好方式。
The best way to fight the epidemic is to let information flow quickly.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
（图片来源：林晨同学Hearing）一条拥有至少41万来自湖北的读者。
(Source: Lin Chen Classmate Hearing) A reader with at least 410,000 readers from Hubei.
今天是大年初一，我们完全没有心情过年。
Today is New Year's Day, we are in no mood to celebrate New Year.
过去两天，我们一起经历了武汉正式封城，后来湖北各市陆续传出封锁的消息，全国多个省启动重大公共突发卫生事件一级响应。
Over the past two days, we have experienced the official closure of Wuhan, and then Hubei cities began to spread the news of the blockade, many provinces across the country launched a major public health emergency response.
在病毒疫情面前，让真实、有效的信息快速流通，或许是对抗疫情的最好方式。
In the face of a viral epidemic, a rapid flow of real and effective information may be the best way to combat the epidemic.
武汉封城后的24小时 （图片来源：林晨同学Hearing）昨天，一条通过微信、微博等各个渠道，面向读者征集了与疫情相关的个人故事，收到了几百封珍贵的回复。
2007-9-25 21: 38 [hide] Wuhan Hailing, a schoolmate of Lin Chen, collected personal stories from readers about the epidemic through various channels including micromail and Weibo yesterday and received hundreds of valuable replies.
其中有奋战在一线的医务人员，为了不脱下防护服，一整天不敢喝水；有他们的家人，担心却不敢打电话打扰；有湖北人被疫情阻断了向爱人提亲的旅程。
Among them were medical personnel who fought on the front lines, who were afraid to drink throughout the day in order not to take off their protective clothing; those who were afraid to call and disturb their families; and those in Hubei who were interrupted by the outbreak of the disease.
一月初就深入武汉的记者发来了疫区见闻，主动自我隔离的疑似病患正在慢慢恢复……封城后武汉街边的路人（图片来源：林晨同学Hearing）今天，我们摘录了一部分读者来信，作为这场无声的战役中小小的记录。
At the beginning of January, the reporter who went deep into Wuhan sent news of the epidemic area. The suspected patient of active self-isolation is slowly recovering...
同时，我们也继续开放疫情故事的征集渠道，期待更多来自一线的声音。
At the same time, we also continue to open up the collection of epidemic stories, looking forward to more voices from the front line.
讲述者全国各地的普通人编 辑一条编辑部某位上海朋友在家门口为外卖小哥放的口罩不知道是谁送的外卖，好暖讲述者：冰的可乐是辣的年龄：20+坐标：武汉傍晚看到了一个外卖小哥带着一堆外卖送给医生，医生问谁送的，外卖小哥说是个匿名的人，顿时感觉人间好值得。
A Shanghai friend of mine gave away a mask for his takeaway brother in front of his house. I don't know who gave it away. The cold Coke was hot at 20 + coordinates: Wuhan evening saw a take-out brother with a pile of take-out to the doctor, the doctor asked who sent it, the younger brother said it was an anonymous person, immediately feel good worth it.
朋友的生日蛋糕生日快乐，我的武汉朋友讲述者：R年龄：90后坐标：上海朋友是武汉人，大年三十是她的生日，也是武汉封城的第一天。
Happy Birthday to My Friend's birthday cake, my Wuhan friend narrator R-age: Shanghai friends are Wuhan, New Year's Eve is her birthday, and Wuhan is the first day of the city.
她全副武装帽子口罩下楼买了蛋糕：“生活还是要有点仪式感，日子还是要过嘛。
She went downstairs with a full-armed hat mask and bought a cake: "Life is still a little ceremonial, life is still going to be.
”祝她生日快乐，健康平安！我的妈妈是医生：从非典到新型肺炎讲述者：Titaniumxi年龄：20+坐标：武汉2003年，非典，我妈33岁，一月没进家门。
"Happy Birthday to Her, Healthy and Safe! My mother is a doctor: From SARS to New Pneumonia Narrator: Titaniumxi Age: 20 + Coordinates: Wuhan 2003, SARS, my mother 33 years old, did not enter the house in January.
2020年，新型冠状病毒，我妈50岁，开始了新的战斗。
In 2020, the new coronavirus, my mother's 50 years old, began a new battle.
1月20号凌晨，她12:05接到电话，穿衣服开车去医院。
In the early morning of January 20th, she got a call at 12: 05 a.m. and got dressed and drove to the hospital.
我一个人害怕又担心，不敢给我妈打电话，怕耽误她工作。
I was too scared and worried to call my mother for fear of delaying her work.
今天中午她回家，叮嘱我贴对联送年货，30分钟又走了。
She came home at noon and asked me to post a couplet for the New Year and left again in 30 minutes.
我妈是妻子、妈妈、女儿，国难面前她是英雄！武汉封城后的24小时 （图片来源：林晨同学Hearing）本打算去香港女友家提亲的我，取消了机票讲述者：K年龄：30岁左右坐标：武汉周边本人在武汉周边县村过年，原计划初三经香港飞往台北，向相爱多年的女友及家人提亲，但看现在疫情发展局势，基于怕影响别人的情况下预计会取消延后，希望得到理解，希望疫情尽快好起来，希望一切都能顺利平安。
2007-9-25 21: 55 My mother is a wife, mother and daughter, she is a hero in the face of the national tragedy! Wuhan girl friend Healing 24 hours after the closure of the city, I would like to go to Wuhan around the county to celebrate the Spring Festival, Wuhan around the county, I plan to fly through Hong Kong to Taipei, long-time girlfriend and family.
从非典到新型肺炎，我从幼儿园成了一名大学生讲述者：冯天天_gz年龄：20出头坐标：武汉03年我在北京，还是个幼儿园小朋友，20年我在武汉已经是个大学生了，在哪里都没有躲过，但这种一方有难八方支援的感觉会让人很感动……武汉人在深圳：希望夏天快点到来讲述者：june年龄：30岁左右坐标：深圳武汉人在深圳。
From SARS to the new pneumonia, I became a college student narrator from kindergarten: Feng everyday _ gz age: I was in Beijing in 2003, I was a kindergarten child, 20 years I was a college student in Wuhan, where I have not dodged anywhere.
武汉封城，一天一晚没离开过手机，作为母亲我想回家跟宝宝一块，作为湖北人恨自己能做的太有限，恨自己没学医……希望国家能给予足够的医疗资源进湖北各地市，希望今年的夏天快点到。
As a mother, I want to go home with my baby. As a Hubei people hate that they can do too much, hate that they do not study medicine... I hope the country can give enough medical resources into Hubei city, hope this summer will come soon.
武汉的肺炎亲历者：疑似病例，在家隔离，自我治愈中讲述者：地味鸭职业：教师年龄：29岁坐标：江苏人，在武汉工作今天是公元2020年1月24日，除夕，也是武汉封城第二天。
Wuhan people with pneumonia: suspected cases, isolated at home, self-healing narrator: the earth-flavor duck occupation: age 29 coordinates: Jiangsu people, work in Wuhan today is January 24, 2020, New Year's Eve, also the second day of Wuhan closed city.
我和家属两个江苏人滞留武汉，坐困危城。
My family and I two Jiangsu people stranded in Wuhan, sitting in crisis.
关于封城前后的种种我并无发言权。
I have no say in the events surrounding the closure.
因为尚未痊愈，我已多日足不出户在家吃药，近来都是家属出门帮我抢购食物药品。
Because I have not recovered, I have not left home for many days to take medicine at home, recently is the family out to help me rush food and medicine.
2019年12月底，有朋友告诉我武汉可能出现了“非典”，当时我来汉仅有三个月。
At the end of December 2019, a friend told me that Wuhan might have "SARS," when I came to China only three months ago.
元旦以后，看到武汉发现病毒的官方新闻。
After the New Year's Day, saw Wuhan found the virus official news.
家属立刻下单购买了两大盒N95口罩。
The family immediately ordered two large boxes of N95 masks.
1月8日傍晚，江苏老家的外公去世了，我立刻买票准备回家。
On the evening of Jan. 8, my grandfather died in his hometown of Jiangsu. I immediately bought a ticket to go home.
戴上N95，很不适应，问家属新闻说病毒并不严重，可不可以不戴。
Put on N95, very maladjusted, ask family news that the virus is not serious, can not wear it.
他让我必须戴上。
He made me have to wear it.
到达汉口站，行人数以万计，目力所及，除我以外并无一个人戴口罩。
Arriving at Hankou Station, thousands of pedestrians, as far as I can see, no one except me wearing a mask.
汉口站并没有请旅客防范新型病毒戴上口罩的提示，不少人用怪异的眼光打量我。
Hankou Station did not ask passengers to guard against the new virus wearing masks tips, many people use strange eyes to look at me.
上高铁后，车厢空气不流通，我感到呼吸困难，就摘下了口罩，出站时又戴上了。
On the high-speed train, the car air is not circulating, I feel difficult to breathe, so I took off the mask, when the station put on.
封城前一晚，光谷最繁华的地段，两个人都没有戴口罩参加完老家的葬礼，我于1月12日坐动车抵达汉口站返回武汉，地铁二号线上我又是唯一一个戴口罩的怪胎。
On January 12, I arrived at Hankou Station by train and returned to Wuhan. I was the only freak wearing a mask on the second line of the subway.
老家和武汉往返皆无任何检查，我的旅途畅通无阻。
Home and Wuhan back and forth without any inspection, my journey unimpeded.
1月14日，我开始打喷嚏、流鼻涕。
On 14 January, I began to sneeze and have a runny nose.
当时不知道新型冠状病毒有潜伏期，只以为是在乡下接触人太多患上的普通流感。
It was not known at the time that the new coronavirus had a latency period.
我忙于手头工作。
I am busy with the work at hand.
家属还在每日关注病毒，但感染者一连多日都无增长。
Families are still watching for the virus on a daily basis, but the infected have not grown for days.
我跟他说，这次应该可以扼杀在摇篮里、不会大规模传播了吧。
I told him this time should be able to stifle in the cradle, will not spread on a large scale.
1月17日，我开始发烧，家属出门帮我买体温计和退烧药。
On January 17, I had a fever and my family went out to help me buy a thermometer and antipyretics.
18日早起已退烧，但下午，我忽然又开始发烧。
I got up early on the 18th and had a fever, but in the afternoon I suddenly began to have a fever again.
收拾好东西，我们都戴着N95步行到离家最近的一家三甲医院，挂号后先在急诊量体温。
Pack up, we all walk to the nearest triple-A hospital with N95, register and take our temperature in the emergency room first.
我旁边一个高烧男子量完体温直接走了。
A man with a high fever next to me took his temperature and walked straight away.
护士问医生有无登记那个人，医生说没有，登记不过来，又说我是低烧，在挂号单上记下我的体温数字。
The nurse asked the doctor if he had registered the man. The doctor said no, could not register, and said that I had a low fever.
另一个娇小的女医生询问我的病史，得知我曾去过汉口站，她立刻在病历上写下“曾去华南海鲜市场附近汉口火车站”。
Another petite female doctor asked about my medical history and found out that I had been to Hankou Station. She immediately wrote in her medical record, "I went to Hankou Railway Station near the South China Seafood Market."
我搜了地图，才发现汉口站离华南海鲜市场只有800米。
I searched the map and found that Hankou Station is only 800 meters away from the South China Seafood Market.
封城第二天的武汉街头医生取了咽拭子，让我去抽血、拍CT。
Wuhan the next day of the city doctor took swabs, let me go to take blood, CT.
烧得昏昏沉沉，好不容易出了片子和报告，显示我并不是甲乙流。
Burned in a lethargic state, the film and the report show that I am not A-B flow.
急诊医生对着我的CT沉吟许久，打电话登记了我的姓名和年龄，开了奥司他韦和头孢让我回家吃药。
The emergency doctor, after a long silence over my CT, phoned up my name and age, prescribed oseltamivir and cefta, and sent me home for medication.
急诊科此时已人满为患，一大堆发烧的病人围着医生，很多人都没有戴口罩。
The emergency department was now overcrowded, with a large number of feverish patients huddled around the doctor, many of whom were not wearing masks.
医生和护士有人戴着N95，有人戴着两层外科口罩。
Doctors and nurses wear N95, and others wear two surgical masks.
人群中的医生又气又急，高声说：“这个病毒现在已经很严重了！形势很严峻！请大家注意个人卫生，排好队一个一个来……”走出医院，我跟家属说我应该不是吧！医生都没有说我是。
The doctors in the crowd, angry and anxious, shouted: "The virus is very serious now! The situation is very serious! Please pay attention to personal hygiene, line up one by one..." Out of the hospital, I told my family I should not! The doctors did not say I was.
家属嗤之以鼻：她也没有说你不是啊！我和家属有注意区分食物和餐具。
The family sniffed: She didn't say you weren't! My family and I were careful to distinguish between food and cutlery.
三天后，家属不让我出门。
Three days later, my family refused to let me out.
他又去了一次医院。
He went to the hospital again.
医生看了片子说，光凭CT无法确诊，必须要做试剂盒子。
The doctor looked at the film said that CT alone could not be diagnosed, must do reagent box.
家属追问有没有试剂盒子，医生说他们没有拿到，上级并未发给他们。
The family asked for the reagent box, but the doctor said they did not receive it and the superior did not give it to them.
有盒子的医院也需要审批才能做。
Box hospitals also need to be cleared.
家属说那我岂不是始终无法确诊？我产生了一系列的疑问：关于试剂盒子、关于疑似人数很少却病床爆满……想不明白这些问题，只能继续吃药。
Family members say that I can't always confirm? I have a series of questions: about reagent boxes, about the number of suspects but full of beds... trying to understand these problems, I have to continue taking pills.
封城第二天，附近的小区一位师姐提示我应该于此时离开武汉，做好防护打车回江苏。
The day after the closure of the city, a nearby district of a teacher suggested that I should leave Wuhan at this time, do a good job of protection taxi back to Jiangsu.
但考虑到家中长辈年迈体弱，万一我真的是新型肺炎，回到家传染给老人，后果不堪设想。
But considering the elderly elderly frail, in case I am really a new type of pneumonia, back home to the elderly, the consequences are unthinkable.
我们退了车票，开始每日下单耐储存的蔬菜和鸡蛋、冰冻肉类，把冰箱厨房塞得满满当当。
We returned our tickets and began filling our refrigerator kitchen with daily orders of vegetables and eggs and frozen meat.
22日晚，我所在的一个群有人问：“武汉封城是真的吗？”次日醒来，手机消息已爆炸。
On the evening of the 22nd, one of my group asked: "Is the Wuhan Seal real?" The next day, the mobile phone had exploded.
每一个群都在讨论武汉封城。
Every group is talking about the city of Wuhan.
家属说他凌晨看到新闻后，已出门抢购了好几趟食物，又去药店买了达菲、布洛芬，抢到了最后的一点酒精，还去麦当劳给我买了新款汉堡。
His family said he'd gone out and snapped up food several times in the morning, bought Duffy and Brocken at the drugstore, grabbed the last bit of alcohol and went to McDonalds to buy me a new burger.
吃着汉堡刷豆瓣，才知道医护人员上班打不到车有多么艰辛，全城公共交通消失后，住得偏远的武汉市民又有多么困难。
After eating hamburgers brushing bean discs, I realized how hard it was for the medical staff to get to work, and how difficult it was for the people in Wuhan, a remote city, to live after public transportation disappeared.
我家物资充足，又有足够口罩，地理位置极好，还有家属和猫陪我。
My family has plenty of supplies, enough masks, an excellent location, and family and cats with me.
最重要的是我已好转了，不必去医院冒着风险排一整天的长队检查或打针，讨得一张救命的床位。
The most important thing is that I've got better and I don't have to risk a long line of examinations or needles all day to get a life-saving bed.
我们二人如今不幸中的万幸，几乎全亏家属的高度警惕和超强行动力，以及我的悲观倾向和囤积癖好，还有一点运气。
Fortunately for both of us today, almost entirely due to the heightened vigilance and hyper-compulsion of our families, as well as my pessimism and proclivity for hoarding, and a little luck.
家属给我分析，说我可能就是新型肺炎，但症状较轻，靠自身免疫力痊愈。
Family members told me that I might be the new pneumonia, but the symptoms are light, rely on their immunity to recover.
也可能是普通肺部炎症，吃药后慢慢好转。
It may also be an inflammation of the common lung, slowly improving after taking medicine.
我究竟得的是什么病，这个问题应该永远找不到答案了。
There should never be any answer to the question of what is wrong with me.
如果能再给我一次机会，我无论如何难受，也决不在高铁上摘下口罩。
If I were given another chance, I would never take off my mask on the high-speed rail, no matter how hard it was.
今天是大年三十，我已几乎痊愈。
Today is New Year's Eve, I have almost recovered.
又不敢想这次围困会持续多久，只能闷头读书。
Do not dare to think how long this siege will last, can only stuffy reading.
思绪乱飞，不禁想起在我前面做CT的那位“有问题”患者，他还幸存在人世吗？于封城次日，杂乱地记下我个人微不足道的经历，只是为了提醒自己：不要忘记，不能忘记，不敢忘记。
Thoughts flew by, thinking of the "problem" patient in front of me who was still alive? The day after the siege, I scribbled down my own trivial experiences just to remind myself: Don't forget, don't forget, don't forget.
我们选择陪你留下——一封医务人员夫妻的通信讲述者：刘秀英 坐标：湖南省疾控中心刘秀英爱人坐标：湘雅二医院感染科“什么？你们也退票啦？”我的一个电话，让你很错愕，就如我今天早上8:20接到你的电话：“我们要成立应急办，把我的票退了！”当时接到电话后我有些手足无措，我已经准备好了回家的物品。
We chose to stay with you - a medical couples correspondence narrator: Liu Xiuying coordinates: Hunan CDC Liu Xiuying Department of Infection Department: "What? You also returned tickets?" As I received your call at 8: 20 this morning: "We'll set up an emergency office and return my ticket.
等我再返回座机电话问“我和女儿怎么办？”你只说了一句：“不要打电话了啊，这里好多病人！”和女儿沟通后，我们选择陪你留下……从1月8日抢到票后都是憧憬着的。
When I returned to the landline and asked, "What about me and my daughter?" You just said, "No more phone calls, there are so many patients here!" After communicating with my daughter, we chose to stay with you.
我们一家三口至少有5年没一起回过我老家了。
My family of three haven't returned to my hometown together for at least 5 years.
因为身为医生的你，因为双方父母相距1500多公里，经常是过年劳燕分飞，各自回家尽孝。
Because you are a doctor, because the parents of both sides more than 1500 kilometers apart, is often the New Year Flying, their respective home filial piety.
今年终于顺利达成共识……欣喜之余，脑子里预演了一家三口回到88岁老母亲身边的各种场景：家族聚会，儿女簇拥，姐妹谈情，如何住宿，去哪儿摄影……1月21日上午，坐发热门诊的你，发照一张：防护眼镜、防护面罩都带上了；告知有急事打座机，心里咯噔一下。
In the morning of January 21st, when you were at the fever clinic, you sent along a photo: Protective Glasses, Protective Mask, with a click in your heart when you told them there was an emergency beeper.
大学同学群问湖南情况，甩了一张你当天的工作照，你接着甩了一张全副武装的二级防护照，说下午防护升级了。
University students asked Hunan situation, dumped a photo of your day's work, you then dumped a fully armed secondary protection, said the afternoon of the upgrade.
瞬间，你这个一线人员接受群内同学的致敬和慰问。
Instantly, you as a front-line students to accept the group's homage and condolences.
“不辛苦”的回应中，带出了你的难言之隐——不敢喝水：防护服是连体的，而就诊的患者排成长队……随手把二级防护照转给了女儿，没想到一进家门，她嚎啕大哭。
"Not laborious" response, brought out your unspeakable - dare not drink water: protective clothing is conjunctive, and patients lined up in long lines... casually transferred secondary protective photos to her daughter, did not expect to enter the home, she cried loudly.
我只能安慰，没事没事，但心却揪了起来……开始逐天盘问你：看了多少个发热病人，送检了多少份样本检测新冠状病毒，有没有确诊病人……穿上防护服后的工作照焦虑会变成“嫌弃”。
I can only comfort, nothing is okay, but the heart pulled up... began to question you day by day: how many febrile patients, how many samples sent to check for the new coronavirus, whether there is a confirmed patient... after wearing protective clothing work anxiety will become "aversion."
“请你今天务必在医院洗个澡回来，哪怕借病人的洗手间……”“我今天坐肝病门诊，再说这两天我回来内外衣服全部消毒浸泡洗涤……”因为在感染科工作，你每天进门第一件事就是先洗澡；工作服装从来都是隔离存放、单独洗涤；每天工作洗手不下百次，冬天手上都是皲裂……但随着全国疫情进展的多方位报道，我禁不住想：如果在采取有效防护措施之前，你在发热门诊坐诊接触了没被发现的新冠状病毒肺炎患者，或者说你防护后遇到一个超级传播者（尽管还没出现），你都有可能因为现处潜伏期，成为潜在的传染源，我和女儿都是潜在的密切接触者，一旦回去，给88岁高龄的母亲、患脑血管病的姐姐等带来灾难。
"Please be sure to return to the hospital today with a bath, even if it's the patient's washroom..." "Because I'm at the liver clinic today, and first thing I come home from these two days is bathing first.
我们选择留下，就是想把种种可能的可能尽可能地限制在我们这个小家。
We chose to stay, trying to limit as many possibilities as possible to our little home.
疫情当前，作为普通公民，保护家人，让自己成为抗疫链条上负责任的一环，就是爱国家；身为疾控一员，作为储备力量，在长沙整装待发，为一线的你洗好衣、做好饭，也是贡献。
At present, as ordinary citizens, to protect their families and make themselves a responsible part of the fight against the epidemic is to love the country; as a disease control member, as a reserve force, in Changsha ready to send, for the first line of your washing, cooking, but also contribute.
哪有什么岁月静好，只不过是有人在替你负重前行。
There is no quiet time, just someone to carry your weight forward.
今天，轮到你负重前行，我们选择留下，与你并肩，抵御疫情，佑护生命！我们坚信，每一个人每一个细微贡献，都会为“抗疫”胜利铺就一块基石。
Today, when it is your turn to carry your weight, we choose to stay with you and protect your life against the epidemic! We firmly believe that every small contribution of each and every one of us will pave the way for victory against the disease.
唯有众志成城，才能天佑中华！写于2020年1月23日。
Only by doing so can God bless China! Written on January 23, 2020.
一月初，我深入武汉采访拍摄讲述者：毛毛年龄：30岁职业：记者坐标：台北，曾到武汉采访我是台湾某新闻台的大陆特派记者，12月31号是我们第一次接收到疫情讯息，台北总部1月2号早上，突然传来指令要我们立刻前往武汉采访。
In early January, I went deep into Wuhan to interview the narrator: Mao Mao age: 30 Profession: Taipei, I have been to Wuhan to interview the mainland correspondent for a Taiwanese news station, December 31 is the first time we received epidemic information.
当下我立刻看航班，简单收拾行囊就和摄影匆匆出发，乘坐了前往武汉的班机。
I immediately look at the flight, simple packing and photography hurriedly set out on a flight to Wuhan.
1月3日，一早8点前往华南海鲜市场。
January 3, 8 a.m. to the South China Seafood Market.
我和摄影因为买不到N95，所以戴了3层普通口罩。
My photography and I were wearing three ordinary masks because we couldn't buy N95.
搭上出租车时，师傅听到我们要去华南海鲜市场，急促地跟我们说：“我劝你别去啊，现在有不明肺炎，那边都封起来啦。
When he caught a taxi, the master heard that we were going to the South China seafood market and said to us hurriedly, "I advise you not to go there.
”当时疫情的相关报道还不多，大众还不是很了解，沿途的人几乎都没戴口罩，也没有警觉。
At the time, there were few reports of the outbreak, much was not well understood, and almost all the people along the route were not wearing masks and were not alert.
1月3日前往华南海鲜市场周边采访华南海鲜市场这时候已经封起来了，我们就在华南海鲜市场外绕，也在附近吃了早餐，每间店都很热闹，大家照吃照喝，开开心心。
On January 3, we went to the South China Seafood Market to interview the South China Seafood Market. By this time, we had our breakfast outside the South China Seafood Market.
我当下觉得很恐怖，市场周边全是人，很多摊贩拖着一箱一箱的货，直接在路边卖海鲜。
I felt terrible right now, the market is surrounded by people, many vendors towed boxes of goods, selling seafood directly by the roadside.
民众也转而到周边去买，而且大家都没有戴口罩。
People are also turning to the periphery to buy, and everyone is not wearing masks.
中午后，我们前往金银潭医院，那里是当地专治肺炎的医院，也有传染病专科，当时有部分确诊新型肺炎的病患直接送往那里。
After noon, we went to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, a local hospital for pneumonia and a specialist in infectious diseases, where some patients with newly diagnosed pneumonia were sent directly.
来看诊的人非常多，大家都在医院来来去去。
There were so many visitors that everyone came and went in the hospital.
看到这情景，我想疫情会爆发是必然的。
Seeing this, I think the outbreak will be inevitable.
回到酒店后，酒店门口就是我的“消毒区”，我和摄影互相往对方身上喷洒酒精，从头到脚都不放过，当天的衣物我全部丢了。
Back at the hotel, in front of the hotel is my "sterile area," I and photography spray alcohol on each other, from head to foot, I lost all of the day's clothing.
真的太害怕了。
I'm really scared.
1月4号，我们离开武汉。
On January 4th, we left Wuhan.
1月17号，结束大陆派驻，回到台湾。
January 17, the end of the mainland deployment, back to Taiwan.
如今武汉封城，希望一切都能平安。
Wuhan now sealed the city, hope that all can be safe.
图片来源：cindybear8888微博我们不害怕上战场，但是不能赤膊上阵讲述者：一名普通的医务工作者坐标：某市三甲医院我的爱人是危重症救治组专家。
We're not afraid to go to the battlefield, but we can't be nudged: an ordinary medical worker coordinate: City Sanjia Hospital My wife is a critical care specialist.
今天年三十，他值班。
He is on duty today.
我和爱人都在三甲医院工作。
My wife and I both work at Sanjia Hospital.
这次我们医院是冠状病毒肺炎定点救治医院，前天我们市确诊了一名患者。
This hospital is the coronavirus pneumonia targeted treatment hospital, the day before yesterday our city confirmed a patient.
我在门诊工作，今年我们医院取消了假期，正常开诊。
I work in the outpatient department. This year our hospital canceled the vacation and opened the clinic normally.
其实我们经常遇到各种突发公共事件，会影响日常安排，取消休假。
In fact, we often encounter a variety of unexpected public events, will affect the day-to-day arrangements, cancellation of leave.
车祸、矿难、禽流感……这次的困难在于，病毒还有太多的不确定性。
Car crashes, mine accidents, bird flu... The difficulty this time is that there is too much uncertainty about the virus.
可防可控的前提，是先把防控措施落实到位。
Preventable controllable premise is to put in place the control measures first.
我尽量在朋友圈刷屏科普，多一点防控常识，少一分感染风险。
I try to brush the screen in my friends circle, more common sense control, less risk of infection.
医院关于冠状病毒肺炎的学习培训了三轮。
The hospital trained three rounds on the study of coronavirus pneumonia.
有同事主动签了请愿书。
A colleague signed the petition on his own initiative.
医院的防护用品并不充足，口罩都需要配发。
The hospital does not have enough protective equipment and masks need to be issued.
也许过几天会好一些。
Maybe it'll be better in a few days.
如果出现大爆发，我们只希望有足够的医用物资。
In the event of a major outbreak, we just want to have enough medical supplies.
我们不害怕上战场，但是总不能赤膊上阵吧？我只希望以后武汉的疫情防控能听专家指导。
We are not afraid to go on the battlefield, but can not always be naked? I just hope that the future Wuhan disease prevention and control can listen to expert guidance.
真心希望武汉早日渡过难关。
I sincerely hope Wuhan will overcome difficulties soon.
祝大家新年都平安健康！生活在纽约的武汉人：9年没回家过年的我，再次取消了机票讲述者：多多年龄：30岁职业：心理咨询师坐标：纽约我现在长居纽约，父母、外婆等家人均在武汉生活。
Wuhan people living in New York City: I did not return home for the New Year, and again cancelled the ticket narrator: age 30 occupation: Psychologist Coordinates: New York City I now live in New York City, parents, grandmother and other families are living in Wuhan.
在美国9年没有回国过年的我，刚刚取消了小半年前订好的回家机票。
After nine years in the United States, I have just cancelled my flight home, which was booked six months ago.
去年夏天南方航空开通了纽约直飞武汉的航班，10月我就买了1月23日回武汉的机票。
Southern Airlines last summer opened a non-stop flight to Wuhan, New York, in October I bought a flight back to Wuhan on January 23.
2019年的感恩节和圣诞节假期全部用来加班，攒过年回家的假期。
Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays in 2019 are all used to work overtime to save up for the New Year's holiday home.
上个礼拜四，我还在朋友圈里开心地发回家倒计时，我妈还说请我做头发。
Last Thursday, I was in the circle of friends happily sent home the countdown, and my mother also asked me to do a hair.
武汉市第十一医院（红十字会医院）就在爸妈住的小区里。
Wuhan 11th Hospital (Red Cross Hospital) is in the area where my parents live.
上个周末开始（18日、19日）武汉肺炎疫情愈演愈烈，十一医院门诊人满为患。
Last weekend began (18, 19) Wuhan pneumonia epidemic intensified, 11 hospitals out-patient overcrowding.
全家人打电话，催促我取消回家过年的行程，我爸说如果机票退不了，自己补贴我这笔钱。
The whole family called and urged me to cancel my trip home for the New Year. My dad said he would subsidize me if my ticket didn't return.
20、21号打爆了的电话记录这周礼拜一和礼拜二我电话都打爆了，给爸妈、外婆轮番打，一打就是一个半小时。
NO.2 RECORD OF THE VOLUNTARY TODAY AND TUESDAY This Monday and Tuesday I blew up and beat Mom and Dad and Grandma in shifts for an hour and a half.
我妈说之前到处排队买口罩买菜，现在街上都没人，我爸从他们单位拿了一堆包子饺子丸子什么的回家。
My mom said she'd lined up all over the place to buy masks and vegetables, and now there's no one on the street. My dad took a pile of dumplings from their work unit and went home.
武汉现在不能进不能出，想到爸爸妈妈外婆万一没有吃的了，我自己好吃好喝的想法都没有了。
Wuhan can not go out now, think of my parents in case there is no food, I have no ideas to eat and drink.
一边觉得这个票退的好，一边又很难受不能在这个关头陪在家人身边。
On the one hand feel this ticket return good, on the other hand very uncomfortable can not accompany at this juncture in the family side.
跟爸妈长达一个半小时的视频通话我外婆现在84岁了，一个人住在杨叉湖二七路，阳光花园。
My grandma is 84 years old and lives alone in the Sunshine Garden on the 27th Road of Yangjiao Lake.
离华南市场和汉口火车站都只要20分钟。
It's only 20 minutes from the South China Market and Hankou Railway Station.
爸妈要接她走，老太太也不肯。
Mom and Dad were taking her away, and the old lady wouldn't.
一个人住习惯了，怎么都不肯挪地方。
Being used to living alone, I can't move anywhere.
我给她打了两个视频电话做工作，也做不通。
I gave her two video calls to do her job, but I couldn't figure it out.
爸妈只好跑去给她留了很多菜和药，老太太保证不出门，我才稍微放心一点。
My parents had to run to leave her a lot of food and medicine, and the old lady promised not to go out, I was a little relieved.
我老公是土生土长的美国人，不像我们小时候经历过非典，他很不能理解我为什么这么焦急，茶不思饭不想也睡不好。
My husband is a native-born American. Unlike when we had SARS as a child, he couldn't understand why I was so anxious.
我从小是外婆带大的，她年纪大了，如果这次得了病，我明年就算能回来过年，也没外婆了。
I was brought up by my grandmother. She is old. If I get sick this time, I will be back for New Year.
甜饼防疫盲区：听障群体讲述者：甜饼年龄：26岁职业：听障文化公司创业者坐标：重庆我是听障者，现在有个防疫盲区就是听障群体。
Cookies epidemic prevention blind area group speaker: cookie age: 26-year-old occupation: deaf culture company founder's coordinates: Chongqing I am hearing impaired, there is now a blind epidemic prevention area is the deaf community.
现在社会上很多人觉得听障者用手机就能了解信息了，其实是一个误区，听障群体的成分很复杂，大部分学历很低，还有老年聋人，他们大部分是文盲，文字对于他们来说是没有用的，而且听障群体很多人看不懂书面手语，只能通过自然手语来沟通，自然手语又分很多地域性的打法……目前我看到有一些聋人自媒体在没确认科学信息的情况下，用手语视频传递谣言。
Now many people in the society think that the hearing-impaired can understand the information with their mobile phones. In fact, it is a myth that the deaf have a complex composition, most of them have very little education, and the deaf are mostly illiterate and can only communicate in natural sign language.
以及，还有不少听障者因为被网上言论煽动，言语攻击武汉听障者，因为听障者他们的心理更容易应激过度。
In addition, many people with hearing impairments have been incited by online speech and verbally attacked Wuhan hearing-impaired people because they are more likely to suffer from psychological stress.
我建了一个线下的防疫信息平台群，邀请了北京大学交叉科学研究院的博士朋友做专业医学指导，也邀请了一些聋人自媒体大V进群，我和我的朋友在做手语防疫指南的资料搜集，也在搭建一个网站，作为应急信息求救通道，聋人的心理疏导。
I set up an online epidemic prevention information platform group, invited PhD friends from Peking University Interdisciplinary Research Institute to do professional medical guidance, also invited some deaf people from the media group, my friends and I are doing sign language vaccination guidelines collection, also set up a website, as emergency information access, the psychological counseling of the deaf.
我正在准备做一些短小的手语科普视频，目前我能够联系的手语翻译在十多名左右，远远不够，网站搭建也在拜托程序员朋友做，技术方面也缺一点，手语科普不是简单的事情。
I am preparing to do some short video science of sign language, I can now contact more than a dozen sign language interpreters, far from enough, the site is also asked programmer friends to do, a little less technical, sign language science is not a simple matter.
疫情之下，劝服父母到底有多难？讲述者：小绿年龄：27岁职业：白领坐标：上海在23日武汉封城之前，我们一家6口，我和老公、爸妈公婆，都在去日本的游轮上。
How difficult is it to persuade parents under the epidemic? Narrator: Little Green Age: 27-year-old Profession: White-collar CoordinationBefore the city was closed on May 23 in Wuhan, my family of six, my husband, my parents-in-law and I were all on a cruise to Japan.
在海上的日子没有信号，只能看卫星电视的新闻，21号开始意识到严重性，我甚至觉得，这艘船是末日孤舰，只有这艘船是干净的。
There was no sign of life at sea, only satellite TV news, 21 began to realize the seriousness of the ship, I even feel that the ship is the end of the ship, only the ship is clean.
在旅行的游轮上23日武汉“封城”那天，我们从海上下来。
On the day of the 23 th Wuhan "Seal" of the cruise ship, we came down from the sea.
我爸是个托大的人，觉得疫情都不是事儿，固执地去见了刚从武汉回来的兄弟。
My father is a Tu Da people, feel the epidemic is not a matter, stubbornly went to see just returned from Wuhan brother.
于是我开始说服妈妈要和爸爸施行隔离，分房分餐，消毒。
So I began to convince my mother to be separated from my father, divided into rooms and disinfected.
放在父母家门口的口罩但爸妈住在偏远的地方周边都没有口罩，于是我老公单程60公里驱车前往我父母家，空投了很多口罩，又辗转买到了酒精等，放在门口就离开了，和我妈妈没有任何接触。
My husband drove 60 kilometers one way to my parents' house, dropped a lot of masks, tossed some alcohol, etc., left the door and left without any contact with my mother.
我爸持续固执着，觉得不能让自己的兄弟觉得受到了歧视。
My father persisted, feeling that he could not make his brother feel discriminated against.
我苦口婆心，狠话好话都说尽了，“一边是不吃一顿饭，叔叔一时的伤心，还有一边是全家ICU，你选哪边？”“陌生人之间能隔离，亲人之间更应该隔离，因为我们彼此关心着。
I said all the hard stuff, "Not a meal, my uncle's sad for a while, and the whole family ICU, which side do you choose?" "Strangers can be separated, relatives should be separated, because we care about each other.
”后来我爸爸松口了。
"Then my father let go.
爸妈家的小区现在父母两人在家里都戴着口罩，分餐吃，分房睡，分厕所上，不再出门，时时消毒。
My parents now wear masks at home, share meals, sleep in separate rooms, share toilets, no more going out and disinfecting them from time to time.
但不知道执行起来，父母们能多严格，只能时不时提醒。
But do not know how to implement, parents can be strict, can only remind from time to time.
毕竟病毒是个无形的东西，有时候在预防的时候，我都会突然觉得很好笑，似乎觉得自己太过夸张，可是因为从来没有受过这种训练，最多是电影电视剧里看过，又觉得防不胜防，不知道病毒以哪种形式存在在空气里。
After all, the virus is an intangible thing, sometimes in the prevention, I would suddenly feel funny, as if they were too exaggerated, but because never have such training, most of the film and television, feel too much to prevent, do not know what form the virus exists in the air.
所以一边无限焦虑，一边又觉得很恍惚可笑。
So while the infinite anxiety, on the one hand feel very trance ridiculous.
最新消息，我叔叔被居委会要求去做检查了。
The latest. My uncle was asked by the neighborhood committee to have an examination.
感觉上海还是防护做得不错的。
It feels like Shanghai has done a good job of protection.
1月22日晚，武汉市第七医院外的排队打持久战，“弹药”一定要充足讲述者：小陈年龄：28岁职业：检验科医务人员坐标：武汉朋友是武汉检验科的医务人员，她昨天早上收到任务，两天后她所在的医院将设立定点发热医院，开始收治病人做入院治疗。
On the night of Jan. 22, 2007, outside Wuhan City's Seventh Hospital, a long queue for a protracted war, ammunition must be told adequately by Xiao Chen age 28-year-old occupation Medical Examiner's CoordinationWuhan friend, a medical staff of Wuhan Inspection Department, received her assignment yesterday morning, two days later her hospital will set up a sentinel fever hospital and start hospitalizing patients.
“逃兵就是开除。
"Desertion is expulsion.
但我相信没有一个医务人员会选择不参与抗击疫情的，我一点都不后悔学医，这是我的使命。
But I do not believe that any medical staff will choose not to participate in the fight against the epidemic, I do not regret learning medicine, this is my mission.
”在正式公布第二批定点发热医院前的这三天里，为了安全医院要做改造，所有医务人员都要反复进行防护措施的培训。
In the three days leading up to the official announcement of the second batch of designated fever hospitals, all medical staff were repeatedly trained in protective measures in order to make changes to the safe hospitals.
“培训很难，每个人都要完全掌握，要先保护好自己，才能保护更多的人。
"Training is difficult, everyone needs to master it, to protect themselves, to protect more people.
”不过因为交通停运，医务人员上下班很是困难，没有私家车的都是自己在想办法克服。
But because of the traffic stoppage, it is difficult for medical workers to get to and from work, and those who do not have private cars are trying to overcome it themselves.
有很多普通人自发地开了微信群，安排人员接送武汉的医务工作者上下班，以自己的方式参与这场战斗。
A lot of ordinary people spontaneously opened a micro-group of people to transport Wuhan medical workers to and from work, in their own way to participate in the battle.
政府也在和医院附近的酒店协商提供住宿。
The government is also negotiating accommodation with hotels near the hospital.
问了她现在我们在外面的人能为他们提供什么帮助，她说医用物资非常短缺，他们都做好了打持久战的准备，“弹药”一定要充足。
Ask her what our people out there can do to help them. She says medical supplies are in short supply. They are ready for a protracted war.
具体缺什么和如何捐助，可以在微博上搜“医用物资”，各大医院都有发布自己的捐助渠道。
What specific lack and how to donate, can search "medical supplies" on Weibo, major hospitals have issued their own channels of donation.
武汉多家医院物资紧张以下为部分医院名单和资料，均为各医院官方发布！请放心捐赠！▼。
Shall we go over to Wuhan? Shall we tell you why? Shall we go over to our hospital? Shall we go over there?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
让信息快速流通，是我们对抗疫情的最好方式。
The best way to fight the epidemic is to let information flow quickly.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "让信息快速流通，是我们对抗疫情的最好方式";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; our best against the epidemic.
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
