武汉肺炎疫情成全球焦点：我们知道得太少，最坏的还没到来。
Wuhan pneumonia epidemic into the global focus: we know too little, the worst has yet to come.
点击右边星标。
Click the star on the right.
一条                      。
One article.
一条。
One article.
每天一条原创短视频，每天讲述一个动人的故事，每天精选人间美物，每天来和我一起过美好的生活。
Every day an original short video, tell a moving story every day, select the best things in the world, and come and live a good life with me every day.
。
.
这注定是一个难捱的春节。
This is destined to be a difficult Spring Festival.
截至1月23日24时，全国确诊新型肺炎病例830例，死亡25例。
As of 2400 hours on January 23, 830 new pneumonia cases and 25 deaths had been diagnosed nationwide.
截至1月23日晚，中国新型肺炎疫情地图（来源：丁香医生）同时，国际确诊案例也陆续出现。
As of the night of January 23, China's new pneumonia map (source: Dr. Lilac), the international confirmed cases have also emerged.
截至1月23日，数据如下：泰国已确诊4例，其中3人是中国籍，1人是泰国籍；美国已确诊1例，该男子1月15日从武汉出发到达美国；日本确诊1例，患者曾在武汉逗留，10号住院，15号已痊愈出院；韩国确认1例，患者为从武汉飞回韩国的女子。
As of January 23, the data are as follows: Thailand has confirmed four cases, three Chinese and one Thai; the United States has confirmed one case, the man arrived in Wuhan on January 15; Japan confirmed one case, the patient stayed in Wuhan, 10 hospitalized, 15 recovered and discharged; and the Republic of Korea confirmed one case, a woman who flew back to Korea from Wuhan.
新加坡确诊1例。
One case was diagnosed in Singapore.
“当媒体报道量增加十倍，此类传染病的感染数减少33.5%。
"When media coverage increased tenfold, the number of infections from such infections fell by 33.5 percent.
”——华盛顿大学的几位科学家曾研究显示，对于此类传染病，媒体报道有助于大幅降低疫情传播。
Several scientists at the University of Washington have found that media coverage of such infections can help significantly reduce the spread of the disease.
政府之外，媒体是大众了解疫情的重要渠道。
Outside the Government, the media are an important channel for the general public to understand the epidemic.
随着港澳台、美国、日本、泰国、韩国等地陆续出现确诊案例，新型肺炎，更引起了国际社会的广泛关注，德国专家指出，我们对此病知道得太少，过度警惕是有道理的。
With the emergence of confirmed cases in Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, the United States, Japan, Thailand and the Republic of Korea, and the emergence of a new type of pneumonia, the German expert pointed out that we know too little about the disease and it makes sense to be overly vigilant.
目前，疫情发展速度非常惊人，最坏的或许还没到来……撰文一条编辑部香港已确诊2例新型肺炎引起全港以至全世界关注，香港各界纷纷讨论疫情变化及应对之策。
At present, the epidemic is developing at an alarming rate, and the worst may not be yet to come... Writing an editorial section. Hong Kong has confirmed two new cases of pneumonia which have aroused concern in Hong Kong and around the world.
12月30号，内地首次公布武汉出现不明原因的肺炎。
On December 30, the mainland announced for the first time an unidentified pneumonia in Wuhan.
香港纸媒和网媒方面，香港01、明报、南华早报、端传媒等媒体从12月31号开始，都设立了专题报道，持续更新。
Hong Kong's print and online media, Hong Kong 01, Ming Pao, South China Morning Post, media outlets and other media, from December 31, have set up special features, continuously updated.
尤其从1月20号开始，香港出现上百个怀疑个案，专题几乎每小时跟进最新情况。
Since January 20 in particular, there have been hundreds of suspected cases in Hong Kong. Topics are updated almost hourly.
南华早报疫情专题TVB电视新闻记者在香港高铁站报道现场情况 凤凰卫视而香港TVB、有线电视、凤凰卫视等各大电视台，新闻频道24小时大篇幅播出关于肺炎的报道，并利用滚动字幕，实时更新各地感染人数及最新消息。
South China Morning Post Special Topic TVB TV reporter coverage of the scene at the Hong Kong High Speed Rail Station and major TV stations such as Hong Kong TVB, Cable TV, Phoenix TV etc. News channels broadcast a 24-hour story on pneumonia and used rolling subtitles to update the number of people infected and the latest news around the globe.
当有关肺炎最新情况的新闻发布会举行时，甚至会打断原来播出节目，插播发布会的直播画面。
When the news conference on the latest situation of pneumonia is held, even the original program will be interrupted, interrupted by live footage of the news conference.
明报即时新闻武汉肺炎占2/3篇幅各大传媒揭示出不少防疫工作的漏洞和有待加强之处。
Wuhan News Instant News Wuhan Pneumonia accounts for 2 / 3 space of the major media revealed many epidemic prevention work loopholes and areas to be strengthened.
1月21日，香港01指出“香港政府的不少港口筛查措施仍只停留在针对武汉的层面，显然不够严谨和安全，而应该在所有入境关口对所有来港的群体采取体温检测和健康申报”。
On January 21, Hong Kong 01 noted that "many of the Hong Kong Government's port screening measures remain only at the Wuhan level and are clearly not rigorous and safe, and that temperature and health declarations should be applied to all groups entering Hong Kong at all entry points."
但从各大媒体的报道中，也能看出香港对于疫情的迅速处理。
But the rapid response of Hong Kong to the epidemic can also be seen in media reports.
橙新闻1月21号发布了内地和香港的肺炎应对措施时间线表格，能看出历过非典的香港政府，十分警觉的反应速度。
Orange News on January 21 released a timeline of the response to pneumonia in the Mainland and Hong Kong, showing how alert Hong Kong's government has been through SARS.
香港01报道新型肺炎端传媒形容和武汉此前的淡定相比，台湾和香港则保持了相对的神经紧绷。
Hong Kong 01 reports that the new pneumonia-related media described Taiwan and Hong Kong as relatively tense compared to Wuhan's previous lull.
在台北松山机场，LED荧幕滚动提醒道：“近期前往武汉及邻近区域时，应落实肥皂勤洗手、咳嗽佩戴口罩等个人卫生措施”，并提醒游客如出现上述疑似症狀及时就医。
"For recent trips to Wuhan and adjacent areas, personal hygiene measures such as washing hands frequently, coughing and wearing a mask should be implemented," LED screens at Taipei's Sonshan Airport warned.
武汉肺炎和非典对比报道方向主要可分为以下四类：疫情情况跟进，香港政府的相应措施，国际上的反应举措，疫情对香港经济的影响。
Wuhan pneumonia and SARS can be divided into four main categories: epidemic situation follow-up, Hong Kong government's corresponding measures, international response measures, and the impact of the epidemic on Hong Kong's economy.
1、确诊情况据香港01报道，1月22日，香港首现高度怀疑个案，该宗个案是一名由内地乘高铁抵港的武汉旅客，21日晚抵港时确认发烧，消息指该乘客先被送往伊利沙伯医院，于22日傍晚被转往玛嘉烈医院隔离。
Confirmed Condition Hong Kong 01 reported the first highly suspected case in Hong Kong on January 22 of a Wuhan passenger arriving on a high-speed rail from the Mainland who confirmed fever on arrival in Hong Kong on Thursday evening. The report said the passenger had been taken to Queen Elizabeth Hospital and was transferred to Princess Margaret Hospital on the evening of 22.
病人同行一家五口，家人21日晚曾入住尖沙咀的皇悦酒店。
The patient was from a family of five. His family stayed at the Royal Yue Hotel in Tsim Sha Tsui on the evening of 21.
病人的四名家人现时已飞往菲律宾。
The four family members of the patient are now flying to the Philippines.
1月22日，香港有了第二宗高度怀疑个案，患者是56岁男士，香港人，曾到过武汉。
On January 22, there was a second highly suspected case in Hong Kong. The patient, a 56-year-old man from Hong Kong, had been to Wuhan.
1月23日，2名患者均被确诊患有新型肺炎。
On 23 January, both patients were diagnosed with new pneumonia.
麦理浩度假村将用作隔离区2、措施据明报报道，1月22日，香港关闭麦理浩夫人度假村，预留做隔离防疫，该度假村在2003年非典时期曾用作隔离营。
MacLehose Holiday Village will be used as an isolation camp on January 22, the Ming Pao Daily reported. Hong Kong has closed down the Lady MacLehose Holiday Village, which was used as a quarantine camp during SARS in 2003.
香港旅发局取消了年初一到年初四的新春国际汇演，以及初二举行的“贺岁杯”足球赛活动，避免太多人群聚集。
The Hong Kong Tourism Board cancelled the New Year's Eve International Show from the first four years of the year and the Lunar New Year Cup on the second day of the Lunar New Year.
3、国际对武汉疫情的反应据香港01报道，英国运输大臣沙格兰（Grant Shapps）1月22日表示，伦敦的希斯路机场（Heathrow Airport）将会为来自受到新型冠状病毒影响地区的航班，另设入境区域。
International Response to the Wuhan Coronavirus According to Hong Kong 01, Transport Minister Grant Shapps said on January 22 that London's Heathrow Airport would have a separate entry area for flights from areas affected by the new coronavirus.
香港01报道新型肺炎影响经济4、疫情对经济的影响据香港01报道，市民关注內地疫情会否进一步扩散之余，也担心会否重演2003年非典时对经济的冲击。
HONG KONG 01 REPORT ON THE IMPACT OF THE NEW Pneumonia ON THE ECONOMY According to Hong Kong 01, the public is concerned about whether the outbreak will spread further and whether it will repeat the economic impact of SARS in 2003.
2003年2月，“非典”传入香港，全市近乎瘫痪，对本港消费及服务出口影响最大。
When SARS was introduced into Hong Kong in February 2003, the city was nearly paralysed, with the greatest impact on Hong Kong's exports of consumption and services.
中国当局在2003年沙士后开放“港澳个人游”（自由行），香港经济很快复苏，失业率也快速回落。
After SARS in 2003, the Chinese authorities opened up the "Hong Kong-Macao Personal Visit" (free movement), Hong Kong's economy recovered quickly and unemployment rate dropped rapidly.
新型肺炎确诊消息一出，已有楼市买家忧虑未来楼价走势，决定“再睇下先”，终于爽约并取消买卖。
New pneumonia confirmed news, housing buyers have worried about the future trend of property prices, decided to "look ahead", finally break the contract and cancel the sale.
分析担忧，在內地游客減少下，倘新型肺炎疫情扩大，连带本地人也不敢外出消费，以避开人多的地方，恐进一步冲击本港零售、餐饮及消费业。
The analysis is concerned that if the new type of pneumonia spreads, local residents will not dare to go out to consume in order to avoid the crowds and further disrupt the retail, catering and consumer industries in Hong Kong.
1月23日，受到新型肺炎疫情恶化，以及武汉市政府宣布封城等消息影响，港股跌幅近500点。
Hong Kong shares fell nearly 500 points on January 23 on news of a new pneumonia outbreak and the city government's announcement of the city's closure.
航空股﹑酒店及旅游相关股份悉数向下。
Airline stocks, hotels and travel-related shares are all down.
美银发表报告，指出在新一轮危机中，中国更主动更新情况，基于当局快速反应且死亡率低等因素，预料疫情对股市影响较非典为小。
The BofA report said China had been more proactive in updating the situation during the new crisis and that the epidemic was expected to have less impact on the stock market than SARS because of rapid response from authorities and low mortality rates.
澳门卫生局疾控中心主任 林松1月22日，澳门首例确诊新型肺炎，是一名52岁武汉女商人。
On January 22, Lin Song, director of the CDC of the Macao Health Bureau, the first confirmed case of new pneumonia in Macao, was a 52-year-old Wuhan businesswoman.
1月23日，澳门确诊第二例，是一名66岁男子，来自武汉的游客。
January 23, Macao confirmed the second case, a 66-year-old man, from Wuhan tourists.
澳门当局为保障本地口罩供应充足，在23日傍晚实施“保障口罩计划”。
To ensure adequate supply of local masks, the Macao authorities launched the mask protection programme on the evening of 23.
澳门居民凭身份证，可在指定药房购买卫生局提供的口罩，每名市民最多可以以澳门币8元10个的价格购买10个口罩，10天后可再度购买。
Macao residents can purchase masks provided by the Health Bureau at designated pharmacies on the strength of their identity cards. Each citizen can purchase a maximum of 10 face masks at a price of MOP 8. 10, and can purchase them again after 10 days.
1月23日，澳门特首贺一诚见传媒，表示已取消各项新春活动。
On January 23, the Chief Executive of Macao, Ho Yicheng, met with the media and said he had cancelled all activities.
他又指，澳门口罩总存量2,000万个，相信足够供澳门市民以成本价购买。
He added that the total stock of 20 million masks in Macao is believed to be sufficient for Macao people to buy at cost.
另外，23日贺一诚与珠海市长会面，商讨防疫合作安排。
On the 23rd, He Yicheng met with the Mayor of Zhuhai to discuss cooperation arrangements for epidemic prevention.
澳广视报道新型肺炎消息“有一个确诊的病人病症不严重，有时发热有时不发热，到医院之后没有发热。
"One patient was diagnosed with a mild illness, sometimes with or without fever, and did not get hot after arriving at the hospital," Aussie said.
但过关的时候确实有发热，他没有其他不适，没有咳嗽和鼻塞、流鼻水和呼吸困难，自己都觉得身体没有太多不适。
But there was a fever when he passed, no other discomfort, no coughing and stuffiness, a runny nose and difficulty breathing, and he didn't feel much discomfort.
” ——澳门疾病预防控制中心主任 林松 @澳广视行政长官贺一诚指，如疫情持续恶化，不排除关闭赌场，要以最坏打算做准备。
Lin Yicheng, director of the Macao Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the chief executive, He Yicheng, said that if the situation continued to worsen, casinos should not be excluded and preparations for the worst should be prepared.
大批澳门市民在药房排队购买物资一条也向一位澳门本地居民了解现状。
A large number of Macau residents queued up at the pharmacy to buy supplies and also asked a Macao resident about the situation.
他表示目前澳门市面秩序正常，但街上人流明显较以往减少：“现在10个人里面，5、6个人会戴口罩。
He said the city's market was in good order, but street traffic was noticeably lower than usual: "Five or six out of 10 people now wear masks.
今天早上我看到每一个药房门口，都有10来个人排队，购买口罩一类的物资。
This morning I saw about a dozen people queuing up at every pharmacy to buy masks and stuff.
（对于疫情）都会有担心的。
There will be worries (about the outbreak).
我们全家本身计划春节回内地探亲，但现在都让体弱的老人留在澳门，尽量减少外出了。
Our family planned to return to visit the mainland for the Spring Festival, but now all the frail old people are staying in Macao to minimise travel.
” ——子健 @澳门本地居民东森新闻节目《关键时刻》探讨武汉肺炎1月21日，新型肺炎，台湾确诊一例。
"--Jian Zi Jian, a resident of Macao," Critical Times, "a news programme exploring pneumonia in Wuhan on January 21, a case was confirmed in Taiwan.
防疫出现漏洞引发高度关注，台湾主流电视媒体TVBS、东森、中天等，24小时新闻联播，每节一小时的新闻，有将近30分钟在报道新型肺炎，包括政论节目也都邀请专家进行讨论；平面媒体《联合报》、《自由时报》、《ETtoday》等，设有疫情“不断更新”专栏，每一到两小时就更新一次最新情况。
TVBS, DongSen and Zhongtian, the mainstream television media in Taiwan, 24-hour news broadcasts, nearly 30 minutes of coverage of the new pneumonia, including political commentary, also invite experts to discuss the issue; the print media "Joint News," "Free Times," ETtoday, etc., have "continuously updated" columns with updates every one to two hours.
经防疫宣导后，台湾民众出入公共场所皆佩戴口罩概览台湾各大媒体对疫情的报道，着重于防疫，及疫情对民生的影响，尽量降低民众恐慌，同时不要轻忽病毒传染力，评估自身情况，察觉病征就尽速通报，防止疫情扩大。
After vaccination, people in Taiwan wear face masks when entering or leaving public places. They focus on epidemic prevention and its impact on people's livelihood. At the same time, they should not neglect the infectious power of the virus, assess their own situation, report the symptoms as soon as possible and prevent the spread of the disease.
台湾民众本身有习惯佩戴口罩，疫情爆发后，呼吁民众戴口罩、加强卫生习惯并非难事。
The Taiwanese themselves are used to wearing masks, and it is not difficult to appeal to people to wear masks and strengthen hygiene practices after the outbreak.
甚至有医院在门外搭临时棚，民众若有疑虑或是发烧可以前往咨询，做初步检测，不需要进到医院内部，以免造成感染。
Hospitals have even set up makeshift shelters outside the door, where people can consult if they have doubts or a fever, conduct preliminary tests and do not need to enter the hospital to avoid infection.
东森新闻记者前往武汉报道疫情由于台湾新型肺炎首例是在武汉经商的女台商，政府已将武汉旅游列为最高警戒，暂停所有武汉旅行团赴台。
The government has put Wuhan tourism on the top alert, suspending all Wuhan tours to Taiwan because the first case of the new pneumonia in Taiwan is a woman trader doing business in Wuhan.
关于确诊的湖北的55岁女台商，各家媒体都积极追踪报道。
The media have been actively following up on the 55-year-old Taiwanese businesswoman diagnosed in Hubei province.
她在武汉从事教育工作，1月11日出现发烧咳嗽症状，因不信任当地医疗，自行购药服用长达9天，直到1月20日才搭机返台，在桃园机场主动告知检疫人员病征，当下即送往医院，检查结果为肺炎，并确诊为2019新型冠状病毒。
She worked as an educator in Wuhan, developed symptoms of fever and cough on January 11, took medicine for nine days because she did not trust the local medical treatment. She did not get back on the plane until January 20 and voluntarily informed the quarantine staff of the symptoms at Taoyuan Airport.
该患者目前病况为呼吸急促，需要佩戴氧气罩、输液，属于严重肺炎，住在负压隔离病房，没有插管或使用体外循环，没有出现其他并发症，病情稳定。
The patient is suffering from shortness of breath, needs oxygen mask, transfusion, severe pneumonia, living in a negative pressure isolation ward, no intubation or extracorporeal circulation, no other complications, stable condition.
台媒报道新型肺炎：辟谣，不制造恐慌，也提醒民众切勿轻忽而根据东森新闻报道，目前台湾仍有100多位武汉籍游客，相关单位已就旅行团的旅游路线、接触过的人等，进行追踪，不过这100多位游客也因武汉封城无法返乡，留在台湾似乎又“怪怪的”，后续还在观察。
More than 100 Wuhan-based tourists remain on the island, according to the Tongsen news report. However, more than 100 tourists have been traced back to Wuhan, but it seems "odd" to remain in Taiwan.
台湾卫福部召开记者会，说明新型肺炎在台传播情况（图片来源：TVBS）而湖北台商约有4000人，在武汉的大约有2000人，几乎都会返台过年，也会成为防疫的一大挑战。
Taiwan's Wei-fu ministry held a press conference to explain the spread of the new type of pneumonia in Taiwan (source: TVBS). About 4,000 Taiwanese businessmen in Hubei Province, and 2,000 in Wuhan, will return to Taiwan for the New Year.
根据规定，从武汉回台14天内，出现相关症状亟需通报，若隐匿病情、规避检疫，依照《传染病防治法》第69条，需处以新台币1万至15万（约2,300元至34,600元）罚金。
According to the regulations, the relevant symptoms must be notified immediately within 14 days of returning to Taiwan from Wuhan. If a person conceals his illness and evades quarantine, a fine of NT $10,000 to NT $150,000 (approximately HK $2,300 to HK $34,600) is required under article 69 of the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act.
华盛顿邮报报道：美国开始对亚特兰大机场和芝加哥机场的新型病毒筛查1月21日，美国已有一例新型冠状病毒确诊病例，美国疾病防治中心（the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention）宣布华盛顿西雅图出现首例新型肺炎病例。
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States announced the first new case of pneumonia in Seattle, on January 21, when the United States began screening for new viruses at Atlanta and Chicago airports.
据《西雅图时报》报道，该名男子三十多岁，是华盛顿州Snohomish郡居民，15日从武汉回到美国，落地后感到不适并自主联系医护人员进行就诊，目前情况稳定，在华盛顿的普罗维登斯地区医疗中心（Providence Regional Medical Center in Everett, Wash）观察治疗。
The man, who is in his 30s and is a resident of Snohomish County, Washington state, was admitted to the United States from Wuhan on Monday and found himself feeling unwell and contacting health care workers.
上周起，美国三大机场——纽约JFK机场、洛杉矶国际机场、旧金山国际机场宣布将对从武汉飞往美国的乘客进行测量体温、询问症状等筛查，截至今天1200人被筛查并未发现病毒携带者。
Since last week, three major U.S. airports -- New York's JFK, Los Angeles International Airport and San Francisco International Airport -- have announced plans to screen passengers flying from Wuhan to the United States for temperature and symptoms.
芝加哥、亚特兰大国际机场近日也加入详细筛查的队伍。
Chicago, Atlanta International Airport recently joined the detailed screening team.
但美国疾病防治中心认为此次病毒对美国群众威胁不大。
But the CDC says the virus poses little threat to the American public.
纽约时报已经派遣一名中国首席记者Chris Buckley到武汉前线进行报道，感染人数在头条实时更新中。
The New York Times has dispatched Chris Buckley, a leading Chinese journalist, to the Wuhan front line to report on the infection, which is being updated in real time in the headlines.
最新报道聚焦武汉 “封城”，副标题写道：死亡人数翻倍后，疫情集中地中国武汉禁止飞机和火车的始发。
Wuhan, the epicentre of the deadly epidemic, banned flights and trains from Wuhan, China, after the death toll doubled, according to a new report.
并在正文第一段公布“17人死亡”，大部分为年长且曾有健康问题的老人。
In the first paragraph, 17 people died, mostly elderly people with health problems.
纽约时报配图：武汉市汉口火车站门前站岗的警员纽约时报提出几点“病毒须知”：有关部门禁止了更多城市的交通出行，影响数百万人；武汉居民感到焦虑，有些感到愤怒；受感染人群是哪些？冠状病毒是什么？它为什么如此危险？“这次感到极其无力“，一名SARS专家引发警告。
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Police officer posted in front of Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan City raised several "virus tips": authorities have banned more city traffic, affecting millions of people; Wuhan residents are anxious and angry; what is the coronavirus? Why is it so dangerous? "a SARS expert warned.
美国消费者新闻与商业频道(CNBC)相关报道截图今日《囧妈》《姜子牙》《夺冠》等7大影片全部宣布撤出春节档，美国消费者新闻与商业频道(CNBC)表示，这场病毒预计导致14亿人民币(2.1亿美元)票房的亏损，麦格理资本的经济学家Larry Hu警告：“随着感染者数量的增加，最坏的还未到来”。
Seven major films, including Today's Mommy, Ginger and Championship, were pulled out of Spring Festival, according to US consumer news and business channel CNBC, which predicted a box office loss of Rmb1.4bn ($210m) and Larry Hu of Macquarie Capital warned: "As the number of infected people increases, the worst is yet to come."
日本首相安倍晋三发表关于新型肺炎疫情检查事宜邻国日本有一例受感染者，日本官方媒体都对武汉的疫情相当关注，信息和国内的新闻几乎同步，基本都是站在客观中立的角度在跟进感染情况和政府措施。
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has issued a report on the detection of a new type of pneumonia in neighboring Japan.Official Japanese media are concerned about the outbreak in Wuhan, and the news is almost synchronized with the news at home, mostly from an objective and neutral perspective to follow up on the infection and government measures.
据NHK报道，日本首相安倍晋三在1月21日在内阁阁僚会议上表示会对中国的入境人员进行彻底的疫情检查，如果有确诊感染的人，会送往国家传染病研究所进行进一步检查，并控制与感染者的密切接触的人。
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, speaking at a cabinet meeting on January 21, said he would conduct a thorough epidemic of Chinese immigrants and, if there are confirmed cases, send them to the National Institute for Infectious Diseases for further examination and control people in close contact with the infected, NHK reported.
日本药妆店内口罩在打折销售，写着“中国加油” 图源：@王左中右日本当地口罩等卫生用品供货充足，当地也没有排外和恐慌情绪。
Japanese makeup shop masks are being sold at a discount, with the words "China refuels" picture source: @ Wang Zuozhong right Japan local mask supplies sufficient supplies, there is no xenophobia and panic.
除了机场所有的工作人员都佩戴口罩之外，城市里并实际没有影响。
Apart from the fact that all airport staff were wearing masks, there was no physical presence in the city.
有一则微博网友的故事令人动容。
There is a moving story about Weibo netizens.
@YDDoit杨光里:在日留学生，今天看到了一个日本大叔买口罩只买了三包，收银员问他怎么只买这么点。
YDDDoit Yang Guangli: I saw a Japanese uncle today who bought only three bags of masks. The cashier asked him why he only bought such a mask.
他说附近中国学生多，都买了他们就没有了。
He said there were so many Chinese students around that they didn't have any.
同时日本专家白鸥大学教授冈田晴惠，在节目《ひるおび！》中表示中国这次对应疫情的速度很惊人，仅1个月的时间就确认了新型病毒，并将病毒的具体信息迅速地公开报告出来。
Meanwhile, Japanese expert Kyodo Okada, a professor at the University of Kitagawa, said China's response to the outbreak was phenomenal, with new viruses being identified in just a month and being reported publicly and quickly.
“从科学的角度看十分厉害，在仅有27名感染者的情况下就能发现且定性新型病毒，中国的研究人员和疾病预防和控制中心都是非常优秀的。
"From a scientific point of view, the new virus can be found and qualified with only 27 people infected, and Chinese researchers and disease prevention and control centers are excellent.
”根据日本国土交通部的资料，武汉往返东京成田机场、关西机场，中部机场和福冈机场的航班每周有38次。
According to the Ministry of Land and Communications, Wuhan flies 38 times a week to and from Narita Airport, Kansai Airport, Central Airport and Fukuoka Airport in Tokyo.
向乘坐东京成田机场和武汉往返航班的乘客免费分发口罩，机内广播反复建议机内乘客佩戴口罩，并且所有机组人员都必须戴上口罩和手套工作。
Free respirators were distributed to passengers travelling to and from Narita Airport in Tokyo and Wuhan. It was repeatedly suggested that passengers wear masks and that all crew members must wear masks and gloves to work.
面向中国人的旅行意愿调查问卷显示，日本位于春节旅行目的地第一位，对即将到来的春节旅行高峰期，多家媒体都表现出病毒在日本蔓延的担心。
Japan topped the list of Spring Festival travel destinations, with many media outlets expressing concern about the spread of the virus during the upcoming Spring Festival travel peak, according to a survey of Chinese travelers.
日本大阪的便利店，口罩供应充足日本的国际新闻都在大篇幅地报道新型病毒，但日本民众对于此事的关注度并没有很高，口罩等卫生用品供货充足，当地也没有排外和恐慌情绪。
Japanese news outlets in Osaka, Japan, are filling up with new viruses, but Japanese people are not paying much attention to the issue, supplies of sanitary products such as masks are plentiful, and there is no xenophobia or panic.
除了机场所有的工作人员都佩戴口罩之外，城市里并实际没有影响。
Apart from the fact that all airport staff were wearing masks, there was no physical presence in the city.
1月23日的朝日新闻，引用了武汉市政府干部会议上发表的“全面战争状态”，报道表示虽然自1月7日发现新型冠状病毒已有16天，但其感染性和毒性仍然未知。
On January 23, the Asahi Shimbun quoted a "state of all-out war" at a meeting of Wuhan city government officials, saying that although 16 days have passed since the discovery of the new coronavirus on January 7, its infectivity and virulence remain unknown.
大多数专家认为，其感染性和毒性均低于严重急性呼吸综合症（SARS）和中东呼吸综合症（MERS）。
Most experts believe that they are less infectious and less toxic than the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).
但是，由于病毒会改变其特性并增加其传染性和毒性，仍需谨慎对待。
However, due to the fact that viruses change their properties and increase their infectivity and toxicity, caution is needed.
多家媒体担心2020年将在东京举办的夏季奥运会将会受疫情影响，目前东京的奥运组委会已终止了将于2月在武汉举行的拳击预选赛。
Tokyo's Olympic organizing committee has suspended a boxing match in Wuhan in February amid media fears that the Summer Games, to be held in Tokyo in 2020, will be affected by the epidemic.
英国《卫报》头版报道新型冠状病毒武汉肺炎疫情相关报道出现在BBC的YouTube首页截至北京时间23日晚，据英国《每日邮报》最新消息，英国出现4例新型冠状病毒肺炎疑似病例。
The Guardian's front page reports on the new-style coronavirus pneumonia appear on the BBC's YouTube home page Thursday night, four new cases of coronavirus pneumonia are suspected in the UK, according to the Daily Mail update.
4人是来自武汉的中国游客，目前正接受隔离治疗。
The four are Chinese tourists from Wuhan and are being treated in isolation.
其实早在出现疑似病例之前，英国BBC、太阳报等媒体，就发表呼吁：英国也不能掉以轻心！尤其在23日武汉“封城”后，在英国多家主流媒体官网上，哈里和梅根夫妇的新闻已让位，新型冠状病毒（英媒多翻译为：new China coronavirus）疫情相关报道，成为头条。
The BBC, The Sun and other media have called on the BBC and The Sun to take the news seriously, especially after the 23 Wuhan "closure," when news of the Harry and Megan news outlets gave way to headlines about the new coronavirus.
BBC新闻视频中，武汉公共交通站的体温监控画面报道面向主要分为三类：对中国疫情的最新实况的更新，英国国内一系列预防措施的报道，也邀请专家解读新型冠状病毒，进行科普。
According to BBC News, Wuhan Public Transportation Station (Wuhan Public Transportation Station) has three main areas of coverage: an update on the latest situation in China, reports of a series of preventive measures in the UK, and an invitation to experts to interpret the new coronavirus and conduct a popular science campaign.
在伦敦希斯罗机场，一位刚从武汉飞回的英国乘客对记者阐述他的旅程所见据BBC、《卫报》等英媒21日的报道，英国卫生部，将对从武汉飞往伦敦希斯罗的直航航班进行监控，医疗队将在T4航站楼的偏僻区域，对相关人员进行检查。
The British Health Ministry will monitor direct flights from Wuhan to Heathrow, and medical teams will inspect personnel in remote areas of the T4 terminal, a British passenger returning from Wuhan told reporters on his trip.
不过，随着武汉的“封城”举措，该航班现已停飞。
However, with Wuhan's "closure" initiative, the flight has now stopped.
之后，英国天气可能有雨雪和大降温，正是流感高发期。
Then there could be sleet and heavy cooling in Britain, the height of the flu season.
英国卫生部的副局长尼克·菲恩呼吁：“如果有民众在访问武汉后14天内出现呼吸道症状，不论你是在中国还是已经返回英国，都请寻求医疗救助！”《时代报》“肺炎专题”报道“武汉出发的铁路和航运切断”1月22-23日，德国各大媒体纷纷以“飞机和火车停运”“中国切断武汉对外交通”为题，报道了武汉“封城”的消息。
"If people develop respiratory symptoms within 14 days of a visit to Wuhan, whether you are in China or have returned to the UK, seek medical help," Nick Finn, deputy director of the Health Ministry, called on German media to report on Wuhan "closed cities" on January 22-23 under the heading "Air and train disruption."
特派到武汉的外媒记者关注的点，主要在于市内交通停运之后市民的日常生活开展，以及武汉各主要医院的运作情况。
Wuhan, the focus of foreign media reporters, mainly in the city after the closure of the daily life of the citizens, as well as the main hospitals in Wuhan.
德国二台ZDF特派记者Ulf Roeller现场报道例如德国二台ZDF特派记者Ulf Roeller正在以第一视角实地记录和观察城市目前的运转情况，走访居民区，以及在武汉医疗救治中心门外蹲点到深夜。
Two ZDF correspondents in Germany, Ulf Roeller, covered live, for example, Ulf Roeller, a correspondent for Germany's two ZDF stations, is documenting and observing the city's current operations from a first-hand perspective, visiting residential areas, and spending the night outside the Wuhan Medical Center.
德国之声的报道以“对新型肺炎的恐惧”开头德国之声（Deutsche Welle）的记者也在街头采访了多位路人，了解物资供应情况，从报道看城市里的路人非常少，在一线报道的记者多在文中提到了对新型冠状病毒的“担忧”（Angst）。
The Deutsche Welle reporter, whose report began with "Fear of the New Coronavirus," also interviewed passers-by in the streets to find out what the supply of supplies was.
世卫主席谭德塞博士在23日的新闻发布会上目前根据专门负责疾病防疫的罗伯特·科赫研究所（Robert Koch Institute）估计，德国境内人口面临的风险较低。
At a 23-day news conference, WHO President Dr. Theresa Tanner estimates that populations in Germany are at lower risk, according to the Robert Koch Institute, which specializes in disease prevention.
同时，多家媒体提到世界卫生组织（WHO）推迟作出当前疫情是否构成“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”（Global Health Emergency）的决议。
Meanwhile, the World Health Organization (WHO) has been cited in various media as postponing a decision on whether the current outbreak constitutes a "public health emergency of international concern."
当地时间23日，世卫组织将继续开会讨论。
WHO will meet again on the 23rd day of local time.
德国广播电视台“新型冠状病毒专题”报道“武汉铁路和飞机停运”德国广播电台（Deutschlandfunk） 1月23日特别提到与出入境相关的问题。
"The new coronavirus project" on German radio and television reported on January 23 that "Wuhan Railways and Airplanes are out of service." German radio station Deutsche Weltschland specifically mentioned issues related to crossing the border.
旅游行业协会DRV的发言人表示，已与联邦外交部保持密切联系，观察事态的发展。
A spokesman for the travel industry association DRV said it had been in close contact with the Federal Foreign Office to monitor the situation.
德国汉莎航空发言人说，相应的紧急措施可以随时开始。
A Lufthansa spokesman said emergency measures could be taken at any time.
机场协会ADV还表示，已经做好了紧急情况下的详细计划。
Airports Council ADV also said it had a detailed emergency plan in place.
以及，预计将有医疗团队被安排到英国和意大利的某些机场，专门用来应对来自中国武汉的旅客。
And medical teams are expected to be deployed to certain airports in the UK and Italy to cater for visitors from Wuhan, China.
根据世界卫生组织的规定，德国的五个机场必须承担起“保护公共卫生”的核心能力。
According to the World Health Organization, Germany's five airports must assume the "protection of public health" core capacity.
所在的五个城市分别是汉堡、杜塞尔多夫、法兰克福、慕尼黑和柏林。
The five cities are Hamburg, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Munich and Berlin.
如果在航班上发现可疑的新型冠状病毒案例，他们将会被输送到这五个机场，由相应的医护人员来提供医疗支持。
If a suspected new case of coronavirus is found on board the flight, they will be transported to the five airports where medical support will be provided by appropriate medical personnel.
病毒学专家克里斯蒂安·德罗斯滕（Christian Drosten）接受德国每日新闻采访德国每日新闻（Tagsschau）1月21日中午连线采访了德国著名病毒学家、柏林Charité医院教授克里斯蒂安·德罗斯滕（Christian Drosten），他提到“这是一种新的SARS冠状病毒，但目前我们还不太了解这种病毒。
Christian Drosten, a virologist who gave a daily German news interview with the German daily Tagsschau on January 21, interviewed Christian Drosten, a leading German virologist and professor of Berlin's Charité Hospital, who said: "This is a new SARS coronavirus, but we don't know much about it yet.
”以下是德罗斯滕教授提到的几个关键信息：从病毒学的角度来看，这是一种新型SARS冠状病毒。
Here are some of the key messages Prof De Rosten has mentioned: 'From a virological perspective, this is a new SARS coronavirus.
我们以前针对SARS有很多发现，因此节省了很多基础性科研工作。
We have made a lot of discoveries about SARS before, so we have saved a lot of basic research work.
另一方面，我们又必须对疾病的形态进行全新的了解。
On the other hand, we must have a new understanding of the shape of the disease.
全球传播是有可能的，我们对此病知之甚少。
Global transmission is possible, and we know very little about the disease.
不知道这意味着它是否会大流行。
I don't know if that means it's going to be pandemic.
人们认为，SARS话题永久结束了，该病毒已被消除。
It is believed that the SARS issue has come to an end once and for all and the virus has been eliminated.
现在，它又返回了另一个变体。
Now, it returns another variant.
我们已经可以想象到它的来源可能类似，同样来自野生动物。
We can already imagine that its origin may be similar, also from wild animals.
电子显微镜下被染色的冠状病毒关于药物，我们应对SARS的时候已经做过很多工作，但是疫苗非常复杂。
The coronavirus dyed under an electron microscope About drugs, we have done a lot of work on SARS, but the vaccine is very complicated.
不仅在中国，而且北半球都处于流感季中。
Not only in China, but also in the northern hemisphere is in the flu season.
许多患者的症状看起来与病毒流感非常相似。
Many patients have symptoms that look very similar to viral influenza.
我们必须在实验室中测试样品，才能确认是否是这种新病毒引起的。
We have to test the samples in the lab to see if it was caused by the new virus.
从我的角度来看，现在过度警惕是有道理的。
From my point of view, it makes sense to be overly vigilant now.
因为我们知道得太少，同时我们看到，整个事情显然正在迅速蔓延，发展速度非常惊人。
Because we know too little, and we see that the whole thing is clearly spreading rapidly, at an alarming rate.
现在，武汉需要你的支持。
Wuhan needs your support now.
官方最新公告捐赠方式如下：▼▼。
Why don't we Why don't we Why don't we do this?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉肺炎疫情成全球焦点：我们知道得太少，最坏的还没到来。
Wuhan pneumonia epidemic into the global focus: we know too little, the worst has yet to come.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "一条";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉肺炎疫情成全球焦点：我们知道得太少，最坏的还没到来";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="一条";。
var title = & quot; & quot; a & quot;;
