孝感前线医生：武汉更难，我们下面不好意思提要求。
Filial piety Frontline Doctor: Wuhan is even more difficult. We are sorry to ask for it.
卫诗婕。
Wei Shijie.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
武安医生（化名）所在的医院是孝感市三家抗疫医院之一。
The hospital where Dr. Wu An (alias) is located is one of the three anti-epidemic hospitals in Xiaogan City.
距离武汉66公里的孝感是距离武汉最近的地级市，截止到1月28日上午，有确诊病例173例。
Wuhan 66 kilometers away from the sense of filial piety is Wuhan's nearest city, as of January 28 morning, 173 confirmed cases.
与暴风眼武汉一样，以孝感为代表的武汉周边小城也正在经历着决战时刻。
With the eye of the storm Wuhan, with filial piety as the representative of the small city around Wuhan is also experiencing a decisive moment.
坐诊之外，武安参与了数十个民间互助组织，将捐赠物资对接到省内的上百家医院，目睹了抗疫前线的最真实画面。
In addition to sitting, Wu'an participated in dozens of non-governmental mutual aid organizations, donated materials to the province's hundreds of hospitals, to see the epidemic front line the most real picture.
本文电话采访于1月27日晚进行。
This telephone interview took place on the evening of January 27.
请继续关注疫区的最新疫情进展。
Please keep an eye on the latest situation in the affected areas.
···············❶“我们把全省医院当成兄弟，自己医院一点也没留“因为对外发布了求助信息，一个知名基金组织联系上了我。
"We regard hospitals all over the province as brothers and leave no trace of their own" A well-known fund contacted me because of the help information it had posted.
由于我几乎能联系到湖北所有二甲医院以上的一线医生，我开始深入地参与民间物资对接。
Since I was able to contact almost all the first-line doctors in Hubei province, I began to be deeply involved in civilian material docking.
后来一下子衍生了几十个互助群。
Dozens of mutual help groups sprang up.
现在每天一睁眼就是物资信息。
Now every day when you open your eyes is material information.
一些民间团体只认武汉的四大家医院：同济、协和、中南、省人民。
Some non-governmental organizations only recognized the four Wuhan hospitals: Tongji, Concorde, Central and South, provincial people.
底下的小医院不认。
The little hospital down there doesn't recognize it.
可恰恰底下的县市得到的救援更少，情况很迫切。
But exactly the bottom of the county to get less relief, the situation is very urgent.
我在互助总群里，同时联系着省内各地的医院，哪家的防护服库存告急，我先派一百防护服过去应急。
I am in the mutual help group, also contact the province's hospitals, which protective clothing stock is urgent, I sent a hundred protective clothing to the emergency.
刚开始有人担心我们下面医院中饱私囊，其实我们把全省医院当成兄弟，自己医院一点也没留。
At first some people worried about our hospital in the private enrichment, in fact, the whole province hospital as a brother, their own hospital did not leave.
我们医院一直准备得挺充分。
Our hospital has always been well prepared.
在疫情公布之前，我们院提前买了一批防护服和n95口罩。
Before the outbreak, our hospital bought a batch of protective clothing and N 95 masks in advance.
为了抗疫，院长已经空出了一部分床位做隔离病房。
The dean has set aside part of his bed for an isolation ward to fight the disease.
孝感市此前有两家定点，1月27日新开了一个东南医院定点（原本是私人医院，地广人稀），从别家医院各出一部分医护人员到新定点。
Xiaogan City has two targeted, January 27, a new southeast hospital (originally a private hospital, sparsely populated), from another part of the hospital to the new location.
因为要支持办新定点医院，我们原先储备的物资就不足了。
Our original stock of supplies was inadequate to support the opening of the new designated hospital.
其实我们医院物资比武汉还缺，但武汉很惨，我们下面不好意思要。
In fact, our hospital supplies than Wuhan is short, but Wuhan is very sad, we are sorry to have to.
可武汉周边的需求量太大了。
But the demand around Wuhan is too great.
就拿我们院来说，现在医院公告，非一线医生不发n95，不向民间求救。
Take our hospital for example, now the hospital announcement, non-first-line doctors do not issue N 95, do not call for civil help.
偶尔门诊的人受不了了，在社交网络上发一点求助信息，但是没有响应的。
Occasionally, out-patients can't take it anymore. They post a little help on social networks, but they don't respond.
门诊的医生想要一件一次性手术衣，要了三天没要到，就穿个白大褂接诊。
The doctor at the clinic wanted a disposable surgical coat, and after three days of missing, he wore a white coat to receive treatment.
我还有一个朋友在孝感市定点医院呼吸科病房，因为物资匮乏，医生只戴口罩接触高度疑似病人，感染风险巨大。
I also have a friend in the respiratory ward at Xiaogan designated hospital, because of lack of supplies, doctors only wear masks contact highly suspected patients, the risk of infection is high.
科室已经有三个医生发烧。
The unit already has three doctors with fever.
只能把医生和病人关在一起隔离，边隔离，边负责病人的诊疗。
Doctors and patients can only be placed in isolation, side by side with the patient's diagnosis and treatment.
我每天都在手机上鼓励这个朋友。
I encourage this friend on my mobile phone every day.
他第一天很崩溃，对我说，“我可能会死在里面”。
He broke down on his first day and said, "I might die in there."
这几天情绪稳定了，他安慰自己，至少现在医院装备全了。
He consoled himself that he had been in a stable mood for several days, at least now the hospital was fully equipped.
但实际上并不是这样。
But that is not actually the case.
孝感市唯一一家三甲医院，物资缺到什么程度？护士长召集了所有护士，拆了办公室所有文件夹，扎两个眼，用输液管穿过孔绑在脑袋上，这样就做成了一个防护面罩。
The head nurse gathered all the nurses, tore down all the office folders, pierced both eyes and tied the infusion tube through the hole to the head, thus creating a protective mask.
有完整的视频攻略教我们几家医院怎么自制护目镜，一直在医生群里流传。
A complete video guide taught us how to make our own goggles in several hospitals, which has been circulating among doctors.
医生们进隔离病房之前要喊一声加油，进去的时候穿了防护服但是没有n95。
The doctors had to shout for gas before entering the isolation ward. They went in wearing protective clothing but not N 95.
很多医院一直自称物资充足，可我去到他们的急诊科，看到大夫身上穿的防护服连一级标准都达不到，正常要求至少是三级。
Many hospitals have been claiming to be well stocked, but I went to their emergency department and saw that the doctor was wearing protective clothing that did not meet the first-class standard and the normal requirement was at least three levels.
他们没有一次性帽子，就去手术室拿鞋套套在头上。
They didn't have disposable hats, so they went to the operating room to get a condom on their heads.
社区医生还惨一些（社区医院刚开始不承担任务，突然承担诊疗任务，根本接不过来），把大桶的农夫山泉塑料桶用刀割开套在头上，接上两个过滤器，过滤器里用食盐替代活性炭。
The community doctor was miserable (the community hospital had just taken on the task of diagnosis and treatment and was unable to take it at all), cutting buckets of Nung Fu Shan spring plastic bucket over his head with a knife, attaching two filters and substituting salt in the filter for activated carbon.
对于本市疫情的情况我也是担忧的。
I'm also worried about the outbreak in this city.
我们孝感刚开始1例都没有，后来一次性报道22例，目前的病例数173例，低于黄冈的213例，这是不太符合流行病学的（因为大数据显示，武汉流向孝感人口多于流向黄冈）。
Our filial piety did not begin with one case, and then 22 cases were reported at one time, with 173 cases now, down from 213 in Huanggang, which is not very epidemiological (big data show that Wuhan flows more filial than to Huanggang).
这可能是前期缺少试剂盒，及临床没有确诊权，诊断权在疾控中心有一定关系。
This may be a lack of pre-test kits, and clinical right to diagnosis, the right to a certain extent in the CDC.
但根据经验，有几点基本可以断定这个人是新冠携带者：1.有疫区接触史。
However, based on experience, there are a few basic conclusions about this person being the new crown bearer: 1.
2.血常规白细胞和淋巴细胞大幅降低。
2. Significant reduction of routine leukocytes and lymphocytes.
3.肺部ct呈现毛玻璃样——如果这些全中，也只能在病例上写“诊断病毒性肺炎可能性大”。
3. Pulmonary CT presents a glassy appearance - if all of this is correct, it should only be written in the case of "high probability of diagnosis of viral pneumonia."
但处理都是绝对隔离（终于用上了事先准备的隔离大楼）。
But the treatment was total isolation (eventually using a pre-prepared isolation building).
和武汉一样，随着时间推移，后面会有更多确诊病例，不排除超过黄冈的可能。
As in Wuhan, with time, there will be more confirmed cases, not excluding the possibility of overtaking Huanggang.
目前，我们院的一次性手术衣只有400多件，但我们有一千多名医生。
At present, our hospital has only 400 disposable surgical clothes, but we have more than a thousand doctors.
医用帽子一个都没有。
None of the medical hats.
在病房里我就戴一个普通口罩。
I wear an ordinary mask in the ward.
春节之前我们科就只有100个外科口罩，护士就用普通口罩带两层三层自己安慰自己，其实大家做过实验，普通口罩戴几层都和一层是一样的。
Before the Spring Festival, we only had 100 surgical masks, nurses used ordinary masks with two layers of self-comfort, in fact, we have done experiments, ordinary mask wearing a few layers are the same as the first.
就是这几天，民间组织问我，我们医院还缺不缺物资？我说我们什么都缺，什么都要。
Just these days, the non-governmental organizations asked me, our hospital is still in need of supplies? I said we want everything, everything.
他让我列了个需求单子，我小心翼翼地填，口罩一千个。
He asked me to draw up a list of requirements, and I carefully filled out a thousand masks.
他们自主帮我把一千个改成了一万个。
They helped me turn a thousand into ten thousand.
还有人要花几万块钱买了几百个防毒面具，说这个肯定管用。
Hundreds of gas masks were bought for tens of thousands of dollars, saying it would work.
真的是很感动。
I'm really touched.
❷“希望调整政策，放一些小快递进来”其实从官方公布的数字上看，物资问题应该已经解决了。
"Jet hope to adjust the policy, put some express delivery in" actually from the official figures, the material problem should have been solved.
官方数据显示武汉有45万个护目镜。
Official figures show that Wuhan has 450,000 goggles.
问题在于红会和慈善管控着物资，在民间自助组织里，我们志愿者每天三个人装一集装箱，每天满武汉跑，发物资发到半夜，可红会五十个人忙不过来。
The problem is that the Red Cross and charity control supplies, in the civil self-help organizations, we volunteers three people a day loaded a container, every day full of Wuhan, sending supplies to the middle of the night, the Red Cross can be 50 people busy.
封城之后，车辆封了快递也封了，民间捐助都卡在外面。
After the closure of the city, the vehicles were sealed and the private donations were stuck outside.
很多物资的快递是给我们地方的，但是武汉不让过。
A lot of express delivery of goods is for our place, but Wuhan did not allow.
周边县市的医院只能用120开车去接，接了就跑。
Hospitals in neighboring counties and cities can only use 120 cars to pick them up and run.
黄冈市某三甲医院就开着120跑了127公里到武汉接那720个口罩。
A Sanjia hospital in Huanggang City drove 120 kilometers to Wuhan to pick up the 720 masks.
接完后立刻返回医院执行接诊任务。
Immediately thereafter, he returned to the hospital for a medical consultation.
这几乎是武汉周边普遍现象。
This is almost universal around Wuhan.
只能开120，其他车过不了高速。
We can only drive 120. Other cars can't cross the freeway.
26日我给麻城那边的医院分口罩，运送物资的车辆停在一座桥上，桥长一公里左右，医生飞奔往桥的另一端，电话里他气喘吁吁，就怕车辆不等他，就为了1500个口罩。
On the other side of the town, I distributed face masks to the hospital. The vehicles carrying the supplies were parked on a bridge about a kilometer long. The doctor was speeding to the other end of the bridge.
因为他们医院一个口罩都没有了。
Because none of their hospital masks were there.
就拿民间资助我们的医用手套来说，有两三千双，但一直都在物流上卡着，过不来。
In the case of the civilian-funded medical gloves, there are two or three thousand pairs, but have been stuck in logistics, can not pass.
从鄂州到麻城因为封路要跑四天。
It takes four days to seal the road from Huizhou to Massachusetts.
怕物资过不来大家都发顺丰，传说顺丰有绿色通道。
We are afraid that the goods do not pass everyone Shunfeng, legend Shunfeng green channel.
到现在顺丰也不敢接了。
Even now Shunfeng dare not take it.
库存太多发不出去，搞乱了。
Too much inventory to go out, messed up.
我就希望能够通过媒体呼吁，希望能适度调整封城政策，放一些小快递进来，风险小，但是能解救临床几百人的安全，医务人员等不了了。
I just hope to be able to appeal through the media, hope to moderate the closure policy, put some small express in, the risk is small, but can save hundreds of clinical safety, medical staff can not wait.
现在很多合格的快递在路上没法被接收。
Now many qualified couriers can't be accepted on the road.
❸“拿着钱买不到东西，见到东西就想买”还有一点要提醒大家，要小心诈骗。
"Zen" money can not buy things, see things want to buy "there is another point to remind everyone to be careful of fraud.
我对接的民间组织中，很多学生把压岁钱拿出来给我们捐。
In the civil society organizations I docked, many students gave us lucky money to donate.
8毛钱的口罩卖6块钱他们都舍得买，这次疫情中出现很多哄抬物价的不法商家。
They are willing to pay 6 yuan for dime masks. There are a lot of illegal businesses that inflate prices in this epidemic.
这些孩子为了骗我们接受，就说是花几毛钱买的，实际上很贵。
These children, in order to deceive us into accepting it, said it was bought for a few cents, which is actually very expensive.
我在群里说，大家冷静一下，不能让那些黑心商人发国难财。
I said in the group, calm down, do not let those black-hearted businessmen make money.
食髓知味，会造成更严重的后果。
A taste of myelin can cause more serious consequences.
这两天我进所有群都发现大家在讨论一批国外口罩kf94，2800万只，国外卖三块钱一只，过关要六块以上一只。
Over the past two days, I found that we were discussing a batch of foreign masks kf94.28 million, foreign sales of three dollars a, customs clearance more than one.
总额都过亿了。
It's all in the billions.
居然有人说要把这2800万只吃下来。
Someone said they were going to eat 28 million of them.
kf94号称可以替代n95，但实际上只相当于外科口罩，且未经过我国标准测试。
The kf94 is claimed to be an alternative to n-95, but it is virtually equivalent to a surgical mask and has not passed our standard tests.
这批口罩的出现我非常存疑，性价比很低。
The appearance of these masks I am very skeptical, cost-effective very low.
我很担心这批孩子，其实他们没什么钱，这些年轻人拿着手头不多的钱买不到东西，见到东西就想买。
I'm worried about these kids. They don't have much money. These young people can't buy anything with their little money on hand.
我还很多次在群里发现骗子，他们冒充是民间购买者和商家，煽动群内气氛，但话语里错漏百出。
I have also found cheats in groups many times, masquerading as private buyers and businessmen, stirring up the atmosphere within the group, but full of errors and omissions.
我在群里喊停，没有人理我，我就私信其他成员，告诉他们这是骗子。
When I stopped in the crowd and no one paid me any attention, I privately trusted the other members and told them it was a liar.
后来我们大家都不说话，这几个骗子就退群了。
When all of us said nothing afterwards, the swindlers backed out.
前两天物资进不去武汉，有人说可以来高速公路上接物资，我和同伴一起开车送去。
Two days ago supplies could not enter Wuhan, some people said to be able to pick up supplies on the highway, I drove with my friends.
结果对方是假志愿者，接到手后转手就卖了。
As a result, the other party is a fake volunteer, received the hand and then sold.
原本想着这些志愿者冒着自己被感染的风险还在外面跑来跑去，内心非常感动，就没有任何怀疑。
There was no doubt that the volunteers were running around at the risk of becoming infected.
后来给医院打电话发现没有接到物资，才知道上当了。
Later I called the hospital and found that I had not received any supplies before I knew I had been tricked.
出了这样的极端案例后，我们就开始直接对接医院。
After such extreme cases, we began docking directly with the hospital.
再后来我们都直接对接到医生。
Then we all went straight to the doctor.
一些胆小的医院不敢私自接受，但也有一些医院总是接得很爽快，看见物资直接抵达前线，我内心也非常激动。
Some timid hospitals are afraid to accept them without permission, but others are always very forthcoming, and I am thrilled to see supplies arrive directly on the front line.
来自民间捐助的物资❹“总理来了，大家都很振奋”大概是在2019年12月20号左右，我知道了冠状病毒的出现。
"The Prime Minister is here and everyone is excited," he said. "I knew about the coronavirus around December 20, 2019.
刚开始我们觉得是流感，眼见发热病人越来越多，心想按这种情况下去，非典早晚要再来一场。
At first we thought it was the flu. We saw more and more febrile patients and thought that if it goes on like this, SARS would have another fight sooner or later.
当时没想到是新型冠状病毒。
I didn't think it was a new coronavirus.
真正感觉到严重性，是武汉把华南海鲜市场封了。
The real sense of seriousness is that Wuhan has closed the South China seafood market.
听武汉的朋友说，华南卖野味，此前政府从来都不管。
Listen to Wuhan friends said that South China sells game, the government has never been concerned about.
这是个信号。
This is a signal.
我觉得坏了，疫情要扩散，马上要过年了，止不住了，春运一开始全国都要受影响了，结果果然，每一步都按照我们担心的方向走的。
I think bad, the epidemic to spread, will soon be the New Year, can not stop, the beginning of the Spring Festival will be affected throughout the country, the results are sure, every step according to our fear of the direction.
武汉市内的政务也不太畅通。
The political affairs in Wuhan are not very smooth either.
有一个消息是我经过求证的。
There is a piece of information that I have verified.
上海的医疗团队来武汉支援，人家是带着物资来的，往金银潭派了百八十人。
The medical team from Shanghai came to Wuhan to support them. They brought supplies and sent 180 people to the gold and silver pools.
可到了之后，发现病人们没有饭吃，医生们就把自己的饭让给病人，可一直干到下午两三点，还是没有饭吃。
When they arrived, however, they found that the patients had no food. They gave up their food to the sick until two or three in the afternoon.
医生们向区长反映，对方回答说“我们正在开会解决这个问题”。
The doctors told the district chief that "we are having a meeting to solve this problem."
群里真是在破口大骂：一百个专家没饭吃，这个还要开会来解决？民间有四个人希望给医生们送饭，但是车子不让上路。
A hundred experts had nothing to eat, and this had a meeting to settle. Four folk people wanted to bring food to the doctors, but the car was not allowed to go on the road.
1月27日，总理来了，大家都很振奋。
On 27 January, the Prime Minister arrived and everyone was heartened.
总理没来之前，我武汉的朋友说，“我要死在武汉了”。
Before the Premier came, my friends in Wuhan said, "I am going to die in Wuhan."
总理去了金银潭医院，视频里大家全在哭。
The Prime Minister went to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, where everyone was crying.
我看到视频时我也哭了。
I cried too when I saw the video.
这段时间大家都经历了什么，实在是永生难忘。
What we all went through during this time is really unforgettable.
我希望互相鼓励，但也知道这次一定会是场持久战。
I wanted to encourage each other, but I knew it would be a long fight.
我27日被通知，明天要去东南医院隔离病房了。
I was told on the 27th that tomorrow I would go to the isolation ward of Southeast Hospital.
现在大家都抢着去，没有去到一线，我们觉得很惭愧。
Now we all rushed to the front, did not go to the line, we feel very ashamed.
几次报名去隔离医院我都是第一个报名的，但是规定主任先上，然后党员上，然后才是非党员。
I was the first to sign up to quarantine the hospital several times, but the director was required to go first, then the party member, then the non-member.
所以没轮到我。
So it's not my turn.
这次我第一个报名，无论如何也要去。
I am the first to sign up this time.
可大家都去了本院科室怎么办？医院就说谁后报名谁留在科里。
But we all went to the hospital section how to do? The hospital said who signed up to stay in Corey.
我不管，我第一个报名必须得去。
I don't care. I have to go first.
我们退二线的老院长56岁，他最后报名，但也要求一定要去。
We retired the second line of the old dean 56 years old, he finally signed up, but also asked to go.
他56岁了，因为物资紧缺，上发热门诊连一次性手术衣都没穿。
He was 56 years old, and the fever clinic didn't even wear a disposable surgical suit because of shortages.
钟南山19号来到武汉，23号武汉宣布封城。
Zhong Nan Shan 19 came to Wuhan, 23 Wuhan announced the closure.
这段时间武汉很多人就开始往外跑。
During this time, many people started to run out of Wuhan.
到现在我也很愧疚，我不知道向我打听消息的这些人中，有多少是得到消息后就连夜出城的。
I'm sorry too, and I don't know how many of these people who asked me for information got out of town overnight.
据我所知，最远的是开车跑到了黑龙江。
As far as I know, the furthest is to drive to Heilongjiang.
我的一个邻居，我当时对他说你别走，出去就是害人，如果确定了感染还要判刑的，他现在在北海，他老婆确诊了。
One of my neighbors, I told him that you don't leave, go out is harmful, if the infection is determined to be sentenced, he is now in the North Sea, his wife diagnosed.
我们小区里有个33岁的女人，她爱人陪她辗转各大医院，没有一家收治的。
There was a 33-year-old woman in our neighborhood. Her wife had run over all the major hospitals with her.
一个大男人陪他老婆每天哭哭啼啼的，但他们夫妻很负责任，没有回小区，一直都在外面的酒店住。
A big man accompanied his wife to cry every day, but they are very responsible husband and wife, did not return to the community, has been living outside the hotel.
前几天他们被一家乡镇卫生院收治了，我27日一早给他发信息，到现在也没回。
A few days ago, they were admitted to a township hospital, I sent him a message early on the 27th, has not returned.
（采访时不停咳嗽）我之前得过流感，因为带病坐诊，五个星期都没好。
(coughing during the interview) I've had the flu before and I haven't gotten over it for five weeks because I was in sick.
这些天每次咳嗽都怕别人害怕，于是不停吃镇咳药。
Every time I cough these days, I am afraid of others' fear, so I keep taking cough medicine.
我把老婆孩子送回了老家。
I sent my wife and kids back home.
他们每天都和我联系。
They contact me every day.
我报名去了隔离医院，没和老婆说，但她了解我，问我你是不是报名了要去？她说你报了就和我说，我不会阻止你，但是你自己要做好防护，没有防护的时候不要把防护让给别人。
I signed up for the seclusion and didn't talk to my wife, but she knew me and asked me if you'd signed up to go? She said I wouldn't stop you if you did, but you have to protect yourself and not give up when there's no protection.
她知道我能干出这种事。
She knew I could do such a thing.
没办法，身为医生，这个时候顾不了那么多了。
I can't help it. As a doctor, I can't take care of that.
我要对得起自己的良心。
I want to live up to my conscience.
我们一个前线大夫，很多天没有回家了，有天和孩子视频，孩子对着屏幕说，爸爸你别动，我抱一下你。
One of our front-line doctors didn't come home for days, and one day we had a video with our kids, and the kid said to the screen, Dad, don't move. I'll hold you.
就是孩子太想他了。
It's the kids who miss him so much.
武汉周边城市的多家医院，仍有物资缺口，急需社会各界予以援助。
Wuhan surrounding the city of a number of hospitals, there is still a material gap, in urgent need of social assistance.
如有援助捐赠意向，请您点击文末的阅读原文，查看各城市医院联系方式，与其取得联系。
If you are interested in donating aid, please click on the text at the end of the text to check the contact information of the city hospitals, contact them.
让我们一起帮助疫区百姓渡过难关！GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that can help prevent and treat the epidemic, please contact us at any time! Whether you are a health care worker, patient and family member, suspected patient, material supplier, transporter, volunteer, epidemic area service personnel, professional with knowledge of epidemic situation.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋撰文：卫诗婕编辑：何瑫运营编辑：肖呱呱。
Let's work together and get through this together! Reply eggs backstage with the public, and send you a colorful egg.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
孝感前线医生：武汉更难，我们下面不好意思提要求。
Filial piety Frontline Doctor: Wuhan is even more difficult. We are sorry to ask for it.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "孝感前线医生：武汉更难，我们下面不好意思提要求";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Wuhan is harder.
var msg_desc = "我们把全省医院当兄弟，自己一点也没留。
var msg _ desc = & quot; We used the provincial hospital as a brother and didn't leave a trace of it ourselves.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '我家离华南海鲜市场很近：返乡、封城、过年，一位武汉大学生的过去一周',。
My home is near South China's seafood market: home, town, New Year's Eve, and a Wuhan college student's last week or so.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '面对疫情压力该如何应对不良情绪困扰？来自北师大心理学部的专业建议',。
How did you respond to AT & amp; P's stress? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '10000个临时发往武汉的口罩',。
AT & P; 10000 temporary masks & amp; apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & Wuhan.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '一份实时更新的新冠肺炎防护援助指南（官方信息、防护措施、援助渠道汇总）',。
A real-time update of its New Crown Pneumonia protection assistance guide (official information, protective measures, and a summary of aid channels) & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
