被家乡推开的人 | 武汉人③。
Wuhan people who were pushed away by their hometown.
三声                      。
Three voices.
三声。
Three voices.
『三声』，由彭博商业周刊核心内容团队创办于2016年5月，着力从商业角度关注“新娱乐、新消费、新青年”，为从业者和投资者提供富有预见性与启发性的深度原创报道。
Founded in May 2016 by Bloomberg Business's Core Group, the Three Voices focuses on "new entertainment, new consumption, new youth" from a business perspective, providing predictable and inspiring in-depth original reporting for practitioners and investors.
。
.
The following article comes from 消费新声。
The following article comes from consumption.
Author 江婧怡。
The Jardine River.
消费新声。
Consumption news.
『消费新声』由三声核心内容团队创办，专注于从商业角度解读年轻人在消费和生活领域的更新升级，为泛消费领域的从业者和投资者提供富有预见性、启发性的深度原创报道。
Founded by the Three Core Group, the Consumer Sounds focuses on understanding young people's life and consumption from a business perspective, providing predictable, inspirational, in-depth, original coverage for practitioners and investors in the broader consumer world.
。
.
关注并星标消费新声不错过泛消费任何最新动态疫情带来的恐慌并没有因为离汉通道的关闭而结束。
The fear of a new spending binge that doesn't miss any of the latest developments did not end with the closure of the Han Channel.
这些有意或无意得以在特殊时间节点前离开武汉、回到家乡的人，一律非自愿地变成了"逃兵"和"瘟神"。
Those who left Wuhan and returned home at a particular point in time, either intentionally or unwittingly, involuntarily became & quot; deserters; and & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
借由网络迅速扩散的个人信息形成了一次针对武汉归乡者的围剿。
The rapid spread of personal information by the network formed a campaign against Wuhan returnees.
人们对难以捕捉和控制的疾病的恐惧，依托武汉乃至湖北的多级市县有了实体，抗击疫情最终变成了对一个个具体的人的歧视。
Fear of diseases that are difficult to capture and control rests on the existence of entities in Wuhan and even in several cities and counties in Hubei Province, where the fight against the epidemic eventually becomes discrimination against specific individuals.
作者 | 江婧怡编辑 | 罗立璇来源 | 消费新声回到山东东营老家的秦礼没能过上一个好年。
The way Ms Luo has spent the new year returning to her hometown of Dongying, Shandong, has not had a good year.
从大年初二开始，她收到最多的并不是“新年好”的问候，而是来自许多陌生人的关怀消息：“祝你早日康复。
From the beginning of New Year's Day, she did not receive the "New Year" greetings, but from many strangers caring news: "Wish you a speedy recovery.
”她并不觉得感动，只觉得诡异。
She was not moved, but strange.
今天即将结束观察期的她并未出现任何新型肺炎的症状，但在这些陌生网友的口中，这个从武汉回来的医学生高热不退，已经进了重症监护室。
She did not show any symptoms of new pneumonia at the end of today's observation period, but the student returned from Wuhan with fever and went to intensive care unit.
这一切突如其来的关心都因为一张在网上广泛流传的表格截图，上面统计了包括秦礼在内的7位发热病人的信息，详尽到身份证号、家庭住址和个人电话，以及他们由武汉归乡的身份。
All of this sudden concern was prompted by a spreadsheet, widely circulated online, that included statistics on seven febrile patients, including Qin Li, detailed to identity numbers, home addresses and personal phone numbers, as well as their status as returnees from Wuhan.
自1月23日武汉宣布“封城”起，两天之内，30个省市自治区陆续启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Since Wuhan declared the city closed on January 23, 30 provinces and autonomous regions have launched major public health emergency first-level response within two days.
疫情防控落实到基层，街道、居委会、村委会等社会基层管理主体开始对所有武汉返乡人员进行全面排查和信息上报。
Prevention and control of the epidemic at the grass-roots level, streets, neighborhood committees, village committees and other basic social management bodies began to carry out comprehensive screening and information reported to all returning Wuhan personnel.
随之而来的，是网络上以截图和文档形式广泛传播开的信息泄露事件开始在各地密集发生。
This was followed by the widespread dissemination of information leaks on the Internet in the form of screenshots and documents, which began to occur intensively in various locations.
疫情带来的恐慌并没有因为离汉通道的关闭而结束。
The panic caused by the outbreak did not end with the closure of the Han corridor.
这些有意或无意得以在特殊时间节点前离开武汉、回到家乡的人，一律非自愿地变成了“逃兵”和“瘟神”。
Those who were able to leave Wuhan and return to their homeland, either intentionally or unintentionally, were involuntarily turned into "deserters" and "distempers."
借由网络迅速扩散的个人信息形成了一次针对武汉归乡者的围剿。
The rapid spread of personal information by the network formed a campaign against Wuhan returnees.
人们对难以捕捉和控制的疾病的恐惧，依托武汉乃至湖北的多级市县有了实体，抗击疫情最终变成了对一个个具体的人的歧视。
Fear of diseases that are difficult to capture and control rests on the existence of entities in Wuhan and even in several cities and counties in Hubei Province, where the fight against the epidemic eventually becomes discrimination against specific individuals.
这些天，秦礼总是在和我说，她很想回武汉。
These days, Qin Li always told me that she would like to go back to Wuhan.
离开之前，她还是一名活跃在前线的医学生；返回家乡之后，她的一切标签都被剥除。
Prior to her departure, she was an active medical student on the front line; upon her return home, all her labels were removed.
面对医院轻易下的发热诊断，面对被肆意转发的个人信息，面对院子里突然出现的陌生轿车，秦礼什么也做不了。
Faced with the hospital's easy feverish diagnosis, the face of the arbitrary transmission of personal information, the face of the yard suddenly appeared strange cars, Qin Li can do nothing.
因为此刻，她只是一个“从武汉回来的人”。
Because at the moment, she is only a "person back from Wuhan."
不允许跨过的线1月20号，秦礼结束了在医院的最后一天值班。
Not allowed to cross the line on January 20th, Qin Li ended his last day on duty at the hospital.
对于医学院的规培生来说，这样放假的时间还算是早的。
For medical school students, such a holiday time is still early.
按以往的经验，被安排值班到除夕夜，或者大年初一、初二，都是很正常的事情。
According to past experience, it is normal to be on duty until New Year's Eve, or the first two days of the New Year.
今年受武汉疫情的影响，医院各科室陆陆续续都给医学生放了假，让他们尽早回家。
This year by the impact of the Wuhan epidemic, hospital departments have successively given medical students leave, let them go home as soon as possible.
秦礼买了21号回山东的票。
Qin Li bought a ticket to Shandong on the 21st.
她听说高铁已经开始登记一切从武汉出发的人员，前一天钟南山也刚刚出面，对疫情做出了正面回应，肯定了新型肺炎的“人传人”。
She has heard that the high-speed railway has begun to register all from Wuhan, the day before Zhong Nan Shan has just come forward, made a positive response to the epidemic, confirmed the new pneumonia "person-to-person."
但一路上，她并没有被拦下。
But she was not stopped along the way.
“我就有点慌，以为是政府把我漏了”。
"I was a little nervous, thinking the government had left me out."
回到村里的老家，秦礼开始自觉地自我隔离，每天测量体温。
Back home in the village, Qin Li began to consciously self-isolation, daily temperature measurement.
连续两天都测出了37度1、37度2的数值，虽然知道她本身基础体温就偏高，但在目前的特殊情况下，秦礼的父亲还是不放心。
The 37 degrees 1 and 37 degrees 2 were measured for two consecutive days, and although she was known to have a high base temperature, Qin's father was uneasy under the special circumstances.
“我就想着去县里的医院检查一下，然后顺便报个备。
"I'll just go to the hospital in the county and check it out.
”直奔医院的发热门诊，秦礼向导医说明了她刚从武汉回来，以及这几天自己体温偏高的情况，希望可以做个检查，图一份心理安慰。
"On her way to the hospital's hot clinic, Qin Li's doctor explained that she had just returned from Wuhan and that she had a high temperature these days.
值班医生从诊室出来，询问了她的体温情况，没有做听诊，也没有安排血常规检查和拍CT，“第一句话就是‘那隔离呗’”。
The doctor on duty came out of the consultation room and asked about her temperature. There was no auscultation and no routine blood test or CT.
这个回应让学医的秦礼很是反感。
The response was repugnant to the medical scholar Qin Li.
刚从一线回来的她已经在医院经历了二十余天的防疫战斗状态，她拿出第1版《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》与医生解释，自己并没有达到隔离的标准，要求医生等她的检查结果出来之后，再决定是居家观察还是住院隔离。
She has just returned from the first line of the hospital has experienced more than 20 days of epidemic prevention, she took out the first version of the "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Program" and explained to doctors that she did not meet the criteria for isolation, and asked the doctor to wait for the results of her examination before deciding whether to stay at home or stay in isolation.
而且根据常识，当时秦礼测出的体温是36度8，而那几天她体温最高值是37度2，“在医学上不算发热，低热的诊断标准是37度3”。
According to common sense, Qin Li had a body temperature of 36 degrees 8, while her temperature peaked at 37 degrees 2 degrees on those days.
医生同意了，并把她带到了另一个门诊室。
The doctor agreed and took her to another clinic.
一位护士拿走了她的病历，却在上面写下了“发热4天，听诊双肺呼吸音粗”。
A nurse took her medical history and wrote on it, "Fever for 4 days, two lungs of auscultation breathing thick."
秦礼立刻判断出护士是按照肺炎的症状写的，并当场提出了这个诊断在操作上的不专业，“我还没有做检查却给我写了上去，万一出现什么问题，到时候我就解释不清楚了。
Qin Li immediately judged that the nurse had written according to the symptoms of pneumonia, and raised on the spot the unprofessional operation of the diagnosis. "I wrote it to me without an examination, and if anything should happen, I couldn't explain it.
”她回头想再去找那位医生理论，却被告知她不能进到急诊室里面。
She wanted to go back to the doctor, but was told she could not get into the emergency room.
这时候秦礼才明白过来，急诊室门口画着的那条横线，原来是用来隔离所有从武汉回来的人的。
Only then did Qin Li realize that the horizontal line painted in front of the emergency room had been used to isolate all those who had returned from Wuhan.
自行做完所有检查，秦礼的一切生命体征都显示正常，也没有医生护士继续来要求她留院观察，她就回家了。
After all her examinations, all the vital signs of Qin Li showed signs of normality, and no doctor or nurse continued to ask her to stay in the hospital. She went home.
第二天，一通从县医院打来的电话要走了她的身份证号和家庭住址，“我当时觉得应该是来统计被漏掉的武汉归乡人员信息的，于是没多想就都报了上去。
The next day, a phone call from the county hospital asked for her identity card number and home address. "I thought it was supposed to be to count the missing Wuhan returnees, so I didn't think about it.
”当天是除夕，秦礼在县医院的遭遇没有影响到这家人的团圆饭，和所有传统山东家庭一样，她家吃了饺子。
"It was New Year's Eve, and Qin Li's treatment at the county hospital did not affect the family's reunion dinner, which, like all traditional Shandong families, she ate dumplings.
村里的一切也和往年的情况没有什么太大不同，各家吃着各家的年夜饭，围坐在电视前看春节联欢晚会，窗外的鞭炮声一挂接着一挂响，热闹依旧。
Everything in the village was not very different from what had happened in previous years. Families were eating their New Year's Eve dinners, sitting around the TV watching the Spring Festival Gala, and the firecrackers outside the windows were still ringing.
一直在刷手机消息的秦礼始终开心不起来。
Qin Li, who has been brushing mobile phone messages, has never been happy.
她和武汉的距离在一条条朋友圈和群消息中，变得无比接近，这些熟悉的人和地方，变成了抗疫一线故事的主角。
The distance between her and Wuhan, in the circle of friends and groups of news, has become very close, these familiar people and places, became the leading role in the first story of the epidemic.
秦礼所在的医院防护物资告急，发出了接受校友捐赠的公告。
Qin Li where the hospital protection material crisis, issued a declaration of acceptance of alumni donation.
医学院的老师和同学不少还留在前线，却缺少必要的N95口罩和护目镜。
Many medical school teachers and students are still at the front line, but lack the necessary N95 masks and goggles.
最后，是科室主任崩溃痛哭的视频，让她大哭了一场。
Finally, the head of the section collapsed into tears of the video, so she cried a big.
过了零点，秦礼发了一条朋友圈：“我的同学朋友、老师同门就这样突如其来地被推到了前面。
After the zero point, Qin Lifa a circle of friends: "My classmate friends, teachers and colleagues were pushed out of the door so suddenly.
就像一场噩梦，却没办法醒过来，担心、恐惧、懦弱、挫败、无力……分不清是什么情绪在让我心烦意乱。
It's like a nightmare, but I can't wake up, worry, fear, cowardice, frustration, weakness... I can't tell what's driving me crazy.
一直问自己能做什么，却发现什么都做不了，去不了一线，没有物资，没有钱，连在家都让家里人陪着一起隔离。
I kept asking myself what I could do, but I found I could do nothing, I couldn't get to the front line, I had no supplies, no money, even at home with my family to separate.
”在这段文字的结尾，她许下了鼠年的第一个心愿：希望一觉醒来，会有好消息。
"At the end of the passage, she made the first wish of the Year of the Rat: that when she woke up, there would be good news.
院子外的轿车她没能如愿。
She couldn't get the car out of the yard.
从26号早上开始，她开始频繁收到陌生人的好友申请，地区都是山东东营，而且多数都在申请理由里写道“祝你早日康复”。
Starting from the morning of the 26th, she began to receive frequent applications from friends of strangers, all in Dongying, Shandong Province, and most of them wrote "Wish you a speedy recovery."
那时山西、浙江、福建等地已经出现了武汉返乡人员遭遇信息泄露的案例，秦礼猜测，她应该是遭遇了类似的事情。
In Shanxi, Zhejiang, Fujian and other places, Wuhan returnees have encountered information leakage cases, Qin Li guessed that she should have encountered a similar thing.
通过了几个看起来比较友善的人，他们的回答验证了她的推测：登记着她1月23日在县医院看病信息的表格被泄露了出去，并在网络上流传开来。
Several more friendly-looking people were passed, and their answers confirmed her theory that the form registering her medical information at the county hospital on 23 January had been leaked out and circulated on the Internet.
这张名为《部分发热病人信息统计表》的表格截图中，包括秦礼在内的七个人均有武汉地区接触史，但有三个人甚至没有登记体温数据和首次发热时间，其中一位的症状一栏写的是“无症状”。
Seven people, including Qin Li, had a history of contact with Wuhan, but three of them did not even register body temperature data and the first time they had a fever, and one of them had symptoms that said "asymptomatic."
秦礼当天测得的36度8的体温没有被标注上去，留在上面的数据是她当时报给医生的自测最高体温37度2，总结症状为“发热”。
The 36-degree-8 temperature measured by Qin Li on the day was not marked. The figure was 37 degrees 2 degrees, the highest self-test she reported to her doctor at the time.
也就是说，她的体检结果并没有被采纳，当时向医生护士提出的顾虑并没有被解决，县医院仍然依照病历上的诊断做了登记。
In other words, the results of her medical examination were not taken into account, the concerns raised with the doctors and nurses at the time were not addressed and the county hospital was still registered on the basis of the medical records.
她还得到了另外一个文档，文件名是《东营457人（1）》。
She was also provided with another file, entitled 457 East Battalion (1).
从1月1日到1月20日，东营市457人包括身份证号、户籍地详址、车次班次在内的个人信息标注得清清楚楚。
From January 1 to January 20, 457 people in Dongying City, including identity number, address and number of cars, were clearly marked.
而这样的表格在东营，人们可以轻易从他们的社交网络中获得并继续转发。
In the East Camp, such forms are easily accessible from their social networks and continue to be forwarded.
▲秦礼收到的表格，收录了东营市457人的交通信息她询问县医院1月24日打来电话收集信息的人，得到的回复是这份表格并非从他这里泄露出去，这事不归他管。
Qin Li received the form, the 457 Dongying City traffic information she asked the county hospital on January 24 to collect information, the response is not from him, this matter is not his concern.
秦礼又拨打了截图里县疫情处理领导小组办公室的联系电话，得到的回答一模一样。
Qin Li also called the screenshot of the county epidemic management team office contact phone, the answer is exactly the same.
“我很生气，就反问他们‘不是你泄露就没有你们的责任了吗？’”领导小组办公室的联系人承诺帮秦礼处理这件事情，但她发现这张截图依旧在东营的各个群聊中传播。
"I was so angry that I asked them, 'Didn't you reveal it or have no responsibility for you?'" The contact at the Leading Group office promised to help Qin Li deal with the matter, but she found the screenshot was still circulating in the East Camp chats.
到晚上，秦礼开始大量收到陌生号码发来的关怀短信，微信的未添加好友有二三十个，一些朋友、同学也突然发来表格截图和问候，询问她的身体情况。
In the evening, Qin Li began to receive a large number of strange number of care text messages, micro-letters of 20 or 30 friends, some friends, students also suddenly sent a form screenshots and greetings, ask her physical condition.
让她感到愤怒的是，连她正在读高三的弟弟也收到了同学们发来的截图。
To her annoyance, even her brother, who was in her third year of high school, received a screenshot from her classmates.
班主任私下嘱咐弟弟，让他暂时不要去上学。
The headmaster privately told his brother not to go to school for the time being.
秦礼报了警。
Qin Li called the police.
她查过《传染病防治法》，疾控机构故意泄露疑似传染病病人个人信息的，将要承担法律责任。
She checked the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Law, and the CDC will bear legal responsibility if it knowingly divulges the personal information of patients with suspected infectious diseases.
“我非常明白现在是国难当头，但是也不应该忽视人权。
"I know very well that this is a difficult time, but human rights should not be overlooked.
并且我刚从一线回来，武汉什么情况我比他们都清楚，我也比他们更清楚疫情防护需要大家共同的努力，所以我一直都在自我隔离。
And I just came back from the first line, Wuhan what I know more than they know, I also know more than they need to work together to protect against the epidemic, so I have been isolated.
”那天，警察没有出警，但秦礼从自家的监控里看到，院子外面莫名停了好几辆车。
"The police did not come to the police station that day, but Qin Li saw from his surveillance that several cars were parked outside the courtyard.
“大过年的，现在不能串门，不能走亲戚，谁会在马路边上停那么久，而且车上那些人我们没有见过。
"We can't visit our relatives, we can't stay on the side of the road for so long, and we haven't seen the people on the bus.
”1月28日，也就是正月初四这天，一个远房亲戚没有提前跟秦礼家里打招呼就来串门。
On January 28, the fourth day of the first month, a distant relative came to visit Qin Li's house without saying hello in advance.
在离家门还很远的时候，他们就被车上的人拦下了，或者用秦礼的原话说，是“驱赶、驱逐”。
They were stopped at a great distance from their homes by the occupants of the vehicle, or, in Qin Li's words, "expelled."
看着妈妈跑出去解围的背影，秦礼突然感到特别恐惧。
Seeing his mother run out of the back of the rescue, Qin Li suddenly felt a special fear.
“我自己想隔离，跟他们在外面监视我完全不是一种心情。
'I want to isolate myself, 'he said.' It's not my mood at all to watch me outside.
他们这样，仿佛我已经病入膏肓，而且我们全家人现在都是病毒的源头，就差给我们家贴个封条了。
They do, as if I were terminally ill, and our whole family is now the source of the virus, leaving us without a seal.
”遭遇信息泄露的第二天，秦礼还接到了一通骚扰电话，“那人说我不该回来，把病毒带回来”。
The day after the leak, Qin also received a harassing phone call saying "the man said I shouldn't have come back and brought the virus back."
她思考再三，还是把这件事告诉了爸爸。
She thought it over and over, but she told her father about it.
因为自己坚持追责这件事，父女俩已经冷战了两天。
The father and daughter had been at war for two days because of their insistence on pursuing the matter.
“刚开始他也非常生气，我不知道他给谁打了电话，这些人劝我爸让我不要抓着这个不放，不要再闹事，他们说疫情面前没有个人隐私。
"He was very angry at first, I don't know who he called, and the people advised me not to hold on to this, not to cause any more trouble. They said there was no privacy in front of the epidemic.
我爸被说服了。
My father was convinced.
”同样的矛盾也曾发生在1月份秦礼还在武汉的时候。
The same contradiction occurred in January, when Qin Li was still in Wuhan.
那时还没有针对新型肺炎的大规模报道，她只能靠一遍遍强调她从一线了解到的疫情的严重性，来说服父母今年不要串门走亲戚。
There were no mass reports of new pneumonia, and she had to convince her parents not to visit her relatives this year by emphasizing the severity of the outbreak she had first-hand.
当时，医学生的身份并没有让她在家里得到公信力；但现在，“我告诉他们，不需要那么恐慌的时候，他们又开始莫名其妙的紧张。
At the time, being a medical student did not give her credibility at home; but now, "I tell them they don't need to panic so much, they start getting strangely nervous.
”不能理解女儿为何如此执着的秦礼爸爸，相信疫情已经发展到很多事都可以为之让位的地步。
Unable to understand why her daughter is so persistent, Mr Qin believes the epidemic has grown to the point where many things can give way.
但在秦礼看来，这并不是一个可以简单解释为谁屈从谁的问题，“错了就是错了，违法就是违法，无论在任何时期，泄露公民个人隐私，只要中国还是中国，都是犯法的。
But, in Qin's view, this is not a simple question of who yields to whom. "Wrong is wrong, and breaking the law is against the law, and it is illegal to reveal the privacy of individual citizens at any time, as long as China is still illegal.
做错了事情要道歉，一个小朋友都懂的道理，大人却都忘记了。
Do wrong things to apologize, a little children understand the truth, but adults have forgotten.
”父女谈话的结果是互不干涉，秦礼继续维权，她爸不再尝试劝服她接受现况。
"The father and daughter talked and did not interfere, and Qin continued to defend her rights.
在接下来的几天里，从市卫健委到县卫健委，再到市疫情处置工作指挥部，甚至市长热线，她几乎把能找到的相关部门都找了个遍。
In the next few days, from the city health committee to the county health care committee, to the city epidemic management work command, and even the mayor hotline, she almost all can find the relevant departments.
2月2日，秦礼告诉我她终于收到了市卫健委的反馈，说隔离期之后会同她详谈。
On February 2, Qin Li told me that she had finally received feedback from the municipal health committee that she would talk to her after the quarantine period.
她上一次和他们对话是5天前，当时对方的回复是这些信息都要求公示，并给了她县卫健委的电话。
The last time she spoke to them was five days ago, she was told that all the information was for public display and she was given a phone call from the county health committee.
与此同时，她传给我了一份《关于进一步做好疫情防控工作安全保密工作的紧急通知》，发出者是市疫情处置指挥部办公室，落款时间1月27日，也就是她遭遇信息泄露的第二天。
At the same time, she sent me an "Emergency Notice on Improving Safety and Secrecy in the Prevention and Control of Outbreaks," issued by the Municipal Outbreak Command Office on January 27, the day after the information leaked.
办不下来的通行证对武汉这座城市，秦礼本来既不讨厌，也算不上有感情。
Can not do down the pass to Wuhan, this city, Qin Li was neither hate, nor do not have feelings.
她是被调剂到的武汉，当初只是把它当作离开山东的一块跳板。
She was transferred to Wuhan, it was only used as a springboard to leave Shandong.
在老家发生这样的事情后，她对武汉产生了前所未有的归属感，“起码比我们这里好”。
After what happened in her hometown, she developed an unprecedented sense of belonging to Wuhan, "at least better than here."
从大年三十开始，她就再没出过门。
She hasn't been out of the house since New Year's Eve.
听村里的大喇叭通知，他们村从大年初一开始封路，进村的路都用土垒了起来，只留一两个口可以出小车。
Listen to the village loudspeaker notice, their village from the beginning of the beginning of the road, the road into the village are built up with dirt, leaving only a mouth or two can get out of the car.
村委会大年初二挨家挨户上门，说今年过年村里不能串门，“就抄河南的作业了，先不管怎么样，先拿过来抄了再说。
Village committee door-to-door on Tuesday, said this year's village can not visit, "copy Henan's homework, no matter what, first take it over to copy.
”秦礼指的是过年期间在微博上流传的多个视频和照片，河南的多个乡村对疫情传播严阵以待，在村口采取了垒墙、堆土，甚至挖断道路的措施来断绝人员流动。
"Qin Li refers to videos and photos circulating on Weibo during the Lunar New Year, with villages across Henan bracing for the spread of the epidemic, using walls, dirt and even road-breaking measures to block the flow of people.
之后有媒体指出，以这种极端方式限制村民人身自由或许有违法的嫌疑。
The media later pointed out that restricting villagers' personal freedom in this extreme way might be illegal.
她开始羡慕起那些因为“封城”没有离开武汉的同学。
She began to envy those who did not leave Wuhan because of the "closure".
留在学校的学生虽然收到了尽量不要离开宿舍的通知，但做好防护之后，他们仍能出门去超市，买完菜在宿舍围坐着煮火锅。
Although the students who stayed in school received the notice not to leave the dormitory as much as possible, they went out to the supermarket, bought the dishes and sat around the dormitory to cook the hotpot.
学生食堂也从大年初三，开始提供免费餐食并将便当送到宿舍楼下。
Student canteens also offer free meals from the third day of the new year and will be convenient to send under the dormitory.
“他们过得比我们开心多了，我们所有回家的人都被限制了人身自由，人家最起码是自由的。
"They are so much happier than we are, and all of us who come home are confined to personal liberty, at least free.
”1月27日，她所在医院的规培办下发了疫情防控管制期间的培训工作安排通知，在学校没有通知延期开学的情况下，无特殊情况的学员均需返回武汉继续完成培训工作。
On January 27, her hospital's planning office issued a notice on training arrangements for the period of control of the epidemic, requiring students with no special circumstances to return to Wuhan to complete their training without being notified of the extension of the school year.
没有确定的返院时间和回汉方法，在武汉各医院均物资告急的情况下，也无法做出安全保障的承诺，这一通知引起了医学生的极大反弹。
There is no definite time to return to the hospital and the method of Hui Han, Wuhan hospitals are in urgent need of supplies, can not make a commitment to security, this notice caused a great backlash from medical students.
但秦礼则迫不及待地向老师提出了申请，因为规培办可以帮忙开具回武汉的临时通行申请。
But Qin Li was eager to apply to the teacher, because the program can help to back Wuhan temporary admission applications.
召医学生回汉那天，秦礼听说已经有个同学拿到了临时通行证，当天就瞒着家里人从老家一路坐高铁到了长沙。
On the day he called the medical students back to Han Dynasty, Qin Li heard that one of his classmates had got a temporary pass.
但这位同学在转车进武汉的关口被拦了下来，因为高铁站的工作人员并没有接到相关的放行通知。
However, the student was stopped at the entrance to Wuhan, because the staff of the high-speed railway station did not receive the relevant release notice.
先行者的失败降低了她的心理预期，因为比起回不去，不想留是她更迫切的问题。
The failure of the first mover lowered her psychological expectations, for not wanting to stay was a more pressing issue for her than not being able to return.
她跟我说，她计划过2月1日回武汉，但学校不久前刚下发了通知，所有春节离校学生一律不准提前返校，这意味着规培办不再可能帮助学生回汉。
She told me that she planned to return to Wuhan on February 1, but the school had recently issued a notice that all Chinese New Year school leavers would not be allowed to return to school early, which meant the program would no longer be able to help students return to Han.
许多在武汉的同学听说她想回去，也劝她冷静，“但我待不下去了。
Many students in Wuhan heard that she wanted to go back, also advised her to calm down, "but I can not stay.
”自从发现家里被人监控以后，秦礼已经好几次跟家里人提过想回武汉去。
"Qin Li has mentioned several times to his family that he wanted to go back to Wuhan since he found out that his family was being monitored.
“他们都说回武汉还要消耗掉那里的物资，但我觉得我在那里都是好的。
"They all said it would take a lot of supplies to get back to Wuhan, but I think I was good there.
而且最起码回去了，我们家就不用这样了。
And at the very least, we don't have to.
”回武汉的希望暂时破灭以后，秦礼只能继续在家等待隔离期的结束。
"After hopes of returning to Wuhan were temporarily dashed, Qin Li had to stay at home and wait for the end of the separation period.
这些天她的心情起伏总是很大，为了调适心情，她会有意找一些好消息来看，“如果最近没有看到求物资的信息，我就会觉得很开心，好像疫情能控制住了，觉得这个东西快熬到头了。
In order to get used to her mood, she would look for some good news. "If I haven't seen the request lately, I feel very happy, as if the epidemic is under control, and I think it's coming to an end.
”▲电影《流感》剧照在秦礼告诉我她回不去武汉的那个晚上，我问过她一个问题：如果武汉有一天真的非常需要人，在不能保证充足防护的条件下，要召集一批志愿上前线的医学生回去，有多少医学生会乐意回去？“我觉得大家大部分会回去吧，像我们这种一腔孤勇的人，真是不少，说难听了就是一根筋。
"Flu Flu" shot on the night Qin Li told me she couldn't go back to Wuhan, I asked her a question: If Wuhan was really in need of people one day, how many medical students who volunteered to go to the front would be happy to go back without adequate protection?
”她的同学中，其实已经有一些家就在武汉本地的医学生回到医院，我的一位朋友就是其中之一。
A friend of mine was one of her classmates who had already returned home to a local Wuhan medical student.
虽然不在核心科室，但因为前线人手不够，在医院都给学生放假之后，他仍然要留在医院值班，应对急诊病人和复诊的患者，配备的装备是普通的医用外科口罩和一次性的隔离衣。
Although not in the core section, owing to a shortage of front-line staff, he remained on duty at the hospital after the school holidays, responding to emergency and revisits, equipped with regular medical surgical masks and disposable isolation clothing.
除夕夜那天，他所在的科室接诊了一个小男孩，发热，没有戴口罩，哭嚎着漫天咳嗽。
On New Year's Eve, his office treated a little boy with fever, did not wear a mask, and howled as he coughed.
他们最终判断患者的病症可能是新型冠状病毒感染在少儿身上的表现，建议他的父母送他去发热门诊。
They finally decided that the patient's symptoms might be the result of a new coronavirus infection in young children and advised his parents to send him to a fever clinic.
在伤医事件频发和如今高压的防疫战斗状态之下，我的这位朋友一度跟我吐槽过学医不值得。
At one point, my friend spat on me that it wasn't worth it, given the high incidence of injuries and the high-pressure state of the epidemic.
不过当科室召唤他回去的时候，他又跟我说，“作为一个医学生，我对科室还是有感情、有责任的，我觉得还是应该去帮忙。
But when the department called him back, he told me, "As a medical student, I still have feelings and responsibilities to the department, I think I should go to help.
总要有人去，我不去，别人的压力会更大。
There's always someone to go. If I don't go, other people will be even more stressed.
我就觉得我过去分担点压力就会好一点。
I thought it would be better if I shared some of the stress.
”类似的话秦礼也跟我说过。
"Similar words Qin Li also told me.
她曾跟我提起，她读医学也是被调剂的，继续学医是觉得以后起码能找到一份工作。
She told me that she had been transferred to medicine, and continued her studies in the hope of finding at least one job in the future.
这次她如此迫切地想要回武汉，与其谈医学理想和牺牲精神，更多的是，她想在被平等看待的前提下，做一个至少能派上点用场的人。
This time she was so eager to go back to Wuhan to talk about medical ideals and sacrifice, and more importantly, she wanted to be treated as if she were at least as useful as possible.
“他们都说学生不用上临床，但万一能用到我帮帮忙都是好的，好歹能守着自己科室，不给他们添麻烦。
"They say students don't have to go to the clinic, but in case I can help, it's good to be able to keep to their own department and not cause them any trouble.
反正就是这样，总想能做点什么。
That's it. Always trying to do something.
”*为保护采访对象隐私，文中主人公姓名秦礼为化名end©消费新声原创内容 转载请联系授权【爆料或寻求报道】加微信号：Suburb001 【商务合作】加微信号：sansheng_kefu。
: www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cnYouTheme (wwwyoutheme.cn) www.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cnwww.youtheme.cn
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被家乡推开的人 | 武汉人③。
Wuhan people who were pushed away by their hometown.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "三声";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "被家乡推开的人 | 武汉人③";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一名武汉医学生的归途";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Ride & quot; with a Wuhan medical student;;
title: '我在医护出行互助群的72小时 | 武汉人①',。
At least 72 hours and days at the Medical Travel Service at & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '消费新声',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一场属于2020年的互联网营救活动｜武汉人②',。
& nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '消费新声',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="三声";。
var title = & quot; 3 & quot;;
