抗疫时期的中国舆论场②：从局面到「人」。
Chinese public opinion field in the period of fighting epidemic: from situation to person.
三声编辑部。
Three editorial offices.
消费新声                      。
Consumption news.
消费新声。
Consumption news.
『消费新声』由三声核心内容团队创办，专注于从商业角度解读年轻人在消费和生活领域的更新升级，为泛消费领域的从业者和投资者提供富有预见性、启发性的深度原创报道。
Founded by the Three Core Group, the Consumer Sounds focuses on understanding young people's life and consumption from a business perspective, providing predictable, inspirational, in-depth, original coverage for practitioners and investors in the broader consumer world.
。
.
关注并星标消费新声不错过泛消费任何最新动态虽然有人关心局面，有人关心“人”，但是在舆论场上，大家已经开始团结在一起了。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Despite concerns about the situation and concerns about people, there is already a beginning to rally around the world of public opinion.
作者 | 张友发抗疫时期的中国舆论场继续展示着复杂性，并且是以一种更加被凝视的方式。
The Chinese public-opinion scene at the time of Zhang Yue's epidemic continues to show complexity, and in a more peering way.
除夕当夜极大的情绪压力释放之后，从第二天（1月25日）开始，整体舆论场趋向稳定和积极：“第一舆论场”的焦点在于可控的整体局面，积极的防疫行动和医护人员的奉献精神，特别是武汉和湖北发生的良性变化；在被允许的话语空间里，“第二舆论场”中的公共媒体的焦点在于对人的关切，特别是对于危机中个体人物命运的命运。
From the second day (January 25), the focus of the "First Opinion Field" was on the overall situation under control, active epidemic prevention and the dedication of medical personnel, especially the benign changes that occurred in Wuhan and Hubei. In the permitted speech space, the public media in the "Second Opinion Field" focused on human concerns, especially the fate of individuals in the crisis.
从客观上看，“第一舆论场”开始权力上升，到1月27日，“第一舆论场”的话语权和影响力已经得到较为充分的发挥。
From an objective point of view, "the first public opinion field" began to rise in power, by January 27, the "first public opinion field" voice and influence has been relatively full play.
“团结一致，众志成城”已经成为中国国内舆论场的主流情绪。
"Unity, unity of purpose" has become the mainstream sentiment in China's domestic public opinion field.
对“第二舆论场”而言，经过4天的短暂活跃、尖锐和喧闹之后，也不得不进入另一个阶段。
For the "second opinion field," after four days of brisk, shrill, and tumultuous moments, it has to move on to another stage.
它们在这场疫情之中所拥有的空间也逐渐得到确定。
The space they have in the midst of the epidemic is also gradually being determined.
社交媒体重新回到之前已经习惯的语境和表达之中，既有人恐慌中对湖北和武汉进行地域攻击，以辟谣之名施以网络暴力，也有人为物资捐赠和防疫而奔走。
Social media have returned to the contexts and expressions to which they were accustomed, ranging from regional attacks on Hubei and Wuhan in panic to cyber violence in the name of disinformation to material donations and vaccination campaigns.
虽然有人关心局面，有人关心“人”，但是在舆论场上，大家已经开始团结在一起了。
Although some people are concerned about the situation, some people care about "people," but in the public opinion field, people are beginning to unite.
大局从1月25日开始，从引导性动作来说，官方媒体开始释放出升级疫情防护和防疫大局稳定的积极信号，关注疫情积极变化的力度加大；从管制性动作来说，谣言治理机制更多维度地活跃和严格起来，相关社交媒体平台也加强了审核和处罚力度。
From January 25 onwards, in terms of guiding actions, the official media began to release positive signals of the escalation of the epidemic and stabilization of the epidemic, the intensity of the positive changes in the epidemic; from the regulatory action, rumour governance mechanisms have become more active and rigorous, and the relevant social media platforms have intensified their vetting and punishment.
例如，1月25日，微信安全中心在当天正式发布《关于新型冠状病毒肺炎相关谣言专项治理的公告》，通过引进专业第三方辟谣机构进行辟谣，并视违规程度对违规账号进行阶梯式处罚，包括但不限于对账号或账号功能进行限期或永久封禁处理。
For example, on January 25, the Center for Microsecurity officially issued the Announcement on the Special Administration of Rumors Related to New Coronavirus Pneumonia, denying rumors through the introduction of a professional third-party rumor-busters, and imposing step-by-step penalties, including but not limited to fixed-term or permanent blocking of account numbers or account functions.
1月27日，微博也对进行人身攻击和网络暴力的35个帐号进行了禁言处罚，其中包括过去一年的舆论场里颇为活跃的「上帝之鹰_5zn」。
On 27 January, Weibo also banned 35 accounts for physical attacks and cyberviolence, including the "Eagle of God _ 5zn," which had been active in the media over the past year.
1月26日，相关部门指出要“推动网上形成众志成城、守望相助、合力抗击疫情的强劲正能量”，“为疫情防控工作营造网上良好氛围”成为题中之义。
January 26, the relevant departments pointed out that to "promote the formation of the Internet into a city of people, watching over each other, to work together to fight the epidemic," "to create a good online atmosphere for disease prevention and control work" became a topic of discussion.
在当今的舆论环境中，特殊信息发出和扩散的传播往往与所谓的“谣言”联系在一起。
In today's public-opinion environment, the spread of specific messages is often associated with so-called "rumors."
通过严格的封禁机制对新媒体进行约束和规训，一定程度上导致“第二个舆论场”的空间开始收缩。
To a certain extent, the space of the "second opinion field" began to shrink through the strict ban mechanism to restrict and regulate the new media.
同时，关于谣言背后机制的讨论也更多停留在传播和法理上。
At the same time, the discussion about the mechanism behind the rumor is more in the field of dissemination and jurisprudence.
1月27日，「传播学之思」刊登了旧文《谣言作为一种社会抗议》，提到谣言也可能是人们达成何为“真实”的一致意见的努力。
On January 27, the old article "Rumours as a Social Protest" was published in the "Communication Thoughts," referring to rumors that might also be an effort to reach an "authentic" consensus.
如果在一种社会秩序中信息被严密控制，对新闻的需求大于制度性渠道的信息供应时，谣言就会大量繁殖。
If in a social order information is tightly controlled, the demand for news is greater than the supply of information from institutional channels, rumors proliferate.
1月28日，最高人民法院发表文章称，执法机关面对虚假信息，应充分发挥信息发布者、传播者在主观上的恶形成，及其对事物的认知能力。
On 28 January, the Supreme People's Court issued an article stating that law enforcement agencies, faced with false information, should give full play to the subjective evil formation of information publishers and disseminators, as well as their cognitive ability to things.
只要信息基本属实，发布者、传播者主观上并无恶意，行为客观上并未造成严重的危害，对这样的“虚假信息”理应保持宽容态度。
As long as the information is basically true, publishers and disseminators of subjective no malicious, objectively no serious harm caused by such "false information" should maintain a tolerant attitude.
在“第一舆论场”之中，以往能够调动大众的煽情式转发话语，比如香港事件期间的#五星红旗有14亿护旗手#，在这次也没有引起太大波澜。
In the "First Opinion Fields," it used to be possible to mobilize popular sensational transmissions, such as the # 5-Star Red Flag with 1.4 billion flag-bearers during the Hong Kong incident #, which did not cause much trouble this time.
真正能够形成扩散效应的是疫情信息，比如「人民日报」发布的《紧急寻人！这些车次、航班内有新型肺炎患者》等。
What really matters is the spread of information, such as "Urgent Search! There are new pneumonia patients on these trains and flights," published by the People's Daily.
在一场变化多端的疫情面前，大众对信息量的需求远远超过立场和情绪的选择。
In the face of a volatile epidemic, the mass demand for information far outweighs the choice of positions and emotions.
官方媒体也在有意增加对大众的信息输出量和集中整理度。
Official media are also deliberately increasing the output and centralization of information to the general public.
例如，新华社1月26日在微信上发布的《疫苗正在研发！告诉你30条好消息》、1月27日发布的《同心抗疫！这些消息请您关注》、1月28日发布的《抗击疫情！这20条消息请关注》等。
For example, "Vaccines are being developed! 30 Good News!" released on January 27, "Concentric Anti-epidemic! Please pay attention to these news," January 28 released "Fight the epidemic! Please pay attention to these 20 news."
同时，此类媒体开始将灾区的焦点范围扩大，逐渐关注和影响此前宣传的盲区。
At the same time, such media began to expand the focus of the affected areas, gradually focusing on and influencing previously advertised blind areas.
必须指出的是，“第二舆论场”此前就对此进行了呼吁。
It is important to note that the "second opinion field" has been calling for this.
例如，「人民日报」在25日、26日连续发布《爸妈，听话！预防新型肺炎，请听儿女6句劝》和《紧急呼吁！防控疫情，别把农村漏了！》，将关注和动员的目标对准了中老年和农村人群。
For example, on May 25 and 26, the People's Daily published "Mom and Dad, obedient! Prevention of new pneumonia, please listen to children" and "Urgent Appeal! Prevention and control epidemic, do not leave the countryside!"
中央电视台也在1月25日之后加大对疫情的播报比重。
CCTV also increased its coverage of the epidemic after January 25.
26日晚间9点半，央视新闻频道播放名为《战疫情》的特别节目，主要内容是疫情的官方通知和前线的情况报道。
At 9: 30 pm on Saturday, CCTV News broadcast a special program called "The War of the Epidemic," featuring official notices of the epidemic and reports from the front lines.
此时，在综艺频道播放的娱乐节目里，底部也出现疫情健康提醒的滚动信息。
At this point, in the variety channel broadcast entertainment programs, the bottom of the epidemic health warning also appeared rolling information.
曾在十七年前的抗“非典”中扮演重要角色的「新闻调查」，其节目组在1月26日宣布前往武汉。
On January 26, the program team of the "Press Survey," which played a major role in the fight against SARS 17 years ago, announced its departure for Wuhan.
1月28日，广电总局宣传司每天统筹全国卫视节目编排，指导加强疫情防控报道，减少娱乐性节目，并及时发布36家卫视全天节目指引。
On 28 January, the Propaganda Department of the State Administration of Radio, Television and Radio coordinated a daily nationwide television programme to guide efforts to strengthen epidemic prevention and control coverage, reduce entertainment programmes and issue timely guidelines for 36 full-day television programmes.
除湖北外，湖南、浙江、安徽、重庆等多家省级卫视均开设了抗击疫情新闻直播节目和特别报道，及时发布权威信息。
In addition to Hubei, Hunan, Zhejiang, Anhui, Chongqing and other provincial-level satellite TV stations have set up programs and special reports to combat the epidemic, timely release authoritative information.
政府新闻发布会的密度也开始提高。
The intensity of government press conferences has also begun to increase.
在1月26日下午举办的新闻发布会上，卫健委主任马晓伟承认，当前病毒传播性增强，疫情比较严峻复杂。
At a press conference on the afternoon of January 26, Wei's director, Ma Xiaowai, acknowledged that the virus is spreading more rapidly and the epidemic is more serious and complex.
时政评论博主「兔主席」在微博上对这场发布会进行了表扬：“发布会做的不错，信息量很大。
"It was a great conference and a lot of information," said the blog's chairman, "Chairman Rabbit," on Weibo.
”在民众心中拥有声望和信任的专家也纷纷开设微博，或者出面接受媒体采访，将理性的符合秩序要求的声音传递出去，以平稳民众情绪，坚定民众意志。
Experts with established reputations and trust in the public eye have also started microblogs or come forward to give interviews to the media, delivering rational, orderly voices to calm popular sentiment and strengthen the will of the people.
不过，失败的新闻发布会能在很大程度上引发舆论的反噬，破坏“第一舆论场”努力构建的一致性。
However, the failure of the press conference can cause a great deal of public opinion backlash, undermine the "first opinion field" efforts to build consistency.
1月26日晚，三位在这次疫情中作用重要的湖北地方官员在新闻发布会的表现，引发了舆论环境再次的极大反弹。
On the night of January 26, three local officials in Hubei province, who played an important role in the outbreak, gave rise to a great rally in the public opinion environment.
对重大新闻评论区的封锁和留言筛选一贯是官方防范言论极端化的有效手段，但在这次的新闻发布时，一些按惯例可能会被雪藏的数字和观点也出现在了热评区，主流媒体的评论区开放给了表达不满的民众。
Blockages and message screening of critical news sites have been an effective way to protect the authorities from radicalization, but at the time of the press release, some figures and opinions that might have traditionally been frozen appeared in the hot zone, and the comments section of the mainstream media was open to voicing dissatisfaction.
1月27日晚，武汉市长在中央电视台的对话专访承认信息的披露不及时，并做出自己的解释。
On the night of January 27, Wuhan city chief in the CCTV dialogue interview admitted that the disclosure of information is not timely, and made their own interpretation.
这位一直饱受批评的官员，还第一次公开表示将自己的政治前途放在抗击疫情的大局需要之下。
For the first time, the official, who has been heavily criticized, has publicly placed his political future at the forefront of the fight against the epidemic.
但是，这种看上去无私无畏的言论，没有得到大众民意的理解。
But this seemingly intrepid statement is not well understood by the public.
在抗击疫情的斗争中弘扬正能量的舆论要求中，一些地方媒体所依赖使用的“牺牲小我成为就大我”模式，不仅难以对民众产生正面激励作用，反而招致“冷血无情”的指责。
Among the demands of public opinion to promote positive energy in the fight against the epidemic, the "sacrifice of ego into self" model relied upon by some local media has not only proved difficult to have a positive motivational effect on the population, but has attracted "cold-blooded" accusations.
例如，「湖北日报」的一篇《有召必回！宜昌市医务人员徒步七十里返院转斗》遭到广泛批评。
For example, a Hubei Daily article called back! Yichang City medical staff on foot 70 miles back to the hospital has been widely criticized.
微博大V「阑夕」如此评论道：“召回医务人员但不给安排车辆，让人徒步35公里走到医院，还挺得意于这种宣传，这就是湖北的文宣作风。
"To recall medical staff without arranging vehicles and to have people walk 35 kilometers to the hospital," commented Wei Boda V, "this is Hubei's style of propaganda.
”值得注意的是，作为中央广播电视总台在新媒体领域的尝试标杆，「央视频」从1月27日起开始直播雷神山和火神山两座重要医院的建设情况（《为什么79万人深夜看「直播造医院」》），引发了年轻人的网络围观和讨论，为困在家中无聊而热心的中国年轻人提供了窗口。
Remarkably, as a benchmark for CCTV's efforts in the field of new media, "Central Video" has been broadcasting live the construction of two major hospitals, Raytheon Mountain and Mount Fire (Why 790,000 people watch "Live Hospitals" late at night) since 27 January, triggering an online round-up and discussion among young people and providing a window for bored and enthusiastic young Chinese at home.
“人”在“第二舆论场”中，「财新」、「三联生活周刊」、「中国青年报」等公共媒体凭借自己的采编资质和前线报道，保持了对整体舆论的强劲影响，而市场化媒体也在积极参与到疫情报道之中，试图覆盖此次重大疫情对于社会经济中更多领域的影响。
"People" in the "Second Opinion Field," "Caixin," "Three Lives Weekly", "China Youth Daily" and other public media with their own editorial qualifications and front-line coverage, while the market-oriented media are actively participating in the coverage of the epidemic, trying to cover the impact of the major epidemic on more social and economic areas.
整体而看，“第二舆论场”的特点在于，更多地保持了对于灾难之中单个中国人的关注，将人置于关注序列首位，有着明显的人道主义视角。
Taken as a whole, the "second opinion field" is characterized by a more sustained focus on individual Chinese in the midst of disasters, placing people at the top of the list of concerns, and with a clear humanitarian perspective.
在此过程中，抓住机会继续坚持对疫情权责的追问和还原。
In this process, seize the opportunity to continue to insist on the rights and responsibilities of the epidemic and restore.
「财新」在《肺炎日记|1月25日：抗疫全国总动员，物资困境如何解决？》提到，在“全国总动员令”发出后，自上而下的协调体系能否高效落实，解决物资调配难题，遏制疫情蔓延局势，还有待时间检验。
"Finance" in "Pneumonia Diary & # # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
三联最大化的利用了自己的话语空间，拉开视角的宽度以展开工作。
Tri-link maximizes the use of their own discourse space, open the width of the perspective to work.
1月27日，在一篇《上海市医疗救治专家组组长：武汉很困难，其他输入病例的城市将面临更大挑战》里，通过对医疗专家的采访，在正面报道疫情的同时，对疾病管控体制进行反思。
In an interview with a medical expert, the head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group said Wuhan is a difficult city and other cities with imported cases will face even greater challenges.
中国疾控中心1月27日发布消息称，在武汉华南海鲜市场检出大量新型冠状病毒。
A large number of new coronavirus have been detected in the south China seafood market in Wuhan, China, the CDC reported on January 27.
「中国经营报」在这天晚上发布的《独家|重回武汉肺炎起点：卖野味的华南市场老板是谁？》里，重新把关注点对准几乎被舆论场遗忘的华南海鲜市场。
At the start of Running Back to Wuhan Pneumonia: Who's the boss of South China's venison market?, China Business Daily released that evening, refocused on the near-forgotten South China seafood market.
这篇价值极高的调查报道摆脱了对野味交易的道德谴责思维，试图寻找滋生野味市场的“寻租”温床。
The high-value investigative report moves away from the moral condemnation of the game trade and tries to find "rent-seeking" hotbeds in the game market.
通过追溯市场背后的华南集团，以及其执掌者余祝生和赵红的政治商业轨迹，文章指出了野生动物售卖牵连着的权力关系，其中包括关于野味的行政许可潜规则和暧昧的政商关系。
By tracing the political business trajectories of South China behind the market, as well as those of its handlers, Yu Zhu-sheng and Zhao Hong, the article points to the power relationships involved in wildlife sales, including administrative licensing and ambiguous business relationships.
据文中的记述，1月1日记者前往华南集团，采访遇到当地宣传部人员阻拦。
According to the article, January 1 reporters to the South China Group, the interview encountered local propaganda staff blocked.
「北青深一度」找到在去年12月下旬爆出“华南水果海鲜市场确诊了7例SARS”消息的医生，在《受训诫的武汉医生：11天后被病人传染住进隔离病房，之前群内言论被断章取义| 深度对话》里，读者看到第一个发出公共健康警示的医生日后的生活。
The doctor who blasted "seven SARS cases confirmed by the South China fruit and seafood market" in late December saw the first public health alert doctor's life in The Trained Wuhan Doctor: 11 days later when a patient was admitted to the isolation ward and the group's words were taken out of context and out of context
中国青年报旗下的「冰点周刊」在1月28日发表《钟南山发话前，武汉这位医生向附近学校发出疫情警报》，本文主人公是武汉市第五医院消化内科吕小红主任，她在1月20日最高级别动员到来之前，并借自己的职业使命感，向附近学校高中的校长发去短信，建议给原计划补课的高三学生放假。
Before the publication of Zhong Nan Shan by the China Youth Daily on January 28, the doctor in Wuhan issued an epidemic alert to nearby schools. The main character is Lu Xiaohong, director of digestive medicine at Wuhan Fifth Hospital.
因为议题设置能力和社会公信力，公共媒体在特殊时期的另一种有益尝试是，将自己变为公共事务的参与者。
Another useful attempt by the public media at a particular time is to become a participant in public affairs because of its subject-setting capacity and public credibility.
在《武汉医疗物资之困：我们能做什么？》中，「三联生活周刊」宣布将参与协调捐赠信息，在官方微博上开通的#三联在行动#话题下，用户可以进行资源匹配。
In "Wuhan Medical Material Difficulty: What Can We Do?," the magazine announced that it would co-ordinate donation information and that the # 3 link on the official microblog would allow users to match resources under the action # topic.
进行公共性的追问时，公共媒体和市场媒体还在继续以更加全景地、平视普通人的视角讲述疫区故事，在这些报道里，我们能看到关于疫情的另一种叙事和温暖的人文主义论调，也看到了这场危机大背景下的一个个普通的武汉人。
The public inquiry comes as the public and market media continue to tell stories about the epidemic from a more holistic, even-sighted perspective, in which we see an alternative narrative and warm humanistic arguments about the epidemic, as well as ordinary Wuhan people in the wider context of the crisis.
「人物」在1月26日发表了《疾病袭城，武汉的医生们正在经历些什么？》，不同于「湖北日报」的英雄样板，文章谈到医生面临医疗物资短缺和感染可能时的惶恐，其中一个细节是，除夕夜里两点，一位医生没有睡觉，发了这半年里唯一一条不是关于女儿的朋友圈，这是一条物资的求助。
"What are Wuhan doctors going through?," published on January 26, is different from Hubei Daily's heroic model. One of the details is that at two o'clock on New Year's Eve, a doctor did not sleep.
「红星新闻」在1月28日发表了《从“离城”到“恐鄂”，一位鄂A牌照车主的跨省漂流》，讲述了一名在武汉关闭离汉通道之后，一名武汉车主在中国自驾游时间遇到的种种刁难、困境和帮助。
"From Leaving the City" to "Terror in Hubei," a cross-provincial driftward with an E-E license plate, the "Red Star News" on January 28 describes the difficulties, difficulties and assistance that a Wuhan car owner encountered while driving in China after Wuhan closed the Han tunnel.
这篇文章将视角面向五百万在春节离开武汉的普通人。
This article will look at the five million people who left Wuhan during the Spring Festival.
类似关注点的还有「澎湃新闻」在1月28日发表的《“酒店听说我是武汉人，立刻报了警”》等。
A similar concern is "surging news" published on January 28, "the hotel heard that I am Wuhan people, immediately reported to the police" and so on.
这些媒体在报道中揭露道，随着各地开展信息排查，部分自武汉返乡人员发现自己详细的个人信息在网上流传开来，他们很多人被陌生人通过电话、微信骚扰、谩骂后才知信息被泄露。
Wuhan returnees, some of whom found their personal details circulated online as a result of local scans, were told by the media in a report. Many were harassed and verbally abused by strangers.
实际上，在这段时间里，社交媒介上民众的情绪面貌的复杂性有所扩大并继续分裂。
Indeed, during this period, the emotional profile of the public on social media has grown in complexity and continues to fragment.
在很多事情上，社交媒体的大众噪音已经脱离早期的“问责”和“科普”等，逐渐脱离“第二舆论场”，回到这些年一直习惯的立场站队、情绪渲染与“互怼”的路径上。
In many cases, the mass noise of social media has moved away from earlier "accountability" and "popular science," away from the "second world of opinion," and back toward the positions, emotions, and "images" to which they have been accustomed over the years.
这是一件非常令人遗憾的事。
This is a matter of great regret.
特别是随着之前武汉人逃离武汉等新闻的渲染，一部分极端的网络声音将矛头对准了付出巨大牺牲的武汉市民。
Especially with the Wuhan people fled Wuhan before the rendering of news, some of the extreme voice of the network will be directed against the sacrifice of Wuhan city residents.
微博上关于日本名古屋机场所发生的上海籍乘客和武汉籍乘客争执的事件，产生众多极端和自私的言论。
The incident on Weibo about the dispute between Shanghai and Wuhan passengers at Nagoya airport in Japan produced many extreme and selfish remarks.
针对各地基层民众和组织如何采取强硬和一刀切的隔离措施以自保，相比前一篇提到的互联网幽默风格与网红式的传播特点，这一阶段中“别人家领导”的色彩变弱，在一些意见领袖的带动下，出现了对于极端情绪和不合理手段的舆论纠偏。
In contrast to the previous post, where the Internet's humorous style and red-screen style of communication have weakened the color of "other family leaders," public opinion has shifted to extreme emotions and irrational tactics, led by opinion leaders.
这样的舆论环境也遭受到各类媒体的批评。
This environment of public opinion has also been criticized by various media.
例如，「南方都市报」在《遏制疫情蔓延，也要警惕污名和歧视武汉人、湖北人》指出，大众的担忧出现了“扩大化”、“污名化”的情况：“我们也要防止隐私泄露、污名病人、歧视武汉人等“次生灾害”；我们要隔离病毒，而不是隔离同胞。
For example, the Southern Metropolis Daily, in Combating the Spread of the Epidemic, also Beware of Stigma and Discrimination against Wuhan and Hubei People, notes that there has been a "widening" and "stigmatizing" public concern: "We also want to prevent the disclosure of privacy, stigmatization, discrimination against Wuhan people and other" secondary disasters.
”「人民日报」发表《转发呼吁！“抗疫”不能成为“恐鄂”！》，在将情绪的扩散归结于谣言扩散的同时，呼吁大众：“这场阻击战中，湖北人是同胞也是同袍！我们唯一、共同的敌人只有病毒！”更多的武汉当地人在社交媒体现身说法，呼吁大家理性看待疫情和疫区。
"People's Daily" issued "Forwarding Appeal!" "Anti-epidemic" can not become "Epidemic!" while attributing the spread of emotions to rumors spread, calling on the masses: "Hubei people are compatriots in the same robes! Our only common enemy is virus!"
UP主「林晨同学」实拍武汉的vlog开始在微博、虎扑等多个社区传播，他在视频里走上武汉街头，为大家展示武汉的现状：“大家都想做对的事情，她依然是一千万人的家。
In this video, Wu Chen, a student of the University of Wuhan, starts to spread in Weibo, Tiger Leap and other communities. He shows the situation in Wuhan: "Everyone wants to do the right thing, she is still the home of 10 million people.
”在1月27日，一场悲剧暂时打断了大家对于疫情的关注，美国著名篮球运动员科比·布莱恩特因空难而离世，引发中国社交媒体的缅怀和追忆，让中国人的悲伤在特殊的时节有了多重层次。
On January 27, a tragedy briefly interrupted concerns about the outbreak, prompting Chinese social media to mourn and recall Bryant's death in an air crash, giving the Chinese a multi-tiered sense of sadness at a particular time.
「小声比比」的发言可以作为一种代表：“我们似乎是在得到某种提醒：我自己所认为的，自己构建出的稳定的、牢不可摧的生活，在生活的随机性面前，就像沙堡一样，潮水一来就灰飞烟灭。
"We seem to be getting some sort of reminder that I think I'm building a stable, indestructible life, like a sandcastle, in the face of randomness of life, when the tide comes, it goes out in smoke."
”也有人在这多层次的悲伤中寻找着多层次的力量。
There are also those who seek multiple levels of strength in the midst of this multilayered grief.
张佳玮撰写了《纪念｜科比，他是篮球历史最偏执、最坚韧、最勤奋的人》：“科比·布莱恩特是篮球史上最极端的球员，没有之一：最偏执、最坚韧、最倔强、最好强、最勤奋，可以打得最狡猾（只要他乐意），但经常最执拗。
Zhang Jiawei wrote commemorating the most paranoid, tenacious and hardworking man in basketball history: "Kobe Bryant is one of the most extreme basketball players of all time: the most paranoid, tough, stubborn, best, most diligent, and can play the most sly (if he likes), but often the most obstinate.
”在当天晚上，武汉人不自觉地却又统一一致通过种种社交媒体的联系和发起，相约一个时间共同打开自己家的窗户，高呼“武汉加油”，让整个城市的夜晚都回响在这样加油声之中。
That night, Wuhan people involuntarily but unanimously through a variety of social media contacts and initiations, together a time to open their own windows, shouted "Wuhan refueling," so that the whole city night echoed in the roaring sound.
1月28日，钟南山接受了新华社的专访，他虽然表示疫情在未来1周或者10天左右达到高峰，但他依然相信不会大规模增加。
In an interview with Xinhua on January 28, Zhong Nan-shan said he was confident there would be no major increase in the number of cases, although he said the epidemic would peak in the next week or so.
在结束时，他也谈到了昨晚的“武汉加油”，“劲头上来了，很多东西都能够解决，全国帮忙，武汉是能够过关的。
In the end, he also talked about last night's "Wuhan refueling," "momentum up, a lot of things can be resolved, the national help, Wuhan is able to pass.
”人类需要人类。
"Man needs men.
end©消费新声原创内容 转载请联系授权【爆料或寻求报道】加微信号：Suburb001 【商务合作】加微信号：sansheng_kefu。
Business cooperation microsignal: sansheng _ kefu (business co-operation): micro-signaling: sansheng _ kefu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗疫时期的中国舆论场②：从局面到「人」。
Chinese public opinion field in the period of fighting epidemic: from situation to person.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "消费新声";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗疫时期的中国舆论场②：从局面到「人」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Chinese public opinion at the time of the epidemic: from situation to "person";;
var msg_desc = "以一种被凝视的方式。
var msg _ desc = & quot; in a way that's been stared at.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '为什么79万人深夜看「直播造医院」',。
Why did 790,000 people watch Live Hospital at night?
subject_name: '新商业情报NBT',。
Subject _ name: & apos; New business intelligence NBT & apos;;
var title ="消费新声";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
