我在医护出行互助群的72小时 | 武汉人①。
At least 72 hours of service at the Medical Travel Service.
黎佳瑜。
Li Jiayu.
消费新声                      。
Consumption news.
消费新声。
Consumption news.
『消费新声』由三声核心内容团队创办，专注于从商业角度解读年轻人在消费和生活领域的更新升级，为泛消费领域的从业者和投资者提供富有预见性、启发性的深度原创报道。
Founded by the Three Core Group, the Consumer Sounds focuses on understanding young people's life and consumption from a business perspective, providing predictable, inspirational, in-depth, original coverage for practitioners and investors in the broader consumer world.
。
.
关注并星标消费新声不错过泛消费任何最新动态过去几天里，我目睹了这些武汉人用近乎燃烧自我的方式集结到一起，也和他们一起对抗着朝令夕改的动荡与外部支撑的缺失，而囿于有限的个人力量，我们最终不得不选择向现实妥协。
Over the past few days, I have witnessed these Wuhan people coming together in a near-self-sustaining way, fighting against the vagaries of the day and the lack of external support, and constrained by limited personal power, we have finally had to compromise with reality.
作者 | 黎佳瑜编辑 | 罗立璇没有谁会比武汉人更想拯救这座城市。
Rao Lixuan has never wanted to save the city more than Wuhan people did.
离汉通道被关闭以后，他们迅速地行动了起来，用个人的视角与力量，去讲述武汉的遭遇，去试着拯救这座身陷囹圄的孤城。
When the Han Channel was closed, they moved quickly, using their personal perspective and strength, to tell the story of Wuhan, to try to save the imprisoned city.
爱心车主是最早被媒体关注的群体之一。
Loving car owners were one of the first groups to receive media attention.
他们的出现，原本是为了解决仓促“封城”以后医护人员出行困难的问题，在配套方案出台以前，熬过这个窗口期。
Their appearance was originally to solve the problem of medical staff travel difficulties after the hasty "closure," before the introduction of supporting programmes, through this window period.
如果不是他们，许多奋战在一线的医护人员，要么回不了家，要么只能依靠步行或共享单车。
Without them, many frontline health-care workers would either not be able to return home or would have to walk or share their bicycles.
我加入医护出行互助群时，原本只是想要寻找采访对象。
When I joined the health-care travel group, I was just looking for people to interview.
但作为一个远离一线的普通人，我又很想为这些善良的人们做点什么。
But as an ordinary person away from the front line, I really want to do something for these kind people.
于是我真正地成为了一名志愿者，和大家一起用笨方法搭起一座松松垮垮的“桥梁”，让医护人员得以通过一种临时的方式赴往前线。
So I really became a volunteer, building a flabby "bridge" with the rest of us in a clumsy way, allowing medical staff to go to the front in a temporary way.
那时的武汉有许多这样的医护出行互助组织，他们的善意值得钦佩，但不应该被消耗。
Wuhan at the time had many of these health care travel mutual aid organizations, their goodwill is admirable, but should not be consumed.
过去几天里，我目睹了这些武汉人用近乎燃烧自我的方式集结到一起，也和他们一起对抗着朝令夕改的动荡与外部支撑的缺失，而囿于有限的个人力量，我们最终不得不选择向现实妥协。
Over the past few days, I have witnessed these Wuhan people coming together in a near-self-combustion fashion, and confronting with them the vagaries of the day and the absence of external support, and finally having to compromise with reality because of limited personal power.
我记录并不是为了歌颂，因为在很多时候，英雄本不必成为英雄。
I don't record it to celebrate, because most of the time, heroes don't have to be heroes.
搭桥比起显然不够即时的疫情通报，武汉的“封城”迅速得让人心惊。
The "closure" of Wuhan is fast spooking people, compared to the apparently short notice of the outbreak.
武汉市长周先旺在接受采访时表示，在一些强硬措施上，武汉市“很果断”。
In an interview, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said the city was "decisive" on some tough measures.
但他没有提及，迫于疫情的仓促“封城”，一度让这座千万级人口的城市陷入很多意想不到的麻烦。
But he did not mention that the rush to "close the city" by the epidemic once left the city of tens of millions of people in many unexpected troubles.
市内公共交通停运，医院从床位、人手到物资全线匮乏，口罩和酒精等防护用品千金难求，连肉类蔬菜这些维系日常生活的物品供给都出现了困难。
The city's public transport is out of commission, hospitals are short of beds, manpower and supplies, and supplies of respirators and alcohol are hard to come by. Meat and vegetables, the daily necessities of life, are hard to come by.
尽管包括阿里、美团和滴滴在内的商业力量迅速宣布介入，但还是不能填补政府配套措施的失位。
Despite rapid announcements of intervention by business forces, including Ali, the US Mission, and Droplets, they have failed to fill the gap in government support measures.
医护人员的出行问题是第一个爆发的矛盾。
Travel problems of medical staff were the first to erupt.
这些站在全国抗疫战场最前线的医护人员，有许多人平时依靠公共交通上班，当天只能骑共享单车或步行抵达医院。
Many of these health workers, who are at the forefront of the battle against the disease, usually commute to work, sharing bikes or walking to hospitals on that day.
这种匪夷所思的极端情况激怒了许多人，也成了武汉人自救的助燃剂。
This kind of unthinkable extreme situation infuriated many people, also became Wuhan people self-help fuel.
不少人开始在微博等平台上发起组建爱心车队的倡议，Reaka便是其中之一。
Reaka is one of the many initiatives that have been launched on platforms such as Weibo to build a team of heart-throats.
她本就是一名医生，由于不在一线科室，这几天一直在家等安排。
She was already a doctor and had been waiting at home for several days because she was not in the front-line department.
23日凌晨，看到关闭离汉通道消息发布以后，她焦虑得睡不着觉，“如果医护人员不能到岗，或者不能准时，那病人谁治？”▲微博上的医护人员出行互助群二维码于是，Reaka也建立了一个用于医护出行互助的QQ群。
In the early morning hours of the 23rd, seeing the news of the closure of the Han Channel, she was too worried to sleep. "If paramedics cannot be on duty or on time, who will?"
她只在朋友圈和几个群里发了二维码，没想到加群的人越来越多。
She only in the circle of friends and a few groups issued two-dimensional code, did not expect more and more people.
她想，应该是有不少人自发帮忙做宣传，“这也侧面说明需求真的很大。
She thought, there should be a lot of spontaneous help to do propaganda, "this also shows that the demand is really large.
”我是在除夕那天加入这个医护出行互助群的。
"I joined the health-care group on New Year's Eve.
起初，我只是想通过这些QQ群和微信群接触和采访一些武汉市民。
At first, I just want to contact and interview some Wuhan city residents through these QQ groups and micro-carriers.
但当Reaka一遍又一遍地刷消息征集志愿者的时候，我忍不住想，有什么事情是不在一线的自己也能做到的。
But when Reaka brushed the message over and over for volunteers, I couldn't help thinking that there was something out there that I could do.
跟Reaka简单交流后，我成为了群管理员，被拉进了群里。
After a brief conversation with Reaka, I became a group manager and was dragged into the group.
当时在群里的8位管理员，都是Reaka临时在群里找的。
The eight rangers in the group at the time were all temporarily found by Reaka in the group.
我们要做的事情，就是在医护和车主（当然，也有像我这样的“无关人员”）不断涌入时，反复提醒他们修改备注，教他们如何发布出行需求和“接单”。
All we have to do is constantly remind the paramedics and car owners (and, of course, "extraneous people" like me) to revise their notes and teach them how to post travel requirements and "pick-up orders."
那是一个颇为兵荒马乱的开场。
It was a rather unruly beginning.
加群申请不断出现，Reaka不得不临时充值了QQ年度会员，将QQ群的成员上限升至2000人。
Add group application appears ceaselessly, Reaka had to fill QQ annual member temporarily, raise the member limit of QQ group to 2000 person.
首先需要面对的是真实性的问题。
The first thing to face is the question of authenticity.
面对响个不停的加群申请，我们来不及、也没有能力对他们做身份和资质审核，只能在群里发公告提醒车主和医护在对接时提前互相出示身份证明。
In the face of endless applications, we do not have enough time and ability to do identity and qualification audit, can only issue a group notice to remind car owners and medical care to show each other identity cards in advance.
现在看来，这的确存在一定的风险——在这样的特殊时期，但凡有一点恶意掺杂其中，都可能伤害这些奔波在一线的人们。
It does seem that there is a certain amount of risk - at a particular time like this, but even a whiff of malice can hurt those on the ground.
一开始，我们用在线文档统计出行需求，但这种留言板一般的原始做法效率太低。
Initially, we used online documentation to measure travel requirements, but the primitive, message board-like approach was too inefficient.
后来，我们一度改用在线Excel表格，让医护和车主自行填写出行需求或空闲时段，但这似乎也不是个好办法。
Later, we switched to online Excel forms, allowing health care and car owners to fill in their own travel needs or free time, but that didn't seem like a good idea either.
对话框里依旧乱哄哄的，人数还在不断增加，改用新方法后不久，又有人提出要分开管理车主和医护，由管理员统一收发消息。
Dialogues are still tumultuous, numbers are still growing, and soon after the new approach was adopted, it was suggested that owners and medical staff should be managed separately and that messages should be sent and received centrally by administrators.
为此，大家还吵了一架。
There was also a fight.
一部分人觉得，让他们自行匹配的效率太低，另一部分人则认为，分开管理势必增加现有的工作量。
Some feel that it is too inefficient for them to match themselves, while others argue that separate management necessarily adds to the existing workload.
一种莫名的紧张感紧咬在身后。
An inexplicable tenseness clung to his back.
我们都担心会因为方法的反复修改而耽误医护人员的出行，最后以投票的方式决定，将车主和医护引流到两个QQ群里，由管理员充当信息中转站。
We all feared delays in the travel of health-care workers as a result of repeated modifications to the methodology, and decided to vote to divert the owners and medical staff to two QQ groups, with the administrator acting as a clearing house for information.
角角便是在这个时候因为踊跃发言而逐渐担当起“指挥者”的角色。
It was at this time that the "conductor" became more and more popular.
这个武汉姑娘在北京上大学，最近最担心的事情就是学校延期开学，自己还能不能按时毕业。
The Wuhan girl, who attended a university in Beijing, recently was worried about the delay in starting school and whether she could graduate on time.
在她的指挥下，几个人分工开始建群引流和对接信息。
Under her command, several people began to work on group drainage and docking information.
那天是除夕，我没能一直在线。
It was New Year's Eve and I wasn't always online.
下午五点，吃完年夜饭的我再次上线，惊讶地发现一套完整的流程已经开始跑了起来。
At 5 p. m., after dinner, I went online again and was surprised to find that a complete set of procedures had already started to run.
2000人的医护群已经满员，另外新建了500人的车主群。
The 2,000-person health-care group is fully staffed, and a new 500-person vehicle fleet has been established.
医护将出行需求私聊发给一位管理员，管理员整理、编号再转发到车主群。
Travel needs are sent to an administrator, who organizes and numbers them and forwards them to the owner group.
每隔一段时间，有人负责将遗留在聊天记录里的单子按照地区和时间整理成表格，再上传至QQ群。
At regular intervals, someone is responsible for tabulating the list left in the chat records by region and time, and uploading it to QQ groups.
我上线时，群里最新的单子编号是132，也就是说，我们已经至少帮132位医护人员传递了出行需求。
When I went online, the latest list number in the group was 132, meaning we had already delivered travel requests to at least 132 health-care workers.
除了收发信息，管理员们还要定时提醒车主们注意安全，做好戴口罩、勤消毒等防护措施。
In addition to sending and receiving information, managers also need to remind owners to pay attention to safety, good wearing masks, frequent disinfection and other protective measures.
短短一个下午，这些因共同的目标而走到一起的陌生人，已经组成了一支井然有序的出行服务队伍，跑出了一套可以流水线、系统化操作的运作模式。
In just one afternoon, the strangers, united by a common purpose, have formed an orderly travel service team and run out of a streamlined, systematized mode of operation.
大家一起用笨方法搭起了人工的“医护出行平台”。
Together, they built artificial "health-care travel platforms" in a clumsy way.
当然，不是每个单子都会有车主认领，也有人等了半天，最后决定自己骑共享单车上下班。
Of course, not every list will be claimed by the owner, and some people have been waiting for half a day, finally decided to ride their own bike to work.
但你绝不会因此而责备车主们，无论有多少人在同时行动，个人的力量始终是有限的。
But you will never blame the owner for this, no matter how many people are at the same time, the power of the individual is always limited.
他们拼尽全力，也只能搭起一座座松松垮垮的“桥梁”。
With all their might, they could only build flimsy "bridges."
但在那个时刻，武汉人需要这些桥梁。
But at that moment, Wuhan people needed these bridges.
身处风暴中心的他们，“想做点什么”的心情只会比我这样的“局外人”更加强烈。
At the center of the storm, they felt "want to do something" only more than "outsiders" like me.
他们也需要从彼此身上获得更大的勇气，去对这场抗席卷武汉的风暴，去证明这座城市还没有被放弃。
They also need to gain more courage from each other to prove that the city has not been abandoned in the storm that swept Wuhan.
站在“桥梁”中间的我，第一次离开媒体和社交网络的转述，直面来自疫区一线人员的情绪。
Standing in the middle of the "bridge," I left the media and social network for the first time relayed, face-to-face from the infected area of the frontline emotions.
那天晚上，忙碌的间隙，陆续有医护人员发消息说，联系到司机了，谢谢你们，祝新年快乐。
That night, busy intermission, a succession of medical personnel sent a message, contact the driver, thank you, wish a happy New Year.
一位医护人员反复和我说谢谢，她说自己现在最担心的不是不能下班，而是不能按时上班。
One paramedic repeatedly thanked me, saying that her biggest worry was not that she couldn't get off work, but that she couldn't get to work on time.
这样的鲜活情绪还有很多，它们藏在数量庞大的出行需求里，像大年夜馈赠给我们的小彩蛋。
There are many such lively emotions, hidden in a large number of travel needs, like large gifts to us small eggs.
同一时刻，我所在的粤北小镇维持着一片平静。
At the same time, my small town of northern Guangdong was calm.
零点一过，外面响起了迎春接福的鞭炮声，而另一边，QQ提示音还在接连不断地响起，我和管理员们开始分工做收尾工作，一些人处理新的单子，一些人整理归档未被认领的旧单。
After midnight, the sound of firecrackers sounded outside, and on the other side, QQ prompts continued to ring, managers and I began to do the finishing work, some people deal with new lists, some people file unclaimed old ones.
我曾一度迷失在远处的呼救与近处的笑声中。
Once I was lost in the distance in the call for help and near laughter.
但当我从旁观者变成了参与者，在职业诉求以外，以一个普通人的身份找到了自己能做到的事情，我似乎稍微地能理解这些车主与志愿者们选择奔走的执念。
But when I went from being an onlooker to being a participant, finding something I could do as an ordinary person, beyond the demands of my career, I seemed to understand a little bit the way the owners and volunteers chose to go.
那天夜里，武汉市发布了《武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部通告（第8号)》（下称“8号令”），要在全市紧急征集6000台出租车，满足居民的出行需求。
That night, Wuhan issued the "Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command Notice No. 8" (hereinafter referred to as "Order 8"), the urgent collection of 6,000 taxis throughout the city to meet residents' travel needs.
有人把这个消息转到了群里，我们都觉得，这是一个很好的开端，至少说明“封城”后的配套已经开始建立。
The news was passed on to the group and we all felt that it was a good start, at least to show that the post-closure package had already begun.
“新年快乐！希望明天是个好日子。
Happy New Year! Hope tomorrow is a good day.
”零点的到来让除夕终于有了些许存在感，管理员苍穹说完，大家开始互道新年快乐。
New Year's Eve finally got a little bit of a sense of existence, the manager said, everyone began to say happy New Year.
所有人都在想，明天会是一个新的开始。
Everyone was thinking that tomorrow would be a new beginning.
众志然而，突如其来的变故差点改写了出行互助群的命运。
However, the sudden changes almost changed the fate of the travel mutual help group.
1月25日下午，武汉市发布《武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部通告（第9号）》（下称“9号令”）称，为了控制流动人员引发的传染风险，从26日0时起，除了经许可的车辆，中心城区区域实行机动车管制。
In the afternoon of January 25, Wuhan issued the Notice of Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command (No. 9), which states that, in order to control the risk of infection caused by itinerant personnel, motor vehicle control will be implemented in central urban areas, except for licensed vehicles, starting from 0000 hours on January 26.
这意味着，零点以后，私家车辆未经许可不得在城区行驶。
This means that private vehicles are not allowed to drive in urban areas without permission after midnight.
因而，这些爱心车主们的出行服务就要被强行中止，大批医护出行互助群将迎来被解散的命运。
As a result, the travel service of these loving drivers will be forced to stop, a large number of medical travel mutual help groups will be disbanded.
这让我们都有些措手不及。
It took us all by surprise.
当时，医护人员的二群刚刚建立，他们的出行需求源源不断地涌入聊天框，途径流畅运转的互助体系，被送到车主的手中。
At that time, the second group of medical personnel has just been established, their travel needs continue to pour into the chat box, a smooth-running mutual assistance system, was sent to the owners.
车主群里也有许多人在问，真的不能跑了吗？明天已经约满了，这下要怎么办？更大的问题在于，除了此前8号令提及的6000台出租车，武汉并没有其余出行配套的更新，而平均下来每个社区3到5台出租车的配给量也远远不够。
A lot of people in the group are asking, can't they really run? Tomorrow is full, what will happen next? The bigger problem is that Wuhan does not have the other set of trips except for the 6,000 taxis mentioned in the previous 8, and the average allocation of three to five taxis per community is far from enough.
“武汉人都在想办法自救，政府怎么这个样子？”许多人意识到了问题所在，群里开始有车主发泄自己的愤怒。
"Wuhan people are trying to help themselves, how the government like this?" Many people are aware of the problem, the group began to have owners vent their anger.
负责车主群的管理员安慰车主时，连自己都有些不确定：“应该会有措施，不然这也太坑了。
The caretaker of the owner group comforted the owner, not even sure: "There should be something to do, or it's too deep."
”“今天可能是最后一天了，冲！”同一时刻，角角在管理员的讨论组里说。
"Today may be the last day, go!" said the corner from the administrator's discussion group at the same time.
苍穹回复道：“那就核实一下，能功成身退就最好了。
"The sky replied," Check it out. It would be best to retire.
”其实从一开始，我们就知道，这种爱心接力的方式远不能真正地解决医护人员的出行。
In fact, we knew from the start that this kind of relay of love was far from being a real solution to the travel of medical staff.
这只是在非常时期，尽可能地为他们撑起一个过渡期罢了。
It is only in times of emergency, to sustain them for as long as possible a transitional period.
而在连轴转的第二天，包括我在内的几个管理员已开始有些疲惫，也在反思互助群的人身安全、健康防疫等潜在风险。
On the second day of the rotation, several administrators, including me, began to feel a little tired, reflecting on the safety of mutual help groups, health and immunization potential risks.
经过短暂讨论，角角编辑了新的公告，恳请大家“站好最后一班岗”。
After a brief discussion, corner edited a new announcement, implore everyone to "stand on the last post."
她在公告里写道：“大家从今晚零时起在家休息，做到尽量不出门不添乱，这是为我们的城市出一份力。
"We're going to stay at home from 0 this evening and try not to go out and do everything possible to help our city," she said in a statement.
相信明日就会有便于一线人员出行的配套设施。
I believe that tomorrow there will be a convenient front-line staff travel facilities.
”尽管武汉政府在过去几天里表现出了相当迟滞的应急能力，9号令也一度给大家带来挫败感，但这些冲在“自救”第一线的武汉人中，仍有许多人相信政府会想办法解决后续的问题。
While the Wuhan government has shown considerable tardiness in responding to emergencies over the past few days, and has been a source of frustration, many among the Wuhan people who rushed to the front line of "self-help" believe that the government will figure out how to solve the follow-up problems.
不过在那时候，对于我们这些能力有限的普通人来说，除了相信，或许没有第二个选项了。
But then, for those of us with limited abilities, there may not be a second option but to believe.
当来自各界的正向信号帮助武汉人重建信心，我们也看到了一些转机。
As positive signals from all walks of life help Wuhan people rebuild their confidence, we also see some signs of improvement.
复制“小汤山”模式的火神山、雷神山医院开始建设，各大媒体也滚动播报着来自商业公司的物资与资金援助，以及数百名军医、多支医疗救援队赶往武汉的消息。
"Xiaotangshan" mode of replication of the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan Hospital began to build, major media also rolling broadcast from commercial companies and financial assistance, as well as hundreds of military doctors, many medical rescue teams to Wuhan news.
在无奈与希望的交织中，“站好最后一班岗”成了所有人眼前最具象的目标。
In the interweave of helplessness and hope, "to stand on the last post" has become everyone's most tangible goal.
发布新公告后，管理员们做了几手准备。
After the new announcement, the administrators made several preparations.
大部队继续留守在三个群里，收集与分发医护出行需求，向他们强调出行时间要截至9号令生效的0点前。
The larger forces remained in three groups to collect and distribute medical travel needs, stressing that travel time should be by 0 p.m., when the order came into effect.
为了求证8号令中的社区出行服务是否覆盖医护人员，我们给武汉市交管局打了一个下午的电话，还跑到微博给“武汉交警”发私信，但都没有得到回复。
In order to find out whether the community travel service included in Order No. 8 covered medical personnel, we telephoned Wuhan Municipal Bureau of Transport and Administration for an afternoon and went to Weibo to send personal letters to Wuhan Traffic Police, but received no reply.
考虑到一些免费的餐饮和住宿援助可以变相解决医护的出行需求，我们一一打电话核实在各个群里广泛流传的相关资源。
Given that some of the free meals and accommodation assistance can be a disguised form of medical travel, we called each other to verify the resources that were circulating in the various clusters.
有来自民间的物资捐助找到互助群里，我们也试着帮对方对接医院、找车主运输。
There are non-governmental material donations to find mutual help groups, we also try to help each other docking hospitals, find the owner of the transport.
那天下午，车主群的氛围空前高涨，车主们除了接单，话也多了起来。
That afternoon, the atmosphere of the car owners unprecedented high, owners in addition to orders, but also more words.
一位汉阳的车主在大家讨论时说：“大家做好防护，完成自己的事情就好，剩下的我们还是不要给政府添乱。
"We should do our best to protect ourselves and finish our own business. We'd better not mess with the government for the rest of the year," said a Hanyang owner during the discussion.
”一些不认可9号令的车主开始自己寻找应对方法。
Some car owners who disapprove of Decree No. 9 are starting to find their own way around it.
有人将问题反映到了红十字会，也有人在群里说，他刚刚给明天早上要接的医护人员打电话，答应按预定时间去接她：“我说如果路上被拦，就把你交给警察叔叔，让他们送你回家。
Someone brought the problem to the Red Cross, others in the group said that he had just called the paramedics who were going to pick her up in the morning and promised to pick her up at the scheduled time: "I said if you were stopped on the way, I would give you over to the police uncle to take you home.
”傍晚，一些消息开始在各个出行互助群里传播。
In the evening, news began to circulate among the various mutual aid groups.
一张截图显示，经过咨询市交管局，医护人员在26日0点后可以行车，但需随身携带并及时出示胸牌。
A screenshot showed that after consulting the city's transport authorities, medical staff can drive after 0 pm on the 26th, but should take it with them and show their badges in time.
有管理员得到消息说，省指挥部与市指挥部还在沟通行车车辆的界定问题。
Administrators have received information that the provincial command and city command are also communicating the definition of vehicles.
后来，又有车主在群里说，医院可以为接送医护人员的车辆开具出行证明，还将证明的样本也发到了群里。
Later, the owner of the car in the group said the hospital could issue travel certificates for the vehicles carrying the paramedics, and samples of the certificates were also distributed to the group.
让我们感到难办的是，上述种种说法没有一个出现在官方的任何消息渠道里。
To our consternation, none of these claims appear in any official news channels.
大家只能通过人际关系网络，找相关机构的工作人员艰难求证。
We can only through human relations network, find the staff of the relevant organizations to find difficult evidence.
而在有确切消息以前，面对车主的疑问，我们也不知道该如何回答。
And we don't know how to answer the owner's questions until we have a definite message.
当晚七点半，我们终于等来了官方消息：26日0点后，市公安交管部门将对禁止通行的车辆通告车主，对未通告的车辆一律实施放行。
At 7: 30 that evening, we finally waited for the official news: after 0 pm on the 26th, the municipal public security traffic control department will notify the owner of the prohibited vehicles and release all unannounced vehicles.
这相当于废止了仅发布不到四个小时的“9号令”。
This amounts to repealing the "9" order, which was issued less than four hours ago.
互助群的危机并没有完全结束：官方公告没有提及更具体的界定标准，我们也无从得知什么才是“禁止通行的车辆”。
The crisis in solidarity groups is not entirely over: the official announcement does not mention more specific criteria for defining what is meant by a "prohibited vehicle."
不过，我们都没来得及细想，因为“晚高峰”开始了——许多医护的出行需求集中在早晚两个时段，他们中有不少人是前往医院上早班，或是通宵值班后等车回家，也有的人只是回家收拾换洗衣物，准备回医院长期“扎营”。
But none of us had time to think about it, because the "late rush" began - many of the travel needs of the medical staff were concentrated in the morning and evening, with many of them going to the hospital for morning shifts or waiting overnight for the bus to return home, or simply coming home to get their laundry ready for a long camping trip.
有人哀叹着还得忙，也有人在庆幸还能跑。
Some people lament that they have to be busy, others are glad to be able to run.
夜里十点多，车主老徐还在路上。
It was past ten in the night and the owner was still on his way.
他在今天接送了八位医生，跑了整整一天，却还有些忐忑，不知道自己的工作量是多还是少。
He picked up eight doctors today, running the whole day, but a little perturbed, not knowing how much or how little he was doing.
下午在二七长江大桥上堵车的时候，他还发了条朋友圈：“医护人员太难了。
During the afternoon traffic jam on the 27 Changjiang Bridge, he also sent out a group of friends: "Health care is too difficult.
”车主“蓝点”和老徐在群里互相打气。
The owner, Blue Dot, and LaoXu cheered each other up in the group.
早些时候，蓝点为了接送医护人员跑得汽车没油了，好不容易找到了加油站，顾不上吃饭，又开始在群里接单，“加满了油，开心。
Earlier, Blue Dot ran out of gas to pick up the paramedics, managed to find a gas station, stopped eating, and began to take orders from the group, "Filled with gas, happy.
”在那个情绪高涨的夜晚，还在路上奔波的绝不止他们两个。
"It was not just the two of them who were on the road on that high-spirited night.
有人把武汉三镇跑了个遍，也有人临近零点了，还在群里吆喝接最后一单就回家睡觉。
Some people run through the town of Wuhan, others near midnight, and still yell in the group to take the last one home to sleep.
Reaka不得不在群里强调：“你们不要这样，请注意身体，不然我们觉得心里很难受，不要累倒了。
Reaka had to stress in the group, "Don't do this. Watch your body, or we'll feel sick and tired.
”来自医护人员的感谢出现在我们的聊天框里，也以更加具象的方式出现在了车主们的面前——他们中有不少人悄悄地在车上留下了口罩、酒精等防护用品，送给搭载他们的车主，后者像发现糖果的小孩，在群里和其他人“炫耀”了起来。
Thanksgivings from paramedics showed up in our chat boxes and showed up in even more picturesque ways - many of them quietly leaving masks, alcohol and other protective gear for their owners, who, like the children who found the candy, "flaunted" with others in the group.
“互相帮助，太感谢他们了。
"Help each other, thank them so much.
”一位车主说。
'said one of the owners.
零点钟声响起，而9号令早已被抛诸脑后。
The clock struck zero, and Order 9 had long since been forgotten.
能容纳500人的车主群已经满员，还有许多人在等待入群申请的通过。
The 500-person car pool is already full, and many more are waiting to get their applications through.
暂停高昂的情绪背后，危机悄然席卷而来。
Behind the pause in high spirits, the crisis crept in.
到了第三天，管理员们的疲态更盛。
On the third day, the caretakers became even more fatigued.
充当信息中转站的我们，需要全天盯着手机屏幕，随时收集与分发消息，还要定期做整理、核实医护与车主提供的其他消息。
As information hubs, we need to keep an eye on the screen, collect and distribute messages at any time, and regularly collate and verify other information provided by health care and car owners.
因为连轴转，我不过是被家里人追着数落几回，而角角忙得只能吃泡面，有管理员还自己开车接单，根本顾不上休息。
Because of the rotation, I was only chased by my family several times, and corner busy only to eat noodles, the administrator of their own driving orders, no matter how much rest.
我们不想停下来，但不知道自己还能坚持多久。
We don't want to stop, but we don't know how long we can last.
好在有几个程序员找到角角，提出要给出行互助群做一款小程序，让医护群的运作完全自动化。
Fortunately, a few programmers have found a corner and have proposed a small program for travel groups to fully automate their operations.
程序员们行动力很强，只用了两天就做出了雏形，但还要完善和等待平台审核，一时半会帮不上忙。
Programmers are very dynamic, in just two days to make the prototype, but still to improve and wait for the platform to review, will not help.
而作为一个临时集结的松散组织，我们的问题远远不止于此。
And as a loosely organized makeshift organization, our problems go far beyond that.
尽管车主们在群里仍然十分热情，但我们知道，屏幕背后的他们在这两天经历了从物资到精神的巨大消耗。
Although the owners were still very enthusiastic in the group, we knew that behind the screen they had experienced a tremendous physical and mental drain over the past two days.
他们没有补贴，连续几天奔波在外，都是成百上千地自掏腰包支付油钱。
They do not subsidize, travel for several days, are hundreds of out of their own pocket to pay for oil.
防护用品也都是自己购买，这些物资消耗得很快，而当时的武汉正在经历疫情的快速扩散，连医院都开始因物资短缺而向社会求援，普通人又能有多少办法？我们也曾参考过一些组织性更强、或是挂靠于专业慈善机构的车队，后者能给车主供应酒精和口罩，要求他们按时消毒，但我们显然不具有这样的能力。
While Wuhan was experiencing a rapid spread of the epidemic, and even hospitals were turning to society for help because of shortages, what could ordinary people do? We also referred to more organized or professional charities that supplied their owners with alcohol and masks and asked them to disinfect them on time, but obviously we did not.
一来车主都是以自发的形式接单，分散性太强；二来我们也担心，在没有对车主实行统一管理的情况下，难以在分配时做到绝对公平、毫无纰漏。
On the one hand, the owner is in the form of spontaneous order, too strong dispersal; on the other hand, we are concerned that in the absence of a unified management of owners, it is difficult to achieve absolute fairness and integrity in distribution.
我们不敢贸然接受社会捐赠的物资与资金，只能反复强调一定要注意个人防护。
We dare not boldly accept the materials and funds donated by the society, we can only emphasize that we must pay attention to personal protection.
但后来，还是有一位车主告诉我们，他出现了发热症状，已回家自行隔离。
But then, a car owner told us that he had febrile symptoms and had returned home to isolate himself.
我们认为自己没能保护好这些奋战在一线的人。
We don't think we've been able to protect those on the ground.
车主的处境比想象中得要更加严峻，并不是所有人都能理解他们的善举。
Car owners are in a much tougher position than they think, and not everyone understands their kindness.
有车主大年夜还在外面忙着接送医护人员，当晚回家就和家人起了争执，还有车主在群里说，他的车钥匙被家里人收走了，没办法继续接单了，怕占用群里的位置决定退群。
The owner of the car, who was busy taking the paramedics outside, had an argument with his family that night, and the owner of the car said that his car keys had been taken away by his family and that he could not continue to take orders, for fear of occupying positions in the group decided to quit.
遭遇物资短缺、身心疲惫的他们选择离开，原本就是人之常情，没有人会责备他们。
Encountered material shortages, physical and mental exhaustion they choose to leave, is the natural human nature, no one will blame them.
但那位车主在退群以前，还是郑重地道了一声“抱歉”。
However, the owner of the car before retreating, or a solemn "sorry."
面对重重矛盾，留下的车主们也开始的审视这座“桥梁”的脆弱和未卜的未来。
Faced with many contradictions, the remaining owners also began to look at the "bridge" of the fragile and uncertain future.
前一晚，车主老徐给管理员“左卫门”打了长达一刻钟的电话。
The night before, the owner of the car Xu to the administrator "left Wei Men" made a 15-minute phone call.
“他说我们不是正规军，在消毒安全措施上没办法做到位，万一一个人感染了，就会引起连锁反应。
"He said we're not a regular army and we can't do it in terms of disinfection safety measures. If a person gets infected, it can set off a chain reaction.
”“你们今天一定要给出答案。
"" You must give the answer today.
”挂了电话，老徐又给他发消息，“别人拖，我们可拖不得。
After hanging up the phone, Xu sent him another message.
”老徐的话刺痛了大家的神经。
"Xu's words stung everyone's nerves.
没有人愿意眼睁睁地看着这些善良的人被暴露在危险之中，也没有人经得起如此看不到尽头的消耗。
No one wants to see these good people exposed to danger, and no one can stand such endless consumption.
最终，我们决定从27日0点开始，无限期暂停医护出行互助群的活动。
Finally, we decided to suspend the activities of the Medical Travel Assistance Group indefinitely from 0 pm on the 27th.
“我们的初心是度过一个空档期。
"Our first thought is to get through a gap.
”在当晚的公告中，角角写道，“大家来自各行各业，团队里的所有管理员都是在群里临时召集起来的。
'People come from all walks of life, 'he wrote in the evening's announcement.' All the managers on the team were assembled in the group on an ad hoc basis.
我们没能为大家提供最全面的服务。
We have failed to provide the most comprehensive service to all.
”感到茫然的并不只有我们。
We are not the only ones at sea.
几天前，一位民间爱心车队的负责人在自述中写道，过去几天里，他所在的车队司机人数从4000迅速滑落到了400：“整个民间爱心车队真的已经到了坚持的极限了。
A few days ago, the head of a team of folk lovebirds wrote in a self-report that the number of drivers in his motorcade has dropped from 4,000 to 400 over the past few days: "The whole team of folk love is really at its limits.
”暂停互助群后，我们依然想为车主和医护们做点什么，正如角角在公告中所写的那样，“尽力做我们能做的事情。
After the pause, we still wanted to do something for the car owners and the paramedics, as the corner statement put it, "Do what we can."
”为了寻找出路，我们曾试图将互助群挂靠在更专业的慈善机构下，或是由网约车平台吸收。
In search of a way out, we have tried to anchor mutual aid groups in more professional charities or by using internet dating platforms.
因为机构或平台能够车主提供更专业的防护用具。
Because the organization or platform can provide more professional protective equipment for the owner.
在看到滴滴召集100名司机组建“医护保障队”的消息后，Reaka就萌生了寻求平台帮助的念头，辗转通过在线客服、电话客服咨询，以及微博大V的帮助，最终联系到了滴滴，但后者在那时也只能有限地覆盖武汉协和、武汉市中心医院和武汉三院三家医院。
After seeing the news that 100 drivers had been assembled to form "medical support teams," Reaka came up with the idea of seeking platform help, tossing and turning to online customer service, telephone customer service consultations, and Weibo V. But the latter could only cover three hospitals, Wuhan Concorde, Wuhan Central Hospital and Wuhan.
27日，滴滴出行总裁柳青发微博表示，医护保障队的司机增加到了200名，从人工调配改为平台调度，但为更多医护工作者服务确实还需要时间。
On the 27th, Liu Qingfa, president of Drop-Drop Travel, said the number of drivers on the medical support team had increased to 200, moving from manual to platform, but that it would take time to reach more health-care workers.
“请大家给我们一点时间。
"Give us some time, please.
”柳青写道。
"Liu Qing wrote.
我们也曾试图在自媒体的帮助下，为医护人员对接免费的住宿需求。
We have also tried to match the free accommodation needs of medical staff with the help of the media.
可就在今天（1月31日），武汉医护酒店支援联盟发布公告称，由于缺乏物资与资金，酒店运营已到极限，即日起武汉地区的159家酒店、民宿、公寓和小型连锁酒店将不再接待医护人员与客人。
But today (January 31), Wuhan Healthcare Hotels Support League issued a statement saying that due to lack of materials and capital, the hotel has reached its limit, and 159 hotels, residential buildings, apartments and small hotel chains in Wuhan will no longer receive medical staff and guests.
灾难面前，即使是能够调配大量资源的商业力量，所能做的事情也非常有限。
In the face of disaster, even a commercial force able to marshal large amounts of resources can do very little.
但如果连平台都无法提供帮助，像我们这样以意志驱动、自发凝聚的临时互助组织，又该怎么办？没有人告诉我们答案。
But what if even a platform can't help, a will-driven, spontaneous, makeshift mutual-aid organization like ours? No one tells us.
▲滴滴出行：请大家给我们一点时间许多车主依然活跃在一线。
Drop trip: please give us a little time many car owners are still active in the line.
包括老徐在内，他们开始通过微信群等其他消息渠道继续接单，不仅接送医护，也运输物资。
Including Xu, they began to receive orders through other sources, such as microphone groups, to transport not only medical care but also supplies.
“就算暂停了，我们还不是想方设法地在接单，不如继续。
"Even if the pause is over, we're not trying to pick up the order, let's keep going.
”一位车主在私聊中说道。
'said one of the owners in a private conversation.
那时候，服务于医护出行的接单工具陆续出现，我所在的另外几个更加松散的微信群里，开始有车主号召大家使用这些平台。
In those days, as the list of delivery tools for medical travel began to emerge, other, looser groups of micro-letters began to have owners calling for the use of these platforms.
有医护告诉我们，终于约上了社区的车队服务。
Medical attention told us that we had finally been contracted to the community convoy service.
滴滴联系到我们，希望和群里的车主做对接。
Droplets of contact with us, hope to do with the group of car owners do docking.
一切似乎开始缓慢地朝着更好的方向发展，已经没有人再提起重启互助群的事情。
Things seem to be slowly moving in a better direction, and no one is talking about restarting mutual aid groups.
陆续有媒体刊发了有关爱心车主的报道，他们被描绘成武汉的平民英雄，串联成这座孤城的毛细血管，但我始终不知道要以怎样的笔触去记录他们。
There have been reports in the media about loving motorists, portrayed as Wuhan's civilian heroes, strung together into the capillaries of the city, but I still don't know how to write them down.
我不想将普通人歌颂成英雄，因为成为英雄意味着，他们的牺牲与努力都将因歌颂而被合理化。
I don't want ordinary people to be heroes, because being a hero means that their sacrifices and efforts will be rationalized by singing the praises.
所谓的众志成城，只靠人与人的短暂连接是不够的。
It is not enough to rely on the short-term connection between people.
在突如其来的灾难面前，民间的力量以燃烧自我的方式迅速集结，尽管可以短暂地创造奇迹，但由于缺乏统一的调配与资源的支撑，奇迹过后，是望不到尽头的前路，与一个个不知所措的、善良的人。
In the face of sudden disasters, civilian power in the form of self-burning rapid build-up, although miracles can be short-lived, but because of the lack of unified deployment and resources, miracles, after the miracle, there is no end to the road, with a confused, kind people.
而奔走自救的武汉人，绝不是扁平的“好人好事”模板。
But the Wuhan people who run to save themselves are by no means flat "good people" template.
人与人的选择永远都是复杂而多面的，在武汉关闭离汉通道以前，他们只是互不相识的普通人，也有自己的生活，也会疲惫和恐惧，也有伸手够不到的远处。
Before Wuhan closed the Han Dynasty, they were just strangers. They had their own lives, weariness and fear, and they could not reach out.
28日上午，老徐忽然说要告诉我一个好消息——他被收编进了社区志愿者车队，武汉市卫健委让他明天上午10点去报道。
On the morning of the 28th, Xu suddenly said that he would like to tell me a good news - he was integrated into the community volunteer convoy, Wuhan City Health Commission asked him to report tomorrow morning at 10 a.m.
那一天，全国冠状病毒确诊病例逼近六千。
On that day, nearly 6,000 cases of coronavirus were diagnosed nationwide.
科比的猝然离世一度让这个老球迷伤心了许久，但他很快又穿梭在武汉各处，寻找一切机会运输物资和医护。
Bryant's sudden death grieved the old fan for a long time, but he soon shuttled around Wuhan, looking for every opportunity to transport supplies and medical care.
前一天夜里，老徐只睡了两个小时，他在朋友圈里写道：“武汉，快点好起来吧。
The night before, Xu had only slept for two hours. He wrote in his friends' circle: "Wuhan, get better soon.
”（文中Reaka、角角、苍穹、左卫门、蓝点、老徐为化名）end©消费新声原创内容 转载请联系授权【爆料或寻求报道】加微信号：Suburb001 【商务合作】加微信号：sansheng_kefu。
(Text Reaka, Corner, Dome, Left Wei Dot, Blue Dot, LaoXu Huiwei) Original content Original composition Contented with Authorization or Seeking Report Microsignal Add Micro Signal: sansheng _ kefu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我在医护出行互助群的72小时 | 武汉人①。
At least 72 hours of service at the Medical Travel Service.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "消费新声";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我在医护出行互助群的72小时 | 武汉人①";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; I & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var msg_desc = "英雄本不必成为英雄";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; A hero need not have been a hero or quot;;
var title ="消费新声";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
