「武汉加油」：疫情中的日本援手｜特别报道。
"Come on, Wuhan": Japan's Help in the Epidemic, Special Report.
任彤瑶。
Ren Tongyao.
消费新声                      。
Consumption news.
消费新声。
Consumption news.
『消费新声』由三声核心内容团队创办，专注于从商业角度解读年轻人在消费和生活领域的更新升级，为泛消费领域的从业者和投资者提供富有预见性、启发性的深度原创报道。
Founded by the Three Core Group, the Consumer Sounds focuses on understanding young people's life and consumption from a business perspective, providing predictable, inspirational, in-depth, original coverage for practitioners and investors in the broader consumer world.
。
.
关注并星标消费新声不错过泛消费任何最新动态尤其在近十年，尽管国际形势时有起落，但两国的经济和民间交流正在不可逆地粘连到一起，相似的传统文化背景让我们之间形成对照，成为几乎不可能被斩断的近邻。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. Especially in the last decade, despite the ups and downs of the international situation, economic and civic exchanges between the two countries are becoming irrevocably linked, with similar traditional cultural backgrounds setting us apart as close neighbours that are almost impossible to cut off.
作者 |任彤瑶编辑 | 罗立璇在这几天焦灼的防疫战情中，第一个被中国人感谢的朋友是日本。
Ren Lixuan, editor and deputy director of Ren Lixuan, was the first Chinese friend to be thanked by the Chinese during the anxious epidemic prevention campaign in recent days.
从物资支援、到疫情的控制方案，再到日本国内民众自发对中国游客传达出来的善意，都在中国社交平台上得到了很大的传播和认可。
From material support to epidemic control programs to spontaneous goodwill to Chinese tourists in Japan, they have gained widespread recognition on Chinese social platforms.
实际上，这样的帮助在近数十年来并不罕见。
Indeed, such help has not been uncommon in recent decades.
在中国非典、汶川地震、青海玉树地震等事件中，均有日本援助的身影。
In China SARS, Wenchuan earthquake, Qinghai Yushu earthquake and other events, there is Japanese assistance shadow.
尤其在近十年，尽管国际形势时有起落，但两国的经济和民间交流正在不可逆地粘连到一起，相似的传统文化背景让我们之间形成对照，成为几乎不可能被斩断的近邻。
Especially in the last decade, despite the ups and downs of the international situation, economic and civic exchanges between the two countries are becoming irreversibly intertwined, with similar traditional cultural backgrounds setting us apart as close neighbours that are almost impossible to sever.
1月26日，日本外相茂木敏充与中国国务委员兼外交部长王毅举行了电话会谈，表示愿同中国一道，共同应对疫情威胁，向中国提供全方位的支援与帮助。
On January 26, Japanese Foreign Minister Mo Min-chung held telephone talks with Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, expressing readiness to work with China to address the threat of the epidemic and provide all-round support and assistance to China.
“遇到困难时倾力相助的朋友才是真朋友。
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
”日本援助自武汉新型肺炎疫情爆发后，引起国际社会多方关注。
"Japan's aid has attracted international attention since the outbreak of the new pneumonia epidemic in Wuhan.
日本于1月15日确认国内首宗新型冠状病毒感染者，并在此后陆续确认数个感染病例。
Japan confirmed its first case of a new type of coronary virus on January 15 and has confirmed several cases since then.
截至目前，日本国内新型冠状病毒确诊患者增加至6名，其中甚至有一例是从未去过武汉，但1月曾两次运送武汉团体游客的巴士司机。
So far, the number of confirmed cases of the new coronavirus in Japan has risen to six, including one bus driver who has never been to Wuhan but who twice transported Wuhan group tourists in January.
23日起，日本停飞所有往武汉航班，外务省发出 “2级感染症危险情报”，要求日本国民除紧急情况外，不要前往武汉市和湖北省。
Since then, all flights to Wuhan have been grounded, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has issued "information on the danger of Class 2 infection," urging Japanese nationals not to travel to Wuhan and Hubei provinces, except in case of emergency.
同时要求所有在中国的日本人，到驻中国各地的使领馆登记个人资料申报个人健康状况，并在机场加强了红外线体温检测，在中国游客集中的公共区域放置免费消毒液。
At the same time, all Japanese in China are required to register their personal data with embassies and consulates throughout China to declare their personal health status, and infrared temperature testing has been stepped up at airports and free disinfectant has been placed in public areas where Chinese tourists are concentrated.
对于被感染者，日本政府也采取了严谨的态度。
The Japanese government has also taken a cautious approach to those infected.
1月26日，日本的疫情发布会引起了国内讨论，厚生劳动省在发布第四例感染者时，拒绝公布患者国籍。
On January 26, the Japanese epidemic led to domestic discussions, with the ministry refusing to disclose the nationality of a fourth case of infection.
面对记者追问，厚生劳动省表示：“国籍与疫情无关，出于对患者个人的尊重，因此不公布国籍。
Asked by reporters, the ministry said: "Nationality is not related to the epidemic situation, out of respect for the individual patient, so do not disclose nationality.
”一天以后，日本政府在1月27日正式将新型肺炎列为“政府指定传染病”。
A day later, the government officially declared the new pneumonia "a government-designated infectious disease" on January 27.
根据《传染病法》，可以对患者采取强制入院等措施。
Under the Communicable Diseases Act, measures such as compulsory hospitalization may be imposed on patients.
同时对感染冠状病毒的患者，不分国籍实施免费治疗。
At the same time, patients infected with coronavirus, regardless of nationality to implement free treatment.
内阁官房长官菅义伟在当天上午举行的记者会上表示：“根据以中国为主的患者不断增加的状况，政府正在制定相关的对策，对于感染者的住院费用与治疗费用，实行公费负担。
"In the light of the increasing number of patients mainly in China, the government is formulating measures to cover the hospital and treatment costs of infected people," Chief Cabinet Secretary Naoto Kan said at a press conference this morning.
”在严肃面对国内疫情的同时，日本政府开始向中国伸出援助之手。
"While taking the outbreak seriously at home, the Japanese government is beginning to lend a helping hand to China.
28日上午的记者会，回答凤凰网记者提问时菅义伟再次表示：日本有什么能做的，将会全力帮助中国。
28 morning press conference, in response to questions from the Phoenix Internet Kan again said: Japan has what can do, will do everything to help China.
日本将会送去防护服、口罩等物资。
Japan will deliver protective clothing, masks and other supplies.
”支援行动也延伸到了具体地区。
Support operations have also been extended to specific areas.
作为武汉首个国际友好城市的大分市将防灾仓库中储备的三万只口罩捐往武汉，纸箱上用中文写着“武汉加油! ”大分市位于九州，并不富裕。
The city, Wuhan's first international friendly city, donated 30,000 face masks from its disaster-prevention depot to Wuhan, where the carton was written in Chinese: "Come on, Wuhan!
据报道，原定3月8日举办的武汉和大分友好城市缔结40周年纪念活动因疫情延期。
It is reported that the celebration of the 40th anniversary of Wuhan and Dazhong Friendship City, originally scheduled for March 8, has been postponed due to the epidemic.
大分市文化国际课的卫藤佑一科长说：“希望在与武汉密切联系的同时能够为他们做点什么。
"I hope we can do something for them while we are in close contact with Wuhan," said Yuji Wei, chief of Dazhong Culture International Division.
”28日，东京都政府提出将向湖北省提供2万套防护服供医护人员使用，据凤凰网记者李淼，这些防护服来自东京都的防地震储备物品。
On the 28th, the TMA government offered to supply Hubei province with 20,000 suits of protective clothing from TMA's earthquake-proof reserve, according to OP reporter Li Miao.
作为重庆友好城市的日本水户市，28日也向重庆捐赠了5万只医用口罩。
As a friendly city in Chongqing, the Japanese city of Shuibu on the 28th also donated 50, 000 medical masks to Chongqing.
在水户市长高桥靖在致重庆市长的信中写道：“衷心祝愿中国的疫情早日获得改善，重庆市民早日重回安定的生活！”在捐赠口罩的箱子上，贴着“中国加油！重庆加油！日本水户市支持你们！”的字样。
"We sincerely hope that the epidemic situation in China will improve and that the citizens of Chongqing will return to a stable life at an early date," Gao Qiajing, the mayor of water, wrote in a letter to Chongqing Mayor.
在官方之外，日本的公司和个人也在向武汉伸出援手。
Officially, Japanese companies and individuals are reaching out to Wuhan.
日本游戏公司DMM的创始人龟山敬司1月25日连发三条推特，表示DMM已将口罩、防护服等一批医用物资运达武汉，正在与红十字会对接，并呼吁大家继续支援武汉。
Japanese gaming company DMM founder Kyoshanji sent three tweets on January 25, saying the company had delivered medical supplies such as masks and protective clothing to Wuhan, docking with the Red Cross and calling for continued support.
1月26日，“日本国际友人”向中国捐赠口罩的消息引起了公众关注，据中国驻日大使馆透露，这是来自日本公司伊藤洋华堂的紧急捐赠。
Japan's international friend donated face masks to China on Jan. 26, drawing public attention to an emergency donation from the Japanese company Itoya Ito, according to the Chinese embassy in Tokyo.
500 箱共计80万枚口罩予成都市应对此次新型冠状病毒疫情，这些口罩已抵达成都等待分发。
A total of 800, 000 cases of surgical masks were given to Chengdu in response to the new coronavirus outbreak, which has arrived in Chengdu awaiting distribution.
27日，据朝日新闻报道，日本永旺集团应政府要求，将照常开放旗下5个位于武汉的超市，他们将留下一部分日籍员工维持超市运营。
Japan's Ingwang Group will open five of its Wuhan-based supermarkets at the government's request, leaving behind a portion of its Japanese staff to run the supermarkets, Asahi said.
在民间，不少店铺也在口罩区域贴出了“武汉加油”“中国加油”的字样，一些店铺还将口罩打折出售、限量免费派发。
In the folk, many shops have put up the words "Wuhan refuels" and "China refuels" in the mask area. Some shops are selling masks at a discount and distributing them in limited quantities for free.
在日华侨也纷纷开始募捐行动。
Overseas Chinese in Japan have also started fund-raising operations.
历史渊源回顾历史，在数次自然灾难、疫情之中，都有日本向中国伸出援手的身影。
In retrospect, Japan has helped China in several natural disasters and epidemics.
非典期间，日本向中国提供数亿日元资金与医疗物资援助，并派遣国际紧急支援专家组协助非典防治。
During SARS, Japan provided hundreds of millions of yen in financial and medical aid to China, and dispatched an international emergency support team to assist in the prevention and treatment of SARS.
汶川大地震期、青海玉树地震期间，日本都向中国提供了紧急无偿资金援助，60多人组成的日本救援队是汶川震后第一支抵达灾区的外国专业救援队，民间各界公司、个人也纷纷为灾区进行募款。
During the Wenchuan earthquake and the Yushu earthquake in Qinghai, Japan provided emergency free financial aid to China. The 60-strong Japanese rescue team was the first foreign professional rescue team to reach the disaster area after the Wenchuan earthquake.
日本自1954年加入科伦坡计划后，开始向开发中国家提供政府开发援助。
Since joining the Colombo Plan in 1954, Japan has started to provide government development assistance to developing countries.
中日邦交正常化后，日本于1979年提出对华提供政府开发援助（又称日本对华ODA），通过有偿资金合作（日元贷款）、无偿资金合作和技术合作向中国提供援助，主要资金来自国民缴纳的税金。
After the normalization of diplomatic relations between China and Japan, Japan offered government development assistance to China (also known as Japan's ODA to China) in 1979, providing assistance to China through reimbursable financial cooperation (yen loans), non-reimbursable financial cooperation and technical cooperation.
时任日本首相大平正芳称，中国的现代化政策直接关系到国际协调的核心问题，更加富强的中国可使世界更加美好，日本正是基于这一点，并兼顾日本本国的利益才决定援助中国。
'China's modernization policy is directly related to the core issue of international coordination, 'said then-Prime Minister Masahiko Ohira.' Japan decided to help China based on a stronger China that would make the world a better place.
截至2018年，日本对华援助总额3.65万亿日元。
As of 2018, Japan's aid to China totals Y3.65 trillion.
许多大规模、技术难度高的基建项目都有日本的身影：北京首都国际机场2号航站楼、上海浦东国际机场，武汉长江二桥等多座长江大桥的建设，京秦铁路、南昆铁路等铁路的电气化改造，青岛港等港口的大型泊位建设，武汉钢铁集团和宝山钢铁集团等企业的设备引进等，均使用了低息长期的日元贷款援助。
Japan has been involved in many large-scale and technically difficult infrastructure projects, including Terminal 2 at the Beijing Capital International Airport, the Pudong International Airport in Shanghai, the Yangtze River Er Qiao in Wuhan, electrification of the Beijing-Qin and Nankun Railways, large berths in Qingdao and other ports, and equipment introductions by Wuhan Iron and Steel Group and Baoshan Iron and Steel Group.
此外，日本还在医疗保健、环保、人才教育等方面对中国进行无偿援助。
In addition, Japan has provided free aid to China in the fields of medical care, environmental protection and human resources education.
建于1984年的中日友好医院就是其中一项成果。
The Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, founded in 1984, is one such achievement.
在这次新型冠状病毒疫情中，中日友好医院派出20名医护人员前往武汉支援。
In this new coronavirus epidemic, China-Japan Friendship Hospital dispatched 20 medical personnel to Wuhan to support.
从1980年到2018年，39年间，日本可以说是中国最大的援助国。
From 1980 to 2018, Japan was arguably China's largest donor for 39 years.
据人民网，日本对华的总援助资金占24个对华援助国家资金的60％以上。
According to Renmin, Japan's total aid to China accounts for more than 60 percent of the 24 state funds for aid to China.
中国国家科学技术委员会及对外贸易经济合作部外国借款管理司曾评价：“1979年以来日本的对华援助，为我国经济建设打下了基础，并促进了我国经济社会发展。
The State Committee on Science and Technology of China and the Foreign Borrowing Management Division of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation have commented: "Japan's aid to China since 1979 has laid the foundation for China's economic construction and promoted China's economic and social development.
特别是无偿援助，为中日友好和经贸关系的发展做出了贡献。
In particular, non-refundable assistance has contributed to the development of China-Japan friendly economic and trade relations.
”随着中国经济发展水平提升，日本国内对逐渐减少以至最终取消对华政府开发援助的主张与讨论也逐渐出现，进入21世纪后，日本数次调整对华援助政策，大幅削减了对华ODA额度。
As China's economic development level has improved, so have domestic claims and discussions about gradually reducing, and eventually eliminating, its development assistance to the Chinese government.
2018年，在日本宣布即将结束对华ODA后，外交部发言人华春莹回应称：“日本对华官方资金合作在中国改革开放和经济建设中发挥了积极作用，日本也从中获得了实实在在的利益。
In 2018, after Japan announced that it would soon end its ODA to China, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hua Chunying responded, "Japan's official financial cooperation with China has played a positive role in China's reform, opening-up and economic construction, from which Japan has also gained tangible benefits.
这是中日互利双赢合作的重要组成部分。
This is an important component of win-win cooperation between China and Japan.
“此次武汉疫情，关于日本援助的讨论与猜测不少。
"The Wuhan epidemic has generated a lot of discussion and speculation about Japanese aid.
在网络舆论场中，有许多表达感谢的声音，也有不少对援助动机与力度的猜疑。
In the online media, there are many expressions of gratitude, but also a lot of suspicion about the motivation and strength of the aid.
无论如何，来自远方的帮助与奔走呼喊，始终值得感谢。
In any case, the help and cries from afar are always worthy of thanks.
end©消费新声原创内容 转载请联系授权【爆料或寻求报道】加微信号：Suburb001 【商务合作】加微信号：sansheng_kefu。
Business cooperation microsignal: sansheng _ kefu (business co-operation): micro-signaling: sansheng _ kefu.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「武汉加油」：疫情中的日本援手｜特别报道。
"Come on, Wuhan": Japan's Help in the Epidemic, Special Report.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "消费新声";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「武汉加油」：疫情中的日本援手｜特别报道";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; "Wuhan refueling": Helping Japan with its epidemic, special report & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "远方的帮助值得感谢";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="消费新声";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
