封城后的鄂州：这里没有太多新闻。
Huizhou after the closure of the city: there is not much news.
游玲玲。
Lingling You.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“我以为离开湖北就是安全的，没想到我让女儿过了一个没有地方住的新年。
"I thought it was safe to leave Hubei, but I didn't expect my daughter to have a new year without a place to live.
鄂州，距离武汉只隔50km，距离黄冈只隔一座鄂黄大桥，这个被本地人自嘲是“肉夹馍”的城市，一向不被大多数人关注。
Huizhou, only 50 km away from Wuhan, Huanggang only a Huanggang bridge, this local self-mockery is "steamed meat," the city has not been the majority of attention.
在封城期间，鄂州人的日常生活是怎样的，全民故事计划征集到一些鄂州人的生活日常，以下皆为当事人口述：“女儿‘逃离”湖北，可她却居无定所”周女士，59岁鄂州市居民这几天，我一直活在深深的自责当中。
During the closure of the city, Huizhou people's daily life is how, the national story plan to collect some Hubei people's daily life, the following are oral: "Daughter fled" Hubei, but she lives in no fixed place "Ms. Zhou, 59, residents of Huzhou City, I have been living in deep remorse.
我的女儿露露（化名）1月19日从上海回到鄂州，本来是一件值得高兴的事。
The return of my daughter Lulu (not her real name) from Shanghai to Huizhou on January 19 should have been a welcome development.
露露上次回来还是国庆节的事情。
Lulu's last return was a National Day event.
没想到武汉疫情爆发，刚到家我们就关注新闻报道的最新情况。
Unexpectedly, Wuhan outbreak, just arrived home we pay attention to the latest news.
许多在外工作的孩子都为了避免疫情感染，选择退票留在当地。
Many children who work outside the home choose to return their tickets to avoid contracting the disease.
我对露露说，“湖北现在到处都是病毒，我们鄂州市有许多人都是从武汉回来的，与黄冈又隔这么近，要不你回上海吧？”鄂州封城的当晚，我让露露连夜坐了鄂州去往上海的车，让她到了给我发消息报平安。
I told Lulu, "Hubei is now full of viruses. Many of us in Huizhou are coming back from Wuhan, so close to Huanggang, or you can go back to Shanghai.
但意想不到的事情发生了，露露回到上海后，出租屋的房东知道露露是从湖北返回去的，叫她第二天就搬走，不然就报警。
But something unexpected happened. When Lulu returned to Shanghai, the landlord knew that Lulu had returned from Hubei. He told her to leave the house the next day.
我让露露去住酒店。
I told Lulu to stay at the hotel.
但是酒店因为露露是湖北籍的，拒绝让她入住。
But the hotel refused to let her in because Lulu was of Hubei nationality.
我在家急成一团乱麻，想着离开湖北也许会更安全，但是没想到会发生这样的情况。
I made such a mess at home that I thought it might be safer to leave Hubei, but I didn't expect this to happen.
最后我想到在上海还有一个侄女，打电话过去求助，也被对方婉拒了。
Finally, I thought of a niece in Shanghai, to call for help, but the other side declined.
实在没有办法，我发了一个朋友圈求助。
There was nothing I could do. I sent out a circle of friends for help.
许多热心的朋友给了我一些在上海湖北人开的酒店，我逐个打电话联系，对方听说是从湖北出城，全都婉拒了我。
Many warm-hearted friends gave me some hotel in Shanghai Hubei people, I called one by one, the other heard from Hubei city, all declined me.
最后一个好心人说，有一个空出来的工作室，可以临时供给露露自我隔离。
One of the last well-wishers said there was a spare studio where Lulu could temporarily insulate herself.
这件事全都是我的错，我以为离开湖北就是安全的，没想到我让女儿过了一个没有地方住的新年。
It was all my fault. I thought it was safe to leave Hubei. I never thought I would let my daughter have a new year without a place to live.
“她们从武汉、黄冈来，到这里生孩子”阿波，31岁鄂城区医疗人员没想到人生中第一次使用特权，是在这个新年：医院给我开的召回上班证明。
"They came here from Wuhan and Huanggang and gave birth to babies." Abo, a 31-year-old medical worker in Hubei province, didn't expect the privilege to be used for the first time in their lives.
这些天，我一直在关注疫情的变化，医院的物资也告急。
These days, I have been watching the change in the epidemic, the hospital supplies are also urgent.
从1月27日到今天（31日）连续上班5天，陆续接触了一些孕妇，她们都是特地从黄冈、武汉过来生孩子。
From January 27 to today (31) consecutive 5 days, contact with a number of pregnant women, they are specially from Huanggang, Wuhan to give birth to children.
印象比较深的是一个从武汉来的孕妇。
Impressed more deeply is a pregnant woman from Wuhan.
预产期是29日，28日来住院的时候，发烧，肺部感染，精神状态看上去也很不好，还很幽默地摸着自己的肚子说：这小兔崽子来得真不是时候，等卸货了老娘要揍他一顿解解气。
He had a fever, an infection of the lungs, and looked in a bad way when he came to the hospital on the 29th. He felt his stomach humorously and said: The cub is coming at a bad time.
生孩子等于一个大手术，赶上了这种特殊时期，非常容易感染。
Giving birth to a child is tantamount to a major operation, catching up with this particular period, very easy to infect.
免疫力低下，可以说拼的就是身体的抵抗力。
Low immunity, can be said to spell is the body's resistance.
我们当时都为她捏了一把冷汗。
We all pinched a cold sweat for her.
所幸孩子昨天（30日）终于生下来了，是个小男孩，目前从平片来看，肺部没有问题，后面孩子要医学观察一段时间，妈妈也在作为疑似案例隔离恢复中。
Fortunately, the child was born yesterday (the 30th), is a little boy, from flat film, the lung is no problem, the children after a period of medical observation, mother is also a suspected case of quarantine recovery.
“来不及验货，酒精被一抢而光”小林，26岁鄂州市区居民接到鄂州市政府的文件通知，禁止拜年，禁止亲戚走动，在家除了睡觉上网，打扫卫生，做饭吃饭，只能默默地看着窗外的雨——湿漉漉的阴霾笼罩着这座城市。
The residents of Huizhou, 26, received a notice from the Huizhou government forbidding them to pay New Year visits, or to allow their relatives to move around. All they could do was sleep on the Internet, clean up, cook and eat, and silently watch the rain outside the window.
我1月18日返乡过春节，北京西站到武汉站的高铁。
January 18, I return home for the Spring Festival, Beijing West Station to Wuhan Station high-speed rail.
在这之前，有关武汉的疫情并未引起大家的关注，车厢内有个别的人戴口罩，我是没有戴口罩的那群。
Before that, the Wuhan epidemic did not arouse everyone's attention, individual people wearing masks in the car, I am not wearing a mask group.
两天后，我哥从京返乡，途经武汉回到鄂州。
Two days later, my brother returned home from Beijing via Wuhan to Huizhou.
妈妈是大年初一感冒的，在家睡午觉，起来后流鼻涕，轻微咳嗽。
Mom is the New Year's Day cold, naps at home, wake up with a runny nose, slight cough.
这可把我们吓得不轻，赶紧拿出体温计，测量体温36.4，还算正常，两个小时后，体温36.9，吃过感冒药后又去睡觉休息了，到了晚上体温已经37.6了。
After two hours, the temperature was 36.9. After taking cold medicine, we went to bed and had a rest. By night the temperature had reached 37.6.
妈妈的每一声咳嗽，都牵动着我们的心。
Every cough of my mother touches our hearts.
晚饭没来得及吃，我和我哥去家附近的药店，买些感冒药和酒精，做好居家隔离的准备。
Before dinner, my brother and I went to the drugstore near our house to buy some cold medicine and alcohol and get ready for segregation.
这是我们回家后第二次出门。
This is the second time we've been home.
药店的门口贴着“口罩已卖完”的字样，二十多平的药店，挤满了十几个人。
At the entrance to the pharmacy, the words "masks have been sold out" were affixed, and more than 20 Ping's pharmacies were crowded with a dozen people.
每个人都提一大袋子，买药像买菜一样。
Everybody carries a big bag and buys medicine like a vegetable.
我们走过去，把妈妈的症状描述了一下，女店员没有太多耐心，扔给我们一盒莲花清瘟胶囊：“就吃这个吧。
We walked over and described my mother's symptoms. The saleswoman didn't have much patience. She threw us a box of lotus rinderpest capsules.
”我追问：“还有酒精吗？想给家里消消毒。
"Do you have any more alcohol? I want to disinfect my home.
”她一摇手，“没了，全没了。
She shook her hand. "No, it's gone.
”正当我们准备拿着药准备结算时，角落一个中年男人拿着4瓶酒精排在我后面，我悄悄问，“不是说卖完了吗？”他手一指，顺着他的方向看去，药店角落凌乱摆放着一些箱子。
Just as we were getting ready to settle with the medicine, a middle-aged man in the corner, with four bottles of alcohol behind me, whispered, "Isn't that all sold out?" He pointed his hand and looked down his direction, the corner of the drugstore strewn with boxes.
有空的，也有没拆的。
Some are free, some are not.
另一个男人一看，走过去用钥匙划箱子。
Another man looked and walked over and scratched the box with his key.
这人嘴里不满地念叨着，明明有货说卖完了。
The man murmured bitterly, when it was clear that they were sold out.
这话被女店员听见，她冲过来：“不能动不能动！这是刚到的货，还没来得及验货，卖不了卖不了！”另一个女店员也嚷着，“一个人一次限购2瓶，放回去！”可是大伙根本不听，等女店员转身，大伙一哄而上，一箱子酒精瞬间抢空。
"The salesgirl heard this and rushed over," Can't move! It's a new product that can't be sold until it's ready for inspection! "Another saleswoman yelled," One person can buy two bottles at a time and put them back!
我趁机也抢了2瓶。
I took the opportunity to grab two bottles.
回去的路上，爸爸打电话来说，今天大年初一，快回来吃饭吧，熬的鸡汤都快冷了。
On the way back, Dad called to say that today's New Year's Day, come back to dinner, cooked chicken soup is almost cold.
我们提着好不容易买到的药，心里很不是滋味。
We were very upset with the medicine we had so hard to get.
“为了让我爸戴口罩，父女关系决裂”小娇，24岁鄂州乡镇居民我在家关注着微博热搜新增的数字变化，激动地把手机递给我爸，“你看你看，又新增确诊了17个。
"In order to let my father wear a mask, father-daughter relationship break," Xiaojiao, 24-year-old Huizhou township residents I watched Weibo hot search the new digital changes, excited to hand my father a mobile phone, "you see, there are 17 new confirmed diagnosis.
”我爸不以为然，不耐烦地推开我的手说，“哎哟，你别造谣了。
"My father pushed my hand away impatiently and said," Ouch, don't tell me.
”我说：“这怎么是造谣呢，这是央视新闻官方发布的疫情通告，不信你看嘛！”我爸看都不看一眼，笑着双手插兜，准备去镇上买年货。
"I said:" This is a rumor, this is the CCTV news official notice of the epidemic, do you see! "My father did not look at them, smiled and put his hands in his pockets, ready to go to town to buy New Year's Eve.
想让我爸戴口罩出门是一件不容易的事，这几天他对我的口头禅就是，“别造谣了。
It's not easy to get my dad out of the house wearing a mask. His mantra these days is, "Stop disinformation.
”我爸是个泥匠工，烟棍，五十多岁，没读什么书，不太会上网，半年前还闹过一回胃病。
My father was a mason, smoker, in his fifties, didn't read much, didn't go online much, and had a stomachache six months ago.
现在他获取信息的渠道就是看电视，听别人说给他听，可电视新闻上关于疫情的报道并不多。
Now his access to information is watching television and listening to others tell him, but there is not much coverage of the epidemic on the TV news.
他坚信自己活了大半辈子，人生的大风大浪都见过了，这次的疫情，当然也是小事。
He firmly believes that he has lived most of his life, life's big waves have seen, this epidemic, of course, is also a small matter.
村子平日里并没有多少人，大多都在镇上买了房子，只剩几个老人。
There were not many people in the village, most of whom bought houses in the town, except for a few old people.
过年比平日里热闹，都是在外做生意回来的，也有一部分是在武汉打工的。
The New Year is busier than usual, all of them come back from doing business outside, and some of them are working in Wuhan.
过年就喜欢聚在一起唠嗑，打牌。
Chinese New Year likes to get together and play cards.
他们都不戴口罩，还嘲笑戴口罩的人，“会作样子”。
None of them wore masks, and they laughed at those wearing them, "pretending."
我爸那天正要出门去镇上，我从床上跳起来，伸手递过去一个口罩，我说“戴上吧”，他把我重重一推，说，“你出去看看，去看看谁戴口罩了？书读那么多有什么用？2012年说世界末日的，是不是末日了？”我说这个病毒很厉害，特别容易传染给中老年人。
My dad was going out to town the other day when I jumped out of bed and reached over a mask. I said, "Put it on." He pushed me hard and said, "What's the use reading so much? Doomsday in 2012?
他说：“你就看着我会不会得病毒！”我没再接下去，没想到我爸会发这么大的脾气。
He said: "You look at me whether I will get the virus!" I did not go on, did not expect my father to be so angry.
气得我关上房间大哭了一场，觉得很委屈，戴上口罩防护着也不会损失什么。
Angry I shut the room to cry, feel very aggrieved, wearing a mask protection will not lose anything.
于是我拨通镇政府的电话，问为什么不正当宣传，不加大力度对此事进行引导，感染了怎么办。
So I dialed the town government phone, asked why the improper publicity, do not do more to guide the matter, infected how to do.
对方则回，目前还没有发现感染群众，不必搞得人心惶惶。
The other side of the back, so far has not found infection of the masses, do not cause panic.
我当即挂断了电话，立刻拨给了区政府，这一次得到了肯定的回答，说会立即推进相关宣传工作。
I immediately hung up the phone and gave it to the district government, which this time got a positive answer, saying it would immediately push ahead with the publicity work.
现在我们村子已经封了。
Now our village is sealed.
我爸也看到了电视新闻上发布的消息。
My dad saw the news on the TV news, too.
“都什么时候了，拜年就免了”刘彬，30岁小餐厅老板我是农村长大的，后来在城区学厨，结婚的时候和老婆买了我们自己的小房子，一年后我们的第一个宝宝出生了。
I grew up in the countryside, then learned to cook in the city, bought our own small house with my wife when we got married, and a year later our first baby was born.
于是就决定用我们手头的积蓄，开一个自己的小餐馆，做小本生意。
So we decided to use our savings to open our own small restaurant and start a small business.
今年是我们开餐厅的第一年。
This year is the first year we open a restaurant.
虽然餐厅不大，但开餐厅是很累的，每天早上要去市场买菜，一直忙到深夜九点半以后。
Although the restaurant is not big, but the restaurant is very tired, every morning to go to the market to buy vegetables, busy until after 9: 30.
大概在1月18日左右，除了日常招待客人，我还做了很多鱼丸、肉丸、鱼刺骨之类用来零卖。
Around January 18, in addition to the usual hospitality, I also made a lot of fish balls, meatballs, fish bone and so on used for retail sale.
当时就想着能早点收工过年，好好休息一下，好好陪伴儿子。
At that time, I thought I could finish work early and have a good rest to accompany my son.
所以在1月19日这天，我和老婆就关了餐厅。
So on January 19th, my wife and I closed the restaurant.
后来，我听老婆说到病毒的事，她平时喜欢刷微博看人家化妆。
Later, I listened to my wife talk about the virus, she usually like to brush micro-blog to see others make-up.
我们就待在家里，因为餐厅关门，自己也囤了很多吃的，也不怎么出去买菜。
We stayed at home because the restaurant was closed, and we hoarded a lot of food for ourselves, and didn't go out much to buy food.
但是儿子很闹腾，一直想出去玩。
But the son was very noisy and wanted to go out all the time.
到了年初一，我和老婆商量，要不要去丈母娘家送礼。
On the first day of the new year, my wife and I discussed whether to send gifts to my mother-in-law.
丈母娘打来电话说，“都什么时候了，拜年就免了。
Mother-in-law called and said, "What time is it? The New Year is over.
”我说要去我姐家拜年，她在微信给我发来打架的视频，是他们村子里因为不要外来人口进村拜年，于是打了一架。
When I said I was going to visit my brother-in-law for the New Year, she was sending me a video of a fight and a fight in their village because they wanted no more people coming to visit.
今年过年虽然缺了些年味，但是没有什么比健康更重要。
Although this year's New Year is missing some flavor, but nothing is more important than health.
“超市被搬空了，菜价翻倍涨”陈女士，42岁鄂州超市售货员我是鄂州市武商量贩超市的一名负责内衣区的售货员，包括保暖内衣、睡衣这块，也是两个孩子的妈妈。
"The supermarket was emptied and the price of vegetables doubled," said Ms. Chen, a 42-year-old Huizhou supermarket assistant who works in the lingerie section of Wuzhou City.
封城后，这几天我都戴着口罩去上班。
After sealing the city, I wear a mask to work these days.
家里口罩不够用，一次性的口罩戴了2天，药店的口罩也早就卖完了。
There were not enough masks in the house, disposable masks were on for two days, and the drug store masks were sold out long ago.
但是过年超市里人多，我和另外一个同事分早晚班，负责内衣区域，每个月1800的工资加上2％的提成。
But there were so many people in the supermarket for the Spring Festival. My other colleague and I worked in the morning and evening shift, running the underwear section.
大年初二，我上早班。
New Year's Day, I work early.
街上看不到什么人，小区门口有个社区管理，用大喇叭宣传让我们勤洗手、戴口罩，说了三遍。
There was no one in the street. There was a community manager in front of the neighborhood who used loudspeakers to tell us to wash our hands and wear masks three times.
这大概就是我儿子经常说的，“重要的事情说三遍。
That's probably what my son used to say, "Say the important thing three times.
”城里的小车全都不让走了，只有政府调动的132台车子可以走，街上没什么人，也没什么车，过马路都不用看红绿灯。
Not a single car was allowed to go in the city, only 132 that the government had mobilized. There were no people or cars on the streets, and there were no traffic lights for crossing the road.
超市是人最多的地方，超市的收银台在一楼，排队结账的人从一楼排到了二楼的内衣区域。
Supermarkets are the most crowded places, with the checkout counter on the first floor and the checkout queuing from the ground floor to the underwear section on the second floor.
通道里挤得满当当的。
The passage was crowded with people.
大家大多买的都是吃的，茼蒿之前19.9元一斤涨到29.9元一斤，也被抢购一空。
Most of the people are buying food, garland chrysanthemum before 19.9 yuan to 29.9 yuan a catty, was also snapped up.
有个小姑娘跑过来问我，说泡面放在哪里了，我手指向零食区，转眼，泡面也卖空了。
A little girl came up to me and asked me where the noodles were. My fingers were in the snack area, and I was short of noodles.
“门诊挤满了，不乏普通感冒的病人”周蓝，27岁鄂城区医院医疗人员前几天，医院刚爆出这个事情的时候，立即征集我们每个科室去领取医疗用品。
"The clinic was full of patients with the common cold," Zhou Lan, a 27-year-old Echeng Hospital medical staff, asked each of us to collect medical supplies the other day when the incident broke out in the hospital.
但由于疫情发生速度太快太突然，根本没有充足的物资发放到各个科室。
But because the outbreak was too rapid and sudden, there was simply not enough material to be distributed to the various sections.
我是放射科的医生，每一位在门诊看过的、有问题的病人都要来我们科室做检查，但是我们只发放医疗外科口罩，没有医用护目镜，医用防护服。
I'm a radiologist, and every patient I see in the clinic with a problem comes to my office for tests, but we only distribute medical surgical masks, no medical goggles, no medical protective clothing.
来医院看病的病人还是很多，门诊都挤满了，这其中不乏只有感冒普通发烧的病人。
Hospitals are still flooded with patients, many of them with a common cold and fever.
不要恐慌，这是大家要做到的很重要的事。
Don't panic, it's the most important thing to do.
对于疫情的发生，我们能做的是对抗病毒，了解病毒的防护知识、基本症状。
For the outbreak of the outbreak, we can do is to antiviral, understand the virus protection knowledge, basic symptoms.
鄂州连续好几天的阴雨天气，加上天气寒冷，许多免疫力低下的人就出现感冒，如果这时候就来医院，很有可能会出现交叉感染。
The rainy days in Huizhou, combined with the cold weather, have caused many people with low immunity to catch a cold. If you come to the hospital at this time, there is a high risk of cross-infection.
另外一方面，也应该做好防护，不能掉以轻心，我们相信很快可以控制住疫情。
On the other hand, we should also take precautions and not take it lightly. We believe we can bring the outbreak under control soon.
前两天还没封城，我打车回家，连出租车司机都戴上了口罩，说是公司规定一定要带。
Two days ago, I had not closed the city, I took a taxi home, even the taxi driver put on a mask, said that the company regulations must take.
当然很多人没有戴口罩，也有可能是因为根本买不到口罩了。
Of course, many people don't wear masks, and it may be that they can't buy them at all.
大年三十，和同科室的同事换班，回到乡下去看爷爷奶奶，村里的宣传车用大喇叭喊着：不能串门、不能拜年，禁止走动。
Year 30, and colleagues in the same departments, back to the countryside to see grandparents, the village propaganda car with a loud trumpet shouted: can not visit the door, can not visit the New Year, the ban on walking.
我爷爷奶奶刚开始特别固执地要出门，在我和我爸的几番劝说下，才保证过年不出门。
My grandparents just start to be very stubborn to go out, in my father and I several persuasion, just to ensure that the New Year does not go out.
除夕夜还能听到烟花声，在爷爷奶奶家烤火的感觉真好。
New Year's Eve can also hear the sound of fireworks, in the grandparents' house fire feel really good.
大年初一晚上十一点，窗外在下雨，我被召回医院上班，因为十二点要彻底封城，我爸连夜开车送我回城。
It was raining outside my window on New Year's Day. I was called to work because my father drove me back to town at night because of the complete closure at 12: 00.
把我送到城里的家后，父亲跟我交代几句，关门前还特地看了我一眼，叫我照顾好自己。
After sending me home in the city, my father told me a few words, before closing a special look at me, told me to take care of themselves.
我戴着口罩开始哭。
I began to cry wearing a mask.
我爸还要开车回去上班，外面还下着大雨。
My father has to drive back to work. It's raining hard outside.
征 集我们想通过全民故事计划这个平台，让大家了解湖北每个地区：武汉、黄冈、鄂州、黄石、孝感、襄阳、荆州、荆门、随州、咸宁、十堰、宜昌、恩施州、天门、仙桃、潜江、神农架林区，每个县、每个村镇的真实日常。
Through the National Story Program, we would like to let you know the true daily life of every region of Hubei: Wuhan, Huanggang, Huangzhou, Huangshi, Xiaoyang, Xiangyang, Jingzhou, Jingmen, Suizhou, Xianning, Shiyan, Yichang, Enshi, Tianmen, Xiantao, Shennongjiang and Shennongshan Forest Area.
在湖北的你，可以将你的经历告诉我们。
In Hubei you, can tell us your experience.
无论是一段话还是一张图片，都可以在全民故事计划的公众号后台，直接发送给我们。
Whether it's a paragraph or a picture, it can be sent directly to us in the public backstage of the Story for All program.
希望这次，我们能够一起渡过这一难关。
I hope we can get through this together this time.
撰文 | 游玲玲编辑 | 蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me something about yourself.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后的鄂州：这里没有太多新闻。
Huizhou after the closure of the city: there is not much news.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封城后的鄂州：这里没有太多新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; here.
var msg_desc = "我让女儿离开湖北，却让她居无定所。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I told my daughter to leave Hubei, but let her stay at home.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
