封城后的黄冈：确诊病例仅次武汉。
Huanggang after the closure of the city: only the second confirmed case Wuhan.
李星锐 李泽。
Li Xingrui Li Ze.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“弟弟上夜班，一上就是十二个小时，每天的口罩需求量大，一天要生产几十万只。
"My younger brother is on night shifts for 12 hours a day. There is a huge demand for masks and hundreds of thousands of them a day.
1月23号，在武汉宣布封城后不久，黄冈也宣布在1月24号零点封城。
On January 23, shortly after Wuhan announced the closure of the city, Huang Gang also announced January 24 zero closure.
这座紧挨着武汉的城市，有750万人口，从前它以“黄冈密卷”闻名，这次却也遭受到了疫情的重创。
The city next to Wuhan, with a population of 7.5 million, was once known as the Huanggang Scroll, but this time it was hit hard by the epidemic.
在封城期间，黄冈人的日常生活是怎样的，全民故事计划征集到一些黄冈人的生活日常，以下皆为当事人口述：“刚吃完饭，朋友下午就确诊了”王先生，26岁监理工程师家住黄冈市黄州区1月19号，我去武汉找朋友玩，在汉正街逛了一下午。
Mr. Wang, a 26-year-old supervisory engineer living in Huangzhou District, Huanggang City January 19, I went to Wuhan to play with friends and spent the afternoon strolling in Hancheng Street.
我们都没有戴口罩，也没有很在意这件事。
None of us wore masks, and we didn't care much about it.
20号，我回到黄冈，一个武汉的朋友来黄冈找我玩。
On the 20th, I returned to Huanggang, where a friend from Wuhan came to visit me.
也没有戴口罩，我们一起吃了饭，还去网吧打了几局游戏。
Also did not wear mask, we ate together, also went to the net bar to play a few games.
21号上午，他返回武汉，下午开始发烧、头晕、呼吸困难。
On the morning of the 21st he returned to Wuhan, where he began to suffer from fever, dizziness and shortness of breath in the afternoon.
去医院检查后，确诊了，是轻度。
After going to the hospital for a check-up, the diagnosis was mild.
之后就再也没有他的消息了，我打过电话，他关机。
I never heard from him again. I called and he turned off.
发微信也不回，应该是被完全隔离了。
I don't respond to my letters, I'm supposed to be completely isolated.
我吓坏了，赶紧跟家里人说了这个事。
I was so scared that I told my family about it.
他们也吓坏了。
They were scared, too.
我把他们赶到另一个房子里去住，我就在家里一个人自我隔离。
I drove them to another house, where I isolated myself.
这是第一个我没和爸妈一起度过的春节。
It was the first Spring Festival I didn't spend with my parents.
从22号开始，我就待在家里看看书，打打游戏，看看电影。
From the 22nd, I stayed at home and read books, played games and watched movies.
有时连游戏都不想玩了。
Sometimes I don't even want to play games.
我每天都很恐慌，会乱想。
I'm panicking and thinking every day.
每隔三个小时量一次体温，每天早上起床后，把酒精洒在床上消毒，用84消毒液拖地。
Take a temperature every three hours, wake up every morning, sprinkle alcohol on the bed disinfect, and wipe with disinfectant 84.
吃完饭后，用开水泡半个小时碗。
After dinner, soak in boiling water for half an hour.
爸妈每天给我打电话，来送些食物和水。
My parents call me every day to bring some food and water.
我住一楼，我让他们把东西直接扔进来，不要跟我碰面。
I live on the first floor. I tell them to throw things in and not to meet me.
黄冈的网络监管局可能是调查过户口，查到我19号去过武汉。
Huanggang's network regulator may have investigated the account, found that I have been to Wuhan on the 19th.
会经常给我打电话，提醒我不要出门。
Call me often to remind me not to go out.
小区里的物业也每天打电话给我，提醒我按时吃药。
The property in the community also called me every day to remind me to take medicine on time.
好在7天过去了，我既没有发烧，也没有咳嗽。
Fortunately, seven days later, I had neither a fever nor a cough.
一切正常，就是心理压力很大。
Everything's alright. Just a lot of stress.
这期间，我出过两次门，都是开车出去，几乎没有和人接触过。
In the meantime, I've been out on two occasions, all by car, and have had little contact with anyone.
是为了买酒精和84消毒液。
It's for alcohol and disinfectant 84.
84每人限购两瓶，还能买到，酒精就很难买了。
84 Limit the number of bottles per person to two, and when they are available, alcohol is difficult to buy.
我就买到了一瓶，是那家药店的最后一瓶，被我抢到了。
I just bought a bottle, the last bottle of that drugstore, and I grabbed it.
有一次我在家里乱翻，居然找到了5瓶酒精，好像是爸妈之前买来，准备过年煮火锅用的。
Once I rummaged around the house and found five bottles of alcohol, which my parents had bought before for the Spring Festival hot pot.
真是阴差阳错。
It was a mistake.
我就每天拿它们来消毒了。
I disinfect them every day.
“现在，城里连鸟叫声都听不见”熊小姐，24岁空中乘务员家住黄冈市黄州区1月21号早上，我从成都坐飞机到武汉，再从武汉站坐城际铁路回黄冈。
"Now I can't hear a bird in the city." Miss Bear, a 24-year-old flight attendant from Huangzhou, Huanggang, flew from Chengdu to Wuhan on the morning of January 21.
（从武汉站到黄冈，城铁每趟大概20分钟。
From Wuhan to Huanggang, the city railway takes about 20 minutes every time.
）那时候我就听说武汉有疫情出现，只是没想到那么严重，也不知道黄冈有。
) At that time, I heard that there was an epidemic in Wuhan, but I didn't expect it to be so serious.
23号上午，武汉封城后，我才渐渐感觉到事态的严重性。
On the morning of the 23rd I began to feel the seriousness of the situation after Wuhan closed the city.
武汉挺了不起的，居然用封城来阻挡疫情。
Wuhan is quite amazing, even with the closure of the city to stop the epidemic.
紧接着当天晚上，黄冈也封城了。
Immediately after that night, Huanggang also closed the city.
24号，黄冈封城第一天，我去了趟超市，买了些粮食回家囤着。
On the first day, I went to the supermarket and bought some grain for home, hoarding.
路上的行人基本都戴了口罩。
Pedestrians on the road were mostly wearing masks.
封城后的几天里，我待在家里刷手机，看到确诊的数据一直在往上涨。
For a few days after I closed the city, I stayed at home brushing my cell phone and saw the numbers go up.
但那都是网上的数据，还没有触及到我的生活，就感觉恐惧还在离我很遥远的地方。
But it's all online data, and I haven't touched my life yet, and I feel fear is far away from me.
后来，我妈妈跟我说，她有个朋友确诊了，还挺严重的。
Later, my mother told me that she had a friend who was diagnosed, and it was serious.
那个人只是去了趟中心菜场买菜，然后去麻将馆打了几局麻将。
The man only went to the central market to buy vegetables, then went to mahjong to play a few rounds of Mahjong.
不知道具体是在哪里感染上的。
I don't know exactly where I got the infection.
这时恐惧感才一下子降临，感觉这件事已经离自己很近了。
Then suddenly came the fear, feeling that the matter had come very close to themselves.
之后的几天，我就在家里和家人打扑克，和朋友在网上打游戏。
For the next few days, I played poker at home with my family and played online games with my friends.
我妈说，平时还能听到窗外的树上有鸟叫声，现在连鸟叫声都听不到了。
My mother said, usually can also hear birds in the trees outside the window, now even the song of birds can not hear.
整座城市都很安静。
The whole city is quiet.
我本来是28号上班的，公司通知让我停飞，先在家里休息。
I was supposed to be at work on the 28th. The office told me to stop flying and take a rest at home.
28号下午5点，领导通知我，从26号开始算，在家隔离15天，每天向她汇报身体状况。
At 5 p.m. on the 28th, the leader informed me that she would be kept in isolation for 15 days from the 26th and that she would be informed of her condition every day.
我问她，隔离完之后可以上班了吗。
I asked her if she could go to work after the quarantine.
她说还不清楚，上级没给指示，只能等进一步的通知。
She said it was not clear that the superior had not given instructions, but had to wait for further notification.
其他的同事跟我说，飞机上的杯子都换成了一次性的，毛毯也不准发了，乘务员必须佩戴口罩和手套。
Other colleagues told me that the cups on the plane had been replaced by disposable ones, that blankets were not allowed and that the flight attendants had to wear masks and gloves.
她们在群里调侃我说，你别回来了。
They teased me in the group that you wouldn't come back.
虽然只是开玩笑，但我听着还是挺不舒服的。
It's only a joke, but I'm not comfortable listening to it.
昨天晚上，我在家里实在憋不住，和妹妹一起偷偷出去遛弯。
Last night, I was so choked up at home that I slipped out for a walk with my sister.
黄冈的街头空无一人。
The streets of Huanggang are deserted.
我们走了很久，迎面碰到一个人。
We walked for a long time and came face to face with a man.
应该也是出来遛弯的。
It was supposed to be walking around.
我没想到会碰到别人，他可能也没想到，我们都愣住了，然后不自觉地拉开了距离。
I did not expect to meet others, he may not have thought, we were stunned, and then involuntarily opened the distance.
“已有志愿者感染，我还会去”杨先生，36岁黄冈供电公司职员家住黄冈市黄州区1月24号晚上，我看到消息说，政府打算征用大别山区域医疗中心，作为黄冈版的“小汤山医院”，专门治疗新型肺炎。
"There are already volunteers infected, I will go again" Mr. Yang, 36-year-old Huanggang Electric Power Company staff living in Huangzhou District, Huanggang City on the night of January 24, I saw news that the government intends to commandeer the Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center as the Huanggang version of "Xiaotangshan Hospital" to treat new pneumonia.
大别山区域医疗中心是黄冈市中心医院的新院区，主体工程和室内装修已经大部分完成，本来打算5月份开始使用，现在为了疫情，提前了。
The Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center, the new compound of the Huanggang Central Hospital, has been largely completed and was intended for use in May, but was brought forward by the outbreak.
25号凌晨，我在一些群里看到征集志愿者的消息。
In the early morning of the 25th, I saw a collection of volunteers in some groups.
我想去。
I want to go.
妻子本来是有不太赞成的，架不住我的态度坚决，最后还是同意了。
My wife was originally disapproving, unable to build up my attitude firm, finally agreed.
26号中午，我加了一个志愿者的群。
At noon on the 26th, I added a group of volunteers.
有好几百人。
There are hundreds of people.
群里会不定时发一些通知，说哪里需要人。
The group will send out some notices from time to time to say where people are needed.
想去的直接去就可以，不需要登记。
Want to go straight to go, do not need to register.
26晚上，我去了大别山医疗中心，从我家开车十几分钟到。
In the evening, I went to Dabie Mountain Medical Center and drove from my house for ten minutes.
进去之前先量体温，做的大多都是些体力活，搬病床和垃圾桶之类的。
Take your temperature before you go in. Most of it is physical work, moving beds and garbage cans.
中间也会随机抽查体温。
The temperature is also randomly checked.
市里的饭店“虾先生”和“原始部落”自发地给我们这些志愿者免费送饭来吃。
The city's restaurants, "Mr. Shrimp" and "Primitive Tribes," volunteered to give free meals to our volunteers.
从山东来支援的医生里，有些女医生头发太长了，防护服穿不进去。
Some of the doctors who came from Shandong province to help were too long to wear protective clothing.
有理发师志愿者去给她们理发。
A barber volunteer went to get their hair cut.
28号开始，就不再允许志愿者去大别山医疗中心了，应该是已经开始接收病人了。
Volunteers will no longer be allowed to go to Dabie Mountain Medical Center from the 28th. It must have started receiving patients.
我们就去别的地方帮忙。
We'll help out somewhere else.
昨天下午，有人在群里说，有一个志愿者已经被确诊了。
Yesterday afternoon, someone in the group said that a volunteer had been diagnosed.
也不知道是真是假，很多人都很害怕，不愿意再去了。
Many people are afraid and unwilling to go again without knowing whether it is true or not.
我还是会去的。
I'll go anyway.
“我一直担心的事，并没有发生”邓安庆 36岁青年作家家住黄冈市武穴市我家在武穴。
"What I've been worried about hasn't happened," said Deng Anqing, a 36-year-old writer who lives in Wukuen City, Huanggang City.
1月23日清早起来时，看到武汉封城的消息。
Early in the morning of January 23, saw the news of the closure of Wuhan.
起床后跟正在做饭的母亲说了一声，母亲不是很能理解，也不大关注。
After getting up and cooking with the mother said, the mother is not very understanding, not much attention.
这几天一直在她耳边念叨太多疫情的事情，我感觉她都有些消化不过来了。
Over the past few days she has been talking about too much epidemic in her ear, I feel that she has a bit of digestion.
很快黄冈市区也封城了，到了下午，我老家武穴也传出了封城的文件。
Huanggang District soon closed the city, in the afternoon, my hometown Wuxue also came out of the closure of the documents.
晚上，母亲来我房间聊天，我趁机放了十几个疫情的视频给她看。
In the evening, my mother came to my room to chat, I took the opportunity to play a dozen epidemic video to her.
她认真看完，感慨道：“有多严重了哎！”我说：“当然啊。
She looked it over and said, "How bad it is!" I said, "Of course.
你们在乡下看不到这些消息，外面都非常紧张了。
You can't see the news in the country. It's very tense outside.
”又说到了拜年的事情。
And then there was the New Year call.
现在头疼的是大年初一到初三的拜年。
Now headache is New Year's Day to the third day of the New Year call.
我跟母亲说：“真希望亲戚们不要来拜年了。
I said to my mother, "I wish my relatives would stop visiting me for the New Year.
很多人都说了电话拜年就好了。
A lot of people said that the New Year call just wish.
”母亲说：“那你也没办法说啊，很多亲戚连联系方式都没有，也就过年来一次。
"The mother said:" You also can't say ah, a lot of relatives do not even have contact with each other, so the New Year came.
”我又说：“那你要戴口罩。
"Then you should wear a mask," I said.
”母亲说：“戴口罩接待客人多不礼貌。
"How impolite it is to wear a mask to receive guests," she said.
”我急了，“是面子重要，还是命重要啊。
"I'm in a hurry," is face important, or life important.
”母亲说：“你不拜年，阻止不了别人拜年。
"My mother said," You can't stop people from celebrating the New Year.
这个挡都挡不住的。
There's no stopping this.
”到了24日，也就是除夕这天，我妈跟我说：“已经跟你哥说了，晚上和明天就去他家里不出来。
On the 24th, New Year's Eve, my mother told me, "I told your brother not to come out of his house at night and tomorrow.
要是有拜年客来，咱们家没有人。
If there is a New Year call, there is nobody in our house.
人家要是问起，就说去街上过了。
If anyone asks, they say they went out into the street.
这样别人也没话说。
No one else could say that.
”看来，天天在面前唠叨疫情的事情起了作用。
The daily nagging about the epidemic seems to have worked.
现在垸里戴口罩的人明显多了起来，年轻人大部分都戴了，我妈出门也戴，还有一些老人家不信这个“邪”，不肯戴。
Now the number of people wearing masks is clearly growing, most of the young people are wearing them, my mother is out of the house, and some old people do not believe this "evil" to wear.
堂哥也在家族群说不要串门了。
Cousin also said in the family group not to visit the door.
大年初一，从我哥哥家里回来。
I came back from my brother's house on New Year's Day.
原本担心的串门拜年的事情没有出现，家家户户大门紧锁。
Originally worried about the visit to the New Year did not appear, every door locked.
大街上几无行人。
There are few people in the street.
超市门口有人专门检测体温。
Someone in front of the supermarket specializes in temperature.
本地微信群里看到很多垸里的村干部敲锣告示不要出门拜年。
Local micro-letter groups see many land in the village cadres percussion gong notice do not go out to pay New Year.
大家都是通过打电话开视频联系。
Everyone is using the phone to make a video connection.
戴口罩已经成为大家的共识。
Wearing masks has become a common consensus.
母亲感慨说：“这真是这辈子见过的最冷清的春节。
"It was the loneliest Spring Festival that I've ever seen in my life," she said.
”“三块一包的口罩，卖到3块一个”May24岁在读研究生家住黄冈市浠水县1月19号那天，爸爸感冒了，那时候还没有铺天盖地的疫情播报。
"Three-pack-a-bag face masks are sold for 3-yuan ($3)." It is believed that Dad caught a cold on January 19 at the post-graduate home in these area.
但为了不传染，我还是在家对面的药店买了一包口罩，3块钱。
But to keep from catching the infection, I bought a bag of masks at the drugstore across the street, for $3.
我爸爸戴口罩出门，街坊邻居还调侃：“感个冒你还要戴口罩啊？”21号开始，我和弟弟就没有再出门。
My father went out wearing a mask, and the neighborhood joked, "How do you want to wear a mask?" My brother and I did not go out since the 21st.
对面药店普通的医用口罩卖到了3块钱一个。
Normal medical masks sold at the drugstore across the street cost $3 a bottle.
新闻上武汉被感染的人数一天天增加，黄冈市通报有12例。
Wuhan on the news that the number of infected day by day increased, Huanggang City reported 12 cases.
我开始很焦虑，劝说家人不出门。
I began to worry and persuade my family not to go out.
但大街上仍然人来人往，尤其是老人和小孩，依然没有戴口罩。
But the streets are still crowded, especially the elderly and children, who are still not wearing masks.
23号，继武汉被封城之后，黄冈也被封了。
No. 23, Huanggang was sealed after Wuhan was sealed off.
消息传开，对面药店挤满了人，都在争相抢口罩、板蓝根、酒精等。
Word spread that the drugstore across the street was crowded with people competing for masks, Banlangen, alcohol, etc.
哪怕是平时为一块钱争得面红耳赤的老爷爷，这时候也愿意花60块钱去买一包。
Even the grandpa, who was red-faced for a dollar, was willing to pay $60 to buy a bag.
从那天起，街上走动的人就越来越少，各家各户都在囤粮。
Since that day, fewer and fewer people have moved about the streets, and families have been hoarding food.
大年初一那天，村与村、镇与镇之间的路都被封掉了。
On New Year's Day, the road between village, town and town was sealed off.
街上一个人没有。
There was no one on the street.
由于是乡镇医院，没有完善的医疗设施，有疑似患者都只能往县城的医院送。
As a township hospital, there is no complete medical facilities, suspected patients can only be sent to the county hospital.
物资短缺也使医生只能穿最普通的防护服和口罩，护士朋友要去市区医院都没有车可以接送。
Shortages of supplies have also forced doctors to wear only the most common protective clothing and masks, and nurses and friends do not have cars to transport to urban hospitals.
这几天的清晨，每天都有社区广播在街上宣传，但陆陆续续又有人开始在街上游荡。
In the early hours of the morning, community radio broadcasts were being broadcast daily in the streets, but people continued to trickle down the streets.
“基层公务员，每天都在岗位上”曼，24岁公务员家住黄冈市麻城市我知道“新型冠状病毒肺炎”是在1月21日，单位开了一个大型会议，在此之前因为工作忙或者是因为我主动屏蔽跟自己无关信息的原因，根本就不知道这事。
"Grassroots civil servants are on duty every day." Mann, a 24-year-old civil servant, lives in Massachusetts, Huanggang City. I knew that the coronavirus pneumonia was on January 21.
那次会上布置的工作任务不止这一件，但我唯一记得的就是我们辖区的卫生服务中心负责人在会上给我们现场演示了“六步洗手法”。
There was more than one job assignment, but the only thing I remember was the six-step cleaning process that was shown to us at the conference by the head of our district's health service.
24号（除夕）上午11点，麻城实行交通管制，客运站停运。
24 (New Year's Eve) 11: 00 a.m., Massachusetts imposed traffic control, passenger terminal shut down.
工作群里一直有领导转发的各级防疫指挥部以“特级”“特提”标记的文件。
Work groups have been the leadership of the forward epidemic prevention command at all levels with "super" "Tetty" marked documents.
我也才意识到事情的严重性，也没什么心情看春晚，看就连临时安排的防疫特别节目也没看。
I also just realized the seriousness of the matter, not in the mood to watch the Spring Festival Gala, even the temporary arrangements for the epidemic prevention special program did not see.
在这段时间，单位的最高领导和相关责任人都没有放假。
During this period, the top management of the unit and those responsible for it did not have leave.
（这里的相关责任人指的是辖区村里结对的本单位中层领导、卫生服务中心干部、派出所干部、各村和社区的干部。
(The responsible persons here refer to the middle-level leaders of their units, cadres of health service centres, cadres of police stations and cadres of villages and communities twinned in the villages under their jurisdiction.
）除夕夜，他们也在坚守岗位，将防疫宣传单送给居民，用扩音喇叭全区巡逻宣传，摸排返乡人员登记造册等。
) On New Year's Eve, they are keeping their posts, handing out vaccination leaflets to residents, patrolling the area with loudspeakers, and registering and cataloguing returnees.
从初一到初五，各相关部门和相关人员主要负责持续宣传、做好区域内的消毒杀毒、投放回收废弃口罩专用垃圾箱等工作，而我临时被征用为宣传员，负责防疫工作的宣传报道，不参与具体事务。
From the first day of junior high school to the fifth day of junior high school, the relevant departments and related personnel are mainly responsible for continuous publicity, do a good job in the area of disinfection and sterilization, put into the garbage bin for the recycling of waste masks, and I was temporarily requisitioned as an advocate, responsible for publicity work on epidemic prevention and not involved in specific affairs.
这让我觉得自己也算为单位出了些力，很感谢和尊敬那些在一线战斗的人，医护、志愿者等等，当然还有这些基层工作人员。
It makes me feel like I'm doing a little bit of work for the unit, thanks and respect to those who fight on the front lines, medical care, volunteers and, of course, the people at the grass-roots level.
今天初五，天气不错，查了一下天气预报，最近几天都不错，随手涂鸦了一朵花。
Today, the weather is good, check the weather forecast, the last few days are good, graffiti a flower.
“外面在放烟花，好像哭声”Wang，25岁在读研究生家住黄冈市蕲春县直到1月23日，我突然听说武汉要封城了。
"Fireworks are being set off outside like a crying sound." Wang, 25, is currently studying at the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County of Huanggang City.
我才想起来要买口罩。
I just remembered to buy a mask.
我带着另一半出门，选了最近的一个大药房，问店里的老板娘有没有医用口罩，没等我们说完，她就说没有了。
I took the other half out of the door, chose the nearest large pharmacy, asked if the shop's madame had a medical mask, and before we finished, she said no.
我连忙又问了一遍能不能帮我们找找，一个大夫从角落里翻了翻，“只剩一包了。
I asked again if I could help us find it. A doctor rummaged through the corner. "There's only one bag left.
”县里的口罩早卖光了，好在一包里面有二十个，我当时觉得自己不在武汉，这些应该够用了。
County masks sold out long ago, but there were twenty in a bag, and I thought I wasn't in Wuhan.
然而疫情的发展远远超出了我们的预料。
However, the epidemic has gone far beyond our expectations.
继武汉封城后，黄冈也宣布封城，就连我们这个小县城也开始限制人口进出，而最令人担心的事情发生了，蕲春县出现了十几例感染，县医院宣布告急。
Following the arrest of the city by Wuhan, Huanggang has declared the city closed, and even our small county has begun to restrict the entry and exit of the population. The most worrying event is happening in Agkistrodon County, where there are a dozen cases of infection and the county hospital has announced an emergency.
除夕那晚，外面在下雨，烟花爆竹比往年少很多，听着那些烟花燃放的声音，我跟高中同学说：“外面在放烟花，好像哭声。
On New Year's Eve, when it was raining outside and fireworks were much fewer than usual, I said to my high school classmates, "There are fireworks outside, like crying.
”大年初一，我正准备午饭，街上开始有政府宣传车吹着喇叭喊着什么，我以为是县领导提醒市民注意防控病毒，赶紧放下手中的活凑到窗户那听，结果是他们反复播着要抓昨晚违反禁鞭令的消息。
On New Year's Day, as I was preparing my lunch, a government propaganda truck blared its horn on the street. I thought it was the county leader who alerted the public to the prevention and control of the virus.
我感到失望和气愤，以前学医的同学在朋友圈里一遍一遍呼吁着为县医院捐赠物资：医生连最基本的口罩和隔离服都不够，护士没有护目镜和防护服……我能做的也只有捐款和转发那些需要支援的消息。
Disappointed and angry, my former medical classmates kept calling over and over for donations to the county hospital: the doctors were short on even the most basic masks and isolation clothing, the nurses had no goggles and protective clothing... all I could do was donate and forward information that needed support.
在小县城里，老年人和长辈居多，这几天开始弥漫着烧艾草的气味。
In the small county town, the elderly and elders are the majority, these days began to diffuse the smell of burning wormwood.
由于连续一周多的阴雨天，街上没有什么人。
After more than a week of overcast and rainy weather, there was nobody on the street.
大年初五，天气放晴，我爸上午出门去倒垃圾，回来跟我们说：太阳出来后，大家憋不住，都出门逛街了。
At the beginning of the year, the weather cleared up, my father went out in the morning to take out the garbage, came back and said: the sun came out, everyone suffocated, all went shopping.
没一会儿，区委会有人敲门开始查武汉回乡人口，“你家有没有人从武汉回来的？”老爸开门回应：“没有，我们一直都在家，没出门。
Before long, someone at the district committee knocked on the door and began to check the Wuhan returning home population, "Is there anyone from your home back from Wuhan?" Dad answered, "No, we've been at home all the time.
”那人拍了一张照片去问下一家了。
"The man took a picture and asked the next one.
“弟弟在工厂加班，生产口罩”空谷幽兰，25岁教师家住湖北省团风县我家在团风，五天前，新型冠状病毒的危害性似乎还没有被人意识到，直到接二连三的封城消息，才使人们开始重视起来。
Five days ago, the danger of the new coronavirus did not seem to have been realized. Only after one series of blockades did people pay attention to it.
1月24日除夕，以往这一天是最热闹的，而大家都在疯狂地购买口罩和消毒用品，我住在小乡镇，这些东西早已抢购一空。
On January 24th, New Year's Eve, the busiest day of the year, everyone was frantically buying masks and disinfectant supplies, and I was living in a small town that had already been snapped up.
人们一边感叹这年实在没有年味，但仍有一大批人甚至从武汉回来的人聚集在一起聊天打牌。
While people lament that this year is really no age, but there are still a large number of people even from Wuhan gathered to chat and play cards.
今年是我们一家四口第一次没有聚齐的春节。
This year is the first Spring Festival when our family did not get together.
远在黄州的弟弟，因为回家的路被封，没车回来。
Huangzhou brother, because the way home was blocked, no car back.
弟弟是个沉默的男孩，2019年刚过20岁生日。
My brother is a silent boy, having just turned 20 in 2019.
他所从事的工作是在黄冈某公司口罩车间，他本可以赶在黄冈封城前赶回来，由于疫情突发，口罩紧缺，他没有口罩，就留在了那里。
His job was in a company mask shop in Huanggang, where he could have been back in front of the city, and he stayed because of an outbreak of the disease and a shortage of masks.
车间里很多工人早就回家，准备与家人团聚过年，他一个人住在寝室里过着冷清的春节。
Many workers in the workshop had come home early, ready to reunite with their families for the New Year. He lived alone in his dorm room for the Spring Festival.
由于年轻，弟弟被分到上夜班，一上大概就是十二个小时，每天的口罩需求量大，一天要生产几十万只。
Because of his youth, his younger brother was assigned to night work, about twelve hours a day, and there was a huge demand for masks, producing hundreds of thousands of them a day.
只在除夕那天，他们才休息了一天，其它几天都在加班。
Only on New Year's Eve did they take a day off and work overtime for the rest of the day.
本来说，弟弟可以初四放假，现在依然在加班工作，父母每天打电话给他，担心他又怕打扰他休息。
Originally said that my brother can have a holiday on the fourth day of junior high school, but now he still works overtime.
家里准备好了食物等他回来，一家人在一起才算过年。
Food was prepared at home and when he came back, the whole family was together for the New Year.
征 集我们想通过全民故事计划这个平台，让大家了解湖北每个地区：武汉、黄冈、鄂州、黄石、孝感、襄阳、荆州、荆门、随州、咸宁、十堰、宜昌、恩施州、天门、仙桃、潜江、神农架林区，每个县、每个村镇的真实日常。
Through the National Story Program, we would like to let you know the true daily life of every region of Hubei: Wuhan, Huanggang, Huangzhou, Huangshi, Xiaoyang, Xiangyang, Jingzhou, Jingmen, Suizhou, Xianning, Shiyan, Yichang, Enshi, Tianmen, Xiantao, Shennongjiang and Shennongshan Forest Area.
在湖北的你，可以将你的经历告诉我们。
In Hubei you, can tell us your experience.
无论是一段话还是一张图片，都可以在全民故事计划的公众号后台，直接发送给我们。
Whether it's a paragraph or a picture, it can be sent directly to us in the public backstage of the Story for All program.
希望这次，我们能够一起渡过这一难关。
I hope we can get through this together this time.
撰文 | 李星锐 李泽编辑 | 蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell me why? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you? Why don't you tell me why I'm with you.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后的黄冈：确诊病例仅次武汉。
Huanggang after the closure of the city: only the second confirmed case Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封城后的黄冈：确诊病例仅次武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; behind the cordon: & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "已有志愿者感染，我还会去。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Volunteers have been infected, and I will.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
