身在武汉：此刻的我在经历着什么。
Being in Wuhan: What am I experiencing at this moment?
李小婧。
Jing Li, Jing.
全民故事计划                      。
The National Story Project.
全民故事计划。
The National Story Project.
其实，每个人的故事都惊心动魄。
In fact, everyone's story is very exciting.
。
.
“父母都是医疗人员，父亲一直在接诊，母亲负责护士相关的所有工作。
"Both parents are medical personnel, the father has been attending to them and the mother is responsible for all the work related to the nurse.
这几天只回过一趟家，除夕那天，我一个人在家吃年夜饭。
I've only been home once in a few days, and on New Year's Eve I had dinner at home alone.
1月23日凌晨两点。
2: 00 a.m. 23 January.
武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布通告，自2020年1月23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉，机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, 2020, the city's city bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transport have been temporarily suspended. For no special reason, citizens should not leave Wuhan, and the airport and railway stations are temporarily closed.
恢复时间另行通知。
Restoration time to be announced.
自此，武汉封城。
Since then, Wuhan sealed the city.
在这段时间，武汉市民的日常生活是怎样的，全民故事计划征集到8位武汉市民的生活日常，以下皆为当事人的口述：“我只睡了四个小时，心有余悸”陈女士，32岁新媒体策划家住武汉市汉阳区我妈妈是12月因为血栓住院（在协和西院神经内科），12月30号我妈回家和我说，神经内科一天收了大量病人。
"I only slept four hours and my heart was palpable." Chen, a 32-year-old media planner from Hanyang District, Wuhan City My mother returned home in December because of a thrombosis (neurology department of the Concorde West Hospital) and told me that neurology department had a large number of patients a day.
我之前每天去医院看望的情况和她描述的情况对比，之前是神经内科确实有挺多病人，但是病床不是那么紧张，30号当天，据说走廊上都住满了人。
My daily visits to the hospital contrasted with what she described as the fact that there were indeed many patients in the Department of Neurology, but the beds were not so tight, and on the 30th the corridor was said to be full of people.
第二天，我上班的时候，同事发来一篇武汉发现SARS的文章，我觉得是谣传，但我听到是SARS还是点进去看了一下。
The next day, when I was at work, my colleague sent me an article about SARS found in Wuhan. I thought it was a rumor, but I heard it was SARS or went in there.
我开始向周围朋友求证，一个朋友之前在报社工作，她十分钟后回复我说这个消息是真的，然后我同事当时也联系了自己的医生同学，得到的消息是，极大可能是SARS的冠状病毒，但是目前是散发病例，也无需太过惊慌。
I started checking with friends around me. A friend who worked for a newspaper 10 minutes later replied that the news was true. Then my colleague contacted her doctor and learned that the coronavirus was most likely SARS coronavirus.
从12月31日，我每天都在关注这个事情的发展走向，在1月19号之前，我因为武汉的数字没变而焦虑，在19号之后，我因为数字开始突增又非常焦虑。
From December 31, I followed the situation every day. Before January 19, I was worried that Wuhan numbers had not changed. After the 19th, I became very anxious because the numbers began to increase.
1月19号那天，我家吃了小年的团圆饭，外地的亲朋好友也都计划在之后几天赶回武汉（后来因为事情变化，都陆续退了车票机票，无法返汉），吃完年饭后，我妈妈因为要办材料，又通知去了4医院。
On January 19th, my family and friends from all over the world planned to return to Wuhan in the next few days. (When things changed and the tickets had to be refunded, I couldn't return to Wuhan.
据她所说，协和西院在一月大概是十号左右，她去开药的时候医生就开始进行了武装，那时候肺炎的病情0消息，有的只有在网上的零星半点的小道消息。
According to her, the Concorde West Court was about the tenth of January, and doctors armed her when she went to prescribe the medicine.
封城后，我和父母留在家中，每天都在关注网上的消息，很担心病毒变异。
After the siege, my parents and I stayed at home, watching the news on the Internet every day, worried about the virus mutating.
现在我妈妈已经恢复健康了，活蹦乱跳的，想起来还心有余悸，如果是现在住院，简直不堪设想。
Now that my mother has recovered, and is alive and kicking, I think it would be unthinkable to be hospitalized now.
最近睡得不好，昨天四点睡的，八点就醒了，只睡了四个小时，爬起来想出门吃个汉堡，但除了超市，所有商业都已经关门。
I went to bed at four yesterday, woke up at eight, slept only four hours, got up and wanted to go out for a hamburger, but everything except the supermarket was closed.
“想到的第一件事，是囤食物”彭先生，37岁演出公司负责人家住武汉市青山区我于1月15日左右抵达武汉站，返汉之前，公司群里还有人问在武汉的同事“武汉肺炎不严重吧？”，在汉同事表示没什么事情。
"The first thing that comes to mind is the food," said Mr. Peng, head of the 37-year-old acting company, who lives in Qingshan District, Wuhan. Before returning to Wuhan on January 15, I was asked by some of my colleagues in Wuhan, "Is Wuhan pneumonia not serious?
因此，我毫无防备心地回到了家中。
So I went home defenseless.
1月16日，我还接待了北京抵汉出差的同事，在汉街吃了个饭，街上也没什么异动。
On January 16, I also received colleagues from Beijing arriving in Han Dynasty on business. I had a meal in Han Street.
1月20日早晨，我睁眼发现网上的确诊数量猛增，意识到不对劲。
On the morning of Jan. 20, I opened my eyes and realized that there was something wrong with the number of online diagnoses.
11点，我使用“京东到家”下单，购买附近药店的八包口罩（都是一次性普通口罩，附近没有N95口罩），同时，因为警觉，我还在京东超市又买了一些零食。
At 11: 00, I used the "Jingdong home" order to buy eight bags of masks (all disposable ordinary masks, no N95 masks nearby) from a nearby drugstore, and, on the other hand, I bought some snacks at Jingdong Supermarket as a precaution.
做年货。
Make New Year's Eve.
21日，我也给父亲做了思想工作，让他千万别出门，但我爸爸还是在22号被舅舅拉去汉正街逛街买衣服，好在汉正街市场里除了商户老板之外，人并不多。
On the 21st, I also did ideological work for my father, not to go out, but my father was taken to Hancheng Street by my uncle on the 22nd to shop for clothes.
1月21号，武商量贩，虽然有人戴口罩，但还是正常打年货的状态，无人哄抢1月23日凌晨两点，武汉发布封城通告，这时我在睡梦中，早晨九点一睁眼，已经吓懵了。
On January 21, Wuhan issued a notice announcing the closure of Wuhan on January 23 at 2: 00 am. I opened my eyes at 9: 00 in the morning and was stunned.
我妈之前和同事开车去宜昌出差， 23日返汉时，高速入口畅通无阻，并没有测体温的，但是对出城查得严格一些。
My mother and colleagues before driving to Yichang business, 23, the high-speed entrance unimpeded, and no temperature measurement, but a little more stringent out of the city.
现在，我和父母待在一起，女友在上海。
Now, I stay with my parents. My girlfriend is in Shanghai.
女友每天都问我家里东西还够不够，需不需要再买一些，但是现在市内物流困难，在淘宝买的东西也不一定能快速寄到。
Every day my girlfriend asked me whether I needed to buy more things or not, but now the city's logistics difficulties, the things bought in Taobao can not be sent quickly.
之前来武汉的同事，我们这阵子没有再联系过，不知道他们会不会觉得是一种“劫后余生”的经历。
The colleagues who came to Wuhan before, we have not been in touch with each other, do not know whether they will feel like a "life after death" experience.
不敢问，也不敢细想。
Dare not ask, do not dare to think carefully.
“孩子不在身边，侥幸又难过”grace，32岁采购家住武汉市硚口区封城后，我和家人在家呆了三天，没有下楼，因为之前购置年货，囤了不少菜，家里一共四口人，还能吃一阵子。
After living in Zhengkou District of Wuhan City, my family and I stayed home for three days, instead of descending the stairs, because we had purchased a lot of new year's food, but the family of four could still eat it for a while, according to the source.
因为无法出门，老人就在房间里看电视，偶尔玩手机。
Unable to go out, the old man watched TV in his room and occasionally played with his cell phone.
我和老公的状态比较无聊，每天都睡到中午才起来，今天吃的早午餐是西红柿鸡蛋面，很清淡。
My husband and I are rather boring state, every day until noon to wake up, today's brunch is tomato egg noodles, very light.
这个年过得不是很有年味。
This year has not been very annualized.
封城后，在家煮简单的面条过节目前，小区内，人际关系网内接触到的，尚没有病例，所以相对网上的传言来说，心态还算比较稳定。
After the closure of the city, cooking simple noodles at home at present, small areas, personal relations network contacts, there have been no cases, so compared to online rumors, the state of mind is relatively stable.
暂时还没有网购的打算，也没有特别急需的东西，口罩之前也囤了一些，因为不出门，所以也没有口罩消耗。
There is no plan to buy online, there is no particularly urgent thing, before the mask also hoarded some, because do not go out, so there is no mask consumption.
万幸的是，三岁的孩子已经在元旦时被我送回了广西老家，当时因为网上有传言说肺炎会传染，而我的身份证和驾照需要更新，所以回了一趟广西老家。
Luckily, the three-year-old was sent back to my hometown of Guangxi on New Year's Day after rumors spread on the Internet that pneumonia would spread and my ID and driver's license needed to be updated.
本来，我想着过年时回老家再把孩子接回来，没想到，因为封城，暂时不能出去接孩子了。
Originally, I thought of the New Year back home to bring back the children, did not expect, because the blockade, temporarily unable to go out to pick up the children.
孩子不在身边，有些侥幸也很难过，但也没有别的办法了。
The child is not around, some fluke also very sad, but also have no other way.
“女儿在外地，比我们还要着急”邹女士，58岁 退休人员家住武汉市汉阳区大概在12月底左右，女儿就告诉我武汉有疑似传染性肺炎，让我戴口罩，我平时有戴布面防风口罩的习惯，也没太注意。
My daughter is in Wuhan at about the end of December. My daughter told me that Wuhan has suspected infectious pneumonia, let me wear a mask, I usually wear the habit of wearing a cloth mask, and pay little attention.
后来在女儿的强烈要求下，我去药店断断续续买了几大包一次性医用外科口罩。
Later in the daughter's strong demand, I went to the pharmacy intermittent purchase of several large bags of disposable medical surgical masks.
每天出门戴口罩时，周围的人都会嘲笑一下，说搞得这么严重，又没什么事情，大家还是在一个马上要过年的欢乐氛围里，基本无人警觉。
Every day when you go out wearing a mask, people around you will ridicule, that it is so serious, and nothing, or in a happy atmosphere on the eve of the New Year, basically no one is alert.
而且我住的区域离事发地汉口有一段距离，所以心理上也还好。
And the area I live in is some distance from Hankou where it happened, so psychologically it's OK.
1月19日，女儿告诉我说她退了回武汉的票，准备和我在外地见面旅游，1月21日，情况急转直下，我也退了离开武汉的票，和女儿取消了旅游计划。
On January 19, my daughter told me that she had returned her ticket to Wuhan to meet me on a trip abroad. On January 21, the situation changed so sharply that I also withdrew my ticket from Wuhan and cancelled my daughter's travel plan.
1月23日封城开始，大家心理上突然都崩溃了，平时和我一起跳舞的广场舞姐妹都在家里不敢外出，也没有什么看娱乐节目的心思。
When the city was closed on January 23, everyone broke down, and the square sisters I danced with were too afraid to go out and watch entertainments.
家里要是有小孩子的就更紧张一些。
Those with small children at home are more nervous.
女儿基本每天都打电话来询问家里的情况，让我不要下楼，不要乱跑。
Daughter basically calls every day to ask about the situation at home, let me not go downstairs, do not run around.
我以前每天都喜欢下楼散步，哪怕是下雨也会在停车场走走，现在没法出门，感觉真是憋得慌。
I used to go for a walk down the stairs every day, even if it was raining. Now I can't go out, I feel really pent up.
我老公情绪比我稳定一些，还在家里给鱼缸换水，但我什么也不想做，动不动就在阳台上站着看外面。
My husband is in a more stable mood than I am, and I change water for the fish tank at home, but I don't want to do anything. I always stand on the balcony and look out.
平时车水马龙的街上，现在空无一人。
The busy streets are empty now.
今天社区又给我们发了一个“汉阳区密接人员信息简表”，让我们注意。
Today the community sent us a "Hanyang District Secret Personnel Information Summary", let us pay attention.
现在我按照女儿说的，通过盒马之类的下单一些食品，却都显示无法送达，很多都停了，要买东西只能亲自去，但我又不敢出门。
Now, as my daughter told me, I ordered some food through boxes of horses, but it was not delivered. Many of them stopped, and I had to go shopping myself, but I dared not go out.
我准备明天再试试，看盒马能不能顺利下单。
I'm going to try again tomorrow and see if a box of horses can go through the order.
“回不了家，身为武汉人受到歧视”园哥，27岁设计师家住武昌之前肺炎的事情还没有那么严重时，我定好了票，春节去韩国首尔旅游。
"Can not go home, as Wuhan people are discriminated against" Garden brother, 27-year-old designer before living in Wuchang Pneumonia things were not so serious, I made a ticket to Seoul, Korea for the Spring Festival.
1月21日早晨7点，我在天河机场准备登机，被要求脱掉外套检查体温，没有显示发烧，上飞机后，空姐全部戴上了N95，21号12点，我抵达韩国仁川机场。
At 7 a.m. on January 21, I was about to board the plane at Tianhe Airport. I was asked to take off my coat and check my temperature. I did not show any fever.
到达韩国的武汉旅客被集中到一个出口，排队检查体温并被记录下来，还需要留下即将入住的酒店地址。
Wuhan travellers arriving in South Korea are rounded up at an exit to have their body temperature checked and recorded, along with the hotel address where they will be staying.
韩国海关和机场的工作人员也都全部戴了口罩。
South Korean customs and airport staff are also wearing face masks.
见到预约的地接后，对方说的第一件事情就是武汉的肺炎情况。
Seeing the appointment, the first thing the other side said was the pneumonia situation in Wuhan.
对方告诉我们，韩方对此次疫情非常重视。
The other side told us that the ROK attaches great importance to the epidemic.
等地接把我们送回酒店，马上接到了韩方的旅行社的电话，说最近的韩国旅游全被取消，国外的人不会去中国，中国人也禁止出来。
As soon as we were taken back to the hotel, we received a call from a Korean travel agency saying that all recent South Korean tours had been cancelled, that foreigners would not go to China and that the Chinese would not be allowed to come out.
到了22号早上，我出门又听说有两例武汉旅客被检查出疑似病例，韩国人都戴起了口罩，路边小小的药店全部挤满了中国旅客，口罩所剩无几。
On the morning of the 22nd, I went out and heard of two suspected cases of Wuhan passengers, South Koreans wearing masks, small roadside pharmacies full of Chinese tourists, few masks left.
一群人去吃饭，韩料店里面坐满了中国人，大家的话题都停留在武汉肺炎。
A group of people went to dinner, the Han materials store filled with Chinese people, the topic of all stay in Wuhan pneumonia.
到了23号，武汉宣布封城，一早上我还在想着我起码能回家和家人团聚，不管他们多么不想我回去躺这趟“浑水”，但是终究是要回去的。
On the 23rd, Wuhan declared the city closed, and this morning I was thinking that I could at least go home and reunite with my family, no matter how much they didn't want me to go back to this "muddy water," but it would.
23号下午，我接到通知，航班改签，“现在没有航班去武汉，都绕过武汉飞。
On the afternoon of the 23rd I was informed that the flight had been changed. "There are no flights to Wuhan now.
”我们被安排凌晨到郑州的航班。
"We were scheduled to fly to Zhengzhou in the early morning.
但是到了郑州要住哪，携程也给不出解决方法，“现在每天的情况都有变化，我们只能等。
But where to live in Zhengzhou, Ctrip can not give a solution, "the situation has changed every day, we have to wait.
”24号，武汉封城第二天，武汉在国外看来就像一座瘟疫城。
Wuhan, 24, the day after the closure of the city, Wuhan looked like a plague city abroad.
我看见中国游客在药店里面成箱地买口罩，并且药店里面用中文标识了韩国的k94和k95是一样的。
I saw Chinese tourists buying masks in boxes inside the drugstore, and the drugstores had the same logo in Chinese saying "k94" and "k95" in Korea.
晚上，我再联系携程，对方还是让我们安心等待，他们有一个同事也是武汉的，即将抵达郑州，有了情况会通知我们。
In the evening, I contact Ctrip, the other party or let us at ease wait, they have a colleague is also Wuhan, will arrive in Zhengzhou, when the situation will inform us.
26日，我们被安排上韩国飞往郑州的飞机，武汉的旅客全部被集中坐在飞机尾部，大家都戴着口罩，不允许互相交流。
26, we were arranged to fly to Zhengzhou South Korean aircraft, Wuhan passengers were all concentrated in the rear of the plane, all wearing masks, not allowed to interact with each other.
上飞机前，我们去换登机牌和托运时，韩国人自动戴口罩和面罩，也不愿意与我们多说话，只盼着我们赶紧离开。
Before boarding the plane, we went to change boarding passes and checked in, the Koreans automatically wore masks and masks, and did not want to talk to us much, just waiting for us to leave quickly.
到郑州后，我们不能立刻拿到自己的行李，要进行检测，具体几天能拿到也不清楚。
To Zhengzhou, we can not immediately get their own luggage, to be tested, specific days can be obtained is not clear.
什么时候能解封，什么时候能与家里团圆。
When will it be unsealed and when will we be reunited with our families?
这几天，我已经连续哭了好几场。
I have cried several times in a row these days.
“机动车禁行，后面的生活怎么保障”FEELING，33岁非盈利组织工作人员家住武昌中百路1月17日，腊月23，小年夜，武汉还是一片祥和，单位开年会，路上戴口罩的人很少。
Wuhan is still a peaceful place, with very few people wearing masks on the road, according to the annual meeting of the non-profit-making group.
1月19日，腊月25，我在单位附近的药店去买了15包口罩，此时药店的口罩还很充足。
January 19, 25, I went to the pharmacy near the unit to buy 15 bags of masks, at this point the pharmacy mask is still very adequate.
1月20日，腊月26，此时年轻人慢慢意识到问题的严重性，上班路上已经有人开始戴口罩。
January 20, Lai 26, when the young people slowly realize the seriousness of the problem, on the way to work has started wearing masks.
1月22日，腊月28，打电话给家里外地的亲戚，告诉他们原定于在乐福园的年饭被取消，带着孩子不要回武汉了。
On January 28th, I called my relatives in the city and told them not to go back to Wuhan with my children.
武汉人自嘲的“年货”1月23日，腊月29，武汉封城，一下子大家害怕了，口罩已经成了紧缺品，害怕出门，但还是开车去给父母送了口罩，去给孩子囤了奶粉，买了一堆菜回家。
Wuhan people laugh at their own "New Year" January 23, Wuhan sealing the city, all of a sudden, the mask has become a shortage of goods, afraid to go out, but still drove to give parents a mask, to give the child milk powder, bought a pile of vegetables home.
1月24日，大年三十，武汉封桥，武汉三镇被隔离，我已经不敢出门，那一整天，我都在不停地打电话发信息给身边的亲人朋友，让他们一定不要出门。
On January 24, Wuhan Seal Bridge, Wuhan three towns were isolated, I have been afraid to go out, that day, I have been constantly phoning to send messages to friends and relatives around them, so that they must not go out.
1月25日，大年初一的凌晨，机动车限行，菜场都关门了，大家都不知道后面的生活怎么保证，网上说社区配备了车辆，社区会统计小区情况。
January 25, the first day of the New Year, motor vehicles are restricted, the market closed, we do not know how to guarantee the life behind the network said that the community equipped with vehicles, the community will count the small community.
至今，没人通知。
To date, no notification has been received.
“武汉是一座有板有眼的城市”囧小米，34岁财务家住武汉市江汉区我本人是非常地道的武汉人，出生在汉口商职医院，成长在长江边，从出生到现在基本没有离开过这片土地。
"Wuhan is an organized city." I am a 34-year-old financial resident of Wuhan Jianghan District. I was born in Hankou Commercial Hospital and grew up near the Yangtze River.
眼见武汉这么多年的发展，从自嘲的“脏乱差”到如今能评上文明城市，真的是一步一个脚印，挺不容易。
Seeing Wuhan so many years of development, from self-mocking "dirty mess" to the city can now be evaluated, is really a step by step, it is not easy.
2019年，武汉召开国际级运动赛事——军运会，迎来送走了各国军人运动员，我们都想着武汉是否马上就要成为一个一线城市，对未来几年的发展充满了畅想。
In 2019, Wuhan will hold an international level sports event - the military games, ushered in the departure of military athletes from all over the world, we all wonder whether Wuhan will soon become a first-tier city, full of hope for the next few years.
12月底，我们开始接收到华南海鲜市场不明原因肺炎的相关新闻，但周围所有人并没有予以过多的关注。
At the end of December, we began to receive news of pneumonia in the unexplained seafood market in South China, but not much attention was paid to it from all around us.
直到1月份，表哥没来吃年饭，我才得知他已经持续多天发高烧，呼吸道灼疼，病程初期去中心医院看病，仅开了奥司他韦，医生让回家休息。
It was not until January, when my cousin did not come to dinner, that I learned that he had been suffering from a high fever for many days, burning of the respiratory tract, early treatment at the central hospital, only oseltamivir, the doctor told home to rest.
由于实在不适，在药店又买不到消炎药，我从家里拿出两盒头孢给姨妈，让她带回去。
Unwell and unable to buy anti-inflammatory drugs at the drugstore, I took two boxes of cefta from home to my aunt and asked her to take them back.
当天晚上，表哥因高烧不止，还是到中心医院急诊，当晚拍CT，后期确诊肺炎(非新型冠状病毒肺炎)，目前仍在同济住院治疗。
Later that night, my cousin was admitted to the Central Hospital for emergency treatment due to a high fever. He was diagnosed with pneumonia (non-coronavirus pneumonia) that night and is still hospitalized.
因为过年，公公囤了不少吃的在家里，大概可以吃到大年初十。
Because the New Year, the father-in-law has a lot of food at home, probably can eat until the beginning of the year.
现在小孩在家里，后续需要出去补充一些食物做正餐的，不过还要看到时候市内交通通行情况而定。
Now that the kids are at home, they need to go out later to supplement their meals, depending on the traffic conditions in the city.
我觉得挺不好意思说自己是灾民。
I feel ashamed to say that I am a disaster victim.
在我心目中，武汉是一座有板有眼的城市，我们的医疗不差，教育资源丰富，经济也在快速发展中，缺的不是钱，真正缺的是不会因为犹豫就错过最佳决断时机，更不会因为面子拒绝外来救援物资。
In my mind, Wuhan is an organized city, our health care is not bad, education resources are rich, the economy is also developing rapidly, what is missing is not money, what is really lacking is not hesitant to miss the best decision-making opportunity, not to mention face-saving foreign aid.
“爸妈站岗待命，三天没回家”忘川，23岁职业未透露家住武汉市蔡甸区我是武汉本地人，大学毕业后回到老家，一直在蔡甸工作。
"Mom and Dad stood by and waited three days, didn't return home" Forget 23-year-old occupation I live in Cai Den District, Wuhan City I am a native of Wuhan, after graduation from university, back home, has been working in Cai dian.
1月15号，我放假回到家，直到20号左右才听说这个新型肺炎。
On January 15th, I returned home from my holiday and did not hear of the new pneumonia until around the 20th.
那个时候，大家还不以为意，街上也没有人戴口罩。
At that time, people were not satisfied, no one wearing masks in the streets.
一直到22号，腊月二十八，我们才开始重视，街坊邻居开始购买口罩，并且准备了一些蔬菜。
It was not until the 22nd, on the 28th of December, that we began to pay attention to our neighbors, who started buying masks and preparing some vegetables.
1月23号，武汉宣布“封城”，紧接着，传来了要在我们蔡甸建立“小汤山”医院的消息。
On January 23rd, Wuhan announced the "closure" of the city, followed by news of the establishment of a "Xiaotangshan" hospital in Cai dian.
那个地方离我们这开车不到二十分钟。
It's less than twenty minutes' drive from here.
一开始大家都很震惊，没想到情况这么严重，得知一些大医院的就诊情况后，觉得这很有必要，也有些安心，至少能够保障就医。
At the beginning, we were shocked, did not expect that the situation is so serious, some of the major hospitals after learning that this is necessary, some peace of mind, at least to ensure access to health care.
我的父母都是从事医疗工作的，经常会听到医院床位不够、仪器缺失的消息，所以大家都知道建立这个医院确实很紧急。
My parents, both medical workers, often heard about the shortage of hospital beds and the lack of equipment, so everyone knew it was urgent to build the hospital.
这些天，我父母都在医院值班，三天就回来一趟家，其他时候都是在医院专门安排的休息区过夜。
These days, my parents are on duty at the hospital, coming back home in three days and spending the rest of the night in specially arranged rest areas of the hospital.
在小地方的医院，出现了疑似新型肺炎的患者一律要送至大医院就医。
In small local hospitals, all patients with suspected new pneumonia have to be taken to the main hospital.
父母随时待命，父亲负责接诊，母亲负责跟护士相关的所有事宜。
Parents are on call, fathers are attending and mothers are responsible for all matters relating to nurses.
除夕夜当晚，父母也没有回来。
My parents didn't come back on New Year's Eve.
我一个人在家做饭，家里有蔬菜，一个人吃完年夜饭，打了一会儿游戏，然后看看书，睡觉。
I cook at home alone, there are vegetables at home, a person to eat the New Year's Eve dinner, played a few games, then read a book, sleep.
外面满冷清的，但除夕夜那晚还是有人放烟花，希望这一切能早点过去。
Outside the cold, but New Year's Eve night or someone set off fireworks, hope that all this can be over earlier.
征  集全民故事计划将持续关注这次疫情，不仅仅是武汉。
The National Story Project will continue to focus on the epidemic, not just Wuhan.
我们将持续关注湖北其他地区普通人正在面临的生活。
We will continue to focus on the lives that ordinary people in other parts of Hubei are facing.
如果你身在湖北，我们#向你征集#你此刻的生活日常，你可以在后台分享给我们，讲述你的经历。
If you are in Hubei, we collect from you # # Your life at this moment is everyday, you can share with us backstage, tell your experience.
我们将在后期，陆续发布。
We'll be releasing it later.
全民故事计划将在下一期推出：身在黄冈：此刻的我在经历着什么。
The National Story Project will be released in the next issue: Being in Huanggang: What am I experiencing right now?
撰文 | 李小婧编辑| 蒲末释▼全民故事计划正在寻找每一个有故事的人 讲出你在乎的故事，投递给 tougao@quanmingushi.com故事一经发布，即奉上千字300元-1000元的稿酬请您支持一下全民故事计划，点击在看。
Why don't you tell everyone about the story you care about, and tell it to Dougao @ quickingush.com, or pay you $300 to $1,000 for thousands of words, as soon as the story is released.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
身在武汉：此刻的我在经历着什么。
Being in Wuhan: What am I experiencing at this moment?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "全民故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "身在武汉：此刻的我在经历着什么";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们不想失去生活的城市。
var msg _ desc = & quot; We don't want to lose our city of life.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="全民故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
