湖北一亿只亟需饲料的蛋鸡。
One hundred million egg chickens in Hubei in urgent need of feed.
新京报                      。
Beijing News.
新京报。
Beijing News.
关键时刻还看新京报！这里有最生猛的调查报道，这里有朋友圈最重磅的深度文章。
Key moment to see the Beijing News! Here are the most violent investigation reports, here are the most weighty in-depth articles in the circle of friends.
只提供有价值的新闻，只负责挖掘真相！慧眼看中国，我们就是你的4D眼镜。
Only provide valuable news, only responsible for digging the truth! Look at China, we are your 4D glasses.
。
.
禽蛋产量位居全国第六的湖北省，养殖产业正遭受严峻考验。
Hubei province, the sixth largest producer of poultry eggs in China, is undergoing a severe test of its breeding industry.
全文3187字，阅读约需6分钟“新洲区大概有1000万只蛋鸡，现在每天销量只有一二十万。
It takes about 6 minutes to read. "There are about 10 million hens in New Zhouzhou. Now they sell only 1.2 million eggs a day.
有些养殖户的饲料只剩两三天了。
Some farmers have only two or three days left to feed.
”武汉市新洲区家禽业协会会长马新辉说，“我自己的饲料也就只能再撑十天半个月。
"My own feed will last only another half a month," said Ma Xinhui, head of the Wuhan Xinzhou poultry association.
”有养殖户接到记者采访电话后匆匆聊几句就挂断，“不好意思我在等一个饲料厂电话。
"There is a reporter to interview the phone after a few hurriedly hung up," I'm sorry I'm waiting for a feed factory phone.
”湖北省家禽业协会秘书处刘云涛表示，不仅在武汉，湖北各地养殖户普遍都遇到类似困难。
Liu Yuntao, the secretary of the Hubei poultry association, said similar difficulties were common not only in Wuhan but also in Hubei farmers.
1月28日，湖北省家禽业协会分别向两家国企发出紧急求援函，希望两家国企对口支援湖北省18000吨玉米和12000吨豆粕，帮助渡过难关。
On January 28, the Hubei poultry association sent an urgent appeal to two state-owned enterprises to help them tide over the difficulties by matching 18,000 tons of corn and 12,000 tons of soybean meal in Hubei Province.
禽蛋产量位居全国第六的湖北省，养殖产业正遭受严峻考验。
Hubei province, the sixth largest producer of poultry eggs in China, is undergoing a severe test of its breeding industry.
湖北省农业农村厅畜牧兽医处处长何年华告诉记者，1月31日湖北省新型肺炎防控指挥部已经下文，要求保障饲料、兽药、肉蛋奶和蔬菜的运输畅通，但“落实可能会有个过程”。
The head of the animal husbandry and veterinary department in Hubei Province told reporters on January 31 that the new command for the prevention and control of pneumonia in Hubei Province had ordered the transportation of feed, veterinary drugs, meat and egg milk and vegetables to be kept open, but "there may be a process of implementation."
━━━━━养殖户马上断粮，10万只蛋鸡损失将达四百万马新辉的养殖场中有15万只蛋鸡，每天产蛋量也有十几万。
Cultivated farmers will lose about 100,000 eggs. There are 150,000 hens in a farm that will lose four million Ma Xinhui, and there are tens of thousands of eggs a day.
他的鸡蛋销往武汉的商超，每天都由商超的运输车辆前来拖运货物，“我个人暂时不愁销路，有时还能帮忙捎带一点。
He sells his eggs to Shanchao in Wuhan, where he is hauled every day by commercial supercargo vehicles. "I personally am not worried about a market, and sometimes I can help carry a little.
”同在新洲区设有养殖场的梅新旺则没这么幸运。
Mei Xinwang, who also owns a farm in Xinzhou, wasn't so lucky.
之前他的蛋鸡销往全国多个省份，现在则“找不到车子，也没人接货，过年来就没出过货”。
His hens, previously sold to provinces across the country, are "unable to find cars, no one to pick up goods, the past year has not been shipped."
养殖场中10万只蛋鸡每天产量达200多箱，每箱360枚，已经快把他的仓库堆满了，“顶多两三天就满了。
The production of 100,000 hens per day on farms of more than 200 cartons, 360 a case, has nearly filled his depot, "a maximum of two or three days.
”马新辉介绍，“现在能走的车很少，只有‘菜篮子’的车可以走，多余产能运不出去。
"There are very few cars left, only the 'basket' cars can go, and there is no spare capacity to get out," Ma said.
”而作为禽蛋大省，湖北的鸡蛋销往全国各地，“估计70%是外销的。
In Hubei province, where eggs are sold throughout the country, "an estimated 70 percent are exported.
”但在防疫形势下，湖北多地的交通管制措施让运输车寸步难行，“从新洲到武汉市区都很困难。
However, traffic control measures in many parts of Hubei Province made it difficult for transport vehicles to move, "from Xinzhou to Wuhan City.
”▲湖北省家禽业协会请求紧急支援。
"The Hubei poultry association asked for emergency help.
图片来自于网络湖北省农业农村厅网站文章称，湖北常年养殖蛋鸡约1.7亿只，是湖北省畜牧业中仅次于生猪养殖的主导产业，禽蛋产量居全国第六位。
Hubei is the leading animal husbandry industry in Hubei Province, ranking sixth in the country in terms of egg production, according to an article on the website of Hubei Agricultural and Rural Department.
湖北省统计局公布的相关数据显示，2018年湖北省禽蛋产量达171.53万吨，肉类总产量达430.95万吨，畜牧业生产经营人员约38万人。
Statistics released by the Hubei Provincial Bureau of Statistics show that in 2018, the output of poultry eggs in Hubei Province reached 1,715,300 tons, with a total meat output of 4,309,500 tons and about 380,000 livestock workers.
“保守估计也有1.2亿只蛋鸡，产蛋率按90%算，每天都生产超过1亿只蛋。
"There are also a conservative estimate of 120 million hens, which produce more than 100 million eggs a day at 90 per cent.
”湖北省农业科学院畜牧兽医研究所研究员杜金平说，“还有相当一部分蛋鸡是之前用作扶贫的，贫困户的抗风险能力更小。
Du Jinping, a researcher at the Institute of Animal and Veterinary Medicine at the Hubei Academy of Agricultural Sciences, said: "A significant proportion of the chickens used to help the poor are less risk-resistant.
”鸡蛋卖不出去或许还可暂时储存着，杜金平和多位养殖户告诉记者，以目前的天气条件，在仓库中也还可以存放7天至14天。
Eggs may not be sold for a while, and Dukin Ping and several farmers told reporters that under current weather conditions they could also be kept in warehouses for seven to 14 days.
更为紧迫的困难是饲料不足。
A more pressing difficulty is the shortage of fodder.
梅新旺昨天自己想办法拉了一批饲料进来，但也“吃不了两天，马上就断粮了。
Mei Xinwang yesterday tried to pull a batch of feed in, but also "do not eat two days, immediately out of food."
”梅新旺说，每只鸡从鸡苗养到下蛋，要花费约40元成本，10万只蛋鸡一旦饿死，“损失就是四百万，所有投入都打了水漂。
'It costs about 40 yuan per chicken to lay eggs, 'says Ms. Mei.' When 100,000 chickens starve to death, 'the loss is four million dollars, and all the input goes down the drain.
”湖北省家禽业协会秘书处刘云涛告诉记者，除了鸡蛋出售、玉米、豆粕等饲料紧缺等困难，还有作为蛋鸡、肉鸡生产原料的鸡苗上路难，蛋托等包装物难进货，鸡粪拖运难等问题。
Liu Yuntao, the secretariat of the Hubei poultry industry association, told reporters that in addition to egg sales, corn, soybean meal and other feed shortages, there are chicken seedlings as raw materials for egg chicken, chicken production difficulties on the road, egg butts and other difficult packaging materials, chicken manure hauling difficult problems.
据马新辉所知，有两家鸡苗厂家，每天生产鸡苗分别有13万只和3万只，“运不出去就只能活埋。
According to Ma Xinhui, there are two chicken seedlings manufacturers, each producing 130,000 and 30,000 chickens per day.
”杜金平介绍，有鸡苗厂家发了照片已经埋了两批共10万只鸡苗，“现在鸡苗卖到5块5到7块每只，这一埋就是几十万的损失。
Du said that producers of chicken seedlings had sent out photos and buried two batches of 100,000 chicken seedlings. "Now the chickens sell for five to seven dollars each, and the burial is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars.
”目前鸡苗对于蛋鸡养殖暂时没有影响，但马新辉估计，如果现在鸡苗不能跟上，三个月后对鸡蛋产量的影响会比较大。
"The chicken seedlings have no immediate impact on egg production, but Ma estimates that if the chicken does not catch up now, the impact on egg production will be greater in three months.
▲种禽场掩埋鸡苗和孵化过程中的废弃蛋。
Seed poultry farms buried chicken seedlings and hatching process of discarded eggs.
受访者供图━━━━━省内省外道路不畅，饲料和农产品运输困难刘云涛称，造成这些问题的一个主要原因在于道路不畅。
2007-9-25 09: 48 Road obstruction outside the province and difficulties in transporting fodder and agricultural products, Liu Yuntao said one of the main reasons for these problems was poor roads.
其一是湖北省内部道路难以畅通。
First, internal roads in Hubei Province are difficult to smooth.
从武汉市1月23日关闭离汉通道以来，湖北各地相继推出类似的交通管制措施，甚至城市内部道路也会有所限制。
Since Wuhan closed the Han Passage on January 23, Hubei has introduced similar traffic control measures, and even the city's internal roads will be limited.
杜金平介绍，例如鸡苗就会被视作不允许上路的“活禽”，“在业内，刚出壳的鸡苗鸭苗被视作‘生产原料’，送去屠宰的成鸡才叫‘活禽’。
Du said chicken seedlings, for example, would be considered "live poultry" not allowed on the road. "In the industry, fresh-shelled chicken and duck seedlings are treated as' raw materials' and adult chickens sent to be slaughtered are called 'live birds'.
”有养殖户了解到，只要去当地畜牧部门办理通行证，货物运输就没有问题。
Farm farmers have learned that as long as they go to the local livestock sector for permits, there is no problem with the transport of goods.
但刘云涛接到养殖户的反映称：“前一天车辆运输证明还可开，第二天开不了，告知货车可以通行，不需要证明，事实上没有证明寸步难行。
However, Liu Yuntao received feedback from farmers: "The previous day the vehicle transport certificate can be opened, the next day can not be opened, informed trucks can pass, do not need proof, in fact no proof that no step.
”梅新旺就遇到了这样的情况。
That is what happened to Mei Xinwang.
因为养殖场缺粮，1月31日他准备自己跑到饲料厂拉饲料，在道路卡点被拦下。
Due to the shortage of food on the farm, on 31 January he prepared to run himself to the feed factory to pull feed and was stopped at the checkpoint.
他打电话向市长热线、湖北省新型肺炎防控指挥部、湖北省公安厅多个部门反映情况。
He called the mayor's hotline, the Hubei New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command, Hubei Province Public Security Department to reflect the situation.
大约两小时左右，经过多个部门协调，他的车辆终于可以放行，拉回了救急的饲料。
After about two hours of co-ordination by various departments, his vehicle was finally released and emergency feed was withdrawn.
然而，2月1日他还想去拉饲料时，又一次被拦下了。
However, he was stopped again on 1 February when he was trying to pull the fodder.
“即使饲料厂、鸡苗厂这里能出去，可能还会碰到下不去高速、进不去村里。
"Even if the feed factory, chicken plant here can go out, may also encounter the next not to go high speed, access to the village.
”杜金平说。
'he said.
其二是湖北省与外界交通也出现很多麻烦。
The second is that Hubei province and the outside world traffic also appear many troubles.
刘云涛表示，有很多外地司机不愿来湖北，“回去后需隔离14天。
Liu said many non-resident drivers were reluctant to come to Hubei, "to go back to quarantine for 14 days.
”杜金平称，就算饲料运进来了，再想出去，“可能会被另一条政策管着。
Even if the feed comes in and wants to go out, 'it could be governed by another policy,' says Mr. Dukin.
车出不去、人出不去，就不愿意来了。
If you can't get out of the car or get out, you won't come.
”饲料也经由水路运输。
Feed is also transported by water.
刘云涛称，目前码头停工，装卸货物困难。
Liu Yuntao said that the terminal is currently closed, loading and unloading difficulties.
杜金平也了解到，有些大宗饲料“在长江口堵住了，或在码头不让下。
Du also learned that some of the bulk feed was "blocked at the mouth of the Yangtze River or not allowed on the docks."
”而梅新旺联系的很多饲料厂家，甚至直接因为防疫形势而停工了，“当地政府不允许开工。
Many of the feedstuff factories Mei Xinwang contacted, even stopped working because of the epidemic situation, "said the local government.
”杜金平建议，家禽养殖户可以采用生产上的“强制换羽”技术，短期内减少饲料的消耗，“但这是没有办法的办法，对于养殖户来说损失也很大。
Du suggested that poultry farmers could adopt production "forced feather-shifting" techniques to reduce feed consumption in the short term, "but there is no alternative and the losses for farmers are substantial."
”“每当有疫情，家禽业都是首当其冲受到冲击，被限制交易和流通，这对养殖非常不利。
"Every time there is an outbreak, the poultry industry is the first to be hit by restrictions on trading and circulation, which is very bad for farming."
”杜金平说。
'he said.
━━━━━湖北省农业农村厅：总指挥部已下文保障运输1月30日，农业农村部、交通运输部和公安部联合发文，要求各地“严格执行‘绿色通道’制度”，“确保鲜活农产品运输畅通”；“保障‘菜篮子’产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序。
The Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Public Security jointly issued a letter on January 30 asking all localities to strictly implement the "Green Channel" system and ensure smooth transportation of fresh farm products, and to ensure the normal flow of vegetable basket products and agricultural means of production.
”实际上，在中央部委发文之前，1月27日，湖北省农业农村厅即已发文，要求“切实畅通蔬菜、饲料等急需物资调运渠道”。
In fact, before the central ministry sent the letter, on January 27, the Hubei Provincial Agricultural and Rural Bureau had issued a letter demanding "unimpeded channels for the conveyance of urgently needed vegetables, feed and other materials."
一张盖有湖北省养猪行业协会公章的“紧急反映报告”称，上述湖北省农业农村厅文件“是我们全省养殖企业的福音！”但在具体实施过程中，“仍然面临着多部门管理、责任不清、申请备案政策变动等诸多困难。
An "emergency response report" with the official seal of the Hubei Pig Industry Association said the document "is the gospel of our province's farming enterprises." But in the process of implementation, "there are still many difficulties such as multi-department management, unclear responsibilities and changes in filing policy."
”马新辉反映，“政策都是好政策，但是下面现在还‘动’不了。
"Policies are good policies, but they can't be moved now," Ma said.
”杜金平表示，武汉市在这方面管理最为严格，但武汉市以外，“饲料、鸡蛋差不多可以‘动’了，有些区县变通一点，可以办通行证，有的地方则是农业畜牧部门出面协调。
Mr Du said Wuhan was the city most tightly regulated in this regard, but outside Wuhan, "feed and eggs are almost mobile" and some districts and counties are flexible enough to get permits, while others are coordinated by the agriculture and livestock sector.
”他还了解到，一批运往洪湖市的鸡苗已经送达。
He also learned that a shipment of chicken seedlings destined for Honghu had arrived.
马新辉和杜金平都理解目前防疫形势下，政府需要考虑各方面平衡。
Ma Xinhui and Dukin Ping both understand that the current epidemic situation, the Government needs to consider all aspects of balance.
“有时也想得通，各地、各行各业损失都很大，又不是你养殖户一家的事。
"Sometimes it also makes sense, everywhere, all walks of life losses are very large, but you do not breed a family thing.
”马新辉说。
"said Ma.
“湖北武汉是疫病的中心，人为大，也可以理解。
"Wuhan, Hubei Province, is the epicentre of the epidemic.
”杜金平说，“但人也要吃东西吧？希望在适当的时候可以考虑一下这些问题。
'But people do want to eat, don't they? 'he said, hoping to consider them in due course.
”2月1日，武汉市农业农村局畜牧兽医处工作人员向记者介绍，这几天已经协调了多起养殖户运输问题，销售问题也在和商务部门联系协调，同时正在向财政部门申请相关补贴，考虑补偿养殖户、种禽场的损失。
On February 1, staff of the Livestock and Veterinary Bureau of Wuhan Agricultural and Rural Bureau told reporters that several issues of farm transport had been coordinated over the past few days and that marketing issues were being coordinated with commercial departments.
不过，该工作人员表示，目前只是帮助协调解决具体养殖户反映的具体困难，养殖业的困难尚没有整体性解决。
However, the staff member indicated that only the specific difficulties reported by individual farmers were being addressed in a coordinated manner and that the difficulties of aquaculture had not been addressed in a holistic manner.
湖北省农业农村厅畜牧兽医处处长何年华告诉记者，1月31日湖北省新型肺炎防控指挥部已经下文，要求保障饲料、兽药、肉蛋奶和蔬菜的运输畅通。
On January 31, the new command for the prevention and control of pneumonia in Hubei Province has set out below to guarantee the smooth transportation of fodder, veterinary drugs, meat and egg milk and vegetables.
“之前农业部门下的通知，在防疫形势下，可能执行会不到位。
"Previous notifications under the agriculture sector may not be in place due to the epidemiological situation.
昨天省防总已经下文，今天有些地方已经陆续开始通行了，落实可能会有个过程。
Yesterday the provincial general has been below, today some places have begun to pass, the implementation may have a process.
”何年华说。
"said Love.
目前鸡苗仍被视为“活禽”，和野生动物、危险品一起归为不准上路的管制货品。
At present, chicken seedlings are still regarded as "live poultry", along with wild animals and dangerous goods classified as non-road-controlled goods.
何年华表示，现在新型肺炎的传染源、传染途径还没有搞清楚，“采取比较严厉的措施也没错。
He said that now the source of infection of the new pneumonia, the route of infection has not been clear, "to take more severe measures is also correct.
”相应地，作为“肉类”来源的生猪、活禽等牲畜，何年华表示目前运输到屠宰场的途径也不是很畅通。
In response, animals such as pigs and live poultry, which are the source of "meat," show that the current route to the slaughterhouse is not always clear.
“目前我们正在做工作，也许等待形势稍微稳定一点再放松这方面管制。
"Right now we're working on it and maybe we can wait for a little bit of stability before we relax."
”何年华说，“我们的解决措施都是动态的，每天都在跟进最新的变化。
"Our solutions are dynamic, keeping abreast of the latest changes on a daily basis.
”新京报记者 张一川编辑 唐峥 校对 薛京宁点击下图进入"全国新型冠状病毒感染肺炎实时地图"值班编辑 吾彦祖 花木南中疾控独家回应：“人传人”早有推论，保守下结论有原因钟南山：不会因春运返程出现大传染北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充本文未经新京报书面授权不得转载使用欢迎朋友圈分享。
Zheng Zheng, editor of the Beijing News, proofread by Zhang Jingchuan, entered and checked by Xue Jingning. China's new coronavirus-infected pneumonia has received an exclusive response from Zhongzhong County, the editor-in-charge.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北一亿只亟需饲料的蛋鸡。
One hundred million egg chickens in Hubei in urgent need of feed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "新京报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with Beijing News;
var msg_title = "湖北一亿只亟需饲料的蛋鸡";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "湖北常年养殖蛋鸡约1.7亿只，是湖北省畜牧业中仅次于生猪养殖的主导产业，禽蛋产量居全国第六位。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Hubei has about 170 million egg chickens, the second largest animal husbandry industry in Hubei province after pig farming, and the sixth highest in the country.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '钟南山：不会因春运返程出现大传染',。
Zhong Nan Shan: Not at least with AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '钟南山：不会因春运返程出现大传染',。
Zhong Nan Shan: Not at least with AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充',。
Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital is being rehabilitated and, if necessary, replenished with & apos;.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充',。
Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital is being rehabilitated and, if necessary, replenished with & apos;.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="新京报";。
var title = & quot; New Beijing News & quot;;
