九个武汉普通人家的别样除夕 | 深网。
Rhetoric New Year's Eve at nine ordinary Wuhan homes.
薛芳孙宏超相欣等。
Xue Fang Sun Xin Xiang Xin etc.
腾讯深网                      。
Tencent deep net.
腾讯深网。
Tencent deep net.
腾讯新闻出品栏目，《深网》是一档原创深度报道栏目，挖掘科技和TMT领域热门公司、事件和人物中的隐秘故事，探究背后的深层逻辑。
Tencent News columns, "Deep Web" is an original in-depth reporting column, mining technology and TMT hot companies, events and people among the secret story, explore the underlying logic.
。
.
作者 | 薛芳 孙宏超 相欣 安然 马关夏 李越编辑 | 康晓出品｜深网·腾讯小满工作室欢迎下载腾讯新闻APP，阅读更多优质资讯平平安安就是年。
Xue Fang Xue Xiang Xue Xue Xiang Xue Enron Ma Guan Xia Li Yueh Edit & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
突袭而至的新病毒能阻止很多中国人在这个春节里团聚，但没有什么能阻断中国人心里永远不会割舍的亲情。
The new virus from the raid could prevent many Chinese from getting together for the Spring Festival, but nothing can stop the Chinese from ever giving up in their hearts.
在大年三十那些或简单或粗糙或丰盛的普通的年夜饭里，长出了这个民族最坚定的信念和力量，我们的希望就在这里，在这些平凡的万家灯火里。
In the New Year's Eve those simple or rough or sumptuous ordinary dinner, the nation's strongest faith and strength, our hope is here, in these ordinary lights.
1讲述者：林珊坐标：汉阳鹦鹉大道一月十九日，高铁从北京驶向武汉。
Narrator: Lin Shan coordinates: Hanyang parrot Boulevard January 19, high-speed rail from Beijing to Wuhan.
一路行程非常顺利，没有拥挤，井然有序。
The trip was smooth, uncrowded and orderly.
一路上的心情和往日回家并没有太大区别，时不时手机里会收到朋友的信息——“你回武汉了吗？”“记得戴口罩”…车厢里播报着：还有十分钟就要到站了，终点站武汉。
The mood on the way home is not so different from that of the old days. Every once in a while, you get a message from a friend on the phone - "Have you been back to Wuhan?" "Remember to wear a mask".
大家纷纷开始骚动起来，收拾行李，穿上外套，然后是戴上口罩。
People began to stir, pack their bags, put on their jackets, and then put on masks.
我坐在第5排，车厢里听到或北或南的口音，我回头一望，五颜六色的口罩都戴起来了——泡沫口罩、棉布口罩、医用口罩、普通口罩、时尚口罩……抵达武汉，妈妈来接我。
I sat in Row 5 and heard a North or South accent in the car. I looked back and all the colorful masks were on - foam mask, cotton mask, medical mask, ordinary mask, fashion mask... arrived in Wuhan, mother to pick me up.
在春运大潮里，出站口围堵了接亲人的、拉客的各种人群。
In the spring traffic tide, the exit blocked the reception of relatives, soliciting various groups of people.
出了站，在一片深色的冬季服装里，见到我妈穿着一件豆沙色的棉袄小跑着向我迎过来，我第一反应是：生气。
Out of the station, in a dark winter dress, I saw my mother running toward me in a bean-colored cotton-padded jacket. My first reaction was: angry.
“不是说好了戴口罩吗？”事实上，来接人的几乎都没戴。
"Didn't you say you were wearing a mask?" In fact, almost no one came to pick you up.
迎面而来的人潮大家赤面相迎。
The oncoming crowd greeted each other with their faces red.
从我家到武汉站地铁50分钟车程，一路上不堵车，生活规划便利。
From my home to Wuhan Railway Station 50 minutes by train, not traffic jam, life planning convenience.
但敏感的我想着这一路都是感染潜在区域，心里忍不住紧张。
But sensitive I think this all the way is infect the potential area, the heart cannot help but be nervous.
我问：前阵子微信沟通，不说武汉都还戴口罩的吗？我妈似乎也感到委屈，第一阵传出这事，大家其实是重视的。
I asked: a few days ago micro-letter communication, do not say Wuhan are still wearing masks? My mother seems to feel aggrieved, the first broadcast of this matter, everyone is really attached to it.
翻看聊天记录：2019年12月31日我妈：回来看地铁上好多戴口罩的我爸：要防，要重视，但不要惊慌、不要害怕，认真对待我：少坐地铁了，开车吧我爸：这个主意好，点赞2020年1月1日武汉中心医院辟谣SARS系谣言！此后，地铁戴口罩这事慢慢不了了之。
: My Mom: Come back to see a lot of my dad wearing masks on the subway. Watch out, pay attention, but don't be alarmed, don't be afraid to take me seriously: Take less subway, drive my dad: Good idea!
时间回到一月十九日，晚十一点，和妈妈外出回家的路上，我脑子里在想两件事：1、加强爸妈重视度；2、买口罩。
On my way home with my mother on the 19th of January, I had two things on my mind: 1) Strengthening my parents' awareness; 2) Buying masks.
医药箱里，家里已经备上了一整盒口罩，用去了一半。
In the medicine chest, the family has a whole box of masks, used half.
基本储备是有的，但过年出街多，我想多备一些吧。
There is a basic reserve, but the New Year out more, I would like to prepare more.
一月二十日，小区口药店，口罩被放在门口最显眼的位置，10个一包的口罩，20元一包。
January 20, the community mouth pharmacy, the mask was placed in front of the most prominent position, 10 packs of masks, 20 yuan a pack.
大家排队将信将疑地买药，消炎的、治感冒的……从北京寄的快递到家了，今年给家里置办的年货里，有一台人工智能小音箱，本想是给爸妈带回些小乐趣，没想后来却阴差阳错起到了别的作用。
People queuing up to buy medicine, anti-inflammatory, cold... from Beijing express home, this year's home purchase of the New Year's goods, there was a small artificial intelligence speakers, intended to bring my parents a little fun, did not think later but the error played a role.
一月二十一日，距离年夜饭还有3天时间。
January 21st, three days before New Year's Eve dinner.
步行去外婆家吃饭，亲戚们对疫情的感知都在初级阶段。
Walking to Grandmother's home, relatives' perception of the epidemic is in its early stages.
手机里，越来越多的区域开始出现疑似病例，此时此刻大脑对数据似乎已经麻痹。
More and more areas of the cell phone are beginning to appear suspicious, and the brain seems paralyzed by the moment.
电视里，各电视台滚动播放的是为春节准备的各色宣传和综艺节目。
On television, TV stations are rolling out a variety of publicity and variety shows for the Spring Festival.
拿出小音箱，开始实时播报关于武汉的新闻：新型冠状病毒新增病理、各地情况、专家观点、医院方案等信息大量涌来，爸妈也开始重视了。
Taking out the small speakers, began to broadcast real-time news about Wuhan: new coronavirus new pathology, local conditions, expert views, hospital plans and other information poured in, parents also began to pay attention to.
但年夜饭将近，该如何和全家上下40多位家族成员一一解释呢？按照家里的安排，一天在爸爸家族这边吃，一天在妈妈家族这边吃。
But as New Year's Eve approached, how was it to be explained to the more than 40 members of the family, who, according to the family arrangements, ate one day on the father's side and one day on the mother's side.
武汉三镇，我家在汉阳，姐姐家在武昌，还有别的亲戚在汉口。
Wuhan three towns, my home in Hanyang, my sister's home in Wuchang, there are other relatives in Hankou.
如果一家人团聚，大家从三镇赶来，一路上的感染可能性不可估量。
If the family reunites and everyone arrives from the three towns, the risk of infection along the way is immeasurable.
只能靠同辈的力量去推动长辈了。
Only peer-to-peer power to promote the elderly.
“姐，要不取消年夜饭吧。
"Do not cancel the New Year's Eve meal, sister.
”“我都可以，主要是你爸妈和我爸妈。
"" I can do it all, mainly your parents and my parents.
”“我去跟我爸妈说，你也做下你爸妈的工作。
"I'm going to tell my parents you're going to work for your parents, too.
”一天的时间里，通过电话把年饭全部取消，大家纷纷在家里自行隔离。
Over the course of the day, the Lunar New Year dinner was cancelled entirely by telephone, and everyone was isolated at home.
一月二十二日，新闻继续，市里领导接受央视记者采访，我们都期盼着能听到一些鼓励市民的话。
January 22, news continued, the city's leadership to CCTV reporters, we are looking forward to hearing some encouraging words.
但这不重要，官方公布疫情数据还在上升。
But that's not important. Official numbers are still rising.
“家里有远房亲戚已经去世了，不知道统计了没。
"I don't know if any of my distant relatives have died.
”大家远程谈论着这些，微信群里，各种信息来来回回，新闻端的一头不断更新着新的数据、新的区域、新的专家观点、新的民间故事；另一头各类花样辟谣或谣言字眼随之闪烁。
There was a long talk of it, messages coming and going, new data, new regions, new expert opinions, new folklore on the end of the news, and a flashing disinformation or rumour on the other.
家庭群里，大家转发着各自觉得重要的视频、截图、新闻消息。
In the family group, everyone relays videos, screenshots, news stories that they think are important.
爸妈断断续续地、踉踉跄跄地跟随着信息的大流，希望能度过这一关，也试图能帮助家人。
Mom and Dad stumbled off and on, following the flow of information, hoping to get through it and trying to help their families.
时不时看到一则新闻不自觉的叫出声来。
From time to time he sees a piece of news blaring out unconsciously.
“只戴口罩不行，特殊情况下还得护目镜。
Only wear masks, and goggles under special circumstances.
”“口罩不能戴反了。
"" Masks must not be put on backwards.
”“也可能没有症状，不发烧。
'Or you may have no symptoms and no fever.
”……不出门，不知道外面什么情况。
"Don't go out, don't know what's going on outside.
出门，是为了“抢购”。
Go out, be in order to "rush buy".
为了春节家里之前准备了一些食材，但过年还得一段日子，得买些菜。
In order to prepare some food before Spring Festival at home, but the New Year will have to some days, to buy some food.
“卤菜家里有，菜薹、包菜、榨菜、土豆、面条、包子、馒头……能存放的得多买一些……”出门前开始列清单，但没想到了菜市场，已是另一翻天地。
"Halogen family, bolting, cabbage, lettuce, potatoes, noodles, steamed bread... can store more to buy some..." Start the list before going out, but did not expect the Halluca market, is another world.
菜摊上可买的已零零星星，人潮涌动，而禽类降价也卖不出去。
Scraps of food were available at vegetable stalls, crowds were surging, and poultry prices could not be sold.
一月二十三日凌晨，武汉宣布“封城”。
In the early morning of January 23, Wuhan declared the city closed.
“早知道就不让你回家过年了。
"I didn't let you go home for the New Year.
”“不知道什么时候能回北京上班了。
"" I don't know when I'll be back in Beijing.
”……“武汉上空要喷洒消毒药了！”“现在辟谣了。
"...".. "..".. ".." "It's going to be sprayed over Wuhan!"
”……春节来了吗？一月二十四日清晨，我妈一声令下，“快起来吃饭，增强体质！”大家都抖擞了精神，这一天一大早电视机就开着，“换成综艺频道吧”，今天我家没有滚播新闻，爸妈想切换回过年的心情。
In the early morning of January 24, my mother gave the order to "get up and eat and build a strong body!" Everyone was so energetic that the TV set was on early that morning.
电视里，鼓舞节目、明星游戏十分热闹，看着节目，大家表情严肃。
On TV, inspirational program, star game is very lively, watch the program, everybody looks serious.
“社区今天什么情况？”“我们现在还没有收到疫情相关的广播或者通知。
"What's happening in the community today?" "We haven't received any broadcasts or announcements about the outbreak.
”电梯里只有一则“温馨提示”，是关于电梯等公共设施的消毒处理，落款1月21日。
The elevator had only one "warm tip" about the disinfection of public facilities, such as elevators, which ended on January 21.
晚6点，三口之家的晚饭朴素而简单，主食饺子、菜薹加一碗藕汤。
6 p.m., the family of three simple and simple dinner, staple food dumplings, bolting and a bowl of lotus root soup.
饭后，大家都要吃两颗“糖蒜”，这种又甜又咸的食物，在平日是生活调剂，此时成为妈妈的一副秘方。
After dinner, everyone should eat two "sugar garlic", this sweet and salty food, in the weekday is a seasoning, at this time become a mother's secret recipe.
“每天要吃，杀毒杀菌，增强体质。
"Every day to eat, antiseptic, enhance physical fitness.
”一家三口也达成一致——“能吃饱就好，别大鱼大肉”“得省着吃”……晚8点，和往年一样，春晚开始了，鼠年即将到来。
The family agreed - "Eat well, don't eat too much." "Eat sparingly..." As usual, the Spring Festival Evening began and the Year of the Rat approached.
2讲述者：詹芃坐标：汉口解放大道1月24日早上八点多，用医用酒精把卧室都擦了一遍后，我准备收拾一下去中百超市时买一些生活用品。
Ariel's Alert (Jan. 24) 1 Ariel's way () at eight o'clock in the morning her bedroom is cleaned with medical alcohol, so that when she is ready to go to the middle hundred she will buy her things.
现在武汉的超市除了中百超市和武商每天10:00-17:00还开门外，其他商超基本关门了。
Wuhan supermarkets are now closed except for the 100 supermarkets and the Wu merchants, who are still open from 10: 00 to 17: 00 every day.
昨天出去啥都没买到，今天去买些生活用品，有朋友说，中百超市和武商可以买到日常的用品和吃的，但口罩是脱销了。
Yesterday, I went out to buy nothing. Today, I went to buy some daily necessities. Some friends said that Zhong100 supermarkets and military merchants could buy daily necessities and food, but the masks were sold out.
三十这天武汉暂时关闭离汉通道的第二天，已经没有了刚听到“封城”消息时那么焦虑了。
Wuhan on the 30th day of the temporary closure of the Han corridor, has not just heard the "closure" of the news so anxious.
当天接到武汉关闭离汉通道消息时，我正在收拾年货准备回阳新看父母，儿子还在收拾自己的作业本和要看的书。
Wuhan received the news of the closure of the Han Channel, I was collecting New Year goods to go back to Yangxin to see their parents, son is still cleaning their own homework and to read books.
听到‘封城’消息后，当时脑子一懵，完全不知道自己要干什么。
After hearing the news of the "closed city," the brain at that time Meng, completely do not know what to do.
“妈妈，走吧，我收拾好了”，12岁的儿子一句话，让我从震惊中缓了过来。
"Mom, come on, I'm ready," my 12-year-old son said, recovering from the shock.
“不去了，现在出不去了，打个电话跟爹爹（外公）和佳佳（外婆）打个电话拜年吧”。
"No, I can't get out now. Call Dad (Grandpa) and Jia Jia (Grandma) and pay a New Year call."
我自己有车，当时想着去碰碰运气，因为我和老公、儿子自有疫情消息爆出来之后很注意，没有感冒和发烧，所以感觉回老家看看父母也不会有大问题，但‘封城’就说明，可能疫情远超自己想象，所以还是选择不出门，一家三口直接在家呆着。
I had a car of my own and wanted to try my luck, because my husband and son had no flu or fever when the news broke out. So I felt that going home to see my parents would not be a problem.
毕竟路途中会遇到什么情况难以把控。
After all, the road will encounter what is difficult to control.
对于武汉今年的突发情况，我和家人算是比较幸运，目前还没有人感冒。
Wuhan for this year's emergencies, my family and I are relatively lucky, so far no one has a cold.
但如果以后，有家人或者朋友出现感冒和低烧的情况，我也会建议他们选择暂时别去医院，在家吃药、观察、多喝水等，因为一出现低烧就去医院的话，如果没有好的防护措施，在医院怕会出现交叉感染，情况会更严重。
However, if there are any cases of colds and low fever among family members or friends, I would also advise them to stay away from the hospital for the time being to take medicine, observe, drink more water, etc., because if there is a low fever to go to the hospital, if there is no good protective measures, fear of cross-infection, the situation will be more serious.
前天，有朋友跟我打电话求助。
The day before yesterday, some friends called me for help.
这位朋友的父亲曾与去华南进货的采购朋友接触，现在双肺感染。
The friend's father, who had been in contact with a procurement friend who had gone to South China, now had a two-lung infection.
作为确诊病人的亲密接触人，他和母亲先后去了同济、空医十一医院、六院、金银潭医院、蔡甸人民医院、七医院、中南医院等就诊，这些医院都说症状比较轻，需要确诊后等安排床位，建议先回见自行隔离。
As close contacts for the confirmed patient, he and his mother went to Tongji, 11 Air Medical Hospital, Six Hospitals, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, Cai Den People's Hospital, Seven Hospitals, Zhongnan Hospital, etc., all of which stated that the symptoms were relatively mild and that beds should be arranged after diagnosis.
我现在能做的只有按时消毒，尽量不出门，确保自己和家人健康。
All I can do now is disinfect on time, try not to go out, ensure their own health and that of their families.
今晚是除夕夜，我们一家本来应该在阳新父母家跟父母一起“守岁”，还有父母准备的很讲究的十菜两汤的年饭。
Tonight is New Year's Eve, our family should be in the Yang Xin parents' home with their parents, and the parents prepared a very meticulous ten-course two-soup rice.
现在我和老公孩子就简单做了几个菜，为了增加新年的仪式感，象征性的做了一条鱼。
Now my husband and I make a few simple dishes, to increase the sense of ceremony, symbolically made a fish.
现在才深刻的觉得过年过节能走亲访友是一件多么幸福的事情，等这件事情过去了，一定要跟亲朋好友多多聚聚，没事多去看看年迈的父母。
Only now deeply felt that the New Year energy-saving visit to friends and relatives is a very happy thing, when this matter is over, we must gather more friends and relatives, nothing more to see elderly parents.
3讲述者：父亲刘晓航坐标：武昌区东亭路12月10日新闻里通报第一个患病新闻的时候，其实我们当时没太重视，不置可否。
3 Narrator: father Liu Xiaohang coordinates: Wuchang District Dongting Road December 10 news of the first news of the disease, in fact, we did not attach much importance to it.
周围的朋友也没有太当回事。
Friends around are not too serious either.
我有个朋友是武汉梨园医院的医生，他特地打电话来告诉我事情的严重性，让我外出一定要戴口罩，没事别出门尽量待在家里。
A friend of mine, a doctor at Wuhan Liyuan Hospital, called to tell me the seriousness of the matter. He told me to wear a mask when I went out.
听了他的话，我马上跟所有之前有约的朋友打电话，取消了各种聚会、活动，同时也告诉这些朋友事情的严重性。
Hearing this, I immediately called all my old friends, cancelled all kinds of parties and activities and told them the seriousness of the situation.
尽管很想念在北京工作的女儿，但我还是特意嘱咐她春节暂时别回家，这个春节就先自己在北京过。
Although I miss my daughter working in Beijing, I still ask her not to go home for the Spring Festival.
另外，我有个外甥女、外甥，他们分别在武汉长航总医院当护士、心电图科医生，都不断给老伴儿和我发来消息，说前方感染的严重性。
In addition, I have a niece, nephew, they are in Wuhan Changhang General Hospital as nurses, electrocardiogram doctors, have been constantly sent to my wife and I about the seriousness of the forward infection.
这些都让我们开始接受这个现实，并且紧张起来。
All of this makes us start to accept this reality and get nervous.
万幸的是，截止到现在没听到周围的认识的人有感染的消息。
Luckily, until now, I haven't heard from anyone I know about the infection.
我们也看了各种新闻和防护措施，我们主要是出门戴口罩，连出门遛狗（如厕）都给狗戴上口罩，在家用酒精和消毒液消毒打扫。
We also looked at the news and precautions. We mainly went out wearing masks, even walking our dogs (such as toilets), wearing masks on dogs and disinfecting them with alcohol and disinfectant at home.
我觉得，非常时期得有非常手段。
I think extraordinary times have to be extraordinary.
1月23日凌晨2点发布封城消息的时候，我和老伴儿还在睡觉。
My wife and I were still asleep when the news of the closure was announced at 2 a.m. on January 23.
知道这个消息是那天早上5点左右，当时第一感觉就是特别庆幸没让女儿回家，她留守在北京过年是个非常正确的决定。
The first feeling was that she hadn't let her daughter go home. It was a very correct decision to stay in Beijing for the Spring Festival.
封城的这段时间，我和老伴儿就一直守在家里，我主要是看看书、品茶；老伴儿练练书法。
During this time of the city, my wife and I have been at home, I mainly read books, tea; the wife to practice calligraphy.
就算出门，活动半径范围也不出500米，倒垃圾、遛狗，在附近的小区花园转悠一下，这期间我们都会戴口罩，路上很多人也都戴着口罩。
Even if we go out, the radius of activity is less than 500 meters, garbage, walk dogs, around the neighborhood garden, during which we will wear masks, many people on the road are wearing masks.
由于春节前期准备充足，我们的食品、生活物资准备得比较充足。
Due to the abundant preparation in advance of Spring Festival, our food and living materials are well prepared.
1月21号我们已经把菜给备足了，所以之后没再去超市，听说涨得很厉害。
On January 21st we had prepared enough food, so we didn't go to the supermarket again. I heard it was going up a lot.
除夕这天，我和老伴儿从下午开始包饺子，炒几个菜，喝点小酒。
On New Year's Eve, my wife and I began to make dumplings in the afternoon, stir-fry a few dishes, drink a little wine.
我们现在的心态是谨慎乐观，女儿每年都会叮嘱我们打流感疫苗，2019年深秋的时候，已经和老伴儿去疾控中心打了，家里的药也有备的，万一有不舒服，会做自我隔离。
Our current mentality is cautious optimism, daughter will tell us to take flu vaccine every year, 2019 late autumn, and his wife to fight the CDC, home medicine is also prepared, in the event of discomfort, will do self-isolation.
现在新闻里也对自我隔离有了明确指导，我们会做好万全准备。
Now that there is clear guidance on self-segregation in the news, we are ready for it.
讲述者：女儿海王星坐标：北京市朝阳区三元桥刚开始看新闻报道肺炎这件事，传递出来的感觉，好像不是那么严重，所以也没太重视。
Narrator: Neptune coordinates of daughter: Beijing Chaoyang District Sanyuan Bridge has just started to read the news about pneumonia, the feeling, it seems, is not so serious, so do not attach much importance.
1月19号开始，相关新闻陆续密集起来，我赶紧和同事去买了一些口罩。
From January 19 onwards, the relevant news gradually intensified, I quickly and colleagues to buy some masks.
等到21号早上一觉醒来，发现朋友圈里所有人都在转发钟南山的讲话，说这个病人传人，我也一下子警觉起来。
As soon as I woke up on the morning of the 21st, I found that everyone in my circle was forwarding Zhong Nan Shan's speech.
逐渐的，微信里的一些小群里有在北京的武汉同乡讨论，到底春节还要不要回武汉。
Gradually, some small groups in the micro-letter in Beijing, Wuhan fellow townsfolk discussion, whether the Spring Festival will return to Wuhan.
我本来是计划回家的，但是和家里人商量了一下，爸妈劝我别回家了。
I had planned to go home, but after consulting my family, my parents advised me not to go home.
22号，我去了超市买了消毒液，把家里彻底打扫消毒了。
22, I went to the supermarket to buy a disinfectant, the home thoroughly cleaned and disinfected.
23日清晨5点多，当时醒了看到武汉封城的消息，我觉得爸妈开明，让我留守在北京，不给添麻烦是正确的。
23, more than 5 a.m., then woke up to see the news of the closure of Wuhan, I think my parents open-minded, let me stay in Beijing, do not cause trouble is correct.
我表哥在武汉一家医院当医生，奋战在前线，他密切接触确诊病患，前期稍稍有点咳嗽，现在有所好转，我们也算松了口气。
My cousin in Wuhan hospital as a doctor, fighting in the front line, he was in close contact with diagnosed patients, a little cough in the early stage, now better, we are relieved.
这期间，除了去超市、药店买东西，我基本都待在家里，出门基本是靠走路和骑共享单车。
During this time, except to go to the supermarket, drugstore shopping, I basically stay at home, basically by walking and riding a bicycle to share.
在超市买东西的时候，我觉得京客隆物价还好，没有感觉特别涨价，就是肉价太贵，排骨按块卖，但春节年前也不得不买。
When I was shopping in the supermarket, I thought the price of Jingkorong was good, there was no special price increase, it was too expensive meat, chops sold by block, but Spring Festival also had to buy.
就这样连续囤了好多菜，春节假期是够用了。
In this way, hoard a lot of dishes, Spring Festival is enough.
出门也基本是靠走路，或者骑共享单车。
Going out is also basically by walking, or riding a bicycle to share.
因为公司准备了一批物资准备捐赠到前方，除夕那天基本上在联系这个事情，和各方沟通协调。
Because the company has prepared a batch of materials to donate to the front, New Year's Eve is basically in contact with this matter, and all the communication and coordination.
除夕夜，我和留守在北京的几个湖北同事聚在一起吃了饭，大家聊聊家里和工作上的事情，看看电视，晚上再一起包饺子。
On New Year's Eve, several Hubei colleagues and I stayed in Beijing had dinner together. We talked about our family and work, watched TV and made dumplings together in the evening.
晚上给爸妈打了个电话问了问那边的情况，知道他们健健康康的我也安心了，虽然没能和爸妈一起过年有点遗憾，但这毕竟是特殊时期。
I called my parents in the evening and asked about the situation there. I knew that they were healthy and healthy. Although it was a pity that I couldn't spend the New Year with my parents, it was a special time.
我在北京已经做好了预防措施，家里也准备好了消炎药、感冒药，保证出门戴口罩、勤洗手，家里每天保持半小时到1小时的通风。
I have taken precautions in Beijing, and my home is equipped with anti-inflammatory drugs, cold medicines, a mask for going out, frequent hand washing, and ventilation for half an hour to an hour a day.
我觉得武汉的家人和我都能挺过去。
I think Wuhan family and I can make it through.
4讲述者：马克坐标：东湖高新技术区2020年之前，相当长一段时间，我在武汉和上海之间穿梭。
Narrator: Mark coordinates: East Lake High-tech District 2020, a considerable period of time, I shuttle between Wuhan and Shanghai.
2019年最后一周，在同事群里，我偶尔得知，汉口出现了一种奇怪肺炎，无法确诊，据说此前已有新闻，但没有后续。
In the last week of 2019, in a group of colleagues, I was occasionally told that Hankou had developed a strange pneumonia that could not be diagnosed and that news had reportedly been received but not followed up.
军运会召开前，妹妹所在的家长微信群曾接到一个非正式通知，说大量外国人来汉，小朋友和家里的老人，最好去社区医院打个流感疫苗预防。
Before the Games, the parents of my sister received an informal notice that a large number of foreigners, children and elderly family members, had better go to the community hospital for influenza vaccine prevention.
接到通知当天，我和妹妹就分头电话咨询和预约疫苗时间。
On the day of the notification, my sister and I called separately to consult and make an appointment for the vaccine.
我对流感一直警惕，2019年尤甚。
I have been on alert for flu, especially in 2019.
一是去年全家进出医院多次，二是去年武汉的气侯有点儿特别。
First, the family went to the hospital many times last year, and second, Wuhan climate last year a bit special.
以往每年国庆前后，武汉的苦夏便宣告结束，但去年直到11月底，在高铁站，我还穿着衬衣在过安检，薄薄的外套搭在行李箱上。
Wuhan's bitter summer ended every year around the National Day, but last year until the end of November, I was passing through security in my shirt and a thin coat in the trunk at the end of November.
2019年最后一个周末，我决定暂停在上海继续难有成效的工作回武汉，年迈的父母比较重要，于是写了个邮件申请年假。
On the last weekend of 2019, I decided to suspend my productive work in Shanghai and return to Wuhan, where my elderly parents were more important, so I wrote an e-mail requesting annual leave.
由于家人孩子的普通流感肺炎等问题，生活中的各种紧张和猜测，不止发生新疫情爆发前后几周，而是此前，心里已经有一张绷得很紧很紧的弦。
As a result of family and children's common flu pneumonia, life of tension and speculation, not just before and after the outbreak of a new outbreak, but before, there is already a very tight string.
官方披露新冠状病毒信息后，妹妹一家早早预订广州珠海长隆之行，犹豫之后最终在封城的前一天离开。
After the official disclosure of the new coronavirus information, the younger sister's family early booking Zhuhai Long Long trip to Guangzhou, hesitated before finally leaving on the day before the closure.
我爸妈每日往返一个固定超市和家之间，但封城前最后一天采购，我强制他们必须留守在家，要买什么我去，多少我都能扛回家。
My parents commute daily between a regular supermarket and home, but on the last day of shopping, I force them to stay home and buy whatever I want.
封城最后一天的采购，转辗于两个超市。
Shopping on the last day of the city turned over at two supermarkets.
一个大型超市，年轻人居多，90%以上戴上口罩，吾心甚慰。
A large supermarket, the majority of young people, more than 90% wear masks, my heart is very soothing.
人群中，独立一个戴防毒口罩的少年。
Among the crowd was a teenager wearing a respirator.
另个超市，妈妈阿姨们居多，90%没口罩，包括一个服务台的大姐。
Another supermarket, the majority of mothers and aunts, 90% do not have masks, including a help desk elder sister.
买青菜时，不戴口罩的阿姨们在我身边谈笑风生。
When I buy vegetables, my aunts who don't wear masks talk and laugh around me.
生鲜摊位，杀鱼大哥将口罩挂在鼻孔下方，时不时跟我呈述鱼价上涨是因批发价上涨之类，完全不在意自己的两声干咳。
At the fresh stall, Big Brother hangs his mask under his nostrils and tells me now and then that fish prices are rising because of wholesale prices and so on, regardless of his dry cough.
超市之外，每个街道的危险，他知道吗？可能听说，但并未放在心上。
Outside the supermarket, did he know about the dangers of every street? Probably heard of it, but didn't pay attention to it.
我迟疑的在他一米之外站着，因为我没买到N95口罩，也没能买到医用外科口罩，我只有小朋友入院期间在医院超市8块10张的那种蓝色口罩。
I hesitated to stand a meter away because I didn't buy a N95 mask or a surgical mask. I only had the kind of blue mask that my child spent at the hospital supermarket for 8 bucks and 10 sheets during admission.
我没买到的，不止口罩，所有应对必需品，我都短缺着，全得仰仗支援。
I didn't buy it. Not just masks. I'm short of supplies. I'm dependent on support.
离开超市时，想起有人说，可以去屈臣氏看看。
As I left the supermarket, I thought of someone saying, "You can go to Tucson's."
店里姑娘遗憾说，没有口罩了，刚卖光，明天可以早点儿来。
The girl says regretfully, no mask, just sold out, can come earlier tomorrow.
但她自己并没有戴口罩呀，每天迎来送往那么多人，那么多潜在病毒携带者，我想提醒她。
But she doesn't wear a mask herself, she sends so many people every day, so many potential carriers, I want to remind her.
23日凌晨封城。
The city was closed in the early morning.
封城前几小时，我力劝朋友23日不要返乡，她原定23日早9点高铁。
A few hours before the closure of the city, I urged my friend not to return home on the 23rd, she was scheduled to 23 early 9 high-speed rail.
只因汉口火车站太过危险。
Hankou railway station is too dangerous.
她得到父母的许可，但没能得到理解。
She got her parents' permission, but she didn't get it.
我劝说她的理由是，除了汉口火车站危险，还有你也很危险，你如何知道你不是潜在病毒携带者？以及小城市医疗救助能力，如何能保证你在知道自己被感染后还能及时被送回武汉救治？我表妹一家已经开车离开武汉，23日整天，我啥也没干，每隔一小时，淘宝京东亚马逊网易严选有赞刷一遍口罩，有几次，以为下单成功，不足半小时，付款返回。
How do you know that you are not a potential carrier of the virus and how can you be sent back to Wuhan in time to be treated? My cousin's family has driven away from Wuhan, 23 days, I did nothing, every other hour, Taobao Jingdong Amazon.com successfully, less than half an hour, payment back.
其他时间，刷朋友圈微信群微博。
At other times, brush your circle of friends micro-blog.
对无序信息的好奇，在于背后多少埋伏部分真相。
The curiosity about disordered information lies in how much lies behind the ambush part of the truth.
与此同时，我试图梳理，如果我或者家人被感染，几天后症状显现，我得去哪所医院？如何去？路线如何规划？需要怎样向医生做完整有效的表达？如何争取被救治的机会？我建了一个文档，用于记录我和家人自20日以来的各种身体症状，比如我自22日干咳，23日稍有加重，不排除是因22日当天辗转两间超市，热湿了羽绒服。
At the same time, I tried to sort out which hospital I would have to go to if I or my family got infected and symptoms appeared in a few days. How to get there?
24日凌晨醒来，喉咙略有肿痛，不单发痒而已，口服蜂蜜后，略有改善。
24 morning wake up, throat is a bit swollen, not only itch, oral honey, slightly improved.
父母的身体状况，不单要记在文档，还得记在心上。
The condition of your parents should be recorded not only in your documents but also in your mind.
有些人为什么要离开武汉？多看几个别的地方的武汉病例后，我想我略微明白。
Why do some people want to leave Wuhan? Read a few other Wuhan cases, I think I understand a little.
于是我在家族群说，如果我被感染，我可能也开车去南京或者长沙或者广州，呆在武汉，医疗资源可能无法分配给我。
So I told the family that if I got infected, I might drive to Nanjing or Changsha or Guangzhou and stay in Wuhan, and medical resources might not be allocated to me.
事实上，我现在没法开车离开武汉。
Actually, I can't drive away from Wuhan right now.
已有48小时，我没离开自己的房间。
I haven't left my room for 48 hours.
我和父母互不见面，只打电话，除夕没法过了，团圆饭自然不吃了。
My parents and I do not see each other, only the telephone, New Year's Eve can not pass, the dinner naturally do not eat.
爸妈做好的饭菜，我要给我妈的蜜蜂消毒洗手液口罩，一个放在门里，一个放在门外，互相交换。
Mom and Dad cooked food, I would like to disinfect my mother's bees hand sanitizer, one in the door, the other outside, exchange.
今早，我妈电话说，她昨天喉咙痛了整天，喝许多水后，今早有缓解。
This morning, my mother called to say that she had a sore throat all day yesterday. After drinking a lot of water, she was relieved this morning.
我生气她昨天不说，跟她长篇诉苦，“如果你有症状，稍轻些我还能想办法，我可以去买药，如果你瞒住我不说，你已经66岁了，病情如果失控，我找谁帮助？”眼下就有很多很多的武汉人，需要得到帮助。
I was angry that she had said nothing yesterday and complained to her at length, "If you have symptoms, I can still think of a way, I can buy medicine, if you don't conceal that you are 66, and if it gets out of hand, who can I turn to for help?
在电话里跟我妈说着，我意识到我要哭了。
Talking to my mother on the phone, I realized I was about to cry.
我突然意识到，我妈居然66岁了，我是何时才真切感知到她的年龄的？我一直以为她是才四十几岁的妈妈，我给她拍的每张照片都那样年轻。
I suddenly realized that my mother was 66, when did I really know her age? I always thought she was a 40-something mother, and every picture I took of her was so young.
我要如何才能保护我的父母？我想说，我们需要更多的外界帮助，或许挺身而出的英雄已经上路，或许我们原本可以人人都是英雄的市民。
How can I protect my parents? I'd like to say that we need more outside help, maybe the hero is on his way, maybe we can all be heroes.
但我现在能做的，只是打开文档记录如下：路遇咳嗽男后，第三天，尚且有力，中午排骨面，食欲还行。
But all I can do now is to open the file and record this: The third day, after the coughing man, was strong, noonday spareribs and appetites were okay.
5讲述者：梦梦坐标：武昌12月的时候报道出了第一个病人，当时感觉就是跟北京那时候的鼠疫一样，也会告诉家里人，告诉他们小心，但也不知道怎么样去避免，整体上病情的状态我们也不太清楚。
Narrator: Dreamdream Coordinates: Wuchang reported the first patient in December, feeling like the plague of Beijing, telling his family to be careful, but not knowing how to avoid it.
通知了亲朋好友，但是没有让他们戴口罩，以为不严重，也不知道是怎么传染的，都没有任何概念。
Notify family and friends, but did not let them wear masks, do not think that it is not serious, do not know how the infection, there is no concept.
意识到严重性，是我1月19号回的武汉，晚上11点，我的朋友开始疯狂给我转发相关信息，有些是官方消息，有些是无法判断的传言。
Realizing how serious it was, I returned to Wuhan on January 19th. At 11 p. m., my friends began frantically relaying relevant information, some official and some undecided.
从20号开始，我就没有再出过门了。
I haven't been out since the 20th.
然后我也让我家里人都不要出门。
And then I told my family not to go out.
我们家本来是要在20号之后吃年夜饭的，然后无论是爷爷奶奶家，还是外婆外公家就都取消了。
Our family was supposed to have Chinese New Year's Eve dinner after the 20th, and then it was canceled, either at my grandparents' house or at my grandparents' house.
然后家里也开始适度通风，用消毒水拖地什么的。
Then the home also began to moderate ventilation, with disinfectant to mop the floor or something.
没有直接认识的朋友被感染，但是有间接认识的人，是医院的医生，医生感染了就退下来，然后自行隔离。
Friends who do not know each other directly are infected, but those who do know each other indirectly are doctors at the hospital who step down when they get infected and isolate themselves.
这个病现在也没有特效药，就靠抵抗力去扛，扛过去就扛过去了，扛不过去就也没办法。
This disease also does not have specific medicine now, rely on resistance to carry, carry over on the past, can not carry past there is no way.
其实1月22号下午的时候，我北京的朋友就给我发过消息，说武汉可能会被封城，当时我是不相信的，因为大家都知道我们都没有经历过封城这种事。
In fact, on the afternoon of January 22, my friends in Beijing sent me news that Wuhan might be banned. At that time, I didn't believe it, because we all knew that we had never experienced such a thing.
我还跟他辩解了一番。
And I explained it to him.
第二天看到封城的消息，也没有特别惊讶。
There was no particular surprise at the news of the cityscape the next day.
还是觉得这个严重性，突然一下就被体现出来了。
Still feel this serious, suddenly be manifested.
我爸妈之前出门不愿意戴口罩的。
My parents didn't want to wear masks before.
23号发布了封城的消息，我爸妈就开始特别紧张，我觉得这个消息对中老年人还是蛮起作用的，就是会立刻提高他们对这个病主动认知的能动性，加强他们的防范意识。
When the news of the ban was announced on the 23rd, my parents began to be particularly nervous. I thought it would do a lot to help the old and middle-aged to improve their active cognition of the disease and strengthen their sense of prevention.
我回来的时候，计划之后要去泰国玩，还改了机票，那个时候其实疫情还没有特别严重。
When I got back, I was planning to go to Thailand and change my ticket, which wasn't particularly serious at the time.
当事情变得特别严重的时候，我就决定不走了。
When things got really bad, I decided not to go.
毕竟就是我爸妈也都在武汉，要是我一个人在外地的话，我还会特别担心他们。
After all, even my parents are in Wuhan, if I am alone in the field, I will be particularly worried about them.
封城之后我没有出过门，我妈出去过一次，就是买蔬菜，涨价是肯定的，超市的那些没有特别大幅涨价的蔬菜很多人去抢，超市就被抢空了，一下子补货也补不上来。
After the closure of the city I did not go out, my mother went out once, is to buy vegetables, the price increase is positive, the supermarket did not particularly large prices of vegetables to rob many people, the supermarket was emptied, all of a sudden replenishment is not available.
现在武汉大街上是几乎没有人的状态。
There are few people in Wuhan street now.
最不好买的东西就是医用品和口罩之类的，因为所有的外地的朋友都让我戴口罩，或者用酒精消毒。
The hardest things to buy are medical supplies and masks, because all my out-of-town friends let me wear masks or use alcohol to disinfect them.
但是家里如果没有囤积的口罩，或者没有囤积酒精的话，这个节骨眼上根本就买不到，所以我现在用的是最基础的那个蓝色还会漏风的普通口罩。
But without a mask in stock or a hoard of alcohol, I can't buy it at all, so I'm using the basic blue, leaking, ordinary mask.
武汉已经没有春节的概念了，和家人朋友聊的所有话题都是疫情，家里的群以前一般就是在过年前后，大家都会跟长辈、朋友们送祝福发红包什么的，今年大家就是不停的转发，要如何预防疾病？如何给家里消毒？我从20号开始就没有出过门了，我家门口就是马路，从22号开始街上就没有什么人了，23号的时候，对街道进行清洗的车在下面不停的开来开去。
Wuhan is no longer the concept of the Spring Festival, and friends and family chat with the epidemic situation, the family is usually in the past year or so, we will be sent to the elders, friends and other red envelopes, this year is not repeated, how to prevent disease? How to disinfect homes?
也没有什么行人。
There were no pedestrians.
19号的时候出过门，街上没有人戴口罩。
When they went out on the 19th, no one in the street was wearing a mask.
然后20号的时候，路上的行人大概是一半一半吧，一半的人戴了口罩，一半的人不带，不带的人主要是以中老年人为主。
Then on the 20th, the road was about half full of pedestrians, half of the people wore masks, half of the people did not, mainly elderly people.
前天早上6点的时候，一些老奶奶老爷爷在楼下聊天声音很大，因为疫情这件事产生了一些争执和讨论，还是很紧张的。
The day before yesterday morning at 6 o'clock, some grandmothers and grandfathers in the downstairs chatting loudly, because of the outbreak of this matter caused some disputes and discussions, is still very nervous.
我在武汉的那些群聊里面看到，有些年轻人感觉自己的状况不是很稳定。
I saw in those group conversations in Wuhan that some young people felt that their situation was not very stable.
我现在一点都不害怕，虽然我已经不能去期待已久的地方度假，旅游预订的钱估计也浪费了。
I'm not scared at all now, and though I can't go to the long-awaited place on holiday, the money I've booked for the trip is probably wasted.
而且估计武汉的封城不知道何时结束，年后也不能正常开展工作，这是肯定的。
And Wuhan is not expected to end the closure of the city, after the year can not work properly, it is certain.
我觉得这就是现实，一旦发生，就会打乱你本来生活的节奏。
I think this is reality, once it happens, it will disrupt the rhythm of your life.
我朋友家在医院旁边，母亲也是医生，骨科妇科也都安排上班了。
My friend's house is next to the hospital, my mother is a doctor, and orthopaedic gynecology is scheduled to work.
朋友说，医院旁边救护车声音在20-22日没断过。
Friends said that the hospital next to the ambulance voice in the 20-22 continued.
因为新爆发疾病，医疗资源匮乏，我家一个亲戚刚手术完，并发症肺炎也进icu了，病不逢时。
Due to a new outbreak of disease, lack of medical resources, a relative of my family just finished surgery, complications of pneumonia into ICU, the disease did not come at the right time.
今天又跟朋友聊了一天，觉得很生气。
Today, I chatted with my friends for another day and felt very angry.
现在物资好像不够，前线医生都很辛苦。
There seems to be not enough supplies. The front-line doctors are working hard.
除夕这天我清晨听见有人在下面叫，大概六点就醒了。
On New Year's Eve I heard someone calling from below. I woke up about six o'clock.
然后得知小区里一个老太太倒下了。
Then I learned that an old lady in the neighborhood had fallen.
后来就一直在跟抚慰我的朋友们聊天。
I've been chatting with friends who comfort me ever since.
也静不下心干别的。
I don't mind doing anything else.
早上吃的牛肉面（牛肉变少了），下午想出去买菜放弃了。
Morning beef noodle (less beef), in the afternoon would like to go out to buy vegetables gave up.
然后就一个人在房间里过年，准备跟朋友们玩一下游戏放松心情。
Then a person in the room to celebrate the New Year, ready to play games with friends to relax.
我的年夜饭是和父母分开吃的，我爸刚退烧在睡觉，我妈在一楼吃，我在二楼吃。
My New Year's dinner is separated from my parents, my father just had a fever in bed, my mother eat on the first floor, I eat on the second floor.
6讲述者：宇哲两年前定居武汉我原本打算24号一早和朋友开车回老家，封城的消息来得太突然，23号早上十点开始离开武汉的通道就全部关闭了，当天早上八点左右我才在朋友圈看到这个消息，我当时刚起床完全不敢相信，等反应过来才联系朋友。
I had planned to drive back home with my friends on the morning of the 24th. The news of the city being closed at 10: 00 am on the 23rd was so sudden that I saw it in my circle of friends around 8: 00 am. I just got up and I couldn't believe it.
虽然那时候高速路还没完全封死，但是我们都决定今年不回去过年了。
Although the expressway was not completely blocked at that time, we all decided not to go back this year.
我是在武汉念的大学，毕业后去北京工作了七八年，两年前有了孩子搬到武汉定居。
I studied in Wuhan University, after graduation to work in Beijing for seven or eight years, two years ago had a child moved to Wuhan to settle down.
我对武汉感情很深，对封城这件事是完全理解的，而且之前也在新闻上看到钟南山院士说，这次的疫情已经出现人传人的情况，从大的方面想，我们做出点牺牲没什么。
I have deep feelings to Wuhan, this matter of the closure of the city fully understand, and I have seen in the news Academician Zhong Nan Shan, said that this epidemic has been human-to-human, in the larger sense, we made a little sacrifice.
我住的地方离华南海鲜市场直线距离就几公里，新闻上说那可能是这次疫情爆发的源头，封城那天上午我看了美团和盒马鲜生准备下单，发现蔬菜、水果和猪肉基本都已经售罄了，所以万不得已才出门去了家附近的超市。
I lived just a few kilometers from the South China seafood market, and the news said it was probably the source of the outbreak. That morning I visited the U.S. Mission and a box of fresh pork and vegetables and found that most of the vegetables, fruits and pork were sold out.
我之前只买到了普通的医用口罩，那天出门戴了两个，捂得严严实实。
I only bought a normal medical mask before, that day I went out to wear two, covered tightly.
武汉最近很冷，零星的行人大多戴着口罩蜷缩着身体，当然偶尔也能看到几个没戴口罩的人。
Wuhan has recently been cold, with sporadic pedestrians curled up in masks and, occasionally, a few people without masks.
那家超市里人很多，每个收银通道都排着长队。
The supermarket was crowded, with long queues at every checkout aisle.
那天上午超市的货物供应正常，没有出现断货和明显涨价的情况。
The supermarket had a normal supply of goods that morning, and there were no interruptions or appreciable price increases.
我买的都是些食物，大米、蔬菜、水果、猪肉都有，还买了一箱农夫山泉和二十多盒泡面，当时感觉就像电影里似曾相识的景里。
I bought food, rice, vegetables, fruit, pork, and a box of Fountain Springs and more than 20 boxes of noodles. It felt like a familiar scene in the movie.
武汉确诊的人数每天都在增加，现在大家都不出门了，大概只有超市和医院人比较多吧。
Wuhan confirmed the number of people are increasing every day, now we do not go out, only the supermarket and hospital people are probably more bar.
因为要处理孩子的户口问题，我老婆一周前带孩子提前回了老家，那时候没想到疫情变化会这么快。
My wife took the baby back home a week ago because she had to deal with the hukou problem and didn't expect the epidemic to change so quickly.
今天早上她给我发了一张家里置办年货的照片，长这么大第一次没回家过年，心里确实不好受。
This morning she sent me a picture of the New Year's Eve in my family. It really made me feel bad not to be home for the first time.
一个人的除夕夜，年夜饭我吃得简单，一碟小虾，一碗米饭，一杯白酒就是全部。
A person's New Year's Eve, dinner I eat simple, a dish of shrimp, a bowl of rice, a glass of white wine is all.
然后，我和家人打了视频电话，告诉他们注意防护、出门戴好口罩。
Then I made a video call to my family, telling them to watch out and wear masks.
一位高中同学除夕夜给我发来慰问，让我想起了很多年前，2003年非典，我在恩施高中读高一，我们封闭在黄家卯上教室里不能离校，时在春夏之交换季没有衣服穿，有同学翻院墙出去买，我请人给我带了一件t袖，十几块钱吧，特别劣质穿了两天就起球。
A high school student on New Year's Eve sent me condolences, let me think of many years ago, 2003 SARS, I attended Enshi High School, we closed up in the classroom can not leave school, in the spring and summer no clothes, students overturned the courtyard to buy, I asked someone to bring me a T sleeves, a dozen dollars, especially poor-quality wear two days on the ball.
室友也就是这位高中同学有件袖小了，折价卖给了我。
Roommate is also this high school classmate has a small sleeve, discount to sell to me.
我和他提起这段历史，他已经记不得了。
I mentioned this history to him, and he can't remember it.
7讲述者：云拜年坐标：武昌12月份的时候，我们感觉病毒这件事好像不太严重。
Narrator: Yun paid New Year's Eve coordinates: When Wuchang was in December, we felt that the virus seemed to be a minor problem.
意识到这个事情严重的时候，是在一月十几号的时候，有些人开始囤一些板蓝根、口罩、棉花清、口服液之类的。
Realizing how serious the matter was, some people began to hoard some Banlangen, mask, cotton cleaning, oral liquid and so on.
我是1月17号回到了武汉，我们家人也开始讨论这件事情了，但是那个时候还没有这么严重。
I returned to Wuhan on January 17th and my family started to discuss it, but it wasn't as serious as it was then.
1月18号的时候去逛街，或者是上街都很正常，那时候稀稀拉拉的有一些人戴口罩。
It was normal to go shopping on January 18th, or to go out in the street, when a few people were wearing masks.
但是大家在聊这件事情就是，并没有觉得会发生在自己身边这么严重。
But everyone was talking about it and didn't think it was going to happen to them so badly.
我1月19号，从武汉回到荆州的时候，我还是非常自觉戴上了口罩。
When I returned to Jingzhou from Wuhan on January 19th, I still put on my mask very consciously.
那时候华南海鲜市场已经封了，汉口火车站也就正好在华南海鲜市场隔壁。
By then, the South China seafood market was closed and Hankou Railway Station was next door to the South China Seafood Market.
但是那天火车站戴口罩人也不太多，真正紧张的应该包括我。
But I wasn't the one wearing masks at the train station that day, and I was the one who was really nervous.
后来钟南山院士又在新闻里爆出可以人传人，舆情才越来越严重，武汉这边，包括我父母、亲戚朋友，开始重视这件事情了。
Later, Zhong Nan Shan academician in the news can be passed from person to person, public opinion is becoming more and more serious, Wuhan side, including my parents, relatives and friends, began to attach importance to this matter.
之前武汉人自己也在调侃，没有把这件事情看的很重。
Wuhan people have been making fun of themselves before, did not take this matter seriously.
确定这个事情之后，我们的团年饭也都取消了，我妈妈在各种各样的群，旅游群、广场舞的群都有宣传，有一个阿姨号召，把团年饭都去退掉。
After confirming this, our reunion dinner was cancelled, my mother in a variety of groups, tourist groups, square dance groups are advertised, an aunt called for the refunds.
我们家也把去各个地方的酒店和机票都退掉了。
Our family has also returned hotel and air tickets to various places.
我们身边的朋友没有确诊或者感染的，我们认识的武汉市民都非常自觉。
The friends around us are not diagnosed or infected, and the people we know in Wuhan are very conscious.
不去别人家串门，也不让别人来我们家。
Do not visit other people's homes, nor let others come to our home.
基本上我认识的亲戚朋友都是这样在做的。
Basically, this is what my relatives and friends do.
然后我身边认识的亲戚朋友也没有逃离武汉的。
Then I knew the relatives and friends did not flee Wuhan.
我们听到说武汉越来越严重的时候，也考虑过要不要开车出去，但随着各种消息铺天盖地，我们觉得还是呆在家里注意安全。
When we heard that Wuhan was getting more and more serious, we considered whether to drive out, but with all kinds of news, we decided to stay at home and pay attention to safety.
当时说封城的时候，也讨论过要不要开车出城，但最后还是一致决定留在武汉。
At the time of the closure of the city, also discussed whether to drive out of the city, but finally decided to stay in Wuhan.
很多土生土长的武汉人，都是非常大的一个家族，好几十号人。
Many native Wuhan people, are a very large family, many dozens of people.
新闻里都说会保障武汉市民的用电用水用气，包括食品蔬菜，说实话我们家都不慌。
The news all said that will guarantee the Wuhan city people's electricity and water use gas, including food and vegetables, to tell the truth our family did not panic.
感觉一些超市、菜场、惠民超市，也没有涨价，永旺超市有一段时间的哄抢，但是那几种菜本来就是贵价菜，就算没有疫情，每年过年的时候也会涨价。
Feel that some supermarkets, vegetable farms, Huimin supermarket, there is no price increase, Yongwang supermarket for a period of time, but those dishes are already expensive dishes, even if there is no outbreak of the disease, annual New Year will also increase prices.
抖音上传的一些贵的菜，其实就是净菜或者精品菜，本来就贵。
Jitter upload some expensive dishes, in fact, is pure vegetables or boutique dishes, is already expensive.
但是也不排除有人哄抬，不良心的商家总是有。
But also does not rule out that some people cajole, conscientious businessmen always have.
作为武汉人，就很生气，一些网友又不在武汉，却喜欢把一些负面消息无限放大，大家就觉得武汉不给力。
As Wuhan people, is very angry, some netizens are not in Wuhan, but like to magnify some negative news infinitely, we feel that Wuhan is not strong.
本来我们已经封闭在围城里了，负面消息放大，只会让民众恐慌。
We were already closed to the siege, and negative news only magnified the crowd.
本来这个超市没有发生哄抢，就因为有网友转发，大家就去超市哄抢，这样只会增加我们的恐慌。
Originally this supermarket did not have the rob, because has the netizen repeats, everybody goes to the supermarket to rob, this can only increase our panic.
我有一个亲身经历，有人说武汉的白菜70块钱一颗，一百块钱一颗，我就把买东西的真实价格小票附在他的微博后面，很多武汉网友也是这样做的。
I have a personal experience, someone said that Wuhan cabbage 70 yuan a dollar, a hundred dollars a day, I will buy the real price of small tickets attached to his Weibo, many Wuhan netizens do so.
有人问武汉人现在最大的困扰是什么，我们评论的就是现在武汉最怕就是各种谣言或者是不实的报道。
Wuhan people are asked what is the biggest problem, we comment is that Wuhan is now the most afraid of rumors or false reports.
制造这种绯闻，或者制造这种让人人心惶惶的不实言论，是对武汉最大的恶。
This scandal, or the creation of such a disconcerting disinformation, is Wuhan's greatest evil.
我们在家里面就真的只有看电视，看看手机，本来我们亲戚家和我们就一个小区之隔，我们不去他们家，也不让他们到我们家来，也不打麻将，就以防出门以后增加感染病毒的风险。
We really only watch TV at home, look at mobile phones, we relatives and we are separated by a small area, we do not go to their homes, they do not play Mahjong, so as not to go out to increase the risk of contracting the virus.
现在生活已经很无聊了，在家里就是吃了睡，睡了吃。
Now life is very boring, at home is to eat sleep, sleep to eat.
我就希望网上的负面消息或者是不实的消息能够少一点。
I just hope that there will be less negative news or untrue information on the Internet.
街上现在基本上都已经没有人了，空空荡荡的，有的话人人都戴口罩。
The streets are now largely empty, empty, and some people wear masks.
除夕这天早上，社区到我们家来发市民倡议书。
On New Year's Eve this morning, the community came to our home to send citizens' initiatives.
说不担心害怕那也是假的，但是我们还是相信政府，相信党吧。
It is also false to say that we are not afraid, but we still believe in the government and in the Party.
希望我们武汉人能够度过这个难关。
I hope we Wuhan people can overcome this difficulty.
8讲述者：齐富武汉务工工人我2017年来到武汉，是河南焦作人，目前在天鹅湖大道这边住，是一个工厂的在职职工。
8 Narrator: Qi Fu Wuhan labor workers I came to Wuhan in 2017, Henan Jiao Zuoren, is currently living on this side of Swan Lake Avenue, is a factory employees.
12月10号出现第一次病历这个消息我没有收到，我的同事也不知道这个情况。
I did not receive the news that the first medical record appeared on December 10, and my colleagues did not know about it.
我知道消息也是同事告诉我的，是在12月25号，武汉出现了大规模的肺炎病情。
I know the news is also told me by colleagues, December 25, Wuhan appeared a large-scale pneumonia.
我孩子在这边上学，只要有学生有发烧感冒的情况，都会去治疗，但是学校没有停课，还在上课。
My child goes to school here and goes to school whenever a student has a fever or a cold, but the school doesn't stop and is still in class.
我在厂里都是穿洁净服，手消毒。
I wear clean clothes and disinfect my hands in the factory.
12月25号，同事或者朋友发了一些群里的截图，但是官方消息都没有收到。
On December 25th, colleagues or friends sent out screenshots of the group, but no official information was received.
我们这边不是很在意，因为毕竟不是官方的消息，都是小道消息。
We are not very concerned about this, because after all, not official news, are all gossip.
元旦的时候，我带着家人戴着口罩去外面跨年在元旦，在长江边上看到很少人戴口罩，基本上武汉人都没有很在意这些事情。
On New Year's Day, I took my family and wearing masks to the New Year's Day. I saw very few people wearing masks along the Yangtze River.
然后1月8号，学校开始放假了，15号学校开散学典礼，在接孩子的时候也没有发现大量人戴口罩。
Then, on January 8th, school holidays began and School No. 15 opened, and no large number of people were found wearing masks when they picked up the children.
事情严重的是在19号，官方已经发出消息了，说这个病情很严重，有大量的感染源。
The serious matter is on the 19th, the official has issued the news, said this condition is very serious, has the massive infection source.
陆陆续续的，我看基本上都戴了口罩。
I found myself wearing essentially a mask.
19号下午，我们厂里开始放假，然后我一直待在家里关注这个情况。
In the afternoon of the 19th, our factory began to have a holiday, and then I stayed at home to watch the situation.
我现在一个人在武汉过年，也不想给家里人还有老家人带来病情隐患。
I now spend the New Year alone in Wuhan, do not want to bring the family and old family members hidden dangers.
20号的时候我出去买了很多方便面，给自己囤粮，还去了附近的菜市场，但是还是很少人戴口罩。
On the 20th I went out to buy a lot of instant noodles, hoarded food for myself and went to a nearby vegetable market, but few people wore masks.
我口罩戴了两层，里边一层，外边一层。
I'm wearing a two-storey mask, one inside and one outside.
昨天我开车转了转，想顺便再囤点口罩。
I drove around yesterday, trying to hoard some more masks.
去了几家药房，前三家都已经在上个星期五销售完了，第四家有卖的，一个15块钱。
I went to a few pharmacies, the first three were sold out last Friday, and the fourth one, a fifteen-dollar one.
这时候武汉是车来车往，很少个别人出来活动的，基本上都戴上口罩了。
Wuhan is now a car to the car, very few people out of the activities, basically wearing masks.
超市菜还算充足，东西也蛮多的，没有抢购一空这个情况。
Supermarket food is still quite adequate, things are quite much, there is no rush to buy this situation.
除夕自己一个人在家，只能是看看电影，看看春节跨年晚会。
New Year's Eve at home alone, can only be to see movies, see the Spring Festival Eve gala.
对于新病毒传播我还是比较理智，因为我了解这个病情是人对人传播的，所以我只要不接触人的话，应该是没有太大问题的，当然防护措施是不可避免的。
I am sensible about the spread of the new virus, because I understand that the disease is human-to-human transmission, so as long as I do not contact people, there should be no major problems, of course, protective measures are inevitable.
真正让我担心的是，因为新建医院的地方离我这里没有多远。
What really worried me was that the new hospital was not far from me.
9讲述者：小盼坐标：青山区红钢城1月21日，已经离家半年之久的我从北京坐上G527次列车赶回武汉老家。
I left home for half a year and got on the G527 train back to my hometown in Wuhan from Beijing on January 21.
启程之前向家人询问了武汉疫情的情况，得到的答复是：这里一切照常，没有外界宣传的那么严重。
Before the departure of the Wuhan family members asked about the epidemic situation, was told: here as usual, not as serious as the publicity.
当我下车的时候，眼前所见似乎也验证了家人说的话，来往的行人戴口罩的只有不到半数。
As I got out of the car, what I saw seemed to confirm what my family had said. Fewer than half of the pedestrians were wearing masks.
“如往常一样，一个平淡的春节罢了”，随着心里一阵嘀咕，我还是拉上口罩拖着沉重的行李箱穿过拥挤的人群回到了家。
"As usual, a bland Spring Festival is all," I muttered to myself as I pulled on my mask and dragged my heavy suitcase through the crowd back home.
外界的报道依旧接连不断，越来越多的外省感染案例让我觉得这不只是一次简单的流感，累计的死亡案例也在不断加重着自己的怀疑，直到武汉封城的消息传来。
Reports continue to circulate, and a growing number of cases of infection in the provinces make me feel that this is not just a simple flu, the cumulative number of deaths are also increasing their doubts, until news of the city of Wuhan.
像常人一样，得知到这一消息的我立刻紧张了起来，也在第一时间赶往附近的药店尝试囤积一些口罩，那里也早早排起了长龙。
As usual, I got nervous as soon as I got the news and rushed to a nearby drugstore to try to hoard some masks, and there was an early queue.
不少人都是成兜买，本来只想买口罩，看别人买医疗酒精自己也拿了酒精，看别人买感冒药自己也买感冒药，失去了理智，也没有了判断。
Many people are buying into a pocket, originally only want to buy masks, to see others buy medical alcohol themselves also took alcohol, to see others buy their own cold medicine, lost their sense, and no judgment.
口罩只放在柜台出售，一只卖到25元，而且每人限购5只。
Masks are sold at the counter for $25 each, with a five-pack limit.
柜台收银的姑娘一边收银一边说：“XX县同样的口罩都卖到35元，我们老板不让涨价只卖到25元。
"XX County is selling for 35 yuan for the same mask," the girl at the cashier's desk said. "Our boss won't let the price rise get 25 yuan.
”我询问了是否是N95型的，收银的姑娘指了指包装右上角印的“滤料：N95级”并告诉他这是正宗的N95。
When I asked if it was the N95, the cash register girl pointed to the "filter material: N95" printed on the top right corner of the package and told him it was genuine N95.
回到家我看到包装上的“滤菌率99”又怀疑了起来，登录京东查了一下同款型号口罩的价位是150元100个，基本没有防菌的能力。
Back home, I saw the packaging of the "filtration rate 99" again suspected, registered in the Jingdong look up the price of the same type of mask is 150 yuan 100, basically no anti-bacterial capacity.
“有比没有好。
"Nothing is better than nothing.
”我最终选择了忍气吞声。
I finally chose to swallow my words.
往年此时热闹非凡的街道开始少有人走动，几乎每个人都戴上了口罩。
At this time of year the bustling streets begin to see fewer people walking, and almost everyone is wearing masks.
菜场码头，公交车站，还地铁站都被封了，就连大型商场也都少有走动的踪影。
Market jetties, bus stops and subway stations have been sealed off, and even large shopping malls are rarely seen moving.
而现武汉居住民的出行方式只剩自驾，为了应对紧急情况加油站也在正常工作。
Now Wuhan residents travel only self-driving, in order to deal with the emergency gas station is also in normal work.
现在，整个武汉人民都意识到了事件的严重性，我也接受了现实慢慢缓了过来。
Now, the whole Wuhan people are aware of the seriousness of the incident, I also accept that the reality slowly eased.
自从回家后，我就一直在家窝着不敢出门，除了看剧就是看新闻，经常也能收到关于武汉疫情的短信通知，城管目前都处在一线，对街道进行消毒杀菌。
Since coming home, I have been afraid to go out at home, in addition to watching the drama is to watch the news, often can also receive Wuhan epidemic SMS notice, the city tube is currently in the front line, disinfect and sterilize the streets.
政府和机关单位都参与进来到处发宣传广告，不让出去走亲访友。
The government and government agencies are involved in the distribution of advertising everywhere, not to go out to visit friends and relatives.
我也取消了聚会的打算，走亲访友的计划也都在电话里取消或者拒绝了。
I also cancelled my plans for the party, and all my plans to visit friends and relatives were canceled or turned down by phone.
私下里，我听说身处武汉的人目前依旧可以通过小路出城，目前还有私家车在收费带路，单价差不多1500一个人。
In private, I hear that people in Wuhan can still get out of the city via the road, there are private cars in the toll road, the unit price almost 1500 people.
如果当时早封一下交通应该效果好一点，至少自己也不会被困在这。
If the traffic had been closed earlier it would have worked better, at least not trapped here.
我还是希望武汉早点解封，毕竟自己还要回北京工作。
I still hope Wuhan will be released earlier, after all, I have to go back to work in Beijing.
年三十这天，一家人没有精心准备年夜饭，而是简单地准备了点家常菜。
On New Year's Eve, the family did not prepare the New Year's Eve meal carefully, but simply prepared some home cooking.
吃罢，一家人安静地围在电视机边，或许比起载歌载舞的节目，武汉疫情的最新进展更能拨动我们心里那根紧崩的弦。
After eating, the family quietly around the TV set, perhaps more than singing and dancing programs, Wuhan's latest outbreak of disease more than that of the collapse of the string.
“新年快乐！”如往常一样，我收到不少来自亲友的新年祝福，简单寒暄了几句便会以“尽量少出门”“保护好自己”等结尾。
"Happy New Year!" As usual, I received many good wishes from my family and friends for the New Year. I would like to make a few small courtesies to end with "Don't go out as much as possible."
望向窗外，悠长的街上，只有屈指可数的行人，隔着口罩谁也认不出谁，阴冷冬日的武汉上空，烟花少见了许多。
Looking out of the window, long streets, only a few pedestrians, through the mask no one can recognize, cold winter over Wuhan, fireworks are much less.
孩子们也都躲起来了吧。
All the children have gone into hiding.
感谢您的阅读，欢迎在文后留言并点击“在看”，留言点赞第一名且60以上，获得一个月腾讯视频会员哦~（截止时间：下周一下午18：00）扫码查看腾讯新闻客户端相关文章本文版权归“腾讯新闻”所有，如需转载请在文后留言，经允许后方可转载，并在文首注明来源、作者及编辑，文末附上深网二维码。
Tencent News (AP) News (AP) (Reuters) - Tencent News (AP) (AP) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (youtheme.cn)
第526期实习运营编辑：黄贺陈诗雨点击“阅读原文”，查看腾讯新闻客户端相关独家文章！你“在看”我吗？。
The 526 internship operation editor: Huang He Chen Shi-yu click "read the original text", see Tencent News client-related exclusive articles! You "see" me?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
九个武汉普通人家的别样除夕 | 深网。
Rhetoric New Year's Eve at nine ordinary Wuhan homes.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯深网";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Tencent.
var msg_title = "九个武汉普通人家的别样除夕 | 深网";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们的希望，就在这些平凡的万家灯火里。
var msg _ desc = & quot; our hope, in all its commonplace light.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '中国芯片突围战，是科技史上最悲壮的长征 | 深网',。
China's Chip Breakthrough War was at the forefront of AT & T's & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '专访张朝阳：人生是苦海，快乐不可追，如何活出个说法？| 深网',。
A: Life was a sea of bitterness and happiness. How did you manage to live? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '谁杀死了ofo？ | 深网',。
Who killed Fofo? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '尘埃里的单车 | 深网',。
Ride & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '马云，江湖再见 | 深网',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="腾讯深网";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Tencent.
