一位武汉诗人的小镇隔离日记：同事昨天感染了，从崩溃到重生 | 深网。
A Wuhan poet's town quarantined diary: Colleagues got infected yesterday, from crash to rebirth and deep Web.
谈骁。
peer peer.
腾讯深网                      。
Tencent deep net.
腾讯深网。
Tencent deep net.
腾讯新闻出品栏目，《深网》是一档原创深度报道栏目，挖掘科技和TMT领域热门公司、事件和人物中的隐秘故事，探究背后的深层逻辑。
Tencent News columns, "Deep Web" is an original in-depth reporting column, mining technology and TMT hot companies, events and people among the secret story, explore the underlying logic.
。
.
作者 | 谈骁(武汉诗人，春节自我隔离在潜江小镇。
peer peer) Wuhan poet, Spring Festival self-isolation in Qianjiang town.
)编辑：康晓出品｜深网·腾讯小满工作室欢迎下载腾讯新闻APP，阅读更多优质资讯编者按：通过湖北各城普通民众的视角和抗疫日记，记录这一段我们永不会忘记的历史。
(+ + + + + + + + + +, + + - +, + + + +, + + + +, + + +,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Through the eyes of ordinary people and the anti-epidemic diary, record this episode of history we will never forget.
封城之际，只有个人的视角和经验，被动接受各种消息，真伪难定。
The closure of the city, only personal perspective and experience, passively accept all kinds of information, truth and falsehood hard to determine.
至于政府、民间的各种通告和推送，不乏常理之外的，个人也难评判。
As for the various announcements and tweets made by the government and the people, there is no lack of common sense.
但忠实于个人经验的观察，起码保证了诚实，也算一个窗口。
But observation faithful to personal experience, at least, guarantees honesty and is a window.
这大概是那一点意义所在。
That is probably the point.
是为抗疫日记系列之一潜江。
It is one of the diaries of the epidemic.
1月21日，阴雨今天准备离开武汉回潜江了。
January 21, the rainy day ready to leave Wuhan back to the river.
我18号送妻子和女儿小溪回潜江岳母家，母亲也18号经汉口站回了老家恩施市建始县。
I 18 sent his wife and daughter stream back to the mother-in-law's home, mother 18 through Hankou Station back home Enshi County.
按照往年情况，过年期间我也不会再回武汉，但今年公司把年会定在了19号，加之集团严格考勤，只好回去继续上班。
According to the previous year, I will not go back to Wuhan during the New Year, but this year the company set the annual meeting at 19, plus the group's strict attendance, had to go back to work.
没想到年会上领导表示，年会后考勤随意，不做强制要求。
Unexpectedly, the annual meeting leadership said that after the annual attendance at random, do not do mandatory requirements.
从18号开始，冠状病毒的消息已经在朋友圈发酵。
Since the 18th, news of the coronavirus has been fermenting in the circle of friends.
昨天出门，我不仅戴了口罩，还拿了一个红外测温仪（之前给孩子准备的）。
I went out yesterday not only wearing a mask but also carrying an infrared thermometer.
行至半路，同事在群里发了口罩图。
Halfway through the journey, colleagues distributed masks in the group.
知道防霾口罩没用处，只好在京东下单一次性医用口罩，承诺当天送到。
Know that haze mask useless, had to order a disposable medical mask in Jingdong, promised to deliver that day.
下午约了黄建树和百草园书店的老王吃饭，临时取消。
About the afternoon of Huang Jianshu and BaoCaoyuan bookstore Lao Wang eat, temporary cancellation.
回家路上去了几家药店，口罩还有卖的，但都是普通的护理口罩。
On the way home, I went to several pharmacies, masks and sales, but they were all ordinary face masks.
楼下的药店甚至堆了一柜台板蓝根。
The drugstore downstairs even built a counter of slate.
晚上，等京东口罩间隙，刷新闻看到钟南山和白岩松连线，确定人传人了。
Evening, wait for Beijing east mask gap, brush news to see Zhong Nan Shan and Baiyansong wire, confirm person-to-person.
且得知有14名医护人员被感染（两个小时后武汉方面说是15人）。
It was also reported that 14 medical personnel were infected (15, according to Wuhan two hours later).
错愕之下，赶紧按照一个公众号的口罩攻略，去淘宝搜了几个小店，买了一百多个医用外科口罩。
Astonished, according to a public face mask attack, Taobao search a few small shops, bought more than 100 medical surgical masks.
发货时间很晚，就当为年后囤货了。
Shipment time is very late, think for the year after hoarding goods.
六点半醒，看消息，武汉仅新增两人。
Wake up at 6: 30, read the news, Wuhan only two new people.
正诧异间，发现数据是19日22-24时的，昨日新增病例没有公布。
Is surprised to find that the data is on the 19th 22-24 hours, yesterday's new cases were not announced.
一边刷新闻一边收拾行李准备回潜江妻子家，八点半才出发。
Brush the news while packing to go back to his wife's home, 8: 30 before the departure.
路上有雨，走得有点慢。
It rained on the road and walked a little slowly.
到仙桃服务区停留，吃早餐。
Stop in the peach service area and have breakfast.
服务区内有两个志愿者，戴着口罩，旁边放着许多温度计。
There were two volunteers in the service area, wearing masks and thermometers beside them.
大概是让人自测体温的。
Maybe someone took his own temperature.
十一点多下了高速。
It was after eleven o'clock.
没有回家，先去市内转了一圈。
Instead of going home, take a tour of the city first.
昨天妻子交代，要给岳父买烟。
My wife told me yesterday to buy cigarettes for my father-in-law.
导航去中百仓储。
Navigate to 100% Warehousing.
途经三个药店。
Through three pharmacies.
就第一家药店有医用外科口罩，雷士海诺的。
The first drugstore has a medical surgical mask, Reisheno's.
买了40个，48元。
I bought 40 of them for 48 yuan.
比淘宝便宜，于是把昨天淘宝买的退掉了。
Is cheaper than Taobao, so Taobao bought yesterday back.
后两家和武汉类似，都是普通的护理口罩。
The latter two, similar to Wuhan, are common nursing masks.
回家已近中午一点。
It was nearly one o'clock.
潜江整体没有什么危机感（除了药店）。
There is no sense of crisis in the submerged river as a whole (except pharmacies).
岳父岳母都知道这事，但普遍觉得家里还很安全。
Both his father and mother-in-law knew about it, but the general feeling was that the house was safe.
下午四点左右，又去杨市买水果，街上也没人戴口罩。
Around 4 p. m., I went to Yang City to buy some fruit. No one on the street wore masks.
我想起潜江有个诗人朋友杨汉年，在杨市开了一家批发超市。
I think of a poet friend of Qianjiang Yang Han Nian, opened a wholesale supermarket in Yang City.
我导航过去，找到了他的超市。
I navigated it and found his supermarket.
因为戴着口罩，我没有上前打招呼。
I didn't say hello because I was wearing a mask.
妻子和她妹妹买了50块鞭炮。
My wife and her sister bought 50 firecrackers.
妻妹表示杨汉年很好说话，说便宜就便宜了一点。
My wife and sister said Yang Han Nian is very easy to talk, said cheap on a bit cheaper.
我说：“毕竟他是诗人嘛。
I said, "After all, he is a poet.
”妻子堂兄比我晚两个小时到。
My wife and cousin arrived two hours later than I did.
他送他母亲回家，装了点青菜后又要回武汉。
He sent his mother home with some vegetables and wanted to go back to Wuhan.
我们都劝他把妻女接回来，在家过年好了。
We all advised him to take his wife and daughter home for the New Year.
他说妻子还没有放假，没法子，只能回武汉。
He said his wife has not had a holiday, no way, can only go back to Wuhan.
晚上，许多朋友都在问我情况，我回复了几人，又发了一条朋友圈：谢谢朋友们牵挂。
In the evening, many friends are asking me about the situation, I replied to a few people, and sent a circle of friends: Thank you friends worried.
我今天早上已离开武汉（未见咽痛、咳嗽、发烧），应该不会把病毒带出去。
I left Wuhan this morning (no sore throat, cough, fever) and should not have taken the virus out.
希望年后疫情可控，还能回武汉上班。
Hope the outbreak can be controlled after the year, can return to Wuhan to work.
没多久叔叔短信来，问我在哪里。
Soon my uncle came by text and asked me where I was.
我说在潜江，静观其变，随时准备逃回恩施。
I said in the submerged river, wait and see, ready to flee back to grace.
用“逃”这个字，并不夸张，我有种预感，这次新型冠状病毒肺炎不会轻易消停。
The word "escape" is not an exaggeration, I have a presentiment, this time the new coronavirus pneumonia will not stop easily.
在我心里，一直把老家恩施当做最后的依托，任外面腥风血雨，总觉得恩施是安全的。
In my heart, always regard the hometown of Enshi as the last support, let the wind and rain outside, always feel that benevolence is safe.
1月22日，阴雨这两天关注点一直在武汉。
On January 22, Wuhan was the focus of two days of overcast rain.
今天早起，看到黄冈发现了十几例，且有一名医护人员感染。
Early this morning, saw Huanggang found a dozen cases, and a medical staff infected.
到下午，潜江、恩施也有疑似病例。
By the afternoon, Qianjiang and Enshi also had suspected cases.
邻居家的小孩，小名棉棉。
Neighborhood kid, nickname cotton wool.
十岁。
Ten years old.
感冒几天了。
A cold for a few days.
听岳母说是低烧。
My mother-in-law said it was low fever.
我还有点疑心，隔壁的丁正表示无碍。
I'm a little suspicious. Ding Zheng next door means no harm.
他是医学院学生，这一年来在中南医院实习。
He was a medical student and spent the year working as an intern at Zhongnan Hospital.
毕竟是学医的，对我们的惊慌，他颇有点不以为然。
After all, he was a medical student, and he rather disapproved of our alarm.
我的忐忑，一方面是因为病毒本身，更重要的，是因为风波的中心在武汉，有种“置身大风暴”下的激动。
I perturbed, partly because of the virus itself, more importantly, because the center of the storm in Wuhan, a kind of "exposed to the storm" under the excitement.
但我多么希望这风暴永远不要到来。
But how I wish the storm would never come.
潜江阴雨不停，太冷了，我尽量带着小溪室内活动。
The submerged river is cloudy and rainy. It's too cold. I try to carry the stream indoors.
妻子却总想带她去楼下院子。
My wife always wanted to take her downstairs to the yard.
上一次体检时，医生说小溪两眼屈光度不一致，需要多看远方。
During the last physical examination, the doctor said that the creek had inconsistent diopter and needed to look further afield.
我缩在屋里翻朋友圈，拍记录片的朋友春林发了一段话：三天前还跟同在武汉的朋友们乐观地讨论疫情，结果隔天就被打脸。
I huddled in the room to turn over friends, filming the documentary friend Chun Lin sent a paragraph: three days ago with friends in Wuhan optimistic discussions about the outbreak, the next day was hit face.
一个大学的朋友许真回复说：人在病毒这玩意面前太渺小了（一开始大家也不咋可能对它有全面的认知——这本来也是个超级专业的事情），没想到这玩意短短一两个星期就发展到人际之间传播了（最早期的病例确实没有人际之间传播，比如报道出来的一个23岁的重症患者，他姐姐一直照顾他也没有感染）。
A friend of a university, Xu Zhen, replied: People are so small in the face of the virus (and people may not know it all at first - it's a super-professional thing) that it takes only a week or two for it to spread from person to person (the earliest cases do not really spread from person to person, like a reported 23-year-old patient whose sister has taken care of him uninfected).
其实病毒也在求生存，它的“进化”能力也更强。
Viruses are actually surviving, and their ability to "evolve" is stronger.
这是大家万万没有想到的，朋友黄建树坐火车回山东岳父母家了。
This is everybody did not think of, friend Huang Jianshu took the train back to Shandong parents-in-law's home.
晚上和他聊天，他和我差不多，几乎闭门不出。
Chatting with him in the evening, he was almost as close as I was, almost closed.
何时能回武汉？我们都有些悲观。
When will we go back to Wuhan? We are all a little pessimistic.
1月23日，阴雨武汉封城了。
On January 23, the city of Wuhan was closed in overcast rain.
半夜的消息。
Midnight news.
我看到时举着手机呆住了，一时不敢相信是真的。
When I saw it, I was petrified with my mobile phone and could not believe it for a moment.
只在电影或者小说里见过封城，有生之年竟然能亲历，而且是自己生活了十几年、前天刚刚离开的城。
I have only seen it in movies or novels, and I have seen it myself in my lifetime, and I have lived in the city I left the day before yesterday.
通告说，早上10点开始，市内公共交通、长途汽车站、火车站、机场关闭。
Public transportation, long-distance bus stops, train stations and airports in the city are closed from 10 a.m., the notice said.
死亡人数也翻番了。
The death toll has doubled.
昨天只有9人，今天是17人。
Yesterday, there were only nine. Today, there are 17.
全国各地疑似人员都是几个，几十个。
Suspected personnel all over the country are a few, dozens.
朋友圈的反馈是，武汉的医院住满了。
Feedback from friends is that hospitals in Wuhan are full.
也看到有消息说医院不收，不知真假。
Also saw the news that the hospital does not accept, inauthentic.
留在武汉的朋友不少。
There are many friends left in Wuhan.
有一个表弟，在楚河汉街一家“大菊铁板烧”上班。
There is a cousin, in Chu Han Street, a "Daju iron plate burning" work.
前不久经人介绍，谈了一个女朋友。
Recently, I was introduced to a girl friend.
腊月十七提的亲，原来计划正月初四回家定亲（恩施方言叫“看地方”），看来要耽搁。
Lai month 17 of the relatives, originally planned to return home early January 4 engagement (Enshi dialect called "see the place"), seems to be delayed.
同事杨晨怀孕快九个月了，挺着大肚子在家——就是疫区的收治中心金银潭附近——早上突然说，老公早上发烧。
Co-worker Yang Chen pregnancy nearly nine months, full stomach at home - that is, near the treatment center near the gold and silver pool - the morning said that my husband had a fever in the morning.
她一片茫然，还不敢让自己父亲知道，只是让老公家人送饭到门口，他们去取了吃。
She was too dazed to let her father know, just let her husband's family to send food to the door, they went to get food.
且两人各在一个房间。
And they were in the same room.
隔得太远，我们只能口头安慰，顺便帮她声讨她老公：他开了空调躺床上，觉得越来越冷，温度丝毫不见降低。
Too far away, we can only verbally comfort her husband: he opened the air-conditioned bed, feel increasingly cold, the temperature has not decreased.
杨晨见他反常，进去发现他竟然开了制冷。
When Yang Chen saw that he was abnormal, he went in and found that he had turned on the refrigeration.
我茫然不安之外，又有一种荒诞感，未来无可给与，只剩下一些当下的惶恐瞬间。
I am at a loss, there is a sense of absurdity, the future has nothing to give, only a few moment of fear of the moment.
我对妻子说，如果潜江也不安全了，就回恩施吧。
I told my wife that if it wasn't safe to dive into the river, I would go back to charity.
回到山里，鸡犬不相闻，自然没有感染。
Back in the mountains, the dogs do not smell natural infection.
妻子反问：现实吗？你回去也不过回到老家景阳镇上，人流不比现在多？她说的没错，我哥在镇上开家超市，这两天生意最好。
Reality? You can't go back to your hometown Jingyang town without more people than now? She's right. My brother runs a supermarket in town. These are the best days.
一天接触的人怎么说也有五六百。
There were five or six hundred people contacted in a day.
隐患极大。
Very hidden danger.
昨天我在家里的群说最好关门歇业。
My group at home yesterday said it would be better to close the door.
他完全没有理会。
He paid no attention.
到了小城小镇，危机感确实锐降。
In the small town, the sense of crisis really plummeted.
办公室另外一个同事，昨天还去参加了一场婚礼。
Another colleague from the office also went to a wedding yesterday.
她让家里人少出门，戴口罩。
She asked her family to go out less often and wear masks.
还被她爸说了一通。
She was told by her father.
但事实上，武汉周边城市，感染量不会比北上广少吧。
But in fact, Wuhan surrounding cities, the number of infections will not be more than the northbound Guangxi bar.
但防护程度、重视程度都低太多了。
But the degree of protection, the degree of attention is too low.
很有可能，接下来一段时间会大规模增长。
It is likely that there will be large-scale growth in the coming period.
妻子的堂兄前天去的武汉，原计划在武汉过年。
Wife's cousin the day before yesterday to Wuhan, originally planned to celebrate the New Year in Wuhan.
封城之后，发现超市无菜可买，遂决定回来，可能开车到了武汉西，发现高速也已封闭，只好折回武汉。
After the closure of the city, found no vegetables supermarket to buy, so decided to return, probably driving to Wuhan West, found that the highway has also been closed, had to turn back to Wuhan.
有让人感动的消息：湖南、上海、四川的医生紧急驰援。
There is moving news: Hunan, Shanghai, Sichuan doctors rushed to help.
看到朋友圈的图，上海的首批医师坐高铁，今天晚上就能抵达。
Seeing a picture of a circle of friends, Shanghai's first doctors on the high-speed train will arrive tonight.
也有让人不安的消息。
There is also disturbing news.
微信群“川鄂情”里，有深圳的师姐转发深圳小区的聊天截图。
The micro-faith group "Sichuan Er situation", there is Shenzhen's teacher sister forward the chatting screenshot of Shenzhen community.
深圳市南山区科苑学里科技苑58区住宅楼已经发了通知，凡是发现鄂字头车、410开头的身份证号，一律上报，禁入。
Notice has been issued to residential buildings in Area 58, Xueli Science and Technology Court, Nanshan District, Shenzhen. All identification numbers of the first 410 E-mail drive have been reported and banned.
周围所有的人都在讨论封城。
Everyone around was talking about the cityscape.
这个消息太大了，足够引起一个普通农民的关注。
The news is big enough to attract the attention of an average farmer.
和岳父母说，今年就不要出门了。
I told my parents-in-law not to go out this year.
门口就是菜园，不需要去菜市场。
A garden at the door does not require a vegetable market.
岳母早做了准备。
Mother-in-law had already prepared.
早上她已经把过年的肉卤好，够吃到正月十五。
In the morning she had eaten the gravy until the fifteenth day of the first month.
之前买了许多鱼，以鲫鱼为主，全部喂在后面的大水缸里。
Before bought a lot of fish, to carp-based, all fed in the big water tank behind.
岳父说，没有鱼粮，只是养着而已。
His father-in-law said there was no fish food, just food.
可能在它们变瘦之前，才能全部吃完。
Maybe they can all be eaten before they get thinner.
湖北潜江杨市刁庙村，门口的菜园红外体温计我也带回了潜江。
Hubei Qiaomiao village of Qiaomiao City, Qiujiang City, Hubei Province, the kitchen garden infrared thermometer I also brought back the river.
拿出来想给每个人测体温。
Take it out and try to take everybody's temperature.
温度太低，手焐探头加热了两分钟，温度计才回归正常。
The temperature was too low, and the probe was heated for two minutes before the thermometer returned to normal.
给家里每个人测了一遍，都正常。
Take a test of everyone in the house. It's all right.
接下来几天肯定不出门了。
I'm sure I won't go out for the next few days.
带了四本书回来：《冬泳》《夜的命名术》《红发女人》《天真和伤感的小说家》，接下来几天，就安心读书带娃吧。
Come back with four books: The Winter Swimming, The Nomenclature of the Night, The Red-haired Woman, The Innocent and Sad Novelist.
七点半，看到《潜江市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部1号令》，其中有一条：落实农村、社区等基层地区防控措施。
At 7: 30, I saw the "new-style coronavirus infection of the Pneumonia Command 1", one of which: implementation of rural, community and other grass-roots control measures.
自即日起，各级村委会、居委会每日走访了解常住人口、外来人口和返乡人员的健康状况，发现发热、咳嗽的人员迅速登记上报，并提醒其尽快到医疗机构就诊。
Since then, village committees and neighborhood committees at all levels have paid daily visits to check on the health status of the resident population, the migrant population and returnees.
明天会有人来走访我吗？1月24日，除夕从来没有想到，会过一个充满不安的除夕。
Will someone come to visit me tomorrow? January 24th, New Year's Eve, never expected, will be filled with uneasiness of New Year's Eve.
早上看到的最让人心痛的消息，说试剂盒完全不够用，以致部分疑似病人无法确诊。
The most heartrending news this morning was that the kit was so inadequate that some suspected patients could not be diagnosed.
只能“不排除感染”，然后放病人出去，交叉感染隐患极大。
Can only "not exclude infection," and then let the patient out, cross-infection hidden danger is extremely great.
这是《人物》的报道。
This is the story of People.
这意味着，一旦试剂盒足够，武汉确诊患者会大幅度增加。
This means that once test kits are sufficient, Wuhan patients diagnosed will increase significantly.
潜江的年味还是很浓的。
The smell of the buried river is still very strong.
孩子们有很多鞭炮玩；除夕当天要洗澡，从头到脚，焕然一新之意；不过并无年夜饭，而是年午饭：中午两三点吃饭，饭毕上香、清扫，再就是打麻将了。
The children had plenty of firecrackers to play with; they had to bathe from head to foot on New Year's Eve, but there was no New Year's Eve dinner, but lunch at two or three o'clock at noon, with incense and cleaning, and then mahjong.
周围的人麻将瘾极大，家家户户都有电动麻将桌，对他们来说，过年在很大程度上就等于打麻将（平时打得少，因为大家都在外地工作，凑不齐一桌）。
For those around them who are addicted to mahjong and who have electric mahjong tables in every house, the Spring Festival is largely the equivalent of playing Mahjong.
除夕当天，吃了年午饭，雷打不动的一场麻将，一直到深夜，晚上是不吃饭的。
New Year's Eve, eat lunch, thunderous mahjong, until late at night, is not eating.
三点多，与母亲视频。
More than three o'clock with mother video.
她18号回的恩施（建始县景阳镇），之前完全没有意识到危机，也没有隔离。
She returned to Enshi on the 18th (Jingyang Township, Jianshi County), completely unaware of the crisis and without segregation.
这两天意识到严重性了，问了我一些情况。
The last two days, aware of the seriousness of the situation, asked me something.
我主要告诉他们，明天不要回老家拜年了。
I mainly told them not to visit their hometown tomorrow.
族里有个奶奶，去年十二月过世，按照风俗，正月初一她的子侄应该齐聚，回家“拜新年”。
There was a grandmother who died last December. It was the custom for her nephew to gather on the first day of the first month and return home to worship the New Year.
母亲同意明天不出门，又问我年后安排。
My mother agreed not to go out tomorrow, and asked me what I would do next year.
现在的情况看，年后我们也很难按时上班，且让母亲在家多带些天吧。
As things stand, it will be hard for us to get to work on time and let my mother take more days at home.
今年因为我在，岳母下午六点多竟然下了牌桌，回来热饭给我们吃。
This year, my mother-in-law left the card table at more than 6 p. m., and returned to cook for us.
饭后给小溪洗完澡，回到楼上，春晚如期举行，前些年，哪怕是为了吐槽，也会有一搭没一搭看几个节目。
After a bath for the creek, back upstairs, Chunwan held as scheduled, in previous years, even to spit, there will be a number of programmes together.
今年心境不同了，一个画面也没有看。
This year the mood is different, not a screen.
朋友圈的C一直在筹措物资，护目镜防护服消毒液连花清瘟胶囊，等等，支援一些医院。
Friends Circle C has been raising supplies, goggles protective clothing disinfectant even Huaqing distemper capsule, and so on, to support some hospitals.
她们人在武汉城内。
They were inside Wuhan.
好像筹了十几万个口罩，但三证不符合要求，没法捐出，只能对接给一些大的机构。
Seems to raise tens of thousands of masks, but three certificates do not meet the requirements, can not be donated, can only dock to some large institutions.
下午六点四十九，她发朋友圈：“一线的医护一边哭，一边我这送不了，难受！”现在她又在呼吁，捐赠的需要三证齐全。
At 6: 49 p.m., she sent out a circle of friends: "The first line of medical care while crying, while I can not deliver, uncomfortable!" Now she is appealing, donation needs three complete.
看到一张武汉人省内流入城市图。
See a Wuhan province flow into the city map.
黄冈、孝感居前列，恩施比较靠后，潜江则更后。
Huanggang, filial piety in the front, Enshi later, the river even more.
我岳母所在的刁庙一队，从武汉回来的人不少，就我所知，除了我、妻子、女儿小溪，还有隔壁的丁正和王艺。
My mother-in-law's Diaomiao Temple team, a lot of people back from Wuhan, I know, in addition to my wife, daughter stream, but also next door Dingzheng and Wang Yi.
这个比例不能算低。
That proportion cannot be considered low.
现在很多人和媒体注意到了武汉周边城市圈，尤其是农村的疫情。
Now a lot of people and media attention to Wuhan peripheral urban areas, especially the rural epidemic.
睡前，看到潜江发布了二号令。
Before I went to bed, I saw Diaojiang issuing two orders.
第三条说：各地政府要安排1名领导带班、2名工作人员、2名公安干警、2名医护人员，实行24小时轮班，对返乡人员询问来历、检测体温、登记信息。
Article 3 The local governments shall arrange for a leading squad, two staff members, two public security policemen and two medical personnel to conduct round-the-clock round-the-clock round-the-clock work to question returnees, check their temperature and register information.
各地要督促村（社区）取消一切群体性宴席、集会，广泛动员市民不外出、不聚会、不串门，出门一定戴口罩。
All localities should urge villages (communities) to cancel all mass feasts and gatherings, and widely mobilize the public not to go out, meet, or visit the door, must wear masks.
昨天的一号令也提到了这一点。
This was also mentioned in yesterday's decree.
只是今天没有人来。
Only nobody came today.
我竟然隐隐有点期待。
I was vaguely expecting something.
也许是想以此来看潜江的重视程度，以巩固自己的安全感。
Perhaps it is to see the importance of the river in order to consolidate their sense of security.
毕竟，疫期大概率要长住于此。
After all, there is a high probability that the epidemic will last.
1月25日，阴天正月初一。
January 25th, the first day of the cloudy month.
从武汉回来第五日。
Back from Wuhan the fifth day.
潜江目前无感染，但最近的天门有3例确诊。
There is no infection in the submerged river, but three recent cases were confirmed in Tianmen.
昨天上午，妹夫开车回了天门。
My brother-in-law drove back to Tianmen yesterday morning.
他是上门女婿，家里只有一个老母亲，放心不下，除夕年饭没吃就走了。
He is the son-in-law, the family has only one old mother, worried, New Year's Eve meal did not eat left.
早上，岳父电话他，得知天门回潜江路已经封锁，这几天回不来了。
In the morning, his father-in-law called him and learned that Tianmen Road back to the submerged river has been blocked, these days can not go back.
恩施已有11例。
There have been 11 cases of Enshi.
父母在家，没有外出拜年。
My parents are at home and do not visit New Year.
两个姨父、两个舅舅、外公外婆和父母在一个小镇，相隔几百米，都没有走动。
Two aunts, two uncles, my grandparents and my parents were in a small town a few hundred metres apart, not moving.
可见媒体的全面报道还是有用的——而在此之前，他们是天天聚会的。
It is clear that full media coverage is useful - they had been meeting every day before.
现在隔离在家，也算亡羊补牢。
It's better to be in seclusion now.
其实我最担心的是我母亲，她1月18日从汉口站回家，没有任何防护。
My mother, who came home from Hankou on January 18 without any protection, was the one I was most worried about.
其时，武汉的感染已有不少，只是没有引起人们注意。
At that time, Wuhan had a lot of infections, but did not attract people's attention.
昨天鞭炮炸了半夜，小溪睡得还好。
The stream slept well after the firecracker blew up at midnight yesterday.
只是早上起来，打喷嚏流鼻涕，昨晚洗澡，她大概着了一点凉。
Just got up in the morning, sneezed, had a runny nose, took a shower last night, and probably had a cold.
想起12月28日，离武汉报道新病毒感染还有两天，根据现在的消息反推，其时武汉已经有不少感染。
Think of December 28, Wuhan reported a new virus infection two days away, according to the current news back, by that time Wuhan has a lot of infection.
那天下午，我们还在外文书店聚会做活动。
That afternoon, we also had a party at the Foreign Language Bookstore.
活动之后在首义路艳阳天宵夜，大家举杯说，最难的2019年已经过去。
After the event, everyone raised their glasses to say that the most difficult year 2019 was over.
哪里想得到，2020年开年会到此种境地。
No one would have expected this to happen at the start of the year 2020.
看书不大有心情，也完全没有写诗的情景。
Reading is not in a good mood, and there is no scene of writing poetry at all.
当此之际，只觉得茫然无力。
When this time, only feel dazed.
一介书生，困守小村，白天带娃，抽空看新闻。
A Jie Shu student, keep small village, take baby by day, take time to watch news.
除了忧心，竟然不知道可以做点什么。
I don't know what I can do except worry.
和岳父母谈到潜江的防控，他们说，昨天深夜，有工作人员来发过传单。
Talking with his parents-in-law about the prevention and control of the river, they said that late yesterday night, workers came to hand out leaflets.
传单在外面窗内，是潜江市委市政府的倡议书，落款时间是1月22日。
Leaflet in the outside window, is the initiative of the municipal government of Qianjiang City, the signing time is January 22.
总结了四点：“要警惕，不轻视，少出门，少聚集；勤洗手，戴口罩，讲卫生，多锻炼；早发现，早诊断，早隔离，早治疗；不恐慌，不造谣，不信谣，不传谣。
Four points were summed up: "Be vigilant, not despise, go out less, gather less; wash hands frequently, wear masks, clean water, exercise more; early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation, early treatment; no panic, no rumors, no rumors, no rumors.
”下午两点，终于有人上门统计返乡人员信息。
At two o'clock in the afternoon, someone finally came home to check on returning home.
我在屋内抱小溪，出来时人已经转去别家了。
I carried the brook in my house, and when I came out, the man had turned to another house.
等他折返，我们拦下他，说明了自己的情况。
When he turned around, we stopped him and explained our situation.
他说本来只统计从武汉返乡的本地人，没有统计流动人口——我们户籍不在潜江，只能算流动人口。
He said that the original statistics only from Wuhan returned home, there is no statistics on the floating population - we are not resident in the river, can only be counted floating population.
从他那里得知，刁庙一组共70余户人家，从武汉回来的人不少，他只统计1月10号后返回的，共有十人，算上我们三个流动的，计13人。
From him, Diao Miao a group of more than 70 families, a large number of people returned from Wuhan, he only counted after January 10, a total of 10 people, including our three mobile, 13 people.
他叫郑玉堂，是一组的工作人员。
His name is Zheng Yutang. He is a team worker.
临走，我加了他微信。
Before I left, I added a letter to him.
郑玉堂刚走，来了一辆宣传车，播报的还是倡议书里的内容。
Zheng Yutang just left, came a propaganda car, or broadcast the contents of the proposal.
回去看新闻，从梁文涛微信里看到了潜江的疫情通报，潜江市疾控中心发的，说截至上午8时，发现疑似病例51例，其中14例经过市疾控中心完成初筛，已经送往省疾控中心复检。
Back to read the news, from Liang Wentao micro-letter to see the disease notification, Qianjiang City CDC issued by the Qianjiang City CDC, said as of 8 a.m., found 51 suspected cases, of which 14 cases have been completed by the CDC, has been sent to the provincial CDC for re-inspection.
梁文涛在潜江媒体工作，信息更新得比较快。
Liang Wentao works in the submerged river media, the information is updated relatively quickly.
转发的潜江指挥部4号令说，晚上24点，暂时关闭全市高速公路出口通道，封闭全市国、省干线进出口通道及周边县市相连的通村公路。
Forwarded the submerged river command order 4, said that at 24 p.m., the city's expressway exits were temporarily closed, the whole city, the main import and export routes and the neighboring counties and cities connected to the village road.
这算是真正的封城了。
This is the real cityscape.
武汉市也出了九号通告，26日0时起，中心城区禁止机动车通行。
Wuhan City also issued the ninth notice, 26 from 0, the central city is banned from motor vehicles.
市民确有通行需求的，按指挥部第八号通告执行，各社区配备足够车辆保障需求。
If there is a genuine need for transportation, it shall be carried out in accordance with Circular VIII of the Command.
八号通告大意是，武汉市调拨6000辆出租车，每个社区3-5台，由社区居委会统一调派，为辖区居民出行提供免费服务。
Notice No. 8 is to the effect that Wuhan city allocates 6000 taxis, 3-5 in each community, which will be assigned by the neighborhood committees to provide free services to residents of the district.
不过，没过太久，又发了新通知，说“对禁止通行从车辆通告车主，对未通告的车辆一律实行通行”。
However, it was not long before a new notice was issued stating that "no traffic shall be notified from the vehicle to the owner and that no vehicles shall be allowed to pass through without notice."
这算是留有余地吧。
There's room for manoeuvre.
我们想象的疫情已经很严重了，接着的一条新闻，也在印证疫情的严重性：今天下午3点半，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部举行调度会，决定在武汉蔡甸火神山医院之外，半个月之内再建一所“小汤山医院”——武汉雷神山医院，新增床位1300张。
At 3: 30 this afternoon, the command for the prevention and control of pneumonia related to the new coronavirus infection in Wuhan held a meeting at 3: 30 p.m. today and decided to build a "Xiaotangshan Hospital," Wuhan Raytheon Mountain Hospital, with an additional 1,300 beds, within half a month.
火神山，雷神山，空荡荡的街市，统一调配的出租车。
Fire god mountain, thunder god mountain, empty market, unified deployment of taxis.
恍如隔世，人不在武汉，这种恍惚更增几分。
Once in a blue moon, the person is not in Wuhan, this kind of trance increases a bit.
我希望自己此时在武汉。
I wish I were in Wuhan now.
身在武汉的感觉，和我身在潜江也并无两样：一样的不能出门，不能上高速；一样的自我观察，自我隔离；一样的孤岛体验。
The feeling of being in Wuhan is the same as that of being in a submerged river: the same cannot go out, cannot go on high speed; the same self-observation, self-isolation; the same island experience.
如果说有区别，不过是潜江多几个人，楼下有孩子喧闹，门口有个菜园，有岳母做饭。
If there is a difference, but a few more diving river, downstairs noisy children, there is a vegetable garden, there is mother-in-law cooking.
仅此而已。
That's all.
前面提到过的许真，是大学老师，一位特别淳朴、酒量一般、去年生了二胎的朋友，早上7：20，他发朋友圈，说自己回到学校家中，遵医嘱居家隔离。
Xu Zhen, a college teacher, a very simple, moderate-drinking friend who had a second child last year, sent out a circle of friends at 7: 20 in the morning, saying he had returned to his school home and was under medical orders to stay in seclusion.
老家亦安排妥当。
Home is also arranged.
我还没当回事，晚上19：18，他更新消息，只有一句：我需要帮助。
I wasn't serious. At 19: 18 p. m., he updated the news with only one line: I need help.
20：08，又更新了一条：学院已经在想办法。
20: 08, and a new one: the academy is already working on it.
诸位容我休息。
Let me rest, gentlemen.
他已经感染。
He's infected.
我第一时间告诉了我们共同的朋友聂文，彼此都觉得无力。
The first time I told our common friend Nie Wen, we both felt weak.
只能留言说，等他下次更新朋友圈。
All I can say is wait till he updates his circle of friends next time.
聂文在武穴，一直在朋友圈转发各种求助消息。
Nie Wen in Wuxue, has been forwarding various help messages in the circle of friends.
她对我说：“最近才发现我特么那么爱武汉。
She said to me: "Only recently discovered that I love Wuhan so much.
才发现那么爱朋友们。
I found out how much I love my friends.
”我说：“我一直特别爱武汉。
"I have always loved Wuhan," I said.
”这倒不是最近焦虑生出的眷念，我以前在诗里写过：我爱每一个我住过的地方。
It is not the remembrance of my recent anxieties, which I have written before in this poem: I love every place where I have lived.
我在武汉住了十几年，我的爱情、我的家庭、我的朋友、我的写作都在那里。
I have lived in Wuhan for more than ten years. My love, my family, my friends and my writing are there.
另一个朋友在朋友圈说：“尽管在武汉读书工作三十多年，对这座永远在建设中的城市并没有多少好感，一直把自己当作它的过客。
"Another friend in the circle of friends said:" Although I have been studying in Wuhan for more than 30 years, I have no good feeling for this city which is always under construction.
这次回老家过年，不知道何时才能返回时，才觉得武汉是那么美，那么丰富。
This time back home New Year, do not know when to return to, just feel that Wuhan is so beautiful, so rich.
封城之后的武汉空旷而神秘。
Wuhan after the closure of the city is empty and mysterious.
”他这种隔离在外生出的爱，大概和聂文类似。
The love which this isolation produced was probably similar to that of Nie Wen.
下午嗓子有点发干（希望是因为烤火太久上了火），后来竟然觉得头晕，测体温还正常。
I had a dry throat in the afternoon (I hope it was too long because of the fire), then felt dizzy and had my temperature taken.
妻子见我头晃来晃去，半是忧心半是嫌弃，让我明天再加一条裤子。
My wife saw my head dangling, half worried and half disgusted, let me add a pair of pants tomorrow.
这两天我时时觉得自己生病了，身体每一点异常都要回味、感觉很久。
These two days I always feel sick, every abnormal body must be remembered, feel for a long time.
希望无碍，接下来一周无碍，就可以解除隔离了。
Hopefully, the next week will be fine, and you can unlock the isolation.
临睡，看到许真更新了朋友圈：“已到医院。
Before going to bed, I saw Xu Zhen renew his circle of friends.
”希望他平安。
I hope he is safe.
1月26日，阴天正月初二。
January 26, cloudy second day of the first month.
早上起来，精神不错。
Wake up in the morning and feel good.
昨晚种种郁结一扫而光。
The tangle was swept away last night.
听妻子的话，加了衣服。
Listen to my wife and add some clothes.
原来计划初四左右回武汉，衣物带得少。
Originally planned to return to Wuhan on or about the fourth day of clothing.
也低估了潜江的寒冷，无裤子可加了。
Also underestimated the river's cold, no pants to add.
岳母找了一条棉裤给我，红色。
My mother-in-law found me a pair of cotton pants, red.
反正隔离在家不出门，我很乐意地穿上了。
Isolated at home anyway, I'm happy to put it on.
妹夫还没有回来。
My brother-in-law has not returned.
我告知妻妹，天门昨日增加两例。
I told my wife and sister that Tianmen increased two cases yesterday.
她倒不太担心——也许是无暇担心。
She was not too worried - perhaps not.
她带两个孩子，大的三年级，还算懂事；小的才一岁，每天也缠在她身上。
She had two children, the eldest of three, sensible enough; the youngest, a year old, was haunted by her every day.
岳父母有时会搭手，但也只是搭手而已，主要消耗还是在她身上。
His parents-in-law sometimes fought, but it was a handshake, and the main expense was on her.
同事文娟转来杨黎的武汉诗人访谈，问我们有没有类似的操作。
Colleagues Wenjuan transferred to Yang Li's Wuhan poet interview, asked us whether there is a similar operation.
我老实回答说没有，力有不逮，也无心情。
I answered truthfully that I was in no mood, not in a hurry.
她说《收获》想约她写封城记，但人不在武汉，就拒绝了。
She said Harvest wanted to ask her to write a story about the city, but the man was not in Wuhan, so she refused.
我把昨天日记转她看。
I turned over yesterday's diary to her.
和她讨论这种文字有没有价值。
Discuss the value of this writing with her.
可能有一点意义，一点而已，不大。
It could be a little point. a little, not much.
封城之际，只有个人的视角和经验，被动接受各种消息，真伪难定。
The closure of the city, only personal perspective and experience, passively accept all kinds of information, truth and falsehood hard to determine.
至于政府、民间的各种通告和推送，不乏常理之外的，个人也难评判。
As for the various announcements and tweets made by the government and the people, there is no lack of common sense.
但忠实于个人经验的观察，起码保证了诚实，也算一个窗口。
But observation faithful to personal experience, at least, guarantees honesty and is a window.
这大概是那一点意义所在。
That is probably the point.
文娟是文艺学硕士，最后总结道：“这就是技术的吊诡。
Wenjuan is a master of arts and art, concluded: "This is a paradox of technology.
一方面身体隔绝起来，除了在小空间里吃喝拉撒什么也看不到，一方面网络上真真假假足，信息滔天冲撞而来。
On the one hand, the body is isolated, except in a small space to eat, drink and sap nothing to see, on the one hand, the network is true and false, information bursts.
人在这中间，好分裂啊。
Man is in the middle. He's split up.
”一个人触角确实太少。
"One man has too few tentacles.
日记写了一周，其实写我个人不多，准确说应该是“我和我的朋友们”。
The diary was written for a week, in fact, I do not write a lot of individuals, accurately said that "I and my friends."
写朋友，则涉及隐私。
Writing friends is about privacy.
吃完早餐，我把昨天日记发在了个人朋友圈。
After breakfast, I posted yesterday's diary to my friends.
很快许真发消息来，说不想以这种方式为人所知，让我修改。
Soon a message came that I didn't want to be known in this way and let me modify it.
我既喜且愧。
I am both happy and guilty.
喜的是他有暇关注这个，说明在医院状态尚好；愧的是在医院还要为这个劳神。
Happily, he was able to pay attention to it, indicating that he was in good condition in the hospital; he was sorry to have to worry about it.
我修改时隐去他的名字和单位，给他道歉，相约安定后在武汉一聚。
When I modify his name and unit hidden, give him an apology, after the stability of a meeting in Wuhan.
照例，在单位群里汇报今天情况。
As usual, report today in the unit group.
杨晨私聊我，说今天发烧了。
Yang Chen whispered that I had a fever today.
我惊讶莫名，回给她一串省略号。
Surprised, I gave her a string of ellipses.
很快想到前几天她老公发烧，刚降下去，可能不是肺炎。
Soon thought of the other day her husband had a fever, has just come down, may not be pneumonia.
她自己也比较乐观，说隔几分钟量一次体温。
She herself was optimistic, saying she would take her temperature every few minutes.
除了发烧，就是腰酸，这是孕期正常症状。
In addition to fever, is lumbar acid, this is the normal symptoms of pregnancy.
午饭后，昨天来统计消息的郑玉堂带着村支书上门。
After lunch, yesterday came to statistics Zheng Yutang with the village branch book door.
先发了一沓口罩。
First came a wad of masks.
全是字母，mascarilla faciales，desechable。
It's all letters, mascarilla faciales desectable.
网上搜索没搜出来，可能是用于出口的？村支书也不知道，只说是上面发的。
Internet search did not find, may be used for export? Village branch book do not know, just said it is above.
发完口罩，重新登记了我们的信息：姓名，身份证号，回汉时间，电话。
After the mask, re-registered our message: name, identity number, back to Han time, phone number.
表上有“随访人”“包保人”栏。
On the form is the "Follow-up" and "Grantor" column.
大概是定点落实到人。
It was probably a targeted execution.
隔壁棉棉病还没好。
Cotton disease next door is not all right.
岳母说是普通感冒，低烧，每天去杨市医院打吊瓶。
His mother-in-law said it was a common cold, low fever, every day to Yang City Hospital bottles.
回潜江第一天，她来玩过一次，我看精神尚好。
Back on the first day of diving river, she came to play, I think the spirit is good.
这么长时间没好，我很想去问下消息，被岳母阻止了。
So long not good, I would like to ask the news, was stopped by his mother-in-law.
说棉棉身体底子差，以前一感冒也是这么久。
Said cotton wool bottom of the body is bad, before a cold is so long.
在群里问父母消息，小镇也已高度戒备，街上几乎没人。
Ask parents in the group, the town is also on high alert, the streets are almost empty.
我哥的超市还开着门，生意照做。
My brother's supermarket is still open and business is as usual.
他本来有不少口罩，之前卖光了，自己已没有用的。
He used to have a lot of masks, but he sold them out before.
镇上的几家药店都关了门，无处买口罩。
Several pharmacies in the town have closed their doors and have nowhere to buy masks.
街上的人自然都戴着口罩，可是多半是重复使用，做不到四个小时一换。
People in the street naturally wear masks, but most of them are re-used and do not change in less than four hours.
农村物资短缺，应该是普遍情况。
Rural shortages should be the norm.
几天前武汉尚无口罩可买，何况僻远的农村。
Wuhan had no masks to buy a few days ago, not to mention the remote countryside.
我手上还有四十多个闲置口罩，试了一下顺丰，已经不能收件了。
I still have more than 40 unused masks in my hand. I tried Shunfeng and couldn't get them anymore.
今天刷新闻不及前几天频繁。
Brush the news less frequently today than in previous days.
朋友圈武汉人居多，这会儿，很多人都在讨论外地人隔离、拒绝湖北人的消息。
Wuhan friends circle more people, now, a lot of people are discussing the isolation of outsiders, Hubei people rejected the news.
看了让人不适。
It's uncomfortable to watch.
高速关闸门，国道设路障，县道、乡道最简陋：一堆泥土和石块足矣。
High-speed sluice gates, state road barricades, county roads, rural roads the most primitive: a pile of earth and stones enough.
南宁的璞闾，从昨晚一直在关注南宁对湖北人的态度，后来她转发的南宁对湖北及到访的游客安排须知，所有湖北籍游客统一安置在乡村大世界度假村入住，广东湛江的徐闻县处理与此类似。
Nanning Pu Ru, from last night, has been concerned about Nanning's attitude towards Hubei people. Later, she forwarded a notice to Hubei and visitors that all Hubei tourists live in the Village Grand World Resort. Xu Wen County in Zhanjiang, Guangdong Province handles similar matters.
在上海的诗人朋友冰马，经营一家民宿，有16个房间。
Hippo, a poet friend in Shanghai, runs a residential house with 16 rooms.
他发了微信文章推送，说可以贡献出来给非从疫区出发的湖北人住。
He sent a message saying that he could contribute to the people of Hubei who did not leave the epidemic area.
写点开心的事。
Write something fun.
小溪一岁一个月。
The stream is one month old.
回家之后，裹成了一个圆球，仍然热衷下地。
Home, wrapped in a ball, is still enthusiastic about the ground.
尤其喜欢爬楼梯。
Especially like climbing stairs.
回来的头两天，要扶她腋下走；这两天只需要轻轻提着她的手，稍作控制引导；偶尔放开她，她也能摇晃着走两步；我疑心她已可以走路，只是不敢放开我们的手。
For the first two days of her return, hold her armpit; these two days, with a gentle touch of her hand and a little control; let go of her once in a while, and walk two paces; I doubt if she can walk, but dare not let go of our hands.
这两天她睡眠亦好。
She has slept well these two days.
今天下午更是破天荒睡了两个小时。
This afternoon was the first two hours of sleep.
晚上八点半入睡，到现在十点半，也一次没醒。
I went to bed at 8: 30 at night and didn't wake up at half past ten.
这几天的宅居，和我以前的假日生活并无两样。
These days of home life, and my previous holiday life is no different.
心神不宁，除了对身体反应的敏感，更多是因为外面的风暴：时时更新的病例增长和死亡带来的幻灭感，各种消息铺天盖地带来的隔世感。
Disillusionment, apart from sensitivity to physical reactions, is more due to storms outside: disillusionment with the ever-increasing number of cases and death, the sense of alienation that comes with all kinds of news.
张执浩老师在朋友圈说：“现在不仅时间过得特别慢，网速也很慢了。
"Not only is the time passing so slowly, but the speed of the Internet is slow," Zhang said in a group of friends.
这才封城几天啊，就给人以恍若隔世之感。
This only a few days, it gives people a sense of seclusion.
冷清，寂静，时不时能听见自己的心跳。
Cold, silent, sometimes can hear their own heartbeat.
”武汉的90后诗人喻诗颖在后面留言：“感觉我家水压都变小了。
"Wuhan 90 Poet Yu Yingying after the message:" I feel my water pressure has become smaller.
”因为许真，我们重新在一个荒废已久的群里交流。
"Because Xu Zhen, we re-established communication in a long-neglected group.
聂文和许真关系最密切，大部分消息，都由她来告知。
Nie Wen and Xu Zhen are most closely related, most of the information, she will tell.
晚上，她告诉我们，许真在武昌的天佑医院，状态不好，都不敢闭眼，怕醒不过来，让我们都去安慰他，转移注意力。
In the evening, she told us, Xu Zhen in Wuchang Tianyou Hospital, the state is not good, afraid to close eyes, afraid to wake up, let us all comfort him, diverting attention.
我点开和许真聊天窗口，一时竟不知说什么，只发了一串拥抱的表情。
I light and Xu Zhen chat window, unexpectedly did not know what to say for a moment, just a bunch of hugs expression.
杨晨发来信息。
A message from Yang Chen.
温度已经降到37.3。
The temperature has dropped to 37.3.
情况和她老公前几天一样。
It's the same as her husband the other day.
应该不是肺炎。
It shouldn't be pneumonia.
睡前，看到正在召开记者会。
Before going to bed, I saw a press conference.
市领导说武汉确诊病例可能再增加1000例。
City officials say the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan could increase by another 1,000.
对这些数据，我已有麻木之感。
I feel numb about the data.
可能大家都进入了疲惫期，今天几个群里，也都比较安静。
Perhaps everyone has entered the tired period, today in several groups, are also relatively quiet.
最后记一则在“潜江诗群”里看到的潜江市委书记吴祖云60字疫情防控口诀：勤洗手，常开窗；戴口罩，把毒挡；少聚会，不徬徨；缓出行，同舒畅；病魔来。
Last but not least, the writer of the Zhouyun 60-word epidemic prevention and control programme, as seen in the "Submerged River Poetry Group," frequently washes hands frequently, opens windows frequently, wears masks, keeps poison out, meets infrequently and is not adrift.
我刚强；遇不适，上医堂；粗淡饭，保安康；多运动，免疫强；破困局，勇担当；紧跟着，党中央。
I am strong; when I am unwell, I go to the hospital; Pumping rice is good for health; Exercise and immunity are strong; Break the trap and play it.
1月27日，放晴正月初三。
January 27th, sunny third day of the first month.
八点醒来，没来得及看疫情更新，先在群里看到同事胡晨的一条消息：科比死了。
Wake up at 8 o'clock, did not see the epidemic update, first in the group saw a colleague Hu Chen's message: Bryant is dead.
我脑子里的闪念是：可憋死了。
The thought in my mind was that I was suffocating.
她昨日发烧，闭门不出，觉得憋闷也不奇怪。
She had a fever yesterday, and it was not surprising that she was confined to her house.
疫情更新，昨天增长量吓人。
The epidemic has been renewed, with frightening growth yesterday.
睡前大概只有2000多，现在已经2700多。
It's only about 2,000 before bed, and now it's more than 2,700.
湖北当然是重灾区，增长371。
Hubei is certainly the hardest hit area, growth 371.
不过武汉增长只有80例（很奇怪我会用“只有”这个词，大概是以前武汉增长得太多了，我希望以后每天都能用这个词，那说明武汉新增病例越来越少），其余都是下面各县市。
But Wuhan grew by only 80 cases (oddly enough I used the word "only," probably because Wuhan had grown too much in the past, and I hope to use it every day, which means Wuhan has fewer and fewer new cases).
黄冈已有150多例，比大部分省都多。
Huanggang has more than 150 cases, more than most provinces.
恩施25例。
25 cases of benevolence.
潜江不再是空白，出现了5例，死亡一例。
The river was no longer empty, with five cases and one fatality.
抱着小溪下楼，今天是回潜江以来第一个晴天，外面阳光很好。
Holding the stream downstairs, today is the first sunny day since back diving river, outside the sun is very good.
门口的菜园和菜园外的大片麦子地，阳光下一派安详。
The garden at the door and the vast wheat fields outside the garden were calm in the sun.
完全不是灾难深重的样子。
It was not at all a disaster.
看到朋友许真半小时前发了朋友圈：“渡尽劫波，死后重生。
See a friend Xu Zhen half an hour ago issued a circle of friends: "hijack, after death rebirth.
”在阳光下看这条消息，心里又多了一点暖意。
"Seeing the news in the sun made me feel a little warmer.
希望他早日告别这新病毒，康复。
Hope he says good-bye to the new virus and recover soon.
我这些天看新闻，主要通过微信。
I read the news these days, mainly through micromail.
微博上得少。
There are few microblogs.
另一个去得频繁的APP是虎扑。
Another frequent APP is the Tiger Leap.
看点篮球新闻，和论坛上各种网友的消息。
Look at the basketball news, and the forum various netizens' news.
虎扑页面跳出来，我心里突然一紧。
The tiger leaped out of the page and my heart suddenly tightened.
页面上是科比的背影，下面三行字：REST IN PEACE，KOBE BRYANT，1978-2020。
On the page is Bryant's back, the following three lines: REST IN PEACE, KOBE BRYANT, 1978-2020.
想到早上杨晨的那句，突然明白所指。
Thinking of Yang Chen's words in the morning, suddenly pointed out clearly.
进虎扑页面，果然，全是科比的直升机坠机的消息。
Into the tiger pounce page, sure enough, all Bryant's helicopter crash news.
我篮球打得不好，但看NBA多。
I don't play basketball well, but I watch more NBA.
从高一开始。
It started in high school.
那时和同学每天守着楚天都市报体育版的豆腐块，看姚明的消息；或者中午飞奔出校门吃午饭，看一点直播。
I watched the bean curd of the sports section of the Chu Tian City Daily every day, watching Yao Ming's news, or rushed out of school to have lunch and watch a little live.
我喜欢的球星，最先是姚明，因为科比对阵火箭时总有高分，加上那几年他实在太过耀眼，姚明退役前后，主要就看科比的比赛了。
My favorite star, Yao Ming, because Bryant always has high scores against the Rockets, and in those years, he really too dazzling, Yao Ming before and after his retirement, mainly to watch Kobe's game.
悲痛之余，只觉得这悲痛不真实。
When I grieved, I felt that the grief was untrue.
尤其是有这一周接连的悲痛作为背景。
Especially against the backdrop of a week of grief.
一切重大的消息似乎都是假的，就像梦中的梦，只有恍惚和混沌。
All the big news seems to be false, just like dreams in a dream, only trance and chaos.
但一切都是真的。
But it's all true.
无数的细节在提醒你这不是梦，而是你身在其中、无可避免的生活——虽然这种“真”因为不在身边，不在可触可见的范围之内，还显得有些遥远。
Countless details remind you that this is not a dream, but the inevitable life in which you live - though the "real" seems remote because it is not around, out of sight.
我茫然地刷新着消息，看着大洋彼岸的缅怀；又回去看微信，看身边人的缅怀。
I refreshed the news dazed, looking across the ocean to pay tribute to the memory; and back to look at the letter, look at the people around me.
11点。
Eleven o'clock.
小溪要睡了。
The stream is going to sleep.
刚抱上楼，接到一个朋友电话，第一句就是：“许真怎么了？”我说：“还好啊，早上看他朋友圈，还说死后重生呢。
Just hugged upstairs, received a friend's phone call, the first sentence is: "Xu really what?" I said: "OK, see his friends in the morning, but also after the death of the rebirth.
”朋友说不对，你看他最新的朋友圈。
"The friend says no, look at his latest circle of friends.
我挂掉电话，点进许真的空间，密密麻麻，一连发了近十条消息。
I hung up the phone, point into the real space, dense, a series of nearly 10 messages.
最近的几条分别是：“我的时间不多了。
The last few are: "I don't have much time.
”“爸爸爱你们。
'Papa loves you.
我爱你老婆。
I love your wife.
我爱你们爸爸妈妈。
I love your mom and dad.
”我缓了两分钟，翻到我们昨天为许真而重启的群。
"I slowed for two minutes and turned to the group we had restarted yesterday for Xu Zhen.
大家都发现了许真的异常。
Everyone found Xu really abnormal.
打电话过去，关机。
Call over and turn off the phone.
只好在朋友圈求助，看有没有天佑医院的朋友。
Have to help in the circle of friends, see if there is a friend providential hospital.
一通乱战，终于有人联系上许真的妻子。
After all the turmoil, someone finally got in touch with Xu's real wife.
到了快12点，才确定他无恙，已经醒过来了。
It was nearly twelve o'clock before he was sure he was all right and had woken up.
他自己也发了条朋友圈：我是不是重度发烧了？午饭后，在门口，阳光下。
He himself sent out a circle of friends: Am I suffering from a severe fever? After lunch, at the door, in the sun.
今天的消息重新在眼前闪现，仍然遥远。
Today's news flashed again, still far away.
遥远之物，不可能不影响自己。
What is far away cannot be left untouched.
好在自己还有切身的真实生活：小溪扶着墙壁，扶着凳子，在院子里走来走去；岳母在菜园里割茼蒿；侄女和邻居的两个小孩在玩一种甩鞭，扔在地上一声巨响，侄女胆子小，只敢往身后丢……妻子的奶奶远远坐在门边，和我一样，看着院子里的一切。
The mother-in-law was crowing in the garland garden; her niece and her neighbor's two children were playing with a whip, throwing a loud noise on the ground, and niece dared to throw it behind her... The wife's grandmother sat at the door as far away as I did, looking at everything in the courtyard.
她今年八十多岁，生活还能自理，前年六月，老伴去世后，她似乎就是现在这种平静的模样。
She was in her eighties, and was still able to fend for herself. The year before last June, when her wife died, she seemed to be in her current state of peace.
安静地坐着，看着身前，又像什么都没看。
Sitting quietly, looking at me like I didn't see anything.
大部分时候沉默，偶尔喃喃自语。
Most of the time silence, occasionally muttered to himself.
我略微靠近老人一些，问她知不知道为什么大家都戴着口罩。
I approached the old man a little and asked if she knew why everyone was wearing masks.
老人说：“因为最近空气不好啊，越来越差了。
"The old man said," Because the air has been bad lately. It's getting worse.
”她一直说空气变差了，也是实情，三千米之外，建了一个巨大的垃圾焚烧厂，顺风时，这边还能隐约闻到焦煳味。
"She kept saying that the air was getting worse, and it was true that a huge waste incinerator had been built three kilometres away, and that there was a faint smell of charred fire as the wind blew down.
妻子继续问：“那为什么柚子他爸爸没有回来？”（妹夫的孩子小名叫柚子）老人想了想，脸上有点疑惑。
"The wife continued," Then why doesn't his father come back? "The old man thought," My brother-in-law's child is called grapefruit.
妻子说：“奶奶啊，因为外面封路了。
The wife said, "Grandma, because the road is closed outside.
最近闹病毒呢……”老人点点头，“哦”了一声，脸上仍然很平静。
Recently made the virus...... "The old man nodded," Oh "a, the face is still very calm.
延迟上班的决定出来了。
The decision to put off work came out.
由初七延至初九。
From Junior 7 to Junior 9.
单位群里也按照这个通知，我估计不太现实。
Unit group also in accordance with this notice, I do not expect to be realistic.
之前和聂文聊天，我们说到年后要好好聚聚。
Before chatting with Nie Wen, we said we should get together well after the year.
“年后”不知是何月何日。
I don't know when it will be.
一种巨大的疏离，让我们对武汉的朋友，也对武汉的工作和生活有了前所未有的想念。
A huge alienation, let us to Wuhan friends, but also to Wuhan's work and life have unprecedented miss.
有几个同事都说希望能早点上班，除了是因为在家无聊，何尝不是想尽快让一切回到正轨。
Several co-workers said they wanted to get to work early, except because they were bored at home and wanted to get things back on track as soon as possible.
下午总理去武汉了。
The Premier went to Wuhan in the afternoon.
很多朋友都在传他在一个超市的画面，他说“武汉”，身边的人喊“加油”。
Many of his friends are in a supermarket in the picture, he said "Wuhan," around the people shouting "refueling."
画面中有一个武汉老婆婆，气定神闲在超市扫码收银，总理说祝希望武汉老百姓平安、健康，老婆婆回头补充了一句“长寿”。
There is a picture of an old woman in Wuhan, calmly collected in the supermarket, the Prime Minister said wish Wuhan people safe, healthy, the mother-in-law turned back to add a "long life.
总理于是补了一句“长寿”。
The prime minister then added, "A long life."
杨晨不再发烧，一切正常。
Yang Chen no longer has a fever. Everything is fine.
只是按照医生（她在网上问的医生）建议，要在家隔离观察14日。
Just follow the advice of a doctor (the doctor she asked online) and observe it in isolation at home for 14 days.
她传给我一个视频，她的侄女圆圆大声在喊“武汉加油”，背景像是有人在唱国歌。
She sent me a video of her niece Yuanyuan shouting "Wuhan refueling," the background seems to be someone singing the national anthem.
我问杨晨具体情况，杨晨说，今晚武汉人约好了，八点钟一起开窗户，百万人共唱国歌。
I asked Yang Chen specific conditions, Yang Chen said, Wuhan people have made an appointment tonight, eight o'clock together to open the window, million people sing the national anthem.
她行动不太方便，也不好去窗户边受凉，没有加入，但仍然能听到窗外时而凌乱时而整齐的声音。
She could not move easily, she could not go to the window to catch the cold, she did not join, but she could still hear the occasional messy and orderly voice outside the window.
事后又有医生公开提醒，民众切记小心口沫在空气传播。
Afterwards, doctors have publicly warned people to be careful of foaming in the air.
感谢您的阅读，欢迎在文后留言并点击“在看”，留言点赞第一名且60以上，获得一个月腾讯视频会员哦~（截止时间：下周一下午18：00）扫码查看腾讯新闻客户端相关文章本文版权归“腾讯新闻”所有，如需转载请在文后留言，经允许后方可转载，并在文首注明来源、作者及编辑，文末附上深网二维码。
Tencent News (AP) News (AP) (Reuters) - Tencent News (AP) (AP) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (YouTheme) (youtheme.cn)
第528期实习运营编辑：黄贺陈诗雨点击“阅读原文”，查看腾讯新闻客户端相关独家文章！你“在看”我吗？。
528 internship operation editor: Huang He Chen Shi Yu click "read the original text", see Tencent News client-related exclusive articles! You "see" me?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位武汉诗人的小镇隔离日记：同事昨天感染了，从崩溃到重生 | 深网。
A Wuhan poet's town quarantined diary: Colleagues got infected yesterday, from crash to rebirth and deep Web.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "科技互联网";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T & T & T;;
var nickname = "腾讯深网";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Tencent.
var msg_title = "一位武汉诗人的小镇隔离日记：同事昨天感染了，从崩溃到重生 | 深网";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "无数的细节提醒你这不是假的，而是你身在其中、无可避免的生活。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Countless details remind you that this is not a fake, but an inevitable part of your life.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '中国芯片突围战，是科技史上最悲壮的长征 | 深网',。
China's Chip Breakthrough War was at the forefront of AT & T's & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '专访张朝阳：人生是苦海，快乐不可追，如何活出个说法？| 深网',。
A: Life was a sea of bitterness and happiness. How did you manage to live? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '谁杀死了ofo？ | 深网',。
Who killed Fofo? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '尘埃里的单车 | 深网',。
Ride & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '马云，江湖再见 | 深网',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '腾讯深网',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="腾讯深网";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at Tencent.
