被声讨的“晋江毒王”：感到很抱歉，可我没撒谎 | 深度报道​/* declared */。
"King of Jinjiang": I'm sorry, but I didn't lie and report in depth about the poor / * decled * /.
被声讨的“晋江毒王”：感到很抱歉，可我没撒谎 | 深度报道​<br>。
"King of Jinjiang": I'm sorry, but I didn't lie and include in-depth coverage at Ren & ltd; br & gt;.
| title       = 被声讨的“晋江毒王”：感到很抱歉，可我没撒谎   深度报道​。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
被声讨的“晋江毒王”：感到很抱歉，可我没撒谎 | 深度报道​。
Jinjiang's venomous king: I'm sorry, but I didn't lie or report anything in depth.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度                      。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北青深一度。
North Qingsheng one degree.
北京青年报深度报道部官方公众号。
Beijing Youth Daily in-depth coverage of the Department's official public number.
提供更深一度，更快一步的时事新闻资讯，守望变革中国的纵深阅读。
To provide a deeper and faster news of current events, and to keep watch for changes in China's in-depth reading.
。
.
记者/李佳楠 实习记者/ 陈威敬 胡琪琛编辑/石爱华宋建华1月22日，嘉排村举办大型宴席，共350余桌，3500余人参加嘉排村是福建晋江市英林镇一个有六千多人口的村子，1月22日，一场3000余人参加的宗族宴会让它进入公众视野。
Reporter / Li Jiangnan Intern / Chen Weijing Hu Qichen Editors / Shi Ai-hua Song Jianhua On January 22, a large banquet was held in Jiaobai Village, attended by more than 3,500 people. On January 22, a clan banquet attended by more than 3,000 people brought it into public view.
从武汉返乡的张方也出现在酒席上，2月1日他被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Zhang Fang, who returned home from Wuhan, also appeared at the banquet. He was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 1.
张方确诊后，英林镇向各村下发了《致嘉排村广大村民的一封信》。
After the diagnosis of Zhang Fang, Ying Lin Town issued a "letter to the villagers of Jiaobai village."
信上称，张方一家人明知自己来自武汉，却对群众谎称来自菲律宾，未按规定进行居家隔离，还几次参加宴请，频繁外出活动。
The letter said the family, who knew they were from Wuhan, had lied to the crowd about their Filipino origin, had not been kept in quarantine and had attended several banquets and frequent outings.
当地已对91人实行居家医学观察，对3557名一般接触者实行医学随访并全程管控。
Home medical observation has been carried out on 91 people and medical follow-up and control of 3,557 general contacts has been carried out.
2月4日，关于嘉排村的各种消息从朋友圈扩展至全网，网友将张方称为“晋江毒王”，张方和家人的照片被曝光，引来一片声讨。
On February 4, all kinds of news about the village of Jiaobai expanded from the circle of friends to the whole network, netizens called Zhang Fang the "King of Jinjiang" and photos of Zhang Fang and his family were exposed, drawing a barrage of criticism.
有网友称，张方作为酒替，到多个餐桌敬酒，还传出疑似张方喝酒、划拳的视频，更有人猜测，张方的奶奶因被传染，春节期间过世。
Some netizens said that Zhang Fang as a wine substitute, to a number of tables toast, also spread a suspected video of Zhang Fang drinking, boxing video, more speculation that Zhang Fang's grandmother died during the Spring Festival because of infection.
2月5日，泉州市公安局发布通报：对涉嫌危害公共安全罪的张方立案侦查并采取强制措施。
February 5, Quanzhou City Public Security Bureau issued a notice: suspected crimes against public security Zhang Fang investigation and take coercive measures.
截至2月6日，英林镇确诊10人，均为张方亲属。
As of February 6, Ying Lin Town confirmed 10 people, all of them Zhang Fang relatives.
从被确诊新冠肺炎、全家感染到成为“晋江毒王”，当事人张方始终没有露面。
From being diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia to becoming the "King of Jinjiang", Zhang Fang did not show up.
2月7日，深一度记者联系上张方妻子刘婷以及张方的父亲，他们对网络上的多方质疑给出回应。
On Feb. 7, a reporter contacted Zhang Fang's wife Liu Ting and Zhang Fang's father, who responded to questions on the Internet.
Play危险的聚集疫情严重，为何从武汉返乡参加活动？1月20日，张方夫妻二人带着孩子、母亲从武汉返回晋江市英林镇。
2007-3-1 00: 00 2008-05-20 09: 48: 48 Zhang Fang and his mother returned to Yinglin town of Jinjiang City from Wuhan on January 20 with their children and mother.
有声音质疑，当日，钟南山院士已公布了新冠肺炎具有人传人特点，很多省市已要求武汉返乡人员隔离，从武汉回乡的张方，明知疫情严重，不仅没有自行隔离，反而参加数千人的大型宴会，不负责任。
Many provinces and municipalities have demanded that Wuhan returnees be isolated. Zhang Fang, who returned from Wuhan knowing that the outbreak was serious, instead of isolating himself, took part in a large banquet for thousands of people instead of being held responsible.
刘婷回应称，回乡前，武汉看起来“一切正常”，很少有人戴口罩，人们正常逛街、购物。
Liu Ting responded that back home, Wuhan seems to be "all right," very few people wear masks, people normal shopping, shopping.
接触到的有限信息让他们对疫情没有一个清楚的判断，刘婷甚至听说，有人传谣被抓，“我们以为就只是单纯的肺炎，没放心上”，刘婷说。
The limited information they came across did not give them a clear diagnosis of the epidemic, Liu Ting even heard that some rumors were arrested, "we thought it is simply pneumonia, do not rest assured," Liu Ting said.
刘婷回忆，回到老家后，他们没有听到广播或是看到有人在宣传防控信息，“街上很热闹”。
Liu Ting recalled, back home, they did not hear the radio or see someone in the publicity control information, "the street is very busy."
嘉排村多位村民证实，去年村中张氏宗亲组织重修张氏祠堂，为庆祝重修竣工，1 月 21 日开始举办为期两天的晋主活动。
A number of villagers in Jiaobai village confirmed that last year, Zhangshi clan organizations in the village rebuilt the ancestral hall, to celebrate the completion of the restoration, January 21 to hold a two-day main event.
1 月 21 日，村里一千多名张姓村民进行了一个多小时的游街活动。
On 21 January, more than 1,000 Zhang villagers from the village took part in a street parade for more than an hour.
1月22日，村民们在海边围了块空地举办宴会，搭了戏台，持续了两个小时左右，一共有3000余人参加。
On January 22, villagers held a banquet and stage in a seaside resort that lasted about two hours and was attended by more than 3,000 people.
刘婷回应称，家人接到宗族通知，丈夫、公公和弟弟都参加了21日的游街活动，一位40岁左右的张姓村民告诉深一度，1月21日，他在宗祠见过张方，知道他是从武汉回来的，“当时完全是过节的气氛，没意识到需要特殊防范”。
Liu Ting responded that the family was informed by the clan that her husband, father-in-law and younger brother had participated in the 21-year-old street activities, a 40-year-old villager told Shaanxi that on January 21, he met Zhang Fang in the Pantheon, knowing that he had returned from Wuhan.
1月22日宴会举办时，参加的村民都没有戴口罩。
When the banquet was held on January 22, none of the villagers were wearing masks.
多位村民证实，村中管控在1月23日突然收紧。
Several villagers confirmed that controls in the village were suddenly tightened on 23 January.
有村民回忆，当天村中喇叭开始广播武汉关闭离汉通道的消息，村镇提醒村民做好防护，禁止聚会等活动。
Villagers recall that the village loudspeaker began broadcasting the news that Wuhan closed the Han corridor, villages and towns to remind villagers to prepare for protection, banned gatherings and other activities.
张方确诊后，上级部门下发《致村民的一封信》是否喝酒划拳，到多个餐桌敬酒？在张方确诊新冠肺炎后，英林镇给各村下发的《致村民的一封信》中称，在午宴上，有10桌就餐人员与张方有过密切接触，要求这些人从1月23日起自觉实行14天的居家医学观察，卫生部门将每日派专人现场测量2次体温，并询问、登记相关症状，涉及人数达3000余人。
After Zhang's diagnosis, the higher authorities issued a letter to villagers whether to drink wine and stroke, to toast multiple tables? After Zhang Fang confirmed pneumonia, Ying Lin sent a letter to the villagers saying that 10 table diners had close contact with Zhang Fang and asked them to voluntarily carry out 14-day home medical observation from January 23.
消息传出后，一段男子与人划拳、喝酒的视频在网络流传，有人称，张方作为酒替在很多餐桌上向人敬酒。
After the news, a man and people paddle, drink video circulated in the network, some people said that Zhang Fang as a wine in many table toast.
视频和网友的传言最初在福建晋江等地的微信群里传播，到2月4日，微博上骂声一片。
Video and netizen rumors first spread in the micro-letter group in Jinjiang and other places in Fujian Province, until February 4, the microblog on the scolding.
村民张明证实，当日，开办午宴三百五十余桌，每桌十人，其中，除了本村的张姓村民，还邀请了几十桌外乡张姓村民，再加上一些唱歌、跳舞、端茶水的服务人员至少有3500余人。
Zhang Ming, a villager, confirmed that there were more than 350 tables for a luncheon on the same day, with 10 people at each table, including dozens of Zhang surname villagers and at least 3,500 people who sang, danced and carried tea.
刘婷回应称，当日，她和丈夫、孩子还有三个姑姑一共10个人围坐一桌。
Liu Ting responded that that day, she, her husband, children and three aunts a total of 10 people around a table.
开饭时已是下午1点多，“大家都很饿，只顾着吃饭”。
It was 1: 00 p. m. when dinner was served. "Everybody was very hungry, just eating."
刘婷解释，她和亲戚都不会喝酒，丈夫张方喝酒会过敏，一家人都没有喝酒。
Liu Ting explained that she and her relatives do not drink alcohol, her husband Zhang Fang will be allergic to alcohol, the family did not drink.
视频在网络上流传之后，连福建南安的娘家人都打来电话询问，“那个人不是张方，不知道是谁”，刘婷说。
After the video circulated on the network, even the family members of Nan'an in Fujian called and asked, "That person is not Zhang Fang, do not know who it is," Liu Ting said.
一位50多岁的张姓村民证实，他所坐位置和张方仅一桌之隔，张方确诊后，他是重点隔离对象之一。
Zhang, a villager in his fifties, confirmed that his seat was only a table away from Zhang's and that he was one of the key quarantine targets after Zhang's diagnosis.
“有人说他划拳喝酒，这是子虚乌有，我们后面这些桌上只有两瓶饮料，没有人划拳喝酒。
"People say he paddles and drinks and that doesn't make any sense. There are only two bottles of drinks on the tables behind us, and no one punches or drinks.
”张方确诊后，有人打印出家人的照片，当街宣传为何隐瞒事实，谎称从菲律宾回乡？英林镇下发各村的信中还提到，1月30日至2月1日，嘉排村报告一起家庭聚集性新冠肺炎感染病例，确诊病例一家人明知自己来自武汉，却对群众谎称来自菲律宾，故意隐瞒行程。
After Zhang's diagnosis, someone printed out pictures of his family, and a letter from Yingluck village announcing why he had gone home from the Philippines told the reporters that from January 30 to February 1, a family member who knew he was from Wuhan falsely claimed to be from the Philippines and deliberately hid the trip.
很快，“晋江毒王谎称菲律宾回乡”的内容在微博上发酵，大V纷纷转发，网友骂声一片。
Soon, "Jinjiang drug king falsely claimed that the Philippines returned to the home" content fermented on microblogging, large V forward, netizens curse one another.
有人谴责张方明知故犯，有意传播他人。
Some people accuse Zhang Fang of knowingly spreading others.
刘婷回应称，她看到告知书时感到不解，“别人问起，我们一直说的是从武汉回来的，从未谎称来自菲律宾。
Liu Ting responded that she was puzzled to see the notice, "people asked, we have been talking back from Wuhan, never falsely claimed to be from the Philippines.
”张方的父亲回应称，1月23日当天，有两批人跟他核实了返乡信息，分别是其户籍所在的嘉排村工作人员和其现居住地英林村上的工作人员。
Mr Zhang's father responded that on January 23, two groups of people had checked information with him on their return home: the staff of the village of Kapai, where his household was registered, and the staff of Yinglin Murakami, where he currently resides.
张方父亲称，1月23日下午2点50分，嘉排村村委会工作人员打来电话，让其登记返乡人员信息，除了表明自己较早从菲律宾返乡外，也如实告知了儿子张方等人从武汉回乡的日期。
Zhang Fang's father said that on January 23 at 2: 50 p.m., Jiaobao Village Village Committee staff called to register information on returning home, in addition to indicating their earlier return from the Philippines, son Zhang Fang and others were also truthfully informed of the date of their return from Wuhan.
该名工作人员提醒他们，尽量在家不能外出。
The staff member reminded them to stay at home as much as possible.
如果不得不出去，要戴口罩。
Wear a mask if you have to go out.
1月23日傍晚，两名自英林村委的人员来到张方家中，再次询返乡信息，张方父亲告知对方自已从菲律宾回乡已有一个月，张方父亲坦言，在被问及家里其他人情况时他没有回答但也并没有说谎隐瞒，“他们穿着黑衣服戴着黑口罩，我不认识他们，有些戒备，我告诉他们，全家已经在嘉排村备案，让他们联系嘉排村委会。
On the evening of January 23, two members of the village committee came to Zhang Fang's house and asked for information on their return home. Zhang's father told him that he had not replied but had not lied when asked about the rest of his family.
”记者联系到给张方父亲打电话的嘉排村工作人员，核实张方父亲是否在1月23日如实汇报了家人武汉返乡的情况，对方表示自己不方便说，要联系上级领导。
"The reporter contacted Jia Pai staff who phoned Zhang Fang's father to verify that Zhang Fang's father had truthfully reported the return of his family to Wuhan on January 23.
被隔离村民，有无疑似感染？张方确诊之后，晋江当地采取紧急措施，对91人实行居家医学观察，3557名一般接触者实行医学随访并全程管控。
After Zhang Fang was diagnosed, local authorities in Jinjiang took emergency measures to put 91 people under medical observation at home, and 3,557 general contacts underwent medical follow-up and full control.
张方因此被网友称为“晋江毒王”。
Zhang Fang is therefore called "Jinjiang King of Poison" by netizens.
刘婷介绍，1月23日凌晨，她看到关闭离汉通道的新闻，才知道新冠肺炎会人传人。
Liu Ting, January 23 early morning, she saw the closure of the Han Channel news, only to learn that the new crown pneumonia from person to person.
回想起此前参加宴会，她和家人也有些后怕，“当时我们没有任何症状的，也会担心别人传染给我们”。
Recalling her previous dinner, she and her family were afraid, "We did not have any symptoms, will also worry about others infect us."
从1月23日起，刘婷家人要每天两三次测量体温，身体出现发烧等不舒服的情况，都要上报给嘉排村和疾控中心。
From January 23, Liu Ting's family to take temperature two or three times a day, the body has a fever and other uncomfortable situation, should be reported to the village and CDC.
1月24日开始，刘婷、孩子、张方母亲出现发烧症状，但很快恢复，“家人觉得可能和往年一样得了流感。
On January 24, Liu Ting, the child, Zhang Fang's mother developed fever symptoms, but quickly recovered, "the family may feel the same flu as usual.
”刘婷介绍，张方因不放心，1月25日去镇医院验了血、拍了CT，医生说没问题，建议回家休息、观察。
Liu Ting said Zhang Fang was worried because he went to the town hospital on January 25 for a blood test and took a CT scan.
随后几天，刘婷一家出现反复发烧的症状，1月29日，张方开始隔离治疗。
A few days later, Liu Ting family appeared repeatedly feverish symptoms, January 29, Zhang Fang began isolation treatment.
1月30日，刘婷和家人也开始隔离治疗。
On January 30, Liu Ting and her family also began isolation treatment.
2月1日，张方和一同从武汉返回的母亲、妻子和孩子同时被确诊感染新冠肺炎，成为英林镇最早确诊的病例。
Zhang Fang and his mother, wife and children, all returned from Wuhan on February 1, became the first cases to be diagnosed in the town of Yinglin.
截至2月6日，英林镇共确诊病例10例，都是他的家人和亲戚。
As of 6 February, there had been 10 confirmed cases in Yinglin town, all of them family members and relatives.
张方父亲目前未被感染，目前在晋江一医院隔离。
Zhang Fang's father, who is not currently infected, is being quarantined in a hospital in Jinjiang.
张方确诊后，村内挂出的宣传条幅奶奶去世，是否因感染肺炎？1月31日，张方奶奶在春节期间过世，有人质疑奶奶是被他传染，感染新冠肺炎导致死亡。
When Zhang Fang was diagnosed, did Granny Zhang die of pneumonia after being hung in the village? Grandma Zhang died of pneumonia on January 31 during the Spring Festival.
老人去世时，张方和家人大都被隔离，只有几名亲属在家留守。
When the old man died, Zhang Fang and his family were mostly separated and only a few relatives stayed at home.
多位村民证实，在老人去世后，张方家人陆续被确诊，村委会在菜市场旁拉了一条“带病回乡不孝二郎，传染爹娘丧尽天良”的红色条幅。
A number of villagers confirmed that after the death of the elderly, Zhang Fang family members were diagnosed, the village committee in the Halles next to a "sick back home unfilial son, infected parents lost their father and mother" red banners.
村民拍摄的一段视频显示，有村委会人员拿着张方家人的照片在条幅前大声吆喝，提醒接触过张方一家的村民注意隔离防护。
A video taken by villagers shows village committee members shouting out in front of banners with photos of Zhang's family, alerting villagers who have contacted the family to guard against isolation.
得知村里悬挂横幅，张方父亲曾给村里打电话，认为他们办事不妥。
Zhang Fang's father called the village when he learned that there was a banner hanging in the village.
张方的父亲接受采访时说，张方奶奶去世前两个月就已经病重，不能进食，靠着输液维持生命。
Zhang's father said in an interview that Granny Zhang had been ill for two months before her death and could not eat and was dependent on an infusion for life.
“我们很少在福建，如果不是因为老人病重的话，今年可能不会回来的。
"We're rarely in Fujian, and we probably wouldn't be back this year if it wasn't for the elderly being seriously ill.
”张方父亲坦言，今年回老家，也是想见母亲最后一面，尽一下孝道。
Zhang Fang's father confessed that he was going back to his hometown this year to see his mother for the last time and show filial piety.
晋江市委宣传部工作人员蔡先生称，张方奶奶身体一直不好，离世原因与新冠肺炎疫情无关。
Mr. Cai, a publicity worker at the Jinjiang Municipal Committee, said that Granny Zhang had been in poor health and the cause of death had nothing to do with the outbreak of pneumonia.
“因为属于疫情防控的特殊时期，1月31日当晚已经安排老人火化，对疫情也没有什么影响。
"Because of the special period of epidemic prevention and control, the cremation of the elderly was arranged on the night of January 31.
政府为隔离的村民提供食物、蔬菜被感染当事人，现状如何？刘婷介绍，她和张方的孩子今年才3岁，病情较轻，已经退烧，精神状态较好，和自己在一个病房隔离治疗。
Liu Ting said that she and Zhang Fang's children, who were only three years old, were in a mild condition, had fever, were in good health and were isolated in a ward for treatment.
谈及村中被隔离的村民，刘婷表示，她和家人感到很抱歉，“这个不是故意的。
Speaking about the isolated villagers in the village, Liu Ting said she and her family felt sorry. "It wasn't intentional."
如果知道自己被感染的话，肯定是不会回来，更不会去参加活动。
If I knew I was infected, I would definitely not come back, let alone participate in the activities.
”村里的横幅和网上的传言与辱骂，让仍在隔离和治疗的刘婷和家人感到难受。
"Liu Ting and her family, still isolated and treated, suffered from banners in the village and rumors and abuse on the Internet.
刘婷说，“现在，我们家人都是被感染者，却被骂故意去感染他人。
Liu Ting said, "Now, our family are infected, but was scolded deliberately to infect others.
谁会特地去感染家人呢，儿子才三岁，我也不可能带着孩子冒风险，是吧？”刘婷更担心丈夫的状况，在刘婷眼里，张方是个容易焦虑的人，染病后，他一开始咳嗽、发烧、胸闷，情绪一直不稳定，服药后的反应比较大，没胃口，睡眠也不好。
"Liu Ting is more worried about her husband's situation, in Liu Ting's eyes, Zhang Fang is easy to worry about, after the illness, he began to cough, fever, chest tightness, mood has been unstable, drug reaction is larger, no appetite, sleep is not good.
网传信息对张方影响很大，因为家人的照片等信息都是从福建老家传出去的，张方一度对她说，“只要你们母子两个好，我自己无所谓。
Zhang Fang was greatly influenced by the information he received from his family's home town of Fujian. Zhang had once said to her, "It doesn't matter to me as long as you are both fine.
我觉得这辈子可能都不想回福建来了。
I don't think I'd ever want to go back to Fujian in my life.
”2月4日，张方的手机被警方取走。
On February 4, Zhang's cell phone was taken away by the police.
刘婷觉得，看不到网上信息，可能丈夫会好受点，也希望他快点康复。
Liu Ting felt that, do not see online information, perhaps her husband will feel better, but also hope that he quickly recover.
家人的理解让刘婷感到温暖。
Liu Ting's understanding made Liu Ting feel warm.
她曾和姑姑们在一个房间隔离，姑姑们没有埋怨，反而还鼓励她说：“大家要坚强，争取一起出院。
She was separated from her aunts in a room, and instead of complaining, they encouraged her to say, "Be strong and try to get out of the hospital together.
”多位村民在接受采访时对张方一家人表示谅解，“他们不是故意的。
"They didn't mean it," Zhang's family said in an interview.
他们一家遭灾，用有色的眼光去看他，叫他‘毒王’对当事人不公道”，一位村民说。
Their family suffered, with colored eyes to see him, called him 'poison king' to the client unfair, "said a villager.
刘婷担心张方面临刑罚。
Liu Ting worried about Zhang's punishment.
2月5日，泉州市公安局发布通报称，晋江市公安机关对涉嫌危害公共安全罪的张方立案侦查并采取强制措施。
February 5, Quanzhou City Public Security Bureau issued a notice that the public security organs of Jinjiang City on suspicion of crimes against public security Zhang Fang investigation and take coercive measures.
经查，张方从武汉回晋江后，当地镇政府和卫健部门对其提出居家隔离、不得外出的明确要求，但张方仍私自外出和走亲访友、参与聚会，造成不良后果。
After investigation, Zhang Fang from Wuhan back to Jinjiang, the local township government and health authorities to her home isolation, must not go out, but Zhang Fang private visits, friends and gatherings, resulting in adverse consequences.
随后，接到案件线索后，晋江市人民检察院立即派员向公安机关了解前期摸排调查情况，检察官主动参与侦查机关办案组案件讨论会议，向公安机关提供10余条侦查意见，引导侦查取证。
Upon receiving the case leads, the People's Procuratorate of Jinjiang City immediately sent personnel to the public security organs to find out the preliminary investigation status. The procurator took the initiative to participate in the case discussion meeting of the investigation organ case handling group, provided more than 10 investigation opinions to the public security organs, and guided the investigation and evidence gathering.
刘婷介绍，2月7日下午，警方找她做了视频笔录，她交代刘方从返乡到隔离这段时间的情况。
Liu Ting, February 7 afternoon, the police to her to do a video recording, she told Liu Fang from the return to isolation of the situation.
刘婷表示，她向警方说明自己和家人并未谎称从菲律宾返乡。
Liu said she told police she and her family had not lied about returning home from the Philippines.
警方告诉她，目前还在调查，会去核实她所说的信息。
The police told her that an investigation was still under way to verify the information she had given.
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%function showDivShare() {。
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% function showDivShare '{
