在高速公路上漂流。
Drifting on the highway.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
疫情时期，人从哪里来变得非常重要。
In an epidemic, where people come from becomes very important.
50岁的肖红兵说自己是从「非疫区」来的，他指的是自己的那辆轻型货车。
Xiao Hongbing, 50, said he came from a "non-pestilence area," referring to his pickup truck.
车内居民1，健康。
Inside the car 1, healthy.
货车不仅是「非疫区」，也成了他暂时的「家」。
The truck was not only a "non-pestilence area" but also a temporary "home" for him.
他大概是公共卫生专家会赞扬的听话市民，几天几夜不离开自己的「家」，主要吃泡面为生，不与人随意来往。
He is probably an obedient citizen, praised by public health experts. He does not leave his "home" for a few days and nights.
「家」的前面是醒目的鄂M3B350，这成为了他无法出「家门」的原因。
"Home" in front of the eye-catching E M3B 350, which is why he can not leave the "home."
他早在1月7号就离开湖北天门前往外省送货。
He left Tianmen, Hubei Province, for provincial delivery as early as January 7.
但从大年初一到初五因为一个「鄂」字，他像一艘漂浮在大海中的小舟，找不到停靠的地方，每到一个港口，岸边的人们会把他推回海的中央，他被隔离在大海中孤独地漂着，风浪凶险，他不敢休息。
From the first day of the New Year to the fifth day of the year, he was like a boat floating in the sea, unable to find a place to stay. Every time he reached a port, the people on the shore would push him back into the middle of the sea.
他在高速公路上漂流了四天四夜。
He was adrift on the highway for four days and four nights.
人们总是跟他说，「回你家去吧」，这里指的是他真正意义上的家，在湖北天门市。
People always tell him, "Go back to your home," which means his real home in Tianmen City, Hubei Province.
没人在意他到底怎么才能回到天门，出于信息上的隔离，肖红兵也不知道湖北的高速到底是什么时候封的，武汉和湖北的疫情到底是怎样的发展轨迹，也不晓得他所在的外地是否有专门接纳湖北人的酒店——就算有，他也不会舍得去住。
No one cares how he managed to get back to Tianmen Square. Because of the isolation of information, Xiao Hong Bing does not know when the Hubei expressway was sealed, how the epidemic in Wuhan and Hubei was developed, or whether there was a hotel for Hubei people in his field, even if there were one, he would not be willing to live there.
他只是从人们对他和他写着「鄂」的货车的排斥态度中意识到天门正在变得模糊，成为了手机导航里一个无法抵达的终点。
He just realized from people's rejection of him and his "E" truck that the Tianmen Gate was becoming blurry and an unreachable endpoint in mobile phone navigation.
昨天，一条肖红兵在汉中北高速服务区被收留后哭诉自己「太累了」的微博引起了公众的关注。
Yesterday, a Xiao Hong Bing was admitted to the Hanzhong North Expressway Service Area and cried that he was "too tired" to attract public attention.
事实上，服务区已在昨天为他安排了类似于宾馆标间的客房，他终于能四肢张开地躺在床上睡觉了。
In fact, the service area has arranged for him yesterday similar to the hotel standard room room, he finally can stretch out on the bed to sleep.
回家暂时变成了一个不那么急迫的事情，令他更发愁的是，在疫情看起来无法很快结束的未来，他将怎样用这台鄂开头的货车去支撑他真正的家——无业的妻子，脆弱的父母和即将升入初中的儿子。
Going home had temporarily become a less urgent matter, and he was even more worried about how he would use the wagons to prop up his real home - his jobless wife, vulnerable parents, and soon-to-be-middle-school son - in a future where the epidemic seemed unlikely to end soon.
以下是肖红兵的自述：文｜荆欣雨编辑｜糖槭                                          1我是1月7号离开湖北的。
The following is Xiao Hong Bing's self-report: yeg Jingyu, editor of yeg yeg's yeg, I left Hubei province on January 7.
当时接了从湖北荆州到浙江义乌的单，800多公里，跑一天一夜就到了。
From Jingzhou, Hubei Province to Yiwu, Zhejiang Province, more than 800 kilometers, running a day and a night arrived.
我靠跑货车养家，想多挣点钱，不想跑空车，到一个地方就会停下来，在车上睡，等着新的订单，再去往下一个城市。
I support my family by running a van, trying to earn more money, not wanting to run an empty car, and then stopping to sleep in the car, waiting for a new order to go to the next city.
我在货车帮APP上面接单（类似货车版滴滴），货少司机多，有时也得抢单。
I pick up orders on the van to help APP (similar to truck version drip), less cargo drivers, sometimes have to snatch tickets.
我从义乌又送货到贵州，两天两夜，在贵州等了一天单，到了湖南湘潭，之后又回到了义乌。
I sent goods from Yiwu to Guizhou, where I waited for a single day for two days and nights. I got to Xiangtan, Hunan Province.
每隔3-5天，我会找一个小镇，在小旅馆里开一个小时钟点房，洗个澡换个衣服再走。
Every 3-5 days, I would find a small town, drive an hour in a small hotel, take a bath and change clothes.
离开义乌后，我前往深圳，1700多公里，三天三夜。
After leaving Yiwu, I went to Shenzhen, more than 1,700 kilometers, three days and three nights.
因为货车单子都会签合约，要在规定的时间内把货送到目的地，所以我尽量跑的时间长一点，休息时间短一点，睡觉就是在车里。
Because all truck lists signed contracts to deliver the goods to their destination within the stipulated time, I tried to run a little longer, had shorter breaks and slept in the car.
每到一个地方，我会给家里人发一个定位，让他们知道我在哪。
Everywhere I go, I send a location to my family to let them know where I am.
我跟他们说尽量不要给我打电话，因为我在开车，手机在导航，所以联系的话都是我给他们打电话，他们就知道我在休息了。
I told them to try not to call me because I was driving and the phone was navigating, so if I called them, they knew I was resting.
这期间我们通话，他们说武汉那边发了一个呼吸系统的病，挺严重，好多人都不往那边走了，我说我不在武汉，那时候我也不知道什么是新型冠状病毒，就是隐约听说。
During the conversation, they said that Wuhan side of a respiratory illness, very serious, a lot of people do not go there, I said I am not in Wuhan, then I do not know what is the new coronavirus, is vaguely heard.
平时我也没有时间看新闻，一天都是在路上跑，手机在导航，好不容易到了目的地肯定抓紧时间休息，休息完了就看看能不能接到下一趟活。
Usually I do not have time to watch the news, a day is running on the road, mobile phones in the navigation, hard to reach the destination must seize the time to rest, after the rest to see if can receive the next job.
我在深圳等了一天，拉了一车的货到福建福州。
I waited in Shenzhen for a day and pulled a load of goods to Fuzhou, Fujian Province.
在福州，我本来打算回家过年了，有一个老板说，有个到四川的活，很急，找不到车，能不能帮帮忙，给我多加200块钱，我就同意了。
In Fuzhou, I was going to go home for the New Year, a boss said, there is a work to Sichuan, very urgent, can not find a car, can help me, give me an extra 200 yuan, I agree.
临走前，老板给了我十几个口罩、一罐红牛和一些手套，说「你会用得着」，当时我也不知道是做什么的。
Before I left, my boss gave me a dozen masks, a can of red cattle and some gloves, saying, "You'll need them," and I didn't know what I was doing.
在去四川的路上，新的一年来了。
On the way to Sichuan, the new year has come.
抵达四川达州开江，大年初一，下高速的时候，我开始感觉到「鄂」开头的车牌号带来的影响。
Arriving in Kaijiang, Sichuan Province, on the first day of the new year, I began to feel the influence of the license plate number beginning with "E".
高速路口有警察和穿着防护衣的人，我看他们都戴着口罩，我也把口罩戴上了。
There were police and men in protective clothing at the highway junction, and I saw that they were wearing masks, and I put them on too.
他们看我是湖北的车牌，就做了登记，我问他们什么情况，他们就说了一下，现在要严控外地车辆。
They checked me out as Hubei's license plate, and I asked them what was going on, so they said they wanted to keep a tight grip on cars in the field.
到了目的地卸货，我发现二十多米外有七八个年纪比较大的人，在那望着我的车，我也不知道是什么情况。
When I landed at my destination, I found seven or eight older men twenty meters away, looking at my car, and I didn't know what it was.
过了一会来了两个警察，一男一女，问了我的情况，看了我的证件，我这一路的高速发票都保留着，就跟他们解释，我不是从湖北来的。
After a while two policemen, a man and a woman, came and asked about me, read my papers, and kept all my high-speed invoices, explaining to them that I was not from Hubei.
他们调查了一下说没有问题，没事，你尽快离开就行，我说，什么情况？警察说，我们在你还是安全的，但现在老百姓对湖北这边比较敏感，你自己小心一点，我们走之后你尽快离开。
The police said we were still safe in you, but now the people are more sensitive to Hubei side. Be careful yourself, and you can leave as soon as we leave.
我说谢谢你们，他们就走了。
I said thank you and they left.
疫情期间的高速路口都有相关人员检测体温图源看看新闻我想找个地方吃点饭，当地的人听到我的湖北口音，说你们那闹得挺厉害，老板问我有没有问题，我就把我的情况说了一下，老板还挺好的，说那我就放心了。
At the high-speed intersection during the epidemic there were people checking the temperature chart to see the news I wanted to find a place to eat. The local people heard my Hubei accent and said you made a terrible noise.
吃完饭，回去发现车前面停了两个小三轮车，还有人对着我的车拍照，我跑过去，他们说你湖北人赶快走，别停在这。
After dinner, I went back to find two small tricycles parked in front of the car, there are people taking photos of my car, I ran to them, they said you Hubei people hurry, do not stop here.
还有人在打电话，不知道是不是在报警之类的。
There were people on the phone, wondering if they were calling the police or something.
我跟他们说我马上就会走的。
I told them I was going to leave soon.
其实我也能理解，疫情时期，封闭管理，就应该是这样，我说行行，我马上走，我就走了呗。
In fact, I can also understand that the epidemic period, closed management, should be like this, I said line, I left immediately, I left.
再上高速我就发现到处都有卡点，要测体温、登记，但是当时还能通过。
On the freeway, I found that there were a lot of checkpoints everywhere to take a temperature check and register, but I could still pass.
我打开导航查了下，离荆州有800多公里，我想回家，但又想着这一趟下来也没赚多少钱，回家要开一天一夜，油费加过路费一千多，有点划不来，不想花这么多钱空车跑回去。
I opened the navigation check, more than 800 kilometers from Jingzhou, I want to go home, but I think this trip also did not earn much money, to go home a night, fuel costs plus more than 1000, a bit unworthwhile, do not want to spend so much money empty car back.
我又在平台上找了个货源，从四川到陕西城固，我想着这不是离湖北也近一点，拉完再回家，就把我的车资料给货主发过去了，开上了高速。
I also found a source on the platform, from Sichuan to Shaanxi City, I think this is not too close to Hubei, pull again, then go home, my car information to the owner of the past, drive high-speed.
大概开了80多公里吧，货主就给我打了个电话，说我这个湖北的车不行，这单生意就这么黄了。
Perhaps more than 80 kilometers, the owner of the cargo to me to call, said that my Hubei car can not, this business is so yellow.
物流的人也跟我说，现在国道、省道、乡道都设了卡点，高速下去了你也走不远，我就说这可怎么办啊。
Logistics people also told me that now the national road, provincial roads, township roads have been set up card points, high-speed you are not far away, I said that this can do ah.
自从我离开福州，我只睡了2个多小时。
I've only slept more than two hours since I left Fuzhou.
当时我记得是在四川江油，我想下高速找个地方洗澡，卡点的工作人员都会劝我，你下去可以，但到处都封路，外省的车不让走，禁止外来的车辆和人员流动。
At that time, I remember in Sichuan Jiangyou, I want to find a place to take a bath, the staff will advise me, you can go down, but everywhere blocked the road, provincial cars are not allowed to go, the ban on foreign vehicles and people.
那下去有什么用？江油的服务区那时还让停车，我就在那睡了3个小时，睡不着，醒来我就说还是往家走吧，哪怕空车花点钱。
What's the point of going down there? The Jiangyou service area was still parking, and I slept there for three hours, and when I woke up, I said I'd better go home, even if it costs a little money.
我就又在导航里输入了湖北荆州（编者注：每次回家，他会导航到离家最近的湖北荆州的高速路口），开了一夜，第二天天亮了，我发现服务区不让停了，加油可以，没人管，停下想休息，服务区的工作人员就催着让走。
I entered Hubei Jingzhou in the navigation.) Every time he returned home, he would navigate to the nearest highway junction in Jingzhou, Hubei Province.
我有问过为什么？他们说你们湖北发病发的很严重，都是从湖北传染过来的，你湖北车不要停了，不要传染给我们了。
I asked why? They said that you Hubei onset of serious, all from Hubei, you Hubei car do not stop, do not infect us.
在每个地方我都给他们解释，效果不大。
I explained it to them everywhere, but it didn't work.
他们的说法就是不管你有病没病，吃完饭你就快点走，别在这停，就这么个情况。
What they're saying is that whether you're sick or not, you can go after dinner, don't stop here, that's all.
从这时开始，我就没地方睡觉了。
From then on, I have no place to sleep.
肖师傅的驾驶室图源封面视频2高速没有地方睡觉，只能到紧急停车那种宽敞一点的地方，放个警示标志，在那里睡。
Xiao Shifu's cab source video 2 No place to sleep on the high-speed, can only go to emergency parking the kind of spacious place, put a warning sign, sleep there.
最长的一次睡了1个多小时。
The longest one slept more than an hour.
一般都是交警过来敲玻璃，说不能这么停车，违法的，赶快走。
Usually the traffic police come knocking on the glass, said can not stop like this, illegal, hurry to go.
我说服务区不让停车怎么办呢，他说全国都这样，你最好还是回你家乡去。
He said it's all over the country. You'd better go back to your hometown.
我就只能再往前走呗。
I'll just have to move on.
到了晚上的时候，我的导航出了点问题。
At night, there was something wrong with my navigation.
到了陕西宁强，让我下高速，往国道上走，再重新上高速。
To Ningqiang, Shaanxi Province, let me down the highway, to the national highway, and then re-up the highway.
这时已经凌晨1点了，下了高速，工作人员给我量体温、登记，说你可以走，但是隐约地跟我说到处都不让走，你最好还是回高速算了。
It was 1: 00 in the morning, off the highway, the staff to take my temperature, registration, you can go, but vaguely told me everywhere not to go, you had better go back to high speed.
我说导航让我这么走的，他们也没说什么。
I said navigation let me go like this, and they didn't say anything.
我还是坚持往前走，他们也就没特别地阻拦，在国道走了一段时间，发现到处都堵着。
I still insist on moving forward, they also did not specifically block, in the national road for a period of time, found everywhere blocked.
条幅上写着非本村本镇人员以及外来车辆禁止入内，我就只能重新导航，导到乡道，绕一段乡道再开回到国道上来。
The banners said that people from outside the village and the outside world were not allowed in, so I had to re-navigate to the country road and drive around a section of the country road back to it.
三更半夜的，我很怕迷路，山区里面信号又不好，有一段路彻底断网了，怎么都连不上去，走了好久才又重新有信号。
Three in the middle of the night, I am afraid of getting lost, the mountain signal is not good, there is a section of the road completely cut off, how can not even go, walk for a long time before re-signal.
好多路都是从山上绕，悬崖上面大S弯那种老路。
There's a lot of old roads around the hills, like the big S-bend over the cliffs.
太危险了。
It's too dangerous.
我一直都没有休息，本来就有点困，有的山路还有雾，能见度才3、4米，根本看不清，就2米多宽的山路啊，下面就是悬崖，真的太恐怖了，太恐怖了。
I have not rested, is a bit sleepy, some mountain roads and fog, visibility only 3, 4 meters, just can not see clearly, just more than 2 meters wide ah, the cliff below, really too terrible, too terrible.
偶尔能遇见一两辆车，天太黑了，他们看不清我的车牌，没有拦我。
Occasionally I could meet a car or two. It was too dark for them to see my license plate and stop me.
我记得开回国道后，遇见一个隧道，冲过去很快就能重新上高速了。
I remember driving back to the road, I met a tunnel, rushed through and soon got back on the highway.
结果隧道前又有一个卡点，摆了个桌子，可能我的货车太吵了，把守卫吵醒了。
As a result, there was another checkpoint and a table in front of the tunnel. Maybe my van was too noisy and woke up the guard.
他看我是湖北的车牌，说赶快走，不走我报警了。
He looked at me as Hubei's license plate, said hurry to go, do not go I called the police.
我问他哪能走，他指旁边的小路，那人其实也还挺好的，还给我指了条路。
I asked him where he could go. He pointed to a side road, and the man was actually quite good. He showed me the way.
那条路是从山下开到山顶，再从山顶下去，特别恐怖。
The road runs from the bottom of the mountain to the top and down from the top.
凌晨4点半到5点的时候，我回到了高速上。
Between 4: 30 a.m. and 5: 00 a.m., I was back on the highway.
天亮了，我还是不死心，想看能不能在平台上找一个往湖北走的活，哪怕不挣钱也行。
Daybreak, I still do not give up, want to see if the platform can find a way to Hubei work, even if it does not earn money.
还真找到一个，城固到十堰的。
Really found one, the city solid to the Shiyan.
我跟货主一联系，上来就说我是湖北的车，问她有没有影响，货主可能对这个情况也不是很熟悉，就说你过来吧。
I contact the owner, come up to say I am Hubei's car, asked her if there is any impact, cargo owners may not be very familiar with this situation, said you come.
等7点钟我到了她的厂子，她就又打电话说，你别过来了，不知道怎么回事有人报警了，警察来了又是测体温、登记，好多老百姓在那围观。
When I got to her factory at 7 o'clock, she called again and said, You don't come over here. Somehow someone called the police.
警察说是这么个情况，不是说我们排斥你们，因为现在疫情严控期，这个货你就别拉了，你就回家去吧。
The police say this is the case, not that we ostracize you, because now that the epidemic is under severe control, you do not pull this goods, you go home.
我也能理解，我也支持，没问题，就又走了。
I can understand that, and I support it, no problem, and I'm leaving again.
哎。
Alas!
真的有点说实在的，有点伤心，我当时有一句话真的很想说，我说病都没有把我们打倒，但是同胞的这种想法真的，真的把我吓到了。
Really, a little sad, I have a sentence really want to say, I said the disease did not knock us down, but this kind of compatriots really, really scared me.
我也跟他们说了，我出来半个多月了，也不是从湖北过来的，我跟你们一样健康，我对你们一点威胁都没有，他们说我们也知道，但是全国都这样，我们只有采取这种封闭的管理才能不让病毒扩散。
I told them, I've been out for more than half a month, and I'm not from Hubei, I'm as healthy as you, I'm not a threat to you, they say we know, but all over the country, we can't spread the virus without this kind of containment.
我就返回高速，还是到处都有卡点，到了一个小乡镇上，老百姓就把你拦住，报警。
I will return to the high speed, or there are card points everywhere, to a small town, people will stop you, police.
那时真的是没打算了，不知道怎么办，警察也跟我说了，湖北的高速也封掉了，我说，好吧，我也不能回家了。
At that time was really no plan, do not know how to do, the police told me, Hubei speed also closed, I said, well, I can not go home.
上了高速，导航我都不知道导哪了。
On the freeway, I don't even know where to navigate.
家肯定是回不去了，当时我给家里打电话，家里人说我们这边有好多确诊的病例，回家乡可能暂时回不来，高速都封了，你下都下不来，省道也封了，你到外面看能不能找个地方安顿下来，把疫情度过了，再回来。
The family said we had a lot of confirmed cases here. We might not be able to get home for a while, the highways were blocked, and the provincial roads were blocked. You go outside and see if you can find a place to settle down and get over the outbreak and come back.
自从服务区也不让停车后，我就有点茫然了，家回不了，国道到处也封了。
Since the service area is also not allowed to stop, I am a bit at a loss, can not go home, the National Road is closed everywhere.
我不知道怎么办。
I don't know what to do.
导航输湖北荆州吧，只是一个模糊的目标。
Navigation to Hubei Jingzhou bar, just a vague target.
以前拉活，导航里输入一个地点就是目的地，我会用余下的路程数来鼓励自己，比如说全程1700公里，我就告诉自己，现在是四位数，跑着跑着，三位数了，再跑着跑着，啊，两位数了，快到了，就用这种方法鼓励自己，给自己提神。
I used to zoom in and type in a place to be my destination, and I used the rest of the way to encourage myself, like, the entire 1,700 kilometers, and I told myself it was in four digits, running, three digits, running and running. Oh, double digits, fast approaching, encourage yourself and refresh yourself.
失去目标真的很茫然，高速规定车速低于60迈会罚款，但是我一直就开30、40迈，不知道要往哪跑。
Losing my aim is really at a loss, setting the speed limit at a high speed below 60 mph can be a fine, but I keep driving 30 or 40 mph, not knowing where to run.
我觉得自己真的撑不下去了，挺不下去了。
I don't think I can handle it anymore. I can't go on.
快崩溃了。
It's gonna break down.
就这么漫无目的中，我就想着还是回离荆州近一点的地方，不至于被排斥，这时导航出了点问题，我跑反了，几天没睡觉了，头昏脑胀的，朝着相反的汉中的方向跑去了。
So aimless, I thought I would go back closer to Jingzhou, not to be ostracized, then something went wrong with the navigation, and I ran backwards, out of bed for a few days, dizzy and heading in the opposite direction.
真的非常非常累了。
I'm really, really tired.
29号，我就在汉中高速上一个很开阔的紧急停车的地方睡了，太累了。
On the 29th, I slept in a very open emergency parking place on the Hanzhong Highway. I was so tired.
到了下午两三点钟吧，有人敲窗户，我一看是交警，他们看了我的证件，说这是违法停车，罚200块钱，现在特殊情况，暂时不处理你，我就跟他们说我太累了，能不能让我睡一会再走，我实在是太困了。
At two or three o'clock in the afternoon, someone knocked at the window, and when I saw the traffic police, they read my papers and said it was a parking violation and fined $200. Now, in exceptional circumstances, if I don't take care of you for the time being, I'll tell them I'm too tired.
他们了解了这个情况之后，很重视，就带我到一个最近的高速收费站，说我们可以到那解决一下，你这样疲劳驾驶在高速上太危险了。
When they learned about it, they took me to the nearest toll station and said we could get there to fix it. It's too dangerous for you to drive so tired on the highway.
（编者注：也正是在这时他被拍到了那段「太累了」的视频，2月8日，这段视频开始在网络上广为流传。
(Editor's Note: It was then that he was filmed with the "Too Tired" video, which started to circulate on the Internet on Feb. 8.
）Play到了收费站，工作人员给我量体温、登记，还给我买了水果。
The clerk took my temperature, checked me in and bought me some fruit.
当时我真的激动得掉眼泪了，这几天就一直在往前开，不知道什么时候是尽头，真的扛不下去了，薅自己的头发，让自己清醒一点，好几次都差点撞在高速的护栏上面，突然有人这么关心我还给我送吃的喝的，我真的太感动了。
I was so excited that I started to cry. I had been driving on for a few days and I didn't know when it was over. I didn't know when it was over. I just gathered up my hair to wake up and nearly hit the railing several times.
他们说你要实在太累了，别的地方不让外省车辆走，我们给你找个地方让你休息休息，然后你想办法还是回到你老家去。
They say you're too tired to let provincial cars go anywhere else. We'll find you a place to rest, and then you'll have to go back to your hometown.
后来他们就让我在汉中北服务区休息。
Later they let me rest in the service area of Hanzhong North.
把车停在这。
park your car here.
最开始必须有一个隔离、观察期，他们就安排我在车上住着，早上还有人给我量体温，还给我送馒头，给我的车消毒。
At first there had to be a period of isolation and observation. They arranged for me to live in the car, and in the morning someone took my temperature and gave me steamed bread to disinfect my car.
第一天在服务区休息，我睡了十多个小时。
The first day off in the service area, I slept more than ten hours.
3漂流的这些天，我从来没有觉得这些政策不合理的时刻，我当过兵，这些大是大非的道理我都懂，国难当头，匹夫有责。
3 drifting these days, I have never felt that these policies unreasonable moment, I have become a soldier, I understand all the reasons, the country is difficult to take responsibility.
能克服一下困难就克服一下，也是对国家做的一点贡献，我都能理解，也支持。
I can understand and support the contribution that I can make to my country by overcoming difficulties and overcoming them.
我的车是江淮牌4米高栏轻卡车，1公里空车油钱7、8毛，载货的话是1块1、1块2。
My car is Jianghuai brand 4 meters tall column light truck, 1 kilometer empty car fuel money 7, 8 Mao, the words of cargo is 1 dollar 1, 1 2.
从初一到初五，四天四夜的时间，都是空车在跑，过路费和油钱总共是3000多块钱，没有省油的办法，唯一的办法就是停车，我中间断断续续休息的时间只有7、8个小时。
From the first day of junior high school to the fifth day of junior high school, four days and four nights, all empty cars were running, the tolls and the gas bill totaled more than $3,000. There was no way to save money. The only way to do this was to stop, and I had only intermittent breaks of 7 or 8 hours.
我从去年十月份开始开货车，一个月情况好点收入是6000块钱左右，差点的时候5000多一点，标准的一趟活是两天，一个月跑十几趟。
I had been driving a van since October, and my monthly income was about $6,000, a little over 5,000, and the standard trip was two days, a dozen times a month.
这几天在高速上漂着，半个月的收入就赔进去了。
These days on the high-speed floating, half a month's income on the lost.
其实折腾了几天，直线距离只有5、6百公里，成本几百块钱的油加过路费，1000块钱左右吧。
Actually toss a few days, straight distance is only 5, 600 kilometers, cost a few hundred dollars of oil and road tolls, 1000 yuan or so.
但是在这种不停地跑的情况下，又走了很多重复的路，无形之中距离就增加了一倍，钱全耗在了油上面。
But in this unceasing running situation, walk a lot of repeat road, invisible distance doubled, the money spent on oil.
在服务区安顿下来之后，才敢跟家里人说这些天这么狼狈，父母都70多岁了，身体也不好，所以我都是报喜不报忧。
After settling down in the service area, dare to tell the family that these days so awkward, parents are more than 70 years old, health is not good, so I am happy not to worry.
服务区的人对我挺好，我想着尽量不给别人添麻烦，免得还有人赶我走。
The people in the service area were very kind to me, and I tried not to cause trouble to anyone else, so that no one would send me away.
另外为了避免误会，我都尽量不下车，少喝水，差不多晚上人少一点的时候，八九点钟，我下去吃个泡面。
In order to avoid misunderstanding, I try not to get out of the car, less water, almost at night when less people, eight or nine o'clock, I went down to eat noodles.
白天在车上也没啥打发时间的，发发呆，睡睡觉。
During the day in the car there is nothing to pass the time, dazed, sleep.
到处看一看，看看太阳，看看天，其实一般像我们跑货车时间跑长了，这种孤独也能受得了，也习惯了。
Look around, look at the sun, look at the sky, in fact, like we ran long truck time, this kind of loneliness can endure, and used to.
手机是花400多块钱买的杂牌子的智能机，里面也没什么娱乐活动，下APP太麻烦了，还要费流量。
The mobile phone is a miscellaneous brand of smart for more than 400 yuan, there is no entertainment activities inside, APP too cumbersome, but also the flow of money.
我的驾驶座后面有块板子，宽60厘米，长2米，上面铺床被子就可以睡觉了。
There was a board behind my driver, 60 centimeters wide and 2 meters long, on which I could sleep with a bed quilt.
晚上车里实在太冷就把车发动了开暖风吹一吹，顺便给手机充会电，最多40分钟到1个小时，开时间长了也耗油。
At night, the car is too cold to start a warm wind blowing, and the phone will charge up to 40 minutes to 1 hour, driving a long time also consume oil.
车里空间小，暖风能维持一段时间。
There is little room in the car for a warm wind.
开货车之前，我在江西搞铝合金安装制作，生意呢不太好，另外结工钱这一块呢很麻烦，结账周期很长。
Before driving the truck, I was doing aluminum alloy installation in Jiangxi, business is not very good, another piece of wages is troublesome, the checkout cycle is very long.
我在外打工，一出来好几个月，家里照顾不上，所以我就不做了。
I worked outside for a few months, and I couldn't take care of it at home, so I stopped.
我有几个朋友也在跑货车，他们说就是辛苦一点，我说行，别的没有，力气是有的。
Some of my friends were running trucks, and they said it was hard work. I said yes, nothing else. Strength was there.
我找了一些亲戚朋友借了2万多块钱买的这辆二手货车，这钱现在还没还上。
I asked some of my relatives and friends to lend me more than $20, 000 for the used car, which I still haven't paid back.
想想真的对不住我儿子，从他3岁起我就一直在外面打工，很少有时间陪他，只能在家的时候尽量多陪陪他，跟他打闹一下，让他也感受一点父爱。
My son has been working outside since he was 3 years old. I seldom have time to spend with him. I can only stay with him when I am at home, fight with him and let him feel a little fatherly love.
孩子懂事，这几天视频会给我讲个小故事，说个小笑话，跟我讲他的同学、老师，说他们学校搞的活动。
Children sensible, these days the video will tell me a small story, tell a joke, tell me about his classmates, teachers, their school activities.
服务区的领导一直很重视这个事情。
The leaders of the service areas have been taking this very seriously.
今天（2月8日）早上，我被安排在了一个客房里，就像宾馆的标间，有空调、电视还有热水器可以洗澡，挺方便的。
Today, Feb. 8, I was placed in a guest room, like a hotel's standard room, with air conditioning, a TV and a water heater to shower.
我可以免费住到回家为止。
I can stay free until I get home.
躺在床上的感觉很舒展，从来没这么舒展地睡过觉。
It was so relaxing to be in bed that I had never slept so well.
还可以翻个身，有个家的感觉了。
You can turn around and feel at home.
我很想家，春节是咱们传统的节日，有钱没钱，都要回家过年，全家团圆嘛，父母也很担心我。
I miss home very much, Spring Festival is our traditional festival, money do not have money, have to go home for the New Year, family reunion, parents are worried about me.
年三十的晚上我就在高速的服务区过的，人们都回家吃年夜饭了，几乎没什么人，就我一台车，也买不到什么吃的，开水还有，还是吃的泡面。
I was in the high-speed service area on the night of New Year's Eve, and people went home to have New Year's Eve dinners.
我真的不知道什么时候才能回家，对以后的事情也不知道怎么打算。
I really do not know when to go home, and I do not know how to plan for the future.
今天（指接受采访的2月8日）通过媒体的报道，天门市的交通局也联系到了这边高速服务区的领导，说如果我愿意回去，他们可以来接我，但是我也不想给他们添麻烦，而且我回去之后也还要有14天的观察期，又要占用家乡的资源，他们来接我也要花费周折，本来当地的财政就不富裕，现在重疫区，很多医院物资也很紧缺，所以我还是在这边再待一段时间，不想给家乡的政府添麻烦。
The city's transportation bureau contacted the local highway service chief and said that if I wanted to go back, they could pick me up, but I didn't want to cause them any trouble.
如果我能回家，第一件我想做的事就是，我有一台车，我可以给一些医院送一些应急物资。
If I can go home, the first thing I want to do is, I have a car and I can send emergency supplies to some hospitals.
因为我在外面这么多天了，我是健康的，不会有传染性，所以要拉应急物资我是最佳人选了吧。
Because I've been out here for so many days, I'm healthy and not contagious, so I'm the best person to pull emergency supplies.
我们是个农业大市，按照往年，这应该正是春耕的时候了，现在一般的车进不去，如果我是非疫区来的人员呢，我来拉这些生产物资也比较合适，我就想为家乡做一些贡献。
We are a big agricultural market, according to previous years, this should be the time for spring ploughing, now ordinary cars can not enter, if I am from non-epidemic areas, I would like to pull these production materials more appropriate, I would like to do something for my hometown.
在服务区的前几天，我还能从天黑睡到第二天早上，三四天之后作息就紊乱了，有时候突然醒了恍恍惚惚地不知道在什么地方，有时候看着外面也不知道是虚幻还是现实。
In the first few days of the service zone, I was able to sleep from dark until the next morning, and after three or four days my work was disturbed, and sometimes I would wake up in a daze and not know where I was, and sometimes I would not know whether it was an illusion or a reality.
已经不知道自己存在了。
I don't know I exist anymore.
可能是在一个封闭的条件下待的时间长了，还有就是心理压力大。
It could be a long stay in a closed environment, but also a lot of psychological stress.
我们是靠货车才能生活，你看现在湖北的车很敏感，不知道疫情结束之后，老百姓的心理能转过弯来吗，如果他们还这么排斥湖北的车，我不知道我还能不能装上货。
You see Hubei's car is very sensitive, do not know the end of the epidemic, the people's psychology can turn around, if they still so repelled Hubei car, I do not know if I can load.
我一家人靠着这个车吃饭，怎么办？我妻子没有工作，全家5口人都指望这车，这车要不跑，就没办法（生活）。
What if my family lives off this car? My wife has no job and my family of five are counting on this car, otherwise it won't be able to run.
这是最揪心的问题。
This is the most troubling question.
不能回家，条件差一点还能克服。
Can not go home, conditions are almost overcome.
我儿子今年读6年级，9月份要考初中，正为难呢，还不知道将来学费怎么办。
My son is in the sixth grade this year and will take the junior high school exam in September. He is in a dilemma.
成绩好一点可以去个好点的学校，考得不好也不能找个很差的学校，不能毁了他的一生，还是想办法找个学校，花点钱，如果不能在9月份之前攒2万左右，真的是有点耽误他了。
You can go to a better school, you can't get a bad school, you can't ruin your life, or you can find a school and spend a little money.
视觉中国没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Visual China Not Enough? More exciting stories are waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在高速公路上漂流。
Drifting on the highway.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在高速公路上漂流";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the highway.
var msg_desc = "湖北天门成为了他手机导航里一个无法抵达的终点。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Hubei Tianmen was an unreachable end point in his cellphone navigation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
