在人间丨《我不是药神》抗疫版。
Anti-epidemic version of the world, I'm not a drug god.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品1月28日下午两点，一位在武汉隔离病房的母亲刚刚吸出一些母乳。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet production studio January 28 at 2 p.m., a isolation ward in Wuhan, a mother has just inhaled some breast milk.
她有两个孩子，小的还在哺乳期。
She has two children, the youngest of whom is still nursing.
这是向松鼠哥求助的200多名新冠肺炎感染者之一。
This is one of more than 200 people who have sought help from Brother Squirrel.
松鼠哥是一名HIV感染者。
Squirrel is a person infected with HIV.
1月28日，他发布微博，称可以向确诊的新冠肺炎患者免费提供克力芝，药品主要来自国内HIV感染者的捐赠。
On January 28, he posted a microblog that said Kaletra could be provided free of charge to patients diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia, mainly from donations from people living with HIV in the country.
5天前，1月23日，曾感染新型冠状病毒的国家卫健委专家组成员、北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发表示，一种名为“洛匹那韦利托那韦片”的药物对他个人来说是有效的。
Five days ago, on January 23, Wang Guangfa, a member of the National Health Care Commission's panel of experts who had contracted the new coronavirus and director of respiratory and critical medicine at Peking University Hospital No. 1, said a drug called "Lopina Velitonavir tablets" was personally effective.
这种“洛匹那韦利托那韦片”药物就是克力芝，一种用于抗艾滋病毒的药物。
The drug "Lopinavelitonavir" is Kaletra, an anti-HIV drug.
《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》提出，可试用但应谨慎使用。
The "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme" suggests that it should be used with caution.
一时间，求助的患者陆续赶来。
For a while, the help of the patients came.
“你好，请提供相关凭证。
"Hello, please provide the relevant documents.
”这是松鼠哥和求助者在微信上的开场白。
"This is the preface to the letter from Brother Squirrel and the supplicant.
隔离病房里的母亲传过来所在房间照片、刚吸出的母乳照，还有写着“病毒性肺炎”的医疗诊断证明，“可以救助我吗？”虽然没有做核酸检测，但通过CT，她知道自己“中了”。
Mother in the isolation ward sent pictures of her room, breast-milk photos she had just taken, and a medical certificate that said "Can I be saved?" Although she did not have a nucleic acid test, she knew she was "hit" through CT.
“试剂盒有限，这里住的都是新冠病毒感染患者”。
"There is a limited number of test kits. People living here are newly infected with the virus."
她所在的医院位于武汉市江汉区。
Her hospital is in Jianghan district of Wuhan.
江汉区是疫区中心，华南海鲜市场所在地。
Jianghan District is the epicenter of the epidemic area, South China seafood market location.
核对好地址后，松鼠哥给她快递了一份药，并叮嘱，“不要挤奶给小孩喝，乳汁很可能传播病毒。
After checking the address, Brother Squirrel gave her a prescription. "Don't milk the baby. The milk is likely to transmit the virus.
”但其实，这碗奶不会喂给她那嗷嗷待哺的孩子。
But in fact, the bowl of milk was not fed to her infant child.
她只是每天隔几个小时吸一次奶，扔掉，再吸。
She just sucks every couple of hours a day, throws it away and sucks again.
她希望自己有机会活下来，治愈之后可以接着母乳喂养孩子。
She wants to have a chance to survive and then breastfeed her baby after she is cured.
克力芝是用于治疗HIV的蛋白酶抑制剂，包括“洛匹那韦”（lopinavir）和“利托那韦”（ritonavir）两种主要成分。
Kaletra is a protease inhibitor used to treat HIV and includes two major components: lopinavir and ritonavir.
这两种成分，也出现在《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》的一般治疗方案中。
These two components also appear in the general treatment regimen of the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme.
试行第五版中注明：需注意洛匹那韦/利托那韦的不良反应。
In the fifth edition of the trial, it was indicated that the adverse effects of Lopinavir / ritonavir should be noted.
松鼠哥知道，私自将处方药送给新冠肺炎患者要承担很大风险。
Brother Squirrel knew that giving prescription drugs to patients with pneumonia was a big risk.
然而，一方面，医院接受外来药品是违规的，另一方面，医生直接递交药品给患者也是违规的。
However, on the one hand, it is illegal for hospitals to accept foreign medicines, and on the other hand, it is illegal for doctors to deliver drugs directly to patients.
目前，想要高效快速、合理合法地把药送到有需求的患者手中，只有一个办法，就是患者直接赠与患者。
At present, the only way to get drugs to patients in need efficiently, reasonably and legally is by giving them directly to patients.
松鼠哥说，这个活动只能依靠民间发起，而这两个患者群体的“中间人”，他可以来做。
Squirrel says the activity can only be initiated by the people, and the two groups of patients "middlemen," he can do.
最初的求助人，大约四分之一都是被感染的医护人员。
About a quarter of the first responders were infected health-care workers.
普通患者，每人只能领一份药，但对于医务人员，松鼠哥最多提供两份药，这样他们可以匀给其他被感染的同事。
The average patient can only get one pill per person, but for medical staff, Squirrel can give up to two doses so that they can spare other infected colleagues.
服用克力芝后，会有肠胃和肝脏副作用，松鼠哥会提醒求助人，“不要给穿着防护服的医生吃，会不方便，先给在病床上的医生。
Acrylic cheese, there will be gastrointestinal and liver side effects, squirrel brother will remind the help, "do not give protective clothing to the doctor, it will be inconvenient, first on the bed doctor.
”面对求助人，松鼠哥一直很干脆，“地址、凭证给我，避免恐慌性的描述”，太多的交流对他来说是一种心理负担。
"Squirrel to help people, has been very straightforward," address, credentials to me, avoid panic description, "too much communication is a psychological burden for him.
一位父母离异的女孩为她的母亲求药，“我妈妈有精神障碍，同时患上病毒性肺炎，现在医院”。
A divorced girl pleaded with her mother for medication. "My mother has a mental disorder and she has viral pneumonia, now at the hospital."
女孩的消息让松鼠哥想起了自己的父亲，父亲也是因为类似的精神疾病去世的。
The news of the girl reminded Brother Squirrel of his father, who had died of a similar mental illness.
于是他从为家人准备的药里拿出了一人份，送给这位女孩。
So he took a portion of the medicine for his family and gave it to the girl.
在有些人看来，来找松鼠哥的人有些病急乱投医，“不考虑副作用吗？克力芝副作用还是挺大的”；也有人反驳“副作用和活命，你选哪个？”事实上，那些前来求助的新冠肺炎患者，大部分都走投无路，更重要的是，“听说有用”。
For some, the man who came to see Brother Squirrel was a bit ill, "without considering the side effects? Calderon's side effects are quite large"; others refuted "Side effects and survival, which one do you choose?" In fact, most of those who came for help were desperate and, more importantly, "useful to hear."
用松鼠哥的话说，“如果抗病毒药是后宫的话，克力芝应该就是《延禧攻略》里的娴妃吧，资历最老，一直不温不火，也不受宠的一个妃子，突然一下子逆袭当上皇后了。
In the words of Brother Squirrel, "If the antiviral drug is the harem, then Kaletra should be Xian Fei in" The Jubilee Attack ".
”两天时间，国内HIV感染者捐出的约60瓶克力芝派发殆尽。
About 60 bottles of Kaletra donated by people living with HIV in the country were given out in two days.
面对迫切的需求，松鼠哥和朋友自费从印度三次购买克力芝，大都还在路上。
Faced with pressing needs, Brother Squirrel and his friends bought Kaletra from India three times at their own expense, mostly on their way.
求药的人依旧络绎不绝，松鼠哥只能先给他们排号。
People continue to ask for medicine, squirrel brother can only give them first row number.
“HIV患者，吃药八年”，这是松鼠哥的微博简介。
"HIV sufferer, take medicine 8 years," this is squirrel brother microblogging brief.
在他的微博里，出现最多的是药物科普，偶尔也有关于个人生活的记录和感悟。
In his micro-blog, the most is the drug popular science, but also occasionally about personal life records and insights.
2017年，他为HIV感染者做了一个网络借药平台。
In 2017, he created an online borrowing platform for people living with HIV.
虽说是平台，其实就是他自己，像松鼠屯坚果一样屯药，再帮助他人。
Although it was a platform, it was himself, stocking up like squirrel-tun nuts and helping others.
借药平台起初是为HIV感染者提供帮助。
The borrowing platform was originally designed to help people living with HIV.
一方面，HIV感染者可从当地疾控部门或定点治疗医院免费领取克力芝，但由于各种原因，有的HIV感染者没能及时去领药，另一方面，服用克立芝可能出现高血脂症、腹泻等副作用，并不受病友青睐，有的人干脆换成其他自费药，这些人手中就有了闲置的克力芝。
On the one hand, people living with HIV can receive Kaletra free of charge from local disease control departments or designated treatment hospitals. However, for various reasons, some people living with HIV do not get their medicine in time. On the other hand, taking Clichy may have side effects such as hyperlipidemia and diarrhea.
松鼠哥通过微博，将这些闲置的克力芝聚集起来。
Squirrel gathers the idle Kaletra through microblogging.
那些没能及时去机构领药的病友就可以向松鼠哥的平台求助。
Those who fail to get medicine in time can turn to the Squirrel's platform for help.
在参考新冠肺炎治疗手册及一些服用反馈后，松鼠哥决定将面向HIV感染者的借药平台开放给新冠肺炎患者。
After referring to a new crown pneumonia treatment manual and some feedback, Squirrel decided to open up a borrowing platform for people living with HIV to patients with Newcrown Pneumonia.
尽管他知道这么做有很大的风险：克力芝是处方药，需要在医嘱下服用，患者出事了可能会找他麻烦。
Although he knew there was a big risk: Kaletra was a prescription drug that needed to be prescribed and the patient could be in trouble if something went wrong.
对于求药者和捐药者，松鼠哥都要进行筛选。
Brother Squirrel is screened for both drug-seekers and drug donors.
新冠肺炎感染者必须提供与肺炎相关的医疗凭证，而对于捐药的HIV感染者，考虑到有些人免疫力较低，为防感染新冠病毒，松鼠哥也会叫他们留下一盒以备不时之需。
Pneumonia patients must provide a medical certificate related to pneumonia, and in the case of HIV-infected patients, given that some people have lower immunity, Squirrel will ask them to keep one for a rainy day.
松鼠哥在河南郑州，求助者来自全国各地。
Squirrel brother in Zhengzhou, Henan, the caller from all over the country.
对于武汉的新冠病毒感染者，他一开始是通过快递送药；后来，在别人的帮助下，他先把药品快递给武汉城内的视频博主“蜘蛛哥”，“蜘蛛哥”再开车一一送去。
Wuhan for the new crown virus infection, he began by express delivery of drugs; later, with the help of others, he quickly handed the drugs to Wuhan city video blogger "Spider Brother," "Spider Brother" sent one by one.
在疫情发生之前，松鼠哥一边工作，一边做借药平台的公益，可能一个月只有一两个人来借药，很轻松。
Before the outbreak, Brother Squirrel worked as a volunteer on a drug-lending platform, and probably had only one or two people a month to borrow medicine, which was easy.
但武汉封城后，湖北很多二级县市也封了，有些无法回城领药且因为隐私问题不愿向所在地疾控部门寻求帮助的HIV感染者也向松鼠哥求助。
But after the closure of Wuhan, many secondary counties in Hubei were also closed, and some people who could not go back to their cities to receive medicine and were reluctant to seek help from local disease control authorities because of privacy concerns also turned to Brother Squirrel for help.
“我的生活作息被打乱了，几乎没有时间睡觉。
"My life is disturbed and I have little time to sleep.
当时可能一天要发20、30个包裹，很忙很忙。
It could have been 20 or 30 parcels a day, very busy and busy.
”国内药物不够时他也没有公开募捐，只是和好友集资从印度买药，“因为这是效率最高的做法，犹豫是一种将我们和目标拉得越来越远的力量”。
Nor did he raise money publicly when there was not enough medicine at home, only raising money with friends to buy medicine from India, "because it is the most efficient way, and hesitation is a force that draws us farther and farther away from our goals."
2 月 4 日，李兰娟院士团队公布最新研究成果：根据初步测试，阿比朵尔、达芦那韦能有效抑制冠状病毒，抗艾滋病药物克力芝对治疗新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎效果不佳，且有毒副作用。
On February 4, the team of academicians Li Lan-juan released their latest research results: According to preliminary tests, Abidol and Daruinawire can effectively suppress coronavirus. Kaletra, an anti-AIDS drug, is ineffective in treating pneumonia caused by a new coronavirus infection and has toxic side effects.
她建议将阿比朵尔、达芦那韦两种药物列入国家卫健委《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案(试行第六版)》。
She recommended the inclusion of Abidol and Daruinawa drugs in the NCHRC's Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for New Coronavirus Infection (Trial Version 6).
在《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》试行第三、四、五版中，都出现了“洛匹那韦/利托那韦”，即克力芝。
In the 3rd, 4th and 5th editions of the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia due to New Coronavirus Infection," "Lopinavir / Litonavir," or Kaletra, appeared.
松鼠哥一直很担心在第六版的指南中，克力芝会被剔除。
Brother Squirrel has been worried that Kaletra will be rejected in the sixth edition of the guide.
他虽然不太清楚阿比朵尔，但是知道“达芦那韦的储量是非常少的，目前国内版本的商品名叫普泽力，是达芦那韦和考比司他的组合片剂，国内零售价是一盒1500元，吃的人非常非常少。
Although he did not know Abidol very well, he knew that "the reserves of Darusovir are very small. The current domestic version of the product, Puseli, is a combination of Daruthavi and Corbistha, with a domestic retail price of 1,500 yuan a box and very few people eat it.
”■ 2月9日到达郑州的100盒印度版克力芝。
:: 100 boxes of Kaletra, an Indian version, arrived in Zhengzhou on February 9.
他和朋友自费从印度购买了428盒克力芝，“如果后面第六版指南将克力芝剔除了，我这个活动就会立刻终止，不论我们救助到第几位患者，我们就会立刻打住，不会再提供。
He and his friends bought 428 boxes of Kaletra from India at their own expense. "If the sixth edition eliminates Kaletra, my activities will be terminated immediately.
在第六版没有出来之前，我们还会继续进行。
We're going to keep working on it until Release 6 comes out.
”松鼠哥算过了，按照第五版治疗指南，一个人吃14天、一天两次、一次两粒，国内原厂abbvie的克力芝一瓶可供两名新冠患者，印度版一瓶只可以供应一人。
Squirrel had calculated that, according to the fifth edition of the treatment guide, one person could eat 14 days, twice a day, two tablets at a time.
截至2月6日，来找松鼠哥的患者已经排到了约100号。
As of February 6, the people who came to look for Brother Squirrel had reached about 100.
也是这天，松鼠哥得知一批药品滞留海关，需要提供药品进口许可证才能放行。
On the same day, Brother Squirrel learned that a shipment of medicines was stranded at customs and needed an import license to be released.
他想要拿到这批药，必须先去找受捐单位（医院），拿着医院开出的接收材料，去找药监局开药品进口许可证交给海关。
In order to obtain the medicine, he had to go to the donator's office (hospital), take the materials from the hospital and ask the Drug Administration to issue an import license for the drugs to the customs.
当天晚上18时43分，开车去药监局之前，松鼠哥在朋友圈向正在排号的求助人说明情况，告诉大家他已托朋友联系武汉的医院。
At 18: 43 p.m. that night, before driving to the Drug Enforcement Administration, squirrel brother in the circle of friends to line up to help people, told people that he had entrusted friends to contact Wuhan hospitals.
但这批药品能否顺利抵达武汉仍是未知数。
However, it is still unknown whether the medicine will reach Wuhan smoothly.
他将微博的签名改成了：“各位别再找我要克力芝了”。
He changed his signature to read: "Don't ask me for Kaletra anymore."
2月8日，一个叫做“希望小组”的民间组织，帮松鼠哥从香港人肉背回100盒印度版克力芝，这100盒已于9日中午抵达郑州。
On February 8, a non-governmental organization called Hope Group helped squirrel brother bring back 100 boxes of Kaletra from Hong Kong to Zhengzhou at noon on February 9.
此外，该小组也帮松鼠哥的另外328盒克力芝找到了接受捐赠的医院。
In addition, the team also helped Brother Squirrel find another 328 boxes of Kaletra to receive donations to the hospital.
随即，松鼠哥的微博签名也改成了“新冠病人救助”并注明了自己的联系方式。
Immediately, squirrel elder brother's microblogging signature also changed to "new crown patient aid" and indicated own contact information.
无论是HIV感染者还是新冠肺炎患者，都有人将松鼠哥称作“药神”。
Whether infected with HIV or with new crown pneumonia, some people call Brother Squirrel "Pharmacogonia."
对他来说，救人固然是第一目的，但也有自己的私心——“我对药有感情，我不想他们被闲置、被浪费”。
For him, saving people is the first goal, but also has their own selfish - "I have feelings for drugs, I do not want them idle, wasted."
他说，药是能救命的，送药给新冠患者，是迫切的。
He said that the medicine is life-saving, delivery to the new crown patients, is urgent.
他认为“现在最需要这个药的是新型冠状病毒肺炎感染者，非吃克力芝不可的HIV感染者比例很小”。
"The new coronavirus pneumonia is the most needed drug," he said. "The proportion of people infected with HIV who must take Kaletra is very small."
吃药八年的松鼠哥，在头三年吃的都是克力芝，后来自费换了其他的药物。
Take medicine eight years squirrel brother, eat in the first three years are Kaletra, later paid for other drugs.
他说，“长期服用克力芝确实对肠胃、肝脏有影响，但都没有严重到不可承受的程度，而且伤害并非不可逆”。
"Long-term use of Kaletra does have effects on the stomach and liver, but none is too severe to bear and the harm is not irreversible," he said.
“无论是HIV还是新型冠状病毒，初期的感染者都容易将它想成绝症，从而在恐慌中做出错误的判断。
"Whether it is HIV or the new coronavirus, the initial infected people tend to think of it as a terminal illness, thus making false judgments in panic.
”松鼠哥说，除了坚定的求生信念，科学的信息对于患者来说非常重要。
"In addition to a strong belief in survival, scientific information is important to patients," said Squirrel.
“我不提供心理援助服务，但是我希望给大家做HIV的科普。
"I don't offer psychological support, but I want to get everyone HIV-free.
有了更客观的认识，心里就不会有那么多想法”。
With a more objective understanding, the mind would not have so many ideas.
从害怕到接受，他真切地思考过死亡和生活。
From fear to acceptance, he really thought about death and life.
在面对这次新型冠状病毒肺炎蔓延时，松鼠哥反而没有这么害怕，“我有坚定的求生意识，也没有那么怕死”。
Faced with the spread of this new coronavirus pneumonia, brother squirrel is not so afraid, "I have a strong sense of survival, and not so afraid of death."
HIV让他学会自救。
HIV taught him to save himself.
当卫健委的治疗指南中出现洛匹那韦/利托那韦时，松鼠哥就开始为自己的家人准备克力芝和其他药物以备不测。
When Lopinavir / Ritonavir appeared in the health committee's treatment guidelines, Squirrel began preparing Kaletra and other medicines for his family in case of emergency.
八年前，大学毕业，夏末入秋时，松鼠哥查出感染HIV。
Eight years ago, after graduating from college, Squirrel found out that he was infected with HIV in late summer.
那一年的秋冬自然是寒冷的，惨淡的心情就像斯巴达克斯在大战前的薄雾中遥望着罗马大军摆阵，完全是等待。
The autumn and winter of that year were, of course, cold and bleak, like Spartacs watching the Roman army in the mist before the war, waiting.
在成为HIV感染者之初，松鼠哥曾认为他永久地失去了追求自由的机会，三个月领一次药的制度，让他只能在同一个城市循规蹈矩地生活；但同时他也学会了放下追求完满的执念，经历过这些，“我不会再追求十全十美”。
When he first became infected with HIV, Brother Squirrel thought he had lost his chance of freedom forever. A three-month regimen of drugs kept him in the same city, but he also learned to let go of the urge to be perfect.
现在的松鼠哥认为自己是幸福的，他很感激自己目前拥有的事业，以及不离不弃的男友；感激自己有一个开明的妈妈，一个会毫不嫌弃地把他吃剩的半碗饭吃掉的阿叔。
Today's squirrel brother thinks he is happy, he is grateful for his current business, as well as his boyfriend; grateful for his enlightened mother, a uncle who will eat his leftover bowl of rice.
家里人都“心照不宣”地知道他的感染。
His infection was known to his family "tacitly."
药物帮他的身体恢复正常，HIV也并不会让他失去自己的生活。
Drugs to help his body return to normal, HIV will not let him lose his life.
“我比以前的我快乐，而且，我相信经常健身的自己比很多同龄人更健康”。
"I'm happier than I used to be, and I believe I'm healthier than many of my peers."
“我做HIV感染者志愿工作将近有三年，做借药平台有两年，接触过很多HIV感染者。
"I have been a volunteer for nearly three years, a borrowing platform for two years, and I have been exposed to a lot of people living with HIV.
这个群体是非常丰富的，包含各种各样的职业、年龄段和收入层次，每个人都有自己生活的悲喜，和波澜壮阔的内心世界。
This group is very rich, including a variety of occupations, age groups and income levels, everyone has their own life of sadness, and magnificent inner world.
”在HIV的互助群里有人开玩笑问松鼠哥，“如果可以选，HIV和新冠你选哪个？”“HIV跟了我八年，都有感情了，不选它会吃醋的。
In the HIV support group, someone joked to Brother Squirrel, "If you had the choice, HIV and the new crown, which would you choose?" "HIV has been with me for eight years and would be jealous if I didn't choose it.
”在他看来，HIV是朋友，而新型冠状肺炎，是敌人。
In his view, HIV is a friend, and the new form of coronary pneumonia is the enemy.
声明提醒：卫健委专家组成员王广发早前称“克力芝”对他有效，《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》（试行第三、四、五版）的一般治疗方案中将该药列入。
The statement reminded: Wei Guang-fan expert group member Wang Guangfa earlier said that "Kaletra" effective for him, "the new coronavirus infection diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 3, 4, 5) of the general treatment programme to include the drug.
需要注意的是，包括钟南山在内的医学专家都指出，该新型冠状病毒目前无有效的针对性药物。
It is important to note that medical experts, including Zhong Nan Shan, pointed out that the new coronavirus currently has no effective targeted drugs.
试行第五版中注明：需注意洛匹那韦/利托那韦的不良反应。
In the fifth edition of the trial, it was indicated that the adverse effects of Lopinavir / ritonavir should be noted.
一定要谨慎使用。
Be careful with it.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：(一)疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨《我不是药神》抗疫版。
Anti-epidemic version of the world, I'm not a drug god.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨《我不是药神》抗疫版";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; in the human world, I'm not a drug god;
var msg_desc = "无人能做的中间人，感染HIV的我来做。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a middleman nobody can do, HIV infected me.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉七旬健美冠军，没能度过这个冬天',。
& nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（三）：4个离家和回家的故事',。
Ritual: & amp; # 39; & # 45; Imaged Diary into the World; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
