口述实录 | 上海地铁7号线值班站长“丽姐”的一天。
Oral record & # 144; & # 44; One day at Shanghai Metro Line 7 duty station master "Lijie."
王丽丽 吴雪。
Lily Wang Wu Xue.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
我是值班站长，我更心疼每天在站台、在收银台、在闸口、安检口值守的同事们，如果你问我，他们的父母会担心吗？会害怕吗？我想都会有的，但没有一个人说过，要请假，要退缩，要放弃。
I am the duty station master, I love every day in the platform, at the checkout, at the gate, security checkpoints, if you ask me, their parents will worry? Will you fear? I think there will be, but none said, to take leave, to shrink, to give up.
口述| 王丽丽整理| 吴  雪大年初十，清晨4：30，我比往常提早了半小时出门，老公从家里开车送我到接驳地铁站，前往工作地点上海7号线常熟路车站，作为地铁系统的一名普通值班站长，在常熟路站工作了11年，早已习惯了春节没有假期的日常，只是今年格外地不同。
At 4: 30 a.m., at the beginning of last year, my husband drove me from home to the Shuai subway station and to Changshu Road station on Line 7 in Shanghai. As an ordinary station master on Changshu Road, I worked at Changshu Road Station on the subway system for 11 years.
2月6日的7号线常熟路地铁站，受访者供图我叫王丽丽，同事们都叫我“丽姐”。
February 6th, line 7 Changshu Road subway station, respondents for my name is Lily Wang, colleagues call me "Lijie."
常熟路早班车的运营时间是六点零一分，每到值班换班的前一晚，为了做好每班之间的衔接工作，我们3位值班站长都养成了隔天晚上电话沟通、交接事项的习惯。
Changshu Road early bus operation time is 6.05, every shift the night before, in order to do a good job between each shift, we three on-duty station master formed the habit of telephone communication, handover matters the next night.
自从1月22日，站点要求必须戴口罩、进出站消毒测体温的通知下发开始，运营前的准备工作变得不同寻常，站长作为第一个到站的人，提前到站的这30分钟，尤为重要。
Since Jan. 22, when the site required masks to be worn and signs issued to disinfect the station to take temperature measurements, pre-operational preparations have become unusual and it is particularly important that the station master, as the first person to arrive, arrive 30 minutes earlier.
清晨5：30，我到了车站。
I arrived at the station at 5: 30 a.m.
除了巡视站厅、站台和7个出入口，发放备用金等常规准备工作外，先是配置了1：20滴露稀释消毒液，补足了客服中心、车控室、值班站长室等重点部位的分装瓶，又额外稀释了2大瓶以备随时取用，在客服中心简单喷洒消毒后，等保洁阿姨来了之后，再用小喷瓶二次彻底消杀。
In addition to routine preparations such as inspecting the station hall, the platform and the seven entrances and issuing the usual preparation, such as issuing the petty cash disinfectant, 1: 20 drip-diluted disinfectant was first provided, 2 bottles were diluted for easy access and 2 bottles were diluted for easy access.
站点配备的1：20滴露稀释消毒液，受访者供图5：42，早班的员工开始陆续到岗了，在班前会上，我重点叮嘱每个岗位的员工“戴口罩要规范，口鼻都要遮住”“换岗休息第一件事就是洗手，别忘了用洗手液”。
The site is equipped with 1: 20 droplet dilution disinfectant, interviewees for Figure 5: 42, morning staff began to arrive, at the pre-class meeting, I focus on every staff to "wear mask to standardize, mouth and nose cover" "Wash your hands, don't forget to use hand sanitizer."
这些也是其他站长昨晚重点叮嘱的。
These are also the other stationmaster last night key order.
5：54，首班车准时到达常熟路站。
The first bus will arrive at Changshu Road station on time.
监护开关门作业，目送列车驶离站台，而我一天的工作也才刚刚开始。
Watching the train leave the station while my day's work has just begun.
7号线常熟路站值班站长王丽丽（右一），正在为同事测体温。
Line 7 Changshu Road station duty station master Wang Lili (first from the right), is taking temperature for colleagues.
受访者供图常熟路站是大站，紧挨着静安寺，工作日高峰期时人流量最高能达到10万人次，加上换乘站多，站点附近分布的医院也多，防控的不确定性很大。
The respondents to the Tu Changshu Road Station is a large station, next to the Jing An Temple, peak workday traffic can reach up to 100,000 people, plus more transfer stations, the distribution of hospitals near the site, great uncertainty of control.
但情况变化得也很快，我记得，大年初一人流量突然骤降，那天ATM自助售票机的营业额只有200多块钱，包括刷卡、大都会、投币等加在一起，一天的总收入也才6800块。
But things changed so fast, I remember, that on New Year's Day traffic suddenly plummeted, and that the ATM ticket machine had a turnover of just over 200 yuan, including credit cards, metropolises, and coins.
虽说人少了，但我心里的那根弦仍然紧绷着，因为一旦有确诊或疑似病例乘坐地铁，对我们的考验会非常大，为此，我所在的运三公司，为有效阻断疫情扩散传播，根据人流量的划分，启动了A方案、B方案和B+方案。
Although there are fewer people, the string in my heart is still tight, because the test for us will be very great if there is a confirmed or suspected case of taking the subway. To effectively stop the spread of the epidemic, my company has launched Programmes A, B and B + based on the division of human flows.
比方说，当双头班车客流达到1300人及以上时，引导乘客分散车门上车，避免扶梯处大客流聚集风险。
For example, when the double-head train reaches 1,300 passengers or more, passengers should be guided to disperse the door and avoid the risk of large passenger accumulation at the escalator.
特别是针对乘客出现的紧急情况，设置临时隔离区。
In particular, a temporary area of separation was established for passengers in emergency situations.
1月31日，春节值班期间，我的同事静安寺站值班站长施悦峰，曾遇到过一名发热病人，那天早上7：28，一位乘客到站下车后，询问站务员董昉毅附近有没有医院，得到答案后仍逗留在站台。
On January 31, during the Spring Festival duty, my colleague Shi Yuefeng, the duty station chief of Jingan Temple, met a feverish patient. At 7: 28 that morning, a passenger got off the train and asked the operator if there was a hospital near Dong Zhenyi.
发热病人在7号线静安寺站临时隔离点，受访者供图董昉毅主动上前询问情况，乘客这才反映：“身体不适，有发烧的症状。
Fever patient in line 7 Jing An Temple Station temporary isolation point, the interviewee for graph Dong Zhen Yi volunteered to ask the situation, passengers only to reflect: "Body discomfort, fever symptoms.
”虽然后续120医护人员到达现场测量体温后，发现该乘客体温正常，但出于对乘客健康负责，在征得乘客同意后，120医护人员将该乘客送往华山医院。
After 120 paramedics arrived to take a temperature check, the passenger's temperature was found to be normal, but in view of the passenger's responsibility for his health, 120 paramedics took the passenger to Huashan Hospital with his consent.
同时，车站安排了一名工作人员跟随民警乘坐出租车一同前往医院，了解后续情况。
At the same time, the station arranged for a staff member to follow the civilian police in a taxi to the hospital for follow-up.
乘客离开后，车站迅速组织开展了后续消毒工作。
After the passengers left, the station quickly organized the follow-up disinfection work.
施站长通过视频回看，确定了乘客下车的具体车门。
The station master looked back through the video, confirmed the passenger to get off the specific door.
保洁阿姨把站厅、站台都彻底打扫消毒了，重点是下行站台2-1至2-5屏蔽门、候车椅和自动扶梯扶手等乘客停留和行走的地方。
Aunt cleaning station hall, platform have been thoroughly cleaned and disinfected, the focus is on the down platform 2-1 to 2-5 screen doors, waiting chairs and escalator handrails where passengers stay and walk.
后来，根据民警查到的记录，这位乘客刚从湖南回来，情绪有点紧张，我觉得可以理解，希望他没事。
Later, according to the records found by the police, this passenger just returned from Hunan, a little nervous, I feel understandable, hope he is all right.
地铁工作人员正在消毒，受访者供图疫情当前，车站最关心的就是消毒和个人防护工作，7号线静安寺党支部根据公司党委要求，7号线党总支统筹安排，组织支部党员成立疫情防控突击队“静心保障突击队”，我们常熟路站就是其中一员。
At present, the most important concern of the station is disinfection and personal protection work. At the request of the Party committee, the Party branch of the Jing An Temple on Line 7 has organized its Party branch members to set up an epidemic prevention and control commando unit called the Stillheart Protection Commando.
消毒工作是首要，除了列车、办公室、站台等大面积消毒外，门把手、闸口、自助售票机、自动扶梯扶手带、乘客休息室、厕所等也要做到“360度无死角”，这方面，我叮嘱保洁阿姨每间隔两个小时循环消毒一次。
In addition to the extensive disinfection of trains, offices and platforms, door knobs, gates, ticket vending machines, escalator handrails, passenger lounges and toilets are also required to achieve a 360-degree cutoff. In this regard, I instructed Aunt Procter to recycle every two hours.
作为值班站长，我每天都会时刻关注疫情数据，2月3日，我看到全国确诊病例呈现上升趋势，再加上此前无症状传染的新闻报道，内心非常担忧。
As duty station master, I keep an eye on the epidemic data every day. On February 3, I saw an upward trend in confirmed cases across the country, coupled with news reports of asymptomatic transmission.
毕竟，我们站点有33个员工，90后的比例占到一半，特别一些95后的“小朋友”不太好管，戴口罩久了，就想露出鼻子，或者在人少的时候取下来一小会儿。
After all, our site has 33 employees, 90 after the proportion of half, especially after 95 "children" is not very good management, wearing a mask for a long time, would like to expose the nose, or in the small time to take off a short time.
我看到后，就会反复唠叨，虽然他们嘴上会说：“丽姐，你怎么像我妈一样。
When I see this, I get nagging back and forth, although they say, "How come you're like my mother, Liz.
”但还是会乖乖戴好。
"But you're still good.
口罩正确示范，受访者供图在学习园地张贴“防疫顺口溜”，受访者供图在我心里，保证同事们的安全以及乘客的安全，永远是第一位的。
The mask was correctly displayed. Respondents were asked to put up "anti-epidemic messages" in the learning area. The safety of colleagues and passengers was always the first priority.
大家的吃饭问题站里也想了法子，之前是叫外卖，但疫情情况下，为了不增加外卖小哥的风险，我们尽量不叫外卖。
Everybody's food station also thought of a way, before is to order take-out, but in order not to increase the risk of take-out brother, we try not to order take-out.
现在大家都很自觉地带饭，卫生又安全，站点上有一个按照标准消毒的休息室，专门供员工错峰就餐，就算不小心撞在一起，大家也会主动坐很远。
Now everyone is aware of the food, hygiene and safety, the site in accordance with a standard disinfection lounge, specially for staff to eat staggered, even if accidentally hit together, we will actively sit very far.
做好个人防护，是对自己负责，也是对乘客及家人负责，但仍有一些现实情况需要解决。
Personal protection is self-responsible and accountable to passengers and their families, but there are still realities that need to be addressed.
自从疫情阻击战打响以来，地铁上的物资每天消耗非常大，虽然下发了很多，但还是不够用，有时候一线岗位同事一天换一个都很难。
Since the outbreak of the blockade, the daily consumption of goods on the subway, although a lot of issued, but still not enough, sometimes a frontline colleagues are very difficult to change.
我们也尝试着在网上采购，但都不发货。
We also try to shop online, but none of them deliver the goods.
大家知道这个情况后，不同岗位上的同事，开始自发寻找物资支援，比如酒精、口罩、手套等等，这让我非常感动。
As you know, I was very moved when my colleagues in different positions started to look for material support such as alcohol, masks, gloves etc.
1992年出生的周佳吉是我们常熟路站点的“暖男”。
Born in 1992, Zhou Jiagi is our Changshu Road site "warm men."
大年初一15：00，他主动放弃了休息日，专门跑到第一医药连锁药房，购买物资。
New Year's Day 15: 00, he voluntarily gave up the rest day, especially to the first pharmaceutical chain pharmacy, to purchase supplies.
当看到药店门口“无口罩、无酒精、无酒精棉球”的告示，他还是走进药店，买了三盒板蓝根。
When he saw the "no mask, no alcohol, no alcohol cotton" sign at the drugstore door, he went into the pharmacy and bought three boxes of Banlangen.
之后，又特地跑了一次车站，把家里囤的100副医用乳胶手套，专程开车送到了站里。
Afterwards, specially ran a station, hoisted home 100 medical latex gloves, drive to station specially.
周佳吉购买的防疫物资送到了站里，受访者供图静心保障突击队其中一个站点肇嘉浜路站，值班站长孙怡蕾也带着妈妈和老公跑了四家药店排队买口罩，最后终于在昌平路雷允上药店买到了，口罩限购1人5只，他们三人排了2轮，一共买到25只。
The epidemic prevention supplies bought by Zhou Jiagi arrived at the station, where the interviewee offered to stop at Zhaojia Bang Road, one of the static security commando stations. The station master, Sun Yilai-lei, ran with her mother and husband to four pharmacies to buy masks.
孙怡蕾没有留下一个口罩，而是带到车站，放在站长室，提供未戴口罩的员工使用。
Rather than leave a mask behind, Sun took it to the station and put it in the stationmaster's room for staff without masks.
孙怡蕾说，她担心万一有人没戴，站长室里面多备两个，比较安心。
'I'm worried that if someone doesn't wear them, we'll have two more in the stationmaster's room, 'she said.
肇嘉浜路站其他同事也送来了口罩，受访者供图看到同事们的行为，我心里充满了力量，有人把我们比做“最美逆行者”，但相比一线医护人员，我们只是做好自己的本职工作。
Other colleagues at Zhaojia Bang Road station also sent in masks. The interviewees showed the behavior of their colleagues. My heart was full of strength. Some people compared us to "The Most Beautiful Reverse," but we did our job better than front-line medical staff.
我是值班站长，我更心疼每天在站台、在收银台、在闸口、安检口值守的同事们，如果你问我，他们的父母会担心吗？会害怕吗？我想都会有的，但没有一个人说过，要请假，要退缩，要放弃。
I am the duty station master, I love every day in the platform, at the checkout, at the gate, security checkpoints, if you ask me, their parents will worry? Will you fear? I think there will be, but none said, to take leave, to shrink, to give up.
和我们一样，就在这个时刻，在中国的各个城市，他们，都在为守护一座城市、一个国家而奉献自己的热情，付出最大的努力。
Like us, at this very moment, in every Chinese city, they are dedicated to the protection of a city, a country to dedicate their utmost efforts.
23：01，列车运营结束，进入维保库做全面消毒工作，我稍稍松了一口气；23：45，我把今天所有的账款结掉，在同事们都下班后，又拿着酒精小喷瓶把办公区域消毒了一遍；23：55，我脱下手套，背上包，走出地铁口，似乎闻到了树叶发新芽的清香。
I took a little relief when the train finished and went into the Warehouse to have a thorough disinfection. At 23: 45 I took off all my accounts for the day and disinfected the office area with alcohol bottles after work.
我想，春天就快要来了。
Spring is coming, I suppose.
征集令“战疫”成败，匹夫有责。
Call for "epidemic" success or failure, the husband is responsible.
《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战役”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
If you are a health care worker or family member involved in the fight against pneumonia, we hope to hear your "battle" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：wxid_bf5mudid7oz322周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
2007-9-24 16: 19 [hide] www.youtheme.cn http: / / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn Monday: Wangqi microsignal: wxid _ bf5mudid7oz322 Thursday: Zhou Jie micro-signal: asyouasyou micro-signal: kbx875055141 Saturday: Wu Xue micro-signal: kbx875055141 Sunday:
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·独家 | 第一批上海援鄂医疗队领队郑军华：重症患者治疗已经积累一些经验·武汉密集建设“方舱医院”透露了什么信息？·口述实录 | 第15次，我终于敲开了这户人家的大门，鞋子都磨破了转载请在评论区留言，获得授权！转载时，须注明作者、出处和微信号。
Why don't we all go over to see the first batch of medical team leaders in Shanghai We have accumulated some experience in the treatment of severe cases.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口述实录 | 上海地铁7号线值班站长“丽姐”的一天。
Oral record & # 144; & # 44; One day at Shanghai Metro Line 7 duty station master "Lijie."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口述实录 | 上海地铁7号线值班站长“丽姐”的一天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; dictation & # 44; & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 47; & # 7; & # 7; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我是值班站长，这是我的故事";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; This is AT & quot; station master on duty; and this is my story & quot;;
title: '独家 | 第一批上海援鄂医疗队领队郑军华：重症患者治疗已经积累一些经验',。
Cheng Junhua, leader of the first Shanghai medical team, with some experience and experience in the treatment of patients with severe illness.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '武汉密集建设“方舱医院”透露了什么信息？',。
What information did Wuhan's intensive construction of the Fang Cavern Hospital reveal?
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 第15次，我终于敲开了这户人家的大门，鞋子都磨破了',。
At last, at the fifteenth time, I knocked on the door of that house and worn out its shoes.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
