恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期。
Panic is normal, when the epidemic is over, it is the high incidence of psychological problems.
于蒙 等。
Yu Meng wait.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
疫情必然会在可见的时间里消散，生活终将回到正轨，免费援助的心理咨询师们也会回到自己的岗位上。
The epidemic is bound to dissipate in the foreseeable future, life will get back on track, and free-of-charge counselors will return to their posts.
参加过汶川地震援助、深圳光明新区滑坡等突发灾害救援的隋双戈知道，当各种支持、援助慢慢地撤回，应激状态消除，一些真正的问题才会渐渐显现。
Sui Shuangge, who has participated in the earthquake relief assistance in Wenchuan and the landslides in Guangxin District of Shenzhen, knows that when various kinds of support and assistance are slowly withdrawn and the state of stress is removed, some real problems will gradually emerge.
···············❶大哭的电话大年初三，武汉的一位护士在心理援助热线里大哭。
A Crying Telephone In the Chinese New Year's Eve, a nurse in Wuhan began to cry on a psychological help line.
头一天，在她的科室，3位患者因新型冠状病毒去世，殡仪馆迟迟没有派人来接，遗体在隔离病房里停放了一整夜。
The first day, in her department, three patients died of a new coronavirus, the funeral parlour did not send to receive the body, the body lay in the isolation ward overnight.
第二天上班，她又戴上口罩，钻进隔离服，把自己封锁在这套塑料衣服里。
The next day at work, she put on a mask, crept into the quarantine, and sealed herself in the plastic suit.
太闷了，还有十来个小时的工作，隔离服外是隔离病房，那几具遗体还没有拉走，病房外已经有6位同事被感染。
Too stuffy, there are still about a dozen hours of work, the isolation ward outside the isolation ward, the bodies have not been removed, six colleagues outside the ward have been infected.
一路坚持到了中午，护士的情绪突然崩溃了，科室主任想起了心理援助，赶紧让她去求援。
All the way to noon, the nurse's mood suddenly collapsed, the section director remembered psychological assistance, quickly let her go to ask for help.
接线员很快把嚎啕的电话转给了卢林，武汉人卢林曾是三甲医院的神经科主任，在英国访学四年，现在一名心理咨询师和督导师。
The operator quickly relayed the howl to Lulin, a former neurologist at Sanjia Hospital who spent four years in the UK where he is now a counselor and supervisor.
她正在为咨询师做督导，告诉护士：我一个半小时后再打过去。
She was supervising the counselor and told the nurse I would call back in an hour and a half.
从大年初一（1月25日）开始，国内多个心理援助项目陆续上线，蓝天联盟心理援助热线、简单心理平台、“武汉社工”公众号等，公布招募信息后，有近两千名志愿者报名。
Starting from the first day of the New Year (January 25), a number of psychological assistance projects have been launched in the country. The Blue Sky League psychological help line, the simple psychological platform and the Wuhan social worker's public phone number have registered nearly 2,000 volunteers.
这些组织大多筛选出300-400名志愿者，轮流值班，用电话、公众号、微信群等途径，做免费的心理援助。
Most of these organizations screen between 300 and 400 volunteers, take turns on duty and provide free psychological assistance by telephone, public numbers, micro-groups, etc.
另有几十名资深咨询师，同时担任督导师，为一线志愿者提供心理支持。
There are also dozens of senior counsellors who also act as mentors and provide psychological support to frontline volunteers.
两位正在疫区隔离的疑似病例打来电话，他们都没有哭，只是语速飞快，说个不停。
Two suspected cases isolated in the epidemic area called, they did not cry, just speak fast, non-stop.
电话那头的情绪憋了很久，急需倾泻的出口。
The mood at the other end of the line had been pent up for a long time.
一位求助者从武汉回老家，已经自我隔离了10天，他叫的外卖当天被拦在小区外，他又饿又崩溃，只能打咨询热线求援。
A suitor who returned home from Wuhan and had been isolated for 10 days had his takeaway ordered outside his cell the same day. He was hungry and broke down and had to call a hotline for help.
一个新生儿母亲在微信群求助，她和三个月大的宝宝一起隔离，母乳喂养。
A newborn mother seeks help from a microcosm group, isolated from her three-month-old baby and breast-fed.
她有些低烧，喉咙干痛，怕万一自己染病，传染给宝宝。
She had a low fever and a sore throat, which she feared would infect her baby if she got sick.
她想把母乳换成喂奶粉，但是买不到。
She wanted to change her breast milk for milk powder, but she couldn't buy it.
自从封城开始，宝宝一直哭闹，一直睡不好。
Since the closure of the city, the baby has been crying, has been sleeping.
疫情突然爆发，人们处在急性应激状态，感到压力、崩溃、做噩梦等，甚至有的人会出现攻击行为。
Outbreaks occur suddenly, people are in an acute state of stress, stress, collapse, nightmares, and even aggression.
北京大学心理学博士李松蔚认为这是正常的，“急性应激障碍推荐的治疗就是不治疗”，要做的是心理教育，告诉人们，大部分人都会有这样的反应。
Li Song Wei, PhD in psychology at Peking University, says this is normal. "The recommended treatment for acute stress disorder is no treatment." All it takes is psychological education to tell people that most people respond in this way.
“打热线电话像贴创可贴一样”，简单心理CEO简里里说，现在的心理援助是陪伴、倾听、科普，帮助稳定化。
'Call the hotline like a bandage, 'says simple psychological CEO Jan Reary.' Psychological support today is companionship, listening, popularizing science, helping to stabilize the situation.
让来电的人可以表达和倾诉自己内在混乱的情绪，提供一些必要的信息。
Let the caller express and confide in his or her inner turmoil and provide the necessary information.
提供情绪和信息上的支持。
Provide emotional and informational support.
对于那位新生儿妈妈，广州咨询师陈跃跃（化名）没法提供医学建议，她安抚对方的情绪，别害怕，别担心，焦虑也是会发烧的，不一定真的是疫情。
For the newborn mother, Guangzhou consultant Chen Yueyue (not her real name) was unable to provide medical advice. She soothed her feelings. Don't be afraid. Don't worry.
宝宝是很敏感的小东西，大人情绪稳住了，宝宝也能安稳。
Baby is a very sensitive little thing, adults calm down, the baby can also be stable.
可以去找社区社工等帮忙，看看能不能买到婴儿奶粉。
Get help from a community social worker to see if you can buy baby milk powder.
一个半小时后，卢林又一次接通了隔离病房的护士。
An hour and a half later, Lulin was again connected to the isolation ward nurse.
护士的情绪已经恢复，电话里，她语气稳定。
The nurse's mood had returned, and her voice was steady on the phone.
卢林问，遗体运走了吗？护士说，运走了。
asked Lulin. Had the body been taken away? said the nurse.
卢林问，北京和上海还有解放军的医疗队都来武汉了，都在支援你们。
Lu Lin asked, Beijing and Shanghai are also the PLA medical team to Wuhan, are supporting you.
他们没来！护士情绪又激动了起来：他们去了一线15个医院，还没到我们二线医院。
They didn't show up! The nurse was excited again: They had gone to the first 15 hospitals, not to our second-tier hospital.
卢林赶紧又问：那你们科室人手够不够？护士答，“全院都在支持我们”——她又找到了心理支援。
Lulin asked quickly: Is your department adequately staffed? The nurse replies, "The whole hospital is supporting us" - and she finds psychological support.
挂电话之前，卢林告诉护士，他们会把医院院长加到捐赠防护服、口罩的群——这也是一种心理援助，让她知道，大家都在帮他们想办法。
Before hanging up, Lulin told the nurses that they would add the hospital director to the group donating protective clothing and masks - a form of psychological assistance to let her know that everyone was helping them find a way.
❷谁能做心理援助在微信群里，陈跃跃发现，一些心理援助很快显现出无序，并不是每个志愿者都有做危机干预的能力。
Who can do psychological assistance in the micro-letter group, Chen Yue-yue found that some psychological assistance quickly appeared disorder, not every volunteer has the ability to do crisis intervention.
有人在微信群里说自己低烧多少度，担心是感染了。
Some people in the micro-letter group to say how much lower fever, fear is infected.
有志愿者回复一条语音：“谁告诉你你感染了，你有什么证据说你感染了？”陈跃跃听完这条非常气愤：有些求助者可能还是青少年，被这样一吼，指不定会有心理创伤。
One of the volunteers responded with a voice: "Who told you you were infected, what evidence do you have that you are infected?" Chen Yue-yue heard this indignant: some of the suitors may still be teenagers and may be traumatized by such a yell.
一位咨询师说，来，我们可以做一个正念疗法。
One counselor says, Come on, we can do a mindfulness therapy.
随后转发了一连串链接，再就没了下文。
Then forward a series of links, and then no more follow.
很难讲有几个人真的点开了链接，屏幕上的大串术语让人望而生畏，咨询师哪怕自己语音发一个引导词，都会好许多。
It's hard to say how many people actually click on a link, the list of terms on the screen is daunting, and it's a lot easier for a counselor to even pronounce a leading word.
“奥司他韦”、“莲花清瘟”有些志愿者在群里语音念药物名称都磕磕巴巴，听得人更加焦虑。
"oseltamivir" and "lotus rinderpest" Some volunteers stumbled over the pronunciation of drug names in the group, causing more anxiety.
很多社工、咨询师进群，更像是新人来练手的。
Many social workers, consultants into the group, more like a newcomer to practice.
各种各样的人都进了群。
All kinds of people joined the crowd.
有基督教士在传教，有人在教写符纸烧掉混着水喝，还有人在教跳灾舞，能把灾难跳过去。
Christian teachers are preaching, someone is teaching to burn water mixed with water, others are teaching to dance, can jump disaster over.
被管理者踢出群后，他们在工作组里抱怨：我刚刚没有做什么啊，我是真的觉得这个方法是有效的。
When they were kicked out of the group, they complained in the group: I just didn't do anything. I really think this method works.
多位咨询师担心2008年汶川地震时“防火防盗防心理咨询师”的情况重演。
A number of consultants worried about Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 "fire prevention and burglar prevention counselors" situation repeated.
李松蔚参加过汶川地震的灾后援助，他讲起，2008年5月、6月的时候，许多咨询师到灾区“蹭热点”，告诉灾区的人“你们有这个（心理援助）需要但你们不知道”，然后硬把人们带出来跳舞、做心理游戏，拿着大喇叭演讲。
In May and June, 2008, many counsellors went to the disaster area and told the people in the disaster area that "you need this [psychological assistance] but you don't know," and then forced people out to dance, play psychological games and speak with loudspeakers.
大家很反感，这些人不解决现实问题，做个秀拍个照，然后就走了。
It was repugnant that these people didn't solve real problems, did a show, took a picture, and then left.
需要说明的是，这一次大规模援助跟汶川地震有一定不同。
It needs to be explained that this large-scale assistance and Wenchuan earthquake is somewhat different.
“我们的工作是有意义的，这跟汶川地震那种，咨询师主动跑到现场的情况不一样。
"Our work is meaningful, with Wenchuan earthquake kind of, the consultant volunteered to run to the scene is not the case.
这一次是被动介入，是打电话的人自己在寻求帮助”简单心理平台咨询师牛悦告诉GQ报道，在上线前，她接受了平台的统一培训，老师告诉他们，“把求助者的遭遇言语化，找人倾诉，非常重要。
Niu Yue, a consultant on a simple psychological platform, told GQ that she had received unified training on the platform before going online. "It's important to verbalize and talk to the caller," she told GQ.
”12年后，中国的心理咨询行业已远远比当年规范，但又有了新的问题——陈跃跃想起来，在入群前，她只是简单填了一个表格，写下经历和资质就报名成功了。
Twelve years later, China's psychological counseling industry is far more regulated than it used to be, but it has a new problem--Chen Yueyue remembered that before joining the group, she simply filled out a form, wrote down her experience and registered for the job.
她觉得群里或许有人拿了心理咨询师证，但没有实际经验，也有人拿的是十几年前的证。
She felt that someone in the group might have taken a counselor's certificate, but she had no practical experience.
拿证太容易了，她常在朋友圈看到考证广告，上三天课，参加一个开卷考试，就可以发个证。
It was so easy to prove it. She often saw it advertised in a circle of friends, took a three-day course, took an open-book exam and issued a certificate.
北京大学心理与认知科学学院陈仲庚临床心理中心主任钟杰副教授（中国心理学会临床心理学注册工作委员会副主任委员）提出现阶段心理援助工作中最大的困难是有“质量”的专业人员不足。
Associate Professor Jung Jie, Associate Professor of Clinical Psychology Centre, Chen Zhonggeng, School of Psychology and Cognitive Sciences, Peking University (Vice-Chairman of the Clinical Psychology Registration Committee of the Chinese Psychological Association) suggested that the biggest difficulty in psychological assistance at this stage is the shortage of "quality" professionals.
现在持有心理咨询师证书的人超过一百万，但“大部分只能算是心理学爱好者”。
More than a million people now hold a certificate as a counselor, but "most of them are just psychologists."
他在一篇文章中说，要成为一名合格的心理咨询师，需要接受包括职业伦理在内超过30门课程约1000课时的专业课程学习，在督导下与求助者一对一面询的时间不少于250小时，还要至少接受过资深同行的心理治疗（或被分析）不少于120小时。
To qualify as a counselor, he says, you need to take professional courses of about 1,000 hours in more than 30 courses, including professional ethics, spend no less than 250 hours in pairs with clients, and have at least 120 hours of psychotherapy (or analysis) from senior peers.
满足这样要求的咨询师全国大约只有几千人。
There are only a few thousand consultants in the country who meet this requirement.
热线开通第二天，卢林遇到了咨询师过分“卷入”的案例。
The hotline opened the next day, Lulin encountered a consultant's excessive "involvement" in the case.
卷入指心理咨询师过于同情求助者，或者过于把自己的经历带入咨询过程。
Involving a counselor means that the counselor is too sympathetic to the client or carries his or her experience too far into the counseling process.
热线的一通电话限时50分钟，这位咨询师和求助者竟然一直谈了好几个小时。
The hotline had a 50-minute phone call, and the counselor and suitor talked for hours.
卢林有些生气，危机干预最重要的规则是节制、中立：“你把别人挖那么深……他跟你怎么收口？咨询师问了很多对方的信息，允许对方讲太多”。
The most important rule of crisis intervention is moderation and neutrality: "You dig so deep... how does he get in with you? The counselor asks a lot of information and allows him to talk too much."
卢林觉得这个行为太不专业了，请这位志愿者退出了支援项目。
Lulin thought the move was unprofessional and asked the volunteer to quit the support program.
❸恐慌是一种正常反应心理咨询师尚登飞一度也陷入过恐慌。
Jet Panic is a normal reaction to psychological counseling Geng Dengfei also once fell into panic.
他是武汉人，上个月刚去过两次金银潭医院，他陪家属看病，没有做任何防护措施。
He was from Wuhan. He had been to the Golden and Silver Pool Hospital twice last month.
这个月，尚登飞赫然发现金银潭医院变成了新型肺炎的定点收治医院，他一度也觉得自己胸闷，怀疑已经被感染。
This month, Shang Dong-fei found out that the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital had become the designated hospital for the new type of pneumonia.
恐慌恐惧是人的基本情绪，是自我防御的基本反应。
Fear is the basic emotion, the basic reaction of self-defense.
心理咨询师董毓慧经历过2003年的非典一线救治，她发现很多普通人面对疫情，最开始是观望，进而一旦自己有任何不适，都会往症状里套，而心理性的应激反应会导致生理性的应激反应。
Dong Yuhui, a psychotherapist who experienced SARS first-line treatment in 2003, found that many ordinary people were first on the lookout for the disease, and then tended to develop symptoms if they felt any discomfort.
这次做心理援助，董毓慧反复跟自我怀疑的求助者强调，目前确诊的症状有几条：一、持续性地发烧；二、持续性地咳嗽；三、白细胞低于6000、甚至4000以下；四、要结合肺部CT诊断，有条索玻璃状阴影显示，还要结合水泻症状。
This time around, Dong Yuhui has repeatedly stressed with her self-doubting clients that there are several symptoms: 1) persistent fever; 2) persistent cough; 3) leucocyte lower than 6,000 or less than 4000; 4) pulmonary CT diagnosis, a cords glass-like shadow display, and watery diarrhea symptoms.
把这些症状告诉自我怀疑的来访者，让他们自己去排除，会让他们稍微好受一点，减少他们的心理压力。
Telling self-doubting visitors these symptoms and letting them do it themselves will make them feel a little better and reduce their psychological stress.
一线的医护显然压力更大，最近一周，尚登飞因支气管炎又一次去医院看急诊，接诊护士穿着防护服，护目镜上全是水珠，神情疲惫。
First-line care is clearly more stressful, and last week Shang Dong-fei went to the hospital again for emergency treatment because of bronchitis. The attending nurse wore protective clothing and his goggles were beaded and tired.
给病人抽血时，护士扎了好多次也抽不出血，病人抱怨，发生了口角，血最终也没抽成。
When the patient was given blood, the nurse pricked it up several times. The patient complained, had an argument, and the blood did not come out.
诊室内外，所有人都在讨论疫情。
Inside and outside the consultation room, everyone was talking about the outbreak.
尚登飞主动和护士聊天，护士说，“你看我浑身都湿透了“，又说，“武汉已经失控了，武汉已经有10%以上的人得了这个病。
"Shang Deng-fei volunteered to talk to the nurse." You see, I'm all wet, "she said." Wuhan is out of control and more than 10 percent of the people in Wuhan already have the disease.
” 数据或许来自谣传，但他能够从中感到护士的恐惧和失望。
The data may have come from hearsay, but he could sense the nurse's fear and disappointment.
恐慌也会传染，武汉封城之后，恐慌的心理急速蔓延，在腊月二十九，尚登飞去超市采购年货，发现所有人都在抢购。
Panic can also spread, Wuhan after the closure of the city, panic spread quickly, in the 29th, Shang Deng flew to the supermarket to purchase goods, found that everyone is snapping up.
一对年轻的夫妻甚至往购物车里堆了十几箱方便面。
A young couple even piled a dozen cases of instant noodles into their shopping cart.
而在一些咨询群里，一个人表达自己看不到病的焦虑，很快会引得众多群友的焦虑纷纷爆发。
In some counseling groups, the anxiety that a person can't see will soon cause the anxiety of many friends to erupt.
心理援助在此时就是必要的，钟杰告诉我们，任何人在经历应激事件时，超过20分钟，皮质醇（一种激素）就会分泌，标志着人会启动长期应对。
Psychological assistance is necessary at this point, Zhong told us that anyone experiencing a stress event will secrete cortisol (a hormone) for more than 20 minutes, marking the start of a long-term response.
事件持续越长，损害是越大的（免疫力下降、情绪波动增加）。
The longer the incident continues, the greater the damage (decreased immunity, increased mood swings).
疫情持续越长，更多的易感人群会有各种各样的身心健康问题。
The longer the epidemic continues, the more susceptible people will have a variety of physical and mental health problems.
钟杰提起德国慕尼黑在六七十年代进行的一项研究，研究证明，相对于没接受过心理治疗的人，接受过心理治疗的人，消耗的医疗资源更少、劳动力损失指标（旷课矿工等）更小、对社会的贡献更大。
He refers to a study conducted in Munich in the 1960s and 1970s, which showed that people who had received psychological care consumed fewer medical resources, had fewer labour loss indicators (absenteeism miners, etc.) and contributed more to society than those who did not.
在那之后，德国社保系统为每一位德国人支付每年200-300个小时的心理治疗费用。
After that, the German social security system pays for 200-300 hours of psychological care per year for every German.
心理援助介入的时间并没有一定之规，一些参与免费援助的咨询师认为，眼下就是最好的时机：中断不良的焦虑，才能更稳定地生活。
There is no one-size-fits-all for the duration of psychological assistance interventions, and some consultants involved in free assistance argue that this is the best time to interrupt bad anxiety in order to live more stable lives.
几天前，李松蔚应湖北卫视邀请录制一段视频，帮助处在恐慌中的人。
A few days ago, Li Song Wei was invited by Hubei Satellite TV to record a video to help people in panic.
在和编导的讨论措辞时，他提出一些不同意见，认为号召不要恐慌就是在强化恐慌。
In the language of his discussions with the editor, he offered some dissenting views, arguing that to call for not panicking was to reinforce the panic.
心理学中有“白熊效应”：如果要求人们不要想白熊，人们却一定会想到白熊。
There is a "white bear effect" in psychology: if people are asked not to think about white bears, they must think of white bears.
“有的人总觉得不能放松，形势这么紧张，所有人都应该紧张一点。
"Some people always feel like they can't relax. The situation is so tense. Everyone should be nervous.
但紧张是为了让人采取必要的行动。
But the tension is to get people to take the necessary action.
”李松蔚在视频中说：“如果能做的行动已经做了，就不要再给自己增加烦恼。
"If you can already do something, don't add to your troubles," Li said in the video.
做点开心的事，没问题。
Do something fun. No problem.
剩下的交给时间，交给科学，交给自然规律。
The rest is given to time, to science, to the laws of nature.
”❹当潮水退去后大年三十，陈跃跃接到闺蜜的电话。
"When the tide turned back about 30 years ago, Chen Yue Yue received a boudoir phone call.
闺蜜的丈夫是名医生，在当晚奔赴武汉支援医疗一线。
Her husband, a doctor, rushed to Wuhan that evening to support medical services.
闺蜜躲在机场厕所里，哭着给她打电话。
The girl hid in the airport lavatory, crying and telephoning her.
闺蜜担心丈夫感染，就算没死留下后遗症怎么办，家里两个孩子都小，自己能不能把两个孩子带好？陈跃跃听着她的哭诉，一抬头，电视里正在播春节联欢晚会，河南展厅里黄河边上的花全是由人组成的，她心想，“说好的要隔离，要远离人群的呢，现在这一堆人不是很危险吗？”“那一刻我就绷不住了”，陈跃跃安慰完闺蜜，挂掉电话，坐在电视前大哭了起来。
Chen Yue-yue listened to her cry and said that the Spring Festival Gala was on TV, and the flowers on the side of the Yellow River were all made up of people.
疫情越来越严重，此刻一家人滞留上海，回不到熟悉的城市。
As the outbreak got worse, the family was stranded in Shanghai, unable to return to a familiar city.
一旁的母亲和外婆也哭起来，陈跃跃心里知道，此时的大哭是好事，她就放任大家一起哭。
The side of the mother and grandmother also cried, Chen Yue Yue heart knows that this time crying is a good thing, she let everyone cry together.
三个人一起哭了半小时，外婆突然说了一句：你不是做心理咨询的吗？你看看有没有事情可以帮忙。
Three people cried together for half an hour, grandmother suddenly said: You do not do psychological counseling? You see if there is anything to help.
她很快报名做志愿者。
She signed up as a volunteer soon.
她有过2015年尼泊尔震后援助经历，做灾后支援让她感到安定。
She had a post-earthquake experience in Nepal in 2015 and was reassured by post-disaster support.
这次肺炎疫情中，许多媒体记者也和咨询师一样，从休假状态火速转移到工作状态，联系采访对象，对接需求，或者在网上不断转发最新的报道。
In the pneumonia epidemic, many media reporters, like consultants, quickly moved from vacation to work, contacting people, docking requests, or forwarding the latest stories online.
应激干预专家隋双戈在采访中说，这是一种自我效能感，发现自己还很有用，能帮助到别人，本身就是降低焦虑、处理创伤的方式。
It's a sense of self-efficacy, and finding yourself useful in helping others is itself a way to reduce anxiety and deal with trauma, stress intervention expert Sui Shuanggo said in an interview.
隋双戈、卢林等资深心理咨询师，他们还有一项任务，是预备处理一线咨询师的心理危机。
Sui Shuangge, Lulin and other senior counselors, they also have the task of preparing to deal with the psychological crisis of front-line counselors.
咨询师黄玉飞在接了三个电话后，主动下线，她感到心情沉重，需要回到日常生活中。
Consultant Huang Yu Feifei took three calls, took the initiative off the line, she felt heavy, need to return to daily life.
简单心理平台在心理援助项目培训时告诉志愿者，不建议一天接超过5个电话，不建议连续两天上线。
Simple Psychological Platform told volunteers in psychological assistance program training, do not recommend to take more than five phone calls a day, not two consecutive days on line.
更多的咨询师还没遇到这种问题，1月28日，牛悦有4-5个小时都在热线上，但只接到了两个咨询，其中一个还跟疫情没有任何关系。
More counsellors had not yet experienced such problems, and Niu Yue spent four to five hours on the hotline on January 28, but received only two enquiries, one of which had nothing to do with the outbreak.
跟充足的咨询师储备相比，求助者的数量不成比例。
There is a disproportionate number of sufferers compared to an adequate pool of consultants.
在蓝天联盟心理援助热线已有的求助中，卢林粗略统计，医护人员来电不超过5%。
In Blue Sky Alliance psychological help line has been the help line, Lulin rough statistics, no more than 5% of the calls.
她联系医生朋友，提出要进驻医院帮他们做心理援助。
She contacted doctors and friends and offered to come to the hospital to help them with psychological assistance.
朋友们都拒绝了，一则没有时间，二则他们担心咨询师志愿者被感染。
For one thing, there was no time. For another, they were worried that the counselor volunteer might be infected.
1月27日，映心堂咨询师于玲娜组织了第一次网络团体心理支持活动。
On January 27, Yingxintang counselor Yu Linna organized the first online group psychological support activities.
她在豆瓣、微信公众号、微信朋友圈等网络平台上发布援助信息，招募了50位咨询师志愿者，陆续有四五十人加入了求助的微信群。
She posted information about her assistance on Web platforms such as Couppee, Micromail Public, Micromail Friends Circle, and recruited 50 volunteer counsellors, with 40 or 50 others joining the help line.
下午2点，活动开始，视频会议室打开，于玲娜发现，真正通过群里的链接点过来的人，只有个位数。
At 2 p. m., when the video conference room opened, Yu found that the number of people who really came through the link points in the group was only a few digits.
一些头像进来不久没说话就走了，还有几个一直保持沉默，没有任何一位求助者打开摄像头。
Some heads came in and left without saying anything. Several others remained silent. None of the supplicants turned on the camera.
两个小时结束，于玲娜帮助了两位求助者，但显然，大部分求助者仍然在观望中。
Two hours later, Yu helped the two suitors, but apparently most of the suitors were still on the sidelines.
在不出声的求助者背后，还有一个看不见的庞大问题。
Behind the silent supplicant, there is a huge and invisible problem.
无论蓝天联盟心理援助热线、简单心理平台、“武汉社工”公众号，所有的援助信息都是在网络发布，信息的接受者显而易见——他们是有心理学认知的，受过教育的、熟练使用社交网络的群体。
Whether the Blue Sky Alliance psychological help line, the simple psychological platform, and the Wuhan social worker's public number, all the information is posted online, and the recipients are clearly psychologically aware, educated, and adept at using social networks.
但就像“湖北不只有武汉”一样， 在城市之外的更广袤地区，于玲娜提醒我们，还有大量的特殊群体——贫困人口、残疾人、独居老人、独居儿童，他们的日常生活一定是相当艰难的。
But just as "Hubei is not just Wuhan," beyond the city, Yu reminds us that there are still a large number of special groups - the poor, the disabled, the elderly living alone, and children living alone - whose daily lives must be rather difficult.
“如果在大城市，也许还有人会看到他们，关心他们。
"If they were in a big city, maybe people would see them and care about them.
如果在农村里，周围都是熟人，也能得到一定帮助。
If you are in the country and you are surrounded by acquaintances, you can get some help.
但如果这些人在不上不下的小县城呢？”疫情必然会在可见的时间里消散，生活终将回到正轨，免费援助的心理咨询师们也会回到自己的岗位上。
But what if these people are in a small county? "The epidemic is bound to dissipate in the foreseeable future, life will get back on track, and free counselors will return to their posts.
参加过汶川地震援助、深圳光明新区滑坡等突发灾害救援的隋双戈知道，当各种支持、援助慢慢地撤回，应激状态消除，一些其他问题才会渐渐显现。
Sui Shuangge, who has participated in the earthquake relief assistance in Wenchuan and the landslides in Guangxin District of Shenzhen, knows that some other problems will emerge only gradually when various kinds of support and assistance are slowly withdrawn and the state of stress is removed.
例如对疫情的不断回想，对人群密集的地方恐惧等等。
Examples are the constant recollection of an epidemic, the fear of a crowded place, and so on.
“那可能才是心理问题的真正高峰期。
"That may be the real peak for psychological problems.
”隋双戈说。
"said Sui Shuangge.
在此，我们希望正在经历疫情的人们，能够积极关注自身可能出现的心理问题，并及时进行自我调节或寻求专业帮助，以健康的身心状态面对未来的生活，与此同时，也希望心理咨询机构能够关注疫区民众的后续心理状况。
Here, we hope that people who are experiencing the epidemic will be able to pay active attention to their own psychological problems and seek timely self-regulation or professional help to face their future life in a healthy state of mind and body. At the same time, it is hoped that the psychological counseling institutions will pay attention to the psychological condition of the people in the affected areas.
今日推送次条，对面对疫情压力时的心理问题，提供了具体的应对建议，详细内容，请移步次条查看。
Push the next article today, to face the epidemic stress of the psychological problems, to provide specific proposals, detailed content, please step by step to see.
GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that contribute to the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, please contact us at any time! Whether you are a health care worker, patient and family member, suspected patient, material supplier, transporter, volunteer, epidemic area service personnel, professional with knowledge of epidemic situation.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：于蒙、刘敏、张炜铖、戴敏洁编辑：刘敏、于蒙运营编辑：肖呱呱。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! In the public backstage reply to eggs, send you a color egg interview, writing: Yu Min, Liu Min, Zhang Weoseng, Dai Minjie Editor: Liu Min, Yu Meng Operations Editor: Xiao Quack.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期。
Panic is normal, when the epidemic is over, it is the high incidence of psychological problems.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; when the epidemic ended.
var msg_desc = "现阶段的心理援助像“贴创可贴”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the current stage, psychological assistance is like "sticking with a wound."
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动',。
People invisible in the crisis: AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '孝感前线医生：武汉更难，我们下面不好意思提要求',。
Doctor: Wuhan is even harder to find. We are sorry to ask & apos; s name at the bottom.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '我家离华南海鲜市场很近：返乡、封城、过年，一位武汉大学生的过去一周',。
My home is near South China's seafood market: home, town, New Year's Eve, and a Wuhan college student's last week or so.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
