口述实录｜我就是那个“疑似”。
oral record: I am the suspect.
余毅；王仲昀。
Yu Yi; Wang Zhongyun.
新民周刊                      。
Xinmin Weekly.
新民周刊。
Xinmin Weekly.
深度和角度——这就是我们能做的。
Depth and angle - that's what we can do.
。
.
现在武汉那些专门的传染病医院，床位紧张，还有不少人拿着被子铺盖在医院输液，等待入院。
Wuhan now those specialized hospitals for infectious diseases, beds are tight, and many people with quilts covered in hospital infusion, waiting to be hospitalized.
我去复查时也看到有类似“一床难求”的情况。
When I went to check up, I also saw a similar "one bed difficult" situation.
我还算是不幸中的万幸吧，自己吃药加上在家隔离就恢复了。
I'm lucky in my misfortune. I took my own medicine and isolated myself at home.
口述 | 余　毅（化名）整理 | 王仲昀我叫余毅，今年34岁，老家湖北黄冈，现在是武汉的一名装修工人。
Yu Zhongyun Wang, 34 years old, from Huanggang, Hubei Province, and now a decorator in Wuhan.
此次新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，我觉得自己是一名轻症患者。
After the outbreak of the new crown pneumonia, I felt like a mild case.
不过，由于我在医院检查时人满为患，当时检测手段又没到位，我自始至终没有成为确诊病例，即使我出现了一系列典型症状。
However, because I was overcrowded at the time of the hospital check-up and the tests were not in place, I never became a confirmed case, even though I developed a series of typical symptoms.
感　染过年前我很忙，1月20日前都在干活。
I was very busy before the New Year. I worked until January 20th.
一直忙到1月20日，我开始在家休息。
I was busy until January 20th, when I began to rest at home.
1月22日上午，因为工作上的事情，我出门坐公交从武昌到汉阳办事。
January 22 morning, because of work, I went out to take the bus from Wuchang to Hanyang to do business.
这趟路途比较远，我中间一共转了三次车。
It was a long trip, and I had three trips in between.
其实前两天，我和身边的人也看到了媒体上关于此次疫情的新闻，但我个人抱有侥幸心理，总觉得这个病毒离自己还很远。
In fact, two days ago, I and the people around me also saw the news about the epidemic in the media, but I personally take comfort that the virus is still far from their own.
当时很多人都已经知道这个事情，但我当天出门，路上的人还是有一半没戴口罩。
A lot of people already knew about this, but I went out that day and half the people on the road were still not wearing masks.
很多人估计跟我有一样的心态，也有可能是当时口罩确实很难买到了。
A lot of people think I have the same mentality, may be that the mask is really hard to buy at that time.
22日办完事情回家后，本来我跟往年一样要回黄冈老家过年，但第二天（23日）武汉就封城了，我就再也没出门。
On the 22nd, when I returned home from business, I would have returned to my hometown of Huanggang for the Spring Festival, but the next day (23rd) Wuhan closed the city, I never left home.
所以后来自己出现患病症状，就觉得应该是那天出门被感染上的。
So later on his illness symptoms, I think it should be the day out on the infected.
检　查1月24日除夕夜，我和老婆还有两个孩子在家吃完年夜饭后，我身体就开始不舒服。
On New Year's Eve, Jan. 24, my wife and I had two children at home after dinner, and I began to feel sick.
具体表现为发烧、头疼、浑身无力，当时测出来发烧到37.8度。
Specific performance is feverish, headache, limp all over, at that time detected fever to 37.8 degrees.
25日吃了消炎药状态又变得正常，我就以为是普通的感冒发热，还没往新冠肺炎去想。
25 took the state of anti-inflammatory drugs became normal again, I thought it was a common cold fever, not to think of the new crown pneumonia.
但是到26日，我感到症状越来越严重，必须要去医院了。
But by the 26th, I felt more and more serious and had to go to the hospital.
于是，27日一早我就去了家附近的社区医院拍了片子，显示“左肺下叶多发片状磨玻璃密度增高影”，诊断是“左肺下叶多发感染”。
Thus, I went to the community hospital near my home early on the 27th to take a picture, showing "the increasing density of multi-slice grinding glass in the lower lobe of the left lung," the diagnosis being "multiple infections of the lower lobe of the left lung."
当时，我能感觉到医院里的人很怕我，让我取报告的时候离他们远一点。
At the time, I could feel that people in the hospital were afraid of me and asked me to stay away from them when I got the report.
我觉得我可能是感染了，但我也很理解他们，医生护士才是最辛苦的人。
I think I might be infected, but I also understand that doctors and nurses are the hardest working people.
当天，社区医院建议我立即转去大医院，我就转诊去了华中科大同济医学院附属同济医院的光谷院区，这也是离我比较近的大医院。
On that day, the community hospital advised me to immediately transfer to the big hospital, I referred to the Tongji Hospital of Tongji Medical School, Huazhong University, which is also a big hospital close to me.
那天上午在龙城社区医院，就有三个症状和我差不多的人，后来我们都去了同济医院（光谷院区）。
That morning at Longcheng Community Hospital, there were three people with the same symptoms as me, and later we all went to Tongji Hospital.
余毅在社区医院的CT检查报告单我到了同济医院（光谷院区）的发热门诊后，最直观的感受是人很多，很多是和自己状况差不多的。
Yu Yi in the community hospital CT examination report card I went to Tongji Hospital (Guanggu courtyard area) after the fever clinic, the most intuitive feeling is that many people, many are similar to their own situation.
门诊医生看了之前社区医院的报告后跟我说，你的症状较轻，回家按时吃药，然后自我隔离就行。
The outpatient doctor read the report from the previous community hospital and told me that your symptoms were mild. Go home and take your medicine regularly and isolate yourself.
我在那里没有做检查，包括后来去复诊时也没有检查，所以自始至终我没有被确诊。
I did not have an examination there, including later on, so I was not diagnosed at all times.
但从我的症状，到初步检查结果，再到后来同济医院医生给的治疗方案，这些让我觉得我就是感染了新冠肺炎，只是症状比较轻。
But from my symptoms, to the initial results, to the treatment given by the Tongzi Hospital doctor, I felt like I was infected with Newcomial Pneumonia, although the symptoms were mild.
出现症状，但最后没有被确诊的绝对不止我一个。
I'm not alone in showing symptoms, but I'm not the only one who ended up undiagnosed.
当时我在同济医院（光谷院区）看到，医院里有很多比我岁数大而且病情更重的人，有些甚至咳得路都走不好了。
I was at Tongji Hospital (Gwanggu District) and saw that there were many older and more seriously ill people in the hospital, some of whom coughed up badly.
这些人也没有床位，他们就坐在走廊里，让医生打针。
The men also had no beds, so they sat in the hallway and asked the doctor to give them an injection.
个人认为，这跟当时核酸检测条件没有跟上有关，现在有没有跟上我也不清楚。
Personally, this was related to the failure of nucleic acid testing conditions at the time, and it is not clear whether they are now with me.
另外我还想说，由于没能被确诊，我看病买药的钱都得自费。
I would also like to say that, since I was not diagnosed, I had to pay my own way for medicine.
买一次药大概花了300元左右，两次就是600元，加上其他检查一共将近1000。
It costs about 300 yuan to buy one pill, 600 yuan twice, and nearly 1000 yuan for other tests.
当然我明白，在这种事情面前，生命肯定是最重要的。
Of course I know that in the face of such things, life is definitely the most important.
不管药多贵，我还是得买。
No matter how expensive the medicine is, I must buy it.
隔　离27日从同济医院回家后，我就把自己隔离了。
After coming home from Tongji Hospital on the 27th, I isolated myself.
另外，按照医嘱，我每天按时吃药，一共有四种。
In addition, according to the doctor's advice, I take medicine regularly every day, a total of four.
这样持续几天后，我能感觉到自己在慢慢恢复，症状也不断缓解，到30日已经基本正常。
After a few days of this, I could feel my recovery slowly and my symptoms would subside. By the 30th it was almost normal.
30日那天，我去同济医院（光谷院区）复查，但人还是很多，医生依旧没有给我检查。
On the 30th, I went to Tongji Hospital (Gwanggu District) to check up, but there were still many people, the doctor still did not give me a check-up.
医生开了同样的药，让我回家继续隔离，直到满14天后再看。
The doctor prescribed the same medicine and told me to go home and remain in isolation until the end of 14 days.
余毅目前服用的药物我现在和老婆孩子在武汉三环南边龙城路租房住，这边平时人流量就比较大。
Yu Yi currently take medicine I now and his wife and children in Wuhan three rings south of Longcheng Road rental housing, this side of the normal flow of people is larger.
疫情发生后，我们家的基本生活还是有保障的。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, our family's basic livelihood is still guaranteed.
附近有一个两层楼的连锁超市，过年期间家人曾经去那里购物，回来说超市里蔬菜鸡蛋都是畅销品，卖得非常快，价格也比平时略高。
A nearby two-storey supermarket chain, where family members had been shopping during the Lunar New Year, returned that vegetables and eggs were best selling items in the supermarket, selling very fast and at slightly higher prices than usual.
我目前精神状态比较乐观，随着症状慢慢改善，生活也逐渐正常。
My current mental state is optimistic, as the symptoms slowly improve, life is gradually normal.
就是工作受到影响，本来正常正月十五以后开工，现在就不清楚了。
Is affected by the work, would have been normal after the fifteenth day of the first month, it is not clear.
在家隔离这段时间，我一个人待在房间里不出来，跟家人的交流就全靠手机，或者有时候在房间里大声地喊几句他们也能听到。
During this time of isolation, I stayed in my room alone, talking to my family on my cell phone, or sometimes shouting loudly in the room and they could hear me.
吃饭就让老婆把饭放在房门口。
Let the wife put the meal in front of the house.
我家里有两个孩子，一个10岁，一个7岁。
I have two children in my family, aged 10 and 7.
大娃大概明白我的情况，还用手机笑着对我说：“爸爸被隔离了。
Big baby probably understand my situation, but also with a mobile phone smile said to me: "Dad is isolated.
”我很想出去在生活上帮帮他们，不过没办法。
"I wanted to go out and help them, but there was nothing I could do.
后来我明白，保护好自己，自我主动隔离，就是对他人最好的保护。
Later I learned that protecting myself and being self-isolated is the best protection for others.
好在家人目前都一切正常，没被感染。
Fortunately, the family is now all right, not infected.
余毅拍摄的武汉杨泗港长江大桥现在武汉那些专门的传染病医院，床位紧张，还有不少人拿着被子铺盖在医院输液，等待入院。
Yu Yi shot of Wuhan Yangrabaya Bridge Yangtze River, Wuhan now those specialized hospitals for infectious diseases, beds tight, many people with quilts covered in hospital infusion, waiting to be hospitalized.
我去复查时也看到有类似“一床难求”的情况。
When I went to check up, I also saw a similar "one bed difficult" situation.
我还算是不幸中的万幸吧，自己吃药加上在家隔离就恢复了。
I'm lucky in my misfortune. I took my own medicine and isolated myself at home.
最后，我期待着武汉及全国各地疫情早日结束，大家的生活尽快回归正常。
Finally, I look forward to Wuhan and all parts of the country to end the epidemic as soon as possible, everyone's life back to normal.
征集令《新民周刊》现面向全国征集新冠肺炎采访对象和真实故事：如果你是参与抗击新冠肺炎疫情的医护人员或其家属，我们希望聆听你的“战疫”故事，也希望传达你的诉求。
Call for orders The New People's Weekly is now soliciting interviews and true stories from all over the country: If you are a healthcare worker or family member involved in the fight against the outbreak, we hope to hear your "epidemic" story and convey your message.
如果你是确诊、疑似患者本人或家属，我们希望了解你和家人如何“抗疫”的过程，让外界了解你的真实经历。
If you are a confirmed, suspected patient or family member, we would like to know how you and your family have responded to the epidemic and let the outside world know about your true experience.
如果你是疫情严重地区的普通市民，我们希望展现你的乐观，并倾听你所需的帮助。
If you are an ordinary citizen of a highly affected area, we hope to show your optimism and listen to the help you need.
如果你是公共服务人员或各类捐助者，我们希望看到你的“最美逆行”，记录下你的无私。
If you are a public service provider or a variety of donors, we want to see your "most beautiful retrograde" and record your selflessness.
……抗击新冠肺炎疫情，我们诚征对疫情了解的社会各界人士，提供相关线索，说出你的故事，让我们用新闻留存这一切。
To fight the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we sincerely invite all sectors of the community to understand the epidemic, provide relevant clues, tell your story, let us use the news to retain all this.
《新民周刊》新冠肺炎线索征集值班编辑联系方式（添加时请简要自我介绍）：周一：应　琛　微信号：paulineying0127周二：金　姬　微信号：gepetta周三：黄　祺　微信号：wxid_bf5mudid7oz322周四：周　洁　微信号：asyouasyou周五：孔冰欣　微信号：kbx875055141周六：吴　雪　微信号：shyshine1105周日：姜浩峰　微信号：jianggeladandong新闻是历史的底稿，你们是历史的见证者。
2007-9-24 16: 19 [hide] www.youtheme.cn http: / / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cn Monday: Wangqi microsignal: wxid _ bf5mudid7oz322 Thursday: Zhou Jie micro-signal: asyouasyou micro-signal: kbx875055141 Saturday: Wu Xue micro-signal: kbx875055141 Sunday:
期待你的故事、你的线索！▼大家还都在看这些▼·独家 | 小汤山ICU主任熊利泽：火神山和雷神山将能起到“特种部队”作用·火线｜从集贸市场、公厕、公租房到办公场所……上海市民感受到疫情防控新变化·口述实录 | 回到武汉，我接到了阿坝州和重庆公安的电话转载请在评论区留言，获得授权！转载时，须注明作者、出处和微信号。
Why don't you Why don't you Why don't you Why don't you Why don't we go over there = Why don't you come over there = Why don't you go over there = Why don't you go over there
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口述实录｜我就是那个“疑似”。
oral record: I am the suspect.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "新民周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口述实录｜我就是那个“疑似”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; oral information, I was with & quot; suspected & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "我期待着武汉及全国各地疫情早日结束，大家的生活尽快回归正常。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I look forward to an early end to the epidemic in Wuhan and around the country, and a return to normal life as soon as possible.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '独家 | 小汤山ICU主任熊利泽：火神山和雷神山将能起到“特种部队”作用',。
Xiong Lize, director of ICU at Little Townhill: Mountain Fire and Mt. Lui will serve as a special forces service.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '火线｜从集贸市场、公厕、公租房到办公场所……上海市民感受到疫情防控新变化',。
Yesterday's event was less than a year ago, and the company has been less than a year old.
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
title: '口述实录 | 回到武汉，我接到了阿坝州和重庆公安的电话',。
Back at Wuhan, I received a call from Aba State and Chongqing police at & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '新民周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;.
var title ="新民周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
