武汉一线 | 自己的城，自己守护。
Wuhan Rail & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
唐云路。
Tang Yun Road.
人间像素                      。
Human pixels.
人间像素。
Human pixels.
我要采访一百种人间故事。
I'm going to interview a hundred stories.
。
.
武汉封城已经是第十天。
Wuhan is the tenth day of the city.
市民闭门不出，看上去，只要网络还通，手机还有电，大部分人的生活就能继续。
With citizens shut down, it seems, most people's lives will continue as long as the internet is still open and cell phones and electricity are available.
在移动互联网服务的背后，是一个个活生生的人穿梭在城市中，坚守各自的岗位，穿梭在城市中，尽量维持武汉人民生活正常运转。
Behind the mobile Internet services, is a live person shuttling through the city, adhere to their respective posts, shuttle in the city, trying to maintain the normal functioning of Wuhan people's lives.
过年期间本就人力紧缺，加上离开武汉返乡的员工一时间无法返回，许多原本计划休假的人，在这个有些沉寂的城市，度过了最繁忙的春节。
Due to the shortage of manpower during the Lunar New Year and the inability of staff returning from Wuhan to return home for a while, many people who had planned to take their holidays spent the busiest Spring Festival in the quiet city.
他们有的将妻儿托付给月嫂，只能从视频里看刚出生的孩子一天一个样；有的身兼多职，抽空窝在车里睡一会儿；因为工作所在地点附近封路，保障市民吃上蔬菜的他们，连着一个多星期都没吃上新鲜蔬菜。
Some of them entrust their wives and children to their wives and children, and can only watch their new-born children grow up every day; some are multiple-hatted and spend some time sleeping in their cars; and they have not eaten fresh vegetables for more than a week because they have blocked roads near their workplaces to ensure that citizens can eat vegetables.
其中的一位告诉我，这其实没什么大道理好讲，紧要关头，无非是各人做好自己的本职工作。
One of them told me that there was no great reason to tell, and that when it came to the crunch, it was all about doing your job.
因为，这是自己的城市，要自己守护。
Because, this is their own city, to protect their own.
没有大家哪有小家我叫徐林林，在美团买菜武汉大仓负责运输服务中心。
No one has a small home I called Xu Linlin, in the U. S. Mission to buy vegetables Wuhan Dacang in charge of transport service center.
运输服务中心的工作就是将仓内的货物、蔬菜、水果、冻品运输到市区的一个个门店，我主要是做车辆调度、司机管理。
The work of the transport service center is to transport the goods, vegetables, fruits and frozen goods in the warehouse to the stores in the city.
武汉的美团买菜是预售制，用户前一天晚上在 App 下单，我们晚上分拣好，配送到门店，第二天用户直接在社区门口的门店自提。
Wuhan American Group is a pre-sale system, users ordered the night before at App, we pick it up at night, distribution to the store, the next day users directly at the community door to pick up.
我本来是准备春节期间回老家。
I was going back to my hometown during Spring Festival.
因为市民疯抢蔬菜，订单量一下子增大，我跟家里人商量，今年暂时不回去了，先把这一关过去再说。
Because the citizens frantically rob vegetables, orders suddenly increased, I discussed with my family, not to go back this year, first put this over.
家人还比较理解、支持的。
Family members also understand and support.
我除夕当晚就跟司机一块去配送了。
I went with the driver on New Year's Eve.
到了年初二，大仓这边人手比较紧张，我就决定回大仓这边。
To the second day of the new year, big warehouse side of the hand is more nervous, I decided to return to the warehouse side.
回去的路上，所有的路都封了，我找了四五条小路都不能走。
On my way back, all the roads were blocked, and I found four or five paths that I could not take.
最后找了一条小路，前面那个司机也是去蔡甸（大仓所在区域），我就跟着他开，结果先是陷到泥里出不来，后来轮胎又爆了，折腾了很久才赶到大仓。
Finally, I found a path, and the driver in front of me was going to Cai Dian, so I followed him, only to be stuck in the mud, and then the tires burst and it took me a long time to get to the warehouse.
△徐林林用自拍记录下这段「囧途」兄弟们都非常辛苦，现在二十多人干着原来四十个人的活儿。
Xu Lin Lin recorded with self-photography this "troubled journey" brothers are very hard, now more than 20 people are doing the original work of 40 people.
估计到封城解除之前，都得是这种状态，保障武汉市民能吃上蔬菜。
It is expected that by the end of the city, all have to be in this state, Wuhan people can eat vegetables.
仓里没有食堂，特殊时期，我们之前准备了一些饺子、泡面、火腿肠一类的干粮，大概吃了一个星期干粮。
Cang Li no canteen, special period, we had prepared some dumplings, noodles, ham sausage and other dry grains, about a week of dry food.
蔬菜确实是很久没吃了。
Vegetables haven't been eaten for a long time.
现在我们基本上是 24 小时都在这边，我们准备了被子，就在仓里呆着。
Now we're basically here 24 hours a day. We've prepared quilts and stayed in the barn.
要协助仓里做分拣、加工，还有公司口罩、消毒水一类的行政物资配送，也是我们负责。
To help Cang Li do sorting, processing, as well as the company masks, disinfectant and other administrative materials distribution, we are also responsible.
我在武汉读的大学，毕业以后一直在武汉工作。
I studied in Wuhan University, after graduation has been working in Wuhan.
算起来一共在武汉待了 12 年。
Altogether, I stayed in Wuhan for 12 years.
现在也在武汉安了一个小家。
Now I have also installed a small home in Wuhan.
我和妻子是去年中秋节结的婚，本来这个年是婚后第一个春节，是要带她回老家，见见亲戚朋友的。
My wife and I were married last year at Mid-Autumn Festival. It was the first Spring Festival since we were married.
媳妇挺支持我的，为了让我放心，她就回了武昌娘家，在那边呆着。
Daughter-in-law was very supportive of me. To reassure me, she went back to her mother's house in Wuchang and stayed there.
我昨晚还在跟她说，今年没时间陪你了。
I was telling her last night that I didn't have time to be with you this year.
她就给我发短信，说，没有大家哪有小家。
She sent me a text message saying that no one had a family.
我可以帮助一下这个城市我叫刘小国，武汉本地人，我的爷爷、父亲也都是武汉人，家住汉口硚口区。
I can help this city My name is Liu Xiaoxiang, Wuhan native, my grandfather, father are also Wuhan people, living in Hankow mouth area.
我们武汉人说白了就是有点脾气不好，但是真的很大方的，该做什么事情，绝对不含糊。
We Wuhan people said that is a bit bad-tempered, but really very generous, should do something, absolutely unambiguous.
我和朋友合伙开了一家新能源公司。
My friend and I have teamed up to start a new energy company.
1 月 26 号我跟朋友聊天，他跟我说美团现在需要人去做义工服务，免费送餐给医护人员，问我想不想去，我就让他帮我报个名，我愿意去。
On January 26th, I was talking to a friend. He told me that the American Mission now needed someone to volunteer, to give free meals to medical staff, to ask if I wanted to go, and I asked him to give me a name.
第二天早上八点多钟，一个姓胡的美团的人就给我打电话了，他确认了，我就可以上岗了。
The next morning at more than eight o'clock, a member of the American group named Hu called me and he confirmed that I was ready to go.
现在我一般 9 点开车出门，然后开到香他她餐厅的一个门店，他们是义务给医护人员免费提供餐食的，我到店里能帮忙的也给他们帮下忙，然后就取餐，11 点半到 12 点之间送到医院。
Now I usually drive out at 9 and drive to a restaurant in her restaurant, where they serve free meals on a volunteer basis. What I can do to help them is to pick them up and take them to the hospital between 11: 30 and 12.
美团有专门的包装箱，到了医院，我把包装箱卸到推车上，他们（医生）在一个专门的地方把餐取出来，我把包装箱取回来消一遍毒，再放回车里。
When I got to the hospital, I unloaded the boxes onto the trolley, they took the food out at a special place, and I took the packing cases to remove the poison and put them back in the car.
今天下午有一批送给医院的水果，我就多跑了一趟。
There was a shipment of fruit for the hospital this afternoon, so I made an extra trip.
前几天都是一天两趟。
Twice a day the other day.
送完之后，给装餐食的包消一遍毒，我再回去。
After the meal is finished, I will remove the poison from the packet and go back.
下午三四点钟，我再去跑一趟，把晚餐送了。
At three or four o'clock in the afternoon, I went again, and gave dinner away.
刚刚送完汉阳中医院。
Hanyang Chinese Hospital just finished.
我今天跑的是三个医院，两个汉阳的医院，一个汉口的医院，加起来一天跑两百公里吧，跑一趟是三四百份，中餐晚餐都必须要给他们送到位，加一起是七八百份。
Today I was running three hospitals, two hospitals in Hanyang, one in Hankou, two hundred kilometers a day, three or four hundred, Chinese dinner must be delivered to them, plus seven or eight hundred.
△快驴司机刘小国我要感谢美团，给我提供了机会，也算是帮助了一下这个城市。
"Fast donkey driver" Liu I would like to thank the U. S. Mission to provide me with the opportunity to help the city.
我很多朋友知道我在做这个（给医护人员做后勤），也都想加入进来。
A lot of my friends know I'm doing this and I want to be part of it.
我住的那个地方就在华南海鲜市场的后面，本来计划是去杭州玩几天，再去广州亲戚家过年，但是不是去不了了嘛，今年过年活动范围就在小区里了。
The place I live in is just behind the South China Seafood Market. I was planning to visit Hangzhou for a few days and then go to Guangzhou for the New Year.
在封城之前，我们全家聚在一起吃了年夜饭，之后我老婆去照看孩子，我住在这边，就全靠手机、视频联系了。
Before the city was closed, my family got together for New Year's Eve dinner, and then my wife took care of the kids.
我老婆比较担心，一天要给我打三个电话，就说要注意安全。
My wife is more worried, to call me three times a day, said attention to safety.
我说没什么，别听那些制造的恐慌，真没那个必要。
I said nothing. Don't listen to the panic. It's not necessary.
你别看我这个年纪，我还是可以踢足球的。
Don't look my age, I can still play football.
我们有一个团体，大概一个月要组织到汉阳体育馆那边踢一场球。
We have a team that will play a game at the Hanyang Stadium about once a month.
上一次踢还是 12 月的时候。
The last time I played was in December.
疫情结束之后，除了工作上的安排，我想看看能不能组织一次踢球吧。
After the outbreak, in addition to working arrangements, I would like to see if I can organize a kick-off.
两个月没踢了，希望 2 月份能踢上吧。
I haven't played in two months. I hope I can play in February.
孩子出生一周，我搬去了仓库我叫亓亚洲，是美团买菜生鲜加工中心区域主管。
A week after the baby was born, I moved to a warehouse. My name was Qi Asia, and I was the regional director of American Troupe Shop Fresh Processing Center.
我和妻子是高中同学，两年前结婚了。
My wife and I, high school classmates, got married two years ago.
老婆今年生孩子，本来我计划孩子出生后休一个月。
My wife had a baby this year, and I was planning to take a month off after it was born.
我们公司有 15 天陪产假，算上春节假期和年假，我有一个月的时间陪她。
Our company has 15 days of paternity leave, including Spring Festival and annual leave, and I have a month to spend with her.
我请了一个月嫂，准备和月嫂一起照顾月子。
I hired a month sister-in-law, ready to take care of the month with his wife.
1 月 5 号孩子出生，1 月 9 日北京来了两个同事支援这边，我回了趟公司，帮着做过年前的一个交接。
January 5th, the birth of a child, January 9, Beijing to support two colleagues here, I returned to the company, to help make a transition before the New Year.
后来考虑武汉的紧急情况，我们商量再三，决定停止休陪产假，回来工作。
Later, considering the Wuhan emergency, we discussed again and again, decided to stop taking paternity leave, back to work.
蔡甸这边离家比较远，通勤不方便，我就住在加工中心附近。
Cai Dian is far away from home, commuting is not convenient, I live near the processing center.
后来疫情紧张，我就更不能回家了，不能让家人冒风险。
After the outbreak of tension, I can not go home, can not let the family take risks.
每天从视频里见到老婆和孩子，家里拜托月嫂照顾。
Every day from the video to see his wife and children, home please Sister-in-law care.
我家在汉口那边，听说那边疫情比较严重，很多的菜市场、超市都关门了，也担心家里的吃饭问题。
My home in Hankou side, heard that there is a serious epidemic there, many Halles market, supermarkets are closed, but also worried about food at home.
1 月以来应该是我加入这个项目以来，工作量最大的一段时间。
January should have been the most time since I joined the project.
△生鲜加工中心原本很多员工都住在附近，有的小区会有不让人出入的要求，所以来公司的员工就变少了。
The processing center???????????????????? many employees lived nearby.
另一方面，各个社区市场关闭以后，我们平台的线上订单量非常大，我们加工中心的任务量激增，每天都带着员工在现场满负荷的工作。
On the other hand, after the closure of the community markets, our platform's on-line order volume is very large, our processing center's workload has surged, every day with the staff in the scene full of work.
主要工作就是加工蔬菜、水果。
The main work is processing vegetables and fruits.
封城之后这附近的餐饮店都关门了，周边主要路段和村庄也封路了，我们附近两个大型超市还在正常营业，只能准备一些干粮，给员工备着。
After the closure of the city, the restaurants nearby were closed, the main sections of the surrounding area and the villages were closed, and the two large supermarkets nearby were still operating normally and had to prepare some dry rations for the staff.
像饺子、方便面、八宝粥这些，换着吃。
Like dumplings, instant noodles, porridge, these, in exchange for eating.
我们的工作时间一般是白天 10 点到晚上 11 点，下班以后才能和家里视频，孩子一般都睡了。
Our work time is usually 10: 00 to 11: 00 pm, after work and home video, children generally sleep.
现在小孩还比较乖，晚上也不闹人。
Now the children are better and don't make a fuss at night.
但是也觉得挺对不起妻子的。
But I feel sorry for my wife.
我和妻子都是单亲家庭，从小都是跟着父亲在武汉生活。
My wife and I are single-parent families, since childhood has been living with his father in Wuhan.
但是他们离我们住的地方都比较远，现在交通管制，他们也不方便到家里去看望。
But they are far away from where we live. Now traffic control is not convenient for them to visit at home.
虽然也会害怕，更多一点信心我叫姜海峰，今年 30 岁，是美团买菜站点的负责人。
Although will be afraid, a little more confidence I am Kang Haifeng, this year's 30-year-old, is the head of the U.
除了外卖小哥，我们门店是最直接面对消费者的。
Except for take-out brother, our store is the most direct consumer.
我老婆都是武汉人，我算是新武汉人，从十年前大学毕业就留在武汉。
My wife is Wuhan, I am a new Wuhan people, since the university graduated from Wuhan 10 years ago.
平时我们都在汉口的房子住，上下班就汉口、汉阳两边跑。
Usually we live in Hankou house, commuting on both sides of Hankou and Hanyang.
我不会开车，家里的车都是老婆开。
I can't drive. My wife drives all the cars at home.
最近因为交通限行，我就住到汉阳这边来，步行上班。
Recently because of the traffic restrictions, I live here in Hanyang, walk to work.
元旦前后，我们已经安排好了工作，每个站点每天都有两个人上班，安排员工轮流休假，回老家去和家人团聚。
Around New Year's Day, we have arranged for two people to go to work every day at each station, arrange for employees to take turns to go home and reunite with their families.
现在突然出现这个情况，在外地过年的员工肯定回不来了，作为门店主管，我们肯定是要顶上去。
Now suddenly this situation, in the field of New Year's staff will not be able to go back, as a store manager, we are sure to top up.
年三十晚上，我从后台看到订单是平时的两三倍，但是店里只有一个人能在岗。
In the evening of New Year's Eve, I saw orders two or three times more than usual, but there was only one person in the store.
我赶紧叫我老婆赶在封路之前把我送到汉阳这边来。
I hastened to tell my wife to send me to Hanyang before the road was closed.
招商公园这个小区很大，消费水平也还可以。
Merchants Park this small area is large, the consumption level is also OK.
附近没有大型超市配套，也没有菜市场。
There is no large supermarket nearby, nor is there a vegetable market.
因为过年的关系，周围的饭店、生鲜店都不开了，对出行不方便的居民来说，美团买菜就是他的依靠。
Because of the New Year, the surrounding restaurants, fresh shops are not open, for inconvenient residents, the U. S. Mission to buy vegetables is his dependence.
△门店开门营业之前（图 /姜海峰）现在店里一天是从 7 点钟开始的，前一天晚上大仓已经把货送到站点里。
Before the service opened (picture / Jiang Haifeng), the store started at 7 o'clock one day, and the goods had been delivered to the station the night before.
我们上班以后，要在 8 点前把货品分类放到货架上，像汤圆、水饺这种冻品放在冷柜里，绿叶菜放在一起，切配好的净菜要冷藏。
When we get to work, we have to sort the goods out on the shelves by 8: 00, like dumplings and dumplings. Keep them in the freezer, green leafy vegetables together, and keep the clean vegetables cool.
还有的菜品品质不好，我们要挑出来扔掉。
Some dishes are of poor quality. We'll pick them out and throw them away.
这样才能保证新鲜。
This will ensure freshness.
8 点开始营业之后，顾客来取他们前一天在手机 App 下的预售订单。
After business began at 8: 00, customers came to pick up orders they had placed on the App the day before.
我们要求是一分钟之内拣货完毕，交给顾客。
We require the goods to be picked up in a minute and handed over to the customer.
现在这个特殊状况就要更快，很多顾客不愿意在店里多待，他也害怕。
Now this special situation will be faster, many customers do not want to stay in the store, he is afraid.
以前顾客会在下班以后陆陆续续再来取菜，他下班很晚那我们就要等到很晚。
Customers used to drop in after work to pick up food, and he worked late so we had to wait until late.
最近不一样，一般都是一早赶快出来把菜拿回去，一天就不出门了。
Recently, not the same, usually out of the early morning quickly to take back the dishes, a day did not go out.
过了 12 点，当天订单基本上就结束了。
After twelve o'clock, the order was almost finished that day.
我们面向社区，现在社区里会有救护车进进出出，把人拉走，员工虽然也会害怕，我能做的就是跟员工站在一起，让他多一点信心。
We face the community, now that there will be ambulances in and out of the community, pulling people out, employees will be afraid, all I can do is stand by the staff and give him a little more confidence.
我就住在站点附近，因为我老婆在超市工作，也要坚持上班，所以我们从大年初一以后就没有见过面了。
I live near the site because my wife works in a supermarket and has to stick to work, so we haven't seen each other since New Year's Day.
现在要说害怕，我倒是不害怕的，一是我身体比较好，二是只要自己做好防护，就没有什么可怕的。
Now to say fear, I am not afraid, one is that I am better, and the other is that as long as you do a good job, there is nothing to fear.
听同事说，自疫情发生以来，我们美团买菜一直全力维持武汉 22 家站点正常运营。
Listen to colleagues say, since the outbreak of the disease, our U. S. Mission to buy vegetables have been trying to maintain the normal operation of 22 Wuhan stations.
这场疫情之下，有太多值得被听见的声音，不论你是一线医护人员、患者及家属、物资供应方、物流支持人员、志愿者、还是像本文中的外卖平台工作者，欢迎联系我们，让我们记录下你的故事。
In this epidemic, there are too many voices to be heard, whether you are front-line health care workers, patients and their families, material providers, logistics support personnel, volunteers, or people like the take-out platform in this article, welcome to contact us and let us record your story.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉一线 | 自己的城，自己守护。
Wuhan Rail & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间像素";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; human pixel & quot;;
var msg_title = "武汉一线 | 自己的城，自己守护";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我们的“战疫”：自己的城市，要自己守护。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; our plague: its own city, to protect itself.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人间像素";。
Var title = & quot; human pixel & quot;;
