1月，民间花式抗疫大赏。
January, the folk fancy anti-epidemic reward.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
8个关键词，构成了2020年1月这场牵涉全国疫情的一个侧面——一个个普通人，是如何度过了这个特殊的一月。
Eight key words make up a facet of the national epidemic in January 2020 - how ordinary people are getting through this particular month.
这次月度总结，我们决定记录一些疫情中令人啼笑皆非的小新闻，因为，这些看似微不足道的切片，构成了每个人在大事件中的真实生活——生活很难，但它始终在继续，尽可能地笑对或许是我们唯一可以用来抵抗艰难的武器。
In this monthly summary, we decided to document some of the ironic little stories of the epidemic, because these seemingly insignificant slices make up everyone's real life in big events---life is hard, but it keeps going on, laughing as hard as possible against what might be the only weapon we can use to resist hardship.
策划|洛阳铲小分队口罩这绝对是1月最重要的关键词。
Planned & # # 124; Luoyang Scraper Team Mask This is by far the most important keyword in January.
有人在微博上发起投票：“你们那里还能买到口罩吗”——近30万人参与了投票，其中26万人表示，买不到了。
A poll was launched on Weibo: "Can you still buy masks there" - nearly 300,000 people voted, 260,000 of whom said they could not buy them.
没有口罩，又不得不走出家门的人们，只能戴上自制口罩，以达到隔离飞沫的效果。
People who do not have face masks and have to leave their homes can only wear self-made masks to achieve the effect of isolation droplets.
1月30日，有博主在微博上征集“你见过最硬核的口罩”，目前，该条微博下已有1.2万条评论，从这些“硬核”口罩中，我们可以瞥见人民群众的生（满）存（心）智（无）慧（奈）——一些口罩由水果外壳制成。
On January 30, a blogger called for "the hardest-core mask you've ever seen" on Weibo, which now has 12,000 comments. From these "hard-core" masks, we can see people's lives (full) wisdom (Nai) - some masks are made of fruit husks.
一张广为流传的朋友圈截图显示，一位95岁的老人用橘子皮自制了口罩，并戴着口罩去社区医院取药。
A widely publicized photo of a friend showed a 95-year-old man making his own mask out of orange peel and wearing a mask to the community hospital for medication.
朋友圈文案写道：“他说这种口罩内层湿润可以美容，外面美观大方还可以防止细菌传染，而且戴上它可以润肺，有一股桔香，真是个聪明的长寿老人，真心祝他长寿！”与此类似，广西的网友们见到了家附近的老人，给柚子皮穿针引线，然后戴在了脸上。
"He said the mask has a moistening inside, a beautiful outside that keeps the infection from spreading, and that wearing it moistens the lungs and makes him a long-lived, intelligent old man who really wishes him a long life.
一位网友在自家楼下的超市里，见到了字面意义上“硬核”的口罩：用椰子壳制成的口罩，紧贴着老人的口鼻。
A netizen in the supermarket downstairs, saw the literal "hard core" mask: made of coconut shell, close to the old man's mouth and nose.
▲群众自制桔子皮“口罩”。
People made their own orange skin "mask."
图/ 网络也有人用保鲜膜、塑料水桶、雨衣和塑料袋制成口罩，和水果皮相比，这些口罩在防护功效上或许更接近医用口罩，只是，光看图片，就能感受到扑面而来的窒息感。
Pictures / networks also use plastic sheeting, buckets, raincoats and plastic bags to make masks, which may be closer to a medical mask than to a fruit peel, but they can feel suffocating just by looking at the pictures.
▲群众自制塑料桶“口罩”。
The crowd made their own plastic bucket "mask."
图/ 网络还有一些人脑洞大开：医用口罩是用一次性无纺布制成的，也有别的东西是同样材料制成的，那么，为什么不呢？——于是我们看到，纸尿裤、抹布，甚至卫生巾也纷纷上了脸。
Diagram / Network There are also large openings in the brain: medical masks are made of disposable nonwoven cloth, and there are other things made of the same material, so why notThen we see paper diapers, rags, even sanitary towels.
仅从卫生角度来说，这也许是最接近口罩本人的替代品了，只是不少网友表示，“我实在过不了那一关。
From a hygiene standpoint alone, this may be the closest thing to a replacement for the mask itself, although many netizens say, "I can't pass that.
”关于口罩，最新的一则消息是——1月31日，厦门开始实行口罩预约登记摇号购买。
As for masks, the latest news is that on January 31, Xiamen began to make an appointment to register to buy masks.
规定称，登记系统全天候开放，每人登记一次，中签结果将以短信方式通知，购买口罩时需要凭身份证原件和通知短信才能取到口罩。
The rules say the registration system is open 24 hours a day, that each person registers once, that the results will be notified by text message and that the mask will be purchased only with the original identification card and a notification message.
关于口罩，民间智慧自然有幽默的一面，但大多数网友笑完了就感到心酸：“如果口罩够用的话，谁会戴个水果皮出来呢？”消毒口罩要戴，消毒也得跟上。
As for masks, the folk wisdom has a humorous side, but most netizens feel sad after laughing: "If the mask is enough, who will wear a fruit peel?" Sterilized masks have to be worn and sterilized to keep up.
1月25日，不少小区群内传出“飞机消毒”的传言，几个小时后，辟谣传出。
On January 25, a number of community groups came out of "aircraft sterilization" rumors, a few hours later, rumour spread.
但两天之后的1月27日，山东菏泽的村民刘先生就拿出了自己的植保无人机，给全村无缝隙无死角地撒上了84消毒液。
But two days later, on January 27, Mr. Liu, a resident of Heze, Shandong Province, produced his own plant protection drone, sprinkling 84 disinfectant over the whole village without a gap.
有网友评价说，“本来是个谣言，被你搞成真的了。
"It was a rumor that you made it true," said a netizen.
”据专家解读，公共空间中，电梯间是最容易发生交叉感染的地方，因此，为了防止接触感染，不少小区的电梯里贴心地配备了一次性纸巾和使用说明：用纸巾裹住手指，按电梯按键，在乘坐电梯结束后，丢弃纸巾。
According to experts, elevator cars are the most prone to cross-infection in the public space, so to prevent contact, they are fitted with disposable towels and instructions: wrap fingers in paper towels, press the elevator button and discard paper towels at the end of the lift.
1月28日，陕西西安鄠邑区农村，各种款式的消毒车直接开进了村。
January 28, Shanxi Xi'an Zhenyi District, various types of disinfection vehicles directly into the village.
有植保用的大型消毒车，也有手推消毒车。
There are large disinfectant vehicles for plant protection, but also hand-propelled disinfectors.
评论区里，有村民表示，霸气是挺霸气的，只不过如果不留神，会被喷一身。
In the comments section, some villagers said that the domineering is quite domineering, but if not careful, will be sprayed all over.
1月30日，四川移动的用户收到了来自运营商的短信，提醒大家不要忽略了给手机消毒：每天消毒两次，外出回家必须立刻消毒，可以使用棉签沾上75%的医用酒精擦拭机身，酒精完全挥发后再次使用。
On January 30, Sichuan Mobile users received a text message from operators reminding them not to neglect to disinfect their mobile phones: disinfect them twice a day, disinfect them immediately when they go home, use a cotton swab and dip 75% of the alcohol in a cotton swab.
1月31日，四川宜宾64岁的肖大爷看电视得知疫情严重，家中需要经常消毒。
January 31, Sichuan Yibin 64-year-old Uncle Xiao watched television to learn that the outbreak is serious, the family needs regular disinfection.
正好家中有喷蔬菜剩下的敌敌畏进行消毒防疫，肖大爷想到敌敌畏可以杀虫，或许也可以杀病毒。
Just at home spray vegetables residual dichlorvos for disinfection vaccination, Uncle Xiao thought dichlorvos can kill insects, perhaps also can kill viruses.
于是他在房间角落和自己身上分别喷了一些农药，几小时后，脑壳发昏的肖大爷被儿子送去了医院。
He sprayed some pesticides on the corner of the room and on his own body. A few hours later, Uncle Xiao, whose skull was dizzy, was taken to the hospital by his son.
经过三次透析，捡回了一条命。
After three dialysis sessions, one life was recovered.
负责接诊肖大爷的医生说，有机磷毒药可以通过呼吸道和皮肤被人体吸收，如果家里没有医用酒精，也可以用高度白酒替代。
The organophosphorus poison can be absorbed through the respiratory tract and the skin, and can be replaced with a high degree of alcohol if there is no medical alcohol at home, said Dr. Shaw's doctor.
土味劝阻在全网的年轻人们想尽一切方法让不听劝的长辈们重视病毒，却屡屡失败后，他们终于发现，要想让固执的上一辈听话，只能使用他们最为熟悉且能够接受的语言系统。
After repeated failed attempts to dissuade young people across the network from trying to get their recalcitrant elders to pay attention to the virus, they have finally discovered that the only way to make stubborn elders obedient is to use the language systems they know best and can accept.
一种符合家庭群美学的宣传海报悄悄在社交媒体上蔓延开来。
A poster that fits into the aesthetics of family groups creeps up on social media.
高饱和度，字号大且与表情符号结合使用，逻辑强行关联，有时还挺押韵：“口罩的罩字是13画，福字也是13画，罩字谐音招字，有招来福气的寓意，戴上口罩就是戴上福气”。
High saturation, large and used in conjunction with emoticons, logical association, and sometimes rhyme: "mask cover is 13 paintings, the word is also 13 paintings, the cover word, there is a happy moral, wearing masks is well-being."
“家中老人口罩戴，福报绵绵传三代”。
"The old man mask in the family wears, bliss passes on continuously 3 generations".
▲网友自制顺口溜。
Easy come, easy go.
图/ 网络“这次肺炎之所以厉害，是因为和传统的不一样，人家是碱性病毒，常见的杀菌的盐啊白醋啊板蓝根啊，都是碱性的，根本杀不死！真正便宜有用的方法，竟然就藏在身边！”与此类似，在广大农村地区，最朴素的方法能起到最好的效果：村口大喇叭和标语横幅，才是最下沉的宣传路径。
Picture / Network "The reason this pneumonia is so bad is that unlike traditional ones, people are alkaline viruses, common bactericidal salts, white vinegar, planetblue root, are all alkaline and won't kill at all!
通过村口大喇叭，河南省辉县大占村村支书李德平的暴躁喊话爆红整个网络，“有些人就是死皮不要脸，叫你在家待着，你就待不住……你长得可了好看，你长得可了苗条……”李书记得知自己红了之后，压力很大，接受采访时表示，说了很多次不要串门不要扎堆儿，但有些村民就是不听，一气之下自己才说了些重话，但网友却纷纷表示，这是他们听过的最优美的河南话。
"Some people just don't have the face to ask you to stay at home, and you can't stay... You look great, you look very slim..." Mr. Li said in an interview that he didn't listen, but some villagers said it was the most beautiful Henan language they had ever heard.
大喇叭之外，村口的横幅则几乎成了民间抗疫的智慧结晶，它们大都很讲究对仗和押韵，句句掷地有声。
Outside the loudspeaker, the banners at the entrance to the village became the intellectual crystallization of the folk plague.
有的好言相劝——“口罩还是呼吸机，您老看着二选一”；“今天到处串门，明天肺炎上门”；“不聚餐是为了以后还能吃饭，不串门是为了以后还有亲人”；有的毫不留情——“今天沾一口野味，明天地府相会”；“出来聚会的是无耻之辈，一起打麻将的是亡命之徒”；“串门就是互相残杀，聚会就是自寻短见”。
You are always looking for a choice between a respirator and a respirator; drop in today and come down with pneumonia to-day; not having dinner for the future, not visiting for the next family.
▲村里的横幅。
The village banner.
图/ 网络这些用心良苦的土味劝阻也着实发挥着作用——1月24日，河南一位男士上门给姥爷拜年，被姥爷拒之门外：“提的吃的你先放门口！一会我自己拿。
Picture / Network These well-meaning soil discourages play a role too - on January 24, a gentleman from Henan paid a New Year call to his grandpa.
过年我就想自己过！”不过，外孙刚走出楼道，戴着口罩的老人就从窗户里扔了个塑料袋出来，里面装着一包口罩和一个红包。
But just as my grandson came out of the hallway, the old man in a mask threw a plastic bag out of the window, containing a bag of masks and a red envelope.
随后，老人啪一声重新关上了窗户。
Then the old man snapped the window shut again.
1月26日，河南偃师，一名男子带着妻儿从南阳冒雨开车300公里来拜访岳父，因防疫原因，被拦在村口不让进去。
January 26, Henan Yanshi, a man with his wife and children from Nanyang rain drove 300 kilometers to visit his father-in-law, because of epidemic prevention reasons, was prevented from entering the village.
不过，村支书给他们一家拍了一张照留念——这或许将成为这对夫妻相册里最难忘的一张照片。
But the village book took a picture of the family -- perhaps the most unforgettable photograph in the couple's album.
硬核举报晓之以情动之以理之外，一些“硬核”措施也被采取了。
In addition to the emotional justification for hard core reporting, some "hard-core" measures have been taken.
1月27日，四川眉山的一位姑娘拨通了街道办电话，将不听劝一定要出门打牌的父母给举报了。
On January 27, a girl in Mei Shan, Sichuan, dialed the street office and told her parents not to listen to advice to go out to play cards.
之后，成都武侯警方的官方公众号平安武侯称，欢迎后台私信父母打麻将坐标。
Afterwards, Chengdu Wu Hou police's official public number Ping An Wu said, welcome backstage private letter parents play mahjong coordinates.
在上海，一名男生举报了小区内的一家无证棋牌室，因为他的爸爸成天去那里打牌。
In Shanghai, a schoolboy reported on an unlicensed chess room in his neighborhood where his father had been playing cards all day.
很快，社区人员上门关停了棋牌室，还以此为素材创作了一首本地说唱：今年过年不一样/新型病毒侠结棍/偏偏有人想麻将/一万两万不要动/一筒两筒是个坑/一条两条泪两行/春暖花开再出门。
Soon, community members closed the board room and used it as a resource to create a local rap song: Different this year / New Year's Eve / New Virus knot / Someone wants Mahjong / 12,000 Don't move / One can be a pit / Two tearful lines / Spring flowers Open.
也有年轻人不忍心举报，便采取了相当迂回的方式。
There are also young people who do not have the heart to report and take a rather circuitous approach.
1月28日，陕西安康的小吴73岁的爷爷总是不戴口罩到处乱跑，为了制止爷爷的危险行为，小吴在午饭桌上劝老人多喝几杯。
Wu, a 73-year-old grandfather in Ankang, Shaanxi province, was seen scurrying around without a mask on January 28. To stop Grandpa from acting dangerously, Xiao Wu persuaded the old man to drink a few more cups at his lunch table.
很快，老人便被灌醉，午饭后倒头就睡，小吴也终于放下心来：爷爷终于不出门了！无人机养机千日，用机一时，无人机在这次的民间抗疫中发挥了大作用。
Soon, the old man was drunk, after lunch fell asleep, Xiao Wu finally relaxed: Grandpa finally did not go out! Drone aircraft for 1000 days, use the opportunity, the UAV in this civil fight against the disease played a large role.
1月29日，内蒙古呼和浩特的无人机向一个没戴口罩的老太太喊话：“老奶奶，别看了，这是咱们村的无人机，你不戴口罩就不要出去，不要乱跑，记得赶紧回家，回家洗洗手，对吧？咱们村这么多人都说你，都说不过，非得派无人机来飞你。
On January 29, the UAV in Hohhot, Inner Mongolia, shouted to an old woman without a mask: "Granny, don't look at this drone in our village. Don't go out and run around without a mask.
”视频以老太太转身离去的背影结束。
The video ends with the old lady turning away.
▲村里未佩戴口罩的老奶奶被无人机劝回。
The village grandmother who did not wear a mask was persuaded back by the drone.
图/ 梨视频同一天，江西宜春一社区干部用带有红外线热成像镜头的无人机给居民检查体温，“如果测量的距离能够在一米之内的话，误差率在1%。
Photo / Pear Video On the same day, a community cadre in Yichun, Jiangxi, checked the temperature of residents with an unmanned aerial vehicle with infrared thermal imaging cameras.
”1月30日，成都金堂县竹篙镇，一群正在打麻将的居民被飞来检查的无人机正好发现，村干部的声音从喇叭里传来：“不要打堆堆！”“小朋友别看了，赶紧喊你爸爸妈妈离开。
At Penny's Town in Jintang County, Chengdu, on January 30, a group of residents playing Mahjong was spotted by a drone coming in to check it.
”免费为了让全国人民减少外出，帮大家打发时间，各大平台也是费了一番心思。
"The platforms also struggle to get people around the country to cut back on travel and help them pass the time.
1月24日，字节跳动宣布，春节档电影《囧妈》将通过网络免费播出，字节跳动向欢喜传媒支付6.3亿，这也为《囧妈》赢得了好口碑，只不过，这一口碑在上映后很快滑落，豆瓣5.9分的评分和行业内的一片质疑都令徐峥非常尴尬。
On January 24, the byte beat announced that the Spring Festival movie "Jung Ma" would be broadcast free of charge on the Internet, with bytes bouncing to pay 630m to Happy Media, winning praise for "Jung Ma," but it quickly slid away after its release, embarrassing Xu Zheng with a 5.9-point rating and doubts in the industry.
1月26日，网易有道精品课发文称，为了顺利帮助延迟开学的学生们完成寒假的学习任务，将免费向武汉所有中小学生赠送网络直播课，三天后，全国中小学生都享受到了同等待遇。
All primary and middle school students in Wuhan will be given free webcasting lessons to help them complete their winter vacation studies, and all primary and middle school students will be given equal treatment three days later, according to a letter from Netease.
有网友总结：腾讯捐三亿，快手捐一亿，网易捐作业。
Have netizen summary: Tencent donates 300 million, fast hand donates 100 million, Netease donates the job.
1月29日，知网免费开放了协同工作平台，维普中文期刊开放了免费下载权限。
On January 29, Zeppelin opened the Teamworks platform free of charge, and Wikipedia's Chinese-language journals were granted free download rights.
热评第一条表示：“快删掉！我导师要看到了！”崩从APP崩溃的情况来看，这个一月，迫不得已宅在家里的全国人民和手机的绑定到底有多深。
Hot comment # 1 says: "Delete! My tutor will see!" From the collapse of the APP, this month, the people forced to stay at home and mobile phone binding.
1月25日，游戏“和平精英”崩了。
On January 25, the game "peace elite" collapsed.
这是一款吃鸡类手游，当天，玩家们登录时，突然发现：玩个游戏都要排队领号了。
This is a chicken hand-to-hand tour, the same day, players login, suddenly found: play a game have to queue for the number.
1月27日，多人在线游戏平台“玩吧”崩了。
On January 27, the multiplayer online gaming platform collapsed.
狼人杀开不了房间，无法开局，开局了游戏却不开始……焦急的玩家们点开微博，想看看自己是不是唯一一个玩不了游戏的人，结果直接把“玩吧崩了”拱上了热搜。
Werewolves can't kill a room, can't start a game but doesn't start... Anxious players tweet to see if they're the only one who can't play the game.
三天后，“玩吧又崩了”以同样的方式登上热搜榜。
Three days later, "Play it again" boarded the hot list in the same way.
1月29日，下厨房崩了。
On 29 January, the kitchen collapsed.
继去年大年三十晚上，由于过多人边看边学、现学现卖做年夜饭，导致下厨房宕机之后，这是第二次。
This is the second time since the New Year's Eve last year, when too many people were watching and learning to do Chinese New Year's dinner, leading to downtime.
有人说，看来今天的我只能靠创意了，吃到什么就听天由命吧。
Some people say, it seems that today I can only rely on creativity, eat what is resigned to fate.
1月30日，steam崩了。
On 30 January, the stream collapsed.
有网友表示，游戏软件们仿佛在玩“萝卜蹲”，一个接着一个崩，这就是肥宅的力量。
Some netizens said that the game software seems to be playing "radish squat", one by one avalanche, this is the strength of the mansion.
截至2月1日中午，steam的服务器依然没有维修好。
As at noon on 1 February, the steam server was still not in good repair.
同一天，以周为单位崩溃的豆瓣又崩了。
On the same day, the pea-pea, which collapsed on a weekly basis, collapsed again.
但对此习以为常的豆瓣用户们非常淡定，这甚至不值得为此发一条大惊小怪的微博。
But bean users, accustomed to the idea, are so self-effacing that it's not even worth a fuss about.
1月31日，网易严选上架了一批口罩，引发用户抢购，崩了。
On Jan. 31, Netease picked up a collection of masks, triggering a stampede and collapse.
晚上，在距离2月来临还有不到10分钟的时候，中科院上海药物所和武汉病毒所联合发现宣布，双黄连可抑制新型冠状病毒。
In the evening, less than 10 minutes before February, the Shanghai Medicine Institute of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Wuhan virus jointly discovered that Shuanghuanglian can inhibit the new coronavirus.
消息发出后不到5分钟，各大送药到家的app也崩了……同一天，试图从负能量新闻里拔出来看看同人小说的人们发现，LOFTER崩了。
Less than five minutes after the news, the drug-delivery apps collapsed... on the same day, people trying to pull out the negative energy news and read the fiction found that LOFTER had collapsed.
嗑CP嗑得正上头的人们发现网页加载不出来后，第一反应是文章被删了，惊恐万分地打开微博寻求帮助时，发现只是服务器崩了，于是放下了心，早早睡去了。
When someone who is on the top of a clap of CP discovers that the page cannot be loaded, his first reaction is to delete the article. When he asks for help in horror, he discovers that the server has just crashed, so he relaxes his mind and goes to bed early.
也是在1月的最后一天，当中小学生们终于决定开始补作业的时候，网课APP“升学E网通”崩了。
Also on the last day of January, when students finally decided to start mending their homework, the network APP "E-Net" collapsed.
无法登录，也看不了视频。
Unable to log in or view the video.
想到开学了老师要检查网课进度，他们十分焦躁：“现在连学习都不让我学了吗？”▲游戏页面崩溃，网友错愕。
Thinking of the beginning of school teachers to check the progress of online classes, they are very anxious: "Even now do not let me learn it?" the game page collapse, netizens dumbfounded.
图/ 网络“闲疯帝”由于疫情而无法出门的人们，终于设身处地面对那个经典的问题：如果给你一个房间，温度正好，有食物，有手机，有WiFi，你可以呆多久？答案是，无数闲得发慌人民群众都获得了“闲疯帝”的称号。
People unable to leave their homes because of the epidemic finally put themselves in the classic question: If you were given a room with just the right temperature, food, a cell phone, and WiFi, how long would you stay? The answer is that millions of people get the title of "idler."
1月26日，武汉张先生一家闭门不出的第五天。
On January 26, Mr. Zhang's family in Wuhan were closed for the fifth day.
为了缓解躺久了导致的肩颈疼痛，张先生带领一家人在客厅跳广场舞。
To ease the pain in his shoulder and neck after lying down for so long, Mr. Zhang led the family in a square dance in the living room.
“终于知道人家为什么要天天遛狗了。
"Finally I know why I walk my dog every day.
”同一天，由于疫情而无法返乡、留在北京过年的清华在读博士李先生，给自己养的猫讲起了函数：“这个我也教过你，对不对？你上次都答对了。
On the same day, Tsinghua University student Dr. Li, who was unable to return home due to the outbreak of the disease and stayed in Beijing for the New Year, described a function for his cat: "I taught you that, didn't I? You answered correctly last time.
”猫屡次想走，都被李先生拽了下来，强行要求听课。
The cat tried to go many times, and was dragged down by Mr. Lee, who forced her to attend the class.
▲猫咪在家被迫听函数讲解。
Cats are forced to listen to function at home.
图/ 梨视频1月27日，山东临沂的刘先生因不能出门，闲得无聊，只能爬上屋顶，旁观别人下棋，时不时还远程指导人家要怎么走。
Tu / pear video January 27, Shandong Linyi's Mr. Liu, unable to go out, bored, can only climb on the roof, watching other people play chess, and sometimes remote instructions on how to go.
对此，有医生提醒，飞沫最多可以传40米，建议戴好口罩再观战。
To this, have doctor to remind, droplet can transmit 40 meters max, suggest wearing good mask to watch war again.
1月28日，重庆的一位姑娘百无聊赖，想在家称体重玩儿。
On January 28th, a girl in Chongqing was bored and wanted to weigh herself at home.
结果，外公家只有称猪的秤，没有人类用的体重秤。
As a result, my grandfather's only weighing scale is called pig, not human weight scale.
在某种冥冥中的召唤下，外公用给猪称重的绳子，给一家人称了体重。
Under some mysterious call, Grandpa weighed the family with a rope to weigh the pig.
“在我双脚悬空的那一刻，我似乎感受到了底层劳动人民智慧的力量。
"At the moment my feet were suspended, I seemed to feel the power of the intellect of the working people at the bottom.
”最终，这杆称了几十年的猪都没有坏的秤，被180斤的舅舅坐断了。
Eventually, the pig, who had been weighed for decades, had no broken scales and was severed by 180 jin's uncle.
▲外公用称猪的秤杆为一家人称体重。
Grandfather used a weighing rod called a pig to weigh his family.
图/ 豆瓣1月29日，在北仑春晓洋沙山海域，两人因为在家防疫，宅了多日，“实在是憋坏了”，决定出来透透气，乘皮划艇出海游玩。
Photo / Douban January 29, Beilun Chunxiao Yang Sha Shan sea area, two people because of home vaccination, mansion for many days, "is really pent up," decided to take a breath out and go out to sea in a kayak.
划出岸边不远，就遇到风浪落水，多次爬上船又多次落水，反复几次后，体力耗尽，只能打电话求救。
Not far from the shore, the wind and waves fell into the water, many times climbed aboard the boat again and again, repeatedly, exhausted, can only call for help.
很快，两人被救起并批评教育。
Soon, the two were rescued and criticized for their education.
最后，让我们来欣赏一位心灵手巧的“闲疯帝”的创作——她用宅在家追剧时嗑完的坚果皮手工制作了一个米老鼠，我们也想借用这只可爱的米老鼠祝福各位——疫情终将过去，生活还在继续，新的一年，希望大家健康、平安。
Finally, let's enjoy the work of an ingenious "idler" who made a Mickey Mouse by hand out of the nut skin she used while she was at home chasing a play. We also want to use this lovely Mickey Mouse to wish you all the best in the end.
▲网友用瓜子开心果制作的米老鼠。
Internet users with melon seeds made of pistachios Mickey Mouse.
图/ @微博冷阿狗每人互动在家期间你是怎么打发时间的？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
How do you spend your time when everyone is at home?
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1月，民间花式抗疫大赏。
January, the folk fancy anti-epidemic reward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "1月，民间花式抗疫大赏";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in January.
var msg_desc = "一个个普通人，是如何度过了这个特殊的一月。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; How ordinary people have spent this particular month.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
