SARS中失去母亲，她说面对疾病不能只有恐惧。
Having lost her mother in SARS, she said she could not face disease only with fear.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
要不要在今天发这篇稿子，我们其实很犹豫。
We're really hesitant to post this post today.
这是一个看了会心碎的故事。
It's a heart-breaking story.
今天毕竟是大年三十，是一年以来真正可以卸下疲惫，沉浸在亲人相聚快乐里的时刻。
After all, today is New Year's Eve, is a year can really unload tired, immersed in the happy time of relatives together.
可是怎么说呢？SARS过去17年了，也许对很多人来说那是一场遥远淡漠的记忆。
But how? SARS has been around for the past 17 years, and for many people it may be a distant and distant memory.
而对有亲人逝去的人来说，那是连根拔起的摧毁。
And for those who have lost loved ones, it is destruction uprooted.
那些逝去的人不是数字，是父亲，母亲，女儿，姐妹，兄弟。
Those who died were not numbers, fathers, mothers, daughters, sisters, brothers.
如果每个人都能多做一点，多争取一点，多负责一点，多专业一点，也许很多孩子就不用活在丧失之痛的枷锁里。
If everyone can do more, more strive, more responsible, more professional, perhaps a lot of children do not have to live in the shackles of loss.
新的一年开始了，祝大家新年快乐。
A new year is here. Happy New Year to all of you.
希望疫情早点过去，每个人都健康平安。
Hopefully, the epidemic will be over soon and everyone will be healthy and safe.
文|房凝编辑 |金石 金匝运营 |肖睿新型冠状病毒性肺炎发生后，很多SARS亲历者的记忆被带回到2003年。
At Ren & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
31岁的房凝也是如此。
So is 31-year-old Aegean.
那一年她才14岁，家中8人，有5人感染SARS，被收治在北京不同的医院治疗，后来她的母亲因此离世。
She was 14 that year, eight members of her family and five people infected with SARS were admitted to different hospitals in Beijing and her mother died.
房凝和家人的生活，被2003年彻底切割为两个部分，失去至亲的悲伤，是无法彻底摆脱的。
Atrial coagulation and family life, completely cut into two parts in 2003, the loss of the grief of close relatives, can not be completely rid of.
她希望每一个人都能更重视这种疾病，不让悲伤重现，而不仅仅是恐惧。
She wants everyone to pay more attention to the disease and not just to fear the recurrence of sadness.
以下是房凝的自述。
The following is a self-report of Fengding.
1妈妈被送去医院的那天，我是伴着窸窸窣窣的通话声醒来的。
The day Mom was sent to the hospital, I woke up with the rustle of voices.
她正在给舅舅打电话，压低声音说自己病了，请他以后多去看姥姥，劝说他在家里备一些食品和常用物品。
She was phoning her uncle and whispering that she was ill. She asked him to visit her grandmother more often and persuade him to prepare some food and articles for use at home.
那是2003年4月，传言比确诊来得早得多，北京封城之说流传甚广，摆在货架上的物品被人哄抢。
It was April 2003, much earlier than the diagnosis, and word of the city's closure was widespread, with items on shelves being looted.
之前3月1日，北京首例输入性SARS确诊，3月中旬开始，“非典流行”的声音开始在四处发酵，所有人都谈论着这一件事。
The first imported case of SARS was diagnosed in Beijing on March 1, and since mid-March, the SARS epidemic has been fermenting around, with everyone talking about it.
再后来，电视台开始更新确诊和疑似数字。
Later, the station began updating the diagnosis and suspected figures.
妈妈开始发烧咳嗽的当夜，是她和爸爸结婚十七周年纪念日。
The night Mom started coughing and feverish, it was the seventeenth anniversary of her marriage to her father.
14岁的我指着电视里的消息跟妈妈说，即便得了也没事，死亡率和流行感冒一样，哪那么容易得个感冒就死了呢？当天晚上，我还是执拗地想和妈妈睡在一张床上。
Pointing to the news on TV, the 14-year-old told my mother that even if it did matter, the death rate would be the same as the flu pandemic, and who would die from a cold that night, when I stubbornly wanted to sleep in the same bed with my mother.
那些年，爸爸经常加班到很晚，我与他并不亲近，SARS之前的日子我都是和妈妈一起度过的，两个人吃饭，她陪我完成作业，我搂着妈妈睡觉。
In those years, Dad used to work late, and I wasn't close to him. In the days before SARS, I spent all the time with my mother.
那天夜里醒过来，我看到妈妈戴着口罩，坐在沙发上，她几乎一夜没睡，怕离得太近传染我，又忍住咳嗽怕吵醒我，我站在她身后，看到她的肩膀微微发抖。
Waking up that night, I saw my mother wearing a mask and sitting on the sofa. She had hardly slept all night, afraid of catching me too close and coughing to wake me up.
挂断给舅舅的电话后，妈妈要求我戴上口罩，我却觉得那是对她的不尊重，死活不戴，说着说着两个人都哭了。
After hanging up the phone to my uncle, my mother asked me to put on a mask, but I feel that it is not respectful to her, dead, said the two of them cried.
妈妈已经没有力气做饭了，倒在床边，我煮了速冻水饺，她吃了5个，那是她在家里吃的最后一顿饭。
My mother had run out of energy to cook, and collapsed on the edge of the bed. I cooked the frozen dumpling and she ate five, her last meal at home.
饭后，她指了指自己的一张两寸照片，照片里她的刘海被吹得高高的，那是她喜欢的样子。
After dinner, she pointed to a two-inch photo of herself, showing her bangs blown high in the air, the way she liked it.
她跟我说，如果我死了，葬礼上就用这张。
She told me if I was dead, I'd use this one for the funeral.
我们一家8口人，都住在一栋楼里。
All eight of us live in the same building.
最早感染的是大伯，3月中旬，他被诊断为重度肺炎，高烧近40度，稍有起色后被医院转诊到小区诊所输液。
In mid-March, he was diagnosed with severe pneumonia, with a high fever of nearly 40 degrees, and was referred to a community clinic for infusion after a slight improvement.
那间诊所没有床位，30平米的屋子里往往坐着20来个人。
The clinic has no beds, and there are often about 20 people sitting in a 30-square-metre room.
4月21日，大伯确诊。
On 21 April, my uncle was diagnosed.
两天后，是妈妈。
Two days later, it was Mom.
再之后是奶奶、爷爷、哥哥。
Then came Grandma, Grandpa, and Brother.
家里5个人感染SARS，躺在北京市不同医院的病床上。
Five members of the family became infected with SARS and lay in beds in different hospitals in Beijing.
剩下我和爸爸、大妈隔离在家。
I was left alone with my father and my mother.
家人比我要了解这场疫情的可怕程度。
My family knows the extent of the epidemic better than I do.
大伯临去医院前，跪在地上给爷爷奶奶磕了个头，他担心自己回不来，要感谢父母的养育之恩。
Before he went to the hospital, he knelt down and knocked his head against his grandparents. He was afraid that he would not be able to come back.
爷爷奶奶分开的一瞬，他们互相看了一眼，在一起的47年，都在那一眼里。
Grandparents separated for a moment, they looked at each other, together for 47 years, are in that eye.
妈妈离开时似乎清楚知道自己的去处，给我留了一笔钱、一封信，用手绢包着，她还带走了我的一张照片。
My mother seemed to know exactly where she was when she left, leaving me a sum of money, a letter wrapped in a handkerchief, and a picture of me with her.
每个人都是爸爸送过去的，他留下住院物品，看着他们一个个走进隔离区。
Everyone was sent to him by his father, who left the hospital belongings and watched them walk into the quarantine zone one by one.
隔离区内外用一层厚实的塑料布隔开，爸爸记得妈妈的最后一个动作是，回头，冲他摆了摆手。
Inside and outside the area of separation, separated by a thick layer of plastic, Dad remembered his mother's last move, turning around and waving to him.
后来，爸爸告诉我说，那一刻他觉得天花板似乎转了起来，整个世界天旋地转，一切都变了。
Later, Dad told me that at that moment he felt as if the ceiling was turning, the whole world was spinning and everything had changed.
▲2003年4月21日,北京地铁的工作人员在车厢内消毒。
April 21, 2003, Beijing subway staff in the car disinfection.
图/ 网络2第一天住进隔离病房的时候，妈妈打回来电话哭了，菜是凉的、饭是凉的，她和护士提意见，被抱怨“怎么这么多事儿”。
Photo / Network 2 When she was admitted to the isolation ward on the first day, my mother called back to cry. The food was cold and the food was cold.
没几天，妈妈就不在电话里抱怨饭食了，我以为是逐渐好起来了，但实际上，她已经吃不下什么了。
A few days later, my mother stopped complaining about the food on the phone. I thought it was getting better, but in fact, she couldn't eat any more.
后来翻看她的病历我才知道，住院第五天她就用上了呼吸机。
Then I read her medical history, and on the fifth day she was in hospital she had a ventilator.
她和大伯都属于重症患者，入院的第三天，就被转去了北京地坛医院，送上120的时候，大伯在一辆车上看到了妈妈，他想叫她，但是一开口就咳嗽，他至今懊悔，“如果我知道那是最后一面，那我爬也会爬过去看她一眼的。
On the third day of hospitalization, she and her uncle were transferred to Ditan Hospital in Beijing. When the eldest brother saw her in a car, he wanted to call her, but when he opened his mouth and coughed, he still regretted that, "If I had known it was the last side, I would have crawled over to see her.
”▲2003年5月11日，地坛医院的非典病房。
11 May 2003, the SARS ward at Ditan Hospital.
图/ 贺延光《抗“非典”纪实摄影作品》被隔离在家的日子是痛苦的，甚至是羞耻的，我怕同学知道我家的事情，怕被当作异类，打来电话我都会刻意不接，等几个小时再回过去，营造出一种我不是时时在家，不是无处可去的氛围。
Picture / He Yanguang "anti-SARS" documentary photography is painful, even shameful, I am afraid that students know about my family, afraid of being treated as an alien, I will deliberately call back for hours, creating a not always at home, is not nowhere to go.
每天清晨起床，家里充满着过氧乙酸的味道，尤其是卫生间里，马桶圈上冰冰凉凉的，坐上去有被扎了一下的感觉。
Every morning, the home is filled with the smell of peroxy acetic acid, especially in the toilet, cold on the toilet seat, sitting up a bit stabbed.
然后是等待。
And then wait.
每天上午，街道办的工作人员会来敲门。
Every morning, the office workers knock on the door.
他们会在头一天打来电话，问次日需要的食品、物品。
They would call the first day and ask for the food and things they needed the next day.
就像对接头暗号一样，几声门响之后，我拿着手表等着，五分钟，再开门把东西领进来。
Like the signal to the joint, after a few doors rang, I waited with my watch for five minutes before I opened the door and brought in my things.
偶尔从楼上望下去，工作人员早已消失，不见踪影。
Occasionally, the staff disappeared and disappeared from view from above.
那是我一天一次与外界联结的仪式。
It was my daily ritual of connecting with the outside world.
每一天都没什么盼头，学校已经停课，电视里的空中课堂并没人有兴趣听，我穿着睡衣在充满乙酸味的屋子里游荡。
With nothing to look forward to every day, no classes at school, no one interested in the air classes on TV, I roamed the sour-smelling room in my pajamas.
手机成为了我和妈妈的唯一联系，我每天精神紧张地握着手机，一遍遍地打妈妈的电话。
My mother and I became the only mobile phone contact, every day I nervously hold the phone, over and over again over and over her phone.
屏幕发出的亮光刺激着我，有时候让我不能逃离，不去设想她的情况，有时候又提醒我她就在那一边，离我不远。
Screen lights excite me, sometimes preventing me from escaping, from imagining her situation, and sometimes reminding me that she is on the other side, not far from me.
刚开始妈妈的电话是通的，有时候她会接听，我能听到电话里她浓重的呼吸声和咳嗽声，之后通话时间越来越短，后来就再也没拨通过。
Sometimes she would answer the phone. I could hear her heavy breathing and coughing on the phone. Then the conversation became shorter and shorter and she never got through again.
大伯确诊14天后，我和父亲、大妈已被解除隔离的告示贴在了电梯间最醒目的地方，尽管如此，我们也几乎没有出门。
Fourteen days after my uncle's diagnosis, my father and aunt had been removed from isolation and posted in the most prominent place in the elevator, but we hardly went out.
唯一一次，大妈下楼倒垃圾，回家后不到一小时，警察敲门，说隔壁有人报了警，那是我当时最焦虑和厌烦的时刻。
The only time my mother went downstairs to take out the garbage, less than an hour later, the police knocked on the door and said that someone had called the police next door.
3噩耗很快到来。
Bad news soon came.
有一天睡醒，听到我爸冲着电话哭喊，挂了电话他跟我说，爷爷不在了。
One day I woke up and heard my dad crying over the phone and hung up. He told me Grandpa wasn't there.
这么多年，爸爸都活在愧疚里。
For so many years, Dad lived with guilt.
他送爷爷去医院的时候，爷爷只有轻微的咳嗽，医生建议回家吃药静养。
When he took Grandpa to the hospital, he only had a slight cough, and the doctor advised him to go home for medication.
爸爸坦白了家里已有人确诊SARS的事实，医生马上建议住院隔离治疗。
Dad confessed to the fact that SARS had been diagnosed in the family and the doctor immediately recommended hospitalization for isolation.
即便如此，爷爷和堂哥也属于轻症，从始至终没有高烧，他们被转去北京佑安医院，住在同一个病房。
Even so, Grandpa and Cousin were mild cases and never had a high fever from start to finish. They were transferred to Yu'an Hospital in Beijing and shared a ward.
爷爷去世的那天早上，护士来通知他们三天后出院，堂哥去房外接水，回来的时候，看到爷爷已经歪倒在床上，心脏病发，抢救无效。
On the morning of Grandpa's death, the nurse came to tell them to leave the hospital three days later. When his cousin came back, he found that he had fallen on his bed, had a heart attack and was unable to save him.
那天是5月4日，直到那时，我都以为爷爷是家里第一个离世者。
It was May 4, and up to that point, I thought Grandpa was the first person in the family to die.
接下来的日子，我开始变得有些神经，和自己暗自打赌，“如果这片叶子在接下来半分钟里没有晃动，就意味着我妈还活着。
In the days that followed, I began to get a little nervous and wager to myself, "If this leaf doesn't wobble for the next half-minute, it means my mother is alive.
”如果没有我会激动地大笑，如果有一点晃动我会突然大哭。
"I would have laughed excitedly without it, and I would have burst into tears had there been a little shaking.
我盯着日历，算每一天是否“吉利”，到5月14日的时候，因为“我要死”的谐音，我几乎崩溃，一遍遍地摩挲直板手机键盘上那几个熟悉的数字。
I stared at the calendar to see if it was "lucky" for each day, and by May 14, I almost collapsed, rubbing the familiar numbers on the keyboard of my mobile phone over and over again because of the "I'm dying" homophony.
不到一个月，一个几乎崭新的手机，有三个按键被我摩挲得掉了漆。
Less than a month later, I rubbed the paint off three buttons on an almost brand new phone.
直到五月底，爸爸终于撑不住，告诉我，5月1日，妈妈确诊的第九天，她就已经离世。
By the end of May, Dad could no longer hold out, telling me that on May 1, the ninth day of my mother's diagnosis, she had passed away.
当时还有一个谣传，称因为是疫病，医院不会负责火化，所有尸体都会被直接深埋地下。
There was also a rumour that the hospital would not be responsible for cremation because of the disease and that all the bodies would be buried directly under the ground.
我回到房间，锁上门，靠墙坐在地板上，一下下地用后脑勺往墙上撞，直到磕出一个大包。
I went back to my room, locked the door, sat on the floor against the wall, and banged my head against the wall with a single blow until it hit a large bag.
我担心只有40岁的母亲逐渐变得冰冻，担心深埋在地下泥土会渗入她的皮肤，担心她的身体一点点地被细菌腐蚀、被昆虫啃咬。
I was worried that only her 40-year-old mother would freeze and that the dirt buried deep in the ground would seep into her skin, fearing that her body would be bit by bit by bacteria and eaten by insects.
几次梦里，我贴在妈妈的怀里睡着，搂着她的脖子，她笑着看我，然后一歪头，断了气息。
In a few dreams, I fell asleep in my mother's arms and put my arms around her neck. She looked at me with a smile, then turned her head away.
那个歪头的动作太让人难过，我经常大哭大叫着从梦里醒来，想象着她在人世间最后一秒的状态。
That crooked action is so sad that I often wake up crying out of my dream, imagining her last second in the world.
我没见到她的遗体，等到8月接回时，已经只剩骨灰。
I didn't see her body, and when I picked it up in August, it was ashes.
我抱着骨灰大哭，不明白一个活生生的人，怎么会变成只有几百克的重量？后来，因为怕被传染，妈妈的钱包和一切物品都被烧了，只剩当时她带走的我的那张照片，被护士装在了透明口袋中，四个角有消毒水泡过发白的痕迹，是我领回的唯一一样遗物。
I cried with my ashes in my arms, wondering how a living human being could have become only a few hundred grammes weight.Then, fearing infection, my mother's purse and everything was burned, leaving the picture of me she had taken with her, in a transparent pocket with four corners marked with disinfectant bubbles of white, the only relic I had recovered.
4现在想来，我最后一次见到妈妈是在电视上，镜头晃过，她穿着蓝白条纹的病号服，戴着氧气面罩，艰难地对着镜头比出了一个v字手势。
Now I want to come to think of it, the last time I saw my mother on TV, the camera swinging, wearing a blue-and-white striped medical uniform, wearing an oxygen mask, making a difficult V-sign to the camera.
那一段被用在众志成城抗击非典的宣传片里。
That paragraph was used in a publicity campaign against SARS in the city of Cizheng.
她打的最后一通电话是爸爸接的，她在电话里说，想要爸爸带酸奶和果茶来，这些都不是她爱喝的东西，她解释说，是喝了隔壁床送的，想还对方的人情。
The last call she made was from Dad, who said on the phone that she wanted him to bring yogurt and fruit tea, which were not her favorite drinks, she explained.
那是她去世的前一天，因为被隔离，没办法送过去，爸爸打电话给亲戚朋友，但听说要去地坛医院，都被婉拒。
It was the day before her death. Unable to get to her because she was quarantined, my father called relatives and friends, but he was told to go to Ditan Hospital.
直到第二天，妈妈的一位好友帮忙送到，她站在守门的人身边，一遍遍写下妈妈的名字，过来交接的负责人先后来了三个，每一个人回去查资料的时候，这位阿姨心就紧了一下，直到最后一个人告诉她，人上午已经没了。
The next day, one of her mother's best friends helped deliver it. She stood by the doorman and wrote down her mother's name over and over again, and the person in charge of the handover came three times.
直到现在，每年清明，爸爸都会拿酸奶和果茶到墓地，那是他的遗憾。
Until now, every year in the Tomb Sweeping Day, Dad would bring yogurt and fruit tea to the cemetery, which was his regret.
6月1日，我和爸爸去接奶奶，她后来被安置在北京市小汤山医院非典病房，这座医院仅用了8天建成，收治了680名确诊病人，后来被称为中国版的“寂静岭”，已经在10年前拆除。
On June 1, my father and I went to fetch Grandma. She was later placed in the SARS ward of Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital, which took only eight days to build and treated 680 confirmed patients.
小汤山地区在当年并不繁华，医院是军队康复疗养院改建的，从八达岭高速（今京藏高速）一路开过去，能感觉到愈发荒凉。
Xiaotangshan area was not prosperous in that year, the hospital is the army rehabilitation sanitarium reconstruction, from the Badaling Highway (now the Beijing-Tibet Highway) along the way, can feel more desolate.
▲2003年4月，正在日夜抢工建设的北京小汤山医院。
In April 2003, the day and night construction of the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital.
图/ 视觉中国奶奶没有手机，没法和外界联系，她白天打激素，努力下床走动，夜里腿部疼痛难忍，无法入睡。
Photo / Visual Grandma has no cell phone and no contact with the outside world. She takes hormones during the day, tries to get out of bed, and has terrible pain in her legs at night and cannot sleep.
她后来告诉我，睡不着的时候，她能听见简易病房里不停止的咳嗽、哀嚎和哭泣声。
She later told me that when she could not sleep, she could hear the constant coughing, whining and weeping in the small ward.
奶奶回家隔离14天之后，得到了疾控中心发放的解除医学观察同意书。
Granny went home 14 days after isolation, the CDC issued a consent to release medical observation.
我们在这个基础上，又自行加了10天。
We added 10 days of our own on this basis.
24天后，我陪奶奶下楼，那天正好是世界卫生组织宣布，北京从SARS疫区名单中删除的日期，我们刚吸了一口自由的空气，原本楼下坐一排的老人们立刻散开，唯一一个想过来和奶奶打招呼的老人，被儿媳妇拉了一下。
Twenty-four days later, I accompanied Grandma downstairs, just as the World Health Organization announced that Beijing had been removed from the SARS list. We had just taken a breath of free air. The old people in the row downstairs immediately dispersed.
再之后，奶奶也愈发孤独了。
After that, Grandma got lonely.
她还没能接受爷爷离开的事实，家人也各有各的伤痛，顾不上开解她。
She had not yet accepted the fact that Grandpa had left, and her family had had their own aches and pains, rather than solve her problems.
SARS结束两个月后，有一次，我放学回家，看到奶奶站在楼下，眼睛下面的肌肉似乎在一夜间没有了，眼袋耷拉着，满头花白的头发，两只手背在身后，没人跟她说话。
Two months after SARS was over, I came home from school one day to find my grandma standing downstairs with muscles under her eyes that seemed to have disappeared overnight.
5年幼失母，我的青春期好像延长了。
Young mother, my puberty seems to be lengthened.
那段时间，我变得自怜、任性、跋扈。
During that time, I became self-pity, self-willed and domineering.
在家，我痛恨爸爸隐瞒了我近一个月，和他关系紧张；在学校，我把张洁写的《世界上最爱我的那个人去了》大喇喇地摆在课桌上，似乎在宣示自己受到了数倍于同龄人的痛苦，理应受到更多的照顾和理解。
At home, I hated my father for hiding me for nearly a month, and my relationship with him was strained; at school, I put Zhang Jie's "The Man Who loves me best in the world" on the desk, as if to proclaim that I had suffered many times over from my peers and deserved more attention and understanding.
我确实也得到了一些特殊的“关照”。
I did get some special attention.
学校复课后，进门先要过一次体温枪检测，我在家量好体温后去学校，还是屡屡收到不合格的通知。
When school resumed, I had to have a temperature check before entering the house. I took my temperature at home and went to school.
被拦在校门外两周后，我想出了一个办法，每天早起半小时，先在家量好体温，确定正常后，用隔夜冰好的袋装牛奶一个捂在脑门上、一个夹在腋下，然后一步一步地慢速走去学校，路上碰到同学也从不与人同行，生怕在7月的高温下快步走出汗，影响体温。
After I had been barred from school for two weeks, I came up with a way to get up half an hour early every day, measure my temperature at home, make sure it was normal, cover my forehead with cold overnight bags, put one under my armpits, and walk slowly to school.
▲2003年6月4日清晨,太原市第五中学校医在校门口为高三学生测量体温。
Early in the morning of June 4, 2003, Taiyuan City Fifth Middle School School Medical School in front of the school for senior three students to take temperature.
图 / 网络这种小心翼翼的姿态现在想来有些心酸，但在当时，即便体温枪没有超过36.5度，我还是被拦在门外，甚至与值班老师发生吵闹，一度成为了校园里有名的“问题学生”。
But even though the temperature gun didn't exceed 36.5 degrees, I was barred from the door and even quarreled with the teacher on duty, once a famous "problem student" on campus.
这种状态一直延续到了初三，我整个人透出一种慵懒的“垮”和自认为很“酷”，我穿大大的校服，做课间操时候故意动作做得很不到位，被老师叫到台上，给全学校展示——现在想来，那也许是我自卑又自怜的一种伪装。
I wore a big school uniform, I didn't do my homework properly, I was called to the stage by my teacher, and I showed it to the whole school.I thought it might be a disguise of my inferiority complex and self-pity.
在最执拗的那几年里，我很少哭，除非是遇到激烈的争吵，或者旁人言辞间散出鄙夷，眼泪才会流下来。
During the wildest years I seldom wept, except in the heat of argument, or in some other tongue's scorn.
直到现在，家人去世已经快17年，我仍在反思自己当时的状态，我把这些年分成两个阶段，前7年，我在可怜自己，大片的快乐似乎在一瞬间被抽离干净，坐在公交车上看到小女孩牵着妈妈的手，靠在妈妈的肩上，我会下意识地转过头去；后来的10年，我开始心疼他们，心疼他们的生命突然被一场瘟疫带走，却至死不知是什么原因。
Until now, nearly 17 years after the death of my family, I was still reflecting on my state. For the first seven years, I was in pity of myself. For the first seven years, I felt sorry for myself, and when I sat on the bus and saw the little girl holding her mother's hand against her shoulder, I turned my head unconsciously.
62003年，也成为我们家庭分割记忆的坐标。
The year 2003 also became the coordinates of our family's memory.
2003年之前，我家还是个美满的8口家庭，祖孙三代。
Before 2003, my family was a happy family of eight, three generations of grandchildren.
2003年之后，每一年的三十晚上，我们都会先给爷爷和妈妈供上食物，祭拜后再开饭。
After 2003, every year on thirty nights, we would serve food to our grandpa and mother, and then we would have dinner.
直到现在，姥姥还没办法走出2003年，因为想念她唯一的女儿，她已经哭成了干眼症，走在大街上，看到和妈妈相似的人，她会一路跟着，看到我，她偶尔会喊出妈妈的名字。
Until now, Grandma had been unable to get out of 2003 because she missed her only daughter. She had become dry-eyed and walked down the street, seeing people like her mother, who would follow and see me and occasionally call out her mother's name.
妈妈的死讯是我告诉姥姥的，人情凉薄，亲戚朋友那时不走动了，也没人告诉她后来的情况。
My mother's death was what I told Grandma. It was cold. Relatives and friends did not move, and no one told her what had happened.
这之后，舅舅们和我家也逐渐没了来往。
After that, my uncles and I gradually lost touch.
他们潜意识里觉得，妈妈是在我家“被害死”的，无从辩解。
They subconsciously feel that my mother was "killed" in my home, there is no way to explain.
治疗SARS时使用的大量激素，也让大伯、奶奶和堂哥有骨质疏松的迹象。
The amount of hormones used to treat SARS also showed signs of osteoporosis in older men, grandmothers and cousins.
最严重的是大伯，治愈后没有多久，他便离开了工作岗位，办理了提前退休。
The worst of all was my uncle, who left his job shortly after the cure and took early retirement.
他的双肺已经重度纤维化，即便是安静的时候也会呼吸困难。
He has severe fibrosis in both lungs and has difficulty breathing even in quiet times.
这些年，他的双腿越来越细，股骨头多处坏死，起床躺下或是蹲下上厕所，都需要外力搀扶。
Over the years, his legs grew thinner and his femoral head was necrotic. He needed help to get up and lie down or squat down to the toilet.
他总是会做同样的梦，梦见自己像鱼一样在深海里潜泳，因为没有鱼鳃，无法呼吸，双腿也不知去了哪里。
He would dream of swimming in the deep like a fish, because without gills, he could not breathe and his legs did not know where to go.
今年的疫情一发生，我好像又闻到了记忆里的过氧乙酸味，也感觉到社会在一点点被割裂，武汉的病人滞留在各处，却无法确诊是否为“新型冠状病毒肺炎”，其他省市的人们一边提到武汉避之不及，更过分的，还有人会讲起段子和笑话。
As soon as this year's outbreak occurred, I felt as if I could smell peroxyacetic acid in my memory again. I also felt that the society was being severed a little bit and Wuhan patients were stuck here and there but could not confirm whether it was the new coronavirus pneumonia.
恐惧很正常，但更重要的，是真正重视这种疾病。
Fear is normal, but more important is a real focus on the disease.
武汉封城的前一天晚上，爸爸坐地铁回家。
Wuhan, the night before the city, Dad took the subway home.
身后，两位中年女性正在大声谈论。
Behind them, two middle-aged women were talking loudly.
“肯定没事，咱们中国人多，就不怕死。
"We have so many Chinese people that we are not afraid to die.
”“就是，当年非典说得那么严重，不也没死多少人吗？”爸爸告诉我，他当时扭头看了一眼，转头捂紧了自己的口罩，后来，他手机的新闻推送显示，当天湖北已有17人死亡。
'Is it true that SARS was so severe that not many people died? 'Papa told me as he turned his head and put his head over his mask, and later, according to a news release on his mobile phone, 17 people died in Hubei that day.
▲截至目前，新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情实时动态。
Up to now, the new coronavirus infection pneumonia real-time dynamic.
图 /丁香园每人互动你身边有这次肺炎的亲历者吗？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
Photo / Lilac Garden Do you have someone close to you who has been through this pneumonia?
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
SARS中失去母亲，她说面对疾病不能只有恐惧。
Having lost her mother in SARS, she said she could not face disease only with fear.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "SARS中失去母亲，她说面对疾病不能只有恐惧";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "2003年，成为一个家庭分割记忆的坐标。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 2003, coordinates of a family division memory.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
