肺炎阴影下，十个普通人的烦恼。
In the shadow of pneumonia, the troubles of ten ordinary people.
每人作者。
Author per person.
每日人物                      。
Daily characters.
每日人物。
Daily characters.
轻商业，懂生活。
Light business, understand life.
。
.
昨天是春节假期后返工第一天，但因为新冠肺炎的影响，注定了是一个不一样的开工日。
Yesterday was the first day after the Spring Festival rework, but due to the impact of the new crown pneumonia, is doomed to a different start date.
每日人物询问了10个不同行业已经开工的人，他们正在做的工作，和我们的生活息息相关，记录他们的生活和烦恼，也是记录这次疫情所影响的不同侧面。
The Daily People ask people who are already working in 10 different industries, what they are doing is relevant to our lives, documenting their lives and worries, and documenting the different aspects of the epidemic's impact.
文|翟锦 龚菁琦易方兴 李斐然编辑 |金匝运营 |肖睿父母滞留疫区，谁来带娃？朱迪 职场妈妈我大概是我们那个湖北小城最后一波离开的人。
Zhai Jin Jia Qi Yi Fang Fan Li & amp; Edit & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
原本是提前请了年假，带着一岁半的孩子和公婆回湖北过年，那是1月19日，疫情还算平稳，人传人也未被证实。
Originally asked for annual leave in advance, with a year and a half of children and her mother-in-law back to Hubei New Year, that is January 19, the epidemic situation is fairly stable, the human-to-human transmission has not been confirmed.
我当时的打算是，在小城过完年，带着爸妈来北京，和公婆交接——在北上广，和我相似状况的人很多，一个双职工家庭，都要工作，带娃的重担，都留给了各自的爸妈。
My plan was to spend the New Year in the small city, bringing my parents to Beijing and handing over to my parents-in-law - in the north, there were many people in a situation similar to mine, a dual-career family that had to work, and the burden of bringing babies to their parents.
但随后的形势超乎了我的想象，只是在家待了短短三天，坏消息接踵而来，小城也有了确诊病例。
But things turned out better than I had expected, just three short days at home, bad news and confirmed cases in the town.
因为担心孩子还小，小城的医疗资源也远不如北京，我连夜买了邻市的飞机票，天还没亮，就让爸妈送我和孩子去了机场。
Fearing that my children were still young, the medical resources of the town were far inferior to those of Beijing. I even bought a ticket to a neighboring city overnight.
那是一个大雾天，去机场的路都是隐隐绰绰，车开得极慢，我们几个人都很沉默，担心赶不上飞机。
It was a foggy day, and the road to the airport was drifting slowly, and several of us were silent, afraid of missing the plane.
也不是没想过带爸妈一起来，但当时觉得，等在湖北过完年，爸妈再来也不迟。
I didn't mean to bring my parents with me, but I felt that it was not too late to wait until the New Year in Hubei.
就在路上，我收到了还在北京的先生发来的信息：武汉封城。
On the way, I received a message from the gentleman still in Beijing: Wuhan Sealing City.
当下我就觉得不妙了。
I feel bad about it right now.
虽然爸妈和公婆所在的小城离武汉有200多公里，但在那边务工的人数众多，春节回乡的流动是必然的，紧接着，怕是也要封。
Although the parents and mother-in-law of the city is more than 200 kilometers away from Wuhan, but there are a large number of people working there, the Spring Festival return to the hometown is inevitable, followed by, if not sealed.
果然，回北京第二天，还留在那里的爸妈就接到了火车站封站的消息，之后是高速、省道、村道都不通了，最后是小区也不让开车出入了。
Sure enough, the day after returning to Beijing, my parents, who had stayed there, received word of the train station being closed, then the expressway, the provincial road, the village road was blocked, and finally the community was not allowed to drive in and out.
就这样，爸妈来北京帮我带娃的事彻底搁置了。
In this way, my parents came to Beijing to help me bring my baby completely shelved.
爸妈和公婆滞留湖北的13天，就是我和先生与孩子战斗的13天，除了精疲力竭，找不到合适形容词了。
My parents and mother-in-law stayed in Hubei for 13 days, during which my husband and I fought with our children.
一岁半的孩子，需求太多，一日三餐，陪玩陪睡，她喜欢的11只猫开饼店的故事，大概一天能要求我讲上100遍。
One-and-a-half-year-olds, need too much, three meals a day, play with the company to sleep, her favorite 11 cat pancake shop story, probably a day can ask me to speak 100 times.
夜里还得哄，她精力旺盛，但因为从疫区回来，有必须被隔离的14天，没办法出门玩，无处发泄，每天在家简直要闹到拆房揭瓦。
The night had to be coaxed, she had to be kept in quarantine for 14 days after returning from the epidemic area, unable to go out to play, nowhere to vent, every day at home simply to the demolition of a tile.
还有无休止的工作，假期是不存在的，因为疫情的存在，反而比从前更忙碌，我只能趁孩子睡着后，赶紧打开电脑去处理一些事情。
There are endless jobs. Vacations are non-existent, because the epidemic is much busier than before. I can only turn on my computer and do something while my child is asleep.
时间都被分割成碎片，全给了工作和孩子，完全没了自我的生活。
Time is divided into pieces, given to work and children, completely devoid of self-living.
今天已经是开工第二天，在家办公，但2月10号就要得去公司上班了。
Today is the second day of work, work from home, but February 10 will have to go to the company.
我最担心的，是那时候怎么办？如果封城还没结束，爸妈来不了，要请保姆吗？可真请了，现在这样的状况，又怎么放心？我也看到了那个双职工家庭可以留一个人在家带孩子的消息，但实际操作起来，怕是困难重重。
If the city is not over and parents can't come, will you hire a babysitter? But please, how can I rest assured of this state of affairs? I also saw the news that the dual-earner family could stay at home with their children, but in practice, it was difficult, if not impossible.
人到中年，本就烦恼无数，又赶上这样的特殊时期，真叫人叹息。
It is a sigh to see that middle-aged people, who are troubled by so many things, catch up with such a special period.
▲图/ 视觉中国找不到小店吃饭，我都吃4天泡面了董盛快递小哥我老家是四川的，本来打算腊月二十八回去过年，然后初四再回北京，但家人说老家都隔离了十几个人，我就留在这里加班了。
I was originally from Sichuan. I had planned to go back to China on the 28th of December and then back to Beijing on the fourth day of the Lunar New Year. But my family said I had isolated a dozen people back home, so I stayed here to work overtime.
现在送快递比以前简单，一是路上车少人少，比较好走，二是因为小区都封闭化管理了。
Express delivery is now easier than before, one is less people on the road, easier to go, the second is because the small area is closed management.
我们一般把车停在门口，门卫也不敢收快递，只能打电话喊人下来取。
We usually parked cars in the door, the doorman did not dare to receive express delivery, can only call people down to pick up.
就算偶尔送上了楼，对方一般也不开门，就让我放门口。
Even if occasionally on the floor, the other side generally does not open the door, let me put the door.
我们现在都是无接触式送货方式，跟人要保持两三米远，就把快递盒子放在地上，还得提醒一下对方要记得洗手。
We are now all contactless delivery, with people to maintain a distance of two or three meters, the express box on the ground, but also to remind each other to remember to wash their hands.
最近我遇到过各种奇怪的要求，有让我把快递放到小区里最高的那棵树下面的，还有让我放到草丛里的。
I've been asked lately to put express delivery under the tallest tree in the neighborhood, and in the grass.
有户人家门口放了个桶，桶上写了个纸条：“快递请丢到桶里面。
There was a bucket in front of the house. There was a note on the bucket: "Please drop it into the bucket.
”至于我们自己，站点每天都会发口罩，也会喷洒酒精消毒。
As for ourselves, the site gives out masks every day and disinfects them with alcohol.
前几天酒精卖完了，我们只能买了56度二锅头灌到喷壶里面代替，所以要是有人收到的快递盒子上有一股白酒味，那估计就是我们送的。
The other day when we ran out of alcohol, we had to buy a 56-degree kettle to replace it, so if someone gets a liquor-scented express box, it's probably from us.
现在对我们来说，最麻烦的就是找不到吃饭的地方。
The most troublesome thing for us now is to find no place to eat.
大餐厅吃不起，小餐厅90%以上都关门了。
Large restaurants cannot afford to eat, and more than 90 per cent of the canteens are closed.
我记得我以前常去一家小店，店主就是湖北武汉的。
I remember I used to go to a small shop. The shopkeeper was from Wuhan, Hubei Province.
以前我常吃他们家的热干面，15块钱一碗，吃得很饱。
I used to eat hot, dry noodles in their house, 15 yuan a bowl, eat very full.
现在这家店迟迟没开门，估计店主回不来了，不知他们还好不好。
Now the store is late to open, the shopkeeper is not expected to return, I do not know whether they are good.
找不到吃饭的地方，只能饿着肚子回来，在宿舍泡一碗泡面，我已经连吃4天泡面，快吃吐了。
Can not find a place to eat, can only come back hungry, soak a bowl of noodles in the dormitory, I have even eaten 4 days bubble noodles, almost vomit.
▲图/ 视觉中国现在收到的好评是从前的好几倍章杰外卖小哥去年12月底，我刚给电动车换了个新的锂电池，充好电能跑一百多公里。
Chart / Vision China is now getting several times as much praise as it did in the past. At the end of December, I just switched to a new lithium-ion battery for the electric car, charging more than 100 kilometers of electricity.
没过多久，疫情就来了。
It wasn't long before the outbreak came.
我在浙江这边送外卖，那天我一看，也已经700多例了，说实话，心里不慌是不可能的，我们戴的，就一个普通口罩，也没有别的防护措施，还要与各种店家打交道，尤其是昨天刚听说，深圳有个同行也得了这个肺炎，大家交流说，我们进封闭的餐厅取餐，要尽量屏住呼吸，或者在餐厅外面等，哪怕冷一点。
To tell you the truth, it is impossible for us to wear a mask without any other protection, and we have to deal with various shopkeepers, especially since we just heard yesterday that a colleague from Shenzhen also had this pneumonia.
我媳妇就不让我送外卖了，但不送不可能，我们工资是这个月底发上个月的，如果你这个月不干了，就算你自退，五六千块钱工资就没了。
My daughter-in-law won't let me take it out, but it's impossible. We paid last month at the end of this month.
我们老家买的房子还有房贷要还，孩子上学也要钱。
The house we bought in our hometown still has a mortgage to pay back and our children need money to go to school.
而且只要旷工一天，就要罚款，前几天一个哥们罚了400块钱，两天就白干了。
And as long as absenteeism for one day, will be fined, a few days ago a buddy fined 400 yuan, two days in vain.
现在大家买的东西，大部分都是超市生鲜，都是生活必需品。
Most of the things we buy now are fresh from supermarkets and are necessities of life.
我就这样劝我老婆，如果我们不送，别人就得上街出去买，如果家里有小的，还得拖家带口一起出门。
So I advised my wife that if we didn't, people would have to go out and buy, and if they had a small family, they would have to go out with their families.
我们这一个外卖员一天平均要对接20个以上的家庭，如果我们不送，大家都跑出去，那交叉感染的风险更大，所以我们其实也在做好事。
If we don't take out an average of more than 20 families a day, and if we don't, everyone runs out, the risk of cross-infection is greater, so we're actually doing good.
现在送外卖的效率倒是高了不少。
It's a lot more efficient to deliver today.
以前最怕的事情，就是喊半天顾客不出来，尤其是送写字楼的外卖。
The most feared thing before, is to call half a day customers do not come out, especially the delivery of office buildings.
现在大家都在家，而且送到了，也是挂门把手上。
Now everybody was at home, and it was delivered, also on the doorknob.
有些同行回老家了，一时半会回不来，加上我们这几天订单单价也涨了，以前可能4块钱一单，现在最多能有8块钱，赚的钱确实是比以前多了。
Some of our colleagues have gone home and won't be back for a while, and our unit price has gone up over the last few days.
就是太累了，每天我要送到晚上11点，一天的活儿才算完。
I'm just tired. I have to get to 11 every night before my day's work is done.
也有暖心的时候，有一天晚上给人送了两瓶矿泉水，对方把十几块钱零钱都给我了，说是辛苦了，还有人送了我一个口罩，提醒我注意防护，我挺感动的。
There was also a warm heart, one night gave two bottles of mineral water, the other side gave me a dozen yuan change, said it was hard, and someone gave me a mask, remind me to pay attention to the protection, I am very moved.
最让我吃惊的是，在疫情爆发的时期，我的好评率变高了，一天能收到30多个好评，这是以前的好几倍。
What surprised me most was that during the outbreak, my rating was higher, and I received more than 30 positive comments a day, several times more than before.
▲图/ 视觉中国禁红白喜事，村民闹了王维阳基层公务员别人是初十上班，我们大年初二假期就结束了。
Map / visual China ban red and white happy event, the villagers made Wang Weiyang grass-roots civil servants is the tenth day of work, we New Year's Day holiday on the end.
在指挥中心，半个篮球场那么大的办公室，几十个人，每天不能脱口罩，一去就是用酒精和84消毒。
In the command center, an office half the size of a basketball court, dozens of people are not allowed to take off their masks every day.
公务员不能感染，自己防护不到位，谁会相信你。
Civil servants cannot be infected, their own protection is not in place, who will believe you.
这里有几千个从武汉回来的人，也有6起确诊病例。
There are thousands of people returning from Wuhan, and there are also six confirmed cases.
村干部天天拿喇叭去喊，不要出来走动，不要吃酒，不要打牌。
Village cadres take trumpets every day to shout, do not walk out, do not eat wine, do not play cards.
对于那些偏远一点的人家，要一个个打电话。
For those more remote homes, call one after another.
农村最在意的是红白喜事，这也是干部们防护的难点，因为这些事，村民和村干部打架也是有的。
The most important thing in the countryside is the red-and-white festivity, which is also a difficulty for cadres, because there are fights between villagers and village cadres.
有些做丧事的不能办酒，劝他们分餐制，每个人一个盘子。
Some funerals can not run the wine, advise them to divide the meal system, each person a plate.
结婚的很多都推迟了，有一位人家不做酒，但一定要拜个堂，干部通融了一下，结果，马上有邻居打公示的举报电话。
Many marriages have been postponed, a family did not make wine, but must pay a visit to the hall, cadres have been accommodating, as a result, the neighbors immediately called the public call.
举报是经常有的，我也收过短信，一位老乡说看到一辆武汉牌车，请去查查。
Report is often, I also received text messages, a villager said to see a Wuhan brand car, please check.
基层对武汉回乡人的态度是，回来家里的，好好隔离，住在酒店的，劝说他们回家。
The grass-roots attitude towards Wuhan returnees is, back home, good isolation, living in the hotel, persuade them to go home.
每天村医要去重点对象家量体温，对于疑似病例，有专门的医生上门取样，送去市里做确诊。
Every day the village doctor to key home temperature measurement, for suspected cases, a specialized doctor door-to-door sampling, sent to the city for diagnosis.
每天接触来来往往的人，基层干部也不知道去哪买口罩，有些戴着黑口罩，有些戴防霾的，还有棉纱的，单层的，千奇百怪。
Everyday contact with people, grass-roots cadres do not know where to buy masks, some wearing black masks, some wearing haze, cotton yarn, single-story, strange.
一个市里N95才批下8个，有一个干部说，一个一次性口罩他戴了3天。
One municipal N95 approved eight, and one cadre said he wore a disposable mask for three days.
基层工作最怕的是，哪些事情没有想到，导致疫情难控制。
What grass-roots work fears most is, what thing did not think, cause epidemic disease is difficult to control.
我们有专门的督查组，营业场所该关闭的关闭，景区那块也得监督关了。
We have a special inspection team, the business premises should be closed, the scenic spot must be supervised off.
但总有些意想不到的，有的洗脚城外面看不出来，但是你到里面去，还在营业，偷偷摸摸，后来我们查到一个武汉女子在这里上班，她是22号回来的。
However, some of them can not be seen outside the foot wash city, but you go inside, still business, sneaky, and later we found a Wuhan woman working here, she was back on the 22nd.
还有一个搞快递的，也是武汉来的，也送到宾馆了。
There is also a courier, also from Wuhan, also sent to the hotel.
工作很细碎，辛苦，但是做这些是责无旁贷的。
The work is delicate and laborious, but it is incumbent upon you to do so.
邻县有几个干部上报数据不及时，被停职，也有干部因接待过疑似病例被隔离。
Several cadres in neighbouring counties reported delays and were suspended, while others were quarantined for having received suspected cases.
疫情之下，我们都是一个个普通人，都只有一个想法，给家乡带来安全的环境。
Under the epidemic, we are all ordinary people, only one idea, to bring home a safe environment.
▲全国很多地区的公务员都提前结束了春节假期，投入基层防疫工作。
Many parts of the country's civil servants have ended the Spring Festival ahead of schedule, into the work of basic immunization.
图/ 宿迁日报社新浪微博湖北的鸡蛋也没人要了陈华养殖场老总我们公司养了100多万只鸡，一只鸡每天吃二两，就是百余吨饲料。
Photo / Sina Weibo Hubei Hubei eggs also no longer want Chen Hua farm owners our company raised more than 1 million chickens, a chicken a day to eat two or more, that is, more than 100 tons of feed.
湖北封路之后，鸡饲料进不来，不够吃，眼看着鸡不下蛋了。
Hubei closed the road, chicken feed can not enter, not enough to eat, watching the chickens do not lay eggs.
最着急的时候，我们跑到饲料厂门口堵，但外地员工都走了，没人生产，也没用。
The most anxious time, we ran to the gate of the feed factory plug, but the field staff are gone, no one to produce, no use.
好在我在公众号发出求救后，后台留言的很多，有十几个媒体打来电话，反映上去，第二天县里就让饲料原料进来了，但其实，真正的问题才开始。
Fortunately, after the public call, many backstage message, a dozen media call, reflect on, the next day in the county let the feed materials in, but in fact, the real problem began.
原料拉来要加工，国家规定开工延迟。
Raw materials to be processed, the State stipulated that construction delay.
后面我们去呼吁，在保证安全的情况下进行，终于同意复工。
Then we called for it to be carried out safely and finally agreed to resume work.
但人手不够啊，没人敢来上班，包装厂也没人，这些事到现在也没解决好。
But the manpower is insufficient, nobody dares to go to work, the packing factory also nobody, these matters also did not solve to now.
鸡蛋出来后，因为湖北疫情最严重，外地不要湖北的鸡蛋，司机也不愿意送，送到路上就会被人挡着，回不来，还要隔离。
After the eggs come out, because Hubei epidemic situation is the most serious, the field do not want Hubei eggs, drivers do not want to send, on the road will be blocked, unable to return, and quarantine.
现在鸡蛋少量的还在走，剩下的压在家里，也只能压个半个月。
Now a small number of eggs are still walking, the rest of the pressure at home, can only be half a month.
最麻烦的是处理肉鸡。
The most troublesome part is handling broilers.
本来养了60天应该出售，是最好的时机。
This is the best time to sell after 60 days.
你养100天，它吃的从二两涨到十两，光吃不长肉，后面的价值越来越小，有可能还卖不出去。
When you feed for a hundred days, it goes up from two to twelve and doesn't eat much meat. The value of the meat is getting smaller and smaller.
而且现在也没地方养，准备养1000只的地方，等它长得越大，可能只能塞下500只了。
And there's no room for a thousand of them right now, and as it grows larger, it may be able to cram only 500.
湖南的这次禽流感对我们是雪上加霜。
The bird flu in Hunan province has made matters worse for us.
我的小鸡苗，应该送到客户那去，禽流感一来，不能流动。
My chicken seedlings should be sent to the customer. Avian flu is coming. It can't move.
养着鸡苗需要设备、加温，之前没作长期准备，卖不了，我只有埋掉。
Feed chicken seedlings need equipment, heating, before the long-term preparation, can not sell, I have to bury.
埋掉的损失反而是最小的。
The cost of the buried loss is minimal.
确实是无奈，对吧，心情都不好。
Is really helpless, right, the mood is not good.
今年是因为人的疫情，附带的把养殖的麻烦更突出了。
This year, because of the human epidemic, the attendant troubles of farming have become more acute.
对养鸡人的影响是，可能人家明年不养了，我们也担心，到时候鸡蛋和鸡肉会特别贵。
The effect on chicken breeders is that maybe they won't feed them next year, and we worry that eggs and chicken will be especially expensive.
▲因为疫情公路封闭，饲料运不进来，河南省漯河市一个养殖场总经理只得将上万只雏鸡掩埋。
Because the epidemic road was closed and no feed could be brought in, the general manager of a farm in Luohe, Henan Province, had to bury tens of thousands of young chickens.
图/ 网络整形手术少了，但咨询的人多了彭如意 互联网医疗美容我们公司已经做了一年半，是互联网整形方向，和医生合作，相当于做整形医生的经纪公司。
There are fewer plastic surgeries on the Internet, but there are more people consulting PengRui Internet Medical Beauty Our company has been doing Internet plastic surgery for a year and a half, is working with doctors, the equivalent of plastic surgery brokerage companies.
整形还是以年轻人为主，特别是大学生和白领，所以我们行业的两个高峰期，就是寒暑假和五一、十一假期。
Plastic is still mainly young people, especially college students and white-collar workers, so the two peaks of our industry are the winter and summer holidays and the May Day and November holidays.
往年现在这个时候，应该是排满了预约手术单，除夕夜也不例外，现在因为疫情的影响，合作的医生都推迟了手术，到2月10号之后，而且时间都还不能确定。
At this time of year, appointments are supposed to be full, and New Year's Eve is no exception. Now, because of the outbreak, the cooperating doctors have delayed surgery until February 10, and the timing is uncertain.
但同时，找我们来咨询的人更多了一些，我想是因为大家无法出门，相对比较空闲，有时间做功课。
But at the same time, we have more people to consult, I think because people can not go out, relatively free, have time to do homework.
幸好，我们是一家非常小的创业公司，只有6个全职员工，又依托于互联网，在家办公没有问题，只是效率会稍微低一点。
Fortunately, we are a very small start-up company with only six full-time employees, and we rely on the internet. Working from home is not a problem, but it is slightly less efficient.
我们从昨天就开始工作了，到2月10号之前都是线上办公，也不要求大家回北京。
We have been working since yesterday and will be on line until February 10, and we are not required to go back to Beijing.
但现在招人还有融资，进度都很滞后。
But the pace of hiring and financing is lagging behind.
我们从年前就开始准备BP（商业计划书），找有意向的投资人，准备年后就约他们详谈，但现在，只能线上聊，双方都建议说，等到疫情稳定之后再见面。
We have been preparing BP (Business Plan) for years, looking for would-be investors, ready to ask them to talk in detail after the next year, but now we can only talk online, and both sides suggest that we meet after the outbreak has stabilized.
至于公司能不能真的在2月10号开工，我其实是担心的，这个时间我觉得有点早，毕竟北京这种超级大城市，在人员回流之后，疫情能不能控制，还是一件很考验的事情。
As for whether the company can really start work on February 10, I am really worried, this time I think a little early, after all, Beijing such a big city, after all, after the return of people, the epidemic can be controlled, is a very test matter.
可能需要很久，大家才会再出门消费许晔餐饮行业半年前我开始做餐饮的新创业项目，开了3家店，在南昌做广式养生汤馆，一家店有300平的面积，我们花了很多时间经营口碑和产品，本来准备年后继续开新店，拓展市场，但疫情爆发了，对我们这种刚创业的项目打击很大。
It may take a long time before we can go out to spend again. Xu Ye started a new enterprise in catering half a year ago. I opened three stores and worked in Nanchang.
1月22号，农历二十八，我们店就关门了，餐饮业依照政府规定，是必须停业的。
On January 22, the 28th of the lunar calendar, our store closed down and the catering business had to close down in accordance with government regulations.
毕竟人传人有潜伏期，开店是没办法控制这些问题的。
After all, there is an incubation period and there is no way to control these problems.
我的3家店，开销大头主要是房租和人工，因为我们得照常发工资，想保持人员稳定，一个月我们就得亏损18万。
Most of the expenses at my three stores were rent and labor, because we had to pay our usual salaries, and to keep our staff steady, we were losing 180,000 a month.
春节前后是餐饮业的旺季，如果正常营业，3家店能盈利三四十万，所以一进一出，得亏50多万。
Spring Festival is around the peak season in the catering industry, if normal business, three stores can make a profit of 3.4 million, so into a loss of more than half a million.
我们还是刚创业，像西贝那种大型连锁餐饮业，一个月就得亏上千万。
We are still a start-up, like the big restaurant chain Sebei, a month to lose tens of millions of dollars.
我们一个门店20多个员工，总共六七十人，员工都包住宿，不过我们年前就让员工都放假回家，没有留在宿舍，本来是准备初三回来上班，现在大家都在家休息，也不让回宿舍，不然管理成本更高。
We had more than 20 employees in one shop, 60 or 70 in all, but we had them all go home for vacation a year ago. We didn't stay in the dorm. We were supposed to be back for the third day of junior high school.
我有个朋友的员工住在宿舍，不仅得发口罩消毒液，安排人值班，还要发奖金安抚，让他们别出门。
One of my friend's employees lived in the dorm, not only had to wear masks and disinfectant, but also arranged to have people on duty and be reassured not to go out.
我们也考虑过送外卖，好处当然会有，比如制造些品牌记忆，人员有事做比较稳定，但弊端更大，因为工作人员都聚集在一起，万一有一个人感染了，就很麻烦，毕竟做采购或是外送，都不得不暴露在外面。
We've also looked at takeout and the benefits are of course there are brand memories, people doing things that are more stable, but the drawbacks are even greater, because staff get together and in case one person gets infected, it's troublesome, after all, to do the shopping or the delivery, all of which have to be outside.
所以我们作为企业主，为员工考虑，还是得慎重。
So we as business owners, for the sake of employees, still have to be careful.
而且外卖的量如果不大，也没法覆盖人力成本，是救不了一家餐厅的。
And if the volume of take-out is not large, nor can it cover the cost of manpower, it will not save a restaurant.
这几年实体行业的流动和储备资金都不多，大家都在熬，我也本来期待2020年或是2021年会回暖，但这次疫情，对很多实体行业都有致命打击，大家都做的是现金流生意，那就不能断现金。
There has been little liquidity or reserve capital in the real sector in recent years, and I would have expected a recovery in 2020 or 2021, but the epidemic is a fatal blow to many real industries, and everyone is in cash-flow business, so cash cannot be cut off.
而且可能有的一年到头赚不到什么钱，只能靠春节，但这次疫情就爆发在春节，我们餐饮业的黄金阶段，我们很多都是挣一两个月的钱，跟供应商结算一次，那如果谁倒闭了，就会影响很多人。
And there may be no money to make all the year round, only the Spring Festival, but this outbreak of the Spring Festival, our catering industry in the golden stage, many of us are a month or two of money, settlement with suppliers, then if who fails, will affect many people.
但我还是很乐观，这次疫情让餐饮业停滞，对大家都是一样的，那之后就统一回到起跑线。
But I am optimistic that the epidemic will bring the restaurant industry to a standstill, for everyone, and then unify back to the starting line.
还是得思考积极些。
Think positively, though.
而且相比于中大型餐饮企业，我们受影响程度相对小，半年不开店也能承受。
And compared to large and medium-sized catering enterprises, we are affected by a relatively small degree, half a year can not afford to open a shop.
本来我年后已经拿了3个店，准备拓展新店，但现在也只能先搁置。
Originally I had taken 3 stores after year, ready to expand the new store, but now also can only shelve.
如果疫情得到有效控制，门店可以2月开店，但我估计得有半年影响，大家可能才会慢慢和之前一样出来消费。
If the epidemic is contained effectively, stores can open stores in February, but I estimate that it will take six months for everyone to come out and spend as much as they did before.
在疫情爆发之前，我就在考虑做一些快销的养生汤产品，可以让大家带回家做的，我们传统行业还是得变化，如果门店不能经营，那得考虑其它造血方式。
Before the outbreak, I was thinking of making some quick-selling health-care soups that you could take home, our traditional industries would have to change, and if the stores didn't work, we'd have to think about other ways to make blood.
现在大家都在哭可怜，有一些悲观发言，我不喜欢这样，我更觉得这是一个储备力量的时期。
I don't like the way everyone is crying these days, there's some pessimism, I don't like it, and I think it's a time of reserve.
就像有创业者说希望房东这个月不收房租，我就不同意，房东也是在做投资生意，也承担了很多风险，这个要求不合道理，不能道德绑架嘛。
Just like the entrepreneur who said he hoped the landlord would not charge rent this month, I don't agree. The landlord is in the investment business and has taken many risks.
大家还是应该想着自救，把企业做好，不是把困难转嫁给第三者。
We should still think of self-help, to do a good job of enterprises, not to pass on the difficulties to a third party.
▲按照政府规定，餐饮业是必须停业的。
According to the government, the catering industry must close down.
图/ 网络我们被困住，只能先保命，活下来万国英 青苑书店老板我们书店是1992年开的，到现在已经28年了。
Our bookstore was opened in 1992, and it is now 28 years since we started our bookstore.
几天前，我给一个微信号文章取标题，“请不要让我冻毙于风雪”，我这绝不是夸张，这次疫情是我们书店28年来遭遇的最大一次危机。
A few days ago, I titled a microsignal article, "Please don't let me freeze to snow." I am not exaggerating. This is the biggest crisis we have had in 28 years in our bookstore.
大年三十那天我们书店就关门了，往常是大年初二开门，但现在书店都没办法营业，线上经营也很难，员工没法上班，仓库也没人，物流不是停运就是特别贵。
On New Year's Day, our bookstore closed. Usually, it is open on the second day of New Year. But now the bookstore is not open, the online operation is difficult, the employees are unable to work and the warehouse is empty.
青苑员工人数51人，青苑门店两个，一个312平方米，另外一个806平米，还有2000多平米的配送物流仓库，为江西省内200多家客户配送图书和提供专业服务。
Qingyuan has 51 staff, two shops in Qingyuan, one 312 square meters, another 806 square meters, and more than 2,000 square meters of distribution logistics warehouses, which distribute books and provide professional services to more than 200 customers in Jiangxi Province.
如果是正常营业，我200多家渠道书店的现金流，也有三四百万，但现在这些都断掉了。
If it is normal business, I more than 200 channels bookstore cash flow, but now these are broken.
书店关张后没有其他资金来源，基本房租和员工工资必须付，现有资金最多维持2个月，因为2019年12月是供应商考核付款高峰，一月放假前又是员工工资和奖金发放高峰，所以账上基本上没留多少现金。
There are no other sources of funding for the closure of the bookshop, basic rent and staff salaries have to be paid, and the funds available will last for up to two months, as there is little cash left on the books because December 2019 is the peak for vendor payments and before the January holiday there is a peak in staff salaries and bonuses.
所以这一两个月，对我们非常困难，没有盈利，光一个月支出得有四五十万，书店利润微薄，现金流也不多，勉强维持基本开销。
So this month or two has been very difficult for us, unprofitable, with a monthly outlay of four and a half million dollars, a meager profit for the bookstore and a meagre cash flow to cover basic expenses.
疫情拖的时间越长，对我们的压力越大，而且2月10号开业之后，肯定还有一段时间才能够恢复。
The longer the outbreak continues, the more pressure will be placed on us, and it is certain that it will take some time to recover from the opening of the epidemic on 10 February.
2003年非典我们也经历过，那时候管控不是很严格，可以开店，也有书友买书，没有现在这么大影响。
We also experienced SARS in 2003, when controls were not so strict that shops could be opened and booksellers could buy books.
但这次很严重，除了新华书店之外，很多书店都受到致命打击。
But this time very serious, in addition to Xinhua bookstore, many bookstores have been fatally hit.
很多民营书店业务单一，仅仅依赖图书销售维持日常运转，而疫情所导致的图书销量下滑几乎是断崖式的，再加上大多数民营书店都要负担高昂的房租、店租以及人力成本，抵御风险能力弱。
Many private bookstores are monolithic, relying solely on book sales to sustain their daily operations, and the decline in book sales caused by the epidemic is almost precipitous, coupled with the high rents, store rents and human costs that most private bookstores face, making them less resilient to risk.
江西做人文社科的书店，我们是最好的，28年我们也积累了很多老客户，前几天我们对书友读者推出了充值购书卡，可以稍微缓解下现金流问题，但也只是维持门店这一块。
In the past 28 years, we have accumulated a lot of regular customers. The last few days, we have introduced the repayable book card to our readers, which can alleviate the cash flow problem a little, but only maintain the shop.
而且之后也不可能一直靠书友，靠情怀，还是得有自身造血能力，我们在去年就加大了少儿板块的建设，也在接城市书房和公共图书馆的项目，来弥补门店销售经营的困境。
And after that it is impossible to rely on book friends, rely on sentiment, or have their own hematopoietic capacity, we have increased the construction of the children's section last year, also in the city study and public library projects to make up for the difficulties of store sales.
我更担心的是疫情之后的影响，很多书，比如教辅，很多都转向线上卖了，会更加促成线上购书的趋势。
I'm more worried about the aftermath of the epidemic, where many books, like teaching aids, are sold online, fueling the trend.
而且之后出版社要回笼资金，把货尽快卖出去，估计又会通过各种打折来收回成本，这些对我们都是很不利的。
And then the publishers will keep the money back, sell the goods as soon as possible, and expect to recoup costs through various discounts, which are very detrimental to us.
去年底实体书店整体的状况就不是很好，今年开年又碰上疫情，我们就被困在那里，一点办法也没有，只能先保命，活下来。
By the end of last year, the overall state of the physical bookstore is not very good, this year began to hit an epidemic, we were trapped there, there is nothing to do, can only save lives.
▲冷清的书店。
The lonely bookstore.
图/ 视觉中国基层人员都在超负荷运转王安 浙江省公务员我从初一就开始工作了。
Map / Vision Chinese grass-roots personnel are overloaded running Wang'an Zhejiang civil servants I began to work from the first day of junior high school.
因为我是单位办公室副主任，这种春节加班的事情肯定要我们牵头，我们先上，然后是其他人，初四就要求所有公务员到岗，开始工作。
Because I am the unit office deputy director, this kind of Chinese New Year overtime matter certainly wants us to take the lead, we go first, then others, the fourth day of junior high school all civil servants to arrive at work.
我们稍微好一点，本来要求明天复工，但昨晚上深夜发通知，要求所有机关事业单位开始轮流值班，暂时没有恢复时间。
We were a little better off and had asked to be back at work tomorrow, but late last night a notice was sent asking all authorities and institutions to begin shift duty, and there was no time to resume.
春节加班不是忙其它，得统计春节返乡返工情况，我们单位200多人，初一就开始摸排了，但上面形势变化很快，初一先是摸排接触武汉的，后来疫情接触史扩大到温州和台州。
Spring Festival overtime is not busy other, we have to count the Spring Festival homecoming rework, our unit more than 200 people, the first day began to feel platoon, but the situation changed quickly, first contact Wuhan, then the epidemic contact history expanded to Wenzhou and Taizhou.
我基本上这几天每天会去单位 ，电话联络、填报表、汇总，有时候一天几个小时就能完成，有时候一直忙到晚上10点，还得转发文件、起草通知。
I basically go to work every day for a few days, call me, fill in forms, summarize, sometimes a few hours a day, sometimes until 10 p. m., and have to forward documents and draft notices.
去公司的时候还是有点担心，但我都是开车去单位，办公室房间也就我一个人，就觉得稍微放心些。
I was still a little worried when I went to the office, but I drove to the office. I was alone in the office room and felt a little relieved.
现在我们已经把从温州过来的人员，等同于湖北过来的人员了。
Now we have come from Wenzhou, equivalent to the personnel from Hubei.
看前天的数据，温州是全国除湖北外新冠肺炎确诊人数最多的城市，超过了湖北很多县市。
Looking at the data the day before yesterday, Wenzhou is the city with the highest number of confirmed cases of pneumonia except Hubei, more than many counties in Hubei Province.
温州在武汉做生意的人多，武汉封城后，还有1.8万武汉人回温州，乐清是温州的重灾区 ，我一个在街道的朋友，他们半夜开会，一早上8点钟召集，然后每个小区逐户排查，找遗漏的接触者，街道基本上从年底开始就没休息了，没有过年的概念。
Wuhan after the closure of Wuhan, there are 18,000 Wuhan people back to Wenzhou, Yueqing is the Wenzhou disaster area, I a friend in the street, they meet in the middle of the night, 8 o'clock in the morning, then every community house-by-house search, missing contacts, the streets have been almost since the end of the year, no concept of Spring Festival.
我们这种单位还好，主要还是职能部门在忙，尤其是基层的，交通、卫生，医务人员大年三十就接到休假取消通知了。
Our kind of unit is good, mainly in the functional departments are busy, especially at the grass-roots level, transportation, health, medical personnel received the 30-year-old leave cancellation notice.
基层都超负荷运转，浙江桐乡市一个街道 ，漏了1个武汉回来的患者，街道和社区的3名领导都被问责。
The grass roots were overloaded, and a street in Tongxiang, Zhejiang Province, left out a patient who had returned from Wuhan, and three leaders of the streets and communities were held accountable.
在温州的家人前天收到消息说，街道要在小区进行地毯式排查，登记身份证号和人员去向，这样的排查，至少得持续5天，基层公务员压力大，工作量更大，公务员听政府安排也是职责所在，春节加班之后也会给予调休，但真正辛苦的可能是基层社区一些编外人员。
Family members in Wenzhou received news the day before yesterday that street-level carpet checks, registration of identity numbers and the whereabouts of people would last for at least five days. Grass-roots civil servants are under pressure, their workload is greater, civil servants are subject to government arrangements and are granted breaks after the Spring Festival, but the real hardship may be some non-staff personnel in the grassroots community.
不工作的时间，窝在家里也只能围着孩子转，还是羡慕没有小孩的，有了孩子，就很怕这些动荡，很希望能够快些控制住疫情，生活还是平淡安稳些好。
Do not work time, nest in the home can only around the children, or envy no children, have children, are afraid of these upheavals, very much like to be able to control the epidemic quickly, life is still a little better.
我们积攒的情绪，都反应在股市上查非股民2020年春节过后的第一个A股交易日原本应该是1月31日，因为疫情的缘故，改了一个日子。
Our accumulated emotions are reflected in the stock market survey after the 2020 Spring Festival non-share trading day should have been January 31, because of the epidemic, changed a date.
我怕自己忘了新日期，还特意记在了日历上，后来发现这根本是多余的操心——2月3号发生的一切，都让你难以忘记，这是新年后的第一个交易日。
I was afraid I'd forgotten the new date and put it on the calendar, only to discover later that it was an unnecessary worry - the first trading day since February 3, which you can't forget.
股市一如既往地在早上9点开始集合竞价，等到9点半开盘。
As usual, the stock market began to bid at 9: 00 a.m. and waited until 9: 30.
过去大部分时候，这意味着未知的开始，谁也说不准是会一定涨还是一定跌，但这一天早上，几乎所有人都知道了答案。
For much of the past, it meant the beginning of the unknown, and no one was sure whether it would rise or fall, but this morning almost everyone knew the answer.
电视的股评节目，推送的财经评论，就连银行里的理财经理都会用连续刷屏朋友圈预警告诉你，今天一定会大跌。
TV reviews, financial commentary, even the bank's money managers will tell you with a continuous scrubbing circle of friends that it will fall today.
中国股民可能是全世界最有趣的投资者，他们有着独特的幽默。
Chinese shareholders, perhaps the most interesting investors in the world, have a unique sense of humor.
开盘之前有人说，连熔断都见过了，今天还能有什么？结果，仅在集合竞价的时候就有超过3000支股票跌停，开盘沪深两市大跌，全天交易都维持在三千多支股票齐跌。
As a result, there were more than 3,000 shares trading at the time of the auction alone, the two cities fell sharply in Shanghai and Shenzhen, and all-day trading remained at more than 3,000 shares.
上证指数较节前最后一个交易日跌7.72%，创下2015年8月以来的最大单日跌幅。
The Shanghai index fell 7.72 per cent on the last day of the session, its biggest one-day drop since August 2015.
这意味着不管你是追指数还是追个股，自选栏里多半都得是绿色的亏损。
This means that no matter whether you're chasing indexes or stocks, you're going to have green losses in most of your selections.
我一直觉得，股市是揭示人性反应的实验室，它体现出一种最诚实的市场情绪。
I have always felt that the stock market is a laboratory for revealing human reactions, and it embodies one of the most honest market sentiments.
从春节前到第一个工作日之间的十天，人们因为新冠肺炎疫情所积攒的恐惧、不安、焦虑、绝望，都在这一天体现在了资本市场上。
The 10 days between Spring Festival and the first working day are the days of fear, anxiety, anxiety and despair that people have accumulated as a result of the outbreak of pneumonia in the capital markets.
电台节目主持人说，今天的主题就是“消化我们的恐慌情绪”。
The radio presenter said today's theme was "digesting our fears."
然而，就算是吃亏的日子，依然会有一些好消息。
However, even in bad times, there will be some good news.
主营实验室耗材和口罩的上市公司在这一天大涨，云办公和在线教育板块也在红盘运行。
The main laboratory supplies and masks listed on the day rose, cloud office and online education section also running the red disk.
有绝望的时候，也会有希望。
When there is despair, there is hope.
我想起了股市分析的技术层面有一个定义，在代表交易状况的K线图里，当持续下跌的底部出现十字星形状，就意味着一切会好转起来，要见底回升了。
I think of a definition of the technical side of stock market analysis, where a K-chart of trading conditions shows a cross-star shape at the bottom of a continuing decline, which means that everything will pick up and bottom up.
它被称为“希望之星”。
It is called the "Star of Hope."
今天我们还没有人说得出，这个十字星会什么时候出现，但在历来的每一次谷底，它总是会出现。
No one today can say when this cross will come, but it will come at the bottom of every trough of history.
▲2月3日A股收盘后，数据显示，当日有超过九成股票跌停。
February 3 A shares closed, the data showed that more than 90% of the stock limit.
图/金融行业网微信公众号（文中部分采访对象为化名）每人互动疫情带给你的影响是怎样的？文章为每日人物原创侵权必究。
/ [^ # 39 ^ # 39 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 105 ^ # 116] / n. What is the impact of each interactive epidemic on you?
每人作者。
Author per person.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎阴影下，十个普通人的烦恼。
In the shadow of pneumonia, the troubles of ten ordinary people.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "每日人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
var msg_title = "肺炎阴影下，十个普通人的烦恼";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by ten ordinary people in the shadow of pneumonia.
var msg_desc = "他们经历的一切，也是我们正在经历的。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; and what they have experienced is what we are experiencing.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="每日人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; everyday & quot;.
