疫区救援，我在武汉修汽车。
Rescue in epidemic areas, I repair cars in Wuhan.
林森菜 李仪。
Linson's Plum.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
疫情期间，武汉市公共交通停运，且限制了中心区域机动车通行。
During the epidemic, public transportation in Wuhan was suspended and restricted the movement of motor vehicles in the central region.
对于在这个特殊时期有出行需求的防疫、救援人员们而言，汽车救援是他们此刻的“刚需”。
For the special period of travel needs of vaccination, rescue workers, car rescue is their "just need" at the moment.
武汉城内，数十名汽修人组成了一个紧急救援服务队，提供免费汽车救援服务。
In Wuhan, dozens of auto repairmen formed an emergency rescue team to provide free car rescue services.
他们穿梭在空旷的武汉街道上，在特殊时期，为武汉的基本出行提供着支持，见证了这座城市静默中蛰伏的冷暖世事。
They shuttled through the empty streets of Wuhan, providing support for basic trips in Wuhan during special periods and witnessing the city's dormant warmth and coldness.
临时救援等待救援期间，车主给卢顺打了3通电话，催问他们到哪里了、何时能到。
Interim rescue waiting for rescue, the owner of Lu Shun made three phone calls, to ask them where and when they arrived.
对修车技师卢顺和刘长根来说，这样的电话常有，只不过这次救援要横跨的路程确实远，从位于武汉市洪山区八一花园的途虎养车工场店出发，行驶30多公里进入江汉区，车程1小时，本不是他们门店服务的区域。
For repair technicians Lu Shun and Liu Changgen, such phone calls are common, but the rescue effort is indeed a long way off, starting from the Taohu workshop in 81 Garden, Hongshan District, Wuhan, and travelling more than 30 kilometers into Jianghan District, an hour's drive away from the area they serve.
那是1月26日，中国农历大年初二。
It was January 26, the second day of the Chinese New Year.
刘长根和卢顺在30公里外的江汉区晋合金桥世家小区找到了故障车和焦急的车主。
Liu Changgen and Lu Shun found the broken-down car and anxious owner in the Jin alloy bridge family area of Jianghan district 30 kilometers away.
20分钟后，故障排除，车主连声道谢，隔着口罩，声音闷闷的。
20 minutes later, troubleshooting, the owner said thank you, through the mask, voice muffled.
如非特殊时期，他们不必走这么远。
They would not have had to go so far had it not been for extraordinary periods.
刘长根和卢顺是临时被同事发到工作群里的求助信息叫过来的。
Liu Changgen and Lu Shun are temporary colleagues sent to the work group to call for help.
春节假期，疫情在武汉蔓延，许多汽修门店在1月23日前已经关门停业。
During the Spring Festival, the epidemic spread in Wuhan, with many auto repair shops shut down by January 23.
车主是一名武汉协和医院ICU病房的医生，找到卢顺和刘长根之前，他联系了多家汽修店，连保险公司的电话都打过去求助了，都没有结果。
Before finding Lu Shun and Liu Changgen, the owner, a doctor in the ICU ward of Wuhan Concorde Hospital, contacted several auto repair shops and even the insurance company called for help, to no avail.
直到通过私人关系找到途虎养车的一名员工，他的求助才得到回应。
It wasn't until one of the employees who found the tiger through a personal relationship that he got a response.
和普通武汉市民一样，出于特殊时期防护需要，卢顺和刘长根的防护装备是N95口罩。
Like ordinary Wuhan city residents, Lu Shun and Liu Changgen's protective equipment is N95 mask for special time protection needs.
卢顺记得，那名医生车主见他俩只戴一层口罩，比他们两人还紧张，嘱咐了几次：这几天到处去修车一定要穿防护服。
Lu Shun recalled that the doctor's owner saw that they were wearing only one mask, more nervous than the two of them, and told them several times to go around these days to repair the car and be sure to wear protective clothing.
卢顺想起他们找到那辆故障车时，医生正拿着一个喷瓶往自己身上喷消毒水，或许这也是医生保护他和刘长根的举动，卢顺想。
Lu Shun remembered that when they found the broken car, the doctor was squirting disinfectant on himself with a spray bottle. Maybe that's what the doctor did to protect him and Liu Changgen, Lu Shun thought.
修好车时，那医生拿着喷瓶想给卢顺的手喷一喷消毒，卢顺觉得自己手脏，没好意思接受，摆摆手拒绝了。
When repairing the car, the doctor with a spray bottle to LuShun's hand spray disinfect, LuShun felt his hands dirty, no good acceptance, waved to refuse.
在刘长根和卢顺结束这次紧急救援之前，类似求助已经屡屡发生。
Before Liu Changgen and Lu Shun end this emergency relief, such help has repeatedly occurred.
有的货车停在了进入武汉的高速路旁，修车技工甚至需要徒步数公里，耗时数小时绕野路到高速路上，找到故障货车，修好后返程。
Some of the trucks stopped at the highway to Wuhan, and even the mechanic had to walk several kilometers and take hours to bypass the highway to find a broken-down truck and get back on the road.
受访者供图 | 卢顺维修半路故障的车辆在那之后，留守武汉城的数十名从事与汽修有关工作的人，组成了一支紧急救援服务队，队伍成员均是汽车养护服务平台“途虎养车”在武汉的员工。
Since then, dozens of people left behind in Wuhan have worked with auto repair workers to form an emergency rescue service team, all of whom are employees at Wuhan who have served as a platform for vehicle maintenance services.
留守武汉的刘长根和卢顺自然也加入了其中。
Liu Changgen and Lu Shun, who stayed behind in Wuhan, naturally joined the group.
花了2天时间，汽修志愿者们的维修用车顺利申请了通行证，并在1月31日前，领到了总公司从上海寄出的防护服和护目镜等全套防护装备。
It took two days for the volunteers to apply for permits for their repair cars, and by January 31 they received full sets of protective equipment, including protective clothing and goggles from their home office in Shanghai.
紧急救援服务队张倩是这支紧急救援服务队中的“统筹”，17名客服每天通过热线会接到30-40单求助，全部由张倩回电话确认情况后，分配到临近区域的志愿队员手上。
Emergency Relief Team (ESS) Zhang Qian is the "co-ordinator" of the emergency rescue service team. Each day, 17 service users will receive 30-40 calls through the hotline.
在张倩看来，武汉的公交停运后，汽修人开始“紧缺”。
In Zhang Qian's view, Wuhan after the bus stop, auto repair people began to "scarce."
1月23日武汉公共交通暂停后，医务人员主要通过私家车或出租车、网约车通勤。
After the suspension of Wuhan public transport on January 23, medical staff mainly through private cars or taxis, network commuting.
1月26日0时，武汉市的中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理，除经许可的车辆，其它车辆不能上路。
At 0000 hours on January 26, motor vehicles were banned in the central urban area of Wuhan city.
这意味着通过租车和网约车出行也已经行不通，一些有条件的医护人员，把闲置的私家车开出来通勤。
This means that car rentals and car rentals are no longer available, and that some qualified health-care workers drive idle private cars out to work.
也有热心市民组成爱心车队，义务接送有需要的医护人员。
There is also a team of interested members of the public who volunteer to transport medical staff in need.
与大部分汽修店铺关门相对应，每天路上那么多防疫工作车辆在外行驶，轮胎、电瓶等如果发生故障，无法及时维修，就会影响抗疫人员到岗。
In contrast to the majority of auto repair shops closed, so many epidemic prevention work vehicles on the road every day, if the tire, battery failure, can not be repaired in time, will affect the anti-epidemic personnel on duty.
1995年出生的技师卢顺是家中独子。
Lu Shun, a technician born in 1995, was the only child in the family.
得知他参加了紧急救援服务队，卢顺的父母每天至少给他打来3次视频通话，关心他的状况。
Knowing that he was on the emergency services team, LuShun's parents called him at least three times a day on video to care about his condition.
每天，卢顺要量两次体温，上班一次、下班一次。
Every day, Lu Shun to take two temperature, work once, off work once.
他不会在刚到店时马上量体温，因为有一次路上风大，体表温度降低，测量结果不准。
He doesn't take his temperature immediately upon arrival, because once it was windy and the surface temperature dropped, and the results were inaccurate.
测完体温后，他会穿上防护服再跟家里视频一会，暗示父母自己有严谨的防护措施，请他们放心。
After measuring his temperature, he will put on protective clothing and video with home for a while, suggesting that their parents have strict protective measures, please rest assured.
卢顺只有24岁，在平时，他在店里算大哥哥。
Lu Shun is only 24 years old. In ordinary times, he is a big brother in the shop.
但春节只有“老板”刘长根和卢顺留守，卢顺一下成了小辈。
But the Spring Festival only "boss" Liu Changgen and Lu Shun stay behind, Lu Shun has become a junior.
“老板”刘长根把他照顾得很好。
"Boss" Liu Changgen took good care of him.
以往喜爱“过早”的武汉，许多早点摊眼下不出摊了，卢顺每天去的早点摊也是。
In the past like "early" Wuhan, many breakfast stands now do not stand, Lu Shun every day to the early stall is also.
第一天回到只有他们俩的店里，刘长根给他煮了一大碗饺子，招呼他去吃，往后的每天也都如此。
On the first day he went back to the shop where they were alone. Liu Changgen cooked him a big bowl of dumplings and asked him to eat it every day.
使命感是不知不觉中滋长起来的。
A sense of mission grows up unconsciously.
另一位队员李昌说，成天闷在防护服里做体力活，需要耗费多于以往的体力。
Another player, Li Chang, said it took more physical strength to spend all day in protective clothing.
体力流失的时候，心里的能量却在增加：“穿上了防护服，知道我们能为他们做点事的时候，我就觉得很有存在感。
As the physical strength drains, the mental energy increases: "When I put on my protective clothing and know that we can do something for them, I feel like I have a sense of existence.
”老家在山东泰安的李斌，因为疫情，与妻子取消了返乡的计划，这意味着他放弃了一年一次与父母、孩子相见的机会。
Li Bin, whose hometown is in Taian, Shandong Province, cancelled plans to return home with his wife because of the outbreak, which meant he gave up meeting his parents and children once a year.
这个健谈的年轻人、老师傅，语带自豪地说起自己科班出身的背景。
The talkative young man, the old master, spoke proudly of his background.
16岁时，他进入职业技术学院学汽修，老师都是军队专业的教官，严谨又严厉。
At the age of 16, he went to a vocational and technical college to study auto mechanics, all of whom were army instructors, strict and strict.
他至今坚守军队出身的教官教给他的：“任何一颗螺丝都不能丢弃，螺丝就是你的战友，也是你手里的武器，你把它丢了，你自己的命都没了。
No screw can be discarded. The screw is your comrade-in-arms, and it is your weapon. You have lost it and your life is gone.
”李斌猜，教官是想告诉他，如果一颗螺丝如果没有紧固到位，都可能危及客户的生命财产安全，你也会受到相应的惩罚。
Li Bin guessed that the instructor wanted to tell him that if a screw was not secured in place, it could endanger the customer's life and property, and you would be punished accordingly.
李斌把这点纳入店内验收的准则，形容它“说简单也简单，说难也难”。
Li Bin put this into the in-store acceptance criteria, describing it as "simple to say and difficult to say."
简单是因为只要从接车开始，每一步骤工作到位，不要一看不重要的地方螺丝就不装回去了，就不会多出螺丝。
Simply because as long as you start to pick up the car, each step is in place, do not look at the unimportant place screws will not be installed back, there will be no more screws.
“难”，是因为只要从一开始松懈，再想找补就很繁琐。
"Difficult", because as long as from the beginning to relax, and then look for repair is very cumbersome.
李斌一直期待遇到这样一辆车，它在别的地方被修过，李斌拆开它，会发现它每颗螺丝都没缺。
Li Bin has been looking forward to such a car, it has been repaired elsewhere, Li Bin opened it, it will find that every screw is not missing.
在李斌看来，这代表着世界上存在同类，一个修车不落一颗螺丝的同行。
In Li Bin's view, this represents the existence of the same kind in the world, a repair car does not fall a screw companion.
受访者供图 | 救援服务队队员在工作中无论是李昌、李斌还是卢顺，在救援时都发现，在眼下的武汉城，汽修零部件紧缺，特别是电瓶。
The rescue workers at Ranger, whether Li Chang, Li Bin or Lu Shun, found that there was a shortage of auto parts, especially batteries, in Wuhan today.
汽车靠电瓶发动，汽车上所有电路元器件的正常运转也靠它控电。
The car is powered by a battery, which controls the normal operation of all the electrical components of the car.
如果电瓶坏了得不到维修，汽车无法启动。
If the battery breaks down and cannot be repaired, the car cannot start.
由于不同车型的汽车使用的型号不同，加上零部件供应商停工停产，在汽修志愿者这几日的记忆中，武汉城里电瓶难求。
Wuhan city battery is hard to find in the memory of the auto repair volunteers these days because of the different models used in different models and the shutdown of parts suppliers.
一次，为了等张倩从全武汉的门店里找到匹配的电瓶，李昌等了一个多小时，是修车耗时的两倍。
Once, in order to wait for Zhang Qian to find the matching battery from the door store in Wuhan, Li Chang waited for more than an hour, twice as long as the repair time.
这种难处不为外人所知晓，还发生过些误会，让卢顺觉得很无力。
This difficulty is not known to outsiders, there have also been some misunderstanding, let LuShun feel very weak.
那是一位在一线工作多日的医生，准备开车回家休息时发现车子打不着火，联系到紧急救援服务队求援。
It was a doctor who had been working on the front lines for days and was going to drive home to rest when he found his car unable to fire and contacted the Emergency Services for help.
那位医生所开的别克车，电瓶自带启停功能，武汉当地没货。
The doctor drove the Buick, battery with stop-and-start function, Wuhan local not available.
为了帮助医生尽快解决问题，卢顺最终在朋友的库存里找到一台。
To help the doctor solve the problem as soon as possible, Lu Shun finally found one in his friend's inventory.
虽然不是原装的电瓶，但是卢顺认为特殊时期，在保证安全的情况下，应该尽快帮医生修好车。
Although not the original battery, but LuShun believes that the special period, in order to ensure safety, should help doctors repair the car as soon as possible.
谁知道坏运气接二连三。
Who knows bad luck after bad luck?
这次又碰到临出发去取电瓶时，卢顺的电动车耗尽电量。
This time came to the imminent departure to get the battery, LuShun's electric vehicles ran out of electricity.
他只能打电话让老板刘长根来接送，来回耽搁了一下，光取电瓶就花了三个小时。
He had to call his boss, Liu Changgen, to pick him up and down. It took him three hours to get the battery.
电瓶拿到后，卢顺和医生解释：虽然不是原装电瓶，但是可以使用。
After the battery was taken, Lu Shun and the doctor explained that although it was not the original battery, it could be used.
但是医生担心不是原装会有其它影响，表示暂时先不维修。
But the doctor worried that the original dress would not have any other effects and said it would not be repaired for now.
费尽九牛二虎之力之后，却没能解决问题，卢顺心里很无力。
After all his efforts, but failed to solve the problem, LuShun heart is very weak.
他问刘长根，为什么会这样？刘长根只能简短地安慰他：物资紧缺，货都进不来，这也是没办法的事情。
He asked Liu Changgen why this is so? Liu Changgen can only briefly comfort him: supplies are scarce, goods can not enter, this is no way to do.
然后刘长根只好载着他打道回府了。
Then Liu Changgen had to drive him home.
等候救援的人们李斌服务的区域覆盖火神山医院建筑工地，雷神山医院不在其中。
Waiting for rescue people Li Bin services the area covered by the building site of Mount Fukuyama Hospital, Lui Shenshan Hospital is not among them.
一次阴差阳错，一个雷神山医院的求助单被派到他手上。
On one occasion, a request for help from a Raytheon Mountain hospital was sent to him.
他没有拒绝，驱车前往，到了施工工地才发现，车主是一名拄着双拐的年轻人。
He did not refuse, drove to the construction site only to find that the owner is a young man on crutches.
年轻人告诉他，为了能自主出行，他在车管所备案后对汽车的油门和刹车做了一些改装。
The young man told him that in order to be able to travel on his own, he had made some modifications to the throttle and brakes of his car after filing at the DMV.
“没有想到肢体有残疾的年轻人，都会来支援雷神山医院的建设。
"Without thinking of physically handicapped young people will come to support the construction of Lei Shenshan Hospital.
”这让李斌很受触动，临走时，他没忍住多说了几句，让对方注意身体安全。
"Li Bin was so touched that when he left, he couldn't resist making a few more comments to make sure his partner was physically safe.
紧急救援服务队的救援也并非来者不拒。
The rescue team was not a holdout.
“我们知道目前为了控制疫情，最怕市民到处跑。
"We know that people are most afraid to go anywhere in order to control the epidemic.
”张倩说。
"said Zhang Qian.
所以，如果你没有上路许可证，也没有相关工作证件，就很有可能被张倩“劝退”。
So, if you don't have a travel permit and relevant work documents, you are likely to be "dissuaded" by Zhang Qian.
“我们会告知客户，目前交警提示不允许私家车上路，建议您在家减少出门，如果真的有紧急出行的需求，可以跟社区联系，因为现在政府在每一个社区都安排了5到6辆社区保障车。
"We will inform our customers that at present, private cars are not allowed to go on the road. We recommend that you reduce your trips at home. If there is a real need for emergency travel, you can contact the community, as the Government now has five to six community guarantee vehicles in each community.
”张倩说。
"said Zhang Qian.
也有例外。
There are exceptions.
因为即便面对突如其来的疫情，有一些人也不得不想办法冒险外出。
Because even in the face of a sudden outbreak, some people have to find a way to venture out.
2月4日的下午，刘长根外出取物资时，店里来了个男人，他的汽车轮胎漏气，着急地说妻子要生了，想让卢顺把车修好。
On the afternoon of Feb. 4, while Liu Changgen was out fetching supplies, a man came into the shop. His car tires were leaking and he said anxiously that his wife was going to have a baby.
但是紧急救援服务队一般除了指派的紧急订单，其它的单不接，加上武汉特殊时期的机动车行驶规定，让卢顺很为难。
But the emergency rescue team generally in addition to the assigned emergency orders, other single do not connect, and Wuhan special period of the motor vehicle driving rules, so LuShun very difficult.
“武汉现在没有营运车在载客，他打不了车。
Wuhan does not have a running car to carry passengers. He cannot get a taxi.
如果因为这个，他的妻子或者孩子最后因为没有条件生产出现状况……我想到这个就觉得害怕，害怕那种可能会来的愧疚感。
If that's why his wife or child ends up in a situation where they don't have the means to produce... I'm afraid of that, I'm afraid of the guilt that might come.
”卢顺说，当时，一些血腥的画面控制不住地冒出来，卢顺害怕它们成为现实。
"Lu Shun said that at the time, some bloody pictures could not be brought out uncontrollably, and Lu Shun was afraid they would become a reality.
后来卢顺赶紧处理完手头的单子，“违规”帮他修了。
Lu Shun hastened to deal with the list on hand, "illegal" to help him repair.
卢顺取下故障的轮胎，充好气后浇上水，细微的破裂处密密冒着气泡，他很快就摸排了出来。
Luchun took off the faulty tires, poured them into the water, and the tiny cracks bubbled up, and he soon came out.
花了20分钟，卢顺补好胎，男人开车离开了门店——一般不需要这么长时间，但男人开的是越野车，大轮胎搬动起来颇费了些时间。
It took 20 minutes for Lu Shun to fix the tire, and the man drove away from the store - not usually for that long, but the man was driving an SUV and it took a while to move the big tyres.
男人走后，害怕、愧疚的恐惧感渐渐散去，成就感才慢慢袭来。
After the man left, the fear of fear, guilt gradually dissipated, a sense of accomplishment slowly hit.
它很袖珍，事情过去两天，如果不是有人问起卢顺难忘的一次救援，卢顺想不起来告诉其他人这件事发生了。
It is very pocket, the matter in the past two days, if someone did not ask LuShun unforgettable rescue, LuShun can not remember telling others that this happened.
但它的存在给了卢顺一种对他人伸出援手的成就感：“整个人心里很通畅，那天做什么事都很顺畅。
But its presence gives Lu Shun a sense of accomplishment in reaching out to others: "The whole person is at ease and everything goes smoothly that day.
”受访者供图 | 救援服务队队员李昌在工作中面对客户，李昌不时产生相惜之情。
"Li Chang, a member of the rescue service team, sparred at times as he faced his clients at work.
比如2月4日到店里更换轮胎的那位年轻人。
Like the young man who came to the store on February 4 to change his tires.
上午10点接到他的求助，直到下午6点多，年轻人才到店里维修。
He asked for help at 10 a.m. and did not come to the shop until well past 6 p.m.
李昌没有催促对方，派单时同事告诉他，车主是滴滴志愿车队的成员，专门为社区接送病人到医院看病、拿药。
Li Chang did not urge the other side, send a list of colleagues told him that the owner of the car is drip-drip volunteer convoys, specially for the community to transport patients to the hospital, medicine.
尽管没有多交谈，但李昌单方面感受到一种“战友”情谊：“可能因为都在为同一件事奋斗，所以格外亲切。
Although he did not talk much, Li Chang felt a "comrade-in-arms" feeling unilaterally: "Perhaps because they were all fighting for the same thing, they were so close.
”那位年轻人个头不高，看样貌年纪才20岁出头，很年轻。
"The young man was a short man, young in his early twenties.
修车时，李昌想问他，你这么年轻的人，为什么愿意暴露自己，到街上接送医务人员和病人。
As he repaired the car, Li Chang wanted to ask him why a young man like you was willing to expose himself and take medical personnel and patients to the street.
“因为他接送病人，危险性比我们还高一些。
"He's a little more dangerous than we are because he's transporting patients.
”疫情当下，隔着口罩和护目镜，人们交谈都惜字如金，李昌说，“面对面交流大家都有风险，大家都想保护自己也对他人负责，所以我们交谈都保持一定距离，交流也不是很多。
'Face-to-face communication is risky. Everyone wants to protect themselves and be responsible for others, so we all talk at a distance and don't talk much, 'he said.
” 因为这个原因，还有许多像这样的关心都没有问出口。
For this reason, many other concerns like this have not been asked.
换好轮胎后，李昌把年轻人的小轿车其它几个轮胎都仔细检查了一遍才肯交车。
After changing the tire, Li Chang examined the young man's car and several other tires carefully before turning it in.
等待城市复苏从李昌的门店望出去，马路对面就是武汉工程科技学院，隔壁的酒店生意往日蛮好，往年随着大学生返校，此时旁边的餐饮一条街也都开张了。
Waiting for the city to recover from Li Chang's store, across the road is Wuhan Engineering and Technology Institute, next door to the hotel business used to be good, with college students returning to school, the next side of the restaurant is also open.
但现在，这家红色的途虎养车工场店成了这条街上唯一开着的门店。
But now the red tiger workshop is the only open shop on the street.
“都没人了”，李昌甚至猜测，附近活动的人类可能只剩下他和搭档陈招。
"Nobody else," Li Chang even speculated, might be the only nearby humans left with Chen Chen.
因为每天都有政府工作人员给附近留守的人测体温、登记数据，李昌偷摸瞟过一眼登记表，上面只有他和陈招的名字。
Because every day there are government staff to take temperature, registration data to the people left behind nearby, Li Chang peeped through the registration form, only his name and Chen's name.
往日的熙攘离得很远很远。
The old hustle and bustle was far away.
每天早晨起床，李昌做的第一件事是看新增病例和确诊病例的数字，等待专家口中“拐点”的出现。
The first thing Li Chang does every morning is to look at the number of new cases and confirmed cases and wait for what experts call the "inflection point."
他觉得自己很冷静，不带情绪，只是希望武汉快点好起来。
He felt very calm, not emotional, just hope Wuhan quickly get better.
在李昌的印象中，热闹是属于雷神山的。
In Li Chang's impression, the bustle belongs to the thunder god mountain.
在雷神山医院交付前，他被派到雷神山医院的工地里维修过几台车。
Before being delivered to Raytheon Hill Hospital, he was sent to the construction site of Raytheon Mountain Hospital to repair several cars.
那里的路上总是排着一辆辆进出运送物资的货车，外地来的车子都挂着标语，“山东XX支援雷神山建设”、“湖南XX支援雷神山建设”……它们拖着物资一辆辆开进工地去，李昌说，那是一种八方支援的感觉。
The roads there are always lined with trucks carrying goods in and out, and cars from other places carry slogans such as "Shandong XX supports the construction of Lei Shenshan," "Hunan XX supports the construction of Lei Shenshan"... They pull supplies into the construction site, Li Chang said.
等待乌云散去的日子里，李昌期待着能紧紧抱住孩子和家人的那天。
Waiting for the dark clouds to dissipate, Li Chang looked forward to the day when he could hold his children and family tightly.
2月1日，第一天志愿服务结束之后，李昌住进了家里的车库，把自己和家人隔离起来。
On February 1, after the first day of volunteer service, Li Chang moved into his home garage and isolated himself from his family.
两个孩子还小，李昌锱铢必较地跟他们保持着至少4米的距离。
As young as his two children, Li Chang was too granular to be at least four meters away from them.
原本，李昌也可以跟病毒保持距离，之所以自愿走出安全区，是受到了一线医务人员的感召：“钟南山院士那么大年纪，他都出来。
Li Chang was also able to keep his distance from the virus, and his voluntary exit from the safe area was prompted by front-line medical staff: "He came out when he was the age of the academician.
还有很多医院的护士医生，全部在物资不够充沛的条件下冲锋在第一线。
There are also many hospital nurses and doctors, all in the conditions of inadequate charge in the front line.
武汉公交地铁都不能动，他们要开车的话，在路上多多少少都会出现一些问题需要救援。
Wuhan public transport subway can not move, they have to drive, in the road more or less there will be some problems to rescue.
为他们提供一点保障，这是力所能及的事。
It is within our power to provide them with a measure of security.
”2月6日这天，张倩下班回到家，吃完饭已是晚上八点多。
On February 6, Zhang returned home from work and finished their meal at more than eight o'clock in the evening.
求援信息仍不定时地发到她的工作微信上。
Requests for help continue to be sent to her job postings on an irregular basis.
这是志愿者们开始服务的第5天，张倩一天天数着，同时一天天等待武汉复苏。
This is the fifth day of volunteer service. Zhang Qian counts them day by day and waits for Wuhan to recover day by day.
张倩供图 |武汉街道以往热闹的景象2月1日，张倩偷偷为武汉哭了一次。
Wuhan Street used to be a busy scene February 1, Zhang Qian secretly cried for Wuhan.
那天早晨，张倩独自开车到武昌区的门店送防护服和护目镜。
That morning, Zhang Qian drove alone to the store in Wuchang district to deliver protective clothing and goggles.
车开过武汉市区的汤逊湖畔，往日在湖边游玩追逐的路人都不见了，“特别地荒凉”。
Driving past the shore of Lake Thomson in Wuhan, the passers-by who used to chase the lake are gone, "particularly desolate."
没有行人，从身边过的车很少，喜欢“过早”的武汉，街头随处可见的早点摊也都不出摊了。
There are no pedestrians, from the side of a few cars, like "premature" Wuhan, the street can be seen in the early stall is not sold.
救护车的笛声鸣起来愈发刺耳，她静下心数，每10分钟就有一辆救护车开过。
The siren of the ambulance squeaked more harshly. She calmed down and an ambulance passed every 10 minutes.
这是个惊奇的角度，她从没看过这座城市白天静默的样子。
It was an amazing angle, and she had never seen the city quiet during the day.
“曾经这么美的一个城市，怎么这个样子了。
"What a beautiful city it used to be.
”张倩把车停在路边，发了一条朋友圈：劝大家没事还是别出来，因为出来会感觉更糟心。
"Zhang Qian parked her car by the side of the road and sent a group of friends: advise everyone to be all right or not to come out, because it will feel worse.
“当你看到那么繁华的城市，突然这么地荒凉，这种时候内心会非常难受。
"When you see such a busy city, suddenly so desolate, the heart will be very uncomfortable.
”张倩感到眼泪不受控制地掉了出来。
"Clinique's tears fell out uncontrollably.
2月6日，武汉告别了连日晴天，又下起了雨。
On February 6, Wuhan said goodbye to the sunny days, and it began to rain again.
武汉城里，许多人在等待雨过天晴。
In Wuhan, many people are waiting for the rain to clear up.
*文中李斌为化名。
* In this article Li Bin alias.
撰文 | 林森菜 李仪- END-疫情紧急，举国齐动。
RIM SUN LEE-END - The outbreak is urgent and the country is united.
真故会在“一起抗疫”专栏里，记录下不同人在这段特殊时期的努力。
It is true that in the "An Anti-epidemic" column, the efforts of different people in this particular period of time are recorded.
每一丝力量，都光芒万丈。
Every breath of power is radiant.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫区救援，我在武汉修汽车。
Rescue in epidemic areas, I repair cars in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫区救援，我在武汉修汽车";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Rescue in affected areas; I repaired & quot; at Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "他们的劳动满足着一种特殊而基础的“刚需”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; their labor met a special and fundamental "need."
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
