从日本飞来的口罩。
Mask flying from Japan.
十三。
Thirteen.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
新冠肺炎疫情持续蔓延，在医疗物资紧缺情况下，援助一线，成了场生死攸关的接力赛。
New crown pneumonia continues to spread, in the face of shortages of medical supplies, the first line of assistance has become a life-and-death relay.
封城之际，困守武汉的辛迪，将募捐物资的接力棒，交到了在日本的朋友们手中。
At the time of the siege of Wuhan Cindy, will collect donations of the baton, delivered in the hands of friends in Japan.
本文为真故联合万能编辑部（ID：new-lens）共同推出。
This article for the truth joint universal editorial department (ID: new-lens) co-launch.
故事时间：2020年故事地点：武汉“缺，太缺了！”1月22日，等待9小时后，辛迪终于收到了朋友小林的回复。
The Story of 2020 "Wuhan is short, too short!" On January 22, nine hours after waiting, Cindy finally received a reply from her friend Xiao Lin.
小林是武汉一所医院的护士，当疫情和恐慌在武汉蔓延，她奋战在一线，只能在高强度工作的间隙，回复辛迪“缺不缺物资”的消息。
Kobayashi is a Wuhan hospital nurses, when the epidemic and panic spread in Wuhan, she fought in the front line, can only in the high intensity of work, to respond to Cindy "no shortage of supplies.
紧接着，小林发来了医院照片。
Then Xiao Lin sent a picture of the hospital.
几位护士长时间佩戴口罩后，脸上出现了深深的压痕。
Several nurses wore masks for a long time, and deep indentations on their faces.
由于口罩稀缺，她们不敢轻易摘下。
They are afraid to take them off easily because masks are scarce.
辛迪再一次意识到物资紧缺的程度。
Cindy is again aware of the extent of the shortage.
四天前，辛迪从杭州返回武汉时，没想到事情会发展到这个地步：口罩、消毒液、板蓝根抢购一空；确诊的人数不断上升，“一睁眼，都是坏消息”。
When Cindy returned to Wuhan from Hangzhou four days ago, she did not expect things to go as far as this: masks, disinfectants, blue-root snaps; the number of people diagnosed was rising and "all bad news if you open your eyes."
1月23日，武汉封城的消息传来，辛迪感到窒息，焦虑地在家闯来闯去时，一个想法冒了出来：她可以为物资告急的医院募捐口罩。
When word of the city's closure came on January 23, Cindy, choked and anxious to rush home, came up with the idea that she could collect masks for a hospital in urgent need.
作为淘宝全球购“日本买手联盟”会长，辛迪打算发起在日本的买手朋友，募捐海外的医疗物资，由她来对接物流，支援一线医护人员。
As president of Taobao's global "Japan Buyers Alliance," Cindy plans to raise money from Japanese buyers to raise money for medical supplies from overseas, where she will link logistics and support front-line health workers.
和武汉一线医院联系，确认过口罩型号后，辛迪马上建了一个“物资捐助”微信群，在朋友圈扩散消息。
With Wuhan first-line hospital contact, confirmed the mask model, Cindy immediately set up a "material donation" micro-group, spread the message in friends.
此时，武汉口罩已是一户难求。
At this point, Wuhan mask is a difficult family.
辛迪心想，只要海外有一人响应，就至少可以让一位医护战士戴上口罩。
As long as one person overseas responds, Cindy thought, at least one medical fighter could wear a mask.
超出辛迪的预期，买手们像潮水般涌入群中。
More than Cindy had expected, buyers flooded into the crowd.
进群的人，有的是在日本的华人买手，也有她合作过的品牌方负责人。
Some of those who come into the group are Chinese buyers in Japan, and some of the brand names she has worked with are in charge.
他们了解情况后，立即出门，冲到附近的药店采购。
As soon as they got to know the situation, they went out and rushed to the nearby drugstore for shopping.
不同品牌、型号的口罩照片井喷般冒了出来。
Different brands and models of masks have sprung up like a blowout.
当前日本还未出现口罩抢购潮，买手们拍下实物照片后，赶紧发到群里确认：“这个可以捐吗？”图 | 日本买手联盟成员在购买口罩看着形形色色的图片，辛迪突然意识到，自己疏忽了。
At the moment, there is no rush to buy face masks in Japan, and buyers snapped physical pictures and sent them to the group to confirm: "Can this be donated?" Photo & # # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在疫情面前，时间分秒必争。
Time is against the clock in the face of the epidemic.
但图中的口罩，有些并不符合医用规格，更关键的是，医用防护口罩在普通药店是稀缺品，难得一见。
But some of the masks in the picture do not meet medical specifications and, crucially, medical masks are scarce and rare in general pharmacies.
继续按这种方式募捐，不仅费时费力，甚至会出现很多“徒劳”工作。
It would take time and effort, and even a lot of "useless" work, to continue collecting money in this way.
当机立断，辛迪决定改变方式，募捐资金，再统一向供货商打款、采购。
Immediately, Cindy decided to change the way, fund-raising funds, and then unified to the suppliers, procurement.
她在群里公布了收款账户，大家捐款后可以在群里按顺序报出姓名和金额。
She opened a collection account in the group, from which they could list their names and amounts in sequence.
发出捐款接龙的消息后，辛迪放下手机，有些忐忑。
Cindy put down her mobile phone after the news of the donation, some perturbed.
让大家直接将钱打给她，是场对信任的考验，她不知道自己是否成功。
Getting people to call her directly is a test of trust. She doesn't know if she succeeds or not.
频繁的消息提示声，打断了辛迪的思绪。
Cindy's thoughts were interrupted by frequent reminders of the news.
买手们已经开始报数，人数很快达到了两位数。
Buyers are already counting, and the numbers are rapidly reaching double digits.
看到捐款模式有可行性，辛迪松了一口气，即刻与朋友开始筛选日本的货源。
Seeing the viability of the donation model, Cindy breathed a sigh of relief and immediately began to sift through Japanese supplies with friends.
经过比对，锁定日本的一家医疗网站后，辛迪发现，捐款资金已突破了7万人民币。
After a comparison, after locking in a Japanese medical website, Cindy found that the donation fund has exceeded 70,000 yuan.
惊喜之余，辛迪又面临新的抉择。
Surprisingly, Cindy was faced with new choices.
医疗物资紧缺，在很长一段时间内都将是常态，供不应求后，物价被炒高是必然趋势，而目前这家医疗网站货源较多，价格适中。
Medical supplies are in short supply and will remain the norm for a long time. After supply exceeds demand, it is inevitable that prices will be inflated.
咬咬牙，辛迪和朋友说：“如果捐款凑不齐，就自己捐。
"If the donation doesn't come together, give it to him," Cindy and his friend said.
”商量后，她们垫钱，一口气下了17万人民币的订单，物资包括医用口罩和护目镜。
After consultation, they advanced the money and placed an order for 170,000 yuan, including medical masks and goggles.
图 | 部分物资清单物资总额虽超过了已有资金10万，但当消息扩散，第二天，关注捐资的人不断增多。
The following day, as news spread, the number of people watching donations grew as some of the items on the list totaled more than $100,000.
随之而来的，也有质疑的声音。
And then there are the voices of doubt.
“你们的物资交给红十字会了吗？”“怎么确保这些口罩交到医护人员手上？”“捐款全部用来买口罩了？”即使时间紧张，辛迪也坚持在群里用文字分别回复，解答网友们的“十万个为什么”。
"Did you hand over your supplies to the Red Cross?" "How do you make sure these masks are in the hands of paramedics?" "Donations are all for masks?" Even though time was tight, Cindy insisted on answering "100,000 Why?"
她决定当晚就把捐款流水单、采购订单公布，让大家看到募捐的进度。
She decided to release her donation slips and purchase orders that very evening to show how much money was being raised.
整理捐款名单时，辛迪发现，账号收到的资金大于群里接龙的金额总数。
As she sorted through the list, Cindy found that the account had received more money than the group had received.
其实，有许多人默默捐了钱，却没有留下姓名。
In fact, many people silently donated money, but did not leave their names.
在进行金额统计时，辛迪也看到五千、一万人民币出现了很多次，与这些数字对应的捐款人，几乎都是辛迪陌生的名字。
Cindy also saw five thousand or ten thousand yuan in the count, and almost all of the donors to these figures were new names.
原来，“日本买手联盟”里的许多买手店主，都积极拉动身边的人，帮忙募捐。
Originally, "Japan Buy Hand" in many shopkeepers, are actively pulling people around to help raise money.
令辛迪没想到的是，第二天之内，款额就凑齐了。
To Cindy's surprise, the next day the sum was all set.
接下来要解决的，便是物流问题。
The next problem to be solved is logistics.
为了节省运输时间，经过协商，日本物流公司准备提供免费包机服务。
In order to save shipping time, after negotiations, the Japanese logistics company is ready to provide free charter services.
1月30日，第一批医疗物资直接从大阪飞到了武汉天河机场，武汉协和医院派人到海关签收，运回医院。
On January 30, the first batch of medical supplies flew directly from Osaka to Wuhan Tianhe Airport. Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital sent personnel to the customs office to sign it and return it to the hospital.
图 |从大阪运送至武汉天河机场的物资当收到医护人员发来的签收信息，辛迪觉得一切付出没有白费。
When she received a signed message from the medical staff at Tianhe Airport, Osaka, Cindy felt that all the effort had not been in vain.
百感交集下，她发了一条朋友圈：“希望一切能快点好起来。
With mixed feelings, she sent out a circle of friends: "I hope everything will get better soon.
”1月27日，淘宝官方微博发布了辛迪和“日本买手联盟”的捐资消息，高晓松在微博上转发并评论道：“我们都在一起！”图| 高晓松微博截图得到官方微博确认和高晓松力挺后，质疑的声音开始减少，更多人知道了辛迪和朋友们在做的事并加入了进来。
On January 27, Taobao's official Weibo blog announced donations from Cindy and the Japan Federation of Buyers, which Gao forwarded and commented on Weibo: "We're Together!" & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
辛迪对接的医院，也从武汉辐射到湖北和全国，一共对接了包括武汉协和医院、荆州市第三人民医院、湖南益阳市南县人民医院在内的13家医院。
The hospital where Cindy docked, also radiated from Wuhan to Hubei and throughout the country, docked 13 hospitals, including Wuhan Heping Hospital, Jingzhou Third People's Hospital and Nan County People's Hospital in Yiyang City, Hunan Province.
当辛迪根据每个地方的情况，按需采购时，之前令她担心的问题果然出现了。
When Cindy buys on demand, depending on where she is, the problems that previously worried her turn out to be real.
随着新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情不断扩大，日本的医疗物资也面临紧缺，供应不足，价格上涨。
With the expansion of the new coronavirus pneumonia, Japan also faces a shortage of medical supplies, supplies, prices.
原本200日元左右的护目镜，价格翻了十到二十倍。
The original 200 yen or so goggles, the price increased 10 to 20 times.
有几次，辛迪预付定金的订单，也因不可抗力因素被取消。
On several occasions, Cindy's down payment orders were cancelled due to force majeure.
好在与此同时，物资捐赠也同步进行，身处日本的买手们穿梭药店，搜集口罩。
Fortunately, supplies are being donated in tandem, with Japanese buyers shuttling through pharmacies and collecting masks.
一位买手告诉辛迪，当他走进药店时，店员马上告诉他口罩限购，但当买手说明口罩是要寄往中国武汉的，店员当即取消了限购，还把店里的存货全拿了出来，帮着买手一起装箱、打包。
A buyer told Cindy that when he walked into the drugstore, the clerk told him that the mask was restricted, but when the buyer explained that the mask was intended for Wuhan, China, the clerk cancelled the restriction immediately and took out the entire stock, packing and packing it for the buyer.
日本民间也自发组织捐赠，有些箱子上，除了写着“武汉加油”，还有“山川异域，风月同天”。
Japan's non-governmental organizations also spontaneous donations, some boxes, in addition to the written "Wuhan refueling," there are "mountains and rivers exotic, the same day."
这让辛迪感慨万千，当年她身在日本，即使“风月同天”，还是常常想念武汉的山川和亲人，“不管人在什么地方，家是唯一的归宿” 。
Cindy was moved by the fact that, even though she was in Japan, she often missed the mountains, rivers and relatives in Wuhan, "wherever people are, home is the only home."
大学毕业后，辛迪做了一个决定，去日本闯闯，想出国锻炼自己。
After graduating from college, Cindy made a decision to break into Japan and go abroad to practice.
一出去，辛迪就尝到人间辛苦，因为语言不通，她一开始只能做一些“比较卑微的工作”，最多时候一天打四份工：流水线食品打包、餐厅、厨房、工厂。
As soon as she went out, Cindy began with "menial jobs" because she could not understand the language. She did four jobs a day at most: assembly-line food packing, restaurants, kitchens, and factories.
就这样，她慢慢掌握日语。
In this way, she slowly mastered Japanese.
2007年，辛迪成为日本一知名商场第一个被聘请的中国导购员。
In 2007, Cindy became the first Chinese buyer to be hired at a well-known mall in Japan.
2011年，辛迪怀孕，她决定辞去工作，在家开淘宝店，转型做买手。
In 2011, when Cindy became pregnant, she decided to quit her job and open a Taobao shop at home, transforming herself into a buyer.
离职时，日本同事写给她几十张卡片，上面是满满的祝福：“辛苦了，经常看到你充满活力在身边。
As she left her job, her Japanese colleague wrote her dozens of cards full of blessings: "I've worked so hard, I always saw you full of energy around me.
希望能生一个国际宝宝，什么语言都会说”，“你辞职了，感觉身边寂寞很多。
Hope to have an international baby, any language can say, "You resigned, feel a lot lonely around.
孩子生出来后，再到我们这里来玩” 。
Come and play with us when the baby is born.
2017年5月，凭借6年的买手经验和品牌积累，辛迪在日本东京成立了“日本买手联盟”，为买手和品牌搭建平台。
In May 2017, with six years of hands-on experience and brand building, Cindy founded the Japan Federation of Buyers in Tokyo, Japan, to build a platform for buying hands and branding.
她的业务覆盖美妆、日化、服装、母婴、珠宝、保健品等，很快被淘宝全球购授予“全球购买手商业联合会合作伙伴”。
Her business covers makeup, daily chemicals, clothing, mother and child, jewelry, health care products, and was quickly Taobao Global Purchasing Federation partners.
之后，辛迪常年往返杭州、日本两地，在武汉陪父母和女儿的时间，一年加起来不过二十多天。
Since then, Cindy has been traveling all year round to Hangzhou and Japan, spending only 20 days a year with her parents and daughter in Wuhan.
今年春节前夕，即使当时武汉已拉响疫情警报，辛迪还是毅然回家，“不管怎么样，过年一定要跟家人在一起”。
This year's Spring Festival eve, even if Wuhan had sounded the alarm, Cindy still resolutely home, "no matter what, the New Year must be with their families.
现在，每天睁开眼，辛迪就开始和医院人员对接物资需求、处理捐资消息和筛选日本货源，要比对价格和到货日期。
Now, with her eyes open every day, Cindy starts docking with hospital staff, processing donations and sifting Japanese supplies against prices and arrival dates.
看到符合标准、价格合适的物资，辛迪马上截图发给医院对接人，由他们判断是否可用，如果没问题，辛迪这边尽快购买，到货后再整理签收单。
Seeing supplies that met the standards and were priced appropriately, Cindy immediately snapped and sent them to the hospital to see if it was usable. If there was no problem, Cindy would buy it as soon as possible and arrange the receipt after it was delivered.
图 | 物资送到医护人员手中一天晚上，正埋头处理表格和单据时，一条转账消息让辛迪愣住了。
When the supplies arrived at the paramedics one night, wrapped up in forms and bills, Cindy was stunned by a transfer.
转账金额很小，只有300元，却让辛迪感到惭愧。
The transfer was small, only 300 yuan, but Cindy felt ashamed.
这笔钱来自辛迪9岁的女儿。
The money came from Cindy's nine-year-old daughter.
母女俩一个月都难得见到一次，春节本是两人相处的时间，但这一次，她没能陪伴女儿，每天都在和买手、医院对接工作。
Mother and daughter rarely see each other once a month, Spring Festival is the time for the two of them, but this time, she did not accompany her daughter, every day and buy hands, hospital docking work.
辛迪没想到女儿看在眼里，默默支持，她在转账留言里写道：“这是我捐的钱。
Cindy didn't expect her daughter to look in her eyes and silently support her. "This is my donation," she wrote in the note.
”发现女儿把头像改成了“我爱口罩”，辛迪询问是什么意思，女儿回答：“因为妈妈天天到处找口罩，天天买口罩。
"Seeing her daughter change her face into" I love masks, "Cindy asked," Because my mother is looking for masks everywhere and buys them every day.
”辛迪听了感动，对女儿轻轻说：“妈妈会记得你的爱心。
"Cindy heard this and said to her daughter softly," Mom will remember your love.
”目前，“日本买手联盟”已经筹集到28万人民币的捐款和众多物资。
The Japan Federation of Buyers has so far raised Rmb280,000 in donations and supplies.
最近的一批物资，将在2月5日抵达武汉天河机场，包括口罩、护目镜、防护服、消毒液和一次性手套。
The latest consignment, which will arrive at Wuhan Tianhe airport on February 5, includes face masks, goggles, protective clothing, disinfectant and disposable gloves.
作为武汉人，辛迪在朋友圈转发过一张“武汉加油”图。
As a Wuhan, Cindy in the circle of friends forwarded a "refueling Wuhan" map.
那张图的像素，已经随着转发次数多而变得模糊。
The pixels of that map have become blurred with the number of forwarding times.
但上面的文字，依旧清晰可辩：“关闭一座城，保护一国人。
But the words are still clear: "Close a city and protect a nation."
武汉，是一座可敬之城，我们的城市病了，但我们会治好它。
Wuhan, is a respectable city, our city is sick, but we will cure it.
待春花烂漫、樱花盛开时，希望你们还是喜欢武汉。
Waiting for the spring flowers blooming, cherry blossoms, I hope you still like Wuhan.
”- END -撰文| 十三编辑| 张舒婷。
"- END - Writing & # 124; # 124; Thirteen Editor and # 124; Zhang Shu Ting.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
从日本飞来的口罩。
Mask flying from Japan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "从日本飞来的口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from Japan.
var msg_desc = "一场支援行动。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a support operation.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
