武汉新生儿：在危险中降临。
Wuhan newborn: in danger to come.
刘妍 温丽虹。
Liuyan Wenlihong.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
预产期临近的产妇，是这次新冠肺炎防疫中极易被忽视的群体，她们无法脱离医院环境，极易被感染，牵涉到两条生命。
The expectant mothers are the most neglected group in the new crown pneumonia vaccination, they can not leave the hospital environment, extremely vulnerable to infection, involving two lives.
在疫区，一些产妇和家人在迎来新生命的欣喜中，也面临着生死考验，同样被考验的，还有仅仅只有几天大的婴儿。
In the affected areas, some mothers and their families are faced with life-or-death trials in the joy of a new life, as well as babies who are only a few days old.
生死门1月28日早上，一辆救护车把熊易和妻子送到武汉市第三医院光谷院区。
On the morning of January 28, an ambulance took Xiong Yi and his wife to the Guanggu courtyard of Wuhan Third Hospital.
护士走在前头，带领熊易和妻子去办理入院，护士的防护镜里满是雾气。
The nurse walked ahead, taking Xiong Yi and his wife to the hospital. The nurse's glasses were foggy.
隔离病房外的门厅已经挤满了办好住院证，却因床位紧张而无法入住的疑似感染者。
The hallway outside the isolation ward is already crowded with suspected infected people who have been issued hospital passes but are unable to move in because of tight beds.
大多是7、80岁的老人，年纪最小的看起来也在50岁以上，有人坐在行李上等空床位，还有人因无法入住正在和医护人员吵架。
Most were 7 or 80-year-olds, the youngest of whom appeared to be over the age of 50, some were sitting in their luggage waiting for an empty bed, while others were quarrelling with paramedics.
熊易妻子是高度疑似感染产妇。
Xiong Yi's wife is highly suspected of having contracted the disease.
却因此，幸运地分得一个隔离单间，他申请陪护，同妻子住了进去。
Fortunately, however, he was assigned a separate room and applied for escort and went in with his wife.
眼前情景悲凉不忍看，焦心的熊易牵着妻子，穿过一双双同样焦灼却复杂的眼睛。
At present the scene is sad and sad can not bear to see, worried bear easy to lead his wife, through a pair of the same anxious but complex eyes.
两天前的夜里7点，妻子在湖北省妇幼保健院进行了剖腹产，诞下5斤8两的健康女婴。
Two days ago at 7: 00 pm, the wife in Hubei province maternal and child health care hospital Caesarean section, gave birth to 5 jin 8 2 healthy baby girls.
次日早6点，妻子开始发热。
At six o'clock the next morning the wife began to get feverish.
护士帮妻子测了2次体温，第一次是37.6度，隔一阵再测，体温又降回正常。
The nurse took his wife's temperature two times. The first time was 37.6 degrees.
当时，熊易和妻子都没意识到这可能是新型冠状病毒感染的症状，以为只是产后第二天抵抗力下降导致的暂时性发热，但为保险起见，妻子还是去拍了肺部CT。
Neither Xiong Yi nor his wife realized that this could be a sign of a new coronavirus infection. They thought it was a temporary fever caused by reduced resistance the next day, but just to be on the safe side, the wife took a lung CT.
下午2点，熊易拿到CT诊断报告，提示妻子的肺部下方有小面积磨玻璃状阴影。
At 2 p. m., Xiong got a CT diagnosis, suggesting a small area of ground glass-like shadows beneath his wife's lungs.
医生让熊易先带妻子回去等着，待会儿会去病房找他详细讲解。
The doctor told Xiong Yi to take his wife back and wait for him.
接下来是6个小时的熬人等待，熊易在走廊里焦灼渡步，听到有人交谈，说什么“双肺感染要转院”。
Next came the six hours of waiting, during which Xiong was anxiously strolling in the hallway, hearing people talking about "a two-lung infection that needs to be transferred to hospital."
他有点慌，拿着妻子的诊断报告，开始挨个楼层去找医生。
A little alarmed, he took his wife's diagnostic report and began looking for a doctor one floor after another.
晚8点，熊易终于在另一间病房门口见到了医生，说明情况后，医生判断妻子高度疑似新型冠状病毒感染，要立即办理转院，并进行隔离。
At 8 pm, Xiong Yi finally saw the doctor at the door of another ward. After explaining the situation, the doctor decided that his wife was highly suspected of having a new coronavirus infection.
当晚，新生儿被爷爷带回家，熊易自己也去查了个肺部CT，万幸并无病变。
That night, the newborn was brought home by his grandfather, Xiong Yi himself to check a lung CT, fortunately there is no lesion.
转院途中，熊易从救护车窗朝外看，空荡的大街让他有些恍惚。
On the way to the hospital, Xiong Yi looked out of the ambulance window. The empty street made him feel a little trance.
这对父母刚刚迎来新生命，又将面临生死考验。
The parents just welcomed the new life, will face the test of life and death.
受访者供图 |熊易的妻子与宝宝因为核酸试剂盒短缺，妻子暂时无法确诊。
The wife and baby were unable to be diagnosed temporarily because of a shortage of nucleic acid kits.
这成了一种薛定谔式的安慰，除了发热，妻子暂无干咳、腹泻等其他感染症状，熊易侥幸地想，或许肺炎的事只是误会。
It became Schrodinger's comfort that, apart from fever, his wife had no dry cough, diarrhea, and other infectious symptoms.
偶尔闲暇，熊易就在心中竭力回溯，妻子沾染新冠病毒的可能环节。
Occasionally leisure, bear Yi in the heart diligently traces, the wife contaminates the new crown virus possible link.
最有可能感染的日子是1月21日。
The most likely date for infection is January 21.
当天，熊易的父亲突然发烧，伴随着腹泻，他带父亲去中山医院，做了除肺部CT外的其余十几种检查，没有查出任何异样。
On the same day, Xiong Yi's father suddenly had a fever, accompanied by diarrhea, he took his father to Zhongshan Hospital, did the CT lung in addition to the rest of the examination, did not find any abnormalities.
现在回想，或许在那个时候，妻子就已经被感染了病毒。
In retrospect, perhaps at that time, my wife was infected with the virus.
流产妈妈群里的互助毛小安给未出生的孩子起名“壮壮”，期待孩子能顺利降生、身体强壮。
Abortion mother group of mutual assistance Mao Xiaoan unborn children named "stout", expect the children to be born smoothly, strong body.
怀孕21周的她，家在武汉市江汉区，目前被视为此次冠状病毒疫情爆发“原点”的华南海鲜城就在这里，距离她家约5公里。
Twenty-one weeks pregnant, her home in Wuhan, Wuhan, is now regarded as the "origin" of the coronavirus outbreak of the South China Sea fresh city is here, about 5 kilometers from her home.
毛小安患有非典型抗磷脂综合征，由于自身免疫系统的反应危及胎儿，她需要在医生指导下，每天在皮下注射低分子肝素钠注射剂、口服阿司匹林来保胎，一旦停药，随时可能胎停。
Mao, who suffers from atypical anti-phospholipid syndrome, needs a daily injection of low-molecular-weight heparin sodium injections and aspirin to protect the fetus under the guidance of her doctor.
因此，毛小安高隆的肚皮上，连起了成片注射针剂的淤青痕迹。
As a result, Mao Xiaolong on the stomach, even the injection into the film of bruising.
每周，毛小安需要到省妇幼面诊，让医生根据她的检查结果，调整接下来一周的“肝素”注射量。
Every week, Mao needs to visit his provincial mother and child and have her doctor adjust her heparin injection for the next week based on her results.
孕程初期，她遵医嘱，每天打一针“肝素”，后来，在例行问诊时发现肝功能异常，医生旋即将她的注射量调整为两天打3针。
In the early stages of pregnancy, she was prescribed a daily dose of heparin. Later, when abnormal liver function was discovered during routine visits, the doctor adjusted her dose to three injections for two days.
到怀孕第八周时，毛小安在每周产检时发现保证胚胎正常发育的HCG数值过早回落，医生旋即加大她的“肝素”注射量，一天两针。
By the eighth week of pregnancy, Mao found that the HCG, which guarantees normal embryonic development, had fallen too early. Doctors immediately increased her heparin injection, two shots a day.
得知省妇幼复发性流产门诊停诊的消息让她不安。
She was disturbed to learn of the discontinuation of recurrent abortion clinics in the province.
一方面，她无法通过每周一次的门诊精准调整药量，再则“肝素”紧缺——那是处方药，一般状况下，只有患者带着医嘱才能到药房取到药。
On the one hand, she is unable to adjust the dosage accurately through weekly outpatient visits, and there is a shortage of heparin, a prescription drug that is normally only available to patients at pharmacies on medical advice.
春节前，毛小安通过网络渠道购入了一批“肝素”，约一周的注射量。
Before the Spring Festival, Mao Xiaoan bought a batch of "heparin" through the network channel, about a week's injection amount.
“封城”后的武汉，新陈代谢逐步慢了下来，物流不知何时也停了，网购“肝素”的渠道也被封锁。
"After the closure" Wuhan, metabolism gradually slowed down, logistics do not know when to stop, the network to buy "heparin" channels were blocked.
门诊开诊遥遥无期，她不得不省着点打，由一天两针改为两天三针，尽量减少针剂的消耗量，直到重新开诊的那天。
The outpatient consultation was far from over and she had to save a few strokes, changing from two needles to two or three injections a day to minimize the need for injections until the day they were reopened.
减少注射量之后，新的担忧接踵而至——胎儿会不会由于药物剂量不够，再次死去？失去医院专业仪器的辅助，毛小安每天在家中用特地购置的胎心仪听胎儿的心跳，每天晚上，她都坚持要感受到胎儿在腹中踢她才肯睡去。
After the injection was cut, new worries began to set in - would the fetus die again due to insufficient dosages? Without the help of specialized hospital equipment, Mao would listen to her unborn child's heartbeat at home every day, insisting she would feel the baby kicking her in her stomach every night.
这种捉摸不定的感觉令毛小安焦虑。
This sense of uncertainty worried Mao.
她总是不住地想，自己和宝宝能不能熬到顺利生产的那一天。
She kept wondering if she and her baby would be able to make it through to the day of delivery.
2018年9月，尚不知自己罹患该症的毛小安，第一胎在孕期27周发生胎停，她被推进产房引产。
In September 2018, Mao Xiaoan, who did not know she was suffering from the disease, had her first child aborted in the 27th week of pregnancy and was induced to labor in a maternity ward.
那是一次令人绝望的“生产”，毛小安承受着和隔壁的产妇类似的痛苦和风险，可等待被接生的孩子已在她的肚子里死去。
It was a desperate "production," with Mao suffering and risks similar to those of the mother next door, waiting for the baby to be delivered to die in her stomach.
封城后，各个孕妇群的氛围变得紧张，每位孕妇都怕自己是在感染潜伏期，打个喷嚏都觉得自己“中招了”。
After the closure of the city, the atmosphere of the pregnant women became tense, every pregnant woman is afraid that they are in the incubation period, sneeze feel that they "confessed."
不断有真假难辨的消息传出，说某医院有孕妇感染了肺炎，瞒着没说，连着做了几天胎心监护，还办理了住院待产。
There are persistent reports that pregnant women in a hospital have contracted pneumonia, without telling the truth, for a few days of fetal heart monitoring, but also the hospital waiting to give birth.
当晚，孕妇发烧，医生连夜将病房腾出来消毒，据说从1月30日起，所有产妇入院待产，都要做肺部CT。
That night, the pregnant woman had a fever, the doctor all night out the hospital room disinfection, said from January 30, all women waiting to give birth, must be lung CT.
这样的传闻多了，孕妇们大多不敢去医院产检，担心会交叉感染，把病毒带给肚子里的伢。
There was so much talk that most pregnant women did not dare to go to the hospital for an examination, fearing that they would become cross-infected so that the virus would become so strong in their stomachs.
以往这些孕妇群都是“一次性”的，孕妇生产后便会退群，去加新的宝妈群。
Previously these groups of pregnant women are "disposable," pregnant women give birth after the group will withdraw to add new mother.
现在，每天都有新的孕产妇进群，希望能获知更多可靠的消息。
Now new mothers are coming in every day, hoping to get more reliable information.
1月30日，毛小安给一名家住黄冈市的孕妇寄去了三种药片：二甲双胍、雌激素和地屈孕酮。
On January 30, Mao sent three tablets: metformin, estrogen and diprogesterone to a pregnant woman living in Huanggang.
这是怀孕早期的孕妈服用的药物，特殊时期，400余人的复发性流产妈妈群里，每天都有准妈妈因家中保胎药物告罄而求助。
Pregnant women in the early stages of pregnancy take this medicine, a special period of more than 400 recurrent abortion mothers, every day because the mother-to-be because of pregnancy medicine depletion at home and seek help.
安全度过孕程初期的准妈妈们，会将以前吃剩的药物匀出来，用快递寄给急需服用的姐妹。
Expectant mothers who survive the early stages of pregnancy will free up leftover medications and send them by courier to their desperately needed sisters.
而“肝素”极度稀缺，大部分人都需要通过减少注射量来延长使用周期，很多人自身难保。
And heparin is extremely scarce, and most people need to extend their life cycle by reducing the amount of injections they inject.
碰到有姐妹突然胎停，在这种特殊的时刻，是否有人能及时发现并抢救她们？答案不确定，就有可能造成一尸两命的悲剧。
In the event of a sudden stop of a sister, at this particular moment, will someone be able to find and save them in time? The answer is uncertain and could result in a tragic death.
这个话题过于不祥，毛小安只是默默地想，不敢与其他人讨论。
The topic was too ominous for Mao to contemplate, and he dared not discuss it with anyone else.
曲折漫长的生产之路1月23日，对在黄冈老家探亲的许冰冰来说，是生产计划彻底被打乱的一天，返回武汉的路被一点一点关上。
For Xu Bingbing, who visited his family in Huanggang on January 23, the day production plans were completely disrupted and the road back to Wuhan closed bit by bit.
一开始，许冰冰通过新闻得知武汉封城的消息。
At the beginning, Xu Bingbing learned the news of the closure of Wuhan through the news.
随后，她留意到同事群里在讨论，进出武汉的高速路口都封闭了，有的人离开武汉，走小路绕了很久：“当时封城，只是觉得不能出来，没想到后来进去都难。
Then she noticed a discussion among her colleagues that the expressway to and from Wuhan had been closed. Some people had left Wuhan and had gone round it for a long time.
”她打开电子地图，以家里住的小区为终点搜索路况。
She opened her e-map and searched the neighborhood for road conditions.
以往从武汉回老家，开车需要一个半小时，而实时更新的电子地图显示，返回需要绕路，时间和路程都多了一倍。
Back home from Wuhan, it used to take an hour and a half to drive, and a real-time update of the e-map showed it would take a detour, doubling time and distance.
随着宣布封闭的道路越来越多，之后的几天，许冰冰每每在电子地图上搜索返回武汉的路，路程就可能更长几分。
Over the next few days, as more and more roads were declared closed, Xu Bingbing searched the e-map for the road back to Wuhan.
1月18日，许冰冰到医院进行每周一次的孕晚期常规检查时，医生告诉许冰冰，胎儿已经部分入盆，那是胎儿在羊水和胎膜包围中，慢慢转为头部朝下、臀部朝上的姿态。
When Xu Bingbing went to the hospital for a weekly routine check-up in late pregnancy on January 18, doctors told Xu Bingbing that the fetus had been partially ingested and that the fetus was slowly turning head-down and hips up in amniotic fluid and membranes.
根据产检结果判断，许冰冰的生育时间在1月26日之后。
According to the results of prenatal tests, Xu Bingbing childbearing time after January 26.
这意味着，1月26日之后，许冰冰每一天都要做好孩子降生的准备。
This means that after January 26, Xu Bingbing has to be prepared for the birth of a child every day.
事实上，临产前最后的准备从那时就开始了。
In fact, the last pre-natal preparation begins at that time.
许冰冰做好了接下来的日程安排：1月22日跟丈夫回到黄冈市镇上的老家过年，1月26日返程，做最后一次产检，随后等待孩子降生。
Xu made the arrangements for the upcoming Spring Festival, which he and his husband would return to their hometown in Huanggang City on January 22, for a final checkup and a baby's birth.
1月25日，许冰冰通过新闻得知，武汉市内开始进行机动车限行：“限制机动车出行，我就算过去了也不一定能去医院。
On January 25, Xu Bingbing learned from the news that the city of Wuhan began to impose motor vehicle restrictions: "Restrictions on motor vehicle travel, even if I can go to the hospital.
”在准妈妈群里，这个消息引发了惶恐。
"Among expectant mothers, the news caused alarm.
有人打电话到居委会去询问，得到的答复是，居委会将准备转车接送病人，但尚未到位，且不是24小时待命。
A call was made to the neighbourhood committee, which was informed that it would be prepared to transfer patients, but had not yet arrived and was not on 24-hour standby.
接着，有人提议，紧急情况下，可以拨打120，请求救护车送医。
It was then proposed that, in an emergency, an ambulance could be called 120 to be taken to hospital.
但特殊时期，即使知道救护车每次接送一趟病人后都会消毒，在准妈妈的群里，也很少有人敢冒这个险。
But even in special times, when an ambulance is known to disinfect a patient after every trip, few in the expectant mother's group dare to take the risk.
这个警报，直到有人提出，生产是特殊情况，应该能得到放行，才得以解除。
This warning, until it is suggested that production is an exceptional case, should be released before it can be lifted.
对许冰冰来说，此时的武汉城内变数太大，即使大费周折回到武汉家中，也可能无法顺利到医院生产。
For Xu Bingbing, the city of Wuhan at this time is too variable, even if the trouble to return to Wuhan home, may not be able to smooth hospital delivery.
她决定做两手准备，在黄冈老家寻找适合生产的医院，以备不时之需。
She decided to make preparations to find a suitable hospital in her hometown of Huanggang in case of emergency.
此前，她对第一个孩子的到来有着许多想象，譬如，那床留在武汉家中，无法取回的淡蓝色襁褓。
Before that, she had many imaginations of the first child coming, for example, that the bed had been left in Wuhan with an irretrievable baby blue swaddling.
许冰冰在网上挑了许多日才选中，拿到手后，经过水洗和晾晒，小心折叠好，小心翼翼地收进待产包里，想象着孩子会被裹在这张淡蓝色的襁褓里与她相逢，一切令人期待。
Xu Bing selected many days on the Internet, after hand, after washing and drying, carefully folded up, carefully into the labor package, imagine the child will be wrapped in this pale blue swaddling clothes with her, everything is expected.
由于疫情，这些想象都落空了。
Because of the outbreak, these assumptions were frustrated.
许冰冰无法取回那床精心准备的襁褓，临时到镇上买了一床亮橘色的襁褓，原本医院让准备两身，由于款式老旧，许冰冰挑不出第二件，因而作罢。
Xu could not retrieve the carefully prepared swaddling clothes. He went to the town and bought a bright orange swaddling clothes. The hospital had to prepare two clothes.
受访者供图 |许冰冰在老家临时购买的襁褓此外，由于可能被迫要在黄冈生产，许冰冰担心无法领到武汉的生育津贴。
The infant Xu Bingbing bought temporarily at home and fears he may have been forced to give birth in Huanggang, was unable to get Wuhan maternity allowance.
她上网查询，发现武汉现行的生育津贴报销制度，如果要在异地生产领到生育津贴，需要她提前带着资料到有关部门提交，申请异地生产。
She found that Wuhan's current maternity allowance reimbursement system, if you want to give birth in other places, she needs to bring the information to the relevant departments in advance, to apply for off-site production.
特殊时期，时间明显来不及。
Special time, time is obviously too late.
她打电话到社保局咨询，无奈由于春节假期，电话无法拨通，她的疑惑暂时无人应答。
She called the Social Security Bureau to consult, helplessly because of the Spring Festival, the telephone could not dial, her doubts temporarily unanswered.
2月1日，许冰冰仍在搜索回家的路程，电子地图显示路程耗时5小时54分，始终挂着“终点限行，无法避开”的提示。
On Feb. 1, Xu Bingbing was still searching for his way home. The e-map showed that the journey took five hours and 54 minutes.
命运漂流的新生儿交通管制、部分道路封锁的防疫政策，还未来得及针对孕、产妇群体作出变通措施，她们急迫的用车需求难以被照顾周全。
Fate drifting newborn traffic control, partial road blockade of vaccination policy, before the group of pregnant women, maternity measures, their urgent need for vehicles can not be well cared for.
有位产妇的预产期已经过了4天，随时可能破水，社区派车流程繁琐，最终，丈夫直接开自家的车带她去医院待产。
One woman was expected to give birth four days later, ready to break the water, a cumbersome process of community delivery vehicles, and eventually, her husband drove her directly to the hospital to give birth.
疫情正在加重，熊易从医护人员们的防护装备就看得出。
The epidemic is getting worse, as Xiong Yi can see from the medical staff's protective gear.
在隔离病房住了3天，医护人员换了3种颜色的防护服，一次比一次裹得密实。
In the isolation ward for three days, the medical staff changed three colors of protective clothing, each time more closely wrapped.
有好几次，熊易从背后喊护士没能得到回应，他猜测裹在厚厚的防护服里，她可能根本无法辨别声源的方向。
On several occasions, Xiong Yue called the nurse from behind and failed to get a response. He guessed that she might not be able to tell the source of the sound from the thick protective clothing.
住进隔离病房当晚，妻子退烧了，还下床走了两圈，精神状态不错。
Into the isolation ward that night, his wife had a fever, but also left the bed walk two times, good mental state.
熊易挺高兴，但第二天上午醒来，妻子又开始发烧。
Xiong Yi was very happy, but when she woke up the next morning, she began to have a fever again.
医生开了两盒莲花清瘟胶囊，叫熊易和妻子勤用热水洗手，不要离开病房，除此之外，暂未进行其他诊疗方案。
The doctor opened two boxes of lotus rinderpest capsules, telling Xiong Yi and his wife to wash their hands frequently in hot water and not to leave the ward.
隔离病房里没有甜言蜜语。
There is no sweet talk in the isolation ward.
妻子担心把病毒传染给熊易，两人单独相处时，也都戴着口罩。
The wife is afraid to transmit the virus to Xiong Yi. Both of them wear masks when they are alone.
熊易安慰妻子，轻症感染是可以自愈的，只有身体机能差的人才会死，自己身体好，不怕死。
Bear easy to comfort his wife, light disease infection is self-healing, only poor body will die, their own good health, not afraid of death.
夜里，妻子忽觉呼吸困难，开始有了腹泻症状。
At night, the wife suddenly had difficulty breathing and began to have diarrhea symptoms.
受访者供图 | 正在隔离中的妻子初六一早，父亲打来电话，说自己前夜发烧了。
My wife in quarantine was called by my father early in the morning to say that he had a fever the night before.
熊易心里一沉，叫父亲赶快去医院拍肺部CT。
Xiong Yi heart sank, told his father to go to the hospital to take CT lung.
经诊断，父亲双肺感染，因医院没有空余病床，只能居家隔离。
The father was diagnosed with a two-lung infection and had to be kept in isolation as the hospital had no spare beds.
熊易立即打电话给母亲，让她把宝宝抱到自己的房间。
Xiong Yi immediately called her mother and asked her to take the baby to her room.
妻子疑似感染后，他将情况上报给了社区，让工作人员帮忙给房间消毒，他相信自己的房间目前是安全的。
When his wife was suspected of having contracted the infection, he reported the situation to the community and asked the staff to help disinfect the room, which he believed was safe at the moment.
经过几天隔离，熊易和妻子已不再害怕病毒如何在自己身上发酵，宝宝的安置之路悬而未决，才真正让这对父母发自内心地恐惧。
After a few days of isolation, Xiong Yi and his wife were no longer afraid of how the virus would ferment on their bodies and the baby's placement was left undecided.
母亲是父亲的密切接触者，现在虽无感染症状，但也难保是在潜伏期。
The mother, the father's close contact, now has no symptoms of infection, but is also difficult to protect during the incubation period.
熊易害怕，若两位老人都不幸感染，刚出生4天的女儿将无人看顾，家里有正在隔离中的高度疑似感染者，有哪个护工愿意冒险来照顾宝宝。
Bear fear, if the two old people are unfortunately infected, the four-day-old daughter will be left unattended, the family is in isolation is highly suspected of infection, who care workers willing to take risks to take care of the baby.
熊易模仿这几天在网上看到的各式求助信息，在朋友圈连着发了6条求助消息，因为太着急，几次将“初六”打成了“初五”。
Bear easy to imitate the various types of help information seen on the Internet these days, in the circle of friends sent six help messages, because too anxious, several times the "sixth day" typed into "junior five.
有人将熊易的朋友圈截图发到了视频软件上，获得了几十万点赞，求助信息很快扩散，一整天，不断有电话打来，提出各种解决方案，又因为封城、封路等原因难以实行。
A few hundred thousand citations of Xiong Yi's circle of friends were posted on video software, and help spread quickly. Throughout the day, phone calls came in offering solutions that were difficult to implement because of blockades and road closures.
熊易就职公司的领导，提出帮忙联系市妇联开特批函，用传真发到熊易丈母娘家所在的咸宁市，再打印出来，找辆车，开上高速送丈母娘将孩子接回家。
Xiong Yi, the head of the company, offered to contact the FMC for a special letter of approval and fax it to Xianning, where Xiangning's mother-in-law lives.
但武汉到咸宁市两小时多的车程，熊易担心，漫长的路途会增加宝宝的感染几率。
But Wuhan to Xianning City more than two hours by car, bear easy to worry, the long journey will increase the risk of infection baby.
妻子在隔离病房哭，父母在家里哭，熊易感到绝望。
Wives cry in isolation wards, parents cry at home, bears easily despair.
父亲和母亲分别隔离在家中两间卧室，日常沟通只能通过喊话，眼下，他们也只能在各自的空间流泪，无法安慰对方。
The father and mother are separated in two bedrooms and can only communicate through shouts. For now, they can only cry in their own space and not comfort each other.
次日下午，终于有好消息传来。
The next afternoon, good news finally came.
公司帮忙联系了一家医院，如果老人身体状况不好，会派车把宝宝送到新生儿病房，老家的防疫部门也会派车，送熊易的妹妹来武汉照顾宝宝。
The company has helped contact a hospital and if the elderly are not in good health, a car will be sent to the newborn ward and the home immunization department will send a car to Wuhan to take care of the baby.
命运漂流的新生儿暂时有了最优安置方案。
Destiny-drifting newborns have a temporary optimal placement scheme.
尽管熊易心里清楚，计划也许仍抵不过变化。
Though Xiong knows, the plan may not be worth the change.
晚上，终于放松下来的熊易和妻子给母亲拨了通视频电话，屏幕一端，宝宝正恬静地睡着。
At night, Xiong Yi and his wife finally relax and dial a video phone to their mother. At one end of the screen, the baby is peacefully asleep.
妻子有过两次流产经历，曾为未能降于人世的胎儿取过几个名字，其中一个，在今年宝宝出生后被正式使用。
His wife has had two miscarriages and has given several names to the unborn child, one of which was officially used after the baby was born this year.
这位诞生于鼠年伊始的宝宝名唤静姝，寓意是娴静美好。
The baby born at the beginning of the Year of the Rat is called Shing Shu, meaning demure and beautiful.
在几十万陌生人为她着急的两天里，她不哭不闹，一直安安静静的，就像她的名字。
For two days, when hundreds of thousands of strangers worried about her, she did not cry and did not make noise. She kept quiet, just like her name.
*文中部分人名为化名。
* Some of the people in this article are aliases.
撰文 | 刘妍 温丽虹。
Writing & # 124; & # 45; Liuyan Wenlihong.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉新生儿：在危险中降临。
Wuhan newborn: in danger to come.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉新生儿：在危险中降临";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Newborn: AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in danger.
var msg_desc = "孕妇感染，新生儿怎么办？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; pregnant women with an infection, and what about a newborn?;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
