回不了家，我给武汉医生做吃的。
I can't go home. I make food for the Wuhan doctor.
阳关 杨静。
Yangguan Yang Jing.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
武汉封城，阻断了外来务工者回乡团圆的计划，他们留在城内，同样面临食品供应匮乏、日常吃喝的难题。
The closure of Wuhan blocked plans for the return of migrant workers, who remained in the city facing food shortages and daily food and drink.
32岁的陕西人陈静在汉口火车站从事餐饮工作。
Chen Jing, a 32-year-old Shaanxi, works in catering at Hankou Railway Station.
从1月26号至今，她和店里的同事、外卖骑手们免费给5家医院的医护人员，平均每天供应1000份左右的午餐和晚餐。
From January 26 to the present, she, her colleagues and takeaway riders have given free lunch and dinner to staff at five hospitals an average of about 1,000 meals a day.
除工作量增加4倍之外，这群逆行者们也面临感染疾病的风险。
In addition to a fourfold increase in workload, this group of inverse workers is also at risk of contracting diseases.
故事时间：2020年故事地点：武汉封城之后，武汉发生了好大的变化。
Wuhan Hengcheng After the sealing of Wuhan city, great changes have taken place in Wuhan.
所有商铺都关门了，路上一个人都没有，车子也没有，公交、地铁都停了。
All the shops were closed, there was no one on the road, no cars, and the buses and subways all stopped.
到了晚上，整个城市空荡荡的，给人一种很凄惨的感觉。
At night, the whole city is empty, giving a very sad feeling.
我在武汉待了这么多年，从来没见过这样子的武汉2008年，我从东莞来到武汉工作，待了一阵，感到人很舒服。
I spent so many years in Wuhan, never seen such a Wuhan in 2008, I came from Dongguan to work in Wuhan, stay for a while, feel very comfortable.
我觉得武汉和东莞有好大的差别，东莞的工业区，平时你出去，外面看不到人。
I think Wuhan and Dongguan have a lot of difference, Dongguan industrial areas, usually you go out, no one outside.
但在武汉，路上人来人往，晚上也蛮热闹。
But in Wuhan, people come and go on the road, also quite lively at night.
我当时感到很稀奇，就问了我老公一个很蠢的问题：武汉怎么每天外面都这么多人，他们都不用上班吗？这些人在干嘛？我还没搞清楚这些问题，就这样在武汉一直待到了现在。
I feel very strange, asked my husband a very stupid question: Wuhan why so many people outside every day, they do not have to work? What these people are doing? I did not understand these questions, so stay in Wuhan until now.
我今年32岁，是真功夫汉口火车站店副经理，我在这里工作了近9年。
I am thirty-two years old, and I am the deputy manager of Hankou Railway Station. I have worked here for nearly nine years.
前三年我是普通员工，后来升为副经理，主要的工作内容是值班、排班，管理员工。
The first three years I was an ordinary employee, later promoted to deputy manager, the main work is on duty, scheduling, staff management.
1月23日封城那天，我值通宵班，上到1月24日（大年三十）早上7点多，本来想着下了班就回老家吃年夜饭。
On January 23, the day of the closure of the city, I was on the night of January 24 (Year 30) more than 7 a.m., I would like to leave work on the home to eat Chinese New Year's Eve dinner.
我老家在陕西咸阳，我提前一个月在网上抢到票了。
My hometown is in Xianyang, Shaanxi Province. I got the ticket one month in advance.
从武汉回家要12个小时，其实每次回去都很赶。
It takes 12 hours to get home from Wuhan, but every time I go back, it's very busy.
我打算大年三十回去，初一在家呆一天，初二下午就往回走，初三赶回来上班。
I plan to go back to work on the afternoon of the second day of junior high school.
但没想到，很快就传来武汉封城的消息。
However, did not expect, soon came the news of the closure of Wuhan.
消息一出来，我当时觉得不可能吧，就去跟朋友确认，朋友的店也关了，看来真的封了。
As soon as the news came out, I thought it was impossible. I went to confirm with my friend that my friend's shop was closed.
我只好退火车票，打电话给女儿，说妈妈回不去了，她就在家里哭。
I had to return my train ticket and call my daughter, saying that she could not go back, she was crying at home.
我说没事的，等武汉解封了，我再回去陪你。
I said nothing, when Wuhan unsealed, I will go back to accompany you.
我平时很少出门，每天生活在餐厅和住处连成的两点一线中，也很少关注外面的东西。
I seldom go out, living in a restaurant and living in a two-point line, also pay little attention to the outside things.
封城后，公共交通停了，我只能走路上班。
After the city was closed, public transportation stopped and I had to walk to work.
我家距离汉口火车站很近，只有三公里，我走路很快，每天步行三四十分钟。
My home is only three kilometers from Hankou Railway Station. I walk very fast. I walk thirty or forty minutes every day.
我家和华南海鲜市场是相反的方向，而且因为我们家人不喜欢吃肉，所以我从来也不去华南海鲜市场。
My home and South China seafood market is the opposite direction, and because our family do not like to eat meat, I never go to the South China seafood market.
但是我听说过华南海鲜市场在卖水母啊什么杂七杂八的东西。
But I've heard that the South China seafood market is selling jellyfish.
12月底，我听说华南海鲜市场有什么病，被封了，但没想到那么严重。
At the end of December, I heard that there was something wrong with the seafood market in South China.
腊月二十六（1月20日）的时候，我上班时发现突然好多人戴口罩去餐厅，于是知道了疫情，第二天店里就来了疫情通知。
On January 26th (January 20), while I was at work, I found a large number of people wearing masks to the restaurant, so I learned of the epidemic, the next day came the store notice of the epidemic.
大年三十这天下了夜班，我大约上午10点多到家，回去就马上睡觉。
I get home at about 10 am and go to bed at once.
下午四点多钟醒来，发现店长给我打了好几个电话，让我统计餐厅在武汉的员工。
I woke up at 4: 00 p. m. and found that the store manager had called me several times to count the restaurant's staff in Wuhan.
武汉一封，食品供应、员工吃喝都成了问题，餐厅也暂时停业。
Wuhan, a food supply, staff food and drink have become a problem, restaurants have been suspended.
店长的一通电话让我觉得事态好严重。
A phone call from the store manager made me think the situation was serious.
那天晚上我没有出门，醒来后也睡不着了，一直刷手机看新闻。
I didn't go out that night, and when I woke up, I couldn't sleep. I kept brushing my cell phone to watch the news.
年夜饭，我独自吃了碗泡面。
On New Year's Eve, I had a bowl of noodles alone.
女儿年前来武汉看我们，一月十几号和老公一起先回了老家，所以现在只有我一个人在武汉。
Daughter came to Wuhan to see us in January a dozen and her husband went home together, so now only I alone in Wuhan.
最恐惧的是，初一凌晨三点钟我突然醒来，看到很多关于医院的视频和新闻，缺口罩，缺这缺那的，心里好难受。
Most of all, I woke up at 3: 00 in the morning and saw a lot of video and news about the hospital.
之后两天，我也没有出门。
I didn't go out for the next two days.
每天看武汉肺炎的最新消息，越看越心寒。
Every day to see the latest news of Wuhan pneumonia, more and more cold.
实在受不了的时候，就找人聊天，要么看一会儿电视，但电视也看不进去。
I can't bear to talk to someone, or watch TV for a while, but I can't see it on TV.
家里几乎没有别的食物，幸好我提前买了一箱方便面。
There was hardly any other food in the house, but luckily I bought a case of instant noodles in advance.
于是我就每天吃泡面，再加上外面人心惶惶，也不敢出去。
So I eat bubble noodles every day, in addition to the outside panic, do not dare to go out.
还好领导叫我去上班，要不然我在家里要发霉了，就算不发霉，因为这个事人心情也不好。
Fortunately, the leader told me to go to work, or I will be moldy at home, even if not moldy, because this matter is in a bad mood.
1月26日（正月初二）下午六点，店长打电话让我去上班，说要给前线的医生护士送餐，我说好。
January 26 (the second day of the first month) 6 p.m., the store director called me to work, said to the front of the doctor and nurses to deliver meals, I said good.
她说这个是自愿的，不强求，我说没关系，我去上班。
She said that this is voluntary, not forced, I said it's okay, I go to work.
店长又说，第二天要准备1000多份餐。
The store manager added that more than 1,000 meals would be prepared the next day.
我说，餐厅货可能不够，我去看一下。
I said the restaurant might not be enough. Let me go and have a look.
挂了电话，我就出门了。
Hang up, and I'm out the door.
这是年三十后我第一次出门。
This is my first time out after thirty.
我把餐厅发的一次性口罩戴上，又把自己的手套、帽子、眼镜戴上，能戴的都戴了。
I put on the disposable mask issued by the restaurant, and put on my own gloves, hat, glasses, can wear all.
说实话，我也担心被感染。
To be honest, I'm afraid of getting infected.
但是我想，那些医生、护士要接触病人，而我们只是在餐厅打包。
But I think the doctors and nurses need to get in touch with the patients, and we're just packing in the cafeteria.
晚上六点多钟，武汉的天快黑了。
It was almost dark in Wuhan over six o'clock in the evening.
路上几乎没人。
There were few people on the road.
我下楼走到门口，心里就想：我的娘啊，一个人都没有。
I went downstairs to the door and thought to myself, My mother, there is nobody.
心里很不好受，边走边四处张望，这家关店，那家关店。
The heart is very uncomfortable, while walking around, this closed shop, that store.
我走上天桥，突然遇到一个人，戴着口罩，就觉得很稀奇，居然有人能出来走走，可能在家待太久了。
I walked up the runway, suddenly met a man, wearing a mask, feel very strange, even someone can walk out, may stay at home too long.
再一直往前走，看看路上又没人，又没车，等走到火车站，商铺全部关门。
Go straight on and see if there is nobody on the road and no car. When you get to the railway station, all the shops are closed.
旁边的街道只开了几盏灯，灰蒙蒙的。
There were only a few lamps on the side street, gray.
我从来没见过这样的火车站，除了火车站广场上的治安，一个人也看不到。
I had never seen a railway station like this, not a soul was to be seen except for the law and order in the station square.
在我印象中，火车站永远是有很多人的。
In my impression, the railway station is always full of people.
我爬到火车站二层的餐厅，看到一两个人在晃悠。
I climbed to the restaurant on the second floor of the train station and saw one or two people hanging around.
我到店里检查了一下货品，很快就回去了。
I went to the shop to check the goods and quickly went back.
差不多七点多到家，又给自己泡了一碗泡面。
About seven o'clock more than home, and made himself a bowl of noodles.
除了我，餐厅经理还让我叫其他员工回来上班。
Besides me, the manager of the restaurant asked me to send the other employees back to work.
我说那我尽量试一下。
I said I would give it a try.
我跟员工平时相处得都还可以，因为我也是从员工干起来的，我很理解他们，只要我能帮助他们，我都会帮助。
I get along well with my employees because I work for them, and I understand them and will help if I can help them.
但我心里也很忐忑，不知道他们愿不愿意。
But I also perturbed, do not know whether they would like to.
因为这个病已经搞得整个武汉都封了。
Because this disease has made the whole Wuhan sealed.
我还在想，如果员工不愿意，我该怎么去说服？但我真的没想到，他们都很给力。
I'm also thinking, if the staff do not want to, how can I convince? But I really did not think, they are very strong.
我第一个给裴大叔打电话，我说大叔，领导要我们明天上班，可能要打包一千多份。
I was the first to call Uncle Pei. I said uncle, the leader told us to go to work tomorrow. Maybe we should pack more than a thousand.
大叔啥也没问，就说，嗯，好！我当时觉得，大叔好勇敢啊！其他人也是一口答应。
The uncle did not ask any questions, said, well, good! I thought, uncle how brave! Others also agreed.
我们现在一共五个人，都是自愿回来的员工。
There are five of us now, all volunteers.
他们都是很耿直的人，都和我一样，从外地来武汉打工。
They are very honest people, like me, from other places to work in Wuhan.
他们也不担心，就说要把自己保护好。
They didn't worry either, so they said they wanted to protect themselves.
作者图| 餐厅员工正在准备食物我们现在上班，每个人都要穿上防护服，戴口罩，一天一换。
AT RATE & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; We are now at work. Everyone must wear protective clothing, a mask, and a day.
你要出个门，从外面进来，也要把自己全身上下的衣服全部消毒，包括口罩。
You go out the door, come in from outside, and disinfect all your clothes, including masks.
平时餐厅也消毒，但是这件事之后，消毒更加频繁细心。
Dining room also disinfects normally, but after this matter, disinfection is more frequent careful.
只要员工出去，进来就得全身消毒，门把手也要消一次毒。
As long as the staff go out, come in to disinfect the whole body, the door handle to eliminate a poison.
我上班要负责提醒他们，口罩四个小时换一次。
I have to remind them at work that masks change every four hours.
餐厅没有厕所，他们出去上厕所，我一般会站在餐厅前面提醒他们消毒，他们不弄，我就拿个喷壶对着他们喷。
Dining room has no toilet, they go out to toilet, I usually stand in front of the restaurant to remind them to disinfect, they do not do, I take a spray pot to them.
消毒费时间，他们都挺着急打包打不完。
Sterilization takes time. They are all in a hurry to pack up.
我理解大家，他们也理解我，我们希望在保护自己的同时，也别伤害到别人。
I understand you and they understand me, and we want to protect ourselves without hurting anyone else.
留下来的员工，责任心都很强。
The people who stay here have strong sense of responsibility.
我们进了餐厅一般就很少出去，打包完，清理餐厅，消毒，吃中饭，吃饭之后休息一会儿，上厕所，再消毒，进入下午的备餐状态。
When we enter the restaurant, we rarely go out, pack, clean the restaurant, disinfect, eat lunch, have a rest after dinner, go to the toilet, then disinfect, and go into the afternoon to prepare meals.
除了餐厅的员工，其他人都不允许进入餐厅。
No one is allowed to enter the restaurant except the staff of the restaurant.
第一天，美团的外卖小哥不知道，走进来了，我们说不能进来，进来又要消毒。
The first day, the American group of takeaway brother did not know, walked in, we said can't come in, come in again to disinfect.
第二天我们就在门口贴了一张纸，写着“非请勿入”。
The next day we put up a piece of paper at the door. It said, "Do Not Enter."
他们再来，就敲玻璃。
When they came again, they knocked on the glass.
作者图 | 骑手们在窗口取餐我们负责给医护人员免费准备午餐和晚餐。
Ride at the window. We are responsible for preparing free lunch and dinner for our paramedics.
我知道的，有武汉第一医院、第十医院、汉口医院、肺科医院，还有金银潭医院。
I know, Wuhan first hospital, tenth hospital, Hankou hospital, lung hospital, and gold and silver pool hospital.
他们建了一个群，群里有十五六个人，有美团的联系人，有我们店长，也有我们领导等，他们每天沟通需要多少份。
They set up a group of fifteen or six people, who had contacts for the beautiful group, had our store chief and our leader, and how many copies they needed to communicate each day.
现在每天需要供货1000份左右，但只有5个员工，工作量是平时的4倍，所以我们每天都很忙。
Today we need to supply about 1000 copies a day, but we only have five employees, which is four times the usual workload, so we are very busy every day.
我们每天早上7点要到餐厅，一直到把一天的供货量全部完成。
We get to the canteen at 7 every morning until we have finished the day's supply.
最晚9点多回家，正常6、7点。
Go home by 9: 00 at the latest. Normal 6, 7.
我一般都是第一个到，最后一个离开。
I'm usually the first to arrive and the last to leave.
我记得，第一天订单就超过了一千份，我一整天都没吃饭。
I remember ordering more than a thousand on the first day and I didn't eat all day.
因为是第一天做这样的供应，也不是很顺手，就是很忙、很忙、很忙。
Because it is the first day to do such a supply, is not very easy, is very busy, busy, very busy.
那天上午的第一批500份订单，我们压力很大。
We were under a lot of pressure for the first 500 orders that morning.
7点上班，但是做饭、做菜到加饭、加菜，再到打包，最起码也要两三个小时。
It takes at least two or three hours to cook, cook, add meals, add dishes, and pack at least two or three hours.
而且第一批和第二批订单的时间隔得很近，有时只有半个小时或者十几分钟。
Moreover, the first and second orders were placed very close to each other, sometimes for only half an hour or ten minutes.
我们都有分工。
We all have a division of labour.
炒菜做饭、加饭加汤打菜、打包装袋子、计算数量、整理箱子、消毒、搬东西，全部要人做。
Cooking and cooking, adding soup and vegetables, beating bags, calculating the number of cases, disinfection, carry things, all VIP do.
时间快到时，我会催他们，给他们打气，我说“快点快点，大家加油加油，还有多少份多少份，大家尽量赶紧搞，上午搞完了，我们吃顿饭，休息一下，下午继续。
When the hour was near, I would hurry them up and cheer them up. I said, "Hurry up, people, come on, how many more copies there are.
大家都不容易。
It's not easy for everyone.
”我们打包好，美团会派几个司机过来，因为餐量大，来接的司机不仅有开摩托车，还有开小汽车的。
"When we're packed, the delegation will send a few drivers over because of the size of the meal and the number of people coming to pick up the drivers are not only motorbikes but also cars.
之后为了提高效率，我们跟美团商量，让他们提前一天告诉我们每天早上要打包多少，下午打包多少，第一批多少，第二批多少，几点之前打包多少份。
Then, to improve efficiency, we asked them to tell us one day in advance how much to pack, how much to pack each morning, how much to pack in the afternoon, how much to pack in the first batch, how much in the second, and how many before.
我们还让美团的人提前把外卖箱子送到门口，我们喷消毒液，十五分钟后，再把它拿进餐厅，放进食品包装好。
We also asked the group to bring the takeout boxes to the door in advance. We sprayed the disinfectant. Fifteen minutes later, we took it into the dining room and packed it in the food.
等到美团的配送志愿者差不多快到的时候，再把箱子拿出去。
Wait until the U. S. delegation of distribution of volunteers almost close to the time, then take out the box.
否则我们拿自己的送货箱子装，还得再转一次手。
Otherwise we'll have to pack our own delivery cases and have to do it again.
作者图 |骑手们正在往车上搬运外卖领导说，我们可能要持续20天的作战。
The riders are moving to the van to take away the leader says we may be in a 20-day battle.
但上班这件事，一开始我没敢跟家人说。
But I didn't dare to tell my family about it at first.
他们都以为我在家里待着。
They all thought I was staying at home.
我们每天都联系，前两天因为太忙，回去太晚，没有接到视频，就回个微信，说睡着了。
We contacted each other every day, the other two days because too busy, too late to go back, did not receive video, back to say sleep.
但正月初五（1月29日）晚上他们跟我视频时，我忘记脱掉工作服，他们看到了，就说，你上班去了？我说，嗯。
But when they were video-taping me on the night of January 29, I forgot to take off my work clothes, and when they saw it, they said, You've gone to work? I said, well.
他们就说，搞成这个样子你还去上班。
They say you're going to work just like this.
我说没事，我们餐厅搞的蛮好的，又不怎么接触外面的人，每天都消毒。
I said it was okay. We had a great restaurant, we didn't have much contact with people outside, and we sanitized every day.
家人还是说，你还是注意点。
The family said you'd better watch out.
我说我知道，你放心吧。
I said I know. You can rest assured.
家人一开始也以为疫情不严重，等他们发觉严重时，1月22日左右开始打电话叫我回去，我说我回不去了。
The family initially thought the outbreak was not serious, but when they found out it was serious, they started calling me back around 22 January and I said I couldn't go back.
我的女儿今年12岁，在老家等着我回去。
My daughter, who is 12 years old, is waiting for me in her hometown.
她小时候跟着我在武汉读书，但是三四年级的时候，我把她送回陕西读书，现在读六年级。
She followed me to Wuhan when she was a child, but in the third and fourth grade, I sent her back to Shaanxi to study.
一年我们也就见一两次。
We see each other once or twice a year.
有时我回不去，女儿就过来看我，女儿心比较细。
Sometimes I can not go back, my daughter came to see me, her heart is more detailed.
她几乎就是在店里长大的，武汉所有餐厅经理都认识她。
She almost grew up in the shop and is known to all the Wuhan restaurant managers.
之前夏天她放假，有时候没事就跑来店里。
She had a holiday in the summer before and sometimes came to the store without any problems.
有一年，我记得很清楚，她三四岁，我那时还是员工，她说妈妈你好累啊，你去坐着，我帮你擦桌子。
One year, I remember clearly, she was three or four years old, I was still an employee, she said Mom Hello tired ah, you sit, I help you clean the table.
她自己把毛巾消毒，跑去擦桌子，有两个年轻的小女孩坐在哪儿，她说姐姐你让一下，我把下面那个黑色的擦一下。
She disinfected the towels herself and ran to clean the table. There were two young girls sitting there. She said, Sister, please, let me clean the black one below.
当时我觉得我女儿好懂事。
I thought my daughter was very sensible.
还有一年，她十几岁，我上班很忙，没有时间去洗筷子、串筷子、包筷子，她就帮我，有时候店里的那些盘子都是她帮我收的。
Another year, when she was a teenager, I was too busy to wash chopsticks, string chopsticks, bag chopsticks, and she helped me. Sometimes she picked them up for me.
昨天她电话给打不进来，吓哭了。
She cried in fright yesterday when she couldn't get through.
后来联系上了，她就问我，妈妈怎么了，是不是生病了还是被隔离了。
When I got in touch with her, she asked me what was wrong with my mother, whether she was sick or isolated.
我说我没事。
I said I was fine.
今天她又给我发微信，说妈妈，奶奶看了你的微博哭了。
Today, she sent me a message saying Mom, Grandma saw your microblog crying.
之前店里发了一篇文章，写了我们几个员工，我婆婆看到了。
Before the store issued an article, wrote several of our staff, my mother-in-law saw.
我心里其实也担心家人。
I'm actually worried about my family.
大年三十之前，我让他们都去医院做了检查，查了血常规，一切都很正常我才放心。
Before the New Year's Eve, I let them all go to the hospital for examination, check the blood routine, everything is normal I was relieved.
自从我来上班，全体员工都知道了，领导、朋友也知道了，一个个都给我打电话、发微信，我一直没时间回他们。
Since I came to work, all the staff know, leaders, friends also know, one by one to call me, send a letter, I have not had time to return them.
我很感谢他们的关心，但真的是没时间回复。
I appreciate their concern, but I really don't have time to respond.
前两天，我在朋友圈发了状态，说“这两天很忙，没有及时回大家的微信和电话，请见谅。
Two days ago, I was in the circle of friends state, said: "These two days is very busy, not in time to reply to everyone's micro-letters and telephone, please forgive me.
”作者图| 医护人员在排队取餐由于太忙，我也没时间做饭。
The medical staff were queuing for dinner, and I didn't have time to cook because I was too busy.
忙完一天，回去往那一躺，整个人瘫了一样。
Busy day, go back to that lie there, as if paralyzed.
早上旁边的店全部关门，也没有早餐。
All the shops in the morning were closed and there was no breakfast.
前两天，大叔起的早，在家里炒了饭，还给我带了一份。
Two days ago, my uncle got up early, fried dinner at home, but also brought me a copy.
现在人心惶惶的，有谁喉咙痒，咳嗽一声都把人吓一跳。
Now there is panic, there is who throat itching, coughing people are startled.
大叔前段时间喉咙不舒服，有点咽喉炎，今天他在店里咳了两声，我说大叔你别咳。
Uncle a while ago uncomfortable throat, a bit pharyngitis, today he coughed in the shop twice, I said uncle do not cough.
他笑起来，他是故意的，要跟我们开玩笑，就想活跃点气氛。
He laughed. He was trying to make fun of us, just to get the atmosphere going.
现在每天走在路上，看不到人，我就觉得好忧伤。
Now I walk along the road every day, seeing no one, I feel so sad.
这两天武汉出了太阳，好像有个别人会出来活动。
These two days Wuhan out of the sun, as if a few people will come out to activities.
我也有点怕，到处瞄一下这个人，再瞄一下那个人。
I'm a little scared too. Take a peek around the man. Take a peek at the man again.
每次下班回来，忙完了，一个人坐在这里瞎想的时候是我最担心的时候。
Every time I come home from work, I'm busy, and sitting around thinking about it alone is when I'm most worried.
我现在只是想着，这个病赶紧过去，赶紧把武汉解封，到时候就能看到好多好多的人了。
I just think now, this disease hurriedly past, hurriedly unpack Wuhan, when the time will see a lot of people.
- END -口述| 杨静 撰文 | 阳关。
- END - Oral & # 124; & quot; Yang & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 124; & #
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
回不了家，我给武汉医生做吃的。
I can't go home. I make food for the Wuhan doctor.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "回不了家，我给武汉医生做吃的";。
var msg _ title = & quot; couldn't go home. I cooked for Wuhan's doctor.;
var msg_desc = "希望这个病赶紧过去，就能看到武汉城里好多好多的人了。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; I hope the disease passed quickly enough to see a lot of people in Wuhan.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
