疯狂的口罩。
Mad masks.
郑婷。
Zheng Ting.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
只用了8天的时间，一家淘宝店的日销售额从5000多元暴涨到9000多万元。
In just eight days, the daily sales of a Taobao store jumped from more than 5,000 yuan to more than 90 million yuan.
这是新冠肺炎爆发后，疯狂膨胀并异化的口罩市场现状。
This is the new crown pneumonia outbreak, crazy expansion and alienation of the mask market status quo.
疫情突然袭来，口罩这个又小又简单的日用品，成了人们四处抢购的必需品。
When the outbreak hit, the mask, a small and simple commodity, became a necessity for people to rush around.
当药店、超市难以满足需求，现实条件又不允许四处寻货时，海量的需求开始在网络汇聚。
When drugstores, supermarkets difficult to meet the demand, the reality conditions do not allow to look for goods everywhere, a large amount of demand began to converge in the network.
和潮水般的口罩需求一起涌来的，还有焦灼的社会情绪。
Along with the tide of demand for masks, and the anxious social mood.
串联起闭门在家的消费者、紧急复工的工厂和庞大物流网络的网店，则成为需求和情绪输出的终端。
Concatenated with closed-door consumers, emergency rework plants and the vast logistics network of online stores, demand and emotional output terminals.
数以万计的淘宝商家，经历了口罩订单暴增、库存又迅速告罄的焦虑，以及订单被大规模临时征用后无法及时发货的失信危机。
Tens of thousands of Taobao merchants have experienced surging orders for masks, rapidly running out of inventory, and a crisis of bad faith when orders are temporarily requisitioned on a large scale and not delivered in time.
面对倍增的投诉甚至谩骂指责，以及来自电商平台“过分严厉”的监管，有的商家觉得反正找货困难，索性把存量口罩捐赠，不卖了。
Faced with the multiplication of complaints and even abuse, and from the "too strict" regulation of the electronic business platform, some businesses feel difficult to find goods anyway, simply donated the stock of masks, not sold.
也有人选择多坚持一会儿。
Others choose to stick with it for a while.
在北京通州郊区的一处民宅里，李凤三已经在电脑前守了半个月。
Li Feng-san has been guarding her computer for half a month in a private house on the outskirts of Tongzhou, Beijing.
订单数字背后的疫情脉络李凤三没想过，卖口罩也会迎来所谓的风口。
Order figures behind the context of Li Feng three did not think that the sale of masks will also usher in the so-called air vent.
经营淘宝店11年，他一直守着这个小众门类，供应N95、KN95口罩和普通一次性口罩。
For 11 years, Taobao kept an eye on the minority group, supplying N95, KN95 masks and common disposable masks.
除了雾霾季，多数时候每天的营业额在五六千元左右，生意也还过得去。
In addition to the haze season, most of the time the turnover is around five or six thousand dollars a day, business can be decent.
凭借多年的销售经验，李凤三发现口罩的销量和天气、流感等疾病有密切的关联。
With years of sales experience, Li found a strong correlation between mask sales and weather, flu and other diseases.
2019年12月31日这天，店里的销售额超过了1万元，是平常的两倍。
On December 31, 2019, the store had more than 10,000 yuan in sales, double its usual figure.
这一异常引起李凤三关注，把订单的收货地址拉出来一看，发现一个共同点：订单都流向了武汉。
Li Feng three attention to this anomaly, the order of the receiving address pulled out, found a common ground: orders are flowing to Wuhan.
他赶紧查阅和武汉有关的新闻，看到了武汉市卫健委发布的消息：“近期部分医疗机构发现接诊多例与华南海鲜城有关联的肺炎病例，经专家会诊系病毒性肺炎”。
He hastened to review the news related to Wuhan and saw the news released by Wuhan Health Commission: "Recently, some medical institutions have found many cases of pneumonia related to Hai Xiancheng in South China.
李凤三立即通知物流和仓储工作人员，查看库存并备货。
Li Feng-san immediately informed the logistics and warehousing staff, check the stock and stock.
不过第二天，武汉现不明肺炎的消息就平息了，店铺的订单量也开始回落。
However, the next day, Wuhan now unknown pneumonia on the news subsided, shop orders also began to fall.
李凤三就没再继续关注武汉情况，和大家一样开开心心地迎接新年。
Li Feng San did not continue to pay attention to the situation in Wuhan, and everyone is happy to welcome the New Year.
几乎没有人想到，口罩会在20天后成为最紧俏的商品。
Few people expected the mask to be the hottest item in 20 days.
1月20日，店铺销量再次翻番、超过1万元的时候，员工们正在讨论春节放假。
On January 20th, when store sales doubled again to more than 10,000 yuan, employees were discussing the holiday.
他们不知道，订单数字即将开始巨变，一场飓风正在酝酿。
They did not know that order numbers were about to start to change dramatically and that a hurricane was brewing.
图|新冠肺炎疫情正赶上春运在此之前，新冠疫情的信息不明，但一些敏感人群已开始戴口罩上下班。
AT RATE & # # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
当日晚间，钟南山院士面对媒体确认了“人传人”消息，舆论瞬间引爆，线下药店和超市里的口罩短时间就被一抢而空。
Later that day, Zhong Nan Shan academician faced the media confirmed the "person-to-person" news, the public opinion instantaneously detonated, the drugstore and supermarket under the line the mask was snatched short time away.
“新闻发布仅两个小时，平台的小二就在钉钉群里提醒商家，说情况变得紧急，要求我们必须立即查看库存和产能能否跟得上，不能超卖。
"Just two hours after the launch, P2 of the platform warned businesses in a nailed crowd that the situation had become urgent and required us to check immediately whether stocks and capacity could keep pace and not be oversold.
”李凤三回忆说。
"said Li Feng-san.
一天内疫情信息不断：武汉成立新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部；上海、北京、广东首次确认出现新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎案例；国家卫健委发布1号公告，将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎纳入乙类传染病，并采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施……按照电商平台要求盘查库存之后，李凤三隐隐有点兴奋。
For the first time, Shanghai, Beijing and Guangdong confirmed the appearance of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection. The State Health Commission issued Notice No. 1, adding pneumonia infected by the new coronavirus to Class B infectious diseases and taking preventive and control measures against Class A infectious diseases.
他甚至在设想，只要供货跟得上，顺着这样发展势头，很快就能在行业崭露头角。
He even imagined that if supplies kept pace, along with this momentum, he would soon be able to cut a figure in the industry.
但一想到“发国难财”这几个字，他的兴奋劲又消退了。
But at the thought of the words "national wealth," his excitement subsided.
这一天，店铺卖了11万元，这是平时的20倍。
On that day, the store sold 110,000 yuan, which is 20 times more than usual.
李凤三并不知道，这只是疯狂的开始。
Li Feng-san didn't know it was just the beginning of madness.
“很多人几十盒几十盒的下单”从1月20日开始，店铺的销售额开始疯狂跳涨。
"Many people have dozens of boxes of orders." Starting on January 20th, store sales began to jump wildly.
当前国内口罩日产量约2000万只，这个数字放到巨大的人口基数里，缺口显而易见。
With about 20 million masks a day, the gap is evident in a huge population base.
22日全天卖了24万元，23日飙升到100多万元，24日500多万元，25日800万元。
The day of the sale of 240,000 yuan, 23 surged to more than 1 million yuan, 24 days more than 5 million yuan, 25 million yuan.
26日，一下子突破了6000万元，这是平常的10000多倍……因为有长期合作的工厂，李凤三起初一直充满信心，但看到人们如此疯狂抢购口罩，许多人都是一次几十盒地下单，他心里有点没底了。
Because of the long-term cooperative factory, Li Feng-san had been full of confidence at first, but when he saw people buying masks so frantically, many of them were dozens of boxes of masks at a time.
李凤三开始纠结要不要将商品下架。
Li Feng-san began to wrestle over whether to take the goods off shelves.
他简单做了下分析，就打消了这样的念头，他知道一点：订单量越多，意味着更多人想得到防护，“一旦下架，会不会给社会造成恐慌，是不是物资价格要涨？还能否买到口罩？店铺是不是要携款潜逃？”他马不停蹄地把电话一个个打给工厂和原材料供应商，直到对方同意帮自己优先生产。
After a brief analysis, he dismissed the idea that the larger the order, the more people wanted protection. "Is it possible to panic society once you get off the shelves? Can you buy masks? Is the store taking money to abscond?" He kept calling factories and suppliers of raw materials until they agreed to give priority to production.
为了以防万一，1月24日起，李凤三将口罩由现货变为预售，他希望通过20天的预售期来防止出现不能及时发货的可能性。
To be on the safe side, Li will change the mask from spot to presale on January 24, hoping to prevent delays by a 20-day pre-sale period.
春节放假的员工全部被动员起来了。
The staff are all mobilized for the Spring Festival holiday.
仓储本来只有三四个发货人员，直接加了十个人。
There were only three or four dispatchers in the warehouse, ten more directly.
两个客服从轮流值班到同时加班，之后又增加了十几个人。
Two of the guests were on shift to work overtime at the same time, and a dozen more were added.
许多地方封城，除了仓储部门，大部分员工都只能在家办公。
In many places, except for the warehouse department, most employees work from home.
下载订单的人员说，因为打印的订单多，电脑经常死机。
People downloading orders say computers often crash because of the large number of printed orders.
客服小妹妹打字的手指磨出了泡，一分钟的时间里每个旺旺账号都涌入几万人，聊天软件一次次崩溃。
The customer service younger sister's typing of the fingers out of a bubble, a minute each Wangwang account into tens of thousands of people, chat software one after another collapse.
遇到投诉，她急得打电话给李凤三，一边哭一边说：“我是真的回复不过来呀……”图|疯狂涌入的订单面对汹涌袭来的需求大潮，李凤三和团队注定不是在独自战斗。
When confronted with a complaint, she cried and said: "I can't really answer that..." & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
网络的另一端，电商平台的技术、运营和风险管控人员也在各地的家中就地加班，在保障商家顺利经营的同时，快速干掉那些“发国难财”的店铺，实现让商家安心卖，让消费者放心买。
At the other end of the network, the technology, operations and risk controllers of the e-commerce platform also work on-site in their homes to ensure smooth operation of the business, while quickly killing off those shops that "make the country difficult to get rich," thus enabling businesses to sell safely and consumers to buy.
多年的经验让李凤三明白，淘宝会通过人工智能模型评估筛选正品货源充足和服务能力强的商家，让他们优先发布口罩类商品。
Years of experience have taught Li Feng-san that Taobao uses artificial intelligence models to evaluate and screen businesses that are well-stocked and able to service, giving them priority in issuing masks.
在疫情的非常时期，这也是自己的机会。
It is also an opportunity for us in these extraordinary times of the epidemic.
然而，口罩在日常是个冷门产品，平台在几天的时间内卖出了几年的销量，人工智能系统可使用的历史数据有限，大量评估工作得依靠人肉完成。
However, masks are a daily afterthought, platforms have sold for several years in a matter of days, artificial intelligence systems have limited access to historical data, and a great deal of evaluation depends on human flesh.
“每天说的最多的就是不准涨价，不能超卖和风险预警。
"The most that is said every day is that prices are not allowed to rise, overselling and risk early warning.
”李凤三每天要和平台小二反复打电话沟通订单情况和质量问题，非常时期违规从严处罚的警告几乎成了口头禅。
Li Feng-san telephoned P2 every day to communicate orders and quality problems, and warnings of severe penalties for non-compliance were almost a mantra.
“你们卖的口罩是假货”当人们在家门口的药店和超市无法买到口罩，海量的需求夹杂着急切躁动的情绪，一起扑向了网络。
"The masks you sell are fake." When people can't buy masks at drugstores and supermarkets on the doorstep of their homes, the sheer volume of demand, mixed with impatience, pushes online.
李凤三和那些四处调货、坚持售卖口罩的同行们，成为这些需求和情绪的发泄终端。
Li Feng-san and her peers, who move around and insist on selling masks, are the outlet for these needs and emotions.
1月26日，有网友在论坛上发帖说，李凤三店里的口罩是假货，一时间，跟帖无数、骂声四起。
On January 26, a netizen posted on the forum said that Li FengSan shop masks are fake, for a time, with numerous, swearing everywhere.
李凤三觉得委屈，他将工厂生产资质和自家店铺销售口罩的资质证明材料拍了照，发到了网上，试图自证清白。
Li FengSan felt aggrieved, he will be the factory production qualification and their shop sales mask qualification materials photographed, sent online, trying to prove their innocence.
巧合的是，阿里安全在26日公布了问题口罩店铺处理情况，7家店铺分别涉嫌哄抬物价、疑似销售假冒3M口罩、商品过期或劣质口罩以及发货异常问题被处理。
By coincidence, Ali's safety announced on the 26th, the problem mask shop treatment, seven shops are suspected of price increases, suspected sales of fake 3M masks, expired goods or bad masks, and abnormal shipments were handled.
李凤三的店铺，并不在这个名单之内。
Li Feng San's shop is not on this list.
事后他和小二沟通时偶然得知，阿里安全的风控大脑对他的店铺实施了24小时不间断检测，每一件上架产品和每一条买家评论都会经过假货风险评估，“一旦违规肯定会被干掉重罚。
He later learned by chance that Ali's safe wind-controlled brain tested his store 24 hours a day, that every product on shelves and every buyer's comment was subject to a fake risk assessment, "and that if you break the rules, you will be punished severely."
”疫情的紧张形势，让公众对于口罩问题异常关注，假货投诉成了情绪发泄的出口。
The tense nature of the outbreak has drawn public attention to the issue of masks, with complaints of counterfeiting becoming an outlet for emotional outpourings.
商家们对近期口罩居高不下的假货投诉率十分不解，仔细调查后他们发现，绝大部分关于假货的投诉举报，是没有实质证据、一拥而上的情绪化举动。
Merchants are puzzled by the high rate of recent complaints about fake masks and, on closer inspection, they find that the vast majority of complaints about fake goods are unsubstantiated and emotional.
春节期间由于原材料短缺、人工不足等原因，一些商家赶工生产出合格的口罩，却因为包装简陋被误认为三无产品，被指责为假货；有的商家忙中出错，仓库发货把口罩的品牌搞混了，即使口罩的质量没有问题、商家也有相关的资质，但在紧张的气氛下很少有人能耐心地听解释；有同行因为库存被征用，下架了部分商品，买家不停地留言：黑心售假商家，你们不会是携款跑了吧？由于公众关注度过高，一些谣言被不加求证的转发和不分青红皂白的指责，让多年来公众和网购之间逐渐积累起来的信任关系重新变得脆弱。
During the Spring Festival, due to the shortage of raw materials, labor shortage and other reasons, some businesses rushed to produce qualified masks, but packaging was mistaken for three products, was criticized as fake; some businesses made mistakes, warehouse delivery of the mask brand, even if no problem with the quality of the mask, merchants have no qualifications, but the public high-quality, some rumors were unverified and indiscriminate accusations.
李凤三的店铺被指责售假，是因为无意之中配错了一张图片。
Li Feng-san's shop was accused of selling fake goods because she accidentally mismatched a picture.
在和最初发帖的博主沟通解释后，博主主动在论坛做了澄清。
After communicating with the blogger who initially posted the post, the blogger took the initiative to clarify in the forum.
没想到，这次假货乌龙事件的化解，也在无形之中给销售做了一波助推，订单量又开始暴增。
Unexpectedly, this fake Oolong incident, but also in the invisible sales to do a wave of booster, orders began to surge.
1月27日那天，单日销售额达到了9000万元。
On January 27, one-day sales reached 90 million yuan.
“大家都跟疯了似的抢，很多人就是为了囤着。
"People are robbing like mad, for the sake of the hoard," she said.
”客服小妹妹说。
'said the little sister.
合作工厂被临时征用怎么办？李凤三带着小团队忙疯了，订单暴增的压力从单个淘宝店传导至整个公司。
What about the temporary requisition of the cooperative plant? Li Feng-san and his small team went crazy, and the pressure of the surge in orders was transmitted from a single Taobao shop to the whole company.
公司总经理直接打电话给李凤三：“我现在听你调配。
The general manager of the company called Li Feng San directly.
”1月27日，销售额达到了9000万元，总经理却接到家里的电话，奶奶病危。
On January 27, sales hit 90 million yuan, but the managing director got a call from home and Grandma was critically ill.
他急急忙忙赶回去，没见上最后一面，老人已经走了。
He hurried back, but did not see the last one. The old man had gone.
疫情形势一天比一天严峻，总经理仓促办完奶奶的丧事，红着眼圈又火速赶往厦门的工厂。
The epidemic situation is becoming more and more serious. The general manager rushed through Grandma's funeral and rushed to Xiamen's factory with red eyes.
1月20日以后，为店铺供货的口罩工厂从之前稳定合作的两个，变成了四个，三个在厦门，一个在江苏。
After Jan. 20, the number of mask factories that supply shops grew from two stable to four, three in Xiamen and one in Jiangsu.
总经理走访了厦门的三个工厂后，告诉李凤三，产能可以放心。
After visiting three factories in Xiamen, the general manager told Li FengSan that production capacity can be assured.
李凤三心里的石头刚刚落了地，当晚一纸红头文件又给了他当头一棒。
Li Feng San heart of the stone just fell, that night a piece of red paper gave him a blow.
厦门生产口罩的工业区整体被当地政府征用，所有防护口罩将作为应急物资由政府调配，预售的订单面临发不出货的窘境。
Xiamen industrial area of mask production by the local authorities as a whole, all of the respirators will be emergency supplies from the government deployment, pre-sale orders face the predicament of delivery.
口罩紧缺的时候，产能和分配成为舆论的焦点。
When masks are in short supply, productivity and distribution become the focus of public opinion.
普通民众不明所以，一方面质疑一线医护人员的防护物资不足，一方面为自己买不到口罩而惊恐万状。
Ordinary people do not understand, on the one hand, questioned the front-line medical personnel's inadequate protective equipment, on the one hand for their own can not buy masks and panic.
殊不知，网店被征用的生产源头，正是由政府统一调配给一线的医护人员和病患使用。
Do not know, the net shop is requisitioned from the source of production, is the government uniform deployment to the front-line medical personnel and patients use.
这天，李凤三还漏掉了一条信息：国务院办公厅通知延长三天春节假期。
On this day, Li Feng San also omitted a message: the State Council Office informed the extension of the three-day Spring Festival.
这意味着工厂和物流的复工时间可能会推迟。
This means that the resumption of work in factories and logistics may be delayed.
李凤三和工厂最后达成一致意见：紧急招工或劝工人返工，加班加点，在满足征用产能前提下，竭尽所能来满足他们的订单需求。
Li and the factory finally agreed to urgently recruit or persuade workers to rework, work overtime, and do everything in their power to meet their orders while meeting the requisition capacity.
由此额外产生的工人工资、加班费、物流等费用，均由店铺承担。
The extra costs of wages, overtime, logistics, etc. are borne by the shops.
快递本来也是要涨价的，看到他们整个店铺的发货量，主动说按原价给发货。
Express delivery was also to increase the price, to see their entire store shipments, offered to deliver the original price.
遇到顾客因为收不到货发起投诉，李凤三只能逐一电话回复道歉，说明具体情况，解释发货时间不确定，“你实在着急，我把款退了吧。
When a customer complained about not receiving the goods, Li Feng San had to reply to her apologies one by one, explaining that the time of shipment was uncertain.
”让他欣慰的是，顾客撤回了投诉并表示不退款：“我等你发货，以后备着用。
To his relief, the customer withdrew his complaint and offered not to refund the money: "I'll wait for you to deliver the goods for backup use.
”有顾客说，线上药房和线下药店都缺货。
One customer said both online and offline pharmacies were out of stock.
好不容易在网上抢到了，又被取消了发货，理由是“政府调用防疫物资，订单无法继续派送”。
The shipment was cancelled after being snapped up online on the grounds that "the government could not send further orders because of the government's call for epidemic prevention supplies."
朋友圈里不明真伪的货源倒是有一些，但真假无法辨别，因为信任，还是想到李凤三的淘宝店碰碰运气。
Friends do not know the true or false source of goods is some, but true and false can not distinguish, because trust, or think of Li Feng Sanjie Taobao shop to take a chance.
优先给最需要的群体发货在“全民战疫”的背景下，原先口罩的固定使用群体却很少受到关注。
Prioritize deliveries to the neediest groups In the context of the "national epidemic," little attention has been paid to previously established user groups.
1月30号晚上，李凤三处理了一个特殊的订单。
On the evening of January 30th, Li Feng San handled a special order.
广东东莞，一批白血病儿童刚做完手术，需要防护口罩。
Dongguan, Guangdong, a group of children with leukemia just finished surgery, need a protective mask.
有20多个孩子，总共需要口罩数2000个。
With more than 20 children, a total of 2,000 masks are needed.
图|白血病儿童家属发来求助信息自从订单暴涨后，为了缓解供应压力，李凤三开始把预售期从20天延长到30天。
2007-9-25 09: 23 Li Feng-san began extending the pre-sale period from 20 to 30 days to ease supply pressure after orders surged.
即便是这样，仍然有源源不断的订单积压，发不出货。
Even so, there is still a backlog of orders that cannot be shipped.
李凤三看着电脑后台的订单想了又想。
Li Feng-san looked at the computer backstage order and thought again.
目前，自家的口罩都优先向一线的医务人员供给，普通消费者的发货时间遥遥无期，投诉和差评早就一大堆了。
At present, their masks are the priority to the front-line medical personnel supply, the average consumer delivery time is endless, complaints and poor comments have long been a pile.
销售额越高，店铺需要承担的责任也越多。
The higher the sale, the more responsibility the store has to take on.
怎么办？“那是孩子用来保命的啊。
What do you doThat's what a child does to save his life.
”李凤三通知库房，给远在东莞那家医院的白血病孩子们，发去了2000个防护口罩。
Li Feng-san told the warehouse that 2,000 face masks had been distributed to children with leukemia in the Dongguan hospital.
在我们国家每年约400万的白血病患者中，一半是儿童。
Of the approximately 4 million leukaemia patients in our country each year, half are children.
虽然目前治愈率已经达到了98%以上，但他们面对病毒的抵抗能力依旧很弱。
Although the cure rate has now reached more than 98 per cent, their resistance to the virus remains weak.
李凤三负责的店铺，从2014年开始就和各地的医院及公益组织对接，为这些患白血病的孩子免费捐赠日常所需的口罩。
Li FengSan's shop has been docking with hospitals and public welfare organizations around the world since 2014, donating daily masks to children suffering from leukaemia for free.
公司的公益负责人和李凤三沟通时说，在疫情期间，为了让不幸患上白血病儿童的生命安全继续得到保障，已经陆续给1000多个患病儿童赠出6万多只口罩。
During the outbreak, more than 60,000 masks were donated to more than 1,000 sick children to keep their lives safe, Li Feng-san, the company's pro bono director, said.
然而，一线医护人员的口罩需求，也频频亮起了红灯。
However, the demand for face masks for front-line medical staff has also been flashing red lights frequently.
有医护人员称，很多医院的医用外科口罩库存量大概在一个星期左右。
Medical staff say many hospitals have about a week's worth of surgical masks in stock.
疫情全面袭来，全民疯抢口罩，完全不够充足的库存和脆弱的供应系统，一下子就垮掉了。
The full-blown epidemic, with the entire population frantically looting masks, completely inadequate stocks and a weak supply system, collapsed.
医疗前线的口罩供应有这么大一个缺口，对于普通百姓而言，口罩就更难买到了。
With such a gap in the supply of surgical masks on the front line, it is harder for ordinary people to buy them.
李凤三看新闻，有的地方药店需要凭身份证购买口罩，N95口罩一人限购3个，但库存一上架就会售空。
Li FengSan read the news, some local pharmacies need to buy masks ID cards, N95 mask a one-person limit of three, but stock will be sold out as soon as the store.
售空后，排着队的顾客也不肯走，眼巴巴等着下一批来货。
After the sale, queuing customers also refused to leave, looking forward to the next batch of goods.
可李凤三也知道，对于这些孩子和那些在一线奋战的医护人员来说，口罩是他们与死神之间的最后一道防线。
But Li knew that the mask was the last line of defense between them and death for the children and the medical staff who fought on the ground.
而这道防线，相当一部分握在像他这样的口罩商家手里。
And much of this line of defense is in the hands of mask-makers like him.
“只能暂时把线上订单的发货再往后延了。
"We can only postpone the shipment of the online order for a while.
”他说，真的没办法，他们比普通人更需要口罩。
'They need masks more than most people, 'he says.
“在生命安全面前，任何利益一文不值”过去的十几天里，李凤三从最初的兴奋到如今面临两难境地，心情焦灼。
"In the face of the safety of life, any benefit is worthless" in the past 10 days, Li FengSan from the initial excitement to now face a dilemma, the mood is burning.
为了配合政府征用物资的调配，他想再次把口罩下架，可是用户的投诉一定会铺天盖地地涌过来，多年沉淀下来的品牌可能毁于一旦，人们购买口罩的一丝寄望也会被抹杀。
He wants to take the mask off the shelves again to tie in with the government's requisition, but complaints from users are sure to flood in, and the brand that has settled down over the years could be destroyed and the slightest hope of people buying masks erased.
李凤三决定，也和线下药店一样做限购。
Li Feng three decided to do the same with the offline drugstore restrictions.
这是最后的办法。
This is the last resort.
如果疫情继续，更多工厂被征用。
If the epidemic continues, more factories will be requisitioned.
到时候，就再也没有口罩可供发货了。
Then, there will be no more masks to deliver.
限购和延期发货，至少能够给到无助的人们一些心理安慰。
Restrictions on purchases and delays in delivery, at least to the helpless people some psychological comfort.
整个春节，李凤三没出过门，一条拜年信息都没发，停止所有的社交。
Throughout the Spring Festival, Li Feng three did not go out, a message did not send a New Year, stop all social contacts.
他把自己家的一个房间改成办公室，从每天上午10点一直工作到第二天凌晨4点。
He turned a room in his house into an office, working from 10 a.m. to 4 a.m. the next morning.
和他一样高强度工作的，还有成千上万的电商平台小二。
He works as hard as he does, and there are thousands of small two electrical platforms.
从提醒订单上涨，到告知不要涨价，再到预警超卖，还要对假冒伪劣产品严防死守，李凤三每天会接到不下10通来自平台的电话，他们要随时跟踪订单生产和存储情况，还要动态掌握原材料上涨和口罩价格。
From alerting orders to telling them not to raise prices to warning of overselling and guarding against fake and shoddy products, Li Feng-san receives no fewer than 10 calls a day from the platform to keep track of order production and storage and keep abreast of rising raw materials and mask prices.
李凤三的家里人心疼他，劝说他，要不就别干了，现在大家自保都来不及。
Li Feng San's family loved him and persuaded him not to do anything. Now it was too late for us to save ourselves.
在他和平台小二联络的钉钉群里，有商家受不了远超平时的投诉和质疑，加上货源问题难以解决，直接撒手不干了。
In his contact with the platform small two nail group, some businesses can not bear the complaints and challenges far beyond normal times, coupled with the source of the problem is difficult to solve, simply quit.
“成本叠加之后还不敢涨价，因为会被骂发国难财，春节物流还不能及时送达。
"After the cost of overlay is not dare to increase prices, because will be scolded the country difficult money, Spring Festival logistics can not be delivered in time.
”李凤三说，有的同行出了“昏招”，想用999元的高邮费来吓退想购买的消费者，结果被投诉举报涨价，令人哭笑不得。
Li said that some colleagues out of the "faint move", 999 yuan high postage to scare off would-be consumers, only to be complained of reported price increases, a crying shame.
“我们理解现在顾客心里比较着急，火气一点就着，可能说话也不好听。
"We understand that customers are worried, angry, and may not be able to speak well.
有的同行干脆把库存直接捐给医院，不再销售了。
Some colleagues simply donate their stocks directly to hospitals instead of selling them.
”李凤三听到不少同行的牢骚话，但他保证，他们的口罩价格在疫情期间从未涨过。
Li Feng-san heard complaints from many of his peers, but assured him that the price of their masks had never risen during the outbreak.
一边是风口，一边是良心，作为连结消费者、厂家、物流的小小枢纽，李凤三十分清楚，在这样的非常时刻，公司已经不计利益，甚至承担了部分亏损。
On the one hand is the wind, on the other side of conscience, as a small hub linking consumers, manufacturers and logistics, Li Fengshen is aware that at such an extraordinary moment, the company has no interest and even bears part of the loss.
李凤三曾经向平台小二表达了自己的两个忧虑：听说有无良商家趁机虚假发货，卖出后通过不发货大赚一笔横财；还有商家可能会把真假口罩掺着进行售卖，“那种非标准的医用口罩，要是一线的医护工作者戴了，分分钟都会有被感染的风险。
Li Feng-san has expressed two concerns to P2: "I heard that unscrupulous merchants are taking advantage of fake shipments to make large profits through non-delivery." There are also businesses that may carry real masks for sale. "Those non-standard medical masks that are worn by front-line health care workers are at risk of infection in minutes.
”工作人员让他放心，这些问题都有专门的团队用技术+人工的手段持续巡检，发现一起查处一起。
Staff reassured him that the problems had been continuously inspected by a dedicated team using technical and manual means, and that a case had been identified.
每天聊口罩，熟络起来的阿里小二跟他说，这是要命的东西，法律和平台规则之外，总还有良心吧？谁卖假口罩，都该千刀万剐、断子绝孙。
Every day he talked about the mask, and Ali's familiar second told him that it was a terrible thing, and that there was always conscience behind the law and the platform rules.
由疫情引发的海量应急物资需求，是对电商平台的动员能力和经营秩序管控能力的考验。
The massive emergency material demand caused by the epidemic is the test of the mobilization ability and the management ability of the electric business platform.
事实上，自疫情发生以来，平台对售卖口罩等应急物资的动态治理、疏解从未停止。
In fact, since the outbreak of the epidemic, the platform for the sale of emergency supplies such as masks dynamic governance, decontamination has never stopped.
1月30日，淘宝发布临时公告，鉴于春节和疫情的特殊情况，在淘宝购买口罩、体温计等特殊类目商品的，只要订单状态是“未发货”的，可以秒退订单钱款。
January 30, Taobao issued a temporary notice, given the special circumstances of the Spring Festival and epidemic situation, Taobao in the purchase of masks, thermometers and other special categories of goods, as long as the order status is "not shipped," the money can be refunded in seconds.
这帮他减轻了不少与顾客沟通退款的工作量。
This helped him to reduce the amount of work he had to communicate with customers for a refund.
图|一家淘宝店挂出无条件退款的公告2月1日凌晨2点多，李凤三还在公司的群里分配工作，并持续大量订购口罩的原材料，希望把能做的再多做一些。
A notice announcing an unconditional refund at Taobao's was issued on February 1 at more than 2 a.m., and Ms. Li is still distributing jobs in the company's workforce and consistently ordering large quantities of raw materials for masks, hoping to do more.
“现在赚不赚钱没关系的，大家平平安安就好了。
"It's okay not to make any money now, just be safe and sound.
”虽然做着口罩生意，李凤三说，自己并不希望出现这场疫情，他宁愿退还每一笔订单费用。
While in the mask business, Mr. Li says he doesn't want the outbreak and would rather refund the cost of each order.
“在生命安全面前，任何利益一文不值。
"In the face of life, any benefit is worthless.
”*李凤三为化名。
* Li FengSan is an alias.
撰文 | 郑婷摄影 | 唐潇。
At Ren's service, Tangxiao has taken photographs.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疯狂的口罩。
Mad masks.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疯狂的口罩";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Crazy Mask & quot;;
var msg_desc = "我一天卖出了9000万元的口罩。
var msg _ desc = & quot; I sold $90 million worth of masks a day.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
