黄冈死亡脑瘫儿父亲：隔离7天，收到孩子火化委托书/* declared */。
Huanggang Death Cerebral Palsy Father: Isolated for 7 days, received Child Cremation Letter / * Declared * /.
黄冈死亡脑瘫儿父亲：隔离7天，收到孩子火化委托书<br>。
Huanggang's deceased cerebral palsy father: Isolated for seven days, received a letter rogatory from his child; br & gt;
| title       = 黄冈死亡脑瘫儿父亲：隔离7天，收到孩子火化委托书。
& # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
黄冈死亡脑瘫儿父亲：隔离7天，收到孩子火化委托书。
Huanggang Death Cerebral Palsy Father: Isolated for 7 days, received a letter rogatory for cremation of the child.
李怀。
Li Huai.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
方青记得，29日下午，鄢小文给她打电话，“孩子终于被接走了”——他的心情”特别高兴”，至少孩子还活着。
Fang remembered Yan Xiaowen calling her on the afternoon of May 29, "The baby was finally picked up" - "in a particularly good mood," or at least alive.
在多方人士介入的帮助下，鄢成被从鄢家村的家接走，去了县里的指定隔离点（一家酒店）。
With the help of many people, Yan Cheng is picked up from his home in Visayas and goes to a designated isolation point in the county (a hotel).
大约两个小时后，方青收到鄢小文的微信：孩子走了。
About two hours later, Fang received a message from Yan Xiaowen: The child is gone.
方青一时没反应过来，电话拨回去，鄢小文说，孩子去天堂了。
Fang Qing did not respond to the call, Yan Xiao Wen said that the child went to heaven.
“授权委托书”面对“授权委托书”，坐在病床上的鄢小文一语不发。
"Power of attorney" in the face of the "power of attorney," Yan Xiaowen sits on the bed without a word.
他正在湖北省黄冈市杏花乡卫生院的隔离病房内。
He is in the isolation ward of Xianghua Township Health Center in Huanggang City, Hubei Province.
边上站着的，是县残联康复部主任刘长安、华家河镇党委书记汪宝权、华家河镇民政办主任张建。
Standing beside him were Liu Changan, director of rehabilitation department of CDPF, Wang Baoquan, secretary of the party committee of Hua Jiahe town, and Zhang Jian, director of the civil affairs office of Hua Jiahe town.
“遗体24小时内必须火化。
"The body must be cremated within 24 hours.
”鄢小文回忆，对方这样告诉他。
"Yan Xiao Wen recalls, the other side told him.
三人穿着防护服，戴着护目镜和n95口罩。
The three were wearing protective clothing, goggles and an N-95 mask.
他们还说，“这是按照国家对疫情防控的指示和规定。
"This is in accordance with the national epidemic prevention and control instructions and regulations," they said.
”鄢小文的大儿子，17岁的鄢成患有脑瘫。
Yan Xiaowen's eldest son, Yan Cheng, 17, suffered from cerebral palsy.
1月23日，49岁的单亲父亲鄢小文因发烧不退被带到乡里隔离，理由是疑似感染新型冠状病毒。
On January 23, a 49-year-old single father, Yan Xiaowen, was taken to the countryside with a fever and quarantined for suspected infection with the new coronavirus.
当时，他正在外办事，身边是患有自闭症、但具备行动能力的小儿子，没有收到具体文书，父子俩就被卫生院人员带去了县里的定点收治场所。
At that time, he was working outside, surrounded by autistic but mobile young son, did not receive specific documents, the father and son were taken to a designated hospital in the county.
他原本要求也一同带走大儿子——17岁的鄢成一日三餐需要喂食，且无法自理大小便。
He also asked to take his eldest son with him - a 17-year-old Yan Cheng who needed food for three meals a day and was unable to urinate on his own.
“但院方表示没有特殊护理条件，不便接收。
"But the hospital said it had no special care conditions and was inconvenient to receive.
”鄢小文说。
"Yan Xiao Wen said.
于是，鄢成被迫留在家中。
Yan Cheng was thus forced to stay at home.
在没有监护人在身边的情况下，鄢成于1月29日死亡。
Yan Cheng died on January 29 without a guardian around her.
“他们一直催我赶快签。
"They kept pressing me to sign it.
让我写下‘同意火化’四个字，其他什么都不用写。
Let me write 'Agree to Cremation' and write nothing else.
“1月30日下午16时40分，鄢小文在电话里这样告诉我，身在隔离病房的他咳嗽不断。
"On January 30, at 16: 40 p.m., Yan Xiaowen told me by telephone that he had a persistent cough in the isolation ward.
一个小时前，他通过微信发来一张照片：一张只有寥寥数行的授权委托书下方，他已经签字并按上了红泥指印，并写明签署时间：2020年元月30日14时。
An hour before, he had sent a photograph by telegram: at the bottom of a power of attorney, which was only a few lines long, and which he had signed and stamped with red mud, and which he signed at 1400 hours on 30 January 2020.
鄢小文能够意识到，这份委托书一签，孩子的遗体恐怕“很快就会被火化”。
Yan Xiaowen can realize that once this power of attorney is signed, the child's body may "soon be cremated."
领导们来时告诉他，“孩子已经在殡仪馆了”。
When the leaders came, they told him, "The baby is at the funeral parlour."
但何时运入殡仪馆的，鄢小文并没有被告知。
But Yan Xiaowen was not told when to enter the funeral home.
1月30日下午15时30分，就在鄢小文签署委托书一个小时后，我就此事致电红安县新闻科科长，对方回复：“调查还在进行中，没有结果，但很快会发新闻通稿。
At 15: 30 p.m. on January 30, just an hour after Yan Xiaowen signed the power of attorney, I called the head of the Information Section of Hongan County to answer, "The investigation is still going on without result, but a press release will be issued shortly.
”“如果还没有调查结果，如何确定新闻通稿很快会发？又为什么先要求家长同意遗体火化？”对这个问题，科长没有正面回复，挂断了电话。
"If there are no results of the investigation, how can it be determined that a newsletter will be issued soon? Why do parents first ask for permission to cremate the body?" The section chief did not respond positively and hung up the phone.
半小时后，鄢小文在一个微信群内给媒体记者发来信息，“我现在郑重声明，这个授权书是无效的，是迫于压力，我才签的。
Half an hour later, Yan Xiaowen sent a message to media reporters in a small group. "I now solemnly declare that this power of attorney is invalid and was signed under pressure.
”“必须就地隔离”早在1月28日上午，在鄢小文委托志愿者撰写的一封《湖北红安县一确诊新冠肺炎父亲的求助信》中，鄢小文讲述：“由于村里人担心鄢成有被感染的可能性，从23日到27日，村里领导多次协调，仍无法找到能为鄢成解决换洗护理和一日三餐问题的照料人员。
"Quarantine in Place" As early as the morning of January 28, Yan Xiaowen commissioned volunteers to write a "Letter of Help from a Father with New Crown Pneumonia Diagnosed in Hong'an County, Hubei Province.
因为孩子和我密切接触，且出现过1次低烧，也进入疑似人群在家单独隔离，由于没有防护设备，所以无法安排相关人员久留照料吃喝、处理大小便及换洗照料。
Since the child was in close contact with me and had a low fever on one occasion, and was placed in solitary confinement with the suspected group, it was not possible to arrange for the person concerned to stay for long periods of time to care for food, water, urine and washing due to lack of protective equipment.
”为此，鄢小文向社会爱心人士征集防护服。
To that end, Yan Xiaowen solicited protective clothing from caring members of the community.
求助信的最后，他留下了华河镇卫生院刘正磊医生的电话。
At the end of the letter, he left a call to Dr. Liu Zhenglei of the Huahe Town Health Center.
我致电刘医生，电话显示已关机。
I called Dr. Liu and it turned off.
早前他在接受媒体采访时曾称，“并没有物资捐献过来”。
Earlier, in an interview with the media, he said, "nothing has been donated."
身在病房的鄢小文每天忧心忡忡。
Yan Xiaowen in the ward worried every day.
他与另一名疑似肺炎患者同住一间病房，没有感染症状的小儿子也和他们睡在一起。
He shared a ward with another suspected pneumonia patient and his uninfected young son slept with them.
“他没有床，白天就坐在旁边椅子上玩手指，晚上就睡我脚头。
"He doesn't have a bed. He sits on a chair by the side during the day and sleeps on my feet at night.
”唯一令他少许宽慰的是，武汉市残联为此事给他打了几十个电话，到处联系接洽。
The only consolation for him was that the Wuhan FIMITIC had made dozens of phone calls to him and contacted him everywhere.
考虑到鄢成有感染的风险，村主任陈敬友表示，“必须就地隔离”。
Considering Yan Cheng's risk of infection, village director Chen Jingyou said, "must be isolated in situ."
村医正把鄢成转移至镇卫生院鄢小文的好友方青记得，29日下午，鄢小文与她的通话中，他的心情还“特别开心”——“孩子终于被接走了。
Yansheng Yanshi Fang Qing, a friend of Yansheng Town Health Center, Fang Qing remembers that Yan Xiaowen was in a "particularly good mood" when he spoke to her on the afternoon of Thursday. "The baby was finally taken away.
他至少还活着。
At least he's alive.
“那天中午，鄢成被从鄢家村的家接走，去了县里的指定隔离点（一家特定的酒店）。
"At noon that day Yan Cheng was picked up from his home in Visayas and went to a designated quarantine point in the county.
可两个小时后，下午14:00，鄢小文接到了来自村主任陈敬友的电话，“鄢成去世了”。
Two hours later, at 14: 00 pm, Yan Xiao-wen received a call from Chen Jingyou, the village director. "Yan Cheng is dead."
1月23日至1月29日，七天的时间内发生了什么？由于目前无法联系上村委会及镇卫生院，故整理出经由鄢小文及其援助行动的两位领头人（牛仔和暖暖）确认的三方说法。
What happened between January 23 and January 29, seven days? As the village council and township hospitals could not be reached, a trilateral statement confirmed by two leaders (cowboys and warm people) via Yan Xiaowen and his aid operation was compiled.
1月23日：鄢小文要求二姐到家里给鄢成做卫生护理。
January 23: Yan Xiao Wen asks her second sister to come home to Yan Cheng for health care.
当晚二姐给鄢成喂了一次饭，换了纸尿裤。
That night Second Sister Yancheng fed her a meal and changed her diapers.
这一天，鄢家村派了卫生员上门查看。
On this day the Visayas sent a health worker to visit the house.
村主任陈敬友说，孩子有感染风险，目前没有防护服（连县医院也没有），护理人员会有护理风险。
Village director Chen Jingyou said the children are at risk of infection, there is no protective clothing (even county hospitals), nursing staff will risk care.
1月24日：上午，二姑再次去看望鄢成，喂了点食物，同时反馈鄢成“状态还可以”。
January 24: In the morning, Second Maid Yan Cheng again visits Yan Cheng and feeds her some food, while Yan Cheng is "in good condition."
村主任陈敬友也称自己“去喂过一次饭”。
Village director Chen Jingyou also called himself "to feed a meal."
1月25日：二姑因身体不舒服没有去看望鄢成。
January 25: Sister Yan Cheng is not visited by her sister-in-law because she is unwell.
村医至家门口“看了一下没有进家”。
Village doctor to the door "look at the house did not enter."
暖暖发微信请求村主任和镇卫生院去给孩子护理、喂饭，村主任没有回复。
Warm and warm letters to village directors and township hospitals to care for the children, feeding, village director did not respond.
暖暖又联系镇卫生院，“能不能暂时把孩子送去福利院托管两天？”，医院回复“不行，必须就地隔离”。
Warm and warm contact town health center, "Can you put the child temporarily to the welfare home for two days?", the hospital replied "No, it must be isolated in situ."
1月26日：上午，鄢成出现发热症状，具体体温不明。
January 26: In the morning, Yan Cheng shows signs of fever, with an unspecified temperature.
村卫生室人员上门看望鄢成，因为没有防护服，不便给孩子喂食、做护理。
Village health workers visit Yan Cheng door-to-door because they are not equipped with protective clothing to feed and care for their children.
晚20:30，县残联与民政局担心情况不好，指示村主任和镇卫生院院长一起来到鄢成家为其测量体温。
At 20: 30 p.m., FDP and the Civil Administration, concerned about the situation, instructed the Village Director and the Head of the Town Health Institute to come to the Visayas and set up a home to take their temperature.
二者将鄢成接到镇卫生院体检，镇卫生院想要将其转入杏花乡卫生院，杏花乡卫生院答复：鄢成大小便不能自理，担心其污染病房，因此拒绝接收。
Both Yansheng Yan received a medical check-up from the township hospital, which wanted to transfer him to the Xianghua Township Health Center. Yan Cheng refused to accept Yan Cheng because she was unable to take care of herself and feared for her contaminated ward.
村主任将此结果致电方青，方青问他，“能不能把孩子留在镇卫生院，也算救孩子一命？”村支书未讲完，电话中换为了另外一人的声音，对方问：“你懂不懂医？”方青询问对方是谁，没有答复。
The village director called Fang Qing, who asked him if he could leave the child at the township hospital and save the child's life.Not having finished the village branch book, he asked the other person if he knew anything about the doctor.Fang Qing asked who the other person was and did not reply.
之后，村主任把鄢成送回家中，这天晚上，村医给鄢成喂了些蛋黄派。
Later, the village chief sent Yan Cheng home. That night, the village doctor Yancheng fed some yolk pie.
当天，鄢成吃了一个蛋黄派1月27日：下午，鄢小文与村主任联系，提出照料费用由家长想办法筹集，希望尽快安排护理人员上门，并拍下视频照片。
On January 27, Yan Cheng ate an egg yolk pie. In the afternoon, Yan Xiao Wen contacted the village director and suggested that the cost of care be raised by parents.
村主任答复：花钱也找不到护理人员，没有防护服的情况下答应不了这个请求。
Village director replied: money can not find nursing staff, without protective clothing can not agree to this request.
经由一名广州善心人士协调，将此事汇报给中国残联、智协、中精协，当天组建了一个名为“援助湖北红安鄢爸群”，提供的帮助为：联系防护服。
Coordinated by a Guangzhou benevolent personage, the event was reported to CDPF, CPPCC and CPPCC, and a group of Red Anyan Pupils from Hubei Province was set up that day to provide assistance in contacting protective clothing.
当晚，村主任称找到了一名护理人员。
That night, the village director said he had found a paramedic.
1月28日：上午，二姑和村医一起上门看望鄢成。
January 28: In the morning, Ernu and her village doctor visit Yan Cheng.
村医没有进家门，站在门外。
The village doctor did not enter the house and stood outside.
二姐戴了口罩和橡胶手套，一个人进到家里，看到鄢成的头掉在床边上，脸上脖子上都是呕吐物。
The second sister wore a mask and rubber gloves. A man came into the house and saw Yancheng's head fall on the bed with vomit on his face.
被褥、床单全部湿透，身上温度低冷。
Bedding, sheets are all wet, the body is cold and cold.
”鄢成认识二姑，看见二姑时嘴里哇哇地叫着。
"Yan Cheng met her sister-in-law and shouted loudly when she saw her.
姑姑给孩子喂了点水，但是鄢成拒绝吃稀饭，姑姑觉得孩子状况不太好，将此情况告诉鄢爸，陪伴两个小时后离开。
Her aunt gave the baby some water, but Yan Cheng refused to eat porridge. Fanny decided the baby was not doing well and told Yan Dad to leave after two hours.
鄢小文咨询了做医生的朋友，对方判断孩子“可能状况不好”，急需医疗支持。
Yan Xiaowen consulted a doctor's friend, who judged the child "likely to be in poor condition" and in urgent need of medical support.
28号下午到晚上，牛仔拨打当地人民医院的120，被告知“只收急救病人”。
In the afternoon and evening of the 28th, the cowboy dialed 120 from the local People's Hospital and was told to "only accept first aid patients."
拨打县里的110，告知“要向领导反馈”。
Call the 110 county, tell "to the leadership feedback."
打镇上的110，被告知“除非死人，紧急情况才会出警。
One hundred and ten of the townsfolk were told, "Except for the dead, emergencies only call the police.
”鄢小文给县110打电话，对方说，“需要监护人陪同，没有监护人无法出诊。
"Yan Xiaowen called county 110, saying," You need a guardian to accompany you.
”暖暖持续和村主任联系，提出“孩子不愿吃东西，情况很危险，需要住院治疗”。
Warm and warm continued to contact the village director, saying "the children do not want to eat, the situation is dangerous, requiring hospitalization."
下午三点半左右，陈主任、村医请到的新护理人员穿着一次性非连体的防尘罩，头戴红色塑料袋，给鄢成喂了两杯氨基酸。
At about 3: 30 p.m., Chen and the new nurses hired by the village doctor dressed in disposable, unattached dust masks and red plastic bags served two amino acids to Yan Cheng.
医生建议“有消化问题的病人服用氨基酸比较好吸收”。
Doctors advise that "patients with digestive problems take amino acids that are better absorbed."
村主任拍了两张照片给暖暖，无法看到鄢成表情，没有提供孩子的精神状况观察反馈。
Village director Yan Cheng took two photos to warm up, unable to see Yan Cheng expression, did not provide feedback on the child's mental condition observation.
晚上七点，暖暖妈根据110提供的意见，致电村主任指导他“直接打110报警”。
At 7 p. m., Warm and Warm Mom called the village director to instruct him to "call the 110 alarm directly" according to the advice provided by 110.
村主任反馈说，“都没有来“。
"None of them came," the village director replied.
当晚，村主任带着护理人员再次上门给鄢成喂氨基酸，并和暖暖通视频电话。
That night, the village director, with his paramedics, again fed Yancheng amino acids and made warm and warm video calls.
通话持续了十几秒。
The call lasted a dozen seconds.
画面显示，看护人员、村主任一起进了家门，没有后续。
Screen shows that the caretaker, village director together entered the house, no follow-up.
暖暖询问更多细节，陈主任没有再回复。
Warmer asked for more details, Director Chen did not reply.
当晚，鄢小文开通微博发布求助信。
That evening, Yan Xiaowen opened a micro-blog for help.
之后收到县残联主任的电话，“孩子29号可以送到当地指定的疑似人员的隔离安置点（一家特定的酒店），由华家镇卫生院负责安排照护。
Later received a phone call from the CDPF Director, "Children 29 can be sent to the designated local suspect's quarantined site (a specific hotel), the Wah Township Health Center is responsible for care.
”1月29日：上午10时13分，暖暖收到村主任的两张照片，一张在家门外拍摄，一张鄢成在护工身后，看不清鄢成脸部。
January 29: At 10.13 a.m. Warm and Warm received two photographs of the director of the village, one outside her home and one Yan Cheng behind the nurse, tanned her face.
随后村主任发来信息：“小李已经给鄢成喂了氨基酸，但没有换洗纸尿裤。
Then the village director sent a message: "Xiao Li has fed Yan Cheng amino acids, but he has not changed his diapers.
“12时30分，收到孩子被从家里接往集中安置点的照片，镇卫生院院长拍摄，孩子躺在担架上，眼睛闭着，面部发白。
"At 1230 hours, pictures of the children being taken from their homes to the collective settlement were received and taken by the director of the town health centre, with the children lying on a stretcher with their eyes closed and their faces white.
之后，家长们纷纷在互助群里写感谢信。
Afterwards, parents write thank-you notes in mutual aid groups.
下午2点左右，鄢小文接到村主任的电话：鄢成去世。
At about 2 p.m. Yan Xiao Wen receives a call from the village director Yan Cheng.
苍老的父亲2020年1月17日，鄢小文带着两个儿子，踏上了回鄢家村的长途汽车。
Yan Xiaowen, with his two sons, embarked on a long-distance bus to Visayas Family Village on January 17, 2020.
方青记得，鄢成走时还笑得很开心。
Fang Qing remembers Yan Cheng walking with a happy smile.
“孩子健健康康的，至少此前一个月内，从没有过呕吐症状。
"The child was healthy and healthy and had not had any symptoms of vomiting for at least a month before.
”方青在武汉的家有100来个平方，这里是互助组织“蜗牛家园”的大本营。
Fang Qing's home in Wuhan has about 100 square meters, which is the base camp of the mutual help organization "Snail Home."
她有一个脑瘫孩子，在康复训练下恢复了行走能力。
She had a cerebral palsy and recovered her walking ability under rehabilitation training.
2018年，她在自己的住处迎来了另外两名自闭症孩子的家长，其中一位就是鄢小文。
In 2018, she hosted two other parents of autistic children at her home, one of whom was Yan Xiaowen.
这是一群为了孩子放弃了自己工作的家长。
This is a group of parents who have given up their jobs for their children.
为了互相照看孩子，他们一同住在“蜗牛家园”，将客厅和卧室布置成了孩子的活动室。
In order to look after each other's children, they live together in the "snail's home", the living room and bedroom arranged into children's activities room.
每天下午，家长们陪伴孩子在这里做游戏、打非洲鼓。
Every afternoon, parents accompany their children here to play games and play African drums.
方青住在一个小卧室里，阳台被打通后放了一张高低床，鄢小文父子三人就睡在那里。
Fang Qing lived in a small bedroom. The balcony was opened and a high and low bed was placed. Yan Xiaowen's father and son slept there.
在方青的眼中，鄢小文“细心，照顾孩子非常周到”。
Fangqing in the eyes of Yan Xiaowen "careful, very thoughtful child care."
一年四季，他只喂孩子喝温开水。
All year round, he fed his children warm water.
鄢成身上从没有褥疮，“干干净净，没有一点尿骚味”。
Yancheng never had bedsores, "clean and stinky."
鄢小文说，“孩子一整天躺在床上，头部分泌物和汗水比较多”，于是每天换一次枕巾。
"Children lie in bed all day with more secretions and sweat from their heads," Yan said, changing the pillow once a day.
每天晚上，小儿子睡着之后，鄢小文会给鄢成接大便、刷牙，再将大儿子的手指、脚趾，一个个抠开擦拭。
Each night, when her youngest son falls asleep, Yan Yan shuffles Yan Cheng's stool, brushes his teeth, and scratches her eldest son's fingers and toes.
2011年初夏，同在一家康复机构做训练，方青与鄢小文相识。
In the early summer of 2011, Fang Qing and Yan Xiaowen met while training at a rehabilitation institution.
每天下午，鄢小文都会给孩子带来酸奶和点心。
Each afternoon, Yan Xiao Wen brings her children yogurt and pastries.
后来几年中断了联系。
Contact was cut off in later years.
到2016年重逢时，方青感觉“这个父亲苍老了很多”。
By the time he meets again in 2016, Fang feels "this father is much older."
脑瘫孩子可能拖垮一整个家庭，何况一位单身父亲。
A child with cerebral palsy can bring down an entire family, not to mention a single father.
方青有时发现，孩子睡着后，鄢小文会独自站在屋顶上。
Fang Qing sometimes finds Yan Xiaowen standing alone on the roof after her child falls asleep.
“像我们这样的家长，有时候想带着孩子一走了之的想法，没有是不可能的。
"Parents like us sometimes think it's impossible to walk away with their children.
”之所以将互助组织取名为“蜗牛家园”，方青解释，“这群特殊孩子就是一群小蜗牛，走得很慢、爬得很慢，上帝是让我们带着蜗牛来散步的。
"The special kind of children are little snails, walking slowly and slowly. God wants us to take snails for walks," Fang explained.
“在互帮互助之间，家长们形成了亲人一样的感情。
"Between helping and helping each other, parents develop a kinship-like relationship.
1月23日，方青接到鄢小文的电话，他被隔离了，已经被乡卫生院接走。
On January 23, Fang received a telephone call from Yan Xiaowen, who was quarantined and taken away by the township hospital.
“孩子怎么办？“方青问，她的意思是孩子由谁照顾。
"What about the child?" asked Fang Qing. "She meant who would take care of the child.
“后事怎么办呢。
"What will come of it?
“鄢小文自顾自地说。
"Yan Xiao Wen said to herself.
无法确定他指的是自己的后事，还是如果自己死去，孩子该如何生存。
It was impossible to determine whether he meant what had happened to him or how the child would have survived if he had died.
方青没有多想，挂下电话就开始寻求援助。
Fang Qing did not think much, hung up on the phone began to seek assistance.
六天后，鄢小文又给方青发微信：孩子走了。
Six days later, Yan Xiao Wen sends a message to Fang Qingfa: The baby is gone.
方青一下子没有反应过来：孩子是走了，去隔离的酒店了。
Fang Qing did not respond immediately: the child is gone, to the isolation of the hotel.
但很快发现不对，打电话过去，他说孩子去天堂了。
But soon found out wrong, called over, he said the child went to heaven.
确诊为患者鄢家村所在的华家河镇位于黄冈市的西北面，距离黄冈市150余公里。
Located on the northwest side of Huanggang, Huagang is located more than 150 kilometers away from Huanggang.
距离村最近的县城医院内，医护人员尚且穿着防尘服，院长此前对暖暖说，“医院一套防护服都没有了。
"None of the hospital's protective clothing is available," the dean told the hospital, who was wearing a dustproof suit at the nearest county hospital.
”鄢家村并不是个富裕的村子，当地公务员表示“基层工作很难做”。
Visayas is not a rich village and local civil servants say "grass-roots work is difficult."
鄢小文是鄢家村的低保户，每月能够领取840元的补助金。
Yan Xiaowen is a low-income household in Visayas with a monthly subsidy of $840.
当地一位村民在电话里告诉我，2010年夏季一个暴雨的夜晚，鄢小文的妻子跳水库自杀了。
A local villager told me by telephone that Yan Xiaowen's wife killed herself by jumping into a reservoir one stormy summer night.
鄢家村的这桩人命案在当时的天涯网帖里曾经被置顶，也在本地人间一度被热议。
The murder of this man in Visayas was once placed in the end of the world, and was once hotly debated among the local people.
“当时他们一家刚回到村里，没有房子住，想要在闲置的村小学借住，但是被村干部拒绝了。
"The family had just returned to the village and had no house to live in, so they wanted to live in the idle village primary school, but the village officials refused.
也许某些言语刺激了那个女人，也可能是女人对生活感到无望，女人自杀了。
Maybe some words stimulated the woman, or maybe the woman felt hopeless about life, the woman committed suicide.
那位村干部后来换届时自己辞职了。
The village cadre resigned himself when he changed sides.
”该村民称，在妻子死后，鄢小文多次向上级单位反映，希望得到赔偿。
Flanked by his wife's death, Yan Xiaowen repeatedly complained to his superiors about his desire for compensation, the villager said.
“但当时的帮扶力度没那么大。
"But it wasn't that strong.
华河镇是这里财力比较弱的镇。
The town of Huahe is the town with weak financial resources.
没有大的领导拍板，这的确有难度。
It's really difficult without a big lead.
”我就此事再次致电鄢小文，电话再未接通。
"I called Yan Xiao Wen again, but the call was never through.
1月30日晚，当地官方公众号发布推送称，鄢小文被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者。
Yan Xiaowen was diagnosed with pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection, according to a press release on the evening of January 30.
同时，鄢小文删除了所有微博。
Yan Xiao Wen, meanwhile, deleted all microblogs.
＊应受访者要求，方青为化名撰文｜李怀编辑｜韩熙图片由受访者提供。
* At the request of the interviewee, Fang Qing wrote for her pseudonym, less than three times.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄冈死亡脑瘫儿父亲：隔离7天，收到孩子火化委托书。
Huanggang Death Cerebral Palsy Father: Isolated for 7 days, received a letter rogatory for cremation of the child.
