武汉：“打烊”的城市里，不打烊的外卖。
Wuhan: "Closed" in the city, not closed take-out.
成琨 陈晓妍。
Jade Chen Xiaoyan.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
突发的疫情搅乱了这个春节。
The sudden outbreak of disease disturbed the Spring Festival.
武汉封城后，居民被迫留在家中、医护人员无法离开工作岗位，吃饭成了问题。
After the closure of Wuhan, residents were forced to stay at home, medical staff were unable to leave their jobs, eating became a problem.
与此同时，餐饮、休闲、商超便利等生活服务业也面临巨大考验。
At the same time, catering, leisure, super-convenient and other domestic services are facing a huge test.
作为居民和商家的连接点，一群隶属于本地生活服务平台的留守外卖小哥站了出来。
As a link between residents and businesses, a group of local living services platform left behind to stay out of the small brother stand out.
经历了短期的惊慌之后，他们凭借勇气在大街小巷中穿行，意外见证了一座城市力量的复苏和人性的善意。
After a short period of panic, they have braved the streets to witness the revival of the power of a city and the goodwill of humanity.
“从服务医护到服务城市，再到服务行业，商家伙伴们的生命线就是我们的生命线。
"Our lifeline is the lifeline of our business partners, from service providers to service cities to service industries.
”外卖平台饿了么如此总结。
The takeaway platform is hungry.
在疫情过去之前，唯有共度时艰。
Until the epidemic is over, it will be difficult.
我们找到了几位身处武汉的外卖骑手和饭店老板，通过他们的视角，感受这座在肺炎阴霾中努力呼吸的城市。
We found a couple of Wuhan-based takeaway riders and restaurant owners to see through their eyes the city struggling to breathe in the haze of pneumonia.
封城 1月22日-23日“不好意思，您这里送不了，您取消订单吧。
Sealing the City January 22-23 "Sorry, you can't deliver here, please cancel your order.
”1月22日下午，饿了么配送员陈琦收到了新订单提醒。
On the afternoon of January 22, did Chen Qi, the delivery clerk, receive a reminder of the new order.
有人订了一份大米先生家的煲仔饭，送货地址是武汉一栋民用机构大楼的4楼。
Someone ordered a cookie for Mr. Rice's house. The delivery address is on the 4th floor of a civil building in Wuhan.
“你要是不给我送餐，我就给你打差评！”尽管电话另一头的男人压低了声音，陈琦还是听出了他的不满和急躁。
"If you don't bring me a meal, I'll give you a bad review!" Chen Qi recognized his discontent and impatience, even though the man on the other end of the line lowered his voice.
在几小时前，饿了么刚刚公布了疫情应对的进一步措施，其中一条是：为确保安全，暂停部分敏感地区的外卖配送服务。
Just a few hours ago, hungry people announced further steps to deal with the outbreak, including a moratorium on take-out distribution services in some sensitive areas to ensure safety.
新型冠状肺炎人传人的消息确定后，武汉全城人瞬间陷入恐慌。
After the news of the new type of coronary pneumonia person-to-person confirmed, the whole city of Wuhan immediately fell into panic.
送外卖感染风险可能更高，陈琦犹豫了一会儿还是想拒绝，道歉、解释了一番。
The risk of infection may be higher, Chen Qi hesitated for a while or would like to refuse, apologize, explain a bit.
此时，男客户语气缓和了下来，无奈地说自己已经被拒单两次了，他所在周边的餐厅都已关门，实在没办法了。
At this point, male customers tone down, helplessly said that they have been rejected twice, his surrounding restaurants have been closed, there is no way.
“我家孩子得吃饭啊。
"My children have to eat.
”陈琦想到了父母，一下子就心软了，答应了配送，戴了两层口罩出门。
Chen Qi thought of his parents, suddenly softened, agreed to the delivery, wearing a two-storey mask out.
当天深夜，武汉就宣布了封城令。
Late that night, Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
21岁的陈琦是土生土长的武汉人，成为外卖骑手后，更是对这座城市的每一个细节都无比熟悉。
Chen Qi, a 21-year-old native of Wuhan, became a take-out rider and knows every detail of the city.
他初入职场几个月，原本做好了春节加班的打算，白天上班，晚上回家和父母团聚。
He started work a few months ago, the original intention of working overtime for the Spring Festival, day work, at night home and parents reunion.
突如其来的疫情打乱了他的计划——如今，陈琦成天在外面跑，担心自己把病毒带回家，只好继续住在合租屋里。
The outbreak disrupted his plans to stay in a shared house now that Chen Qi is out running all day worrying about taking the virus home.
草木皆兵的形势下，武汉市民起初都不太敢点外卖，陈琦接到的多是超市、便利店的“大单”。
The situation, Wuhan city people are not too bold to take out at the beginning, Chen Qi is more than supermarket, convenience store "big order."
有一个22号的单来自协和医院门诊部，他赶到中百超市提货部，地上放着六个装满零食、面包、冲剂饮料的大塑料袋，旁边还有两箱牛奶。
There was a size 22 bill from the clinic at Concorde Hospital. He rushed to the pick-up department of the Central Perk Supermarket. On the floor were six large plastic bags filled with snacks, bread and punch, and two cases of milk.
陈琦皱了下眉头，以为这是有人去医院拜年，买的年货。
Chen Qi frowned, thinking that this is someone to visit the hospital, buy the New Year goods.
外面正下着雨，陈琦担心装货不方便，给客户打电话说明配送困难。
It is raining outside, Chen Qi worried about loading inconvenient, call customers to explain delivery difficulties.
没想到，接电话的是一位女医生：“我们一直都没吃饭，累得受不了了，你帮帮忙送过来吧。
I didn't expect to answer the phone. A female doctor answered, "We haven't had any dinner for a long time.
”女医生想到自己写着“20层”，怕陈琦有负担，紧接着说：“你送到门口给我打电话，我自己找个推车下去拿。
The woman wanted to write "20 stories" and feared Chen Qi would be burdened. Then she said, "Send to the door and call me.
”陈琦一听是医生的订单，赶紧找了一卷绷带，把牛奶固定在车前，又用松紧带把大包小包捆在车子后面，骑上车出发了。
"Chen Qi, listening to the doctor's order, quickly found a roll of bandages and fixed the milk in front of the car.
生怕东西掉了，平时只需要4分钟的路程，他骑了一刻钟。
He rode a quarter of an hour, for fear that something might fall.
卸下货物后，陈琦一个手指拎一样东西，只空出两个小拇指，径直走进门诊部侧面的职工电梯。
After unloading the goods, Chen Qi a finger to carry a thing, only two small thumbs, straight into the side of the clinic staff elevator.
电梯在20层停下，陈琦意识到自己没消毒，踏出一步便不再往科室里走。
The elevator stopped on the 20th floor. Chen Qi realized that he had not disinfected himself.
出来取货的是一位年轻护士，她快步走到陈琦面前，弯腰拿东西时看见了陈琦勒红的双手，说了很多感谢的话。
It was a young nurse who came out to pick up the goods. She walked quickly to Chen Qi and, bending over to pick things up, saw her hands and said a lot of thanks.
隔着口罩，陈琦咧着嘴笑了。
Through the mask, Chen Qi grinned.
走出面向解放大道的门诊楼，陈琦骑车拐到了新华路上，瞟了几眼医院侧面的发热门诊。
Out of the outpatient building facing Liberation Avenue, Chen Qi turned to Xinhua Road, glancing at the hospital side of the fever clinic.
平时送餐，陈琦经常路过这里，这座老楼总是很安静，少有人进出。
Usually delivers the meal, Chen Qi frequently passes here, this old building is always very quiet, few people enter or leave.
可是这天，门口的长队缓缓向内蠕动，人人戴着口罩。
On this day, however, the long queue at the door slowly crawled inwards, all wearing masks.
晚上收工后，陈琦看新闻，全国确诊473例，比前两天又多了一倍。
At the end of the evening, Chen Qi read the news, 473 cases diagnosed nationwide, more than double the previous two days.
第二天早上，站长照例在工作群提醒在岗骑手，开工前到站点完成领取口罩、测量体温、喷上衣物消毒剂等“必备流程”。
The next morning, the stationmaster routinely reminds riders at work to complete the "necessary procedures" of collecting masks, measuring body temperature and spraying disinfectant before starting work.
10点，武汉全市公共交通停运。
At 10 o'clock, Wuhan city public transportation stopped.
空无一人的大马路，和往年春节的武汉看上去差不多，但陈琦还是觉得格外陌生，一点儿年味都没有。
The empty road, and the Spring Festival in Wuhan as usual look similar, but Chen Qi still feel very strange, a little bit annualized.
受访者供图|武汉封城后的夜晚新年 1月24日-25日封城令下，原本零星开着的餐厅陆续关闭了大门。
At the end of the night after the closure of Wuhan on January 24-25, restaurants that had been opened sporadically were closed.
大年三十，在一线与疫情战斗的医护人员，晒出来的年夜饭只有饼干、方便面。
Year 30, in the first line of battle with the outbreak of medical personnel, bask out the New Year's dinner only biscuits, instant noodles.
肥肥虾庄石牌岭店的老板看到这些图片，心底觉得难受，连夜找人做好了400份饭送往陆总医院。
Fat Shrimp Shrimp Village Shijieling shop owners see these pictures, the bottom of my heart feel uncomfortable, even the night to find someone to prepare 400 meals sent to the General Hospital.
今年的除夕夜，吃上一顿团圆饭成了奢侈的事。
On New Year's Eve this year, eating a reunion dinner has become a luxury.
陈琦和同事送完了农历旧年的最后一单，各自回到了出租屋。
Chen Qi and his colleagues finished the last Lunar New Year, each returned to the rental housing.
室友老秦做了几个拿手菜，俩人就着一瓶酒聊天，拿春晚作背景声。
Roommate Qin made a few special dishes, two people with a bottle of wine chat, Chunwan as the background sound.
老秦说，想老婆孩子了。
Old Qin said he wanted his wife and children.
老秦是山东人，想趁过年多挣几天钱，把家人接来武汉玩，没想到被困在城中。
Lao Qin was from Shandong Province. He wanted to earn more money during the Spring Festival. He took his family to Wuhan to play, but he was trapped in the city.
两个孩子在视频通话里给老秦拜年。
The two children paid a New Year call to Old Qin on the video.
陈琦见老秦眼睛红了，跟他开玩笑：“等五月份天气热了，病毒没有了，到时候你就回家吧。
Chen Qi saw Laoqin's eyes red and joked with him: "When the weather is hot in May and the virus is gone, you can go home then.
”疫情扩大化后，饿了么等企业调整了配送策略。
After the epidemic spread, hungry companies adjusted their distribution strategies.
在封闭的武汉城里，饿了么的众多骑手都被动员起来。
In the closed city of Wuhan, hungry riders have been mobilized.
为了打赢这场持久战，公司为他们做好了后备支撑，封城之前，武汉地区已将口罩、消毒液、体温计等物品配备完毕。
In order to win the protracted war, the company prepared for them backup, before sealing the city, Wuhan area has been respirator, disinfectant, thermometer and other items equipped.
大年初一，城市经理带着应急小组又从仙桃市调度了30万个口罩，确保物资储备能使用到2月底。
On New Year's Day, city managers and emergency teams dispatched 300,000 masks from Xiantao City to ensure supplies can be used until the end of February.
和老秦一样，36岁的江涛今年也独自留在了武汉。
Like the old Qin Dynasty, Jiang Tao, 36, stayed alone in Wuhan this year.
往年大年初一，是江涛一家人走街串巷拜年的日子。
In previous New Year's Day, Jiang Tao family walking the streets to pay New Year's Day.
今年这天早上八点多，江涛就接了一单跑腿代购，订单详情上列了连花清瘟胶囊等四种药品。
This morning more than 8: 00, Jiang Tao received a single run on behalf of the purchase, order details listed Lianhuaqing Capsule and other four drugs.
江涛负责的区域离协和、同济不远。
Jiang Tao is responsible for the region from Concorde, Tongji not far.
随着储备的快速消耗，居民区对菜品、药物的需求量变大，但是很多人不敢出门采购，只好求助于外卖和代购。
With the rapid depletion of reserves, residential areas for vegetables, drugs, but many people do not dare to go shopping, had to resort to take-out and buying.
有一次，他帮客户去超市抢购，40斤大米、一壶油、肉和蔬菜，加起来先垫付了1065元。
On one occasion, he helped customers to the supermarket to buy, 40 jin of rice, a pot of oil, meat and vegetables, together with an advance of 1065 yuan.
蔬菜和特殊药品越来越不好买，附近的药店大都关了门，但他还是决定试一试。
Vegetables and specialty drugs were getting harder to buy, and most of the nearby pharmacies were closed, but he decided to give it a try.
从解放大道找到万松园小区，再到西北湖，药店要么没营业，要么没货。
From Liberation Boulevard to the Marunggarden district to the Northwest Lake, pharmacies are either closed or out of stock.
眼看已经快十点了，他主动向客户提出：“我这儿离协和近，要不我去医院给您看看？”客户很意外，给他强调：“那你一定要做好防护，口罩多戴几个。
It was almost ten o'clock when he volunteered, "I'm near Concorde, why don't I go to the hospital and show it to you?" The customer was surprised and stressed to him, "Then make sure you protect yourself and wear a few more masks.
”十分钟后，江涛站在了协和医院发热门诊的挂号队伍里。
Ten minutes later, Jiang Tao stood in the register of the fever clinic at Concorde Hospital.
一片混乱，江涛想不出其他的形容方式。
The chaos, Jiang Tao can not think of any other way to describe.
不时有救护车的声音响起，穿防护服的医生穿梭在人堆里，身旁全是等着治疗的病人。
Ambulances rang from time to time, and doctors in protective clothing shuttled through the crowd, surrounded by patients waiting for treatment.
江涛顾不上害怕，挂了号，按护士提示找医生开药，简短几句交流，他才知道单子上是“防疫情”的药。
Jiang Tao did not fear, hung up the number, according to the nurse prompted doctors to prescribe drugs, a few short exchanges, he knew that the list is "epidemic prevention" drugs.
付费取完药，已经过了十一点。
It's past eleven o'clock.
受访者供图|武汉协和医院发热门诊到了客户家门口，江涛不敢离太近，伸手把药递进去。
The interviewee at Wuhan Concorde Hospital's fever clinic reached the customer's door. Jiang Tao was too close to him to hand in the medicine.
这家女主人倒是不介意地敞开了门，一边给江涛转账，一边问：“你吃饭没有？”“我都十几天没见过米饭咯。
The hostess, however, kindly opened the door and made a transfer to Jiang Tao, saying, "Have you eaten?" "I haven't seen rice in ten days.
”想到自己囤的方便面也快见底了，江涛有些不好意思。
"Jiang Tao was embarrassed to think that her instant noodles were bottoming out, according to the source.
“我估计你也吃不上饭，外面哪还有吃饭的地方，你等等，我刚好留了一点饭菜。
"I reckon you can't eat either. There's no place out there for dinner. You wait. I've just saved a little food.
”女客户从餐桌上拿来装好的盒饭，“我在饿了么上面看着你的车，一下子去这个地方，一下子去那个地方，折腾一上午，真是辛苦了。
"The woman brought the packed lunch box from the table." I'm hungry, I'm looking at your car, I'm going to this place, I'm going to go out there all of a sudden, it's been a hard morning.
”中午回到宿舍，江涛吃上了新年第一顿饭。
Back at the dormitory at noon, Jiang Tao had her first New Year meal.
他给妻子发去消息，分享了这份感动：“世界上还是有好人啊，你为人家付出了，人家也能体谅你。
He sent a message to his wife, shared this move: "There are still good people in the world, you pay for others, people can also understand you.
”吃完午饭，江涛准备继续干活。
After lunch, Jiang Tao got ready to go on working.
打开App接单时，弹出了一条消息：饿了么宣布推出全国骑手特殊关爱保障计划，专门寻求保险供应商为骑手投了“肺炎险”。
When the App order was opened, a message popped up: Hungry!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
江涛没有细看，像寻常一样，看到官方提示就快速填写了个人信息，新的订单在等着他出门。
Jiang Tao did not look carefully, as usual, to see the official prompt to fill in personal information quickly, new orders are waiting for him to go out.
支援 1月26日-27日大年初三的武汉街道一片寂然。
The Wuhan street in support of January 26-27 is desolate.
老乡鸡饭馆的卷闸门被轰地拉开，店员们钻进厨房，闲置了几天的炉灶，又架起滚着热鸡汤的砂锅。
The sluice gates of the Chicken Restaurant were blasted open, shop assistants plunged into the kitchen, stoves lay idle for several days, and casseroles of hot chicken soup were set up.
两个多小时后，这些饭菜被专车送往武汉各大医院。
After more than two hours, the meals were transported by special bus to major hospitals in Wuhan.
在此之前，疫情肆虐，100多家老乡鸡连锁店在节前纷纷关闭。
Prior to the outbreak, more than 100 township chicken chains were closed before the festival.
和其他同行一样，这家全国知名的连锁快餐企业饱受打击。
Like others, the nation's leading fast-food chain has been hit hard.
一筹莫展之际，老乡鸡店长李神龙看到了“医护人员吃不上饭”的新闻。
At the same time, the township chicken store manager Li Shenlong saw the "medical staff do not have food" news.
除夕夜，许多医护人员刚刚从前线撤下，搁在桌子上的“年夜饭”，只有桶装方便面。
On New Year's Eve, many paramedics had just pulled out of the front line and laid down their "New Year's Eve meal" on the table, in barrels of instant noodles.
他立即向上级请示临时开店，为医护人员供餐。
He immediately asked his superiors to open a temporary shop to feed the medical staff.
李神龙在工作群里写了一大段话，发动留在武汉的同事一起参加。
Li Shenlong in the work group wrote a paragraph, the colleagues left in Wuhan to participate.
手机刚刚放下，很快有员工打来电话：“店长，我能去。
The phone had just been put down when an employee called and said, "Shop Leader, I can go.
”李神龙没有立刻答应，他怕员工一时冲动，一再强调了留下来工作的风险，最后再问：“还来吗？”次日清晨，员工们全部到岗。
"Li did not immediately agree, fearing that his employees might be tempted to stay on the job, he finally asked," Are you coming back? "The next morning, the employees were all on duty.
网上下单后，电话那头的医生没来得及说话，直接哭了出来。
After ordering online, the doctor at the other end of the line cried out before he could speak.
然而，整个老乡鸡武汉区域只有6辆餐车，每辆车只装得下30多份。
However, the whole township chicken Wuhan area only 6 dining cars, each car can only hold more than 30.
李神龙强忍眼泪，开着自己的私家车给医院送餐。
Li Shenlong fought back tears and drove his private car to deliver food to the hospital.
受访者供图|老乡鸡为医护人员备餐1月26日，饿了么宣布开通“外卖极速上线”服务，商家们提交经营资质、身份信息，最快可以在申请的当天就开通外卖服务。
Did you get hungry January 26, when you announced you opened Take Out Extremely Fast Take Out service. Businesses can submit business qualifications, identity information and start takeout service as early as the day of application.
消息发出之后，有百余家餐厅、便利店递上了上线申请。
After the news, more than 100 restaurants, convenience stores handed in online applications.
外卖骑手们戴上头盔，系好口罩，骑上电动车出动，接过最后一站的接力棒。
The takeaway riders put on helmets and masks and mounted electric vehicles to take over the baton at the last stop.
待在老家过年的郑琪接到了紧急命令，他被临时调去对接饿了么物流。
Zheng Qi, who stayed in her hometown for the New Year, received an emergency order. Was he temporarily transferred to docking and hungry?
本该睡懒觉的早晨被闹钟铃声打破，他翻起身，坐在电脑前。
The morning after he should have slept in was broken by the alarm clock, he got up and sat down in front of the computer.
早上九点过后，餐厅、站长的消息一齐涌过来，不到半个小时，七八个医院的诉求猛涨。
After 9 a. m., news of the restaurant and the stationmaster poured in, and in less than half an hour the claims of seven or eight hospitals soared.
中午十二点，用餐高峰期过去，郑琪才顾得上吃一口饭。
At twelve o'clock, when the meal rush was over, Zheng Qi was ready for a bite to eat.
父母不解，语气里有些责怪：“为什么在家里还要忙七七八八的事情？”郑琪顾不上其它，他忙着调度骑手。
The parents do not understand, tone of some blame: "Why at home still busy seven or eight things?" Zheng Qi ignored the rest, he was busy dispatching riders.
站点自掏腰包采购了270份盒饭，亟需送往协和医院在内的三家医院。
The site purchased 270 boxes of meals from its own pocket and urgently needed to be transported to three hospitals, including Concorde Hospital.
每天来自医院的订单超过2000份。
More than 2,000 orders come from hospitals every day.
起初，为了打消骑手们的顾虑，饿了么平台为他们配备了手套、口罩等设备，在行业里率先开发了“安心送”的产品，支持“无接触”送餐，只需把饭菜放在医院门口，又在群里开了动员大会。
At first, hungry riders were provided with gloves, masks and other equipment, and the platform was the first in the industry to develop a "peace of mind" product that supported "no contact" meals by placing meals outside the hospital gate and organizing a rally in the group.
配送前需要收集骑手名单，每次站长把医院的配送需求发到工作群里，30秒后，底下已经集齐所有骑手，比其他类型的订单都快。
Before delivery, a list of riders needs to be collected, and each time the stationmaster distributes the hospital's distribution requirements to the work group, 30 seconds later, all riders have been assembled below, faster than any other type of order.
接近饭点，协和医院门诊楼外停着几辆蓝色的电动车。
Near dinner several blue electric cars stopped outside the clinic building of Concorde Hospital.
走到大门前，骑手舒雷有点忐忑。
Arriving at the gate, the rider Shu Lei a little perturbed.
医院设置了隔离区，骑手们只需远远地站着，等着护士下楼取餐即可。
The hospital has set up a quarantine area where riders can just stand at a distance and wait for the nurse to come downstairs to get their meals.
尽管如此，家人仍不同意他出入医院等场所，为了正常送餐，舒雷只好瞒着家人。
Despite this, his family did not agree to his access to hospitals and other places, in order to deliver normal meals, Shule had to hide from his family.
纸箱勉强装下几十个饭盒，下楼取餐的只有两位护士。
Dozens of boxes were barely packed and only two nurses went downstairs to collect the meal.
拎过袋子，护士们告诉他，在此之前，医院里的人只能靠饼干和方便面度日。
When he picked up the bag, the nurses told him that before that, people in the hospital had to live on biscuits and instant noodles.
工作强度太大，医疗人员的营养没法跟上。
The intensity of the work is too great to keep up with the nutrition of the medical staff.
护士的话让他感到心酸，愧疚感与责任感渐渐击退了对病毒的恐惧。
The nurse's words made him feel sad, guilt and a sense of responsibility gradually repelled the fear of the virus.
力量 1月28日-29日1月29日，湖北省确诊病例达3554例，疫情再升级。
Strength January 28-29 January 29, Hubei Province confirmed cases of 3554 cases, the epidemic has further escalated.
对外界而言，武汉是一座危城。
To the outside world, Wuhan is a dangerous city.
而提供服务的餐饮从业者们最明白，灾难总会过去，温暖和力量正一点点在这座城市重新生长出来。
And service providers know best that disaster is over and that warmth and strength are building up again in the city.
被疫情打懵的武汉居民们，开始用自己的方式表达对一线工作人员的关心。
Wuhan residents, stunned by the epidemic, began to express their own way of caring for the front-line staff.
封城的前七天中，饿了么外卖单上备注“武汉加油”等字样的订单有5504条，备注“注意疫情”的有4563条。
During the first seven days of the city, were there 5,504 orders marked "Come on Wuhan" on the delivery list, and 4,563 "Notice the epidemic" notes.
一名骑手经过武汉爱家国际华城，夜幕沉沉，他点燃一根烟，坐在路边休息。
A rider passes by Wuhan Aijia International Hua City. As night falls, he lights a cigarette and sits down by the road to rest.
突然身后的楼房传来断断续续的喊声：“武汉加油！”他低头擦了擦眼：“妈的，烟熏了眼睛。
Suddenly behind the building came intermittent shouts: "Wuhan refueling!" He wiped his eyes: "Fuck, smoke smoked eyes.
”陈琦也在送外卖时，收到了这样的暖意。
Chen Qi also received such a warm reception while delivering takeaway.
29日，他接到了万科小区的订单，留言上写着：“送到后，挂在门口就好，家里有发热的人，不方便开门。
On the 29th, he received the order of Vanke community, the message said: "After delivery, hanging at the door, there is a fever people, inconvenient to open the door.
”到了客户家门口，看见了客户特意为他准备的两只口罩。
At the customer's door, he saw two masks specially prepared for him.
陈琦留意到，好几位宅在家里自我隔离的居民，会特意备注上新年祝福。
Chen Qi noticed that several homebound self-isolated residents, will specially note the New Year's greetings.
数据显示，截至大年初四，武汉有1289个饿了么订单外卖出现了“过年好/新年好”。
According to the data, as of the beginning of the year, Wuhan 1,289 hungry order take-out appeared "good New Year / New Year."
原来，消失的年味用另一种形式保留了下来。
It turned out that the vanishing smell had been preserved in another form.
家人不在身边，还有许多人在一起度过这个特殊的年。
The family was not around, and many people spent the special year together.
有些用户重复在李神龙的店里点餐。
Some users repeated their order at Lee's store.
有次送餐，身穿黑色羽绒服的医护人员认出了他们：“中午那顿是我两天来吃过最好的饭。
At one meal, paramedics in black down suits recognized them: "The lunch was the best I had had in two days.
吃那个鱼，我都要哭了。
Eating that fish, I'm gonna cry.
”女配送员一时不知如何回答，只能拍着护士的手，反复安慰她。
"The waitress, not knowing how to answer, clapped the nurse's hand and reassured her.
付出得到回报，李神龙店里对接的医院由刚开始的四五家增加到十余家，老乡鸡的十多家连锁店也恢复了运转。
Paid in return, Li Shenlong store docking hospital from the beginning of four or five to more than a dozen, the township chicken chain more than a dozen also resumed operation.
受访者供图|老乡鸡为饿了么骑手提供餐食得益于平台方的政策，许多和老乡鸡一样的餐饮服务企业逐渐复苏。
Did the villagers provide food for their hungry riders Thanks to the platform's policies, many of the catering companies that & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; s policies.
饿了么所属的阿里本地生活服务公司及时做出“五个决定”，除了商家外卖服务急速上线，还减免商户佣金、年费延期、提供贷款金融支持、赠送最高30万元的肺炎险。
Are you hungry? Ali's local life service company made five decisions in time. In addition to the business take-out service, merchants were given commissions, annual fee extensions, loan financial support and a maximum of 300,000 yuan in pneumonia.
阿里巴巴集团合伙人、阿里本地生活服务公司总裁王磊解释，平台和商家辅车相依，“我们相信守望相助的力量，商家伙伴们的生命线就是我们的生命线。
Wang Lei, Alibaba's partner and president of Ali Local Life Services, explains that the platform is tied to the merchant service. "We believe in the power of keeping watch, and the lifeline of our business partners is our lifeline.
”前天，陈琦在中百超市门口等着派单，一位60多岁的大爷招呼他过去帮忙。
The day before yesterday, Chen Qi was waiting for his order at the door of a supermarket.
大爷一个人出门买菜，结完账拎不动。
Uncle went out to buy vegetables by himself and couldn't carry the bill.
陈琦正好不忙，于是替大爷把菜送到了一公里外的小区，搬上了五楼。
Chen Qi just is not busy, so for the uncle sent to a kilometer away to the community, moving up the fifth floor.
“感谢你啊，年轻人真好。
"Thank you, young man.
”大爷坚持要给打赏，陈琦谢绝了。
"The master insisted on receiving a reward, and Chen Qi declined.
大爷从兜里掏出一个红包，说一定要收下，是新年祝福。
The old man took a red envelope from his pocket and said he must take it. It was New Year's greetings.
陈琦猜想，这应该是给还没团聚的孙子准备的吧。
Chen Qi guesses, this should be for the grandchildren who have not been reunited.
他收下了红包，认认真真地给老人拜了一个年。
He took the red envelope and worshiped the old man for a year.
*文中陈琦、江涛、老秦为化名撰文 |成琨陈晓妍。
* Chen Qi, Jiang Tao and Lao Qin wrote Chen Xiaoyan under a pseudonym.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉：“打烊”的城市里，不打烊的外卖。
Wuhan: "Closed" in the city, not closed take-out.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉：“打烊”的城市里，不打烊的外卖";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan: At least & quot; closed-out & quot; in a city with "closed doors."
var msg_desc = "在武汉，他们往定点医院送外卖";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; in Wuhan.
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
