被困武汉城内的宠物们。
Pets trapped inside Wuhan.
姚远 陈晓妍。
Yao Yuan Chen Xiaoyan.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
武汉城里留守的宠物们，遭遇了一场猝不及防的粮食危机。
Wuhan city left behind the pets, encountered a sudden food crisis.
它们的主人春节返乡前，只留下了足够春节假期吃喝的食水，而由于疫情和封城，宠物主人不能如期返回武汉，这些独居的宠物们，成了另一群等待救援的生命。
Their owners, who were left with only enough water to eat and drink during the Spring Festival, were unable to return to Wuhan on time because of the outbreak and closures.
这几天，真实故事计划和几位救助武汉城内留守宠物的年轻人和猫主人聊了聊。
Over the past few days, Real Story plans to chat with several young people who have saved their pets in Wuhan.
对他们来说，在这场灾难中，每个生命都不应该被放弃。
For them, in this disaster, every life should not be given up.
被记挂的、被遗弃的口述：黄嘉琪武汉理工大学 学生口述时间：1月27日 下午1月23日，我们得到了武汉市封城禁行的消息，许多宠物的主人原本计划那两天赶回来，但由于交通封禁，大都未能成行。
2007-9-24 16: 38 The Handicapped Oral Time by Huang Jiaqi Wuhan Technical University Students On January 23, 2007, we received word that the city of Wuhan had been banned. Many pet owners had planned to come back on those two days, but the travel ban prevented most of them from doing so.
我的好朋友特别焦虑，她记挂着在她武汉家中，两只独居的宠物猫。
My best friend was so anxious that she remembered two lonely cats at her Wuhan home.
由于疫情发展和交通管制，她十分担心之前帮忙喂养的朋友无法再去了。
Because of the epidemic and traffic control, she was worried that her friends, who had helped feed them before, would no longer be able to go.
她家离我家只隔了两条街，所以知道这件事后，我提出可以帮她照料，帮助更多滞留宠物的想法也因此冒了出来。
Knowing that she was only two blocks from my home, I came up with the idea that I could help her take care of her and help more pets stay.
我通过网络招募，进了一个名叫“互助喂猫自救群”的微信群，主要负责武汉市洪山区的救助。
I recruited through the network, into a group called "mutual help to feed cats self-help groups," mainly responsible for Wuhan Hongshan District rescue.
联系我的宠物主人都很焦虑，人在异地，他们束手无策，我答应他们会尽力定期回访这些被记挂的宠物。
Contact my pet owners who are anxious and stranded in different places and I promise they will try to visit them regularly.
许多人家里装的是密码锁，也有部分需要钥匙开门。
Many people have a password lock in their home and some need a key to open the door.
为了猫咪，有人把钥匙从江苏苏州寄了过来，还有一位猫主人，特意远程联系了师傅换门锁，据说花了800块。
For the cat, someone sent the keys from Suzhou, Jiangsu, and a cat owner contacted the master remotely to change the lock, reportedly for 800 yuan.
在武汉， 平日里换锁绝不是这个价，虽然特殊时期，城内口罩、酒精都在涨价，开锁价格有所上涨可以理解，但不至于到溢价几百块钱的地步。
In Wuhan, changing locks on weekdays is no such price, although the price of masks and alcohol in the city has risen during the special period, and the price of locks has increased understandably, but not to a premium of several hundred dollars.
去这家那天，我到的时候，开锁师傅不在场，拆了锁的门大开着，我和同行的朋友吓得不轻，以为他们家被抢了，问了才知道，开锁匠拆了锁之后，就这么把门敞着，回去拿锁芯了，这样真的很不安全。
When I arrived at the house that day, the lock-breaker was not present, the locked door was wide open, and my companion and I, terrified, thought their house had been robbed. When we asked, the locksmith opened the lock and went back to get it.
我已经救助了7户人家的猫。
I have helped seven families with cats.
有4户养了1只，有2户养了3只，还有1户家里竟然有6只猫。
There were four families with one, two with three and one with six cats.
养了3只猫的那家人，走的时候关窗户没关好，其中2只猫从窗户跳了出去，蹲在空调外机上，我发现后，拼命把它们捞了回来。
The family, who owned three cats, left their windows closed. Two of them jumped out the window and squatted on the air conditioner.
养了6只猫的那户，由于长期没人打理，家里已经乱得一塌糊涂，我去的时候，大部分时间都在四处找猫，生怕少了一只。
The family, which had six cats, was in such a mess that I went most of the time looking for a cat for fear of losing one.
帮猫准备好充足的猫粮，用塑料盆给它们接满水，再给它们拍几则视频报平安，我就离开了。
Get plenty of cat food for the cats, fill them with water in a plastic basin, shoot them a few videos, and I'll be off.
真希望这些被留在武汉城的小生命，都能平安地度过难关。
I really hope that these small life left in Wuhan city, can survive safely.
我很害怕时间再长，有人会不再管宠物了。
I'm afraid that for as long as I can, someone will stop caring about pets.
这几天，去喂猫的路上，能看到一些新流浪猫，有一些身上还带着家养的痕迹，应该是近期被遗弃的。
These days, on the way to feed the cat, we can see some new stray cats, some of whom also bear the trace of domestic support, which should be abandoned recently.
在这场灾难中，每一条生命都想活下去口述：老猫武汉某宠物救助急诊中心 负责人口述时间：1月27日 下午春节前夕，有数百万人离开武汉。
Wuhan, an old cat, is the head of a pet rescue and emergency center dictating time: Millions of people left Wuhan on January 27, the afternoon of Spring Festival Eve.
按照猫主人的习惯，他们离开前已经为猫留下了足够春节期间吃喝的食水。
According to cat owners' habits, they left cats with enough water to eat and drink during the Spring Festival before they left.
因为这场疫情，1月23日上午10点，武汉宣布封城。
As a result of the outbreak, January 23 at 10 a.m., Wuhan announced the closure of the city.
随着主人的归程变得遥遥无期，武汉城里独居的宠物们也陷入了粮食危机。
As the return of the owners of the remote, Wuhan city living alone pets have also fallen into a food crisis.
如果猫长时间被困在家里，没有充足的食水，会出现脱水、脂肪肝，肠胃功能失调等疾病，此外，也可能会有心理创伤，变得更加怕人，甚至出现一些应激反应。
If the cat is trapped in the house for a long time, without adequate water, dehydration, fatty liver, gastrointestinal dysfunction, etc., there may also be psychological trauma, increased fear and even some stress.
官方称，有约500万人离开了武汉，我保守估计，因此被困的独居宠物得有几万只。
Officials say about five million people have left Wuhan, and I conservatively estimate that tens of thousands of them live alone.
因为实在不忍心家猫被饿死，1月25日下午4点，我用公众号发了个推送，表示我们可以救助城内留守宠物。
Unable to bear the thought of starving to death, on January 25 at 4: 00 pm, I sent a public bugle saying that we could save pets in the city.
3天内，后台就收到了超过600条信息，我们的热线也被打爆了。
In three days, more than 600 messages were received backstage, and our hotline was blown up.
在此之前，我的微信好友数在1000人左右，自从开始救助武汉城里的宠物猫，宠物主人涌进我的好友列表，现在变成了2780人，每天还在不断增加。
Since the beginning of the rescue of pet cats in Wuhan, pet owners have flocked to my list of friends, which has grown to 2,780 every day.
救助猫的方式有两种，有的会接到店里暂时寄养，也有的主人选择让我上门喂养，每次收费200元。
There are two ways to help cats, some will be temporarily placed in the store, or the host choose to let me feed door-to-door, each charge 200 yuan.
一位家在武汉的泰国人联系我，说她请的猫保姆害怕武汉疫情，走了，不得已向我求助。
A Thai family in Wuhan contact me, said she hired a cat nanny afraid of Wuhan epidemic, left, had to ask me for help.
还有一位家住汉口的护士，她即将前往一线抗击病毒性肺炎，担心离家之后自己的猫没人照料。
There was also a Hankou nurse who was heading to the front line to fight viral pneumonia, fearing her cat would be left unattended.
我连夜开车去她家里，把她的猫接到我的店里来寄养，没有收她任何费用。
I drove to her house all night and took her cat to my store for foster care at no cost to her.
受访者供图 | 老猫接被困宠物猫回店里寄养现在，店里已经收养了4、50只猫，每天需要上门喂养的还有20多只猫。
AT RATE & # 114; & # 45; Old Cats Receive Trapped Cats Back to the Store Now, the store has 4 to 50 cats in the store, and more than 20 that have to be fed door to door every day.
由于机构的工作人员都回家了，武汉城里，只有我和我妈妈两个人照顾它们。
As the staff are home, Wuhan city, only my mother and I took care of them.
每天，我们会在店里用防止宠物传染病的消毒水喷洒一遍，特殊时期，我会额外用医用酒精再喷洒一遍，这能消灭环境中的冠状病毒。
Every day, we spray it with disinfectant to prevent pet infections. In special times, I will spray it with medical alcohol once more, which will eliminate the coronavirus in the environment.
上门照顾一只猫平均需要30多分钟，我需要给猫添上足够的猫粮和水，每天有20多只这样的猫服务。
Taking care of a cat at home takes an average of more than 30 minutes. I need to add enough cat food and water to the cat.
过去3天，我每天早上8点出门，凌晨才能回到店里。
For the past three days, I've been out every morning at 8 a.m. and I can't get back to the store until early morning.
受访者供图 | 被老猫救助的留守宠物到了客户家中，猫咪基本都是萎靡不振的状态，有的还会把家里抓得乱七八糟。
The pets left behind by old cats are mostly in a state of malaise, and some may have caught their homes in disarray.
万幸的是，我还没有遇到上门后发现猫咪已经饿死的情况，不过我听说有其他志愿者已经遇到了。
Luckily, I hadn't come across the door and found the cat had starved to death, but I had heard that other volunteers had already met.
最近，我留意到网络上流传一个说法：宠物会携带冠状病毒。
Recently, I noticed a saying circulating on the Internet that pets can carry a coronavirus.
但是，根据世卫组织的回应，目前没有证据显示猫狗等宠物会感染新型冠状病毒。
However, according to the WHO, there is no evidence that pets such as cats and dogs will be infected with the new coronavirus.
我想呼吁，请大家在保护好自己的同时，也保护好宠物，特殊时期，不要散养它们。
I would like to appeal to you to protect themselves while protecting their pets, special periods, do not keep them.
如果你怀疑宠物在外接触了病人，请先观察它、隔离它。
If you suspect a pet has been in contact with a patient, observe and isolate it.
不要遗弃它们，在这个特殊时期让它们流浪街头。
Do not abandon them and let them roam the streets during this special time.
在这场灾难中，每一条生命都想活下去。
In this disaster, every life wants to live.
我特别担心它长时间待在家里会出现心理问题口述人：刘妍湖北省武汉市 自由职业者口述时间：1月28日下午我们一家三口生活在武汉，今年春节回了内蒙古过年，猫留在家里已经一个多星期了。
I am especially worried about the psychological problems that can occur while staying at home for a long time.Oral Time: 345543.com Three of our family live in Wuhan on January 28th, and this Spring Festival returns to Inner Mongolia for the Spring Festival.
以往我们离家从来不会超过7天，每次出远门回来的头1、2天，猫都会变得特别粘人，它一个人太孤单了。
In the past, we never left home for more than seven days. For the first day or two after each long trip, the cat became very clingy.
但今年遇上疫情、封城这些变数，我不知道什么时候才能回家。
But I don't know when I will be able to go home in the face of this year's epidemic and closures.
离开前，我在宠物自动喂食器为它放够了近一个月的口粮，但因为太匆忙，忘记留足够的水。
Before I left, I fed him enough food in the automatic pet feeder for nearly a month, but I forgot to leave enough water because of my haste.
23日，从武汉市宣布封城那天起，我就开始焦虑，四处求助。
On the 23rd, from the day Wuhan was declared a city, I began to worry and ask for help.
我在武汉的朋友们或是因为封路无法过江，或是父母不放心他们冒风险出门，都无法提供帮助。
My friends in Wuhan can't help either because they can't cross the river because the road is blocked, or because their parents don't trust them to take the risk of going out.
我联系了武汉小动物保护协会，登记了我们家里的状况，至今还没收到回复。
I contacted Wuhan Association for the Protection of Small Animals, registered the state of our family, so far has not received a response.
之后，我又联系了武汉当地的宠物医院，他们在疫情期间临时提供上门救助的服务，但由于这些宠物医院距离我家太远，他们也没办法帮上我。
After that, I contacted the local pet hospital in Wuhan, which provided home help on an ad hoc basis during the epidemic, but they couldn't help me because the hospitals were too far from my home.
救助中心的负责人把我拉进了喂养留守宠物志愿互助群，很遗憾的是，在那里也没有找到我家附近的志愿者。
The head of the rescue center pulled me into a volunteer group to feed my left-behind pets. Unfortunately, there were no volunteers near my home.
直到今天下午，我才通过某外卖平台联系到一位跑单小哥。
Not until this afternoon did I get in touch with a single brother through a takeaway platform.
沟通后，我通过微信视频通话，指示他如何打开密码锁，在哪里取猫砂、加猫粮，用什么容器给猫准备好充足的水，他在手机几近没电的时候帮我完成了一系列事情。
After I talked to him via microphone, I instructed him how to open the password lock, where to pick up cat sand, add cat food, and what container to prepare enough water for the cat. He did a series of things for me when the phone was almost dead.
受访者供图 | 刘妍的猫离家的那天，我家的密码锁坏了，我花了很长时间重置了密码，为此和丈夫争执了一番，差点没赶上飞机。
The day that Liu Yan's cat left home, my password was broken. I spent a long time reset it, arguing with my husband and narrowly missing the plane.
不知道为什么，当时我有种模糊的预感，心想着一定要把家门的密码锁修好。
I don't know why, I had a vague premonition that I would have to fix the lock on my door.
我至今都在庆幸自己当天的决定，否则找了人也无法上门，不知道家里的猫会怎么办。
So far I am lucky in their decision that day, or find people can not come to the door, do not know how the family cat will do.
我家的猫养了7年。
My cat has been kept in my house for seven years.
2013年我大学毕业，参加毕业聚餐的那天，它的叫声从饭店门口一辆汽车底下传来，刚好被我听到。
I graduated from college in 2013, and on the day of my graduation party, its voice came from under a car in front of the hotel and I heard it.
当时我一直很想养一只小猫，去宠物店看了许多名种猫，都不是很喜欢。
At that time, I always wanted to have a kitten, pet shop to see a lot of cats, are not very like.
当我从车底看见流浪小猫的第一眼，心里就暗下决心：我一定要养它。
When I saw the kitten from the bottom of the car the first eye, the heart secretly determined: I must support it.
它是一只中华狸花猫，当时只有2个半月大，非常瘦小，可有一双特别亮的眼睛和一对特别大的耳朵。
It was a civet cat, only two and a half months old, very small, but with a pair of particularly bright eyes and a pair of extra large ears.
我花了2、3个小时联系车主把它从引擎盖里救了出来，连夜带去宠物医院，又临时从喂流浪猫的老奶奶家中借来一小袋猫粮，第一次喂了它。
It took me two or three hours to contact the owner to get it out of the hood, take him to the pet hospital overnight and temporarily borrow a bag of cat food from the old woman who fed the stray cat and fed it for the first time.
7年来，猫一直和我生活在一起。
For seven years, cats have lived with me.
我和丈夫结婚，带着它开车奔波了1500多公里回老家举办婚礼；怀孕期间，我花了很大的力气找文章、查资料，向家里的老人们解释养猫不会对我的孩子造成危害。
During my pregnancy, I spent a lot of time looking for articles and researching materials to explain to my family that cat ownership wouldn't be harmful to my children.
老人仍然很担心，而我觉得，当初既然把它捡了回来，就绝对不能再把它丢出去。
The old man was still very worried, and I felt that if I had picked it up, I should never have thrown it out again.
我的孩子现在1岁5个月了，他在学会喊“妈妈”、“爸爸”之后，学会的第一个概念就是“猫”。
My child, now 1 year old and 5 months old, learned the first concept of "cat" after learning to call "mom" and "dad."
他知道家里墙上挂的画是“猫”，街上行走的小动物是“猫”，我们家的猫也是“猫”。
He knew that the pictures on the walls were "cats," that the little animals walking on the streets were "cats" and that our cats were "cats."
他从小喜欢揪猫的尾巴，家里的猫从来没有挠过他。
He liked to pull the cat's tail when he was a child, and the cat never scratched him.
我把猫当作我的另一个小孩，现在，我特别担心它长时间待在家里会出现心理问题。
I regard the cat as my other child, and now I am particularly worried about the psychological problems it will have if it stays at home for a long time.
猫和人一样需要情感交流，它自己待在家里，完全处于一个感官被剥夺的状态，没有任何外界的刺激和交流，我很害怕它会抑郁。
Cats, like humans, need emotional communication. They stay at home, in a state of total sensory deprivation, devoid of any external stimuli and communication, and I fear depression.
可是，目前我也没有办法安慰它，我希望疫情能尽快过去，我们可以早点回家。
But, at present, I also have no way to comfort it, I hope the epidemic can pass quickly, we can go home earlier.
死去的猫崽躺在我的脚边，荒诞且不真实口述人：悟一湖北省武汉市 外卖员口述时间：1月28日下午大年初二，正准备收工时，系统提示，有人下了“帮送单”（将货物送至某个地点），订单显示，路程0米，薪酬49.5元。
The dead cat was lying at my feet, absurd and untrue oral: Wu Han City, Hubei Province Oral time: January 28, the afternoon of the Chinese New Year, just as the system was about to close, the system suggested that someone had "sent the goods to a certain place" and the order showed that the distance was 0 meters and remuneration was 49.5 yuan.
我心想，可能又是迷糊的客户下错了订单的类型，没看清楚备注就接了单。
I thought it might be the confused customer who placed the wrong type of order and took the order without reading the remarks clearly.
刚刚接下，客户立刻给我打来电话。
As soon as I took over, the client called me immediately.
是个独自在武汉工作的外地女孩，春节回家探亲的时候，她把猫留在租房里，没想到因为封城，她暂时回不来了。
Wuhan is a girl working alone, the Spring Festival home family visit, she left the cat in the rental house, but because of the ban, she temporarily could not return.
她加了我微信，请我上门给猫添置猫粮和水，再把猫砂盆清理干净。
She added a letter to me asking me to bring cat food and water to the cat and clean up the litter pan.
接到这样的订单还是第一次，不过这几天我已习惯了意外。
It's the first time I've received an order like this, but I've got used to accidents these days.
事实上，今年春节，我们遇到过很多平时不会有的情况。
In fact, this Spring Festival, we have encountered a lot of normal will not be the case.
初二那天，还有一位医生的女儿下了单，让我把做好的饭菜送给在前线工作的父亲。
On the second day of junior high school, another doctor's daughter gave me an order to give the meal to my father who was working on the front line.
同事也接到了帮送单，结果到了小区，任务是帮不在武汉的主人把狗牵下去遛15分钟，再带回家。
Colleagues also received a delivery, the results of the community, the task is not in Wuhan to help the owner of the dog down for 15 minutes, and then take home.
戴着口罩进门，眼镜上很快起了雾。
Wearing a mask, the door fogged up quickly.
到了女孩家中，她的屋里乱糟糟，朦胧中我看到一只猫在房间里乱窜。
Arriving at the girl's house, her house was in such a mess that I saw a cat scurrying around the room.
没走两步，脚边有一团黑乎乎的软物躺在地上。
Two paces away, a dark mass of soft material lay on the ground at his feet.
我拍下照片，给主人发了过去：“你猜我看到什么了？”“不会是小猫吧？”“死老鼠。
I took a picture and sent it to the master: "Guess what I saw?" "It can't be a kitten?" "Dead mice.
”眼镜的雾气完全消散。
The fog of the glasses completely cleared away.
我蹲在地上看，才发现那不是老鼠，而是几只死去的小猫。
I squatted on the ground to see that it was not a mouse, but a few dead kittens.
一转身，不远的地方又发现了另一只猫崽的尸体，我的头皮一阵发麻。
As I turned around, I found the body of another cat a short distance away, and my scalp felt numb.
我也养过猫、养过狗，能想象到主人听到之后会有多崩溃。
I've owned cats and dogs, and I can imagine how broken my owners would be when they heard about it.
跟女孩通话时，她一直在崩溃大哭。
She kept breaking down and crying when she talked to the girl.
这个时候我又不能责备，只能安慰她，还好猫妈妈的状态不错。
At this time I can not blame, can only comfort her, but the cat mother is in good shape.
那只刚刚生产完的蓝猫安静地躺在桌子腿边，我读不懂她的表情。
The blue cat, which had just finished her work, lay quietly on the legs of the table. I could not read her expression.
但我有一种感觉——此时的我们都一样，在这座被封的城市里，作为小小的个体，正在经历一个特殊的历史时刻，荒诞而不真实。
But I have a feeling that we are all the same in this sealed city, as small individuals, going through a special moment in history, absurd and unreal.
我把小猫们装好，扔在了楼下的垃圾桶里。
I packed the kittens and left them in the garbage can downstairs.
这样的处理方式或许不妥，但我没有其它办法。
This may not be the right way to deal with it, but I have no alternative.
主人没有再问，我也不再提起。
My master asked no more questions, and I never mentioned them again.
晚间，母亲给我打来电话。
My mother phoned me in the evening.
叮嘱我在家待着，哪里也不要去。
Tell me to stay at home and don't go anywhere.
但是，春节的单还没有做完，明天天一亮，我照常会备好几十个医用口罩和温度计，上路工作。
However, the Spring Festival has not been done, tomorrow at dawn, I will carry dozens of medical masks and thermometers, as usual, to work.
路经楚河汉界，这里历年都是武汉春节最热闹的地方，今年很难再见到一个人。
Road through the Chu Han Dynasty, here is the most busy Spring Festival in Wuhan, this year it is difficult to see a person.
未来一段时间，还不知道会接到多少受困的武汉人发来的订单。
For some time to come, I don't know how many orders will be received from the stranded Wuhan people.
希望我的猫能和全国人民一起挺过去口述人：王思方武汉纺织大学 在校学生口述时间：1月28日下午大年初二那天，我近乎崩溃，一个人躲在阳台上哭。
I hope my cat will make it through with the whole nation: Wang Sifang Wuhan Textile University oral time: January 28 afternoon, the second day of the New Year, I nearly collapsed, a person hiding on the balcony crying.
我妈经过时刚好看见了我，她默默关掉房间的灯，留给我空间发泄情绪。
My mother passed just in time to see me, she silently turned off the room lights, leaving me room to vent their emotions.
这是我大学最后一个寒假。
This is my last winter vacation in college.
学校放假之后，因为担心三只猫的情况，我尽量压缩在家的时间。
After school holidays, worried about the situation of the three cats, I tried to keep my time at home.
推迟了几天，1月14号才坐车回到海南，计划在开学前13天就回武汉。
After a delay of a few days, January 14 before returning to Hainan by car, planning to return to Wuhan 13 days before the start of school.
捡来的流浪猫，是我在武汉最大的羁绊。
Pick up stray cat, is my biggest fetter in Wuhan.
有一次参与学校组织的实习活动，不得不离开猫6天。
On one occasion, she was involved in an internship organized by the school and had to leave the cat for six days.
晚上回到宿舍，累了一天，其他人倒头就睡，只有我，因为担心三只猫在家无人照料，到凌晨三点还睡不着。
When I got back to my dorm at night, I was the only one who couldn't sleep until 3 in the morning for fear that three cats would be left unattended at home.
离开学校那天，我们有关疫情的消息不多。
On the day we left school, we had little information about the outbreak.
直到武汉封城那天，我才开始紧张。
It was not until the day Wuhan was sealed that I began to get nervous.
从事媒体行业的朋友帮我找到武汉猫友互助链接，我估摸算了算，主人返乡，宠物留守受困的至少有3000户。
Engaged in the media industry friends to help me find Wuhan cat friends to help each other link, I estimate that the master returned home, pets left stranded at least 3,000 households.
我申请进入了一个喂猫自救群，屏幕弹出大量的求助信息，主人的焦虑情绪在群聊中蔓延。
I applied to a cat-feeding group, the screen popped up a lot of help messages, and the owner's anxiety spread through the chatter.
群里有很多免费上门喂猫的志愿者，但我的住所太偏，难以找到合适的人帮忙。
There were a lot of free cat-feeding volunteers in the group, but my house was too far away to find the right person to help.
我给另一个互救组织打了两三天的电话，由于他们那人员爆满，电话总是打不进去。
I called another mutual aid group for two or three days and couldn't get in because their staff was full.
受访者供图 | 王思方的猫我焦急地待在家里，三只小毛孩打架受伤的场景突然浮现在脑中。
Cat at Wang. The scene suddenly came to mind when three little kids got hurt while I was anxiously at home.
它们是否又会像上次一样打掉一颗牙齿？老三身体状况不好，一到冬天经常打颤发抖，现在又怎么样了？老一辈人很难理解我对猫的感情。
Are they going to knock out a tooth as they did last time? Old Three is in poor health, shivering all winter, and what's going on now? It's hard for the older generation to understand my feelings for cats.
我爸至今不知道我养猫，妈妈也不支持。
My dad still doesn't know that I own a cat, and Mom doesn't support it.
我问过他们，如果我被困在了武汉回不了家，他们会怎么办？爸妈说，他们肯定会去找我。
I asked them what they would do if I got stuck in Wuhan and couldn't get home, and my parents said they would definitely come to me.
对我来说，猫就像我的孩子一样，如果我能回武汉，我戴上口罩、穿上防护服也要回去。
To me, cats are like my children. If I can go back to Wuhan, I will wear a mask and protective clothing.
我本身患有抑郁症，从海南去到湖北上学，因为语言、习惯等等原因，我很难融入到湖北本地生居多的圈子里。
I myself suffer from depression, from Hainan to Hubei to go to school, because of language, habits and other reasons, it is difficult to integrate into Hubei native students in the majority circle.
搬出宿舍后，只有我的猫每天会守在门口等我回家。
After moving out of the dorm, only my cat would wait at the door every day for me to go home.
流浪猫不太信任人，面对陌生人时，它们会伸出爪子哈气，在我面前，则会露出肚皮。
Wandering cats do not trust people, when faced with strangers, they will stretch out their paws to breath, in front of me, will reveal belly.
后来，我找到了一位愿意帮忙的撬锁师傅，他可以帮我开锁、进门喂猫。
Then I found a willing lock-breaker who could unlock and feed the cat.
刚开始，我也对陌生人上门开锁这件事有所顾虑，联系上师傅，跟他确认了营业执照和公安局备案之后，我才把门牌号告诉了他。
At first, I was also concerned about the door unlocking by strangers. After contacting my master and confirming my business license and the Public Security Bureau's record, I told him the number.
进门之后，他给我发来视频。
After he came in, he sent me a video.
可能是撬锁的声音太大，老大躲在衣柜里，柜门刚打开，它便急忙逃出，在屋子里乱窜。
Perhaps it was too loud to pry the lock, the eldest hid in the wardrobe, the cupboard door just opened, it rushed out of the house.
老二和老三蜷缩在角落里，师傅拿着手机靠近，老二猛地回头，一脸恐惧。
Second and third curl up in the corner, master with a mobile phone near, the second suddenly turned back, a face of fear.
受访者供图 | 王思方的猫一股酸楚涌上来，但更多的是开心。
A stream of sorrow from Wang's cat came up, but more often than not it was fun.
在这样的情况下，只要能看到它们还活着，还能好好地待在家里，我就已经很满足了。
Under these circumstances, I should be satisfied as long as I could see them alive and at home.
家里备用的猫粮，大概只够再吃十天，找人上门喂猫也只能缓解燃眉之急。
At home, the reserve cat food, about 10 days to eat, to find someone to feed the cat can only alleviate the immediate needs.
现在，部分车辆已经无法通行了。
Some of the vehicles are now impassable.
如果疫情再发展下去，万一市区内的车都彻底被禁行，到那个时候，就没人再能照看我的猫了。
If the epidemic continues, in the event that cars in the city are completely banned, no one will be able to look after my cat.
只希望，我的猫能和全国人民一起挺过去。
I just hope my cat will make it through with the people of the country.
*为保护受访者隐私，文中部分为化名。
* In order to protect the privacy of interviewees, the text is partly pseudonym.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------撰文 |姚远 陈晓妍编辑 | 温丽虹 崔玉敏版式|曾杏。
I Am I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
被困武汉城内的宠物们。
Pets trapped inside Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "被困武汉城内的宠物们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一群等待救援的人，拯救另一群等待救援的生命。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a group of people waiting to be rescued; another group waiting to be rescued.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
