在武汉疫区，生活仍在继续。
In Wuhan epidemic area, life continues.
崔玉敏 马延君。
Cui Yumin Ma Yan Jun.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
2020年新年，武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎爆发，随着疫情不断扩大，大多数武汉及湖北市民选择居家防疫。
In 2020, Wuhan, the new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, with the expansion of the epidemic, most Wuhan and Hubei residents choose home immunization.
城市的服务者们如医护人员、外卖小哥坚守岗位，疫区的居民制作美食、一起刷抖音、看《囧妈》对抗防疫焦虑。
City service providers, such as health-care workers, take-out brothers, residents of the affected areas make delicious meals, shake off their voices together, and watch "Jomo" fight against anxiety.
我们看到疫情寒意之下，人们的生活仍在继续。
We have seen the cold of the epidemic, and people's lives continue.
余强 武汉市汉阳区金融从业者在定点医院出生的女儿，是我最大的快乐我家住得离这次疫情发源地之一的华南海鲜批发市场不远，妻子分娩的武汉市第一医院，也是离华南市场最近的三甲医院。
I live not far from the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, one of the birthplaces of the epidemic. The Wuhan First Hospital, where my wife gave birth, is also the closest triple A hospital to the South China market.
1月17日，妻子腹痛发作，我们赶紧送到医院，那时院内戴口罩的人还不多，武汉市内的情绪也比较乐观。
On January 17, my wife had an attack of abdominal pain and we rushed to the hospital, where the number of people wearing masks was low and the mood in Wuhan was more optimistic.
次日，妻子诞下女儿，我们又住了三天，21号出院。
The next day, my wife gave birth to my daughter. We stayed for another three days.
后来我才知道，产女期间，武汉市第一医院在18日和21日分别有新型肺炎患者去世。
Later I learned that during childbirth, Wuhan City No. 1 Hospital on the 18th and 21st in the death of a new type of pneumonia.
感受特别明显的是，钟南山院士讲话的当天，整个医院所有人几乎都戴上了口罩。
The feeling is particularly obvious, Zhong Nan Shan academician speech day, the entire hospital almost all wear masks.
回家后，感染的阴影一直压在我心里。
When I got home, the shadow of the infection kept coming back to me.
年前最后两天，我准备回单位工作，领导了解我的情况后，担心传染，劝说我在家隔离好好照顾妻女。
The last two days, I am ready to go back to work, the leadership understand my situation, fear of infection, persuade me to stay at home and take good care of his wife and children.
考虑到情势，我和弟弟幸运地在封城前一天购买足够一家吃半个月以上的肉蛋蔬菜。
Given the situation, my brother and I were lucky enough to buy enough meat and vegetables for a family to eat for more than half a month the day before the city was closed.
封城前十多个小时，弟弟和父亲又开车回到了江西老家，居家隔离。
Sealed more than 10 hours before the city, my brother and father drove back to Jiangxi home, home isolation.
现在，妻子和女儿身体状态都特别好，我在家忙进忙出，看着计步软件上，同事朋友们都只有可怜的一百步两百步，我高的时候居然有七千多步。
Now that my wife and daughter are in excellent health, I'm busy at home, looking at the computer software, colleagues and friends have only a poor hundred steps 200 steps, when I was high up there were more than 7,000 steps.
忙着给女儿取名字，逗一逗看她笑，心里真是莫大满足，不忙的时候，我自己刷一刷抖音，看了《囧妈》，把时间充实起来。
I was so busy naming my daughter and teasing her to smile that I was really very satisfied. When I wasn't busy, I brushed it myself, read "Mommy" and filled it up.
我觉得自己很幸运，一种上天眷顾的幸运。
I felt lucky, a blessing in disguise.
这一阵子，我忽然明白了人们对热衷晒娃的痴迷，孩子真的太可爱了，现在的氛围下，在朋友圈晒娃不适合，我特地下载了抖音，在上面用视频记录女儿成长的点点滴滴。
This time, I suddenly understand that people are crazy about sunbathing, the child is really cute, in the current atmosphere, in the circle of friends not suitable for sunbathing, I specially downloaded the chattering, video-recorded daughter's growth on the dot.
梁天 武汉市武昌区公司财务异地2000多公里，假装一起坐在电影院武汉封城的消息发布后，男友似乎比我更加紧张，每隔一会儿就要发来微信问问情况，确认我没有出门、没有发烧。
Liang Tianwu Han Wuchang District Company financial relocation of more than 2,000 kilometers, pretending to sit together in the cinema Wuhan after the news, boyfriend seems to be more nervous than me every few moments to send a message to confirm that I did not go out, no fever.
我们在武汉读大学时相识相恋，毕业后我在武汉，他在哈尔滨，异地两千多公里，感情依旧很好，本来说好过完春节到武汉见父母，定下结婚计划，可疫情发生后，也只好取消行程。
We met and fell in love when we were in Wuhan. After graduation, I was in Wuhan. He lived two thousand kilometers away in Harbin. His relationship was still good.
随着有关武汉的新闻增多，男友越来越不放心，尽管我一再强调家里物资充足、情况安好，但他不了解这边的真实状况，还是急得团团转。
As the news about Wuhan grew, my boyfriend became more and more uneasy. Though I insisted that my family was well-stocked and in good condition, he didn't understand the real situation here and was anxious.
刚开始我还觉得心烦，我只是在家隔离，不是被抓进去了，没必要这么担心。
At first I was upset. I was isolated at home. I wasn't caught. I didn't have to worry.
后来才反应过来，隔着大半个中国，外界消息真假难辨，他也难免跟着着急。
Later on, across the majority of China, the outside world information is true and difficult to distinguish, he is also inevitably anxious.
为了让他放松心情，我不停给他发去微博上的调侃截图，希望能缓解我们之间的情绪。
To calm him down, I kept sending him jest shots on microblogs in the hope of easing our mood.
刚数了下，这几天我一共给他发过二十八张截图，尽管现在疫情依旧紧张，但也许只有保持乐观，才有助于我们一起撑过去。
I just counted, I sent him a total of 28 screenshots these days, although the epidemic is still tense, but perhaps only remain optimistic to help us through together.
除夕夜，外面安静得出奇，我待在小屋里和男友视频，聊到以前上学时，一到寒暑假就要分开，从来没在一起过个新年，我们都很羡慕那些能一起过除夕、放烟花、去电影院看贺岁档的情侣。
On New Year's Eve, when it was so quiet outside, I stayed in the cabin with my boyfriend, talked about my old school days, separated during the summer and winter holidays, and never spent the New Year together.
说到这，他突然提议一起打开电脑，用西瓜视频同步播放《囧妈》，假装我们俩就坐在电影院。
Speaking of which, he suddenly proposed to turn on the computer together and play "Jommy" simultaneously with a watermelon video, pretending that we were just sitting in the cinema.
于是，在网络的连接下，我们一起度过了一个特别的新年。
So, in the connection of the network, we spent a special New Year together.
悟一 武汉市洪山区 外卖员疫情中，我给医生送去妻子做的饭封城之后，我和同事还在坚持送单。
Wu Han Hongshan City, Hongshan salesman epidemic situation, I sent to the doctor his wife's cooking after the closure of the city, my colleagues and I are still insist on delivering tickets.
路上也冷清，除了出来采购的市民，街上能见到的大多是环卫工、外卖员和快递小哥。
The road is also deserted, except for people out shopping, the streets can be seen mostly sanitation workers, take-out workers and express brother.
送餐的这几天，我也经历了不少温暖的故事。
I have also experienced many warm stories in the past few days.
1月26号，快收工时，我接到一个订单，备注上写着， “妈妈做的饭，给爸爸送去，我爸爸是前线医生，谢谢小哥了”。
On January 26th, just before work was over, I received an order with a note saying, "Mom cooks, send it to Daddy, my father is the front-line doctor, thank you, brother."
我去取货地址取货，一个女人开了门，她说话非常客气，一直感谢我。
I went to get the goods address, a woman opened the door, she spoke very politely, thank me all the time.
随后给我一个手提袋，里面有包好的餐具和餐盒。
Then I was given a handbag with the wrapped utensils and lunch boxes.
我将这份爱心餐送到留下的地址——距离他们家大概2公里的一个酒店。
I delivered it to the address I had left - a hotel about 2 kilometers from their house.
这家酒店离武昌医院比较近，我推测是医护人员下班后不回家，在这里集中住宿。
This hotel is close to Wuchang Hospital. I suppose the medical staff will not come home after work.
单子上写着把餐送到801房间。
The list says take the meal to room 801.
我送到801，开门的人却说自己不是陈医生，陈医生住在隔壁房间。
When I delivered it to 801, the person who answered said that he was not Dr. Chen, who lived in the next room.
医院有事，他刚才又回去了。
There's something wrong with the hospital. He just went back.
不知道那天，他什么时候能吃上自己妻子做的饭。
I wonder when he will be able to eat his wife's dinner that day.
1月27号晚8点多，由于电量不足，我的电动车抛锚了，换好电池后，我在路边抽烟，听到背后的一个小姐姐在喊:“武汉加油！”我突然觉得烟熏了眼睛。
January 27th, more than 8 pm, due to lack of electricity, my electric car broke down, changed batteries, I smoke in the roadside, heard a little sister behind: "Wuhan refueling!" I suddenly felt smoke in my eyes.
订单不多的日子里，我晚上提早下班回到家大快朵颐，给妈妈打电话报平安，能早些睡觉就觉得很满足。
On the days when orders were few, I came home from work early at night, called my mother safe, and I felt satisfied with going to bed earlier.
我不是武汉人，在这里上了四年大学，不少亲朋都在这，也遇上给过我不少温暖的武汉人。
I am not Wuhan people, here in the four years of college, many friends and relatives are here, also met me a lot of warm Wuhan people.
武汉人么斯没见过？我相信，武汉一切都会好。
Wuhan people who have not seen? I believe, Wuhan will be all right.
辉名武汉市青山区  销售封城七天，在线看贺岁档给我们带来一丝慰藉两个朋友的妻子都感染了肺炎，还在救治中。
Whixin Wuhan Qingshan sales seven days, online to see the New Year to bring us a glimmer of comfort that the wives of two friends are infected with pneumonia, is still in treatment.
小区里，保安“不要乱走”的提醒声被喇叭放大了好几倍。
In the neighborhood, the security guard's "Don't wander" warning was amplified several times over the loudspeaker.
封城七天，我就出过两次门，一次是去买菜，另一次是给女儿买零食，下楼时，我摁电梯时都要犹豫半天。
Seven days after the city was closed, I made two doors, one to buy vegetables, the other to buy snacks for my daughter, when I went downstairs, I had to hesitate to press the elevator.
由于封城，年前准备在电影院把贺岁档看个遍的愿望也无法实现了。
The wish to see the New Year's Eve stalls all over the cinema could not be realized because of the blockade.
大年初一，我们一家人熬夜在线看了《囧妈》，看到电影里妈妈唠叨儿子、儿子不耐烦的表情，我想到母亲，对女儿说，“你奶奶也唠叨。
On New Year's Day, our family stayed up all night watching "Jommy," and I thought of my mother and said to my daughter, "Your grandmother nagged, too.
”说归说，其实我心里惦记母亲，我们家的小区和父母家只隔着两站路，但眼下，下次见面还不知道是什么时候。
"But I think about my mother, who lives just two stops away from my parents' house in our neighborhood, but I don't know when we will meet again.
女儿在一边埋怨说，“爸，你也唠叨啊”。
The daughter complains while saying, "Dad, you also nagging ah."
我和妻子笑作一团，平时因为要盯着她做作业，难免会严厉些。
My wife and I laughed, usually because to stare at her to do her homework, inevitably more severe.
在恐惧中生活了这么久，我不求什么成就，只希望家人平安快乐。
Having lived in fear for so long, I wanted nothing but my family to be safe and happy.
这场午夜电影，给我们家人带来了一丝丝快乐，我挺感恩徐峥导演的。
This midnight movie, brought a trace of happiness to our family, I am very grateful to Xu Zheng director.
我在留言区评论表达了感谢，不断收到陌生网友的回复“一定会平安”。
I expressed my thanks in comments in the comments section and continued to receive responses from unknown netizens, "It will be safe."
孔棕湖北省咸宁市研究生抖音上的防疫视频，藏着妈妈的爱心以往春节，爸妈都会和亲戚一起喝酒聚会，聊聊一年的家长里短，我们一帮小孩吃过饭就凑在一块打游戏，这些场景构成了我对过年的全部记忆。
In the past Spring Festival, my parents would have a drink party with relatives to talk about the parents' gossip for a year, and we played games together after a group of kids had dinner. These scenes form the whole memory of the Chinese New Year.
而这个不能走动的春节，注定有些特别。
The Spring Festival, which is not allowed to move, is destined to be special.
家里只有我们三个人，简单吃了点年夜饭，谁也没有话题打破安静。
There were only three of us in the house. After a simple New Year's dinner, no one talked about breaking the silence.
爸妈赖在沙发上偶尔朗读几句来历不明的疫情消息，对着手机接连叹气，春节联欢晚会的热闹，显得家里越发冷清。
Mom and Dad on the sofa occasionally read a few unknown information about the epidemic situation, to the mobile phone one after another sighing, Spring Festival Gala lively, seems to be more and more desolate at home.
我想了想，干脆拿来爸妈的手机，带他们打游戏。
I thought about it, just take my parents' cell phone and take them to play games.
连打了几天，爸爸越来越入迷，每天缠着我一起玩游戏。
After several days of playing, my father became more and more addicted to playing games with me everyday.
不会打游戏的妈妈，这几天在抖音上点赞了一千多个视频，还非要拉着我一起看。
Can not play the mother of the game, in the last few days on the shaking point of more than a thousand video, still have to pull me to see.
以前妈妈看的视频大多是彩妆搭配和明星动态，她最爱美，一直保持着一颗少女心，总念叨着等以后有时间了，也要出去走走，拍些和视频里一样好看的照片。
Mother used to watch most of the video makeup and star dynamic, she loved the United States, has always kept a girl's heart, always said to wait for time, also want to go out to take some of the same good-looking photos as the video.
昨天，我点开她的抖音界面，发现一直很少关心新闻时事的妈妈，最近的点赞全部变成了各种科普视频。
Yesterday, I clicked on her quiver screen and discovered that moms, who had always paid little attention to current news, had turned all their recent reviews into popular science videos.
不再看乱七八糟的文章，她心态平稳了不少，反倒开始教育我不要惊慌。
Instead of reading the messy articles, she calmed down a lot and began to teach me not to panic.
现在，看着爸妈能从压抑的氛围中脱离出来，我也多少安心了一点。
Now, I'm a little relieved to see my parents get out of their repressed atmosphere.
yuki 武汉市江汉区 单位职员隔离半个月，我靠妈妈做的美食对抗焦虑元旦过后不久，我所在的单位就有了疑似病例，医生判断基本是肺炎后，我就回到了家中隔离。
Shortly after New Year's Day, my workplace had a suspected case of pneumonia and I went back to my home to be isolated.
那时候，父母都还不太在意，钟南山院士出来讲话前，他们不听我的劝阻，还走路去汉口火车站接亲友。
At that time, parents were not very concerned, before Academician Zhong Nan Shan to speak, they do not listen to my dissuasion, but also walk to Hankou Railway Station to meet relatives and friends.
武汉封城当天，我们一家去超市买了菜，老妈说家里的猪肉很多。
Wuhan sealing day, our family went to the supermarket to buy vegetables, mother said that the family pork is a lot.
收拾后才发现，猪肉只有不到一斤，倒是囤了不少鸡肉、牛肉和羊肉。
After tidying up, I found that pork is less than a catty, but hoard a lot of chicken, beef and mutton.
隔离防疫，全家人都宅在一起，这种时候挺难得的，每天吃了睡睡了吃，打打游戏看新闻资讯，看火神山医院的建设。
Isolated epidemic prevention, the whole family are together, this kind of time is quite rare, every day to eat sleep and sleep, play games to see news information, to see the construction of the Mount Fire Hospital.
特别惊喜的是，我发现妈妈做菜的花样还挺多。
To my special surprise, I found my mother still had quite a lot of variety in cooking.
物资有限，妈妈每餐都保证有三个菜，她把大白菜梆子切碎腌制后，做成了辣菜。
Supplies are limited, mother each meal is guaranteed to have three dishes, she chopped Chinese cabbage clappers, pickled, made into a spicy dish.
焦虑降低了口舌的感受力，这道小菜深受我的喜爱，我决定为了妈妈开抖音，拍下短视频记录她做菜的过程。
Anxiety lessened my tongue, and the dish was so popular that I decided to record her cooking in a short video for my mother's sake.
为此，妈妈还做出了那种餐饮店里才有的牛肉粉，味道也很棒。
For this reason, mother also made that kind of restaurant only beef powder, the taste is also very good.
好好吃饭外，我每天都会看同事们身体状态的统计，看着大家都健康着，我也特别开心。
In addition to eating well, I will look at the statistics of the health of colleagues every day, to see that everyone is healthy, I am particularly happy.
唯一的问题是，牛肉硬不易消化，我每天在家不动弹，消化上有一些问题。
The only problem is that the beef is hard and indigestible. I don't move around the house every day.
1月28日，我决定要达到1000步，抱持运动量帮助消化。
On January 28th, I decided to get to 1, 000 steps, holding on to my workout to help digest it.
我在家里卧室、客厅来回溜达了好多圈，第二天一看，还是只有924步。
I walked up and down my bedroom and living room for many times, and the next day I saw only 924 steps.
我认真反思了一下，还是房子太小，等疫情结束，我要努力了。
I reflected, or the house is too small, when the end of the epidemic, I will work hard.
张君湖北省襄阳市图书编辑北漂9年，一壶酒、一场电影让家人靠近我在北京上大学，毕业后又留在北京，至今9年了。
A pot of wine and a movie brought my family closer to my college in Beijing. After graduation, I stayed in Beijing for 9 years.
因为我选择北漂，婚恋问题也不顺，我和父母的交流一直磕磕绊绊。
Because I choose the north drift, marriage problems are not smooth, and my parents and I have been stumbling exchanges.
平时和父母相聚不多，今年村里不让拜年，一家人宅在一起，父母意外地很高兴。
Usually and parents together not much, this year the village does not allow New Year, the family home together, parents are surprised very happy.
为了这个，父母开始想法设法做好吃的。
For this reason, parents began to try to cook delicious food.
父亲开了一坛子老酒，说是放了5年的陈酿，他兴致勃勃地起开封条，将大坛子里的酒倒入玻璃瓶中，酒香很快在屋里漾了开来酒端上桌子后，我看到杯子里有些浑浊，下意识皱了下眉。
My father opened a jar of old wine, which he had aged for five years. He opened it cheerfully and poured the wine from the jar into a glass bottle.
他忙说没事没事，放久了，有点沉淀，说不定味道更好。
He busy said nothing, put it long, a little precipitation, perhaps better taste.
我端起酒杯来，他眼巴巴地看着我，紧张得不得了。
I picked up my glass and he looked at me with eyes full of nervousness.
我喝了一口，味道很淡，应该是密封没有做好的缘故。
I took a sip and it tasted very light. It was supposed to be sealed because it wasn't ready.
我嘴上说不错不错，不愧是5年的陈酿。
I say it's nice. It's worth five years of aging.
他明显看出了我的敷衍，端起来喝了一口，也意识到味道确实不怎么样，讪讪地说，放久了放久了，不好喝了，你要是不喜欢就不喝了。
He obviously saw my perfunctory, took a sip of it, and, realizing that the taste was really bad, guiltily, After a long time, it was not easy to drink, and if you did not like it, you would not drink it.
吃完午饭后，他去锯柴，我没事刷刷抖音，正好刷到《囧妈》，看到电影里的母子俩为了去莫斯科旅行，不得不长期待在一个密闭空间里，各种代际矛盾逐步爆发，母子俩一路相爱相杀。
After lunch, he went to chop wood, I had no brush shake, just brush to "Jommy," see the movie mother and son to travel to Moscow, had to stay in a closed space, various generational contradictions gradually erupt, mother and son all the way to love each other kill each other.
看着电影笑了一会儿，我突然想起了今年春节的特殊情况，和爸爸还没喝完的那杯酒。
After watching the movie and laughing for a while, I suddenly remembered the special situation of the Spring Festival this year, and my father has not finished the drink.
原来人与人之间的理解真的这么艰难，即使亲如母子、父子，心意往往也很难相互传达。
The original understanding between people is so difficult, even if the parents like mother and child, father and son, the mind is often difficult to communicate with each other.
电影里的儿子不懂母亲的控制欲，我也不懂父亲因为跟不上生活的脚步，心底产生的忧虑。
The film son does not understand the mother's desire for control, I do not understand the father because of the pace of life, the bottom of my heart generated anxiety.
我真希望父母也能看到电影里母子俩敞开心扉对谈的一幕，家人能好好沟通，更理解彼此的选择。
I wish my parents could see the open heart of the film between mother and child, the family can communicate well, better understand each other's choices.
晚饭时候，我摆好桌子，弟弟问喝什么酒，我扭头对父亲说，要不还是把你那5年陈酿端上来吧。
At dinner I set the table, and my brother asked what he would have to drink, and I turned to my father and said, 'Why don't you give me your five years' worth of ageing?
父亲愣了一下，突然就眉开眼笑，说好，好，高兴得像是个被发了小红花的小孩子。
The father froze for a moment, suddenly a smile, said good, good, happy like a little red-flower child.
这几天，父亲一直忙着家中琐事，我还在找机会，拉着他一起看看《囧妈》。
These days, my father has been busy with household chores, and I'm still looking for a chance to pull him together to see "Damn."
我们父子间的隔阂，或许能在这个冬天，通过这样一部电影解冻一些。
The gulf between our father and son may thaw out some of it this winter through a movie like this.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------策划 | 崔玉敏 马延君。
I Am I (I) I I I - I I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I I - I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在武汉疫区，生活仍在继续。
In Wuhan epidemic area, life continues.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在武汉疫区，生活仍在继续";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "害怕时，打起精神。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Take heart when you're afraid.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
