疫情日记：武汉周边小城的防疫战。
Diary of epidemic situation: epidemic prevention war of small city around Wuhan.
刘妍 马延君。
Yanjun Liu.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
1月25日，湖北省襄阳市宣布暂停长途客运，自此，湖北省其他地级市已全部封锁。
The city of Xiangyang in Hubei Province suspended long-distance passenger transport on January 25, and other provincial cities in Hubei Province have been blocked since then.
封城后的武汉面临物资紧缺问题，一夜间，全国各地发起驰援武汉行动，不断输送医疗资源至武汉。
Wuhan after the closure of the city faced material shortages, all over the country launched a rescue operation, constantly sending medical resources to Wuhan.
在武汉周边，一些小城市及乡镇吸纳大量从武汉归来的返乡人口，在疫情冲击下，物资严重紧缺，医疗条件较差，处在困境之中。
Around Wuhan, some small cities and townships have absorbed a large number of returning population from Wuhan. Under the impact of the epidemic, materials are severely short, medical conditions are poor and they are in a difficult situation.
对信息的钝感，是另一层面的“灯下黑”口述：小江湖北省孝感市学生20岁口述时间：1月26日上午我在南京读大学。
Blunt sense of information, is another layer of "black under the light" oral: Xiaogan City, Hubei Province, 20 years old oral time: January 26, I am studying in Nanjing University.
1月13日，我从南京南站坐动车到汉口，又从汉口坐到孝感东站。
January 13, I from Nanjing South Station to take the train to Hankou, and from Hankou to Xiaoyan East Station.
当时我完全不知道（肺炎）这个事情，也没看到路人戴口罩。
I didn't know about it at all, and I didn't see anyone wearing a mask.
1月17日，我从孝感坐城际车到武昌处理些私事，中间经过汉口，上来很多武汉口音的乘客。
January 17, I from filial piety to Wuchang to deal with some private affairs, in the middle of Hankou, up a lot of Wuhan accent passengers.
当天回家后，我开始发烧，家里药品种类齐全，我就没去医院。
I returned home that day, I began to have a fever, the family medicine variety, I did not go to the hospital.
第二天，我和朋友去玩桌游，觉得身体特别疲惫，差点趴在桌游桌上睡着。
The next day, my friends and I went to play table games. I felt very tired and almost fell asleep at the table.
孝感距武汉不到80公里，但那个时候， 我没听说任何关于疫情的消息。
Filial piety is less than 80 kilometers away from Wuhan, but at that time, I did not hear any news about the epidemic.
直到21日，真假难辨的信息开始刷屏。
Until the 21st, the true and false information began to brush screen.
作为一个大学生，应该不信谣、不传谣，我力所能及地辟谣，转发靠谱的消息。
As a college student, should not believe, do not rumor, I can deny rumors, forward reliable information.
小区旁的药店，口罩已经抢空了，我和姐姐只好跑到另一个繁华的城区去找药店。
At the drugstore next to the neighborhood, the mask had been emptied, so my sister and I had to run to another busy city to find a pharmacy.
结果，街上的药店要么关门，要么口罩售罄，连普通的一次性口罩都要抢着买。
As a result, pharmacies on the streets either closed or sold out of masks, buying even common disposable masks.
孝感好像一下子进入魔幻现实状态，我有一点点被吓到。
Filial piety seems to enter a state of magic reality, I was a little scared.
烧一直没退，我谨慎地比对肺炎感染症状，反复检查体温和身体状况。
As the fever continued unabated, I carefully compared to the symptoms of pneumonia infection, repeatedly check body temperature and physical condition.
接连几天，我窝在卧室里，连客厅都很少去。
For days on end, I was confined to my bedroom, where I rarely went to the living room.
23日，我终于退烧，父亲不放心，带我去了医院。
23, I finally reduce fever, my father was not worried, took me to the hospital.
当时医院里人不多，医护人员都穿着防护服，带着口罩，全副武装的样子。
There were not many people in the hospital, and the staff were wearing protective clothing, wearing masks, and armed.
那天是腊月二十九，家人依照以往拜年的惯例，开车带我去走亲戚。
It was the twenty-ninth of December. My family took me to my relatives in accordance with the custom of visiting New Year.
虽然车程不过十几分钟，几乎不会在公共场合停留，我还是挺担心，跟父亲说，吃完午饭就回家，晚上在自己家吃。
Although it was only a few minutes' drive and I hardly stopped in public, I was worried and told my father that I would go home after lunch and eat at home at night.
父亲不以为然，说这就是人情社会。
The father disapproved, saying it was a humane society.
我内心浮起大大的问号，如果人出事儿了，还有什么人情社会呢。
I have a big question mark in my heart. If something happens to someone, what kind of human society is there?
晚上，看到有相关行政指令，父亲的态度才开始转变。
At night, the father's attitude began to change when he saw the relevant administrative instructions.
其他父辈的亲戚则比较难劝，父亲是兽医，一直用自己从医的专业知识说服他们带口罩，他用猪瘟类比，病毒如何传播，把养猪业弄得这么惨。
Relatives of other fathers are more difficult to persuade. The father, a veterinarian, has been using his medical expertise to persuade them to wear masks. He used the swine fever analogy, how the virus spread and made the pig industry so miserable.
年三十白天，我刷QQ空间，看到一条视频，画面是医院的环境， 一位患者带着哭腔说，“医生，你救救我。
Thirty days, I brush QQ space, see a video, screen is the hospital environment, a patient with a cry said, "Doctor, you save me.
”有人说视频里的场景是武汉的医院，但我听那个口音，明显就是孝感的。
"Some people said the scene in the video was a Wuhan hospital, but I listened to the accent, which was clearly filial.
当时心里特难受。
It was a terrible time.
我看到南京大学的同学自发组织了助力湖北捐助团，找靠谱的物资渠道，众筹采买，对接各个医院，还专门做了公众号和小程序。
I saw the Nanjing University students spontaneously organized a donor group to help Hubei find reliable material channels, crowd-fund-raising, docking hospitals, but also made special public number and small procedures.
我参与了筹款，同时联系孝感高中的校友群群主，在群里扩散，父亲也帮忙发了朋友圈。
I was involved in fund-raising, and I contacted the alumni group at Filial Feeling High School. My father helped spread the circle of friends.
24日到25日，自助湖北援助团捐助了两批物资，通过顺丰绿色通道送至武汉。
24 to 25, the self-help Hubei Mission donated two consignments of materials, through Shunfeng Green Channel to Wuhan.
没多久，孝感的医院也和武汉周边近20座城市一起“化缘”，我们又发起了第三批捐助，对口武汉周边的城镇医院，希望能尽快缓解“灯下黑”的状况。
Before long, the hospital of filial piety and Wuhan around the nearly 20 cities together "chemical margin," we launched a third donation, corresponding to Wuhan around the urban hospitals, hope to be able to alleviate the "black light" situation as soon as possible.
大年初一零点，孝感封城，伯伯和一些爷爷辈的亲戚终于意识到疫情的严重性，戴上了口罩。
At 0 pm on New Year's Day, filial piety closed, uncle and some grandpa's relatives finally realized the severity of the epidemic, put on a mask.
我想好了，如果再让我串门，我就直接把电话卡抽出来拔掉。
I figured if I were to drop in again, I'd pull out the phone card.
封城后，如何返京成了我最担心的事口述：潘宁咸宁市通山县 公司职员 24岁讲述时间：1月25日晚20号早上，我在公司搜了所有网上药店，没买到一个口罩——北京口罩脱销了。
On the morning of January 25th, I searched all the online pharmacies and didn't buy a mask. Beijing masks were out of stock.
当天晚上在武汉转车，街上已经没有多少人，一刷微博全部是疫情进展，我突然有点担心。
That night in Wuhan transfer, there are not many people in the street, a brush Weibo is all the progress of the epidemic, I suddenly a little worried.
可下了武汉到通山县的大巴，街上却几乎没有人戴口罩。
But after Wuhan to Tongshan County bus, but almost no one wearing masks on the street.
通山县距武汉市仅三个小时车程，但县里获取信息渠道少，当时的宣传可能不太到位，人们对如何自我防护还是没有认知。
Tongshan County is only three hours away from Wuhan city, but the county has less access to information, then propaganda may not be in place, people do not know how to protect themselves.
刚到家里时，爸妈也不了解肺炎的情况，我只好每天从早到晚给他们“洗脑”，发有关新闻和文章，强调出门一定要戴口罩，在我的全天信息“轰炸”下，他们总算意识到事情的严重性。
When I first got home, my parents didn't know about pneumonia, so I had to "brainwash" them every day from morning to night, post news and articles, emphasize the need to wear masks outside, and finally they realized the seriousness of the situation under my all-day message.
回家后，我几乎全天都在网上看新闻、转发医院的物资求助信息、在家族群里呼吁不要走亲访友，时间久了感觉整个人神经都是紧绷的。
When I got home, I spent almost all day reading the news on the Internet, relaying information about hospital supplies and appealing to family members not to visit relatives and friends.
所以那天早上得知要去外婆家聚会，我一下就哭了出来。
So that morning when I learned that I was going to my grandma's party, I burst out crying.
几个表哥表姐刚从武汉回来，我特别担心会出意外。
Several cousins have just returned from Wuhan, and I am particularly worried about an accident.
但乡村都看重人情，外公身体不好，孙辈们一年才回来一次，老人还是希望我们能去看看。
But the village value human, grandfather is not well, grandchildren came back only once a year, the old man still hope we can see.
一想到要和那么多人在一张桌子上吃饭、呼吸，我就特别崩溃，但不去也不行。
The thought of having to eat and breathe at the same table with so many people makes me break down, but I can't even go.
最后在我的劝说下，全家带口罩在一起聚了一会儿。
Finally, I persuaded the family to wear masks together for a while.
24号咸宁市封路，紧接着第二天中午下面的县、村也封了。
No. 24 Xianning City closed the road, the next day immediately after noon at the county, village also sealed.
听到这个消息，我总算松了口气，往年初一到初七大家都要到处拜年，没有强制性措施不会放弃走动，现在路一封，最起码爸妈不用出去了，可以减少感染的风险。
Hearing the news, I finally relieved that everyone had to pay New Year's Day to the seventh day of the New Year, no coercive measures will not give up walking, now a road, at least parents do not have to go out, can reduce the risk of infection.
但突然的封路也带来一大堆后续问题，我们这只有一条路连接县城，这条路一封就彻底出不去了。
But the sudden closure of the road also brought a lot of follow-up problems, we have only one way to connect the county, this road a completely out of.
不知道村里是否有应急措施，如果我们有发热情况该去哪？求助谁？如果家里没有存粮的话，该去哪买物资？食品价格会不会上涨？现在这些都是未知数。
I don't know if there are emergency measures in the village, where we should go if we have a fever, who to ask for help, where to buy food if there is no food in the house, and whether the price of food will go up?
乡村生活、交通都比不上城市便利，村里还有不少老人，这些问题如果没有考虑好，很容易造成麻烦。
Rural life and transportation are not as convenient as those in the city, and there are many old people in the village.
其实今年是我的本命年，也是我毕业的第一年，本来觉得这次回来家里人都会开开心心的过个年，我也攒了一点钱打算领父母去逛逛街、买点衣服，但是现在也没办法出门了。
In fact, this year is my life, is also my first year of graduation, I would have thought this home will be happy to spend the year, I also saved a little money to take my parents shopping, buy clothes, but now can not go out.
除夕那天，我看完白岩松的诗朗诵后就再也看不下去春晚了。
On New Year's Eve, after reading the poetry recitation of Baiyansong, I no longer look forward to the Spring Festival Evening.
一切发生的都太迅速了，我只能安慰自己，照顾好家人，相信我们还是会挺过去的。
Everything happened so quickly that I had to comfort myself, take care of my family and believe we would survive.
如今最让我担心的还是返京的事，不知道湖北什么时候能解封，如果假期结束还不能走，我的工作该怎么办？我每天都在倒数假期时间，过完年爸妈需要去福建打工，村里大部分年轻人也都要出去务工，如果出不去我们该怎样维生？没有特殊情况，我应该不会回家了口述：秦琴湖北省随州市 某乡镇基层公务员 25岁口述时间：1月26日下午早上8点，工作群里发了通知，除人在外地、生病和哺乳期的同事，其余人员下午1点钟全部到岗。
I don't know when Hubei can be unsealed if the holidays are over, what should I do if I can't leave after the holidays? I go to work in the countdown every day, and most of the young people in the village have to work in Fujian.
正式通知前，群里的消息从来没断过，值班的同事24小时在岗，其他人24小时待命，领导全部照常上班。
News from the group never stops before the official announcement, with co-workers on duty on duty around the clock and others on 24-hour standby to lead all the way to work.
但真收到紧急到岗通知，我还是有点紧张，感觉就要奔赴战场了。
But really received the emergency notice, I was still a little nervous, feeling about to go to the battlefield.
元旦前，就有肺炎的消息传来，街上零星能见到有人戴口罩，但当时大家都没太在意。
Before New Year's Day, there was news of pneumonia. Sporadic sightings of people wearing masks on the streets were not noticed at the time.
1月21日，我单位所在的乡镇正式进入全面防护，市场监管所、派出所和城管都去菜场巡查，活禽市场逐一封锁，禁止买卖野味，一些经营场所也纷纷开始消毒。
On January 21, the township where our unit is located officially entered the comprehensive protection, the market supervision offices, police stations and city management all went to the market inspection, poultry market block by block, prohibited the sale and purchase of game, some places of operation also began to disinfect.
群里发通知，说是情况严峻，要我们重视起来。
The group informed us that the situation was serious and required our attention.
虽然一直陆续有关于武汉肺炎的文件和报道，但好像是一下子，疫情就变得很严重。
Although there has been a succession of documents and reports of Wuhan pneumonia, but seems to be a sudden, the epidemic has become very serious.
工作指令下得特别突然，也可能之前有相应措施，只是我在基层，不知道而已。
Work orders under the special sudden, may also have the corresponding measures before, but I am at the grass-roots level, do not know.
那些官方通知，我们基层公务员和民众接收到的时间差不多，我们知道的时候，也会同时对外公布。
Those official announcements, our grass-roots civil servants and the public received the same amount of time, when we know, will also be made public.
区里要给农村和城镇的困难群众发口罩、体温计等医护用品，我给一个厂家打电话订购体温计，他们说，体温计都被市监局定走了。
I called a manufacturer to order a thermometer, which they said had been set aside by the city government.
24日零点，随州封城，网吧、酒吧和公共浴室都关业了，福利院、特殊学校和养老院早就不允许进出了。
At 0 on the 24th, the city of Suizhou, Internet cafes, bars and public bathrooms are closed, welfare homes, special schools and homes for the elderly are no longer allowed to enter or leave.
受访者供图 | 随州市街上有些小乡道尚能通行，下属随州的一个乡镇，离武汉仅相距140公里，熟路的人开车不到两个小时就能跑回来。
Some rural roads are passable at Suizhou City, a township in Suizhou province that is only 140 kilometers from Wuhan and familiar roads can be run back in less than two hours.
昨天，乡道封锁，所有村子都隔离了。
Yesterday, the township road was blocked and all the villages were isolated.
封城后，我一直没出门，每天中午定时汇总各村情况，登记从武汉返乡的人员，身体状况怎么样，是否隔离，再向上级汇报。
After the closure of the city, I have not left home, every day at noon regularly summarize the situation of the villages, registered from Wuhan returning to the people, physical condition, isolation, and then report to higher levels.
25日之前，随州没有试剂盒，一些疑似感染的病患难以确诊，人心惶惶的。
Before the 25th, Suizhou did not have test kits, some suspected infections of patients difficult to diagnose, panic.
但我爸始终不清楚状况，腊月29那天，他还去了麻将馆，没做任何防护措施。
But my father is still not clear about the situation, on the 29th, he also went to mahjong hall, did not do any protective measures.
我跟他反复强调好几次，他才不敢再出门。
I told him over and over again that he dared not go out again.
我家离单位所在的乡镇有一个半小时的车程，街道实施交通管制，我打了好多电话才找到能送我到镇上的车。
My home town is an hour and a half away, the street traffic control, I made a lot of phone calls to find a car to take me to the town.
因为交通管制，物流也保证不了时效，我年前买了些口罩，今天才发货。
Because traffic control, logistics can not guarantee the time limit, I bought some masks years ago, just delivered today.
下午开完会，就要正式全面深入摸排核实武汉返乡人员，严防瞒报疑似感染病例。
Afternoon after the meeting, to formally and thoroughly map and verify Wuhan returnees, strict prevention of suspected infection cases.
同事们都去村里发宣传单和口罩了，我现在在办公室值守。
Colleagues went to the village to hand out pamphlets and masks. I'm on duty at the office.
每个村仅能供给一盒外科口罩，原本是给值班执勤人员备的，同事出去的时候，每人都只带了一层外科口罩。
Each village can only supply a box of surgical masks, originally intended for duty staff, when colleagues go out, each wearing only a surgical mask.
据说，一批援助随州的防疫物资已经在路上了，会先供给医院，医护人员的情况比我们更紧急。
It is said that a lot of epidemic prevention supplies are already on the way to the states and will be provided to the hospitals first.
我所在的乡镇有四万左右人口，工作很多，任务很重，没有特殊情况，我应该一直住在单位宿舍，不会回家了。
I live in a township with a population of about 40,000, lots of work, a heavy task, no special circumstances, I should always live in the unit dormitory, will not go home.
赶回家乡后，我一个人过了春节口述：郭佳佳湖北省黄冈市学生 24岁口述时间：1月26日上午1月24日，除夕夜，我一个人在家中吃完了年夜饭。
I went home alone after the Spring Festival oral: Guo Jiajia Huanggang City, Huanggang City, 24 years old Oral time: January 26, January 24, morning, New Year's Eve, I eat dinner alone at home.
1月初时，父母到江苏照顾生病的外婆，我在外地实习没能赶过去。
In early January, my parents went to Jiangsu to take care of my sick grandmother.
等到实习结束，父母嘱咐我先回黄冈，等在家过完年后再一起去看外婆。
When the internship was over, my parents told me to go back to Huang Gang and wait for me to see my grandmother after the New Year.
原计划父母会在1月23日经由武汉返回家中团聚，可就在他们返程的前几天，关于肺炎的各种消息突然都冒了出来。
The parents were due to return home via Wuhan on January 23, but a few days before their return, news of pneumonia suddenly appeared.
钟南山院士讲话后，关于封城的消息更是传个不停。
Zhong Nan Shan academician speech, the news about the closure of the city is spread.
父母都慌了神，不放心我和姐姐独自在家，急着想赶回来。
My parents panic, I do not trust my sister and I alone at home, anxious to come back.
在医院做护士的姐姐更担心病毒的传染性，说什么也不肯让他们回湖北。
Her sister, a nurse in the hospital, was more worried about the infectivity of the virus and said nothing would send them back to Hubei.
一番争执后，父母最终退了回家的票，准备留在江苏陪外婆过个新年。
After an argument, their parents eventually withdrew their tickets to stay with their grandmother in Jiangsu for the New Year.
这几天，我守在家中不停刷微博，眼看着确诊病例逐步增加，求助信息也越来越多，脑袋里轰隆轰隆地响，不知道为什么短短几天事情就变成了这样。
Over the past few days, I've been at home brushing microblogs, watching a steady increase in confirmed cases, more help messages, a rumbling head, wondering why things turn out like this in a matter of days.
姐姐越来越忙，她并没在定点收治肺炎病人的医院工作，但来看发热的病人也挤满了门诊。
Her sister got busier and busier. She did not work at the hospital where the patients were treated for pneumonia, but the patients who came to see the fever were also crowded with out-patients.
自从医院里发热病人增多后，姐姐怕出现意外情况传染给我，一直没敢回家，搬到了同事家中，我也不敢再给她增加压力，只能每天守着微信等她报平安。
Since the hospital feverish patients have increased, my sister afraid of unforeseen circumstances infect me, has not dared to go home, moved to the home of her colleagues, I did not dare to increase pressure on her, only to wait for a daily message to her safety.
听她说，医院储备的防护物资不太充足，医生和护士只能定量领取，我连跑了十几家药店，均被告知口罩已经断货，网上也买不到能立即发货的医用口罩。
She said that the hospital stock of protective equipment is not enough, doctors and nurses can only receive rations, I even ran a dozen pharmacies, were told that the mask has been out of stock, the Internet can not buy immediate delivery of medical masks.
网上大部分都是有关武汉的情况报道，我只好不停在各种渠道转发黄冈各医院的求助信息，希望外界能尽快注意到我们这的情况。
Wuhan is the majority of the online situation reports, I had to constantly in various channels to forward the help information of the Wanggang hospitals, hope that the outside world can soon notice our situation.
23日，武汉确定封城，当天晚上包括黄冈在内六个地区也发布了封城消息。
23, Wuhan confirmed the closure of the city, that night including the Huanggang six areas have also released the news.
我一边庆幸父母没有赶着回来，不然不知道要面对怎样的窘境，一边又在担心姐姐的状况，可在一片混乱中，除了不停转发求助信息，我什么也做不了。
I was glad that my parents had not hurried back, or I did not know what the dilemma would be. I was worried about my sister's condition, but in the midst of all the confusion, I could do nothing but relay help.
那天晚上，我还梦见外婆病危，等着见我最后一面，但我赶到高速路口又不能出城，吓出了一身冷汗。
That night, I dreamt Grandma was dying, waiting to see me for the last time, but I got to the intersection and couldn't get out of town, scared out of a cold sweat.
除夕夜里，姐姐在医院值班，我一个人在家中过完了春节。
On New Year's Eve, my sister is on duty in the hospital, I spent the Spring Festival at home alone.
怕父母担心，我特意做了好多菜摆在桌子上和他们视频，可一口都吃不下去。
Afraid of parents worried, I made a number of dishes on the table and their video, but can not eat a mouthful.
二十多年来，这是我们一家人第一次分开度过了除夕。
For the first time in more than two decades, our family spent New Year's Eve apart.
初一早上，家里和街上依旧冷冷清清，好在志愿者对接群里传来消息，一批社会捐赠的医用防护物资即将抵达黄冈，我这才多少放下心来。
On the morning of the first day of junior high school, my family and street were still cold and cheerless, but I was more or less relieved when news came from the volunteer docking group that a batch of medical protection materials donated by society was about to arrive in Huanggang.
防疫战场上的新闻新兵口述：苏洋湖北省鄂州市记者25岁口述时间：1月26日晚年三十儿那天，我去一家药店采访，当时国家已经明文规定不允许口罩坐地起价，但药店里口罩价格还是涨了不少。
On January 26, in my thirtieth year of life, I went to a drugstore where the price of masks was not allowed to start, but prices rose a lot.
好多人排队买口罩，我也买了40个，拆开发现，我买到的口罩包装上写着滤料是KN95，摸起来是棉布材质。
A lot of people lined up to buy masks, and I also bought 40. I opened them and found that the mask I bought had a KN95 filter on the wrapper and felt made of cotton cloth.
我怀疑这种口罩不能起到防疫效果，反映给了药店和市场监管局。
I suspect that the mask won't have a protective effect and was reported to the Drug Store and the Market Regulatory Authority.
初一，我去药店看，这款口罩还在卖，我反馈给了市委督查办。
On the first day of junior high school, I went to the drugstore to see that the mask was still on sale.
相关部门联系我，要我提供口罩样本，他们会拿去检测。
The authorities contacted me and asked me to provide a sample of the mask, which they would take to the test.
之前，鄂州确诊感染病例是1例，今天我去第三医院采访，得到的确诊病例数据是3例，疑似病例50例。
Before, Huzhou confirmed infection case is a case, today I went to the third hospital interview, the confirmed case data is 3 cases, 50 suspected cases.
因为没有试剂盒，很难确诊，估计明后天数据会增加很多。
Because there is no test kit, it is difficult to confirm, the data is expected to increase significantly tomorrow.
我闺蜜在武汉，她婆婆在住院，送婆婆去医院回来后几天，她开始咳嗽，吃了很多药也没好，后来有了腹泻的状况，她才去医院做CT检查，查出来是肺炎感染早期。
My daughter-in-law in Wuhan, her mother-in-law in hospital, sent back a few days after her mother-in-law to the hospital, she began to cough, took a lot of medicine did not recover, and then diarrhea, she went to the hospital for a CT examination, found pneumonia infection early.
医生建议她在家里隔离，开了些药，如果再不去医院，病情拖得严重了就比较复杂。
The doctor advised her to stay at home and prescribe some medicine, which would be complicated if she did not go to the hospital again.
鄂州的医疗条件没有武汉好，医院也少，下面一些乡镇的村民防疫意识不高，很多都不愿戴口罩，照旧串门拜年。
Huizhou medical conditions are not as good as Wuhan, hospitals are few, the following townships villagers vaccination awareness is not high, many do not want to wear masks, or visit the New Year.
有些市民出现干咳、泻像的症状，但医院里病患饱和，很多人担心交叉感染，有疑似感染症状也不敢贸然去医院检查，就这么从感染早期拖到中期。
Some citizens have dry cough and diarrhea symptoms, but the hospital is saturated with patients, many people worry about cross-infection, suspected infection symptoms do not dare to rushed to the hospital to check, so from the early stage of infection to the medium term.
还有一些人，不清楚情况，正在想方设法地离开湖北。
Still others, unaware of the situation, are trying to get out of Hubei province.
为了控制人员流动引发的传染风险，今天中午12点开始，除经许可的应急保供运输车、公务用车外，中心城区实行机动车禁行，132台出租车统一征调，作为紧急情况的交通保障。
In order to control the risk of infection caused by the movement of people, starting today at 12 noon, motor vehicles are banned in central urban areas and 132 taxis are unified as a traffic guarantee for emergency situations, in addition to authorized emergency guarantee vehicles and official vehicles.
有个同事晚上十点钟才下班，只能蹬着共享单车回家，还感慨说，半夜骑车，实在太酸爽了。
A co-worker came home from work at 10 p. m., only to pedal home with his bike. He said it was too sour to ride at midnight.
受访者供图 | 电台主持人的工作护具鄂州市第三医院是防疫的主战场，确诊和疑似感染的病人都会被送去隔离。
The third hospital in Huizhou City is the main battleground for epidemic prevention. Patients diagnosed and suspected of infection will be quarantined.
今天出门采访前，爸妈劝我别去，因为我在1月14日查出呼吸道感染，不是病毒性的，但一直在咳嗽，他们担心我会被感染。
Before going out to interview today, my parents advised me not to go, because I found respiratory tract infection on January 14, not viral, but have been coughing, they fear I will be infected.
我没管那么多，脸都没来得及洗，穿好衣服，戴上口罩就出发了。
I had no time to wash my face, put on my clothes, put on a mask and set off.
医院现场，我看到市领导、院长和医护人员，也几乎都只带了一个口罩，没有全套的防护设备，还在激烈地讨论防疫工作。
At the hospital site, I saw city leaders, deans and paramedics, almost all wearing only one mask, no full set of protective equipment, and intense discussions about vaccination.
市领导作出指示，要把三医院的一个戒毒所拆掉，改造升级成小汤山那样的防疫所，专门收治确诊的患者，计划在15天内落成。
The city leaders gave instructions to dismantle a drug rehabilitation centre in the three hospitals and upgrade it into a small soup kitchen for patients diagnosed with the disease. The plan is to be completed within 15 days.
回家后，我老爸站在门口，拿着消毒液，把我全身消了个毒。
When I got home, my dad stood at the door, holding the disinfectant and poisoned me all over.
我拿着酒精把钥匙和采访本都擦了一遍，衣服脱在通风的地方。
I wiped the keys and the interview book with the alcohol and took off my clothes in the ventilated place.
其实我也有点慌，不知是不是心理作用，回家之后我就开始腹泻。
In fact, I also a little panic, I do not know whether the psychological role, home after I began to diarrhea.
我从2018年9月开始做记者，算是新闻新兵。
I've been a journalist since September 2018, and I'm a news recruit.
上学的时候，老师们都说，好记者一定要有担当和责任。
At school, teachers say that a good reporter must be responsible and responsible.
微博上有好多鄂州人，特别恐慌，想知道到底怎么了，他们怕自己接收到的信息不公开、不透明。
There are a lot of Hubei people on Weibo, especially panic, want to know exactly how, they fear that the information they receive is not open, opaque.
这几天我不停地发自己采访了解到的消息，想让他们安心下来。
These days I keep sending the news from my interviews to reassure them.
现在，鄂州最急迫的需要是医护物资，和市民的防疫用品。
Now, the most urgent need in Huizhou is medical supplies, and epidemic prevention supplies for the public.
药店里的医护用品，包括体温计，都没得卖了。
The medical supplies in the drugstore, including the thermometer, were not sold.
超市的货品也供应不足，大桶的矿泉水、大米全部售罄。
Supermarket goods are also in short supply, barrels of mineral water, rice all sold out.
超市老板跟我讲，你是记者，能不能告诉我，什么时候是个头啊这个事情。
Supermarket owner told me, you are a reporter, can you tell me when it is a matter of time.
我们记者再不对外发声，武汉周边的小城市似乎会被忽视。
Our reporter no longer external voice, Wuhan surrounding the small cities seem to be ignored.
我不想让我的城市因为信息闭塞，就这么被遗忘掉。
I don't want my city to be forgotten because of the lack of information.
*为保护受访者隐私，文中部分为化名。
* In order to protect the privacy of interviewees, the text is partly pseudonym.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------撰文 | 刘妍马延君版式|曾杏。
I Am I I (I) I I I - I I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情日记：武汉周边小城的防疫战。
Diary of epidemic situation: epidemic prevention war of small city around Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情日记：武汉周边小城的防疫战";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; epidemic diary: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in a small city around Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "在困境之中建立秩序。
var msg _ desc = & quot; established order in difficult circumstances.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
