一个武汉被感染医生的自述/* declared */。
A self-report by an infected Wuhan doctor / * declared * /.
一个武汉被感染医生的自述<br>。
An infected Wuhan doctor's self-statement; br & gt;;
| title       = 一个武汉被感染医生的自述。
A story by an infected Wuhan doctor.
一个武汉被感染医生的自述。
The story of an infected Wuhan doctor.
李萍萍。
Li Pingping.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
在武汉某定点医院工作的李萍萍，讲述了抗击新型肺炎的医务人员在物资紧缺、人手不足的情况下，度过了艰难一夜。
Li Pingping, who works in a designated hospital in Wuhan, tells of a difficult night spent by medical staff fighting the new pneumonia amid shortages and understaffing.
连续接诊13小时后，李萍萍也病倒了。
After 13 hours of continuous treatment, Li Pingping also fell ill.
此后，因没有试剂盒，李萍萍不能被纳入确诊数字之中。
Since then, Li Pingping has been unable to be included in the confirmed figure because there is no test kit.
李萍萍口述武汉市某定点医院 医护人员讲述时间：2020年1月25日成为定点医院的前夕1月20日开始，我生病的一周前，陆续接诊、管床了几名疑似病人。
Li Pingping dictates that medical staff at a designated hospital in Wuhan will speak about time: January 20, 2020, the eve of becoming a designated hospital, January 20, I was sick a week ago, a number of consultations, tube bed several suspected patients.
第一位是名73岁的老年男性患者，门诊以纳差收入院，患者在家有5天没吃东西，不发热、不咳嗽。
The first, a 73-year-old elderly male patient, was hospitalized in a poor-income home for five days without food, fever or coughing.
这个病人我有密切接触史，因为他来的时候站不起来了，我和其他几名医生、护士和家属合力把他抬床上去。
The patient was in close contact with me because he could not stand up and I joined forces with several other doctors, nurses and family to carry him to bed.
我马上安排了抽血，给他做了胸部CT，当时他的情况比较严重，是典型的病毒肺CT征象，根据当时国家卫健委发布的最新诊疗方案，他可以确定为疑似病例。
I immediately arranged for a blood sample to be taken and a chest CT was performed on him. At the time, he was in a serious condition, typical of viral pulmonary CT features, and he could be identified as a suspected case according to the latest diagnosis and treatment plan issued by the National Board of Health at the time.
因为呼吸科没有床，他等到晚上呼吸科有床位了，才转了过去。
As the respiratory department had no bed, he waited until night when the respiratory department had a bed.
第二例是一个说自己腹痛的女人。
The second case is a woman who says she has an abdominal pain.
她说是腹痛，其实是胃肠道消化不良的症状。
She said it was abdominal pain, which was actually a symptom of gastrointestinal indigestion.
这个病人知道她自己有肺部感染的状况。
The patient is aware of her own lung infection.
来我这里之前，她在呼吸科就诊，做了CT后，医生给她开了入院证，结果因为没有床位，她想曲线救国，先住到我们科室来。
Before coming to me, she was in the respiratory department, after a CT, the doctor gave her a hospital certificate, because there is no bed, she wanted to curve save the country, first to live in our department.
实际上她有几天的发热、咳嗽病史了，但是我问病史的时候她不说，直到我查她门诊病历和检查结果以后，她才告诉我。
She actually had a few days of fever and coughing, but when I asked her about her medical history she would not tell me until I looked up her clinical history and the results of the examination.
还有一名我们医院ICU转入的一个病人，黄疸原因待查。
There is also a patient of our hospital ICU transfer, jaundice reasons to be investigated.
他住院期间一直发热，有肺部感染的症状，一周复查后没有明显改善，这位病人后来转去了另一家定点医院。
He was hospitalized with fever and signs of a lung infection and did not improve significantly after a week's review. The patient was later transferred to another designated hospital.
接诊这三名病人的时候，我没有三级防护，就穿白大褂、戴两层外科口罩、一个外科的普通一次性帽子。
When I attended to these three patients, I had no level-III protection. I wore a white coat, two surgical masks, and an ordinary disposable surgical cap.
那个时候，我们医院的物资已经紧缺，只有呼吸科、急诊科和重症医学科才配备三级防护。
At that time, our hospital was already short of supplies, and only respiratory, emergency and severe medical disciplines were equipped with tertiary protection.
我们是二级防护。
We're secondary protection.
1月21日，我们医院接到通知，成为定点医院。
On 21 January, our hospital was notified as a designated hospital.
定点医院第一夜接到调令的第二天，我们就把整个医院给腾空了，用来收治病毒肺的患者。
The day after we received the transfer on the first night of the appointment, we emptied the entire hospital for treatment of patients with viral pulmonary disease.
当天下午，医院给我们开会，讲怎么进行三级预防。
That afternoon, the hospital gave us a meeting to talk about tertiary prevention.
但是，在当时医院物资没配备齐全的情况下，我们很难全体做三级防护。
However, when the hospital was not fully equipped, it was difficult for all of us to do level 3 protection.
1月22日，医院的一些科室改造成了输液室，给大量门诊病人输液、留观。
On 22 January, some sections of the hospital were converted into infusion rooms for a large number of outpatient infusions and visits.
一个输液室大概容纳8个人，一次性可以接待50多个病人。
One infusion room accommodates about eight people and can accommodate more than 50 patients at a time.
晚上7点，我们开始接诊了。
At 7: 00 p. m., we started our appointments.
那时病房还没开放，大量病人涌入、停留在门诊和输液室。
The wards were still open, and there was an influx of patients staying in out-patient and infusion rooms.
22日那天晚上我那边陆续来了200个病人，为了给病人打针输液，护士们流水线作业，累坏了。
On the evening of the 22nd, I had 200 patients coming in, tired out in order to inject the patient with fluid.
一些医生和护士，只有普通外科口罩，戴了两层，就开始接诊病人。
Some doctors and nurses, only general surgical masks and wearing two layers, began treating patients.
一个爸爸和奶奶，估计还不知道我们这里改成了定点医院，抱着他们家孩子急吼吼地往这里跑，说孩子发烧40度，想输液。
A father and grandmother, presumably unaware that we had changed to a designated hospital, hugged their children and rushed here screaming that the child had a fever of 40 degrees and wanted to get an infusion.
当时我们病房里全都是病毒肺的病人，我怕他们三个人染上这个病毒，急得赶紧把他们往外赶。
Our ward was full of viral lung patients, and I was afraid the three of them might catch the virus and hurry them out.
我说，这里不收小孩子，全是病毒，你们快走，去儿科。
I said, there's no kids here. It's all viruses. You guys go. Pediatrics.
他们说，儿科那边楼封住了，我怎么去。
They say the pediatric wing is sealed. How can I get there?
由于缺少指引，没有人告诉他们儿科那边楼封了，接下来该去哪里。
For lack of guidance, no one told them where to go next, since the paediatric wing was sealed.
我也有孩子，理解他们的心情，想带他们去，但那么多病人要处理，实在走不开。
I also have children, understand their feelings, want to take them, but so many patients have to deal with, can not leave.
跟他们说明了情况，他们就赶紧跑了。
Tell them what happened, and they run away.
缺少指引牌，缺少指引人员，病人们在医院里有时会走错地方。
There is a lack of signboards and guidance staff, and patients sometimes go in the wrong places in hospitals.
有些病人，医生看他们的片子，就知道是病毒肺，他们却觉得自己不是而别人是，害怕别人走来走去，感染了他们。
Some patients, doctors watching their movies, know it's a viral lung, but they feel like they're not and others are, afraid that others will walk around and infect them.
由于病人多，我们忙不过来，护士们给病人们打针几乎没有停下来过，也没有帮我们维持秩序的人，所以病人和家属等久了就不耐烦。
Because of the number of patients and our busy schedules, the nurses gave the patients almost no stop and did not help us maintain order, so the patients and their families waited a long time impatience.
那晚，有一个护士给一个病人打了针，让病人自己拿着吊瓶去找凳子坐，病人不满意，骂骂咧咧，要求护士给他把吊瓶提着，领到座位上，另一个同事怕病人吵，过去把他领到凳子上安抚了。
That night, one of the nurses gave a patient an injection and told him to take the bottle to the stool. The patient was not satisfied. He asked the nurse to carry the bottle to his seat.
我和同事注意到这种病是在1月初。
My colleagues and I noticed that it was early January.
当时来了卫计委的文件，说来查武汉的不明肺炎。
At that time came the documents of the health and planning commission, said to check the unidentified pneumonia in Wuhan.
我们医院有科室主任提议，需要成立专门的隔离病房。
Our hospital has a department director's proposal, needs to set up the special isolation ward.
可惜最后这个意见没有被采纳。
In the end, unfortunately, the idea was not adopted.
临床的医生们很紧张，也很谨慎，可是那时候医院的物资就缺乏了。
The clinicians were nervous and cautious, but by then the hospital was short of supplies.
不是一线科室，没有配备三级防护给医务人员，一线科室像急诊科、呼吸科和重症监护室，他们的物资也都紧张。
Not the front-line departments, not equipped with tertiary protection for medical personnel, front-line departments such as emergency, respiratory and intensive care units, their supplies are also strained.
为了节约，我们穿防护服的时候，外面会再套手术隔离衣，这样手术衣丢了，防护服还可以用。
In order to save money, we wear protective clothing, the outside of the operation will be covered in the isolation clothing, so that the surgical clothes lost, protective clothing can be used.
有段时间，一个防护服，三个护士轮流穿，万一有一个是潜在感染者，就会很麻烦。
For a while, one suit, three nurses took turns wearing it, in case one of the potential infected, will be very troublesome.
现在不要钱，就要物资保护我们自己。
Without money now, we need supplies to protect ourselves.
如果继续物资缺乏，感染的医护只会更多，也会影响开展诊疗工作。
If supplies continue to be scarce, there will only be more medical care for infections, which will also affect the work of diagnosis and treatment.
这些天，我们遇到了一些不便。
We have met with some inconvenience these days.
1月23日10点开始，武汉封城了，市内公交停摆，很多医生上班不方便。
January 23 10: 00, Wuhan closed the city, the city bus stop, many doctors to work inconvenient.
医生也是潜在感染者，不适宜在路上走，为此我们联系了一些宾馆，宾馆也不太愿意我们住。
Doctors are also potential infections, not suitable for the road, so we contacted a number of hotels, the hotel is not very willing to live with us.
好在这几天陆续有好心人援助我们，同事们才住进了宾馆。
Fortunately, over the past few days, a good heart to help us, colleagues just live in the hotel.
一些人有特殊的困难，比如一对夫妻都要上一线，孩子又没有老人帮忙，丈夫就问，能不能他把老婆那套班也上了，让老婆在家带孩子。
Some people have special difficulties, such as a couple on the line, the children do not have the elderly help, the husband asked, can he also his wife that set of classes, let his wife take care of the children at home.
外界给武汉捐了一些物资，不知为什么，我和同事还没有拿到。
The outside world donated some materials to Wuhan, I do not know why, my colleagues and I have not received.
一些科室的主任，为了自己下面的人，自己去联系接受捐赠的物资。
Some section directors, for their own people, to contact the donated material.
我们主任给我们拿到了一批，可以维持大概一周，其他的科室就不清楚了。
Our director has given us a batch that will last about a week, and the rest of the department is not clear.
主任说，再坚持一下，等有了物资再上战场。
The director said he would hold out until supplies were available.
一些病人倒在了门诊，尸体有段时间得不到处理。
Some patients fell to the clinic and the bodies remained untreated for some time.
后来去了现场的同事告诉我，殡仪馆的人到了现场，说这种尸体要特殊处理，让我们自己包裹好尸体。
Colleagues who went to the scene later told me that the undertaker's men had come to the scene and said that the bodies needed special treatment and that we should wrap them up ourselves.
网上有人说，尸体来不及处理是造谣，我看到了也很生气。
Some people on the Internet said that the body is not enough time to deal with lies, I saw it is also very angry.
正常时期不是这样的，病人宣布死亡，电话联系了殡仪馆，殡仪馆会直接来处理。
This is not the case in normal times, patients declare dead, the phone calls to the funeral home, the funeral home will deal with it directly.
我那天接触的病人，有几个见到的时候已经不行了，有些是因为本身疾病发展得很快，氧饱和度只有40几，这种病人属于呼吸衰竭，氧饱和度不行。
Some of the patients I contacted the other day were no longer able to see it, some because their diseases were developing rapidly and their oxygen saturation was only 40 or so.
吸氧没用，需要呼吸机，重症监护室收不进去，呼吸机我们科室没有。
Oxygen does not work, we need a ventilator, intensive care unit can not enter, breathing machine our department does not.
即使有，不是呼吸科医生护士，之前没有指导和培训，也不会用。
If there is, it is not a respiratory doctor nurse, there was no previous guidance and training, nor will it be used.
没有试剂盒，停在“疑似病例”没想到，在这样的情况下才上了一天班，我就倒下了。
No test kit, stopped in the "suspected case" did not expect, in such a situation only a day on the job, I fell down.
1月22日成为定点医院第一天，我从傍晚7点开始工作，忙了一个晚上，第二天早上8点下夜班，开始感觉咽痛、胸闷。
January 22 became the first day of the designated hospital, I began to work from 7 p.m., busy all night, the next morning at 8 a.m. night shift, began to feel sore throat, chest tightness.
那天我在家休息，从中午我开始发热，低热，这引起我的警惕，于是我到附近的医院看病。
I rested at home that day, and from noon I began to get feverish and feverish, which alerted me, so I went to a nearby hospital.
当时我还心存侥幸，想着只是呼吸道感染，那去我们医院做CT，那里病毒密度比较高，反而有染病风险。
At the time, I was lucky to think only respiratory infections, that we go to the hospital for CT, where the virus density is relatively high, but there is a risk of infection.
结果拿到检查报告，根据CT结果，我也“中招”了。
Results got the examination report, according to CT results, I also "hit the jackpot."
现在是我生病的第三天，还是间断发热、乏力，不过已经没有胸闷的症状。
This is my third day of illness, or intermittent fever, fatigue, but no symptoms of chest tightness.
从我的CT结果上看，感染病灶不大，应该是初期。
From my CT findings, the infection is small and should be early.
可能跟我当时接触病人多、工作强度大、抵抗力下降有关。
It may have something to do with my exposure to more patients, high intensity of work and reduced resistance.
现在，我在家里隔离治疗。
Right now, I'm home secluded.
妈妈每天会给我做鸡汤，差我丈夫给我送过来。
Mother would make chicken soup for me every day and send it to me from my husband.
我要上前线，就要和家人隔离，因为即使没病，也是潜在感染源，我怕传染给他们。
I want to go to the front, we have to isolate the family, because even if not ill, but also a potential source of infection, I am afraid to infect them.
孩子早就送走了，在我接触接诊完那名73岁老人的时候，我给他看了CT，是诊断标准里典型的CT表现，知道他是疑似病例。
The child was long gone, and by the time I approached the 73-year-old, I had shown him a CT scan, typical of the diagnostic criteria, that he was a suspected case.
看完他后，我就打电话给妈妈，让她把娃带走，去娃娃的爷爷奶奶家住。
After watching him, I called my mother and asked her to take her to her grandpa's house.
现在，我妈妈每天给我发点孩子的视频看，给我鼓励。
Now, my mom sends me some videos of the kids every day to encourage me.
我的娃现在会说：妈妈，爱你。
My baby will now say: Mum, love you.
很可爱，我希望自己早点康复，陪他长大。
Very lovely, I hope to recover as soon as possible, accompany him to grow up.
我这样的情况，不在官方公布的被感染人数里。
I'm not in the official tally of the number of people infected.
根据当时的诊疗标准，只有经过试剂检验确定才能定为确诊病例。
According to the standards of diagnosis and treatment at that time, only after reagent testing can be identified as confirmed cases.
我在我们医院和另一家定点医院咨询，都没排到做试剂测试的机会。
I consulted at our hospital and at another appointment, but I didn't get a chance to do a reagent test.
没有试剂盒检测结果，就没有依据说自己确诊了，不管情况如何，最多只能算疑似。
No test kit test results, there is no basis for their own diagnosis, regardless of the circumstances, at most can only be suspected.
不知道如果真的染上这个病，但确诊不了的情况算不算工伤，很多医护人员应该也有跟我一样的困惑。
I do not know if the disease, but the diagnosis is not a work injury, many health care workers should have the same confusion as me.
特殊状况还会持续多久，我不知道。
I don't know how long the special situation will last.
武汉的“小汤山”（指武汉“火神山”医院）在建，物资在往武汉运送。
Wuhan "Xiaotangshan" (refers to Wuhan "fire god mountain" hospital) is under construction, supplies are being transported to Wuhan.
今天，武汉通知说机动车1月26号开始也不能上路了。
Today, Wuhan announced that motor vehicles will not be allowed to start on January 26.
病人应该会减少，可能很快会结束，我也希望能很快结束。
The patient should be reduced, probably soon, and I hope it will be over soon.
*当事人信息有模糊处理撰文| 温丽虹。
:: Fuzzy processing of party information at Ren Lihong.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一个武汉被感染医生的自述。
The story of an infected Wuhan doctor.
