封城后，武汉人在经历什么。
After sealing the city, Wuhan people are experiencing what.
温丽虹成琨崔玉敏。
Wen Lihong Jade Cui Yumin.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
1月23日凌晨，武汉宣布自10时起，全市的航空、铁路、城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营，无特殊原因，市民不要离开武汉。
In the early morning of January 23, Wuhan announced that from 10: 00, the city's air, rail, urban public transport, subway, ferry, long-distance passenger transport operation suspended, without special reasons, the public do not leave Wuhan.
新型冠状病毒肺炎，正考验着这座九省通衢的特大城市。
The thoroughfare of the nine provinces has been tested by the new coronavirus pneumonia.
此后24小时，真实故事计划访问了几位选择留守武汉城的市民，还有医生、的士司机、外卖送餐员，他们是维持城市基本运营的行业从业者，我们试图了解留守武汉城中的人们正在经历什么，城中秩序如何，他们需要哪些方面的支援。
Over the next 24 hours, The True Story Project interviewed several citizens who chose to stay in Wuhan City, as well as doctors, taxi drivers, takeaway waiters, and industry practitioners who maintain basic urban operations. We tried to understand what the people left behind in Wuhan were going through, what order there was in the city, and what support they needed.
留守武汉，拒绝家人探望的女孩口述：陈丹武汉市汉阳区 公司职员口述时间：1月23日下午现在，我一个人在武汉的出租屋里。
Wuhan, the girls refused to family visit oral time: Chen Dan Wuhan City Hanyang District Company staff dictation time: January 23 afternoon now, I alone in Wuhan rental room.
老家在距离武汉城开车4小时的地方。
It was four hours' drive from Wuhan city.
1月20号，我发高烧38.2度。
On January 20th, I had a fever of 38.2 degrees.
我不想把病传染给家里人，决定独自留在武汉，我跟爸妈说，春节不准备回家了。
I do not want to spread the disease to the family, decided to stay alone in Wuhan, I told my parents, Spring Festival is not ready to go home.
1月中旬，新闻报道中只有41例病例，政府的宣传口径让我们觉得不用慌，所以当时我身边没有人戴口罩。
In mid-January, there were only 41 cases reported in the press, and the government's propaganda left us unperturbed, so no one was wearing a mask.
19日晚上，一晚上突然报了77例新增病例，那天晚上开始，才有人戴口罩。
On the night of the 19th, 77 new cases were suddenly reported overnight, and no one was wearing a mask until that night.
在这个节骨眼生了病，我开始想去同济医院看，可考虑到那里是定点诊疗医院，我怕接触确诊患者容易感染病毒，于是我去了一家市里不那么大的医院看病。
When I got sick at this point, I began to want to see Tongji Hospital. But I was afraid that I would be vulnerable to infection because it was a designated hospital.
医院会让咳嗽得厉害的患者，直接去做CT，我咳嗽得不厉害，医生做了血常规的检查，判断我是病毒性感冒，可他也不敢排除新型肺炎的可能。
The hospital will let the patient cough badly, go directly to CT, I cough not serious, the doctor did a routine blood test, judge I was viral cold, but he did not dare to rule out the possibility of new pneumonia.
他们那里不能确诊，让我在医院打抗病毒的针，然后回去吃药、观察。
They can not diagnose there, let me in the hospital for antiviral injection, and then go back to take medicine, observation.
医生嘱咐我，如果在家里出现发热、浑身没有力气、头晕、咳嗽，就去同济医院看——特别是没有力气和咳嗽，这两点需要注意。
The doctor told me to go to Tongji Hospital if there was fever, physical infirmity, dizziness and coughing at home - especially lack of energy and cough, both of which need attention.
现在我退烧了，喉咙疼，偶尔咳嗽，有力气。
Now I have a fever, a sore throat, an occasional cough, and strength.
但是不知道为什么，心里还是很担心，怕我是新型肺炎。
But do not know why, the heart is still very worried, afraid I am a new type of pneumonia.
所以，我现在时刻留意自己是不是还有力气。
So now I'm on the lookout for strength.
医生告诉我，只有同济、协和、金银潭医院等官方指定的发热门诊医院可以确诊，我不敢去，那里排队看病的人太多，我担心如果我没病，去了也会染上病毒。
The doctors told me that only officially designated out-patient hospitals, such as Tongji, Concorde and Gold and Silver Pool Hospitals, could be diagnosed. I did not dare to go. There were too many people queuing up there.
所以，我只能独自待在家里，天天消毒。
Therefore, I can only stay at home alone, disinfecting every day.
每天吃阿莫西林和999之类的药物治疗感冒，部分抗普通流感病毒的药品，我就买不到了。
I can't buy drugs like amoxicillin and 999 every day to treat colds and some medicines to fight common influenza viruses.
我还有15个口罩，10个N95的，剩下的是医用口罩。
I still have 15 masks, 10 N95, and the rest are medical masks.
今天，我出门采购了一些生活用品和食物，之后我就不用出去了。
Today, I went out shopping for some groceries and food, after which I didn't have to go out.
昨天我看新闻里说酒精可以消毒，今天附近4家药店，酒精和84消毒液已经全部断货了，不知道现在补货了没有。
Yesterday I read in the news that alcohol can be disinfected. Today, four pharmacies, alcohol and disinfectant 84 have all been out of stock.
口罩多跑跑应该还能买得到，就是贵。
Mask more running should still be available, but expensive.
我姐姐在老家买N95口罩，45块钱一个，据说现在好多了。
My sister bought a N95 mask in her hometown, 45 yuan each. It's said it's much better now.
我买的时候15块一个，当时我姐姐还开玩笑，说，你这边才15块钱，买了来我这里卖，就赚大发了。
When I bought it for $15 each, my sister joked. You only had 15 bucks on your end and made a killing by buying it and selling it with me.
看病的时候我遇到一个患者，在求医院让他住院。
When I was seeing a patient, I asked the hospital to hospitalize him.
我在旁边听着，他判断自己得了新型肺炎，原本想去同济医院住院，但同济住满了。
I listened next to him, he judged that he had a new pneumonia, would like to go to Tongji Hospital, but Tongji full.
和医生说话的时候，那个人一直哭，说自己好怕。
When talking to the doctor, the man kept crying and said he was afraid.
后来武汉的朋友给我发了一些视频。
Later, Wuhan friends sent me some video.
一则视频里，医院里人满为患，人人戴着口罩。
In one video, the hospital was crowded with people wearing masks.
另一则视频，一个女人托着一个年长的男人，喊着医生救命，又哭着喊：“我也在发烧啊。
Another video shows a woman holding up an elderly man, shouting for help from a doctor and crying, "I've got a fever, too.
”我心塞了很久，不相信这是假视频，因为我无法想象哪里的医院会是这样的景象。
I couldn't believe it was a fake video because I couldn't imagine where the hospital was going to be like this.
原本，我有机会在封城之前回家去，但我主动留了下来。
Originally, I had the opportunity to go home before the closure of the city, but I volunteered to stay.
家里人都知道我感冒了，想来武汉城里照顾我，也让我拦住了。
The family know I caught a cold, want to Wuhan city to take care of me, also let me stop.
我骗他们说，我很安全，不发烧。
I lied to them that I was safe from the fever.
那天晚上，我一整晚断断续续地做噩梦，我梦到自己要死了，醒来发现才过去半个小时。
That night, I had nightmares intermittently all night. I dreamt that I was going to die and woke up to find that only half an hour had passed.
一个晚上做了无数个噩梦，梦特别长，时间特别慢。
One night I had countless nightmares. Dreams were long and time was slow.
市内交通停运之后，我不知道如果我真病倒了该怎么办，担心到时候叫不到车。
I don't know what to do if I'm really sick after the city traffic has stopped. I'm afraid I won't be able to get a car.
知道有不明原因肺炎，但一开始没太在意口述：马雅武汉市 公司职员讲述时间：1月23日下午我现在网上看官方通报，卫健委的，央视新闻的。
I know of unknown causes of pneumonia, but at first I didn't pay much attention to oral: Mayarwuhan City Company staff about time: January 23 afternoon I now read the official announcement on the Internet, Wei Bojian's, CCTV News.
（疫情）爆出来是12月底，那时大家都很害怕，新闻通报“未发现明显人传人迹象”，同时，宣布抓了8个“造谣”的人。
The outburst came at the end of December, when everyone was frightened, the news bulletin "found no clear signs of human-to-human transmission," and announced the arrest of eight "disinformation" people.
我个人觉得有一点不太好的是，在一开始发通报、辟谣的时候，应该提醒医护人员和民众做好充分准备，引起警惕。
Personally, I think it's not so good to remind medical staff and the public to be fully prepared and alert at the beginning of a debriefing.
我因此放松了警惕。
I relaxed my guard as a result.
当时群里有人发了华南海鲜市场被封锁、消毒的照片，我让她最好撤回，等官方通知，不要造谣传谣。
When someone in the group sent pictures of the South China seafood market blocked and disinfected, I told her to pull back and wait for the official announcement not to rumor.
后来官方出来辟谣后，虽然知道有这个不明原因肺炎的存在，但是就没太在意了。
Later, officials came out to deny rumors, although the existence of this unknown cause of pneumonia is known, but not too much attention.
后面，病例陆续增多，我也还没太在意。
Later, the number of cases has been increasing, I do not care too much.
我觉得很多人是跟着官方在走，官方传达出来的感觉如果显得没那么紧要，大家就放松警惕了。
I think a lot of people are following the official line, and if the official feeling doesn't seem to matter, then everybody's relaxed.
后来，我发现国外出现病例，才真正觉得不对劲……我22号决定退票，23号就封（城）了。
Later, I discovered that there was a case abroad and it really didn't feel right... I decided to refund the ticket on the 22nd and sealed it on the 23rd.
新闻里说疫情的传染性太强、潜伏期长。
The news says the epidemic is too contagious and has a long incubation period.
我的身体有些不舒服，刚好和生理期碰在一起，不知道我的不舒服，是因为生理期，还是我已经染病，怕回家传给家人，所以一个人留在了武汉。
My body is a little uncomfortable, just hit with physiological period, do not know my discomfort, is due to physiological period, or I have been sick, afraid to go home to their families, so a person stayed in Wuhan.
独自在家，每天都很害怕，怕突然出事。
At home alone, every day is very scared, afraid of sudden accident.
也不敢去医院，我还没有明显的症状，去医院风险更大。
I also dare not go to the hospital, I have no obvious symptoms, hospital risk is even greater.
在出租屋，我白天注意给房间通风，外出穿严实保暖、戴好口罩，回来用医用酒精洗手，然后把衣服挂到阳台通风的地方，然后赶紧洗头才算放心。
In the rented rooms, I pay attention to ventilation during the day, go out to wear warm, wear masks, come back to wash hands with medical alcohol, then hang clothes on the balcony ventilation, and then wash their hair quickly.
封城当天，我出去买了点干粮。
On the day of the siege, I went out to buy some dry food.
没有去人多的超市，在一个小商店里买了饼干、面条、调味、酱料，准备在电商上再买点玉米、红薯、牛奶。
No supermarket, in a small shop to buy biscuits, noodles, seasoning, sauce, ready to buy more corn, sweet potatoes, milk.
我不会做饭，蔬菜肉类就不买了，保持基本营养就行。
I can not cook, vegetables and meat do not buy, to maintain basic nutrition.
外卖也是不敢点了，只能先这样。
I'm afraid to order take-out. That's all I can do.
我出去时，大街上的人基本都戴口罩了，除了极个别老年人。
When I went out, most of the people in the street were wearing masks, except for a few elderly people.
很多人在囤货。
A lot of people are stocking up.
药店买口罩的人很多，好些药店已经断货了，消毒液很多也卖空了。
Drug stores buy many masks, many pharmacies have been out of stock, a lot of disinfectant also sold short.
没有买到消毒液，我只带回了十几个口罩和一支温度计。
No disinfectant was available. I only brought back a dozen masks and a thermometer.
我买的东西都没有涨价。
None of my purchases have gone up in price.
温度计8块，我买的那家药店口罩只有稳健医疗的医用护理口罩了，1.5元一个，为了保证每个人都能买到，每人只给买15个。
The thermometer was eight, and the only pharmacy mask I bought was a steady-state medical mask, one for 1.5 yuan, and to make sure everyone could buy it, I gave each one 15.
我们公司除了我，大多同事21号、22号都回家了。
Except me, most of my colleagues come home on the 21st and 22nd.
他们的防范意识都有待提高。
Their awareness of prevention needs to be improved.
我提醒回家的同事做好防护隔离，戴口罩分餐，因为潜伏期确实看不出来，没有人知道自己是不是携带者。
I reminded my colleagues to keep their guard down and wear face masks to share meals, because the incubation period was really not clear and no one knew if they were carriers.
但他们回答我，感染的估计是身体本身有点问题的老年人，儿童青少年很难得这个病。
But they told me that the infection was estimated to be a problem in the body itself of the elderly, children and adolescents very rare disease.
我觉得过于乐观了。
I think it's too optimistic.
凌晨等超市开门采购的上班族口述：曾迩纯武汉市武昌区 出版行业从业者口述时间：1月23日晚2020年1月23日凌晨3点05分，我被朋友的电话叫醒。
At 3: 05 a.m. on January 23, 2020, I was woken up by a friend's telephone at the dictation time of employees in the publishing industry in Wuchang district of Zeng Wuchang City.
她很直白地说，刚刚看到武汉通知23号早上10点会封城的消息，问我有没有看到，就在电话里把防控指挥部的通告念了一遍，还建议我囤点物资。
She said very bluntly, just saw Wuhan notice 23 will be closed at 10 a.m., asked me if I have seen, on the phone to read the command of the control read, and advised me to hoard supplies.
挂掉电话，确认了信息后，我与其他在武汉的朋友联络了一下，决定一早出门采购。
Hang up the phone, confirmed the information, I and other friends in Wuhan contact, decided to go shopping early in the morning.
我住的附近没有24小时便利店。
There's no 24-hour convenience store in my neighborhood.
即使有，便利店也无法满足我个人吃、用的需求。
Convenience stores, even when they do exist, do not satisfy my personal needs for food and drink.
所以我决定干脆早点出发，去大型超市买东西。
So I decided to start early and go shopping at the big supermarkets.
最近几天，武汉的马路上车和人都少，早上更没什么车，一路畅通。
In recent days, Wuhan on the road and fewer people, more no cars in the morning, all the way unimpeded.
我到超市的时候，超市还没开门，不过已经有几位市民到了，大家一起站在门口等。
By the time I got to the supermarket, the supermarket had not opened, but a few citizens had arrived and everyone was standing at the door.
采购大概花了一个小时。
The shopping took about an hour.
不知道是不是去得早的缘故，超市里的东西还很全。
I don't know if it happened early, but everything in the supermarket is still very good.
结账的时候排队，也没有以往我下班来买时那么长。
The checkout was not as long as it used to be when I came home from work.
回家后，我看到网上在传一颗白菜卖好几十块的图，特意去看了一眼我买到的大白菜价签，跟平时没什么区别，只要三块多。
When I got home, I saw a picture of a cabbage selling dozens of pieces on the Internet. I took a look at the price tag I had bought.
不过早上9点多回家后，我就没出去过了，菜价是否发生变化，也说不准。
But after more than 9: 00 a.m. home, I did not go out, whether the price of vegetables has changed, I can not say.
真故读者供图 | 1月23日早9:30，武汉某超市一角我的朋友则在生鲜平台网购，凌晨跟我打完电话后就下了单，当天下午送到的。
At 9: 30 a.m. on January 23, my friend at the corner of a Wuhan supermarket bought on the fresh platform and placed an order with me in the early morning, delivered the same afternoon.
换作平时，平台上班后一两个小时也应该到了。
In other words, an hour or two after the platform goes to work.
武汉现在公共交通停运了，的士也比较少见（还限号），很快网约车也停了。
Wuhan is now closed public transport, taxis are also relatively rare (also limited number), and soon the net car also stopped.
路上的外卖小哥也比平时少了很多。
There are fewer take-out brothers on the road than usual.
封城期间我并不打算出门，宅在家里刚好可以追番补剧、打打游戏，避免添乱。
During the closure of the city I do not intend to go out, the house can just follow the play, play games to avoid confusion.
不过毕竟身在疫情的“重灾区”，我在开始娱乐活动之前，我先忙着打扫卫生、全屋消毒，一天忙下来，游戏差点断签了——开个玩笑。
After all, I was in the "disaster area" of the epidemic, before I started entertaining activities, I was busy cleaning, disinfecting the house, a busy day, the game almost stopped - just a joke.
前几天我看新闻的时候，刷到目前的疫情地图。
The other day when I was watching the news, I brushed the current epidemic map.
逐渐变红的各个感染区，让我莫名想起手机里的游戏“瘟疫公司（Plague.Inc）”。
The increasingly red-hot areas remind me of Plague Inc., a mobile phone game.
三年没怎么玩，它一直还在我手机里。
I haven't played much in three years. It's still in my cell phone.
身在武汉，又在封城的氛围里，点开这个游戏简直既视感MAX。
In Wuhan, and in the atmosphere of the closure of the city, the opening of this game is simply perceived MAX.
这两天，莫名其妙地，几个特别难的关卡我都打出了很好的分数，大概是因为我本人身在疫区的原因吧（笑），也算是苦中作乐了。
These two days, inexplicably, a few particularly difficult levels I played a good score, presumably because I was in the epidemic area (laughter), but also a bitter joy.
市民们在路边拦车，说只要能出武汉去哪里都行口述：许山武汉市洪山区 出租车司机口述时间：1月23日下午以往武汉是个不夜城。
People stopped by the roadside and said that as long as Wuhan can go anywhere oral: Xu Shan Wuhan City Hongshan Taxi driver dictating time: January 23 afternoon before Wuhan was a city without night.
1月21号晚上，我在大路上开车，8点多就看不到什么人了，我才意识到这次肺炎疫情的严重性。
On the night of January 21, I was driving on the main road, but I couldn't see anyone for more than 8: 00.
一整天，不断有新闻出来，确诊人数不断增加。
Throughout the day, news came out and the number of confirmed cases continued to increase.
1月22号出车，我戴了口罩，同时带了一瓶84消毒液。
On January 22nd, I was wearing a mask and carrying a bottle of disinfectant 84.
每载一名乘客，我都要消毒一次，门把手、坐垫等乘客能碰到的地方，我都喷上消毒水，然后擦一遍。
Every time I carry a passenger, I disinfect it once. I spray disinfectant on the door knobs, cushions and other places that passengers can touch.
那天下午6点多，我送一个朋友去外地时，武汉市内车辆已经比较少了。
At 6: 00 that afternoon, when I sent a friend out of the city, there were fewer vehicles in Wuhan.
我在司机群里看到，市内的出租车司机差不多8点钟就收班了。
I saw among the drivers that the city's taxi drivers stopped at about eight o'clock.
送完朋友回城的路上，我被拦下来，工作人员用电子体温计测了体温，没问题才让我通行。
After sending my friend back to the city, I was stopped and the staff took my temperature with an electronic thermometer. It was all right for me to pass.
到1月23号早上6点54分，我收到了客管处的短信，通知我们10点后实施交通管制，全市公共交通暂停运营，因此我们出租车将成为市里出行的重要交通方式。
By 6: 54 a.m. on January 23, I had received a text message from the Customer Service informing us that traffic control would be enforced after 10: 00 and that the city's public transportation would be suspended, so that our taxis would become an important mode of transportation in the city.
短信里呼吁我们遵守职业和社会道德，不要拒载、绕道、借机讹财。
The text calls on us to abide by professional and social ethics, do not refuse to load, detour, seize the opportunity to blackmail money.
那之后，我出门送我的对班司机回汉口，发现路上的交通工具只剩下出租车和少数网约车了。
After that, I went out to give my shift driver back to Hankou, found that the only means of transport left are taxis and a few netters.
送他的时候，路过了华南海鲜市场，那边早就封了起来，现在已经变成了无人区。
Send him, passing through the South China seafood market, there has long been sealed up, now has become no man's land.
送完同事，回到武昌大概10点半左右。
Send my colleague back to Wuchang about 10: 30.
路过武昌火车站的时候，我看到那里一片寂静，隐约看见有医务人员在火车站里，估计是为了应对突发情况。
As I passed Wuchang railway station, I saw the silence there. I could see some medical staff in the railway station, presumably in response to the emergency.
路边行人比头一天多，许多推着行李箱的人，戴着口罩在等车。
There were more roadside pedestrians than the day before, and many people with suitcases, wearing masks, were waiting for the bus.
受访者供图 | 路边等车的武汉市民这些人都想出城，我听到他们拦车时说，只要能出武汉就行，随便去哪里，开的价钱也高。
Wuhan residents who waited by the roadside for a ride wanted to get out of the city. I heard them stop and say that as long as they could get out of Wuhan, prices were as high as they could.
我下车，把当时的场景拍成了一段小视频，发到了家庭群里，然后就走了。
I got out of the car, made a short video of the scene, sent it to the family, and then left.
实际上，出去的人，在高速上都会被拦下来测体温、往衣服上喷消毒水，体温正常的人才能出去。
In fact, people who go out on the highway are stopped to take a temperature check, spray disinfectant on their clothes, and only those with normal body temperature can go out.
今天（23号）还在出车的人，大多数是觉得今年生意不景气，想冒险赚点钱。
Most of those still out on the road today (23rd) feel that business is bad this year and want to take a chance on making some money.
另一方面，公共交通都没有了，大家也是想贡献一份力。
On the other hand, public transportation is gone and everyone wants to contribute.
只要不是去医院的乘客，司机们都很乐意载。
Drivers are happy to pick up passengers who are not going to the hospital.
看到手里提着医院袋子的人，大家会害怕，防护措施再好，也怕有个万一。
Seeing the man with the hospital bag in his hand, people will be afraid, no matter how good the protective measures, also afraid of a contingency.
去医院的人也知道司机们害怕，为了打上车，他们有的人会挡在车子前面，恨不得趴上去。
The people who went to the hospital knew that the drivers were afraid and that some of them would stay in front of the car in order to get on the bus.
这样的乘客，往往自己已经做了到位的防护，都戴着口罩，我们载着他们去医院，唯独能做的只是戴口罩、消毒、不收现金、少交流。
Such passengers, who are often protected in place and wearing masks, are taken to the hospital, where all we can do is wear masks, disinfect, receive no cash and have little communication.
我想起1月21号白天，我载过一个乘客去武汉中心医院，那时候还一切正常。
I remember taking a passenger to Wuhan Central Hospital during the day on January 21st and everything was fine.
医院门口还有出租车在等着载人——现在都没有了。
There were taxis waiting in front of the hospital - none of them now.
这两天，我回家后第一件事是换衣服、洗澡，家里有小孩，即使我出事，也不能传染给孩子。
The first thing I do when I go home these two days is to change my clothes, take a shower, have kids at home, and even if I have an accident, I can't infect them.
从今天开始我不打算出门了，该过年了。
I'm not going to go out from today. It's time for New Year.
今年武汉过年，亲戚之间不走动了，不拜年就是这个春节的特色。
This year Wuhan Spring Festival, relatives do not walk between, do not visit the New Year is the characteristics of this Spring Festival.
一线医护人员缺少防护服口述：黄卓武汉同济医院 医生口述时间：1月23日晚有关试剂盒供不应求的问题，我了解到的是，包括捷诺、辉睿在内的试剂商，已经生产了数万份试剂盒。
Lack of protective clothing for frontline medical personnel Oral time by doctors at Tongji Hospital, Huang Zhuo On the night of January 23, regarding the shortage of kits, I understand that reagent manufacturers, including Teno and Duo Rui, have produced tens of thousands of kits.
试剂盒下发了，却没有用起来，中间有多少环节出问题不得而知。
The kit was issued, but it was not used, and it is not known how many links went wrong.
我院检验科也很着急，想给病人做却做不了。
My hospital inspection department is also very anxious, want to do for the patient but can not do.
我们今天最后一天班，但之后都得待命，有需求随时到岗。
We'll be on duty on the last day of the day, but we'll be on call after that.
非特殊时期我们科室主要负责手术病人诊断、指导、预后，所以，本次肺炎我们原本不算一线科室，其实帮不上什么忙。
Our department is mainly responsible for surgical diagnosis, guidance, prognosis, so, this pneumonia we were not a first-line department, in fact, can not help.
只不过，这次波及面太广，基本医院所有科室都受影响——第一，每个科室都有前台接待病人，有感染的风险；第二，我们科不少人员的家属都在临床一线上，一线人员不少因疑似感染隔离，他们也就有被感染的风险。
First, every department has a front desk to receive patients and is at risk of infection. Second, many of our family members are on the clinical front line and many frontline staff are isolated by suspected infections, and they are at risk of infection.
我有一位同事，她丈夫在协和医院一线，所以为了科室其他人的安危，对她进行了调岗隔离观察。
I have a colleague, her husband in the Concorde Hospital front line, so for the safety of the rest of the department, she was transferred to quarantine observation.
好在目前已经确定没事了，她没有感染肺炎。
Luckily, she's sure it's all right now. She's not infected with pneumonia.
我们肯定会担忧，但是大家依然要把手上的临床工作做完，这个时候作为医护人员，使命感很强。
We're certainly worried, but we still have to get the clinical work done, and this is the time for a strong sense of mission on the part of the medical staff.
我们医院很早就有新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的病例（官方说是12月27日）。
The new coronavirus pneumonia has been reported in our hospital for a long time (the official date is December 27).
当时，因为查不出来原因，我们高度怀疑是非典，开始响应防护措施。
At the time, we became highly suspicious of SARS and began to respond to protective measures because we could not find the cause.
后来，有相同症状的人越来越多，12月底专家组下来调查，那时候我们医护已经很担心会越来越严重。
Later, more and more people with the same symptoms came down to investigate at the end of December, when our health care was already worried about getting worse.
我们多次试着在朋友圈呼吁提高防范，但是，不是圈内人真的毫无防范意识，觉得我们大惊小怪，还是该干嘛干嘛，这点让我觉得很悲哀。
We've tried many times in our circle of friends to call for more precautions, but it's not that insiders really don't have a sense of precaution, think we're making a fuss, or do something.
加上前期卫健委说未发现人传人、持续传染力低的官方说法，大家更不以为然了。
Coupled with the early health care committee said that no human-to-human transmission, continued low transmission of the official statement, everyone is even more disapproving.
1月初就已经很严重了，早期具体收了多少病人不太清楚。
Early in January was already serious, and it was not clear how many patients had received early.
呼吸内科有4层楼，大概300个床位。
The Department of Respiratory Medicine has four floors and about 300 beds.
我估计在一周前床位开始紧缺，人手也紧缺。
I estimate that a week ago there was a shortage of beds and a shortage of staff.
医院的新内科楼建成后，原本的老内科楼腾空开始装修。
After the completion of the new internal medicine building, the old internal medicine building was vacated and renovated.
因为床位不够，这次直接划了一层楼给感染科用，大概可以增加100个床位，但还是不够。
Because of the shortage of beds, this time a floor was rowed directly to the infection section, which would have added about 100 beds, but that was not enough.
据我所知，有的医院连皮肤科和内分泌科病房都被征用当发热患者病房了，有的医院原本只有2个呼吸病区，2周内扩充到了6个病区。
To the best of my knowledge, some hospitals even have dermatology and endocrinology wards are requisitioned as wards for febrile patients.
科室里弥漫消毒水的味道，因为我们每天用1：100的84消毒液熏蒸。
The smell of disinfectant pervaded the department, as we fumigated with 1: 100 disinfectant every day.
正常来说，不直接接触病人的二线人员只需戴口罩，但发热门诊、出勤救护车，病房工作人员必须穿防护服。
Normally, the second-line personnel who do not come into direct contact with the patient need only wear masks, but fever clinics, ambulance attendance, ward staff must wear protective clothing.
目前的状况是，防护服数量有限，又是一次性的，条件不允许人人都穿戴。
The current situation is that protective clothing is limited in number and one-time in nature, and conditions do not allow everyone to wear them.
据我所知，到目前为止，我们医院和其他医院都由于防护服紧缺，有部分一线医护人员穿不上防护服。
So far as I know, our hospital and other hospitals are short of protective clothing, some of the front-line medical personnel can not wear protective clothing.
我们在科室必须戴口罩，但大概从1月21日开始，为了保证一线物资需求，口罩优先供给发热门诊和病房。
We had to wear masks in the department, but from about January 21 onwards, to ensure the first-line needs, masks were given priority in the heating clinic and ward.
其他科室，医院每人每天限量2个普通外科口罩。
Other departments, hospitals limit the daily limit of 2 general surgical masks.
我们自己之前买了N95，现在已经买不到了。
We bought the N95 ourselves, but we can't buy it now.
这几天，我看到好多医院都在请求社会支援，市儿童，一医院，二医院，省中医，中南，协和等等。
These days, I see many hospitals are asking for social support, city children, a hospital, two hospitals, provincial Chinese medicine, central and southern, Concorde and so on.
最让人生气的是，现在网上还有骗子用自己手机号码冒充医院骗资助。
The most irritating thing is that there are now cheats using their mobile phone number to impersonate a hospital to defraud funding.
目前，我院也已经开始向社会求助，希望能够得到社会的物资援助。
At present, our hospital has also begun to ask the community for help, hope to be able to get material assistance from the community.
“封城”首日下午，口罩脱销口述：悟一武汉市洪山区 外卖员口述时间：1月24日上午1月23号凌晨2点多，我刷微博看到武汉封城的消息，第一反应是：完了，忘了买点吃的喝的放家里了。
On the first afternoon, the mask was off the market and told me that I had forgotten to buy something to eat and drink and put it at home when I saw the news that Wuhan had been closed.
后来又觉得，各级政府领导应该会考虑到这个问题，我就没有太担心。
Later, I felt that leaders at all levels of government should take this into account, and I wasn't too worried.
那一天，我送了十几单，绝大部分订单都跟防护用品有关，口罩、洗手液，还有一部分是粮油、零食、方便面。
On that day, I sent more than a dozen orders, mostly related to protective equipment, masks, hand sanitizers, as well as some grain and oil, snacks and instant noodles.
11点多，我去洪山区徐东一路一个菜市场取货时，发现菜市场里很多菜贩子都打烊了，菜已经卖完了，卖肉的档口都还剩很多。
More than 11 o'clock, I went to Hunshan Xu Dong all the way to a vegetable market to pick up goods, found that a lot of vegetable traders in the Halles closed up, vegetables have been sold out, there are still a lot of butcher's mouth.
下午3点半多，我去取货时，越来越多商家告诉我们，没有口罩（指可阻隔病毒的医用外科口罩和N95）卖了。
At 3: 30 p. m., when I went to pick up the goods, more and more vendors told us that there were no masks (referring to medical surgical masks and N95 that could block the virus) sold.
有一个人下单了口罩，我取货时，发现取的是无纺布的口罩和棉口罩，我告诉店主，戴这种口罩没有用，店主说她不知道，一个劲谢谢我，说要想办法进点好口罩卖。
One man ordered a mask, and when I picked it up, I found it was a non-woven mask and a cotton mask. I told the shopkeeper it was useless. The shopkeeper said she didn't know.
受访者供图 | 当日订单截图昨天，送到医院的订单还是会有人派送。
A copy of the day's order was sent to the hospital yesterday.
起初没人接单，但这个单子会继续挂在app上，平台或商家会往里加打赏，配送费高到一定程度，就会有人愿意送。
At first no one will take the order, but the list will continue to hang on the app, and the platform or merchant will reward Riga with a price high enough that someone will want to send it.
不过，骑手之间也会沟通，尽量不送往门诊输液处，大家都知道现在门诊处情况混乱。
However, riders also communicate with each other and try not to send them to the outpatient infusion unit, which is known to be in disarray.
下午2、3点钟，我在送餐路上发现附近两个商场关闭，打开外卖软件，常吃的煲仔饭也打烊了，我这才开始担心，意识到晚上没饭吃了，就去买了些方便面，但没有额外储备吃的。
At 2 or 3 pm, on the way to the food delivery, I found two nearby shopping malls closed, opened the take-out software and closed up my favorite souvenirs. I began to worry. I realized that I didn't have time to eat at night, so I went to buy some instant noodles without extra reserves.
我在家附近问了一圈便利店、水果摊、小型连锁超市，他们说会坚持开门。
I asked around the house about convenience stores, fruit stands, and small supermarket chains, who said they would keep the door open.
今天早上出门时，发现确实也都开门了，我感觉自己不用担心没有吃的。
When I went out this morning, I found it was open, and I didn't have to worry about not eating.
我送餐的地方在武汉是相对繁华的区域，平时道路非常堵。
The place where I deliver meals in Wuhan is a relatively prosperous area, usually very blocked roads.
昨天，路上没有公交车，私家车都在加油，其他地方道路都很顺畅，只有加油站那个路口堵车。
Yesterday, there was no bus on the road, private cars were refueling, other places are very smooth roads, only the gas station intersection traffic jam.
街上的行人很少，年轻人九成都会戴口罩，一些上了年纪的人大多没有戴口罩。
There are few pedestrians on the streets, 90% of young people wear masks, and many elderly people do not wear masks.
有一些顾客比较谨慎，送东西给他的时候，他们会离得远一些，或者是门开一条小缝，把东西拿进去。
Some of the customers are more cautious, when the delivery of things to him, they will be further away, or a small opening in the door to take things in.
22号凌晨，隔壁社区发现了肺炎患者，来了警车和医护人员。
In the early morning of the 22nd, pneumonia patients were found in the neighborhood next door, and police cars and paramedics arrived.
听说之后，我开始有些后怕，因为我负责送餐的区域有四家医院，1月份以来，我陆续送过这几家医院的单子，近期我也还在往医院送餐。
When I heard about this, I began to get a little scared, because there were four hospitals in the area where I was delivering food. Since January, I have been delivering lists of these hospitals, and I have been delivering food to the hospital in the near future.
现在想想，1月中旬开始，我去送医院的订单时，感觉在门诊打吊瓶的、候诊的人已经越来越多了，病人们大多戴着口罩。
Now, starting in mid-January, when I went to the hospital to take orders, I felt that the number of people waiting for treatment at the clinic was increasing and that patients were mostly wearing masks.
医院本身好像没有什么防护措施，当时好多医生都没戴口罩。
The hospital itself seemed to be unprotected, and many doctors were not wearing masks at the time.
当时我以为是流感季，发烧的人多。
I thought it was the flu season and there were a lot of fevers.
1月21号之后，我才戴上口罩进行防护，因为那时，新闻报道中疫情开始变得严重。
I didn't put on a mask until after January 21, when the news coverage began to get worse.
以前根本不觉得严重，也没有人告诉我们要重视。
It was never serious before, and no one told us to take it seriously.
1月22号开始，外卖平台开始反复提醒我们要戴口罩、洗手、注意个人卫生、给餐箱消毒。
Starting on January 22, the takeaway platform began repeatedly reminding us to wear masks, wash hands, observe good personal hygiene and disinfect food containers.
随之而来，买口罩的人也越来越多，派送的订单里也有很多都是口罩、防护用品，我们才开始重视起来。
As a result, more and more people are buying masks, and many of the orders we send are masks and protective equipment, we began to pay attention to.
同一天，我送餐时看到一些小区里，清洁人员正在对电梯进行消毒，一些小区不让外卖员进，有些小区会在门口设置红外测温装置，出入小区的人要举手进行体温测试。
On the same day, when I delivered food, I saw a number of neighborhoods where cleaners were disinfecting elevators, some neighborhoods where take-out workers were not allowed in, some neighborhoods where infrared thermometers were set up and people going in and out of the neighborhood raised their hands to take a temperature test.
我老家是鄂西北的，今年春节，因为有事要处理，我没打算回家。
My hometown is the northwest of Hubei, Spring Festival this year, because of the need to deal with, I did not plan to go home.
看到封城消息后，第一时间担心同在武汉工作的弟弟能不能回家。
After seeing the news, the first time worried about the same brother working in Wuhan can go home.
接着，我想到这个城市的未来，我们还能做工作吗？毕竟从来没遇到过这种情况。
Then I thought about the future of the city. Can we do anything else? After all, it has never happened before.
今天是大年三十，武汉下着雨，我没去送餐。
Today is New Year's Day, Wuhan is raining, I did not send food.
下楼去买罐装粥的时候，因为没戴口罩，我还被人嫌弃了。
When I went downstairs to buy canned porridge, I was repulsed for not wearing a mask.
便利店老板强行送我一个棉口罩让我戴上，其实这种口罩基本没什么用，但戴上后挺暖和。
Convenience store owner forced me to wear a cotton mask, but it was almost useless, but it was warm after wearing it.
明天我会戴上口罩，手套，准备好给自己、电动车和餐盒消毒的湿纸巾以及酒精，接着工作。
Tomorrow I'll put on a mask, gloves, wet wipes to disinfect myself, electric cars and lunch boxes, and alcohol, and get back to work.
*为保护受访者隐私，文中部分为化名。
* In order to protect the privacy of interviewees, the text is partly pseudonym.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------撰文 | 温丽虹成琨 崔玉敏版式|曾杏提示：如果你身在疫区，有故事想讲、有信息需要向外界传递，欢迎在真故评论区留言。
I Am I I Am I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后，武汉人在经历什么。
After sealing the city, Wuhan people are experiencing what.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封城后，武汉人在经历什么";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "有人害怕，有人还要赚钱养家。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Some people are afraid that someone has to earn money to support their families.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
