疫情神药，何时见效？。
Epidemic magic potion, when does it work?
任尚坤。
Ren Shankun.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：任尚坤来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）谣言又来了，辟谣也来了。
Author: Ren Shankun Source: Rumors of business people (ID: biz-leaders) are back, and rumors are coming.
这次是关于一款“神药”。
This time it's about a "miracle drug."
希望“瑞德西韦生效，17-40小时病人好转90%以上。
Hopefully, "Rhetsevir will take effect and patients will improve by more than 90% in 17-40 hours.
”这是美国吉利德公司的在研药物，英文原名remdesivir。
"This is Geely Corporation's research drug, originally known as remdesivir.
它于2月4日运抵中国。
It arrived in China on February 4.
当下，它正在武汉进行临床试验。
It is currently undergoing clinical trials in Wuhan.
试验的入组患者共计761例，其中轻、中症患者308例，重症患者453例。
A total of 761 patients were enrolled in the experiment, 308 of which were light and moderate, 453 were severe.
这些病例被严格执行随机（药物按安慰剂组、全量组、半量组等随机发放）、双盲试验（医生与患者均不知所服是药物还是安慰剂），以评价药物有效性和安全性。
These cases were strictly randomized (drugs were given randomly in placebo, full, half-dose, etc.), double-blind trials (neither the doctor nor the patient knew whether the drug was a drug or a placebo) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the drug.
结果未出。
The results are not available.
社交媒体上已开始流传药物见效的消息。
Social media have begun to spread the message that drugs are working.
2月6日晚，中日友好医院副院长曹彬回应媒体采访时澄清，“临床研究今天才开始，怎么可能知道结果？”他及所在团队主要负责这次临床研究计划。
In response to a media interview, Cao Bin, vice-president of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, clarified on the night of Feb. 6 that "clinical research is only beginning today, how can we possibly know the results?"
他强调，科学研究需要时间。
He stressed that scientific research takes time.
这算是一次官宣辟谣。
It was an official disclaimer.
当晚，腾讯新闻团队也从接近临床试验人员处得到些消息，称瑞德西韦试验的第一例患者从重症到恢复，用时不到24小时。
That evening, Tencent's news team also received information from people close to clinical trials that the first case of the Rhetsevier trial took less than 24 hours to recover from severe illness.
不过，其在文章中也表示，与美国宣布用该药治愈的的患者一样，目前均为孤例，没有对照试验和足够临床样本，不能证明是“特效药”起了作用。
However, it also said that, like patients in the United States who had announced a cure for the drug, there were no controlled trials or sufficient clinical samples to prove that the "specific drugs" were working.
此前1月31日，权威医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）发表论文，介绍了美国首例确诊病例的诊疗过程，提及患者在服用瑞德西韦进行试验性治疗后，病情出现迅速缓解，体温从39.4降到37.3摄氏度。
Earlier, on January 31, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), a leading medical journal, published a paper describing the diagnosis and treatment of the first confirmed case in the United States, referring to a rapid remission of the patient's temperature from 39.4 to 37.3 degrees Celsius after Rhetsevir.
血氧水平从94%至96%。
Blood oxygen levels ranged from 94% to 96%.
但值得注意的是，该研究并未提供前后的外周血病毒载量数据变化，也没有症状减轻与药物有直接关系的严密论证，且患者第12天鼻腔试纸病毒检测结果仍呈阳性，尚不符合国家颁行的治愈标准。
It is worth noting, however, that the study did not provide changes in peripheral blood virus load data before and after treatment, nor was there a rigorous demonstration that symptom reduction was directly related to the drug, and the patient tested positive for 12-day rhinovirus, which does not meet the national standard for treatment.
目前无疫苗，无特效药。
There is no vaccine, no specific drug.
它仍是一抹曙光。
It is still a glimmer of light.
截至2月6日24时，新型冠状病毒累计报告确诊病例已超3万，疑似病例2.6万余人。
As of 2400 hours on February 6, more than 30,000 cases and 26,000 suspected cases of coronavirus have been confirmed.
“清华AI团队”的动力学模型预测，全国感染人数将在2月12-19日内达到峰值，2月16日前后出现疫情拐点，累积确诊人数最高值为4.2万-6万。
The dynamics model for the Tsinghua AI team predicts a nationwide peak in infections between February 12 and 19 and an inflection point around February 16, with a cumulative maximum of 42,000 to 60,000 cases.
2月5日晚，中国工程院院士、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰接受白岩松采访时讲，根据前期结果，他们对瑞德西韦抱有较大希望，当然，最终疗效还要临床观察。
In an interview with Bai Yansong on the evening of February 5, Wang Chen, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine, said they had high hopes for Rhetsevier based on previous results.
此前，中日友好医院曾对外表示，该项临床研究技术的结束时间为4月27日。
Earlier, the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital has said that the clinical research technology is the end of April 27.
程序依国际通例，一款新药在公开上市前，要经过动物实验，以及在“人体”进行一期、二期、三期临床实验四道流程。
According to international practice, a new drug is tested on animals before it goes on the market, as well as in the first, second and third phases of clinical trials.
前两步验证安全性，后两步验证疗效。
The first two steps verify the safety, and the second two verify the efficacy.
落地中国，瑞德西韦跳过了一二期临床试验，直接进入了三期。
Landing in China, Rhetsevier skipped phase one or two of the clinical trials and went straight to phase three.
这款原本为治疗埃博拉病毒研制的药物，此前在体外和动物模型中显示出对非典型性肺炎（SARS）和中东呼吸综合征（MERS）均有抑制作用。
The drug, originally developed to treat the Ebola virus, had previously shown inhibitory effects on SARS and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in vitro and in animal models.
我国学者也在研究中发现，瑞德西韦在细胞水平上对2019新型冠状病毒也有较好的抗病毒活性。
Chinese scholars have also found that Rhetsevir has good antiviral activity to 2019 coronavirus at the cellular level.
国药监局新药评审委员刘玉玲曾公开提到，若要按正常审批流程，一款新药至少要半年时间。
Liu Yuling, a New Drug Adjudication Board member at the China National Drug Administration, has publicly mentioned that a new drug takes at least half a year to follow the normal approval process.
“在抗击疫情的非常时期，如果国药监局特事特办加速审批，瑞德西韦也许在国内只进行二三百例临床试验，最快一两月就有望获得进口批文。
"In an extraordinary period of fighting the epidemic, Rhetsevir may be able to conduct only two or three hundred clinical trials in the country, with import approvals expected as soon as a couple of months," he said.
”对新药与疫苗，尽管公众都呈现出极为迫切的情绪，但药物开发的规律和标准无法逾越。
For new drugs and vaccines, the laws and standards of drug development cannot be surmounted, despite the overwhelming public sentiment.
钟南山院士则明确表示，临床试验可以加快绿色通道，但必须走程序，“很多实验室找到一个苗头，就希望马上完全进入临床，这要小心，伦理审查一定要通过。
Academics in Zhong Nan Shan have made it clear that clinical trials can speed up the green passage, but must go through the procedure. "Many laboratories find a start and want to get fully clinical right away, careful, and ethical review must be done."
临床医生还是要按临床的规矩来做”。
The clinician still has to follow the rules of clinical practice.
2003年非典时期，我国出台《突发公共卫生事件应对条例》并在后来通过了《突发事件应对法》。
During the SARS period in 2003, China issued the Regulations on Handling Public Health Emergencies and later adopted the Emergency Response Law.
2005年，《国家食品药品监督管理局特别审批程序》公布施行，对突发公共卫生事件在药品审批管理环节予以明确规定，要求按照“标准不降低，程序不减少”原则完成药物药理毒理研究和三期临床试验。
In 2005, the State Food and Drug Administration promulgated and put into effect the Procedures for Special Examination and Approval of the State Food and Drug Administration, which clearly stipulates the procedures for the examination and approval of public health emergencies, and requires that pharmacological toxicological studies and clinical trials be completed in accordance with the principle of "no reduction in standards and no reduction in procedure."
截至目前，我国并未形成类似其他国家的“同情用药”机制。
Up to now, China has not formed similar to other countries "sympathy medication" mechanism.
2019年12月1日，新修订的《药品管理法》被视作我国原则性确立“同情用药”制度的法律基础。
On December 1, 2019, the newly revised Drug Administration Law was regarded as the legal basis for establishing the "compassionate drug" system in principle in China.
其第23条规定：对治疗严重危及生命且尚无有效治疗手段的疾病以及公共卫生方面急需的药物，中期临床试验已有数据显示疗效并能预测其临床价值的，可以附条件批准，并在药品注册证书中载明相关事项。
Article 23 of the Act stipulates that the treatment of seriously life-threatening diseases for which no effective means of treatment are available, as well as urgently needed medicines for public health, may be approved with conditions if data are available from the mid-term clinical trials indicating their clinical value, and relevant matters may be specified in the drug registration certificate.
只是，还没有出台与之配套的实施办法供落地执行。
However, it has not been accompanied by the implementation of measures for on-the-ground implementation.
有媒体分析认为，在当今疫情形势严峻的情况下，也只能寄希望于有特事特办的可能。
Some media analysis said that in today's severe epidemic situation, also can only hope that there is the possibility of special operations.
专利就在该药顺利抵达中国当天，2月4日晚，武汉病毒研究所官方刊文称，“对在我国尚未上市，且具有知识产权壁垒的药物瑞德西韦，我们依据国际惯例，从保护国家利益的角度出发，在1月21日申报了中国发明专利（抗2019新型冠状病毒的用途），并将通过PCT（专利合作协定）途径进入全球主要国家。
"In accordance with international practice, Rhetorhevir, the drug with intellectual property rights barrier, declared China's patent for invention (anti-2019 new coronavirus) on January 21 and will enter major countries through the PCT," Wuhan virus research institute said in the evening of Feb. 4.
”一时间，“瑞德西韦”被武汉病毒研究所“抢注发明专利”的短消息广泛传播。
"For a time," Rhetsevier "was Wuhan virus research institute" preempt patent for invention "short message widely spread.
就专利争议问题，中伦律师事务所产权律师程芳回应“商业人物”称，同一药品能同时存在多个专利，武汉病毒研究所可以申请专利，从结果看，其所申请的是瑞德西韦化合物的用途专利，属二级专利。
In response to a patent dispute, Cheng Fang, a property rights lawyer at the Chinese law firm Zhonglun, said the same drug could be patented at the same time and Wuhan virus research institute could patent it.
业内，化学药物常被分为一级专利和二级专利，前者通常指保护药物化合物的专利，后者则指围绕药物化合物衍生出来的一系列专利，包括药物组合物、制药用途、制备方法、晶形结构等。
In the industry, chemicals are often divided into first-class patents, which usually refer to patents protecting pharmaceutical compounds, and second-class patents, which refer to a range of patents derived from pharmaceutical compounds, including pharmaceutical compositions, pharmaceutical uses, preparation methods, crystal structures, etc.
针对专利一事，吉利德CEO丹尼尔·奥戴（Daniel O‘Day）表示，当下首要任务是找到瑞德西韦正确的临床试验项目，提高产能，不会卷入专利之争，患者是第一位的。
In response to the patent, Geely CEO Daniel O'Day said that the immediate priority was to find the right clinical trials in Rhetsevier to increase capacity and not get involved in patent disputes, with patients first.
2019年3月1日，奥戴从罗氏制药掌门人的位子转任吉利德董事会主席兼CEO。
On March 1, 2019, he was transferred from the position of chairman and CEO of Roche Pharma to chairman and CEO of Geely's board.
彼时，吉利德的营收已连续三年下滑，股价也从巅峰期的130美元/股跌到63美元/股。
At the time, Geely's revenue had fallen for three years in a row, and its stock price fell to $63 a share from $130 at its peak.
奥戴承担着变革与转型的重任，高层换血是他在2019年的关键动作。
Oday bears the burden of change and transformation, and high-level blood transfusion is his key action in 2019.
美东时间2月4日，吉利德2019年业绩显示，公司全年总收入224.9亿美元，同比增长1.5%，其中艾滋病产品收入164.38亿美元，同比增12%，占公司总收入73.32%；丙肝药业务持续萎缩，收29.36亿美元，同比下滑20%。
On February 4, 2019 results showed the company's total annual revenue was $22.49 billion, up 1.5% from a year earlier, including $16.438 billion in income from AIDS products, up 12% from a year earlier and accounting for 73.32% of the company's total revenue.
当下，吉利德也正得益于中国市场进一步扩张。
Right now, Geely is benefiting from the further expansion of the Chinese market.
随着乙肝药物Vemlidy在中国获批，吉利德实现52%的增长。
With the hepatitis B drug Vemlidy approved in China, Geely achieved a 52 percent increase.
公司预计，随着对美国市场的渗透和中国市场的拉动，Vemlidy在2022年可以实现10亿美元收入。
The company expects Vemlidy to generate $1 billion in revenue in 2022, driven by penetration of the U.S. market and the Chinese market.
自2017年以来，吉利德已先后有8款药物获得中国国药监局批准，4款新药进入了国家医保目录。
Since 2017, Geely has had eight drugs approved by China's State Administration of Pharmacy and four new drugs entered the national health-care catalogue.
作为全球最具创新能力的生物制药公司，吉利德目前研发总额为250.2亿美元，回报达1750亿美元，且不算在研产品的价值。
As the world's most innovative biopharmaceutical company, Geely currently has $25.02 billion in research and development with a return of $175 billion, not counting the value of its research products.
2018年，吉利德有60%的收入源自新药。
In 2018, 60% of Geely's income came from new drugs.
过往历史中，吉利德的新药往往会在两三年里成为一颗颗“重磅炸弹”。
Over the course of history, Gilead's new drugs have tended to become "bombshells" within two or three years.
拐点跻身全球药企前十，吉利德公司用了不到30年时间。
The inflection point ranks among the top 10 pharmaceutical companies in the world, and Geely took less than 30 years.
它成立于1987年，总部在美国加州福斯特城，曾因创新能力被誉为“制药界的苹果公司”。
Founded in 1987 and headquartered in Forster, Calif., it was once hailed as "Apple in the pharmaceutical world" for its innovative capabilities.
全球11000员工中，研发人员有6000人左右，占比近55%，市场销售人员不到3000人。
Research and development workers account for nearly 55 per cent of the world's 11,000 employees, with a market sales force of less than 3,000.
创始人迈克尔·瑞沃丹（Michael L Riordan）分别在华盛顿大学、约翰霍普金斯大学拿到化学学士和医学博士学位，后来他又赴哈佛商学院攻读MBA。
Michael L. Riordan, founder of the University of Washington and Johns Hopkins University, received his bachelor's degree in chemistry and doctorate in medicine, and later went to Harvard Business School to pursue an MBA.
毕业后，瑞沃丹进入门罗风险投资公司（Menlo Ventures）。
After graduation, Mr. Rivodin entered Menlo Ventures.
1987年，29岁的瑞沃丹辞职，创办吉利德。
In 1987, the 29-year-old resigned and founded Geely.
5年时间，吉利德没收入也没盈利，它全凭瑞沃丹的融资战绩。
For five years, Geely had no income and no profit. It was all about Reverordan's record of financing.
1988年200万美元；1989年1000万美元；1991年4000万美元；1992年纳斯达克上市融资8600万美元；1995年通过股市获9400万美元；1996年，吉利德总算有了首款药品 Vistide，靠这款新药吉利德再从股市募集了近2.5亿美元。
In 1988, $2 million; in 1989, $10 million; in 1991, $40 million; in 1992, Nasdaq raised $86 million; in 1995, through the stock market, $94 million; and in 1996, Geely finally had its first drug, Vistide, which raised nearly $250 million from the stock market.
资本和上市是吉利德公司的第一个拐点。
Capital and listing was Geely's first turning point.
1997年，瑞沃丹引入约翰·马汀（JohnMartin）接任CEO的位置。
In 1997, John Martin was introduced to Rivoten to take over as CEO.
再之后，吉利德公司展开近10次大手笔并购，完成了在艾滋病、乙肝、丙肝等医药领域布局。
Since then, Geely has launched nearly 10 major mergers and acquisitions, in the AIDS, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and other medical areas layout.
事实证明，所收购项目在后来也基本成了“摇钱树”。
Facts prove that the acquisition of the project in the future has also become a "cash cow."
当初公司成立时，吉利德曾和葛兰素史克公司签署协议，为后者开发治疗遗传疾病的“反义”药。
When the company was founded, Geely signed a deal with GlaxoSmithKline to develop "antisense" drugs for genetic diseases.
1998年，吉利德终止了与葛兰素的合作，同时把“反义”药的知识产权和肿瘤业务分别卖给了另两家医药公司，然后专注抗病毒药物研发。
In 1998, Geely ended its partnership with Glaxo, selling intellectual property rights to antisense drugs and oncology to two other pharmaceutical companies, then focusing on antiviral drug development.
这是吉利德的第二个拐点——明确战略布局与核心业务，自此成为专攻艾滋病、乙型肝炎、丙型肝炎和各类传染病药物的公司。
This is Geely's second inflection point - clear strategic layout and core business, since then specializing in AIDS, hepatitis B, hepatitis C and various infectious disease drugs companies.
过去数十年间，吉利德销售收入翻了上千倍，包括丙肝药 “索菲布韦”、艾滋药“必妥维”和公众熟知的抗流感药奥司他韦（达菲）在内，吉利德多次改写了人类重大疾病的治疗历程。
Over the past few decades, Geely's sales have multiplied by a factor of a thousand, including the hepatitis C drug "Sofibvé," the AIDS drug "Pittovir," and the well-known anti-flu drug oseltamivir (Tamiflu), which has repeatedly rewritten the course of treating major human diseases.
但近年它也正面临危机。
But it is also facing a crisis in recent years.
曾经的第一功臣丙肝药业务急速缩水，HIV药遭遇巨头强势追击，股价跌跌不休。
Once the first official hepatitis C business shrunk, HIV drugs encountered a strong giant chase, share prices continued to fall.
其巨资投入的抗埃博拉病毒药物“瑞德西韦”更是没实现预期的临床疗效。
Its massive investment in the anti-Ebola drug "Rhetsevir" has not achieved the expected clinical efficacy.
直到现在，瑞德西韦也未能在全球任何国家获批上市。
Until now, Rhetsevier has not been approved for listing in any country in the world.
“几个幸存或不幸去世的案例，似乎都有一个特别关键的‘恶化’……美国治愈的案例也是在突然恶化的情况下给了药。
"There seems to be a particularly critical 'deterioration' in several cases of surviving or unfortunate death... The case of a cure in the United States was also given in the context of a sudden deterioration.
”结构生物学家颜宁此前在微博上转述一则观点称：到底是药效还是到了转折点，就目前唯一一例，无统计意义，说瑞德西韦对新冠有效确实为时尚早。
Yan Ning, a structural biologist, had previously reported on Weibo that it was too early to say whether the drug was working or at a turning point, and that the only case so far was not statistically significant.
当然，无论民众还是吉利德公司，都在期待着拐点。
Of course, both the public and Geely are looking forward to the inflection point.
*图片购买于视觉中国推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
* Picture purchased in Visual China Recommended Reading Solemn Statement: All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情神药，何时见效？。
Epidemic magic potion, when does it work?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "疫情神药，何时见效？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; When did it work?; & quot;
var msg_desc = "都在期待着拐点。
var msg _ desc = & quot; all looking forward to the inflection point.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '草莓红了，疫情来了',。
strawberry red and AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节',。
AT & P's Atypical Spring Festival in the shadow of pneumonia.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '中国股市，鼠年交易第一天……',。
Rat & rsquo; s first day at the Chinese stock market... & apos;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
