草莓红了，疫情来了。
Strawberries are red. The outbreak is coming.
张霞。
Zhang Xia.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：张霞来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）壹2020年，王明发最后悔的事情是去年砍掉了一亩多地的大樱桃树，建了两个草莓大棚。
Author: Zhang Xia Source: ID: biz-leavers Next 2020, Wang Mingfa most regrets that last year cut off more than an acre of cherry trees and built two strawberry sheds.
大樱桃是山东鲁中一带的“土称呼”，其实就是国产车厘子。
Big cherry is the name of Lu Zhong in Shandong Province, which is actually a local carmaker.
我们村庄种植大樱桃已有十几年历史，最贵的时候，能卖到15、6块钱一斤，一亩地可有两万多块的收入。
Our village has been growing cherries for more than a decade. At its most expensive time, we can sell it for 15 or 6 yuan a catty.
2017、2018，接连两年的清明节期间，鲁中地区遇上了“倒春寒”，把正值开花季的樱桃花苞冻掉了一大半。
2017, 2018, two consecutive years of Ching Ming Festival, Luzhong region encountered "Spring cold," the cherry bud in the flowering season frozen more than half.
等到收成时，樱桃的价格却并没攀升，王明发一年只收入了八千多块。
When the harvest, the price of cherries did not climb, Wang Mingfa a year only income of more than 8,000.
他算了一笔账，刨去肥料、农药、人工等成本，这一年，算是“白干了”。
He calculated an account, gouging the cost of fertilizer, pesticides, labor and so on, this year, was "useless."
没上过几天学的他，说不出“产业升级转型”之类的话，却认清了一个理儿：再种下去，就是死路一条——首先是竞争大，家家户户都种着同一种作物，客源却只几个外地客商，很容易被压价；其次，大樱桃的生产周期长，开花、授粉、落果的过程中经常遭遇意外，说白了，就是“靠天吃饭”。
After a few days of schooling, he could not say "industrial upgrading transformation" or other words, but recognized a logic: if planted again, it would be a dead end - first, competition is high, households grow the same crop, but the source of customers are only a few non-local merchants, easy to underbid; second, the long production cycle of large cherries, flowering, pollination, and fruit-eating.
到附近几个乡镇考察了一圈之后，2019年，王明发毅然决然的把地里的作物换成了前景更好的大棚草莓。
After a tour of several nearby townships, Wang Ming-fa decided in 2019 to replace the crops in the field with more promising strawberries.
草莓生产周期短，产量高，农历八月份种上，三个月左右便能收成。
Strawberry production cycle is short, high production, lunar August planting, about three months to harvest.
冬季乡村的鲜果少，走亲访友、居家待客草莓都是稀罕物。
In winter, there are few fresh fruits in the countryside. Visiting relatives and friends and waiting for strawberries are rare.
按照往年的市场价格，春节期间，一斤草莓能卖到20块钱左右。
According to the usual market price, a catty of strawberries can be sold for about 20 yuan during the Spring Festival.
利润高，投入也就大。
Profits are high and inputs are high.
建温室大棚需要玻璃薄膜和专业PC板，一个需要投入四万多。
Building greenhouses requires a glass film and a professional PC board, one of which requires more than 40, 000 dollars.
为此，王明发到银行贷了三万块钱的款。
To this end, Wang Ming sent a bank loan of 30,000 yuan.
因材料贵，温室大棚造价颇高，一个需四万多元想保证草莓的产量高，得用好的苗木。
Because of the high cost of materials, greenhouse greenhouse, a need for more than 40, 000 want to ensure high production of strawberries, have to use good seedlings.
王明发特地去了一趟省城济南，雇车跑了两百多公里，运回来一万五千来颗上好的苗栽，花掉九千多。
Wang Mingfat went to Jinan, the provincial capital, and hired cars to run more than 200 kilometers, bringing in some 15,000 good seedlings and costing more than 9,000 yuan.
想要草莓的个头大，肥料也很关键，王明发用的是日本技术的“佳垦冲施肥”，一亩地又要三千多。
Want strawberry size, fertilizer is also crucial, Wang Mingfa is using Japanese technology "Jiashan fertilizer," more than 3,000 mu of land.
一亩地草莓的肥料钱大约为三千元左右不负所望的是，草莓果然收成可人，个顶个又红又大。
One acre of strawberries cost about three thousand dollars. To my expectation, strawberries did produce a good harvest, with a big red top.
王明发推算，一株草莓整个周期可生产两斤左右，一万五千颗就是三万斤。
Wang Mingfa calculated that a strawberry cycle can produce about two jin, 15 thousand is 30 thousand catties.
不用两年就能收回成本了。
It won't take two years to recoup the cost.
意外的是，草莓红了，疫情来了。
Surprisingly, strawberry red, the outbreak came.
贰疫情来了，我县各个村庄的的入口处，都设立了值班岗哨，禁止外村人员进入。
Two outbreak came, I county each village entrance, has set up the duty post, forbids the outside village personnel to enter.
王明发的草莓卖不动了。
Wang Ming can't sell his strawberries.
我县自发的“封村”运动算是较晚的，大年初二开始。
I County's spontaneous "Village Sealing" campaign is late, the beginning of the New Year's Day.
最初王明发不以为然，寻思不过“就是个形式”，再怎么着就没个走亲访友的了？等到了大年初三，试着去邻村看舅舅的他意识到了问题的严峻——不仅村口有人值班，从高速公路拐进村子的岔路口还堵上了石头和木材，他不得不提着一箱草莓和两箱牛奶原路返回。
When it was the third year of the Lunar New Year and he was trying to visit his uncle in a neighboring village, he realized the seriousness of the problem - he had to return with a box of strawberries and two cartons of milk.
等到了初四、初五，公路上基本上车辆绝迹，杳无人影了。
Waiting until the fourth, fifth day of the road, basically disappeared from the vehicle, there is no sign of people.
我们村是一个几百口人的大村，每天本村人员或多或少能够来王明发处消费个三五斤。
Our village is a large village with hundreds of people. Every day, people from our village can come to Wang Mingfa to spend three or five jin.
剩下的，他便通过电话和微信，和外村熟人联系。
The rest, he contacted acquaintances in the village by telephone and microphone.
谁若有需求，他骑着电动车送至村口，“交接情报”一样隔着一个岗哨交接货物。
He rides an electric car to the entrance of the village, handing over goods from one post to another like "handing over intelligence."
“封村”后的乡村马路上人车稀少王明发的草莓是从农历十一月底开始售卖的，年前卖的是18、9块钱一斤。
The strawberries from Wang Mingfa, a rustic road rustic after the village closure, had been sold since the end of November by the lunar calendar, at a price of 18 or 9 yuan a catty.
这十几天，为了促销，他先是把价格降到十块，后又降到八块。
These ten days, in order to promote sales, he first reduced the price to ten dollars, then to eight dollars.
按照这形势下去，三万来斤草莓，至少要少卖三万块。
Under the circumstances, thirty thousand pounds of strawberries were to be sold at least thirty thousand less.
然而即便如此，这份“外卖”的生意也几乎要做到头了。
Even so, the take-out business is almost done.
2月4号下午，王明发载着五斤草莓到白花峪村送货，在白花峪的桥头，亲眼看到这村一个嫁出去的姑娘回来过娘家，因不让进村，和值勤人员大吵大闹起来。
On the afternoon of February 4, Wang Ming delivered five kilograms of strawberries to Baihuayu village. At the bridge at the valley there he saw a married girl from the village come back to her mother's house.
最后村领导报了警。
Finally the village leader called the police.
警车呼啸而来那一刻，王明发拿起草莓便掉头而去了。
When the police car roared in, Wang Ming picked up the strawberries and turned away.
“过娘家都不行？何况是卖草莓这种小事儿？”他自嘲道。
"Not at her house? Besides, strawberry is a small business?" he laughed to himself.
不过在竞争对手陈美清眼中，王明发已经算是幸运了。
But in the eyes of rival Chen Meiqing, Wang Mingfa is already considered lucky.
陈美清家里有一个塑料大棚，和王明发隔了不到一千米，因管理不善，草莓个头要小，产量也低。
Chen Meiqing home has a plastic shed, and Wang Ming hair less than a kilometer away, due to poor management, strawberries are small, production is low.
更让她一直懊悔不迭的是，年二十六起，她一家三口全部得了流感，在村卫生室打吊瓶，一颗草莓也没卖。
To her constant remorse, twenty-six years old, all three members of her family had caught the flu, and were hanging bottles in the village clinic without selling any strawberries.
“偏偏就是最贵那两天病了。
"The last two days were the most expensive.
年初二好了，就变成十块钱了。
On the second day of the new year, it becomes ten dollars.
”陈美清逢人就要唠叨。
Chenmei Qing people want to nag.
一棚的草莓她从年前到现在只卖出去不到五千块。
Strawberries in a shed she had sold for less than five thousand dollars a year before.
更致命的是，王明发和陈美清还有个共同的“敌人”，村里最大的种植户李华伦。
More deadly, Wang and Chen also have a common "enemy," the village's largest grower, Li Hua Lun.
李华伦共有四个草莓大棚，不像二者把大棚建到自家田地里，他在村子的马路旁承包了十亩地，垦出来，建成了一个采摘园，旁边还有小饭馆和停车位。
Unlike the two who built their barns into their fields, Li Hua Lan rented out ten acres of land by the side of the village horse road and built a picking garden with a small restaurant and parking space next to it.
这三户人家是附近几个村庄，唯一的草莓种植户，构成了竞争格局。
These three families are nearby several villages, the only strawberry farmers, constitute a competitive pattern.
按说李华伦亏损更大，但十元一斤的降价潮是他先开启的，八块也是他领头。
Li Hua Lun is said to have a bigger loss, but he started the ten-dollar-a-catty price reduction tide first, eight dollars is his leader.
除此，他还向镇政府捐赠了五百斤，给各个村的疫情防控小组成员赠送了一百斤。
In addition, he donated 500 jin to the township government and 100 jin to the members of the disease prevention and control team in each village.
荣获了表彰奖状一枚。
Awarded a certificate of commendation.
销售不动后，李华伦将五千块钱的草莓捐献给了镇政府（图为李华伦提供）为此，王明发和陈美清找李华伦理论。
Unable to sell, Li Hua Lun donated 5,000 yuan of strawberries to the township government (pictured here as Li Hua Lun).
李华伦双手一摊，劝他俩要拎得清。
Li Hua Lun hands spread, advised them to carry clear.
“个人有个人做生意的道道，我降价也是维护客户。
"I have a personal way to do business and I'm lowering my price to maintain customers.
现在，这情况，就是白送也得送啊，至少换个人情。
Now, this situation, even for nothing have to send ah, at least for personal reasons.
”李华伦说。
'he said.
叁会过日子的王明发，最终也是没舍得送。
Wang Mingfa, who attended the meeting, was also reluctant to give up in the end.
最近几天，每天他和妻子蹲在大棚里忙活，看到熟透且有发烂迹象的草莓便摘下来，先吃为敬。
In recent days, he and his wife squatted around the shed, picking strawberries that were ripe and showing signs of decay.
王明发一家今年“吃够了”草莓现年17岁，正在县城读职业技术学校的儿子，成了他们两口愤怒的对象。
Wang Mingfa's 17-year-old strawberry family, who are attending a vocational and technical school in the county seat, have become the target of anger between them.
“平常香蕉、橙子花钱买着吃，换成自己的水果就不吃了？”王明发一天要冲着儿子叨叨三四次。
"Usually bananas, oranges spend money on food and eat it instead of fruit?" Wang said three or four times a day to his son.
逼迫他吃草莓。
Forcing him to eat strawberries.
王明发的老婆则把吃不下的草莓加上冰糖煮熟，装进玻璃瓶，放到院子里自行冷冻储存。
Wang Mingfa's wife cooked strawberries and sugar they couldn't eat, put them in glass bottles and stored them in the yard.
期望等到了暖和天还能当作罐头吃。
Expect to be able to eat as a can when it's warm.
忆苦思甜是王明发最爱做的事。
Remembering bitterness and sweet is Wang Mingfa's favorite thing to do.
现年54岁的王明发，自出生起便居住在我的家乡，山东鲁中地区南部的一个山村。
Wang Mingfa, 54, has lived in a mountain village in southern Shandong Province since he was born.
村庄属丘陵地区，土地贫瘠，小麦和玉米产量不高。
The villages are hilly areas with poor soil and low yields of wheat and maize.
家中有共有四个兄弟姐妹的王明发，小时吃过野菜，吃过高粱。
There are four brothers and sisters in the family Wang Mingfa, childhood eating wild vegetables, eating sorghum.
“穷”这个字能被他讲述的绘声绘色。
The word "poor" can be painted in the way he tells it.
他告诉我，即使改革开放之后还是穷，一亩地能收五百多斤小麦，卖不到一千块钱。
He told me that even though he was still poor after the reform and opening up, he could collect more than five hundred pounds of wheat in an acre of land.
穷的时候，面不够吃，菜舍不得用油炒，他试过把馒头卷进煎饼里，两种主食一起吃，“好歹咬起来能软和些”。
When poor, the noodles are not enough to eat, dishes reluctant to use oil fried, he has tried steamed bread into pancakes, two staple foods together, "somehow bite can be soft."
最离奇的一个故事是，他曾穷到就着山野里捕来的蚂蚱喝酒。
One of the weirdest stories is that he was poor enough to drink from a grasshopper caught in the mountains.
正喝着，停电了，蚂蚱掉到了桌子腿下面，他抹黑捡起来继续咂摸着喝。
While he drank, the power went out, and the grasshopper fell under the leg of the table, and he smelled and picked it up and continued smacking.
等来电一看，摸起来的是一根蚯蚓。
Wait for a look, touch is an earthworm.
为了脱贫，王明发种过菜园，1997年之后又把菜园改成葡萄园，后来换成苹果园，樱桃园，直到现在的草莓大棚。
To combat poverty, Wang planted a vegetable garden, which he converted into a vineyard in 1997, and later apple orchards, cherry orchards, and strawberry sheds until now.
收入越来越好，种葡萄的时候一亩地能有两三千，苹果上万，樱桃最多能到两三万。
The income is getting better and better, growing grapes can have two or three thousand acres of land, apple tens of thousands of apples, cherries up to twenty or thirty thousand.
王明发家有一儿一女。
Wang Mingfa has a son and a daughter.
地里两三万块钱的收入，外加每逢秋天，当地商贩收购苹果，王明发老婆跟着前去打零工，负责苹果包装，也能赚个七八千。
When the local peddlers bought apples every autumn, Wang Ming-fat's wife went to do odd jobs, packing apples and making seven or eight thousand dollars.
这已足够一个农村家庭一年的开销。
This is enough to cover the expenses of a rural family for one year.
前前后后投入近十万，建两个草莓大棚，是王明发这辈子“赌”的最大的一次。
Before and after investment of nearly 100,000, the construction of two strawberry tents, Wang Mingfa's life "gambling" the largest.
据他说，他不得不“赌”，儿子再过五六年就到了成家的年纪，而县城的房价也早到了八千一平米。
According to him, he had to "bet" that his son would be a family in five or six years and that the county house price was 81 square meters early.
目前，“赌”输了的王明发时而哀叹，时而乐观。
At present, "gambling" lost Wang Mingfa sometimes lament, sometimes optimistic.
他把这次疫情看作和冰雹、暴雨差不多的天灾，天灾往年他遇到过很多次，早就习以为常。
He regarded the outbreak as a natural disaster similar to hail and torrential rain, which he had experienced many times in the past and which he had become accustomed to.
克服克服就过去了，是他最近常说的话。
Overcome overcomes to pass, is he often used to say recently.
去年猪肉涨价，今年过年他家便没灌香肠。
Pork prices rose last year, this year his family did not irrigation sausage.
“吃鸡肉也挺好，有什么不能克服的？”他说。
"It's good to eat chicken, too. What can't be overcome?" he said.
此外，他还庆幸，自家是小本买卖。
Besides, he was glad that his family was a small business.
电视里，还有网上，他看到过真正的大户，上百斤的水果往地里倒。
On television and on the Internet, he had seen real big men pouring down hundreds of pounds of fruit into the fields.
“那才是真正的运气不好。
"That's real bad luck.
还不是得克服？”话音刚落，他又为银行利息肉疼，“一年快三千呢！”更多时候，他还因为同村的人“心里来气”。
"At that, he began to feel the pain of the bank interest," Three thousand a year! "More often than not, he was" angry "with his fellow villagers.
村里总有人来到他的大棚感叹两句，为他可惜。
There was always someone in the village to sigh in his shack. It was a pity for him.
但乡村人的同情，很快就会回归现实。
But the sympathy of the countrymen will soon return to reality.
替王明发感慨完了，乡亲们总会絮叨一句，“幸好不是下樱桃的时候（阳历五月份），要是那时候赶上疫情，樱桃肯定也不让卖了。
Wang Ming sigh for the end, villagers will always say, "Fortunately is not the cherry next time (May Gregorian calendar), if then catch the epidemic, cherry will certainly not be sold.
”转头开始操心起自己地里的果树，为自己庆幸。
"Turning to worry about the fruit trees in his field, he congratulated himself.
气不过的王明发最近几天从大瓦房里，搬进了草莓棚旁边的果园屋。
The angry Wang Mingfa moved into the orchard house next to the strawberry shed from the big tile house in recent days.
因为是温室大棚，草莓棚内有二十多度，搬个马扎坐进去吃饭喝酒，很是舒适。
As it was a greenhouse, strawberry shed more than 20 degrees, a Mazar sat in to eat and drink, very comfortable.
比之北方农村时常零下的室内，要“享受不少”。
Compared to the northern countryside often below zero indoor, to "enjoy a lot."
“草莓虽然卖不出去了，我好歹也住进了暖气房。
"Strawberries don't sell, but I live in the heating room anyway.
”王明发自嘲道。
"Wang made fun of himself.
（以上人名皆为化名）*文中图片为作者拍摄推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles by business people must be authorized to be reproduced. (All original articles must be reproduced with authorization.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
草莓红了，疫情来了。
Strawberries are red. The outbreak is coming.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "草莓红了，疫情来了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; strawberry red, and AT & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "收了三万来斤草莓，少卖了三万多块钱。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; undersold by more than $30,000.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节',。
AT & P's Atypical Spring Festival in the shadow of pneumonia.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '中国股市，鼠年交易第一天……',。
Rat & rsquo; s first day at the Chinese stock market... & apos;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '除了疫情，也该想想经济了',。
In addition to the epidemic, it should have been AT & amp; pound; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
