肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节。
In the shadow of pneumonia, Tianjin's atypical Spring Festival.
刘倩。
Clinique Liu.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：刘倩来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）截至2月4日6时，天津已有新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊病例66例，在动车客车段乘务车间和宝坻区百货大楼都出现了聚集性发病，企业复工和学校开学时间一再延期，至今未定。
By 0600 hours on Feb. 4, there were 66 confirmed cases of coronavirus pneumonia in Tianjin. Aggregate cases have appeared in the passenger workshop of the train section and department store of Baojue district.
在这个漫长又难熬的假期里，人以单元为单位进行隔离，被困在方寸之间，过了一个非典型春节。
In this long and difficult holiday, people unit for isolation, trapped in square inch, after an atypical Spring Festival.
壹滨江道“空了”。
One Riverside Road is "empty."
这条全长2094米的街道平均每日接纳30万人次，节假日及高峰时段日客流量可达百万，是天津最繁华的商业街。
With an average daily capacity of 300,000 people, the 2094-metre street is the busiest commercial street in Tianjin, with a daily flow of millions of passengers during holidays and rush hours.
每年春节假期，我总有几天消磨在此，看电影、逛商场、和朋友聚会。
Every Spring Festival, I always spend a few days here, watching movies, shopping, and friends party.
如今，它变成了一条“空街”，行人一只手就能数得过来，两侧的商场大门紧闭——大半已经停业，坚持营业的商场在门口配备了红外线测温仪，不发烧、戴口罩者才可入内。
Today, it has become an "empty street," where pedestrians can count on one hand and the doors on both sides of the mall are closed - most of them closed, with shops equipped with infrared thermometers at their doors that allow people without fever and masks to enter.
内里也是冷冷清清，营业员全部佩戴口罩，谈论的大多是跟肺炎有关的话题——今天又确诊了两例，听说有种药管用……不必再费劲心思地揽客，在我停留的二十分钟里，只有一行三位客人在挑选金饰，原因是“金能辟邪”。
Neri was also cold, the salesmen all wore masks and talked mostly about pneumonia-related topics - two more cases were confirmed today, and it was said that there was a drug that worked... There was no need to bother with the visitors.
（受访者樊振供图）据某商场工作人员透露，今年春节期间的日均营业额只有2-3万元，是往年同期的二十分之一。
According to a department store employee, the average daily turnover during the Spring Festival this year was only 20-30,000 yuan, one-twentieth of the same period in previous years.
滨江商厦于正月初二下发停业通知，是这个老牌商场自1996年以来的首次停业，2003年“非典”时期，也仅是每日停业半天。
Binjiang Mall issued a notice of closure on the second day of the first month, the first closure of the old mall since 1996, and only half a day off every day during the SARS period in 2003.
正月初二，在天津被称为“姑爷节”，往年的这一天，路面上一车难求，都是带着孩子、拎着点心去老丈人家拜年的姑爷们。
The second day of the first month, in Tianjin is known as "uncle's day," this day, the road is difficult to find, with children, carrying snacks to visit the old man's aunt New Year.
今年的初二笼罩在一片大雾中，路面上罕有行人，公交车上也不过寥寥数人，多半都在空驶。
This year's second day in a fog, the road is rarely pedestrians, the bus is only a few people, most are driving empty.
一大早，我妈就在和二姨打电话，继续探讨从出现疫情后就悬而未决的问题——还要不要去大姨家？饭店不肯退订金怎么办？为免浪费还是去吧？那是天津自1月21日公布首例确诊病例后的第五天，累计确诊病例已达13例，并出现了聚集性发病，政府已于1月24日零时启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Early in the morning, my mother was on the phone with Aunt Eunice to discuss the outstanding issues since the outbreak of the epidemic - do you want to go to your aunt's house? What about the hotel's refusal to refund the deposit? To avoid wasting or going?
但在我妈看来，疫情还没有严重到出不了门的地步，自家亲戚知根知底，在家里聚一聚，又不接触外人，出门也戴着口罩，能被谁传染？年前他们频繁出入各大超市、菜市场，兢兢业业地践行着“二十五，扫房土；二十六，炖大肉；二十七，宰公鸡；二十八，白面发；二十九，贴倒有”的传统，戴着口罩已经是一种巨大的进步了。
But in my mother's view, the epidemic is not too serious to leave the door, family relatives know who can infect them by getting together at home without meeting outsiders and wearing masks.
好在几乎没有人真的去现宰一只公鸡，1月23日天津市人民政府新闻办公室官方微博“天津发布”称，在三个市场内发现销售现宰活禽，已进行无害化处理。
Fortunately, few people actually go to slaughter a rooster, January 23 Tianjin Municipal People's Government Information Office of the official micro-blog "Tianjin issued," said the sale of live poultry slaughtered in three markets, has been innocuous treatment.
同日，餐饮协会倡导商家和消费者协商解决预订退单问题。
On the same day, the Catering Association initiated negotiations between businesses and consumers to resolve booking refunds.
刘军在一家集KTV、洗浴、餐饮于一体的大型酒店工作，他说春节期间他们酒店预订出去了800桌，备了40万元的冻品和4、5万元的蔬菜，还有200个西瓜，塞满了4间大小为40平方米的冷库。
Liu, who works at a large KTV, bath and dining hotel, said 800 tables were reserved for the Spring Festival, with 400,000 yuan in frozen and 40,000 to 50,000 yuan in vegetables and 200 watermelons stuffed with four 40-square-meter freezers.
年初二开始酒店自发停业，顾客可无条件退桌或改期，囤积的大量易坏蔬菜被拉到市场低价甩卖。
The beginning of the second day of the hotel spontaneous closure, customers can unconditionally withdraw or reschedule, hoarding a large number of perishable vegetables were pulled to the market bargain.
菜装满了一辆大依维柯车，还没有卖完，刘军估计这次损失不少，“我们老板愁得天天在大厅坐着”。
The food is full of a big Iveco, not sold out, Liu Jun estimated the loss, "our boss is worried sitting in the hall every day."
这样的饭店不在少数，西贝莜面村全国400家线下门店基本停业，预计春节前后一个月营收额损失高达7-8亿元，老板在接受采访时称，贷款发工资也只能撑三个月了。
You've been out of business for 400 naked oats in the country, and expect to lose as much as 700 to 800 million yuan in revenue in the month before and after Spring Festival, the boss said in an interview, the loan can only pay for three months.
贰初二的聚会取消了，所有的聚会都取消了。
Second, the second day of the party canceled, all the parties were cancelled.
天津人过年有个走亲访友的传统，我家尤甚，串门日程能排满整个假期，今年安安静静宅在家里就觉得时间变得格外漫长难熬。
Tianjin people have a tradition of visiting relatives and friends over the New Year, especially in my family, can schedule a full holiday, this year quietly at home feel that the time has become particularly long.
看电视成为最好的打发时间的方式，也是最好的获取本地信息的方式，我惊讶地发现常年不看的天津电视台只一个新闻频道就有12个时段、8档节目在滚动播出最新疫情和应对措施。
Watching TV is the best way to spend your time, and the best way to get local information. I was surprised to find that Tianjin TV, which has been out of sight all year round, has only one news channel with 12 times and eight programmes rolling out the latest epidemic and responses.
天津地铁自1月26日起全线网测温，不戴口罩、不测体温者禁入，坐地铁像是坐专列，一节车厢大约有44个座位，最多时不过坐了十一二人，大家默契地各自占据一排座椅的一角，谨慎地和他人保持距离。
Tianjin subway since January 26, the entire network temperature measurement, do not wear masks, temperature people are not allowed to take the subway like a train, about 44 seats, a maximum of 11 people, everyone secretly occupied a row of seats, and carefully maintain a distance with others.
公交线路要求“一圈一通风”、“平均满载率低于70%，给乘客留出安全距离”，一位手里攥着口罩的中年妇女被司机勒令戴上口罩才能上车。
A middle-aged woman holding a mask was ordered by the driver to put on a mask to get on the bus.
出租车和叫车平台上的私家车都要求每日消毒、司乘双方戴口罩，乘客不戴口罩司机可以拒载，司机不戴口罩乘客可以投诉。
Both taxis and private cars on the platforms require daily disinfection, drivers wear masks on both sides, drivers can refuse to carry them without masks, and drivers can lodge complaints without wearing masks.
但谢师傅也不是每次都严格执行，他戴着普通的棉布口罩，拉过喝醉酒的客人，“不戴也就不戴了，这样的能有嘛毛病？”滨江道的两头各有一名保安拿着红外线测温仪拦住每一个想穿街而过的行人，体温合格才可进入，时不时还有人巡逻检查。
But not every time, he wore a regular cotton mask and pulled out drunken guests. "What's wrong with not wearing it?" A security guard at each end of the waterfront stopped anyone trying to cross the street with an infrared thermometer to get in, and there were occasional patrols.
但整条街道仅有两台测温仪，滨江道并不是一个只有两端可以进入的封闭街区，当我问及行人要是从中间的岔路进来怎么办的时候，保安告诉我：“现在到处都在测体温，要是真有问题就到不了这了，跑得了初一跑不了十五”。
But there are only two thermometers on the street, and Binjiang Road is not a closed block with access at either end. When I asked people what to do if they wanted to get in at the middle road, the security guard told me, "Now the temperature is taking everywhere.
戴口罩、测体温被当作一个强制性措施，让人觉得些许安心，但日渐增多的确诊病例也让人觉得恐慌，少出门、少接触成了所有人的共识，于是开始大量囤货。
Wearing masks and taking body temperature as a mandatory measure is reassuring, but the growing number of confirmed cases is scary, with less travel and less contact becoming the consensus of all, leading to a massive hoarding of goods.
最先被抢购一空的是方便面、挂面等速食品，我家附近的一个小超市，初二那天所有康师傅方便面被抢购一空，另一个大型超市则是所有袋装方便面售罄，货架上一片狼藉，理货员正在补货桶装面，告诉那些犹豫着想等袋装面的人，“这是超市最后的存货了，还不知道什么时候能再进货”。
The first to be snapped up were instant noodles, instant noodles, instant noodles at a supermarket near my home. On the second day, all the instant noodles were snapped up. Another large supermarket was running out of instant noodles.
情况并没有想象般严重，缺货、涨价的混乱最多持续了两天。
The situation was not as serious as expected, with the chaos of stock-outs and price increases lasting up to two days.
1月28日大年初四那天，100吨大白菜发运批发市场；第二天，蔬菜进货量增加六成，达到了5500吨；同日，康师傅天津工厂三条生产线开工，保证日产不低于400万袋；自1月31日起，每日发布部分农贸批发市场重点商品价格监测。
On January 28, the first day of the year, 100 tons of Chinese cabbage was shipped to the wholesale market. On the following day, the import of vegetables increased by 60% to 5,500 tons.
春节假期延长、大中小学开学延期，除了偶尔出门采购新鲜蔬菜水果外，大多数人的生活如同静止了一般，但还有些人一直在工作，维持着这座城市的运转。
With the extension of the Spring Festival and the postponement of the opening of schools and colleges, most people's lives are static except for the occasional purchase of fresh vegetables and fruits, but there are others who have been working to keep the city going.
叁1月26日，天津市政府紧急通知，要求全市公务员提前结束假期，于27日0时前返岗。
On January 26, Tianjin Municipal Government issued an emergency notice requiring all civil servants to leave early and return to work before 0 on the 27th.
陈聪是一名街道基层公务员，她在25日深夜12点接到通知，26日从河南返津，27日一早正式上班。
Chen Cong, a street civil servant, was notified at 12: 00 pm on the 25th and returned to work early on the 27th from Henan Province.
她的工作是下社区，挨家挨户排查有无武汉、湖北来津人员，并进行宣传监督，督促小区保安设岗，禁止外来人员进入，督促物业进行全面消毒，督促居民戴口罩、勤洗手。
Her job is to go from house to house to check whether Wuhan and Hubei people come to Jin, and to conduct publicity and supervision, urge residential security guards to set up posts, prohibit the entry of foreign personnel, urge property for thorough disinfection, urge residents to wear masks, wash their hands frequently.
在城市中，社区防控是防止疫情扩散的关键一环。
In cities, community control is the key to preventing the spread of the epidemic.
国家卫健委疾控局一级巡视员贺青华在1月27日的新闻发布会上重点谈到了社区防控工作，“疫情防控正处于关键时期，必须充分发挥基层社区包括农村社区的动员能力，实行地毯式追踪网格化管理，将防护措施落实到户、到人，群防群控，稳防稳控”。
"Prevention and control of the epidemic is at a critical juncture. We must give full play to grass-roots communities, including rural communities, carry out carpet tracking grid management, implement protective measures to the home, people, group control, stable control."
社区工作人员也面临着很大的压力，每日超负荷工作，陈聪爬楼爬得脚都肿了，几日下来连说话都没力气，更大的问题是，防护物资的紧缺。
Community workers are also under pressure, with daily overwork, Chen's feet swollen as he climbed the stairs, and he has been unable to speak for days. A bigger problem is the shortage of protective materials.
陈聪下户时唯一的防护工具就是口罩，还缺货得厉害，政府协调未果，只好让各单位各显神通，她说她也害怕，“但这是工作，害怕也没有办法”。
Chen's only protection was a mask. He was out of stock and the government failed to coordinate. She said she, too, was afraid. "But it's work.
同样被召回的还有张杨，她是天津人，在某局下属事业单位工作。
Also recalled was Zhang Yang, a native of Tianjin who works in an institution affiliated to a bureau.
召回的第一天，没有防疫任务，她做着常规工作，中午11点半接到通知，因物资不够，防护设备无法发放到位，第二天不用来上班了。
On the first day of the recall, she was on routine duty and was informed at 11: 30 p.m. that protective equipment could not be delivered due to lack of supplies and would not be available for work the following day.
一个小时后，再次接到通知，联系上口罩了，可以正常上班。
An hour later, was again informed to contact the mask, can be normal to work.
“天津公务人员提前结束假期”这一话题登上了微博热搜榜，底下评论有褒有贬。
"Tianjin public officials early end of the holiday" this topic boarded the microblogging hot list, the comments below there are derogatory remarks.
《侠客岛》发表了一篇文章，题为《公务员提前返岗为防疫？别成了形式主义》，现在已经被删除了。
Chivalry Island published an article entitled "Early return of civil servants for epidemic prevention? Do not become formalism," which has now been deleted.
与防疫工作无关的张杨，在1月28日下午再次接到通知，继续放假，直到2月3日上班。
Zhang Yang, who has nothing to do with epidemic prevention, was told again on the afternoon of January 28 to stay on holiday until February 3.
口罩一货难求。
Masks are hard to come by.
天津出现首例确诊病例的那天，我妈在三家药店买到了三包价格不一的普通防护口罩，聊胜于无。
On the day of the first confirmed case in Tianjin, my mother bought three bags of common face masks at three pharmacies, at varying prices, rather than none.
第二天，各大药店的口罩开始被疯抢，酒精、84消毒液相继断货。
The next day, the major pharmacies began to be crazy masks, alcohol, 84 disinfectant successively.
我家附近的三家药店不约而同贴出了无货通知，其中一家在做缺货登记，密密麻麻写满了好几页A4纸，另一家干脆隔门营业。
Three pharmacies near my home had posted notices of no goods, one of them was out of stock, it was packed with pages of A4 paper, and the other was open from door to door.
特殊时期，药店工作人员也被推到了“一线”，有人发着烧来买药，王令告诉我，“这种时候顾客说话都是有隐瞒的”，几天后，药店规定，咳嗽发烧患者买药要实名登记。
Special times, drugstore staff have been pushed to the "line", someone fired to buy medicine, Wang told me, "at this time customers speak is hidden," a few days later, pharmacy regulations, cough fever patients to buy real name registration.
徐意则直接网购，各大电商平台她都下了单，目前只收到了一单，是在21日23:08分下单，从山东枣庄发货，经顺丰承运，辗转济南、北京，于30日到达天津。
Xu Yi is the direct online purchase, the major electrical business platform she has received a single, is the 21st 23: 08 orders, from Zaozhuang, Shandong Province, through Shunfeng carrier, tossing Jinan, Beijing, arrived in Tianjin on the 30th.
她还是担心，其他几单迟迟没有发货，区区一包口罩又能供同为上班族的一家三口使用多久呢。
She is still worried about delays in delivering other orders and how long a bag of masks will last for three members of the same working family.
人人都恨不得多抢点口罩，给自己多点防护的时候，拾荒人似乎被遗忘了。
Everyone would like to buy more masks, give themselves more protection, scavengers seem to be forgotten.
我在滨江道停留的不到一个小时时间里，行人没见到几个，拾荒人却至少有七位，他们像往常一样，沿街翻找垃圾箱，挑出矿泉水瓶和废报纸，他们中有三人没有戴口罩，还有的人口罩脏兮兮的。
In less than an hour of my stay on the Riverside, few pedestrians and at least seven scavengers, as usual, rummaged the streets looking for bins, picking out water bottles and waste newspapers, three of whom were not wearing masks and some of whom were dirty with masks.
几乎每一个路过滨江道的人都会举起手机，拍下这难得一见的冷清。
Almost everyone who passes by the waterfront raises his mobile phone and takes this rare glimpse of solitude.
75岁的退休老大爷樊振，这几天背着单反相机几乎拍遍了天津的地标性建筑，他说：“特殊时期，我要把这些记录下来”。
Retired grandfather Fan Zhen, 75, who spent the last few days carrying a SLR and nearly all the landmarks in Tianjin, said: "Special time, I will write them down."
（文中均为化名）*头图由受访者樊振提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
The head map is provided by Fan Zhen, the interviewee, who provided a strict reading statement: All original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节。
In the shadow of pneumonia, Tianjin's atypical Spring Festival.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in Tianjin under the shadow of pneumonia.
var msg_desc = "特殊时期，我们都是记录者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we were all record keepers at a particular time.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '中国股市，鼠年交易第一天……',。
Rat & rsquo; s first day at the Chinese stock market... & apos;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '除了疫情，也该想想经济了',。
In addition to the epidemic, it should have been AT & amp; pound; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '返程大潮迫近，北京绷紧神经',。
At the approach of its return journey Beijing has AT & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
