返程大潮迫近，北京绷紧神经。
Beijing is tense with the coming back tide.
郭儒逸。
Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）壹下午五点左右，北京地铁宋家庄站内看不到多少人。
Author: Guo Ruyi source: business figures (ID: biz-leaders) around 5: 00 pm, the Beijing Metro Song Jiazhuang station did not see many people.
我穿过闸机，搭上一趟刚进站的列车，整节车厢里除了一位身着制服的工作人员，没有其他乘客。
I got through the sluice and got on the incoming train, which had no passengers except a uniformed staff member.
这天是大年初二。
It was New Year's Day.
因为担心城际高铁暂停和高速封路，我急匆匆从天津返回北京。
Fearing the suspension of intercity high-speed lines and high-speed road closures, I hurried back to Beijing from Tianjin.
街道上几乎没有行人，除了空荡荡的公交车外，其他车辆也很少。
There are few pedestrians on the streets, and few vehicles except the empty buses.
地铁站台里循环放送着广播：车站公共区域每天消毒五次，安检设备每小时消毒一次，全体工作人员佩戴口罩上岗。
Metro station stations on the circular broadcast: station public areas disinfect five times a day, security equipment every hour disinfection, all staff wearing masks on duty.
整个城市似乎都陷入了一片沉寂。
The whole city seemed to fall into silence.
停业的咖啡馆过去的一周，我下楼出门的次数屈指可数。
The Closed Cafe I've been out of doors a dozen times in the past week.
和多数人一样，只能呆在房间里，频繁地刷着各种信息，再找一点其他事情干。
Like most people, you can only stay in the room, brush messages frequently, and find something else to do.
虽然距离疫情中心武汉有一千多公里，但北京俨然也是如临大敌，人人不敢掉以轻心。
Although Wuhan, the epicentre of the epidemic, is more than a thousand kilometers away, Beijing seems to be an enemy.
对北京人孙路来说，这个春节的感觉就是“哪都没人！”往年的朋友聚会、逛庙会、吃饭看电影，今年全部没有了。
For Sun Lu, a Beijing native, the feeling of the Spring Festival is "nobody!" Friends parties, temple fairs, meals and movies are all gone this year.
他住在丰台，家附近的餐馆很多都已关门，唯一热闹点的地方就是超市，偶尔还能看到附近居民在排着队抢购蔬菜。
He lives in Fengtai and many restaurants near his home are closed. The only popular place is the supermarket, and occasionally nearby residents can be seen lining up to buy vegetables.
往年热闹的超市现在十分冷清“我觉得菜价挺贵的。
This year's busy supermarket is now very cold "I think the price of vegetables is quite expensive.
比如说黄瓜，原来可能也就每斤三四块钱，现在都接近九块了。
Cucumber, for instance, might have cost three or four dollars per catty, but now it's nearly nine dollars.
”他对我说。
'he said.
至于各处都紧缺的口罩，无论是小区附近的药店，还是遍寻各家电商平台，“根本都买不到”。
As for the face masks in short supply everywhere, whether it is the drugstore near the neighborhood, or all over the business platform, "can not buy at all."
他还有一个担忧，听说邻近小区已经出现一例确诊病例，现在能做的也只能是在聊天群中互相告诫家人，外出注意安全，尽量少去扎堆的地方。
He was also concerned to hear that a confirmed case had been reported in a neighbouring community and that all that could be done was to warn each other's families in a chat group, go out of their homes and make as few attempts as possible to make a pile-up.
一场突然袭来的疫情，将北京城内欢度春节的气氛一扫而空。
A sudden epidemic swept away the atmosphere in Beijing for the Spring Festival.
去年春节假期涌入40万游客的故宫，从正月初一起实施闭馆，恢复时间仍无法确定。
Last spring holiday into the Forbidden City of 400,000 visitors, from the first day of the implementation of the closure, recovery time is still uncertain.
而以往香火旺盛，需要排长队抢烧新年头香的雍和宫，自除夕当天起也已暂停开放。
The Yonghe Palace, which used to be very fragrant and needed long queues to burn the incense of the new year, has been suspended since New Year's Eve.
除此之外，包括庙会在内的大型活动纷纷取消，已经搭建好的装饰、设施被全部拆除。
In addition, major events, including temple fairs, have been cancelled, decorations have been set up and facilities have been dismantled.
空无一人的安踏和优衣库家住三元桥附近的房丽，同样感觉今年的年味淡了很多。
The empty Anta and Uniqlo houses near the Sanyuan Bridge, the same feeling this year's taste much lighter.
按照往年惯例，他们原定于大年初三和初四的家庭聚餐，也被迫取消。
In accordance with past practice, they were scheduled for the third and fourth New Year's Eve family dinner, but was also forced to cancel.
有意思的是，小区附近的餐馆挂起了卖菜的招牌，年前铆足劲备下的菜品囤货，现在只得摆在外面，出售给过往的路人。
Interestingly, restaurants near the neighborhood have put up signs selling vegetables, and a riveted stock of vegetables from the previous year has had to be placed outside and sold to passers-by.
截至1月31日14时，北京全市累计确诊病例139例，其中死亡1例，出院5例，133例在市级定点医院进行隔离治疗。
As of 1400 hours January 31, the city had a total of 139 confirmed cases, including 1 death, 5 discharges and 133 isolated cases in municipal designated hospitals.
在16个市辖区中，仅房山、平谷、密云、延庆尚未有病例报告。
In 16 municipal districts, only Fangshan, Pinggu, Miyun, Yanqing has not yet reported cases.
不过所幸的是，这些确诊病例中80%均属于轻症。
Fortunately, however, 80 per cent of these confirmed cases are of a mild nature.
北京地坛医院院长日前打气说，市民们不必要如此的恐慌。
The director of Beijing's Ditan Hospital has cheered up to say citizens don't have to panic.
疫情阴云的笼罩之下，通往北京的交通正受到严格管制。
Traffic to Beijing is being tightly controlled under the cloud of an epidemic.
1月26日起，进出北京的长途客运班线和旅游包车停运；1月28日至2月26日，包括大量京津城际在内的旅客列车临时停运；1月30日当天，首都机场取消北京往返武汉、襄阳、广州、上海等地的航班546架次。
Since January 26, long-distance passenger and tour buses to and from Beijing have been suspended. From January 28 to February 26, passenger trains, including a large number of Jing Jin intercity passenger trains, stopped temporarily.
华北空管局表示，首都机场和大兴机场航班计划变动较大，目前航班数量日均减少接近10%。
North China's air traffic control agency said the capital airport and Daxing airport flight plans have changed more, the number of flights per day is reduced by nearly 10%.
贰有些人感到过节乏味，有些人却已陷入深度焦虑。
Some people find festivals boring, while others have fallen into deep anxiety.
一位滴滴快车司机说，这几天经常空驶两个小时才能接到一单，从早上九点上班到晚上十点下班，一天也跑不到15单。
A drip-drip driver said he often had to drive two hours to get a single order these days, working from 9am to 10pm and running less than 15 a day.
“春节期间每单有8元补助，但节后就没有了。
"During the Spring Festival, there is an allowance of 8 yuan per ticket.
如果现在把车退租，就拿不回押金，可跑滴滴又不赚钱。
If the car is now rent back, you can not get the deposit back, can run dribs and drabs do not make money.
”他忍不住感慨。
He could not help feeling.
同样焦虑的还有北京某传染病医院的医生王军。
Also worrying was Wang Jun, a doctor at an infectious-disease hospital in Beijing.
他在微信里说，其实从去年12月底就开始焦虑，这种感觉一直持续到现在。
In his letter, he said he had been worried since the end of December, and that feeling continues to this day.
当时有关疫情的零星报道，尚未被大规模关注。
Sporadic reports of the outbreak at the time have not received much attention.
后来官方才把12月8日武汉中心医院一名男子被确诊为不明肺炎，作为首个被统计的病例。
It was only later that authorities confirmed the case of an unidentified pneumonia in Wuhan Central Hospital on December 8 as the first recorded case.
就这样，新年和春节气氛裹挟下的武汉，没有及时发出警报，直到后来形势转瞬恶化。
In this way, the atmosphere of the New Year and Spring Festival in Wuhan, did not give timely warning, until the situation deteriorated.
1月12日，我去过一趟北京什刹海冰场。
On January 12, I went to Shishahai ice rink in Beijing.
在那之前的一个周末，这个可容纳2000人的大型滑冰场刚刚正式开放。
The 2,000-strong rink had just opened the previous weekend.
当天滑冰场上游人密密麻麻，售票窗口前也排起几十米长的队伍。
The upstream of the rink was crowded with people, and scores of meters long queues lined up at the ticket window.
后海的巷子里，摩肩接踵，叫卖不断，到处是准备过节的欢庆气氛。
The alleys of Houhai are crowded with people, selling constantly, and there is a festive atmosphere to prepare for the holidays.
而就在两天前，新型冠病毒感染肺炎专家组成员王广发接受采访时还表示，整体疫情“可防可控”。
Just two days ago, Wang Guangfa, a member of the panel of experts on new-type viral pneumonia, also said the overall outbreak was "preventable and controllable."
但在王军看来，这一说法并没有根据。
However, in the view of the Royal Army, this statement has no basis.
那段时间，他的心情变得很低落，“什么都不想说”。
At that time, he became depressed, "don't want to say anything."
他当时觉得，要做到可防可控，不是凭嘴就能说的。
At the time, he felt that to be preventable and controllable was not something that could be said by mouth.
公众对疫情的紧张情绪来自于钟南山作出的“人传人”判断。
The public's nervousness about the outbreak stems from Zhong Nan Shan's "person-to-person" judgment.
1月21日，小区附近的药店出现抢购迹象，虽然还能买到口罩和板蓝根，但存货已经不多。
On January 21, there were signs of snap-ups at drugstores near the neighborhood, and stocks were low, although masks and planks were available.
药店职员说正在协调补货，但不清楚能否及时到货。
The drugstore clerk said the restocking was being coordinated, but it was unclear whether it would arrive in time.
北京另外一家传染病医院的医生陶娟，那几天也在密切关注着疫情的发展。
Tao Juan, a doctor at another infectious-disease hospital in Beijing, was closely watching the outbreak in those days.
除夕当天恰巧是她值班，中午左右她发了一条微信说，很感谢很多人发来的问候，由于自己和同事都忙于一线工作，希望大家给医生的工作更多理解。
She happened to be on duty on New Year's Eve, and around noon she sent a message saying, 'Thank you so much for your greetings.
医疗物资开始迅速出现缺口。
Medical supplies are beginning to run short.
北京多家医院先后向社会公开征集医疗物资，我在一个医生组成的微信群里看到，目前有的医院N95口罩仅供给发热门诊和急诊医护人员，其他医护人员被迫靠后。
Several hospitals in Beijing have openly solicited medical supplies from society, and I saw in a small group of doctors that N95 masks are now available only for fever clinics and emergency medical personnel, forcing other medical workers to back down.
在市面上，接触到的多家药店纷纷表示口罩等已售罄，有的药店偶尔到货一批N90级别防护口罩，即使是分拆开没有包装售卖，短短时间内马上就被一抢而空。
In the market, the contact with a number of pharmacies, such as masks sold out, some pharmacies occasionally arrived at a batch of N90-class face masks, even if split unpackaged for sale, was seized in a short time.
1月30日上午，北京市举行疫情防控新闻发布会。
January 30 morning, Beijing held a news conference on epidemic prevention and control.
相关官员在会上表示，针对公众对口罩的迫切诉求，北京市已紧急调拨货源，当天就可以下发。
Officials told the meeting that Beijing had urgently allocated supplies in response to the public's urgent demand for masks, which could be distributed the same day.
不过截至目前，状况似乎还没有太大改善。
So far, however, the situation does not appear to have improved much.
另一方面，疫情状况仍然很难言乐观。
On the other hand, the situation remains difficult to be optimistic.
据北京市疾控中心副主任庞星火透露，当前是全市范围围堵新冠病毒的关键时期，存在病毒感染扩散逐步加大的风险。
Pang Xinghua, deputy director of the Beijing CDC, said it was a critical period for the city-wide containment of the new crown virus, with the risk of a growing spread of the virus.
严控措施也在升级。
Tight controls are also on the rise.
从1月31日首班车起，北京地铁启动全线网进站测温工作，对进站乘客体温进行测试。
From the first train on January 31, Beijing Metro launched a network of inbound stations temperature measurement work to test the temperature of inbound passengers.
随着返京潮高峰临近，压力逐渐来到了所有人面前。
As the rush back to Beijing nears, the pressure is on everyone.
叁出于避开返工高峰的考虑，孔洁在1月30日提前从河北老家回到北京。
In order to avoid the rework peak, Kong Jie in January 30 ahead of schedule from his hometown in Hebei back to Beijing.
她在朋友圈发了一张地铁十号线的照片，整个车厢内只有寥寥几人。
She sent a picture of Line 10 in the circle of friends. There were only a few people inside.
按照公司安排，节后一周时间，她不需要到办公室上班，在家办公即可。
For a week after the holiday, she doesn't have to go to the office and work from home.
大年初六上午的十号线但很多外地返京者没有这么幸运，他们首先面对的是如何迈进小区和家门。
New Year's Day 6 morning line 10 but many returning to Beijing is not so lucky, they are the first to face how to enter the community and home.
从山西返京的王芳芳租住在昌平区北七家镇东三旗村，30日当天回到住处时，她却被告知不能入内。
Wang Fangfang, who returned to Beijing from Shanxi, was told she could not enter the three-qi village in the north of seven towns in Changping district.
她转发给我的一张房东发来的照片显示，根据东三旗村委会的通知，凡是外地返京人员必须在外隔离14天并拿到健康证明后，才能进村。
A photo from the landlord she forwarded to me showed that, according to the notice from the village council of DongSanqi, people returning from abroad could not enter the village until they had been quarantined for 14 days and had obtained a medical certificate.
王芳芳提供的与房东沟通微信截图“没有人告诉我怎么开这个证明，房东也说不清楚。
"No one told me how to open the certificate, nor could the landlord tell me.
”30日傍晚，在手机屏幕的另一端，王芳芳感到很无奈。
On the evening of the 30th, at the other end of the screen, Wang felt helpless.
“我现在都不知道晚上住哪里。
"I don't even know where I live at night.
”除了东三旗村，北七家镇下辖的平西府村、八仙庄村和白庙村等，均发布了口径相似的通知，一时间激起了众多租户的不满。
In addition to the village of Dongsanqi, the villages of Pingxi, Bazanzhuang and Paimiao, which are under the jurisdiction of seven northern towns, have all issued similar notices, provoking a great deal of dissatisfaction among tenants.
在一个超三百人的“返京人取暖”微信群中，群员们开始自发统计所有被禁入内的小区名单。
In a small group of more than 300 "Returnees Heating" micro-letters, the group began to spontaneously count all off-limits neighborhoods.
截至1月31日下午五点，这份名单上就包括了昌平区、朝阳区、海淀区和顺义区的多个小区。
As of 5 p.m. on January 31, the list included several districts in Changping, Chaoyang, Haidian and Shunyi districts.
“回不去”的北京，成为一个被调侃的论调。
"Can not go back" in Beijing, has become a joke.
与此同时，更多的人则是在焦虑地等待，希望限制措施有所放宽。
At the same time, many more are waiting anxiously for the restrictions to be eased.
在遭到部分租户的坚决抗议之后，海淀区西北旺镇的图景嘉园出现松动。
The landscape of Wangzhen, northwest of Haidian District, has been loosened after being resolutely protested by some tenants.
原本对外地返京者封闭的小区，在31日早上允许正常进入。
The area, originally closed to people returning to Beijing, was allowed to enter normally on the morning of the 31st.
有租户在微信群中庆幸地表示，“终于能进去了，但过程比较曲折，中途有人报警，还有人发微博曝光。
"I finally got in, but the process turned out to be a little bit more tortuous," said one tenant, congratulating himself in the micromail crowd.
”虽然需要每天办理出入证，并且签署相关承诺书，但相比之下他们不必再担忧无家可归。
"They don't have to worry about being homeless, although they need to get a daily pass and sign a written undertaking to that effect.
1月31日下午，北京市民政局特意对此回应称，外地返京人员只要没有确认是肺炎病例的，或无明显症状，应该自由地进入小区。
On the afternoon of January 31, the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau made a special response, saying that people returning to Beijing from abroad should be free to enter the area as long as they do not confirm pneumonia cases or have no obvious symptoms.
但这样的表态并没有完全消除人们的疑虑，这个微信群中依然是议论纷纷。
But such statements have not entirely dispelled concerns, and the message continues to be a moot point.
政策多变，是普遍的疑虑之一。
Policy variability is one of the common misgivings.
被阻挡在外的返京者发愁能不能快速解决，而不少还没有踏上返程的外地人，只能不断地自我安慰、排解。
Blocked back to Beijing can not be resolved quickly, and many have not yet set foot on the return trip, can only continue to comfort themselves, solace.
据北京市卫健委透露，网格化和地毯式的管理，以及逐户全覆盖排查，将是下一步防控的关键环节。
According to the Beijing Health Commission, grid and blanket management, as well as full house-to-house screening, will be the next key link in prevention and control.
这些措施里，包括了向居委会上报家中人数、身体状况，以及近期是否离京外出等。
The measures include reporting to the neighborhood committee the number of people in their homes, their physical condition and whether they will be away from Beijing in the near future.
面对严峻的形势，1月31日夜，北京市政府又发出通知，除必要行业外，其他企业正常上班时间延至2月10日。
Faced with the grim situation, on the night of January 31, the Beijing municipal government issued another notice extending normal working hours to Feb. 10 for all but essential industries.
在此之前，企业不得造成人员汇聚和集中。
Until then, enterprises must not create a concentration and concentration of personnel.
在返京潮即将到来之际，这座城市正紧张地做着准备。
The city is bracing itself for a return to Beijing.
内部防控收紧的同时，数天之前，一支136名医护人员组成的北京医疗队已紧急飞抵武汉。
Internal controls tightened just days after a 136-member medical team from Beijing flew to Wuhan.
他们进驻到疫情漩涡中的武汉协和医院，将在亟需的感染、呼吸病方面提供技术支援。
Their presence at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, a vortex of the epidemic, will provide much-needed technical support in the areas of infection and respiratory disease.
新闻报道里的病例数字每天仍然在增加，没有人知道疫情会何时过去。
The number of cases reported in news reports continues to increase every day, and no one knows when the outbreak will pass.
我把冰箱塞满了瓜果蔬菜，因为所剩的口罩不多，未来几天可能又得足不出户。
I stuffed the fridge with fruits and vegetables because there were not many masks left and I might have to stay home for the next few days.
感受了太多北京城以往的拥挤和快节奏，眼下的这种状态的确罕见，难得的感觉。
Feeling too much of Beijing's crowded and fast-paced past, this state of affairs is indeed rare and rare.
写完稿子的时候，对面居民楼里逐渐亮起了更多的灯光，每个普通人仍然都在，他们只是在安静地等待这场灾疫的结束。
As I finished writing, there was more light in the opposite apartment building, and everyone was still there, quietly waiting for the end of the epidemic.
（文中采访对象均为化名）*图片由作者及受访对象拍摄提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
Pictures taken by authors and interviewees provide a recommended reading statement: All original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
返程大潮迫近，北京绷紧神经。
Beijing is tense with the coming back tide.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "返程大潮迫近，北京绷紧神经";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "等待一场大考验。
var msg _ desc = & quot; awaiting a major test.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '除了疫情，也该想想经济了',。
In addition to the epidemic, it should have been AT & amp; pound; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '武汉“封城”5日，一个1岁孩子妈妈的生活日记',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '此时，我在湖北襄阳',。
At the time, I was at Xiangyang & apos; in Hubei province.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
