除了疫情，也该想想经济了。
In addition to the epidemic, it is time to think about the economy.
任尚坤。
Ren Shankun.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：任尚坤来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）北京时间1月31日凌晨，世界卫生组织召开记者会宣布：新型冠状病毒疫情被列为“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”（Public Health Emergency of International Concern，即PHEIC）。
The new coronavirus is classified as a public health emergency of international concern, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced at a press conference early Monday morning.
PHEIC是世卫组织传染病应急机制中的最高等级，意味着该事件“严重、突然、不同寻常、意料之外”，同时对公共卫生的影响“超出国界”，并可能需要立即采取国际行动。
PHEIC is the highest level in the WHO emergency response mechanism for infectious diseases, implying that the event was "severe, sudden, unusual, unexpected," and that the public health impact "transcends national borders" and may require immediate international action.
截至1月30日24时，国内新型冠状病毒累计确诊病例9692例。
As of 2400 hours on January 30, 9692 cases of new coronavirus were diagnosed in China.
这已经超过当年非典全球确诊感染8422例的数据。
That's more than the 8,422 cases of infection diagnosed worldwide that year.
被定性为PHEIC，中国面临更大的外部冲击，其他国家或据此作出反应，中国的旅游、航空、酒店、餐饮、出口甚至外商投资等相关行业都可能受到较大影响。
China faces even greater external shocks, and other countries may react accordingly, with tourism, aviation, hotels, restaurants, exports and even foreign investment likely to be more affected.
此前，已有多国陆续暂停中国航线。
Prior to that, China has been suspended by a number of countries.
壹1月30日，李先生所在的旅行社下发通知，公司自2月起无限期休假，员工停薪留职。
On January 30, Mr. Li's travel agency issued a notice that the company has been on indefinite leave since February, leaving its employees without pay.
这是一家位于韩国的地接社，主要负责接待中国大陆游客。
This is a ground receiving agency located in South Korea, mainly responsible for the reception of visitors from mainland China.
李先生讲，大型旅行社本身资产重，成本高，但像他们这样的中级旅行社，固定资产并没太多，人力开支即是最高昂的成本。
'Big travel agencies have heavy assets and high costs themselves, 'Mr. Li said.' But for a middle- level travel agency like them, fixed assets aren't much, and labor costs are the biggest.
如今，各个业务基本停滞。
Today, operations are largely stagnant.
李先生保守估计，公司受疫情影响得延续3-6个月。
Mr. Lee conservatively estimated that the company was affected by the epidemic for three to six months.
“这和失业没啥两样。
"It's no different than being unemployed.
”他对“商业人物”说。
'he said to the Businessman.
在国内，自己经营着一家小旅行社的兰女士，则时不时发条朋友圈解释退票退款问题。
At home, Ms. Lan, who runs her own small travel agency, explains the refund problem from time to time through a network of clockwork friends.
这个春节，她难得宅在了家里，大致估算损失在6万元左右。
This Spring Festival, she rarely at home, the approximate estimate of the loss of 60,000 yuan.
她比较忧虑的是，还不确定什么时候能开门营业，工人工资、房租等需要照常支付，接下来的潜在损失她还没做统计。
She was concerned that it was not certain when the door would open and workers would have to pay their wages, rents, etc., and that she would not be able to account for the potential losses.
不过客户们并不买账，毕竟他们的出游计划泡汤了，前期预付给旅行社的钱也很难囫囵的再要回来。
But customers don't buy it. After all, their travel plans are ruined, and the money advanced to the travel agency is not easy to get back.
原本一行六人要去云南的小张，最终每人损失了3000多块，总共2万元。
Originally a line of six people to Yunnan Xiaozhang, eventually each lost more than 3000, a total of 20,000 yuan.
“贼坑。
"The thief's hole.
”小张说。
"said Xiao Zhang.
其实，在这坑里的还有和旅行社有关的一连串供应商们，包括航空公司、酒店等。
In fact, in this pit there is a series of suppliers related to travel agencies, including airlines, hotels, etc.
作为靠“天”吃饭的行当，旅游业受疫情影响是显而易见的，整个产业链上没有谁能“全身而退”。
As a "day" food industry, the impact of the epidemic tourism is obvious, the entire industrial chain who can "walk away."
此前有预测认为，2020年春节黄金周，全国旅游总接待人次将达4.5亿，收入超5500亿元。
Previous forecasts put the total number of visitors at 450 million yuan and revenue at 550 billion yuan for the Spring Festival holiday in 2020.
该数据在2019同期分别为4.15亿人次和5139亿元，占全年旅游总收入的7.88%。
The figures for the same period in 2019 were 415 million and 513.9 billion respectively, accounting for 7.88% of total tourism revenue for the year.
就目前来讲，中国旅游业今年很可能呈断崖式下跌。
For now, Chinese tourism is likely to fall off the cliff this year.
对比爆发非典的2003年，国内旅游业的直接损失为1400亿元，加上其对经济的间接影响，总额达2100亿元。
In contrast to the SARS outbreak in 2003, the direct losses of domestic tourism amounted to 140 billion yuan, and its indirect impact on the economy totalled 210 billion yuan.
17年过去，服务业占GDP比重提升了10多个百分点，其中旅游业的综合贡献率也已达11%。
Over the past 17 years, the share of services in GDP has increased by more than 10 percentage points, with tourism accounting for 11 per cent of the total.
疫情过后，藉此谋生的中小企业可能需要不短的时间来缓一缓。
Small and medium-sized enterprises that make a living from the epidemic may need some time to slow down.
贰作为人口聚集型伴有人口流动的服务类产业，旅游、餐饮住宿、仓储邮政、交通运输等受疫情冲击都更为持久，恢复起来也相对缓慢。
Second, as a service industry with population movement, tourism, catering, accommodation, storage, postal services, and transportation are all more enduring and relatively slow to recover.
当年非典疫情高峰期时，铁路、公路、民航客运量各降低了64%、42.2%和75.1%。
At the height of the SARS epidemic, passenger traffic by rail, road and air dropped by 64 percent, 42.2 percent and 75.1 percent, respectively.
2003年的五一黄金周，中国累计航班班次同比下降61.1%，客运量同比下滑81.2%。
During the May Day Golden Week in 2003, the total number of flights in China fell 61.1% year-on-year and passenger volume fell 81.2%.
整个第二季度，我国民航旅客运输量同比下降48.9％，比2002年同期减少旅客约1000万人。
Throughout the second quarter, China's air passenger traffic dropped 48.9 per cent year-on-year, about 10 million fewer passengers than in the same period in 2002.
据当年民航财报，2003年前三季度，中国三大航累计总净亏损达28亿元。
In the first three quarters of 2003, China's three major airlines reported a cumulative net loss of 2.8 billion yuan.
那年，国家免征民航基础设施建设基金23.3亿元，免征营业税、城市维护建设税和教育附加税等14.3亿元。
That year, the state exempted 2.33 billion yuan from the Civil Aviation Infrastructure Fund and 1.43 billion yuan in sales tax, urban maintenance and construction tax and education surcharge.
到年底，航空业缓了过来，国内航线航班量恢复至去年同期水平，国际航线恢复九成。
By the end of the year, the airline industry had slowed down, domestic flights had recovered to the same level as last year, and international routes had recovered 90%.
此次疫情对餐饮的影响或与非典还有所不同。
The impact of the epidemic on food or SARS is also different.
非典的爆发期已是年后4月份，错开了春节的“宴席”时间。
The outbreak of SARS occurred in April, the year after the staggered "banquet" time of the Spring Festival.
2003年5月全国餐饮业零售额359亿元，同比下降15.5%。
Retail sales in the catering sector reached 35.9 billion yuan in May 2003, down 15.5 percent year on year.
之后，疫情得到有效控制，餐饮市场快速反弹。
After the outbreak was effectively controlled, the catering market rebounded rapidly.
但现在的新冠肺炎爆发正值春节假期，各类聚餐、婚宴取消，餐馆停业。
But the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia now coincides with the Spring Festival, all kinds of parties, wedding banquet canceled, restaurants closed.
据商务部数据，2019年除夕至正月初六（2月4日至10日），全国零售和餐饮企业实现销售额约10050亿元。
According to Ministry of Commerce data, between New Year's Eve 2019 and early January 6 (February 4-10), retail and catering enterprises nationwide realized sales of about 105 billion yuan.
毫无疑问，2020年春节，餐饮业的日子不算好过。
There is no doubt that the catering industry will not fare well in 2020.
承受较大损失的还有电影行业。
Also bearing the brunt of the losses is the film industry.
2019年春节档票房58.59亿，占全年票房642.66亿的9%。
In 2019, the Spring Festival holiday box office totaled 5.859 billion, or 9% of the year's $64.266 billion.
2020年，号称“史上最强春节档”的7部电影全部撤档，院线暂停营业。
In 2020, all seven films, dubbed "The Most Powerful Spring Festival ever," were pulled out of the archives and their theaters were suspended.
之后，由徐峥执导的院线电影撤档后改在网络平台免费播放，徐峥及其团队和公司遭多家影视协会联名声讨。
Xu Zheng and his team and company were jointly denounced by several film and television associations.
这被外界视为改变电影行业游戏规则的“背叛”和“不诚信”行为。
This is seen as "betrayal" and "bad faith" in changing the rules of the film industry.
恒大研究院任泽平撰文称，“假定只考虑冲击最大的三个行业，电影票房70亿（市场预测）+餐饮零售5000亿（假设腰斩）+旅游市场5000亿（完全冻结），短短7天，直接经济损失超过1万亿，占2019年一季度GDP21.8万亿的4.6%。
"Assuming that only the three sectors hit hardest are considered, the movie box office sales of $7 billion (market forecast) + catering retail sales of $500 billion (assuming halves) + the tourism market is $500 billion (completely frozen), in just seven days, the direct economic losses exceed $1 trillion, or 4.6% of GDP21.8 trillion in the first quarter of 2019.
”当初非典期间，政策对一些行业多有倾斜，包括对餐饮酒店、旅游娱乐、交通运输等进行部分政府性基金减免，对部分地区和团体给予财政补贴、税收优惠和降息放贷支持等。
During SARS, policies tilted to some sectors, including partial government funds for catering, hotels, tourism, entertainment and transportation, as well as financial subsidies, tax breaks and interest rate cuts for some regions and groups.
企业和经济在疫情后的较快恢复也基本得益于此。
Companies and the economy in the aftermath of the relatively rapid recovery also largely benefited from this.
这次，不少行业也期待着宏观财政的提早关注。
This time, many industries are also looking forward to the early attention of macro-finance.
叁已有多家券商报告分析认为，考虑本次疫情传染性强且叠加春运节点因素，其对第三产业和企业复工的影响会相对较大。
A number of brokers have reported that, considering this epidemic infectious and superimposed spring transport node factors, its impact on the tertiary industry and enterprises will be relatively large.
当然，国家目前的医疗水平、经济承受能力和防控力量也更强。
Of course, the country's current level of health care, affordability and control is stronger.
大致估计，新冠病毒的影响主要集中在一季度，中国经济全年基本面不会受到根本性影响。
The impact of the new cap virus is roughly estimated to be concentrated in the first quarter, with no fundamental impact on the economy's overall fundamentals.
从经济数据看，2003年的非典也只影响到当年二季度经济增速的2%左右，摊到全年约0.4%。
According to economic data, SARS affected only about 2% of the economic growth rate in the second quarter of the year and 0.4% for the whole year.
再考虑非典疫情主要爆发在中国经济核心区北京、广东和香港，而新冠病毒的重灾区目前主要还是武汉乃至整个湖北，其总的经济影响预计会小于非典。
Consider the SARS outbreak in the core of China's economy in Beijing, Guangdong and Hong Kong, while the new-crown virus is still mainly in Wuhan and the entire Hubei, the total economic impact is expected to be smaller than SARS.
接受《新京报》采访时，中国社科院全球宏观经济研究室主任张斌则认为，如果疫情在2月份得到控制，经济活动会重新焕发，二季度经济增速反弹。
Zhang Bin, director of the Center for Global Macroeconomics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said in an interview with the Beijing News that if the outbreak were contained in February, economic activity would revive and economic growth would rebound in the second quarter.
疫情对2020年全年中国经济会有影响，但影响不会太大。
The epidemic will have an impact on China's economy throughout 2020, but not much.
粗略估计，疫情大概会拉低全年GDP增速0.1到0.2个百分点。
Roughly speaking, the epidemic is likely to slow annual GDP growth by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage points.
当下，第一、二、三产业占比分别为7.1%、39%和53.9%。
Today, the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors account for 7.1 per cent, 39 per cent and 53.9 per cent, respectively.
消费在拉动经济增长中占据主导地位。
Consumption plays a dominant role in driving economic growth.
据中国互联网发展报告，2018年，中国数字经济规模31.3万亿元，占GDP比重达34.8%。
According to the China Internet Development Report, China's digital economy reached 31.3 trillion yuan in 2018, accounting for 34.8 per cent of GDP.
一定程度上，经济的数字化转型也能消减疫情的负面影响。
To a certain extent, the digital transformation of the economy can also reduce the negative impact of the epidemic.
“返工潮”伊始，科技企业相继推出远程协同办公方案，视频、游戏、在线教育等互联网产品的需求也都逆势上扬。
"Back to the beginning of the tide," technology companies have launched a long-distance co-work solution, video, games, online education and other Internet products demand has also reversed the trend.
疫情的影响无疑会集中在依赖线下场景的产品与企业。
The impact of the epidemic will no doubt be concentrated on products and businesses that rely on offline scenarios.
像传统培训机构、游学研究机构、学校等依然要很长时间处于歇业状态。
Traditional training institutions, study tours, schools, etc., are still out of business for a long time.
平台型电商的不少前端商家也暂时无法开业，整个供应链和配送环节都面临挑战，尤其对于年前有较多囤货的商家将承担库存积压风险。
Many front-end vendors of the platform-based business are also temporarily unable to open, the entire supply chain and distribution chain are facing challenges, especially for the year before more stocking will bear the risk of inventory backlog.
1月26日，银保监会下发通知，受疫情影响暂无收入群体可合理延后还贷，对于受疫情影响较大的批发零售、住宿餐饮、物流运输、文化旅游等行业，以及有发展前景但暂时受困的企业，不得盲目抽贷、断贷和压贷。
On January 26, the CBRC issued a notice that groups temporarily without income from the epidemic situation may reasonably defer repayment of loans, and that enterprises affected by the epidemic, such as wholesale, retail, accommodation, logistics and cultural tourism, as well as those with development prospects but are temporarily stranded, shall not blindly draw loans, stop lending or take down loans.
之后，数十家房企相继出台租金减免措施。
Since then, dozens of housing enterprises have introduced rent relief measures.
其中，万达商管集团宣布从1月24日至2月25日，对全国323座万达广场里的商户免除租金和物业费。
Among them, Wanda Commercial Management Group announced that from January 24 to February 25, 323 Wanda Square businesses across the country free of rent and property fees.
有业内预计，仅万达总减免金额可达30亿-40亿元。
The industry estimates that the total relief for Wanda alone could be between $3 billion and $4 billion.
可以想见，如果收入和现金流中断，订单合同违约，存货无法销售，再加上人力、房租等刚性成本，极可能会压垮无力抵抗风险的中小企业主，进而出现员工失业再就业问题。
Predictably, if income and cash flow are disrupted, contract contracts are defaulted and inventories cannot be sold, and rigid costs such as manpower and rent are likely to overwhelm small and medium-sized enterprise owners who are unable to resist the risk of unemployment and re-employment.
反过来，上游企业的供应链将受到影响，下游企业及银行的坏账率会增加。
In turn, upstream firms "supply chains will be affected, and downstream firms and banks will have higher bad-loan ratios.
无论当年非典还是此次疫情，对经济的冲击都在所难免。
Whether SARS or this outbreak, the impact on the economy is inevitable.
从长远计，全球性的防御与协作或许也有利于中国尽早结束疫情，修复创痛。
In the long run, global defense and coordination may also help China end the outbreak and repair the pain.
图片购自于图虫创意推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
Photo taken from Toothworm Creative Recommendation Read Solemnly declares that all original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
除了疫情，也该想想经济了。
In addition to the epidemic, it is time to think about the economy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "除了疫情，也该想想经济了";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; besides the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "全球性的防御与协作或许也有利于中国尽早结束疫情，修复创痛。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Global defense and collaboration may also have helped China end the outbreak and repair its wounds as soon as possible.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '武汉“封城”5日，一个1岁孩子妈妈的生活日记',。
At & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '在疫情面前，山东人不要面子了',。
At the face of the epidemic, the Shandong people did not face up to & apos; s service.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '此时，我在湖北襄阳',。
At the time, I was at Xiangyang & apos; in Hubei province.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
