气溶胶传播说法不一，新冠病毒感染率可能为 1%，以及其他 35 条疫情新闻。
Aerosol spread varies, with a possible 1% new crown virus infection rate, as well as 35 other news items.
临时报道小组。
Interim coverage team.
所有的鱼                      。
All the fish.
所有的鱼。
All the fish.
地球被毁灭之前究竟发生了什么？。
What happened before the earth was destroyed?
根据丁香医生实时数据，截至 2020 年 2 月 9 日 18 时，全国累计确诊病例 37286 例，疑似病例 28942 例，新增确诊病例 2692 例，新增疑似病例 3916 例。
According to Dr. Lilac's real-time data, as of 1800 hours on February 9, 2020, there were 37,286 confirmed cases, 28,942 suspected cases, 2,692 new confirmed cases and 3,916 new suspected cases.
其中，重症病例 6188 例，死亡病例 813 例，治愈病例 2837 例。
There were 6,188 serious cases, 813 deaths and 2,837 cured cases.
疫情发展1.气溶胶传播说法不一。
The aerosol propagation theory is different.
2 月 8 日举行的上海市疫情防控工作领导小组新闻发布会，上海市民政局副局长曾群说：“卫生防疫专家告诉我们，目前可以确定的新冠肺炎传播途径主要为直接传播、气溶胶传播和接触传播。
"Health and epidemic prevention experts have told us that the main routes of transmission of the disease are direct transmission, aerosol transmission and contact transmission," Zeng Qun, deputy director of the Shanghai Civil Administration, said at a press conference on Feb.
”但在 9 日上午，国家卫健委新公布了《关于印发新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版 修正版）》。
But on the morning of September 9, the National Health Commission (NCHC) announced a new diagnosis and treatment programme for coronavirus pneumonia (trial version 5).
其中显示，经呼吸道飞沫和接触传播是主要的传播途径。
Transmission via respiratory droplets and contact is shown to be the main route of transmission.
气溶胶和消化道等传播途径“尚待明确”。
The routes of transmission of aerosols and alimentary canal are "yet to be determined."
2.“假阴性”频出，中央指导组专家建议出院应考虑发病时长。
2. "False negative" frequency, the Central Steering Group experts recommended that discharge should take into account the length of illness.
近期多地出现新冠病毒核酸检测“假阴性”情况，即患者本身是新型冠状病毒感染者，但核酸检测报告阴性。
Recently, there have been more cases of "false-negative" detection of Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid), in which patients themselves are newly infected with the virus but have negative nucleic acid tests.
新京报记者梳理发现，为了最大程度防控疫情，相比国家卫健委发布的出院标准，多地已提高出院要求，包括加测粪便核酸检测、延长观察时间等。
In order to prevent and control the epidemic to the greatest extent possible, journalists from the Beijing News have raised discharge requirements, including DNA testing and extended observation time, compared with the discharge standards issued by the State Sanitarium.
新京报采访了中央指导组专家、北京朝阳医院副院长童朝晖。
Beijing News interviewed the central guidance group expert, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital Vice-President Tong Chaohui.
他认为，出院因考虑发病时间，至少要等发病后两周，复查影像、两次阴性再考虑出院，且出院后也应自我隔离，并进行随访。
In his view, discharge from the hospital due to the consideration of the onset of illness, at least two weeks after the onset of illness, review the image, two negative before consideration for discharge, and should also self-isolation after discharge, and follow-up.
3.病毒检测出现“假阴性”，专家建议痊愈者仍隔离 14 天。
3. Virus detection appears to be "false negative," and experts recommend that those recovering remain isolated for 14 days.
中山大学附属第三医院大内科、呼吸专科副主任，广东援鄂医疗队专家周宇麒表示：“医务人员对患者的出院管理确实应该谨慎，我们在临床上是按照《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》的要求，患者不仅要连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性，而且临床症状要明显好转，CT要显示确实没有炎症了才可解除隔离出院。
"Medical staff should be cautious in discharging patients. We should not only test negative for RNA twice in a row, but also show obvious improvement in clinical symptoms," said Zhou Yu-ki, vice-director of department of internal medicine and respiratory specialist at the 3rd Hospital attached to Zhongshan University.
这三项条件缺一不可，基本上能保证患者康复了。
All three conditions are necessary to ensure the patient's recovery.
”同时周宇麒强调，现在医学界对新冠病毒的认识还不够深入，以上出院标准只是基于目前的认识水平，因此为了安全起见，医院通常会让出院患者继续隔离14天，观察体温体感变化；医生对出院患者要进行追踪随访，确保隔离期内病情不出现反复，才算真的痊愈。
Dr Chow also stressed that medical knowledge of the new cap virus was inadequate and the discharge criteria were based on current levels of awareness. For safety reasons, the hospital usually kept patients in isolation for 14 days to observe changes in body temperature.
4.湖北——湖北首次公布各地市新冠疫情病死率。
4. Hubei - Hubei province announces death rate of new crown disease for the first time.
2 月 9 日，湖北省通报最新的新冠病毒肺炎疫情情况，并首次详细统计了省内各地市的病死率。
On February 9, Hubei Province announced the latest outbreak of the new crown virus pneumonia, and for the first time recorded detailed statistics on the fatality rate in all provinces and municipalities.
根据通报，湖北全省累计死亡 780 例，病死率 2.88%。
According to the notice, 780 deaths, or 2.88 per cent, occurred in Hubei province.
根据病死率从高到低，天门市死亡 10 例，病死率最高，为 5.08%，武汉市 608 例，病死率 4.06%，排在第二位。
According to the fatality rate from high to low, Tianmen City 10 cases, the highest fatality rate of 5.08%, Wuhan 608 cases, the fatality rate of 4.06%, ranked second.
5.武汉——武汉精神卫生中心 80 名医患确诊新冠肺炎。
Wuhan - 80 doctors and patients in Wuhan Mental Health Center have been diagnosed with new crown pneumonia.
据微博账号@中国新闻周刊，武汉市精神卫生中心（武汉市心理医院）出现院内感染。
According to Weibo account @ China News Weekly, hospital infection occurred at Wuhan Mental Health Center.
该院为湖北省最大的三甲精神专科医院，据来自该院内部的消息源透露，至少有大约 50 名患者和 30 名医务人员确诊感染了新冠肺炎。
The hospital, the largest in Hubei province, has been confirmed to have contracted pneumonia by at least 50 patients and 30 medical staff, according to sources inside the hospital.
据悉，前期医务人员无防护装备，后期防护装备虽有改善，但至今进入污染区的医务人员仍然没有三级防护装备，只能做到二级防护，面罩等物资紧缺。
It is reported that there is no protective equipment for medical staff in the early stages, although the equipment has improved, but so far into the contaminated area medical personnel still do not have third-level protective equipment, can only achieve secondary protection, masks and other supplies in short supply.
2 月 6 号，该精神卫生中心 ICU 已有一例确诊病人死亡，死者为老年病人。
On February 6, the mental health center ICU had a confirmed case of death of an elderly patient.
6.天津——天津宝坻百货大楼又添确诊病例，隔离近万人。
Tianjin - Tianjin Baodi department store has added to its list of confirmed cases, isolating nearly 10,000 people.
2 月 2 日，天津对外发布 5 名确诊病例信息，称均与宝坻百货大楼相关。
On February 2, Tianjin issued information about five confirmed cases, all related to Baodi department store.
今晨公布的确诊病例中，也有一人与百货大楼相关。
One of the confirmed cases announced this morning was also linked to department stores.
此前，“宝坻百货大楼疫情”中已有 194 名销售人员和 9200 名顾客采取相应隔离措施。
Earlier, 194 salespeople and 9,200 customers were isolated in the Baodi outbreak.
今日发布会上，相关负责人介绍，该时段内到过宝坻百货大楼的顾客增加 2500 人，总数达 11700 人。
In an announcement today, officials said customers who visited Baodi's Department Store during the period increased 2,500, bringing the total to 11,700.
7.西安——肯德基前台确诊新型冠状肺炎。
7. Xi'an - The front office of KFC confirmed a new type of coronary pneumonia.
根据西安市雁塔区新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部办公室通报，在对一名新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者进行流行病学调查追踪时发现：该患者于 2020 年 1 月 12 日乘坐 K1131 次从郑州到西安，到西安火车站后于 16:00—17:00 之间乘坐 5 路公交车到达西北水电家属院 5-2-612。
An epidemiological investigation of a patient with coronavirus-infected pneumonia in Xi'an revealed that on January 12, 2020, the patient travelled on K1131 from Zhengzhou to Xi'an, Xi'an railway station and from 16: 00 to 17: 00 to the Northwest Hydroelectric Home by bus No. 5-2-612.
1 月 13 日下午，前往东仪路职工活动中心，来回乘坐 204/709 路车，电子正街站到电子二路口站，其余时间未外出。
On the afternoon of 13 January, walk to Tung Yi Road Staff Activity Centre, take bus 204 / 709 to and fro. Electronic Centre Street Station to Electronic Second Interchange Station. Remain in place for the rest of the day.
1 月 14 日 22:00—23:00 之间乘坐 5 路从子午路站至紫薇城市花园站。
From 22: 00 to 23: 00 on January 14, take route 5 from Meridian Road Station to Ziwei City Garden Station.
1 月 17—25 日在 KFC 朱雀店（小寨银泰城店）前台打工，主要工作为备餐，工作时间为 10:00—22:00，每天 9:00—10:00 乘坐 214/709 路（电子正街至子午路站），22:00—23:00 之间乘坐 5 路车（子午路至紫薇花园站）返回家中。
January 17-25 at the front desk of the KFC Chu Kee Shop (Yintai Shopping Mall). The main job is to prepare meals. They work from 10: 00 to 22: 00, 9: 00 to 10: 00 daily on Route 214 / 709 (Electronic Centre Street to Meridian Station), and 22: 00 to 23: 00 on Route 5 (Meridian Road to Purple Star Garden Station).
目前该乘客被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊患者。
The passenger is now diagnosed as a confirmed patient with pneumonia for a new coronavirus infection.
未来研判1.牛津大学流行病学教授谈疫情。
Professor of Epidemiology at Oxford University talks about the epidemic.
据《知识分子》专访流行病学专家、牛津大学终身教授陈铮鸣，“要了解武汉地区真实的感染率，除了采用复杂的数学模型预测外，也可利用现有公开的数据进行推算。
According to Chen Shunming, a lifelong professor at Oxford University, an epidemiologist interviewed by Intellectuals, "in addition to complicated mathematical model predictions, one can extrapolate from the available published data to understand the true infection rate in Wuhan.
据报道，在对一千余名各国撤侨者所作的病毒核酸检测发现，感染率约为 1.5%。
Viral nucleic acid testing of more than 1,000 evacuees in various countries reportedly found a rate of infection of about 1.5 per cent.
同样，从浙江温州春节期间来自武汉地区的人数和感染率水平估算，也可得出大致相似的结果。
Similarly, estimates of the number of people and infection levels from Wuhan during the Spring Festival in Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, show roughly similar results.
此外，通过对比武汉与湖北以外地区感染者中的死亡率水平的巨大差异，也可大致推导出武汉地区实际感染人数的低估程度。
In addition, by comparing Wuhan with Hubei area infected with the huge difference in mortality levels, can also roughly derive the actual infection number of Wuhan underestimated.
如按 1.0% - 1.5% 的感染率推算，武汉地区的实际感染人数已接近或超过六位数，远远超过目前报告的人数。
Extrapolating an infection rate of 1.0 per cent to 1.5 per cent, the actual number of infected persons in Wuhan is close to or above six figures, well above the number currently reported.
这也和近期香港学者发表的一份研究报告中所预测的结果相似。
This is similar to what has been predicted in a recent study published by Hong Kong academics.
”2.中南医院临床研究揭示新冠肺炎院内感染高。
"2. A clinical study in Zhongnan Hospital revealed a high incidence of nosocomial pneumonia.
据武汉大学中南医院 2 月 7 日发表在《美国医学会杂志》（The Journal of the American Medical Association）的论文显示，该院从 1 月 1 日至 1 月 28 日收治的 138 名新冠肺炎确诊患者中，约 41.3%的患者属于院内感染，其中 40人（29%）为医护人员，17 人（12.3%）为因其它原因住院的患者。
According to a February 7 paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association by Wuhan University, about 41.3% of the 138 patients admitted to the hospital from January 1 to January 28 were hospitalized, of whom 40 (29%) were paramedics and 17 (12.3%) were hospitalized for other reasons.
这或许与新冠肺炎早期临床症状复杂（如腹痛、腹泻、头晕等非典型症状）有关，这意味着非一线的科室同样面临暴露风险。
This may be related to the complex early clinical symptoms of new crown pneumonia (such as abdominal pain, diarrhea, dizziness, etc.), which means that non-frontline units are also at risk of exposure.
如果早期“警报”拉响及时，医务人员的感染风险可能会不那么严重。
If the early "alarms" are sounded in time, the risk of infection for medical staff may be less serious.
城市防控1.全国生活物资供应平稳。
Urban Prevention and Control 1. The supply of domestic materials is stable.
2 月 9 日，国务院联防联控机制举行新闻发布会。
On 9 February, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a press conference.
国家发改委经贸司副司长陈达表示，全国以及武汉市等重点地区重要生活物资的供应是有保障的，价格预计总体平稳。
Chen Da, deputy director of the National Development and Reform Commission's economic and trade department, said the supply of vital goods was guaranteed nationwide and in key areas such as Wuhan, and prices were expected to remain stable overall.
陈达介绍，从最新监测的数据来看，2 月 8 日，全国 36 个大中城市米面油零售价格与节前基本持平，猪肉价格小幅上涨后趋稳，鸡蛋价格稳中趋降，15 种蔬菜价格比 1 月 30 日高点回落了 10 个百分点。
According to the latest monitoring data, the retail price of rice noodle oil in 36 large and medium-sized cities remained at the same level as before the holiday on Feb. 8, Chen said.
从后期看，全国以及武汉市等重点地区重要生活物资的供应是有保障的，价格预计总体平稳，我们将持续加强监测，对可能出现的个别地区、个别品种的供需矛盾及时予以解决。
In the later stages, the supply of vital goods and materials in key areas such as Wuhan is guaranteed. Prices are expected to remain stable overall. We will continue to strengthen our monitoring and work out the possible contradictions between supply and demand for individual regions and varieties in a timely manner.
2.武汉——两天内检测完武汉所有疑似患者。
WUHAN - All suspected patients in Wuhan were tested within two days.
2 月 8 日，湖北省委书记、省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部指挥长蒋超良称“集中两天时间将全市累积的所有疑似患者检测完毕。
"Concentrate on two days to test all suspected patients accumulated throughout the city," said Jiang Chaolian, secretary of the Hubei Provincial Communist Party and commander of the provincial command for the prevention and control of pneumonia.
”在 2 月 5 日的「肺炎疫情防控指挥部」会议，也称“最晚至 2 月 7 日，完成武汉市所有疑似病例的核酸检测”。
At the February 5 meeting of the Pneumonia Command, also known as "by February 7, nucleic acid testing will be completed for all suspected cases in Wuhan."
目前全国的疑似病例超过 28900 人。
There are currently more than 28,900 suspected cases nationwide.
3.武汉——雷神山医院首批收纳30人。
Wuhan - Lei Shenshan Hospital accepted 30 people in the first batch.
2 月 8 日起，雷神山医院投入使用，专收重症和危重症，规划 1500 床，首批收纳 30 人。
Since February 8, Raytheon Hill Hospital has been in operation, specializing in severe and serious diseases, planning 1,500 beds, the first intake of 30 people.
据「武汉市卫健委」发布的「全市定点医院病床使用情况」，2 月 4 日投入使用的火神山医院目前开放 286 床位，规划 1000 床。
The hospital, which opened on February 4, has 286 beds and plans 1,000 beds, according to the Wuhan Health Commission.
截止 2 月 8 日，武汉定点医院 29 家共开放 9312 床位。
As of February 8, Wuhan Dingdian Hospital 29 open a total of 9,312 beds.
目前武汉按病患轻重分“三级隔离”，定点医院和临时医院为第一级，方舱医院为第二级，征用的酒店、党校、高校为第三级。
At present, Wuhan is divided into three levels according to the severity of patients, designated hospitals and temporary hospitals for the first level, the cabin hospital for the second level, requisitioned hotels, Party schools, colleges and universities for the third level.
4.武汉——武汉大学中南医院全面接管雷神山医院。
4. Wuhan - Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital has taken over the Lui Shenshan Hospital.
据湖北日报消息，9 日下午从武汉大学中南医院获悉，8 日晚开始进驻雷神山医院，全面接管医院。
According to Hubei Daily, the afternoon of 9 from Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital learned that the night of 8 into the Luishen Mountain Hospital, fully take over the hospital.
雷神山医院院长由武汉大学中南医院院长王行环兼任。
Lui Shenshan Hospital director from Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital Wang Xinghuan double-hatted.
据悉，8 日晚，雷神山医院接收首批转诊病人，均入住该院感染一科十六病区。
It is reported that on the night of the 8th, Lei Shenshan Hospital accepted the first referral patients, are admitted to the hospital infection 16 ward.
该病区由武汉市第一医院医疗团队负责。
The disease area is managed by Wuhan First Hospital Medical Team.
与十六病区平行的十五病区，来自省肿瘤医院的医护人员也已进驻。
Medical staff from the provincial oncology hospital have also been stationed in the 15 disease areas parallel to the 16-year-old area.
根据此前计划，雷神山医院由武汉市卫健委组建专班进行管理。
According to the previous plan, Lei Shenshan Hospital by Wuhan Health Commission set up a special class for management.
为便于管理，改由武汉大学中南医院整体接管。
For the convenience of management, by Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital to take over as a whole.
已进驻医疗团队无需撤出，继续在各自病区展开救治工作。
The incoming medical teams did not need to withdraw and continued to provide treatment in their respective areas.
5.武汉——雷神山医院医护缺口巨大。
Wuhan - Lei Shenshan Hospital has a huge gap in medical care.
2 月 9 日，湖北武汉。
9 February, Wuhan, Hubei Province.
中南医院相关负责人表示，目前医院框架已搭起，将着力解决医护缺口较大的问题。
The director of the South China Hospital said the hospital framework has been built, will focus on addressing the large health care gap.
同时将根据临床经验与国家相关指南，保证医院正常运行。
At the same time, based on clinical experience and national guidelines to ensure the normal operation of hospitals.
6.武汉——武汉市全城一天消毒两次。
Wuhan - Wuhan city is disinfected twice a day.
为有效降低新冠肺炎的传播风险，武汉市在全市范围内布置了新冠肺炎防控消毒处置工作。
In order to effectively reduce the risk of transmission of new crown pneumonia Wuhan city has placed the control and disinfection of the new crown pneumonia within the city.
从 9 日开始，武汉市全城开展一天两次的集中消毒。
From the beginning of the 9th, Wuhan city to carry out twice a day centralized disinfection.
根据统一部署，全市每日上午 10 时、下午 4 时左右开展消杀，消杀重点范围是：全市医疗机构、集中隔离点、病家、密切接触者家庭、社区、重点单位（含超市、酒店）、集贸市场、公共厕所、垃圾转运站等。
According to the unified plan, the elimination will be carried out daily at 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. throughout the city. The priority areas for elimination will be: medical institutions, centralized quarantine points, patients, close contact families, communities, key units (including supermarkets, hotels), market markets, public toilets, refuse transfer stations, etc.
7.湖北，十堰——发热主动就诊奖励 1000 元。
7. Hubei, Shiyan - fever active clinic reward 1000 yuan.
湖北十堰房县发布《发热病人就诊奖励办法公告》（第 7 号）发布公告 3 条：1．凡发热人员主动到县乡定点医院发热门诊就诊的，奖励 1000 元。
Hubei Shiyan Fangxian issued a "fever patient clinic reward method notice" (No.7) issued a notice 3: 1.
2．凡乡镇、村、组干部（含工作队、村医）排查发现核实 1 例发热人员的，奖励 500 元。
2. Rewards of 500 yuan shall be given to any township, village or group of cadres (including task forces and village doctors) found to have verified 1 case of fever.
3．凡群众举报发热人员并查实的，每 1 例奖励举报人 500 元。
3. Reward whistle-blower 500 yuan for every case where people report fever and confirm it.
8.无锡——来自湖北、浙江等7省份人员一律劝返。
8. Wuxi - from Hubei, Zhejiang and other seven provinces are all recommended to return.
据无锡发布消息，根据第 7 号《通告》精神，解读如下：来自湖北、浙江、广东、河南、湖南、安徽、江西 7 个省份的人员，一律劝返。
In accordance with the spirit of Circular No. 7, all personnel from seven provinces of Hubei, Zhejiang, Guangdong, Henan, Hunan, Anhui and Jiangxi were advised to return, according to Wuxi News.
9.河南——河南叫停公共场所实习实训。
Henan - Henan has stopped practicing in public places.
2 月 7 日，河南省《关于加强新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控期间学生实习实训管理工作的通知》发布，要求各地各有关学校要高度重视疫情防控期间学生实习实训的管理工作。
On February 7, the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Practical Training for Students during the Prevention and Control of the New Coronavirus Pneumonia was issued in Henan Province.
对因在校外实习实训而暂时无法撤回的师生，各地各校须将其列为重点关注对象，指定专人负责，防止出现“管理盲区”。
For students and teachers who are temporarily unable to withdraw due to their practice outside the school, schools should give priority to them and assign special responsibility to prevent the "blind areas of management."
在疫情持续期间，涉及车站、机场、码头、商超、酒店、展馆等人员密集、流动性强的公共场所的实习，一律停止。
During the period of the epidemic, all internships involving stations, airports, wharves, supermarkets, hotels, exhibition halls and other densely populated and mobile public places were halted.
医疗方案1.「利巴韦林」用量调整。
1. Adjusting the dosage of ribavirin.
2 月 8 日，国家卫健委公布《关于印发新型冠状病毒肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版 修正版）》，「修正版」比 2 月 5 日发布的「试行第五版 」 调整利巴韦林的用量，由“1200 mg/次，8 小时一次”改为“500 mg/次，每日 2 至 3 次静脉输注”。
On February 8, the National Fitness and Health Commission (NCHRC) announced the publication of a trial version of the revised version of coronavirus pneumonia. The revised version adjusts the dosage of ribavirin from "1200 mg / s for 8 hours" to "500 mg / s for 2-3 intravenous infusions per day."
「利巴韦林」为广谱抗病毒药物，药品说明书适应证「呼吸道合胞病毒（RSV）引起的疾病」。
"Ribavirin" is a broad-spectrum anti-viral drug, the drug description for "respiratory syncytial virus (RSV )-induced diseases."
在「丁香园」的分析中，指出「利巴韦林」的使用需注意安全性问题，不良反应主要表现为皮疹等皮肤损害，恶心、呕吐等胃肠道反应，过敏性反应等，以及溶血性贫血。
In the analysis of Lilac Garden, it was pointed out that the use of ribavirin should pay attention to safety problems. The main adverse reactions are skin lesions such as rashes, gastrointestinal reactions such as nausea and vomiting, allergic reactions, and hemolytic anemia.
美国 FDA 妊娠药物分级中利巴韦林为最危险的 X 级，孕妇禁止使用。
Ribavirin is the most dangerous X-rated pregnancy drug in the United States and is banned for pregnant women.
世界卫生组织报告药品不良反应数据库中，有关利巴韦林的不良反应报告共 8600 余例，涉及不良反应 26000 余例次，其中包括胎儿异常。
The WHO database on adverse drug reactions reported more than 8,600 adverse reactions involving ribavirin and more than 26,000 adverse reactions, including fetal abnormalities.
外围影响1.邮轮公司拒绝中国护照登船。
The liner company refused to board the ship with Chinese passport.
全球第二大邮轮公司皇家加勒比（Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.）宣布不再接受持中国内地、香港和澳门护照的旅客登船，挪威邮轮公司等公布类似规定。
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., the world's second-largest cruise company, has announced it will no longer accept passengers with passports from mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao to board ships.
几个月没去往中国的乘客仍被拒绝，引起种族歧视争议。
Passengers who have not been to China for months are still being turned down, sparking controversy over racial discrimination.
2.农业农村部回应武汉养殖业饲料短缺。
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs responded to the shortage of livestock feed in Wuhan.
2 月 9 日，国务院联防联控机制举行新闻发布会。
On 9 February, the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism of the State Council held a press conference.
针对武汉养殖业饲料短缺问题，农业农村部畜牧兽医局副局长孔亮回应说，已协调当地饲料生产企业复产复工，武汉饲料短缺问题正在缓解，将持续关注这一问题。
In response to a shortage of livestock feed in Wuhan, Kong Liang, deputy director of the Livestock and Veterinary Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, responded that local feed producers had been restarted and that the shortage of feed in Wuhan was being alleviated.
3.因发出疫情“不当言论”，中国社会科学院大学解聘教师。
3.The Chinese Academy of Social Sciences dismissed teachers for making "improper remarks" about the outbreak.
2 月 6 日晚，中国社会科学院大学文法学院外聘教师周配仪在微信朋友圈发出如下言论。
February 6 evening, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences University Grammar School of External Teachers Zhou Yi Weixin friends issued the following remarks.
2 月 7 日，中国社会科学院大学文法学院对周配仪发出解聘通知。
February 7, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences University Grammar College issued Zhou Weiyi dismissal notice.
舆论关注1.仙桃民用口罩厂老板谈生产阻力。
Public opinion is concerned 1. Peach civilian mask factory owner talks about production resistance.
湖北仙桃口罩工厂老板通过「财新 FM 」谈生产阻力，原本专做外销，现在面临出口受阻，内销被停业的状态。
Hubei Xiantao mask factory owner through the "new FM" about production resistance, originally dedicated to export, now face export obstacles, domestic sales were suspended.
遇到问题包括材料涨价、员工跳槽或害怕传染不上班以及没有医疗器械证明等。
Problems include rising material prices, employee turnover or fear of infection and lack of medical equipment certification.
「因为外销转内销，国内医疗器械的生产许可证成本很大，就一直没有办，我们又算是无证经营，最近被市场监督局严令要停业……国内口罩定义是医疗器械，但民用属于防护品，本来有民用市场，不需要许可证，但现在必须要证，我们出口的东西都能达到『一次性医用口罩』的标准，但是没有证。
"We have been operating without a license because of the high cost of domestic medical equipment production licenses... Domestic respirators are defined as medical devices, but the civilian use is a protective product, there is a civil market and no license is required, but it must now be proved that all our exports meet the criteria of a disposable medical mask."
很多单位想要我出示检测报告，但不可能每一批找第三方都出示检测报告，这个成本和时间是不允许的」而目前海外客户也质疑疫区情况，考虑从越南购买，未来可能无法再做海外出口。
A lot of units want me to show the test report, but it is impossible to find a third party to show the test report every batch, this cost and time is not allowed, "while overseas customers are also questioning the epidemic situation, considering buying from Vietnam and may not be able to do overseas exports in the future.
2.呼吁将急需救治的非传染性武汉患者异地转诊。
2. Call for the relocation of urgently needed non-communicable Wuhan patients.
中国人民大学清史所学者张宏杰通过微博呼吁，将急需救治的非传染性武汉患者异地转诊。
Zhang Hongjie, a scholar at the Qing Shi Institute of Renmin University of China, called for urgent treatment of non-communicable Wuhan patients.
“我呼吁新冠患者异地转诊，很多人质疑，担心会威胁本地人的安全。
"I call for new crown patients to be referred from one place to another, and many people are sceptical that it could threaten the safety of locals.
那么，这次武汉的疫情也带来了严重的次生灾害。
So, this Wuhan outbreak also brought serious secondary disasters.
很多医院被征用做发热门诊，大量的需透析病人，需要做化疗的癌症病人，以及其他慢性病患者无法得到及时医治。
Many hospitals are requisitioned for fever clinics, large numbers of patients in need of dialysis, cancer patients requiring chemotherapy, and other chronic diseases are not treated in a timely manner.
这些人不在少数，危在旦夕，上天无路入地无门，坐木盆划过长江，也被劝返。
Many of them, desperate and desperate, crossed the Yangtze River in wooden basins and were persuaded to return.
能不能组织力量将他们异地转诊？这些人不会传染吧？对这部分患者不能一封了之，要网开一面给他们一条生路！”3.关于降低核酸检测假阴性的两点建议。
Can you organize a referral? These people are not contagious? You can't send a single letter to this group of patients, just give them a chance to live! 3.
据豆瓣用户@RedRain，“这是我的朋友（美国洛克菲勒大学病毒学副研究员）根据他所收集的信息，基于多年专业经验作出的判断，现在试剂盒依然紧缺，但使用不当会造成浪费和误判，更加延误疫情，所以希望能让更多一线人员和试剂盒生产商看到，哪怕稍稍有所帮助也好。
According to Doubleuser @ Red Rain, "This is my friend (associate virologist at Rockefeller University) judging from years of professional experience that the kit is still in short supply, but misuse can cause waste and misjudgment, further delaying the outbreak, so hopefully more frontline workers and kit manufacturers can see even a little help.
”其中主要提出措施有：进行核酸检验时同步进行阳性对照，以排除操作失误可能性；与试剂盒开发人员保持沟通。
The main measures are: synchronizing positive controls at nucleic acid tests to eliminate the possibility of operational errors; and maintaining communication with kit developers.
4.武汉二氧化硫污染严重引发争议。
Wuhan sulfur dioxide pollution has caused serious disputes.
据豆瓣用户@静悄悄，相关空气质量监测网站给出的武汉瞬时二氧化硫污染物最高达到 1342.27 微克每立方米。
According to Douban @ Quiet, the air quality monitoring site gives Wuhan instantaneous sulfur dioxide pollution of up to 1342.27 micrograms per cubic meter.
造成这一情况的原因可能有工业排放、医疗废弃物焚烧、以及尸体焚烧。
This may be due to industrial emissions, the burning of medical waste and the burning of corpses.
5.河南郑州教育部门家属院拒绝租住的医务人员进入小区。
5. Zhengzhou Education Department of Henan Province refused to let medical staff into the district.
据微博用户@白衣山猫，“昨晚上，河南郑州，教育部门家属院，物业竟然让业主投票表决，决定让不让在他们那租住的医务人员回去住，而且还专门提醒：要抱着为本院负责的态度。
"Last night, in Zhengzhou, Henan province, property owners voted to let the medical staff they rented go back to live," said Weibo user @ White Bobcats.
附图为聊天记录截图！#身边的战疫#投票结果：教研室 46 号院业主一致通过，不准医务人员回去住！”6.四大 ICU 主任详解病毒。
# Voting result: The owner of Institute 46 unanimously approved that medical staff should not go back to live!
来自财新的最新报道，采访四位在武汉一线抗疫的 ICU 主任，披露医院面临的难点以及具体的医疗救治情况。
According to the latest report from Caixin, four directors of ICU who fought against the first line of the epidemic in Wuhan were interviewed, revealing the difficulties faced by the hospital and the specific medical treatment.
7.武汉女生敲击铁腕求助。
Wuhan female students tap an iron fist for help.
据微博用户@isle 民宿，“帮帮他们吧！！！视频来是我小姨拍给我的，这是今天他们小区的真实事件，多处求助无果，她的母亲因感染肺炎没有病床收治，她只能在家敲击铁碗对着邻居喊救命！！！邻居也都帮忙报警，打 120 也还是没有床位。
According to Weibo users @ isle residential accommodation, "Help them!!! Video was taken by my aunt, this is the real incident in their community today, many times no help, her mother because of pneumonia, she had no hospital beds, she had to knock iron bowl at home to call neighbors help!!
谁能体会这种绝望！？？！我们作为同样被隔离的武汉人能做到只有让更多人看到。
Who can experience this despair!??! We as the same isolated Wuhan people can only let more people see.
这样的事情在武汉每天都还在不断的发生。
Such things happen every day in Wuhan.
叩谢大家帮忙转发”8.美国众议院关于冠状病毒肺炎疫情的听证会（一）。
Thank you for your help in forwarding the coronavirus pneumonia. The House of Representatives hearing on the coronavirus pneumonia.
据微博用户@红袖添饭ing，“中国正处在与新型冠状病毒进行全面斗争的前线，医护工作者精疲力竭，检测工具和个人防护用品如面罩、护目镜和手套都严重不足，不得不定量供应。
"China is on the front line of an all-out battle against the new coronavirus, with health care workers exhausted and severely deficient in detection tools and personal protective equipment such as face masks, goggles and gloves," he said.
在这个许多中国人民饱受疾病、焦虑和不确定性折磨的时刻，美国公共卫生人士和医护专业人员主动向中国伸出援助之手并提供人道主义和技术方面的支持是重要的和及时的。
At a time when many Chinese people are suffering from disease, anxiety, and uncertainty, it is important and timely for US public health professionals and health professionals to come forward and offer China a helping hand and provide humanitarian and technical support.
这些支持将鼓舞中国同事的士气，成为医护人员在疫情第一线工作的国际见证者，并有助于为最新抗病毒药物的临床试验提供技术支持。
Such support will boost the morale of Chinese colleagues, serve as international witnesses for health-care workers on the front lines of the epidemic, and help provide technical support for clinical trials of the latest antiviral drugs.
听说美国疾控中心北京办公室近期将组织医疗队，我很受鼓舞。
I am encouraged to hear that the CDC Beijing office will organize medical teams in the near future.
”9.基层工作难度太大特来征集解决方案。
"9. Grass-roots work is too difficult to solicit solutions.
据豆瓣用户@碎骨重生，基层工作面临的困难有：1）如何结局恐慌；2）如何监管返工人员；3）不配合体温检测；4）造谣。
According to Doubane users @ Broken Bone Regeneration, difficulties at the grass-roots level include: 1) how to end panic; 2) how to regulate reworkers; 3) lack of cooperation in temperature testing; and 4) disinformation.
10.希望各级领导慎重考虑一下封小区的决定。
10. It is hoped that leaders at all levels will carefully consider the decision to close the compound.
据微博用户@虎掰掰，“封小区的弊端。
According to Weibo users @ tiger broke apart, "closure of the area of abuse.
首先是间接增加了人群聚集机会，从而加大人传人的概率……其次，如果因为快递人员传染，疫情在社区爆发，原本居家隔离的人相对好排查，只要追踪快递人员的送货轨迹就好；现在“排查难度增加到指数级……对于社区的老人、孩子还小的单亲妈妈、残疾人、慢性病患者来讲，封闭小区无疑是强迫他们走出家门……最后再加一条，每一次被迫出行都会消耗一个口罩……”11.基层镇街机关工作人员对官僚主义和形式主义的质疑。
Second, if an outbreak occurs in a community because of courier transmission, people who were isolated are relatively easy to track as long as the courier's delivery track is tracked... Now the difficulty of checking increases to an exponential level... Finally, every forced trip consumes a mask.
据微博用户@梵如尘已打算孤独终老，“全街道在人手急缺的情况下冒着感染风险顶着群众的白眼咬着牙摸排出来一千多个近期在外市活动过的人员，没见到一个区直市直的真的来帮我们走访，都是来照个照片就走，公众号上看起来倒忙得很，真干活的镇街基层干部和社区工作者根本没空拍照片搞些花里胡哨的宣传。
According to the Weibo users @ Van Buren Dust is ready to die alone, "the streets in a desperate situation at risk of infection under the eyes of the crowd at the risk of more than a thousand people recently campaign, do not see a straight city to help us to visit, do not see a straight look on the public, real work town cadres and community workers have no time for some fancy publicity.
“而且上午一个领导来检查，下午换一个领导来督导。
And a leader comes in the morning and a leader in the afternoon.
领导一来检查督导镇街就得去侯着，走访都走访不过来还得去伺候这些。
When the leader comes to inspect the town street, he has to go to wait, the visit can not come to wait on these.
并且还有暗访组天天问群众我们有没有去摸排走访……一个社区才五六个工作人员，扔进各个小区一点水花都溅不起来……不信我们的话你们自己干成吗？”12.粗暴征用学生宿舍引发争议。
And there is a group of unannounced visits every day to ask the masses if we have gone to visit... a community of only five or six workers, thrown into every community can not splash a bit of water... Do you believe us?
据微博账号@校园资讯君，“有学生吐槽：学校连个通知都没下直接把学生宿舍楼改造成病房……”13.上海小汤山上海公共卫生临床中心扩建。
According to Weibo account @ campus information prince, "there are students spitting: the school did not even notice the transformation of the student dormitory into a ward..."
据网传文件，上海公共卫生临床中心应急救治临时医疗用房项目已经启动。
According to the web file, the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center emergency treatment temporary medical housing project has been launched.
文中所有新闻和消息来源可通过下方链接查看：https://docs.google.com/document/d/17GTHEXYbErM0Qs9dsjlNe9UIp2DeBybLt6aWktXyK1g/edit 《新型冠状病毒肺炎每日疫情播报 2.8》，可复制链接后科6学6上网打开。
All news and sources can be viewed at the following link: https: / / docs.google.com / document / d / 17GTHEXYbErM0Qs9dsjl9UIp2DeBybLt6aWktXyK1g / edit The New Coronavirus Pneumonia Daily Epidemic Report 2.8.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
气溶胶传播说法不一，新冠病毒感染率可能为 1%，以及其他 35 条疫情新闻。
Aerosol spread varies, with a possible 1% new crown virus infection rate, as well as 35 other news items.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "所有的鱼";。
Var nickname = & quot; all the fish & quot;;
var msg_title = "气溶胶传播说法不一，新冠病毒感染率可能为 1%，以及其他 35 条疫情新闻";。
var msg _ title = & quot; AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "我们为你选取了新冠肺炎的当日重要新闻";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; We picked out AT & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
title: '牛津大学流行病学教授：武汉疫情扑朔迷离，何时终了？',。
Professor of Epidemiology at Oxford University: Where and when did Wuhan end?
subject_name: '知识分子',。
subject _ name: & apos; intellectual & apos; & quot; & quot; & apos;
var title ="所有的鱼";。
Valle = & quot; All the fish & quot;;
