不可忽略的数字：急剧增加的密切接触者。
Numbers that cannot be ignored: the number of close contacts has increased dramatically.
童兰。
Pamela.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
记者 | 童兰截至2月3日24时，新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情目前已经导致了425人死亡和20438例确诊感染，而且仍在不断攀升。
As of 2400 hours February 3, the new coronavirus pneumonia has killed 425 people and infected 20,438, and is still rising.
作为最易感染的人群之一，密切接触者追踪力度的加强和人数的增长，暗示了未来感染人数增加的压力。
As one of the most vulnerable populations, increased tracking by close contacts and an increase in the number of people suggests the pressure for an increase in future infections.
随着检测手段效率的提升，新型冠状病毒肺炎的确诊人数也与日俱增，这也带来了湖北省和全国范围密切接触者人数的急剧攀升。
With the improvement of the detection efficiency, the number of patients diagnosed with the new coronavirus pneumonia is also increasing, which has led to a sharp rise in the number of people in close contact in Hubei Province and throughout the country.
另一方面，各地政府针对本地和外来人口管理排查的力度加强后，也让更多密切接触者被追溯到，这有效提升了疫情的防控效率，防止了疫情的进一步扩散。
On the other hand, the increased efforts of local governments to monitor the management of local and foreign populations have led to the tracing of more close contacts, which has effectively increased the efficiency of the epidemic's prevention and control and prevented its further spread.
密切接触者的追踪难度大第一财经记者统计了自1月20日钟南山院士在武汉调研后宣布新型冠状病毒会人传人以来，累计追踪的密切接触者数量的变化发现，与新增疑似病例相比，密切接触者的数量增长更快，截至2月2日，全国累计追踪的密切接触者的数量已经达到163844人，自1月28日以来的5天内，每天的新增的密切接触者人数都超过2.3万人。
Since the announcement of the new coronavirus from person to person in Wuhan on January 20 by academician Zhong Nan Shan, the number of close contacts tracked has increased even faster than that of new suspected cases. As of February 2, the number of close contacts tracked nationwide had reached 163,844.
而截至2月2日，全国累计疑似病例的数量还不到2万人。
As of February 2, the total number of suspected cases nationwide was less than 20,000.
随着对密切接触者的追溯，疑似病例的数量恐怕还会出现明显的增长。
It is feared that the number of suspected cases will increase significantly as close contacts are traced.
而从重点地区湖北省的数据来看，截至2月2日，湖北省累计追踪的密切接触者的人数达到48571人，而最近5天内，湖北省每天新增的密切接触者人数都在6000人左右。
As of February 2, the number of close contacts tracked by Hubei Province totaled 48,571, while in the past five days, the number of new people in close contact with each day in Hubei Province was around 6,000.
除了密切接触者以外，正在进行医学观察的人数也不容忽视。
In addition to close contacts, the number of people under medical observation cannot be ignored.
截至2月2日，全国正在接受医学观察的人数达到137594人，近5日每天的新增医学观察人数也都超过2万人，要明显多于解除医学观察的人数。
As of February 2, the number of people under medical observation nationwide had reached 137,594, and the number of new medical observations each day on the past five days exceeded 20,000, a marked increase over the previous five years.
另外截至2月2日，湖北省正在接受医学观察的人数为43121人，更值得注意的是，湖北省卫健委自1月27日以来，就没有再公布解除医学观察的人数，也就是说，每天接受医学观察的人数都在增长。
Meanwhile, as of February 2, the number of people undergoing medical observation in Hubei Province was 43,121, and even more noteworthy is that the number of people released from medical observation has not been announced since January 27 in Hubei Province, which means that the number of people receiving medical observation every day is increasing.
从密切接触者的追踪人数和正在接受医学观察的人数来看，目前疫情防控的局势仍然非常严峻。
Judging by the number of close contacts and the number of people under medical observation, the current situation of epidemic prevention and control is still very serious.
尤其是对于密切接触者的追踪，是目前疫情防控中面临的最大挑战。
In particular, the tracking of close contacts is currently the greatest challenge in disease prevention and control.
而这部分密切接触者人群将影响未来疫情的发展趋势。
And this part of close contact with the population will affect the trend of future epidemic.
另外，家庭式的聚集性感染的现象在这次疫情中尤其突出。
In addition, the phenomenon of family-type concentrated infections is particularly acute in this epidemic.
权威医学杂志《柳叶刀》1月24日在线发表的一篇论文就针对一个七口之家的肺炎感染进行研究，结果显示，在最近去过武汉的5名家庭成员中发现了新型冠状病毒感染，同时在另一个并未同行的家庭成员中也发现了同样的病毒。
A paper published online on January 24 by the leading medical journal Lancet found that a new coronavirus infection was found in five family members who had recently visited Wuhan, as well as in another family member who had not been on the same team.
只有一个孩子常戴口罩的孩子未被感染，而且另一名被感染的孩子并未表现出临床症状。
Only one child with a regular mask was not infected, and another infected child showed no clinical symptoms.
这份研究首次揭示了无症状感染的风险，提示携带者可能在不知道自己被感染状态的情况下在社区内传播疾病。
The study is the first to reveal the risk of asymptomatic infection, suggesting that carriers may spread the disease in their communities without knowing they are infected.
在美国的首例新型冠状病毒人传人案例中，也是一位从武汉回芝加哥的美国妇女，在被确诊感染后不到一周，他的丈夫也相继被确诊感染，这暗示了潜伏期的感染几率也非常高。
In the first case of human-to-human transmission of the coronavirus, an American woman returning from Wuhan to Chicago was diagnosed less than a week after the infection was diagnosed, suggesting that the incubation period is also very high.
但密切接触者的追踪挑战很大。
Tracing by close contacts is challenging, however.
“密切接触者的追踪非常重要，这能有效提升疫情的防控效率，但也有难度。
"Close contact tracing is important to improve the effectiveness of epidemic prevention and control, but it is also difficult.
”日内瓦大学全球公共卫生研究院主任Antoine Flahault对第一财经记者表示，“我们现在比较容易追踪到的是已经疑似感染的密切接触者，或者表现出临床症状的这些接触者。
Antoine Flahault, director of the Graduate Institute of Global Public Health at the University of Geneva, told leading financial reporters: "We are now more able to track people in close contact who are suspected to be infected, or who are showing clinical symptoms.
但是还有一些密切接触者可能接触了自己都不知道被病毒感染的人，这些人又如何去追踪呢？”安排专人排查是目前最有效途径1月27日，国家卫健委疾控局一级巡视员贺青华在新闻发布会上表示：“密切接触者管理要加强。
But there are also close contacts who may be in contact with people they do not know are infected with the virus, and how do they track it down? "He Qinghua, the first-class inspector at the State Institutes of Health and Physical Fitness, told a news conference.
随着越来越多确诊病例和疑似病例被诊断，他们的密切接触者数量也在急剧增加，其追踪管理压力不断增大。
As more and more confirmed cases and suspected cases are diagnosed, their number of close contacts is also increasing dramatically, with increasing pressure on their tracking management.
”贺青华指出，密切接触者的管理重点在社区，各级医疗卫生机构将加强与社区的配合，规范开展病例流行病学调查，科学判定密切接触者，同时积极指导社区做好新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情的发现、防控和应急处理，有效落实密切接触者的排查等措施，做到无缝对接。
He pointed out that the management of close contacts is focused on the community. Health institutions at all levels will strengthen cooperation with the community, standardize case epidemiological investigation, determine close contacts scientifically, and actively guide the community in the detection, prevention and emergency treatment of the pneumonia epidemic of the new coronavirus infection.
在1月30日世卫组织的新闻发布会上，世卫组织总干事谭德塞也表示，世卫组织已经派出专家驻湖北的疫情暴发中心，并将采取更多措施，在追溯密切接触者的方法上给出建议。
At a WHO press conference on 30 January, WHO Director-General Thant also said that WHO had sent experts to the Hubei outbreak centre and would take additional measures to advise on ways to track close contacts.
“要隔离传染源、切断传播途径、保护易感人群，这是现在政府集中精力做的三件事情。
"Isolating the source of infection, cutting off transmission routes and protecting key populations are three things the government is now focusing on.
”一位上海某三甲医院一位从事免疫研究的专家对第一财经记者表示，“凡是跟确诊病例有密切接触的人，自我隔离两周，不发病就好，发病及时就医。
"Anyone who is in close contact with a confirmed case and isolates himself for two weeks without getting sick is good," a Shanghai-based expert working on immunization told the first financial reporter.
”不过专家表示，对密切接触者的追踪，目前只能靠发动社区的力量，落实密切接触者居家医学观察措施，每日随访密切接触者的健康状况，一旦发现情况及时启动排查、诊断、隔离治疗等程序，并做好病人的隔离控制和转送定点医院等准备工作。
However, experts say close contacts can only be tracked by mobilizing the community, implementing close contacts' home medical observation measures, following up on the health of close contacts on a daily basis, initiating timely screening, diagnosis and isolation procedures, and preparing patients for isolation and referral to designated hospitals.
“这是一个非常复杂的工作，但是目前也没有其他办法，只有安排专人去询问那些与确诊病人和潜在感染人群接触过的人。
"It's a very complex job, but there's no other way to do it right now than to ask people who have come into contact with confirmed and potentially infected people," he said.
”澳大利亚悉尼大学一位研究全球公共卫生安全的教授Adam Kamradt Scott对第一财经记者表示，“这需要互动和问问题，并且取得这些密切接触者的信任，让他们放松，只有人与人之间的试探和测试这种老办法才是有效的。
Adam Kamradt Scott, a professor of global public health security at the University of Sydney in Australia, told leading financial reporters: "This requires interaction and questions, and gaining the trust of these close contacts to relax them.
”Kamradt Scott教授表示，人工智能和机器人等新技术目前并不能够取代专人对密切接触者的访问，而人脸识别技术就算应用再广，也无法达到对密切接触者追根溯源的目的。
Professor Kamradt said new technologies such as artificial intelligence and robotics were not currently able to replace personal access to close contacts, and that face recognition technology, however widely used, would not be able to trace its roots to close contacts.
本文文字版权归第一财经所有，未经授权许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to the first financial company and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
不可忽略的数字：急剧增加的密切接触者。
Numbers that cannot be ignored: the number of close contacts has increased dramatically.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "不可忽略的数字：急剧增加的密切接触者";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; not negligible: Rise & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "作为最易感染的人群之一，密切接触者追踪力度的加强和人数的增长，暗示了未来感染人数增加的压力。
var msg _ desc = & quot; as one of the most vulnerable people, increased contact tracing and increased numbers suggests pressure for an increase in future infections.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
