特别报道 | “失踪”的口罩和红十字会“黑洞”。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; The Missing Mask and Red Cross Black Hole.
郭苏妍 叶雨晨等。
Yan Guo Ye Yuchen and so on.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
什么拉长了社会捐赠物资从红十字会的仓库到疫情一线医务人员手中的最后短暂的路程？又是谁夺走了医生上战场的武器？记者 |郭苏妍叶雨晨邓舒夏王一越编辑 | 张云亭制图 |程 星2月1日，中国红十字总会工作组赶赴湖北武汉，指导湖北省红十字会、武汉市红十字会做好捐赠款物的接收使用管理工作，确保捐赠款物使用规范高效、公开透明，主动接受社会监督。
What lengthens the last short journey for donations from Red Cross warehouses to front-line medical personnel? Who stole doctors' weapons from the battlefield? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
在此之前，作为武汉最早一批新冠肺炎定点收治医院，武汉协和医院已经连续多日对外表示医疗物资不够用了。
Before that, Wuhan as the first batch of fixed-point hospitals for new crown pneumonia, Wuhan Concorde Hospital has for many days indicated that medical supplies were insufficient.
1月30日，一个叫“协和医生Do先生”的微博账号发文称武汉协和医院的物资即将用尽请求社会支援，他在发文中强调“不是告急，是没有了”。
On January 30, a Weibo account named "Mr. Do, a Concorde doctor," wrote that Wuhan Concorde Hospital was running out of supplies and asked for social support.
31日，该医院另一名医生刘伟再次因“一线防护用品奇缺”而发微博求助。
On March 31, another doctor at the hospital, Liu Wei, again asked for help with a tweet because of the "acute shortage of first-line protective equipment."
公众随后将目光转移到湖北省红十字会官网于1月29日披露的一份捐赠物资使用情况表。
The public then turned their attention to a table showing the use of donated materials that Hubei Red Cross official website revealed on January 29.
这份统计清单显示，在其总共发放的24.5万个口罩中，流向武汉协和医院的一共只有3000个未标注型号的口罩，而被媒体称为“莆田系医院”的武汉仁爱医院分到了1.8万个标注为KN95型号的口罩。
The list showed that of the 245,000 face masks distributed, only 3,000 had gone to Wuhan Heping Hospital, which the media called Putian Department Hospital, and 18,000 had been marked KN95.
针对红十字会分配效率与分配公平性的质疑与批评声迅速发酵。
The doubts and criticisms about the efficiency and fairness of distribution of the Red Cross Society ferment rapidly.
《第一财经》YiMagazine在联系武汉协和医院求证时，该院物资联络人表示1月31日下午已经与武汉市红十字会沟通，但仍未与湖北省红十字会取得有效联系，也尚不清楚对方只向协和医院发放3000个口罩的原因。
When contacted by First Finance Yi Magazine, the hospital's material contacts said they had communicated with the Wuhan Red Cross Society on the afternoon of January 31, but still had no effective contact with the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province.
“按理说定向捐赠给协和医院的物资应该直接寄到医院，但实际上需要捐款人跟医院联系以后，我们再去红十字会领取。
"We should have delivered the targeted donation to Concorde directly to the hospital, but we needed the donor to contact the hospital before we could get it from the Red Cross," he said.
货太多了可能存在找不到的情况，我们也不清楚是不是存在他人冒领，而且也不是每个捐赠者都会直接跟协和医院联系。
There are too many items that can't be found, we don't know if there is someone else pretending, and not every donor will contact Concorde directly.
红十字会的工作流程和工作机制我们也不是非常清楚。
We are also not very clear about the working processes and mechanisms of the Red Cross.
”他表示。
'he said.
当天晚上在社交媒体上广泛流传的一个视频显示，在位于武汉市汉阳区国博中心A馆的武汉市红十字会物资接收仓门口，来自湖北省武汉市、黄冈市、咸宁市等地区的医院相关人士均在现场焦急地等待提取物资。
A video widely circulated on social media that night showed hospital-related people from Wuhan, Huanggang and Xianning, Hubei province, waiting anxiously to retrieve supplies at the entrance to the Wuhan Red Cross material receiving warehouse at the A Pavilion of the Guobo Center in Hanyang District, Wuhan City.
据视频拍摄者了解，现场负责物资发放的工作人员仅根据手中的“物资调配表”发放物资，不在这份“调配表”上的医院及机构想要”提货“则需要自行与卫健部门取得联系。
According to the video filmmaker, the staff in charge of the distribution of materials on the scene will only distribute the materials according to the "material deployment schedule" in hand.
许多来到现场的医院相关人士只好空手而归。
Many hospital-related people who came to the scene had to return empty handed.
位于武汉市汉阳区国博中心A馆的武汉市红十字会物资接收仓。
Wuhan Red Cross material receiving warehouse is located in A Pavilion of Guobo Center Hanyang District Wuhan City.
| 图片来源：湖北省红十字会官网前一天晚上，“医院持介绍信到武汉红十字会仓库自行领取物资”的消息在社交媒体上流传，但武汉红十字会很快向媒体否认此事，并表示所有医疗物资的分配和发放是在武汉市抗击新型肺炎疫情防控指挥部的统一协调下，根据各医疗单位的实际使用需求统一分配。
http: / / www.Hubei Red Cross official website The news of hospitals carrying letters of introduction to Wuhan Red Cross warehouses to collect their own supplies circulated on social media last night, but the Wuhan Red Cross quickly denied the allegations, saying that all medical supplies were distributed and distributed under the unified coordination of Wuhan's New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command, according to actual needs.
分配权并不在红十字会。
The distribution is not in the Red Cross.
但湖北省疫情防控指挥部的一名工作人员很快否认了这一说法。
But a staff member of the Hubei Provincial Command of Disease Control quickly denied the claim.
他在31日接受媒体采访时称，疫情指挥部并不统一负责分配，只审核和批准三家定点机构的分配方案，也未曾修改或驳回湖北省红十字会上报的分配方案。
He told the media on the 31st, said that the epidemic command is not responsible for distribution, only review and approve the distribution of the three designated agencies, nor has the Hubei Red Cross revised or rejected the distribution plan reported.
同时，其所在的社会捐赠组并未收到此前湖北省红十字会披露的捐赠物质使用情况表中关于仁爱医院、天佑医院的口罩分配报告，具体分配情况“要问红十字会”。
At the same time, its social donation group did not receive the previous Hubei Red Cross disclosed in the use of donated materials on the hospital, Tianyou Hospital, the distribution of masks, "to ask the Red Cross.
2月1日，湖北省红十字会官网公布关于捐赠物资分配有关情况的说明。
On February 1, the official website of the Red Cross Society of Hubei Province issued a note on the distribution of donated materials.
真假难辨的说法、缺乏可信度的官方声明、不透明的捐赠物资去向公示、混乱迟滞的物资分配和发放流程，都在这个社会所有成员都在尽最大努力避免疫情进一步恶化扩散的当口，把整个流程中极为关键一环的红十字会推上了风口浪尖。
False claims, official statements that lack credibility, opaque disclosure of donated materials, and chaotic distribution and distribution processes have brought the Red Cross, a vital part of the process, to the fore at a time when all members of society are doing their utmost to prevent further spread of the epidemic.
而武汉市红十字会常务副会长陈耘则在1月29日对媒体表示“对网上的骂声感到委屈”。
Wuhan Red Cross Standing Vice-President Chen Zoo said on January 29 to the media "feel aggrieved by the online abuse."
到底是什么拉长了社会捐赠物资从红十字会的仓库到疫情一线医务人员手中的最后短暂的路程？又是谁夺走了医生上战场的武器？绕不开的红十字会1月26日，民政部发文，指定湖北省红十字会、湖北省慈善总会、湖北省青少年发展基金会、武汉市慈善总会、武汉市红十字会作为武汉疫情捐赠物资的接收单位，除定向捐赠外，原则上服从湖北省、武汉市等地肺炎防控指挥部的统一调配。
The Ministry of Civil Affairs on January 26 sent a letter designating the Hubei Red Cross Society, Hubei Provincial Charitable Association, Hubei Provincial Youth Development Foundation, Wuhan Municipal Charity Association and Wuhan City Red Cross Society as recipients of Wuhan Donation Materials.
1月27日晚，湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防疫工作例行新闻发布会。
On the night of January 27, a routine press conference was held to prevent pneumonia due to a new coronavirus infection in Hubei Province.
湖北省委副书记、武汉市委书记马国强强调，所有捐赠的物资一定要通过红十字会，以保证捐赠物资和资金的使用能够及时准确登记在案，统一归口，避免在疫情防疫防治过程中，由于混乱被人钻空子。
The Deputy Secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee, Wuhan Municipal Party Secretary Ma Guoqiang, stressed that all donated materials must go through the Red Cross to ensure that the use of donated materials and funds can be timely and accurately registered, unified unified, to avoid the epidemic prevention process, because of chaos was exploited.
即便在明确接收单位的情况下，“钻空子”的情况也频频发生。
Even in the case of clear receiving units, the "drilling" situation also occurs frequently.
一位不愿具名的志愿者告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine，有的人冒充医院相关人员去劫物资，被发现了就说自己是红十字会的。
One volunteer, who declined to be named, told First Finance Yi Magazine that people posing as hospital-related personnel were robbing supplies and were found saying they belonged to the Red Cross.
“政府让红十字会来统管合乎情理，但问题是如何有效地把几十吨上百吨的物资扑到一线去。
"It makes sense for the government to put the Red Cross in charge, but the problem is how effectively to get tens of tons of supplies into the front line.
”他说，“有些捐赠者的物资到达以后要通过各种关系才能拿出货给到当地医院，还有一些志愿者有私心，常常会给自己本区的医院多分一些物资。
"Some donors have to work through relationships to get things out to local hospitals," he said. "Other volunteers are selfish and often give more supplies to hospitals in their area.
”所有捐赠物资都要通过红十字会的初衷是为了避免混乱，但看起来，新的混乱并未减少。
All donations go through the Red Cross in an effort to avoid confusion, but it seems that the new chaos has not abated.
1月31日凌晨，世界卫生组织总干事谭德塞宣布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情构成“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”，这个在2002年至2003年非典疫情过后才被创造出来的名词表明了事态的严重程度。
In the early morning hours of January 31, WHO Director-General Edgar Tan announced that the pneumonia outbreak from a new coronavirus infection constituted a "public health emergency of international concern," a term coined after the SARS epidemic of 2002-03.
但非典时期的主要疫区城市里并没有武汉以及湖北省的其他城市，在应对突发性的公共卫生事件时，当地是缺乏应对经验的——北京、上海、广州、香港均在非典疫情过后总结出一套自己的应对防控方案，并对医疗体系作出调整。
However, Wuhan and other cities in Hubei Province were not among the major epidemic-stricken cities in the SARS period, and there was a lack of local experience in dealing with sudden public health eventsBeijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hong Kong all formulated their own prevention and control plans after the SARS epidemic and adjusted their healthcare systems.
1月31日凌晨，世界卫生组织宣布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情构成“国际关注的突发公共卫生事件”。
January 31, the World Health Organization announced that the new coronavirus infection of pneumonia constitutes a "public health emergency of international concern."
这也是让陈耘和武汉市红十字会感到“委屈”的地方。
This is also let Chen and Wuhan Red Cross feel "aggrieved" place.
武汉市红十字会只有10名工作人员，而湖北省红十字会也只有20多个人，人手非常紧张。
The Wuhan Red Cross has only 10 staff members, while the Hubei Red Cross has only 20 or so.
如果不是统计局安排了三十多个人来专门负责物资的清点登记，“一个人变成十个人也忙不过来”。
Had it not been for the fact that the Bureau of Statistics had arranged for more than thirty people to take charge of the inventory, "one man would not have become ten."
而目前的情势已经让整个红十字会处在超负荷运转的状态。
The current situation has left the entire Red Cross overloaded.
1月24日，武汉市红十字会面向社会征集50名志愿者，接听电话增加到16部，24小时轮流转岗。
On January 24, the Wuhan Red Cross Society solicited 50 volunteers from society, and the number of calls increased to 16, with 24-hour shifts.
加上市红十字会原本的11名工作人员，一共有大约60名工作人员被分配到接听电话组、接收物资组、物资储备组、物资发放组和后勤保障组。
Together with the original 11 staff of the City Red Cross, a total of approximately 60 staff members were assigned to the telephone, receiving, material reserve, material distribution and logistics support teams.
某红十字会后备志愿者向《第一财经》YiMagazine透露，截止到31日晚，志愿者后备人员超过了280名，但大多数志愿者仅经过短暂的培训就迅速上岗，工作中的混乱无法避免。
A Red Cross back-up volunteer told First Finance Yi Magazine that by the night of the 31st, the volunteer pool had exceeded 280, but most volunteers were on the job quickly after only a short training session and confusion was inevitable.
《第一财经》YiMagazine在1月31日下午致电武汉市红十字会时，对方也表示自己是下午刚到的志愿者，对许多关于物资分配、捐赠明细公示及更正等情况并不清楚，只能对接捐赠事宜。
First Finance Yi Magazine called Wuhan Red Cross on the afternoon of January 31 and said he was a volunteer who had just arrived in the afternoon.
帮助企业对接物资的志愿者刘武华正在协调一批由非洲塞内加尔华人捐赠的医疗物资，他描述一次面向湖北省医疗机构的捐赠流程大致是这样：捐赠人在联系慈善总会后，对方会安排一名志愿者去做对应的服务，包括填写表格、建群联系、确认物资等环节。
Liu Wuhua, a volunteer who helps companies dock supplies, is coordinating a donation of medical supplies to hospitals in Africa and Senegal. He describes a donation process for medical institutions in Hubei Province.
捐赠人将物资从机场发回国，过完海关以后直接送达湖北省慈善总会，再由总会分拨给红十字会按照各大医院的需求分配调度。
The donor sends the goods from the airport back to China. After passing through customs, they are delivered directly to the Hubei Charitable Association, which allots them to the Red Cross for distribution according to the needs of major hospitals.
定向捐赠的捐赠者则需要提前联系相关医院，明确赠与物资与数量，列出明细清单，紧接着再由医院自己的志愿者拿着“敲过医院公章的证明文件”，去找红十字会审批核实物资的捐赠人和捐赠对象，同时慈善总会也会出具相对应的证明。
Donors who make targeted donations need to contact the hospital in advance, specify the material and quantity of the donation, make a detailed list and then go to the Red Cross for the approval of the donor and the recipient of the material, with the corresponding certificate from the General Association of Philanthropy.
完整地走完这个流程，医院才能比较顺利地把货拿出来。
Complete this process, the hospital can more smoothly out of the goods.
此外，陈耘曾表示，如果是定向捐赠，在事先告知红会，并形成文字性的正式捐赠手续之后，可以“把货直接发给受捐单位”，这也出现在《武汉市红十字会对社会公告第六号》文件中。
In addition, Chen Zhuan has said that if the donation is targeted, after informing the Red Cross Council in advance and forming a formal donation procedure of a written nature, it can "send the goods directly to the recipient," according to Wuhan Red Cross Society Notice No. 6.
但至于为什么有大量通过中国邮政、顺丰走医疗物资绿色通道运入湖北省的货物最终是由红十字会签收，却并未及时发放给定向医院，武汉协和医院的物资联络人也感到十分困惑，表示“仍需要继续沟通了解情况”，而红十字会方面则至今尚未就此作出正式回应。
But as for why a large number of goods brought into Hubei province through China Post and Shunfeng Green Channel of Medical Materials were finally signed by the Red Cross but not delivered to the targeted hospitals in time, the material contacts at Wuhan Xianghe Hospital were puzzled, saying "there is still a need for further information" and the Red Cross has yet to respond formally.
在被临时征用为仓库的武汉国际博览中心A馆，堆积着大量社会捐赠的物资。
Wuhan International Expo Center A, temporarily requisitioned as a warehouse, has a large stock of materials donated by society.
武汉市常务副市长胡亚波解释称，其中除了部分物资是定点捐赠的以外，还有相当一部分不符合医用标准。
Wuhan Deputy Mayor Hu Yapo explained that in addition to some of the materials are targeted donation, but also a considerable number of medical standards do not meet.
不过，某新冠肺炎定点收治医院的徐姓医生告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine，“我们也会收到核查下来不符合医用标准的口罩，比如过滤标准达到了但是带呼吸阀，这些口罩不是完全不可以用，应急情况下非一线非重症的医院工作人员也可以佩戴。
"We will also receive masks that have been verified as not meeting medical standards, such as filtration standards but with respirators, which are not completely unusable and can be worn by non-first-line non-critical hospital staff in emergency situations," Dr. Xu of a designated hospital for newly-reported pneumonia told First Finance
”这就是为何红十字会成为本次民间物资运输的舆论中心。
That is why the Red Cross has become the centre of public opinion about civilian shipments.
一方面当前武汉“封城封路”，物资运送往往需要红十字会及接收单位同时开具证明。
On the one hand, Wuhan "sealed the road," the delivery of materials often need the Red Cross and receiving units issued at the same time certificate.
这样的政策是为了防止不合格的物资蒙混过关，或者口罩以捐赠的名义流入市场销售，但同时也降低了民间捐助的效率；另一方面海外捐赠物资入境需要红十字会的接收才能减免关税，否则物资的总成本将远超市场价。
Such a policy is designed to prevent substandard goods from being muddled or masks from being sold on the market in the name of donations, but also reducing the efficiency of private donations. On the other hand, donations from abroad require the Red Cross to accept them before the total cost of goods exceeds the market price.
但其本身运作模式的低效不但让许多捐赠人意识到，自己的物资即便合格也无法及时到达医院手里，更重要的是，它似乎不能公正地分配物资到更急需的医院手中。
But the inefficiency of its own mode of operation not only makes many donors realize that even qualified supplies do not reach hospitals in time, but, more important, it does not seem to distribute supplies fairly to hospitals that need them more.
据某基金会资深工作人员陈羽介绍，2008年汶川地震的早期也发生了许多资源浪费，但中后期就学习了经验。
According to Chen Yu, a senior staff member of a foundation, many resources were wasted in the early phase of the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008.
在大灾难面前，重要的是建立网络，比如防控指挥部、红十字会、卫健委、医院之间建立数据对接，而防控指挥部、志愿者与民间机构之间也要建立信息对接。
In the face of a major disaster, it is important to establish networks, such as a data interface between the command for control, the Red Cross, health-care commissions and hospitals, and an information interface between control commands, volunteers and civil society institutions.
此外，那时的民间社会组织可以通过挂靠腾讯公益、壹基金等来筹款捐赠进入汶川。
In addition, at that time, civil society organizations can rely on Tencent public welfare, a fund to raise funds to donate into Wenchuan.
“区别在于目前的武汉被封城了，志愿者无法前往现场建立数据对接，湖北本地的社会组织也不够发达。
"The difference is that Wuhan is now closed, volunteers can not go to the scene to establish data docking, Hubei local social organizations are not sufficiently developed.
而因为指定了接收捐赠的机构，腾讯等慈善企业无法挂靠筹款，民间物资很难有渠道送达疫区。
Tencent and other charities are unable to rely on fund-raising because they have designated institutions to receive donations, making it difficult for private goods to reach affected areas.
”他向《第一财经》YiMagazine解释说，“湖北慈善总会如果跟本土的社会组织形成合作，形成物流调配也许可行，但传染病性质的疫情在调动更多人参与时需要去对这种风险做评估。
He explained to First Finance Yi Magazine, "It may be feasible for Hubei Charities to form a logistics alliance with local social organizations, but an epidemic of infectious disease needs to be assessed when more people are involved."
而官僚系统内就会有顾虑，这是官员决策时缺乏担当的表现。
And there are concerns within the bureaucracy, a lack of accountability in official decision-making.
”自2001年5月，湖北省红十字会由省卫生厅代管改为省政府分管领导联系。
Since May 2001, the Hubei Red Cross Society has changed from being in charge of provincial health offices to being in charge of provincial government leadership.
绕过红十字会1月23日是一个关键转折点，武汉正式“封城”。
Bypassing the Red Cross January 23 was a crucial turning point when Wuhan officially "closed the city."
这是非典时期也没有执行过的紧急措施，许多民间爱心人士以及海外华人华侨开始真正意识到“事情可能比非典更严重”。
It was an emergency measure that was not implemented during SARS and many Chinese living abroad began to realize that "things may be worse than SARS."
此外，这也意味着，如果在封城之前未做好充足的交通运输备选方案，它将会变成后续民间物资运输的主要问题所在。
In addition, it means that if adequate transport options are not in place before the closure of the city, it will become a major problem in the follow-up of civilian shipments.
“封城后，政府对进出武汉的车辆把控很严，不能随意进出城，这导致外面的物资进不来，今早我们去送口罩的时候，很多医疗单位已经没有口罩了。
"After the closure, the government imposed strict controls on vehicles entering and leaving Wuhan, which prevented outside supplies from entering the city. When we went to deliver masks this morning, many medical units were no longer wearing masks.
”李青曾于1月25日告诉《第一财经》YiMagazine。
Li Qing told First Finance Yi Magazine on January 25.
他是武汉一家零售公司的供应商，拥有自己的车队，当地疫情严重后，李青除了向武汉运送水果、蔬菜等商品，还自掏腰包购买口罩、防护服等物资，捐往武汉和周边城市的医院。
He is a supplier of a Wuhan retail company and owns his own caravan. Besides shipping fruits and vegetables to Wuhan after the outbreak, Li Qing paid for masks and protective clothing from his own pocket and donated them to hospitals in Wuhan and surrounding cities.
后来李青也帮助一些企业将捐赠的物资送达医院。
Later, Li Qing also helped some enterprises to send donated materials to the hospital.
至于为什么没有选择将物资给到红十字会，李青的回答是“红十字会没有那么多工作人员去配送的，这是突发事件，他们的人员有限。
As to why he did not choose to send supplies to the Red Cross, Li answered, "The Red Cross does not have so many staff to deliver, it is an emergency, their staff is limited.
”李青所在的自发捐赠的小群体成员只有不到10个人，因为不是企业所以没有公章。
His small group of unsolicited donations has fewer than 10 members because it is not a business and therefore does not have an official seal.
他有一批口罩打算捐赠给社区卫生服务站，运送目的地有40多个地方，而他和这些社区服务站之间只有电话联系，“等实地跑一遍收集齐了章，恐怕都到下个月了。
He had a batch of masks to donate to the community health service stations, which had more than 40 destinations, and he had only telephone contact with them. "By the time the field trip was complete, I was afraid it would all be next month.
”李青对《第一财经》YiMagazine说。
"Li Qing told First Finance Yi Magazine.
要把这批物资从仙桃市运出到武汉，李青需要接收单位提供盖章的接收条。
To ship the goods from Xian Dao City to Wuhan, Li Qing needs the receiving unit to provide sealed receipt slips.
“实际上对方收到物资后都会给我们提供接收函或者收条，而前期就让对方盖章太麻烦了，有的医院也不一定愿意承担这个风险。
"In fact, the other side will receive the goods will provide us with a letter or receipt, and let the other side stamp too troublesome, some hospitals may not be willing to take the risk.
”李青不明白为什么政府不能通融，让他把物资送达后再来补齐证明，“非要前期去纠结这个事儿。
"Li Qing did not understand why the government could not accommodate him to deliver the goods and then come back to complete the proof," the matter must be prematurely tangled.
”但最终，李青还是集齐了接收单位证明，顺利将物资送了出去。
But in the end, Li Qing gathered together the receiving unit to certify that the goods had been delivered smoothly.
另一个同样遇到这个问题的志愿团队则通过“其他方式”将物资顺利运出，对方称不方便透露具体的操作方式，只感叹道“蒙混过关了，像做贼似的。
Another volunteer team, which also had problems with the problem, shipped the goods "by other means," saying it was not convenient to reveal the exact mode of operation, and lamenting that "it was like being a thief.
”一些企业在决定捐赠医疗物资时也会尝试避开红十字会“中转”以提高效率。
Some companies also try to avoid Red Cross "transit" when deciding to donate medical supplies to improve efficiency.
石磊为其所在的公司在7天之内采购到了几十万只口罩，并提前通过多个渠道与相关部门打好招呼，寻找愿意前往湖北“有去无回”的物流人员运输货物，将这批完全符合医用标准的物资送到了湖北省内仅次于武汉市的疫情重灾区黄冈，接收单位是黄冈市疫情防护中心。
Mr. Shi procured hundreds of thousands of masks for his company within seven days, and prematurely contacted authorities through multiple channels to find logistics personnel willing to travel to Hubei Province to "no return," and sent the full medical standard to Huanggang, the worst-hit area in Huanggang province after Wuhan.
“从找口罩到找物流再到找接收单位，并确保每一步都能按部就班，这个过程非常辛苦。
"From finding a mask to finding logistics to finding a recipient, and making sure every step is on track, it's a very hard process.
7天时间，我和我的同事打了超过1000个电话。
In seven days, my colleagues and I made more than 1,000 calls.
”石磊对《第一财经》YiMagazine说，“现在去往湖北的物流，去一个少一个，因为到达湖北返程后就要直接隔离14天，司机本身也存在感染风险，’有去无回’的，特别悲壮。
'Now the logistics to Hubei is less than one, because the driver himself is at risk of infection for 14 days after his return journey to Hubei, 'he told First Finance.
”刘亚出于对透明度和运作效率的不信任没有考虑通过红十字会来向各个城市的医疗系统输送医疗物资，她从1月23日开始在俄罗斯采购符合医用标准的3M N95医用级别的口罩以及符合欧洲标准FFP2、FFP3的口罩。
"Mistrust of transparency and efficiency has prevented Liu from considering sending medical supplies to the health-care system in cities through the Red Cross, and since January 23 she has been buying 3M N95 medical-grade masks that meet medical standards in Russia, as well as masks that meet European standards for FFP2 and FFP3.
“之前没有预料到疫情会到这种程度，更没有预料到医疗物资会瞬间短缺。
"It was not anticipated that this would be the case, much less that medical supplies would be in short supply."
”刘亚是上海俄尚贸易有限公司中俄国际物流部负责人，了解跨境物流的相关流程和手续，为了加快医疗物资到达医护人员手中的速度，她一边用私人资金全款垫付采购医疗物资的费用，一边安排物资发回，并通过自己的人脉圈寻找理想的接收单位。
"Liu, head of the China-Russia International Logistics Department at Shanghai-Russia Trade Co., Ltd., understands the procedures and formalities involved in cross-border logistics.
寻找物资和接收单位都是极其耗费心力的工作。
Finding material and receiving units is extremely labour-intensive.
国内和俄罗斯存在五个小时的时差，俄罗斯当地的工作节奏较慢，确认每个订单都需要大量的时间和精力。
With a five-hour time difference between home and Russia, and a slower pace of work on the ground in Russia, it takes a lot of time and effort to confirm each order.
“作为口罩行业的外行人，为了确保采购的口罩都是合格的，我做了非常多的功课和比对筛选，以及俄汉英三语翻译的工作。
"As an outsider in the mask industry, I did a lot of homework and screening to make sure the masks were properly purchased," he says.
”刘亚对《第一财经》YiMagazine说，在寻找对疫区有捐赠意向的企业以及慈善机构来接收口罩的过程中，她还碰到了许多想拿货转手卖掉的商家，“没什么办法能让这些困难变得容易一点，只是看看武汉那些医生的照片和视频，看看确诊人数的增长数字，除了继续找，别无他法。
Ms. Liu told First Finance Yi Magazine that as she searched for companies and charities looking for donations to affected areas to receive masks, she encountered many vendors who wanted to resell their wares. "There's nothing to make it easier, just look at the pictures and videos of Wuhan doctors to see how the number of confirmed cases is growing.
”截至1月31日，她一共向国内运送了超过5万个口罩，还有10万个不同型号的口罩订单已经下单等待交货，接收单位包括浙江疾控中心、狮子会上海分部以及部分上海市内医院等。
As of January 31, she had shipped more than 50,000 masks to China, and orders for 100,000 different types of masks had been placed for delivery, including from Zhejiang CDC, the Lion's Shanghai branch and some Shanghai-based hospitals.
一次医疗物资从采购付款、提货发出、再空运到达国内的时间，一般在3天左右，海关绿色通道开启后，整个流程变得更快了。
The time it takes for a medical item to arrive in the country by purchase payment, pick-up and re-airlift usually takes about three days, and the whole process becomes faster when the customs green channel opens.
为了让医疗机构和接收单位能够及时确认物资的资质，刘亚在采购时还会要求厂家和供货商提供包括医疗证等在内的所有相关证件，因为俄罗斯做公证件需要2-3天耗时太久，她就在俄罗斯当地找了拥有俄汉翻译家资质（直接为公证处翻译文件资质）的朋友，及时将相关文件翻译好中俄对应版本，以免在接收过程中发生时间损耗。
In order to enable medical institutions and receiving units to promptly verify the quality of the materials, Liu will also request manufacturers and suppliers to provide all relevant documents, including medical certificates, because Russia takes two to three days to produce official documents.
对“透明度”的不信任，同样存在于民间捐助。
Distrust of "transparency" is also present in private donations.
起初李青加入了许多大大小小的民间捐助群，但最后都退群了，只对接自己团队的资源。
At first Li Qing joined a large and small group of private donors, but in the end they all retired and docked only the resources of their own team.
“觉得（大群）很复杂，不如几个朋友做点力所能及的事情。
"It's a lot more complicated than having a few friends do what you can.
”他曾在一个捐助群中看到，有人冒充厂家添加武汉某医院工作人员微信，称看到了医院物资短缺的求助公告，告知医生自己的厂子目前还有2000个符合标准的口罩，售价1元1个，问医院是否愿意购买。
He saw people posing as manufacturers adding letters from staff at a Wuhan hospital saying they had seen calls for help from hospitals that they were short of supplies, and telling doctors their factories still had 2,000 standard masks for $1 a mask and asked if hospitals would buy them.
在得知医院“目前只以接受捐赠为主”后，厂商称自己可以捐助500个，但是自己也要找人去配送，向医院索要车费油费200元，并提供自己的支付宝收款码，收款后就删除了医院工作人员的微信。
After learning that hospitals "only accept donations for the time being," the company said it could donate 500, but it had to find its own delivery, ask the hospital for 200 yuan for fuel and bus fares, and provide its own paycheck code.
杨志新是多个武汉捐助群的群主，曾看到过一个西雅图留学生包机运送物资到武汉的消息，在他看来这很可能是一个假消息——包机需要至少300万人民币，并且需要征得机场的同意，办理手续就需要至少15天的时间，但现在机场没有接收到这方面的信息。
Yang Zhixin, the head of a group of Wuhan donors who saw a Seattle-based student charter flight carrying supplies to Wuhan, appears likely to be false: charter flights would require at least Rmb3m and airport approval, which would take at least 15 days to process, but no information has been received at the airport.
“我们验证不到这个信息也不敢信，但不排除之后对方可自证。
"We can't verify this information and we can't believe it, but we don't rule it out.
留学生圈子里资源背景关系通天的人很多，可能他们有特殊手段。
There are a lot of people in the international student community with a strong background in resources. Maybe they have special skills.
”杨志新说。
'he said.
许多明星的后援会粉丝团甚至都表现出了极高的执行能力，从发起捐款到筹集物资并定向输送的过程都会由这些自发群体全程把控。
Many star-studded aid groups have even demonstrated a high level of execution, from the initiation of donations to the collection and targeting of supplies.
一个由吴亦凡粉丝组成的名叫“吴亦凡梦想行走团”的50人规模的公益团体就成功向湖北省咸宁市结核病防治院捐赠了10万双丁腈手套，从1月23日开始筹划到1月27日物资到达医院，一共只花了4天时间。
Wu Yifan, a 50-member charity called Wu Yifan Mission, donated 100,000 pairs of butyronitrile gloves to the TB Prevention and Control Institute in Xianning, Hubei Province, in a four-day period from the start of planning on January 23 to the arrival of supplies at the hospital on January 27.
据该公益团成员毛儿介绍，团队在跟湖北咸宁的志愿者取得联系后，首先与接收医院提前沟通了其计划采购的丁腈手套是否符合医用标准，在得到确认的答复后，就开始动用一切力量采购物资、查询可以通行的途经高速、寻找能去往咸宁的物流，与志愿者沟通协助引导司机在疫区外卸货，然后将物资交由志愿者来负责完成到医院的交接。
After contacting volunteers in Xianning, Hubei province, the team first contacted the receiving hospital to find out if the nitrile gloves they planned to purchase conformed to medical standards. After receiving the reply, the team started to use all its efforts to procure supplies, check the available routes, find logistics to Xianning, communicate with volunteers to help guide the drivers to unload the goods outside the epidemic area, and then hand over the materials to volunteers to complete the handover.
毛儿表示下周三左右，还会有一批德国的3M 8810型号及FFP2和FFP3标准的口罩空运过来。
Around Wednesday, Mao said, a further shipment of German 3M 8810 and FFP2 and FFP3-standard masks will be flown in.
虽然民间组织作为多渠道运送物资目前看来是一种高效的方式，但更多问题仍然在于捐赠信息的难辨真假、各路关卡放行、医院需求信息的对接等问题，因此，哪怕是民间力量，也需要一个有力的协调平台。
While civil society organizations currently appear to be an efficient way of delivering goods through multiple channels, more problems remain with the difficulty of distinguishing between genuine and false information on donations, the clearance of roadblocks and the docking of information on hospital needs, so that even civilian forces need a strong coordination platform.
但湖北疫情防控指挥部与红十字会显然目前还无暇顾及民间力量的层面，事实上，对于物资如何高效、公正地分配，都还没有更多的解决方案。
But it is clear that the Hubei Outbreak Control Command and the Red Cross have no time for civilian power. In fact, there are no more solutions for the efficient and fair distribution of supplies.
1月31日晚间的湖北新冠肺炎疫情新闻发布会上，武汉市政府党组成员李强公布武汉市红十字会截至1月30日共接收到27笔社会捐赠的防疫急需物资，大类有口罩9316箱，防护服74122套，护目镜80456个，还有其他的药品和医疗器械。
At a news conference on the night of January 31, Li Qiang, a member of the Wuhan government's Communist Party, announced that the Wuhan Red Cross had received 27 urgent epidemic prevention supplies as of January 30, with 9,316 cases of masks, 74122 suits of protective clothing, 80,456 goggles and other medicines and medical devices.
他在回应医院物资仍存在较大缺口的问题时表示，原因是多方面的，一是消耗量大于供应量，二是红十字会在官网发布了急需物资，但是捐赠物资和急需物资从品种、型号和标准，不是很好对应。
Responding to the continuing problem of large gaps in hospital supplies, he said that the reasons were multiple: consumption was greater than supply, and the Red Cross had issued much-needed supplies on the official website, but the variety, type and standard of donated and urgently needed materials did not match well.
此外，工作中也存在周转不够快、调拨不够及时等问题，需要不断改进。
In addition, there were problems of insufficient turnover and timely redeployment, which required continuous improvement.
某网友称，通过民间组织捐赠给宜昌市中心医院的物资到达武汉红十字会仓库后迟迟不分配，最后不得不经支援组织者发出律师函才让物资继续前进。
A netizen said that materials donated to the central hospital in Yichang City by non-governmental organizations were not distributed until after they arrived at the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse.
过去一周之内，全国海关共验放进境口罩5622.8万个，防护服73.8万件。
In the past week, China's customs authorities detected 5.6228 million entry masks and 0.738 million protective suits.
但前期所有的加快速度往往都卡在了红十字会向后分发的这一环，而红十字会也没有厘清手续齐全和疫情防控两者之间的优先级。
But all the early acceleration is often stuck in the back-of-the-way distribution of the Red Cross, which has yet to clarify the priorities between proper procedures and disease control.
从红十字会跟疫情防控指挥部之间的相互推诿和职责不明可以看出，作为物资分配平台，自身内部的权责分配工作还未完成。
As a platform for material distribution, the distribution of responsibilities within the organization has not yet been completed, as demonstrated by the shifting of responsibilities and accountabilities between the Red Cross and the Directorate of Disease Control and Prevention.
而政府调配物资在这场全民关注的公共卫生突发事件中的失语，其实才是整件事情背后更大的信息不透明。
But the government allocates the material in this public health emergency's aphasia, in fact, is the whole affair behind the greater information opaque.
财政部紧急下拨了10亿元补助资金支持湖北疫情防控，并临时征用了全国范围内的所有具备正规资质的口罩、护目镜、防护服等医疗物资生产工厂，统一调配物资分发，但疫情发源地及重灾区武汉乃至整个湖北省的大大小小的医院至今仍旧普遍缺乏医用口罩、防护服等一系列物资，第一批被划入肺炎治疗定点医院的武汉协和医院的医生仍然需要不断借助社交媒体向外发声求助。
The Ministry of Finance allocated 1 billion yuan in emergency funding to support the prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Province, and temporarily requisitioned all factories producing medical materials such as masks, goggles, protective clothing and other medical supplies throughout the country.
“医院向社会求助看起来是很奇怪的，这种时候按理说应该是国家负责统筹物资，评估医院需求，有缺口就及时补上，因为政府一定比民间更高效。
"It seems odd for hospitals to turn to the community for help, when it is supposed to be the responsibility of the state to pool supplies, assess hospital needs and fill gaps in time, because the government must be more efficient than the people.
社会NGO应该介入的其实是那些无法评估的、需要社会组织来介入的地方，比如环卫工人和快递员等问题。
Social NGOs should be involved in areas that cannot be evaluated and that require the involvement of social organizations, such as sanitation workers and couriers.
”陈羽说。
"said Chen Yu.
2月1日凌晨，武汉红十字会在其官方微博“博爱江城”上公布了截止到1月30日的最新物资发放清单，清单显示其对包括金银潭医院、肺科医院、汉口医院在内的重点收治新冠肺炎病人的医院均分配了医用口罩、护目镜、医用手套等在内一系列医疗物资，但当前短缺的医用口罩以“件”计数，并未明确公示具体数量，与此同时，始终在疫情一线医疗物资多次宣布告急的协和医院依然并未出现在这份清单上。
In the early morning hours of Feb. 1, Wuhan Red Cross issued an updated list of medical supplies, including masks, goggles and gloves, on its official microblog Fraternité Jiangcheng as of January 30. However, the shortage of medical masks has not been clearly announced, while Concorde Hospital, which has repeatedly declared emergency medical supplies, is still not on the list.
2020年1月30日武汉市红十字会发放物资一览表。
List of materials issued by Wuhan Red Cross Society on January 30, 2020.
| 图片来源：武汉红十字会官方微博财联社最早曝光，武汉新冠肺炎防控指挥部已指派湖北九州通医药集团，赴被临时征用为红十字会仓库的武汉汉阳国博中心分装医疗防护物资。
The Wuhan Red Cross official Weibo-Fin Association first came to light, and Wuhan's New Crown Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command has assigned Hubei Kyushu Tong Medical Group to separately pack medical protective materials at Wuhan Hanyang National Exhibition Center, which has been temporarily requisitioned as a Red Cross warehouse.
然后，九州通相关人士向《每日经济新闻》记者解释，“因为物资比较多，这个主要是协助红十字会妥善管理物资，并不负责后续的分发配送。
Then, Kyushu-related sources told the Daily Economic News: "Because of the large amount of material, this is mainly to help the Red Cross to properly manage the material and not to be responsible for subsequent distribution.
”（应采访对象要求，文中李青、杨志新、陈羽为化名。
(At the request of the interviewee, Li Qing, Yang Zhixin and Chen Yu are aliases.
）本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
) This copyright belongs to First Finance and may not be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | “失踪”的口罩和红十字会“黑洞”。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; The Missing Mask and Red Cross Black Hole.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | “失踪”的口罩和红十字会“黑洞”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; special report & # 124; & # 45; & # 44; missing masks; and the Red Cross & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "什么拉长了社会捐赠物资从红十字会的仓库到疫情一线医务人员手中的最后短暂的路程？又是谁夺走了医生上战场的武器？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; What lengthened the last short journey for social donations from Red Cross warehouses to frontline medical personnel? Who took doctors' weapons from the battlefield?
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
