特别报道 | 疾控中心无辜吗？。
Special Report # 124; Is the CDC innocent?
肖文杰 许冰清。
Xiao Wenjie Xu Bingqing.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
记者 | 肖文杰、许冰清编辑 | 陈 锐1月30日发表于《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM)的一篇关于新冠病毒的论文将中国国家疾控中心变成舆论焦点。
Chen Rui's January 30 paper on the new crown virus, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, turned China's National CDC into a focus of public opinion.
这篇论文名为《新型冠状病毒感染肺炎在中国武汉的初期传播动力学》，由中国国家疾控中心领衔，包括湖北省疾控中心、香港大学等十几个机构的专业人员共同完成。
This paper, entitled "Early Transmission Dynamics of New Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia in Wuhan, China," is led by the China National CDC and includes professionals from more than a dozen institutions, including the CDC in Hubei Province and the University of Hong Kong.
首先想强调一点，这篇论文有一个重要的结论被忽略了。
First of all, I would like to stress that one important conclusion of this paper has been ignored.
根据截至1月22日的最早425例确诊病例数据，作者认为，每例患者平均将感染传给了另外2.2人。
On the basis of data from the earliest 425 confirmed cases as of January 22, the authors concluded that each patient passed the infection on average to another 2.2 people.
一般而言，只要R0大于1，疫情就会不断加剧，而疾病控制措施的目标是将再生数降低至1以下。
In general, outbreaks increase as long as R0 is greater than 1, and disease control measures aim to reduce the number of rebirths below 1.
《新英格兰医学杂志》中文版NEJM医学前沿在发表论文的中文译本时表示，随着疾控措施的不断加强，有理由相信目前的R0小于2.2。
The New England Journal of Medicine, in its Chinese translation of the paper, said there was reason to believe that the current R0 was less than 2.2 as the disease control effort intensified.
R0，是一个数学术语，医学上可表示传染病的传染性，也被称为繁殖数字。
R0, a mathematical term used to describe the infectious nature of an infectious disease, is also known as a reproductive number.
R0值表现当一个传染病到了一个人身上之后，平均能传染给其他多少人。
R0 indicates how many people, on average, can be infected when an infection has struck one person.
其中被传染的人指没有被感染过，没有接种过相关疫苗的人。
Infected people are those who have not been infected and have not been vaccinated against the disease.
此外，这篇论文引起的最大争议是，疾控中心科学家们，没有第一时间把他们的发现公开，使得疫情防控措施滞后。
Moreover, the most controversial aspect of the paper is that CDC scientists did not have the first time to make their findings public, leaving disease control measures behind.
事后，国家疾控中心主任高福、副主任同时也是论文作者之一的冯子健各自都接受了媒体采访，对外表达的核心观点有二：1、论文所用数据截至1月22日，且结论为流行病学回顾性研究调查，并非临床诊断；2、国家疾控中心并未瞒报数据。
After the event, Gao Fuk, deputy director and one of the paper's authors, were interviewed by the media. 1. The data used in the paper was as of January 22 and the conclusion was a retrospective epidemiological study, not a clinical diagnosis; 2, the CDC did not conceal the data.
从目前所知的公开信息仍无法推断疾控中心是何时明确“人传人”这一重要病毒特征以及将它何时、如何上报给国家卫健委，如无意外，该时间线将永远是个黑盒子。
It is still impossible to deduce from publicly available information when the CDC identified the "human-to-human" virus as an important viral trait and when and how it should be reported to the NCHRC, and, if not, the timeline would remain a black box.
但我们仍可以通过追问一些问题去接近真相。
But we can still get to the truth by asking a few questions.
比如，当面临这类紧急发生的公共卫生事件，一个国家的疾病控制系统是如何运作的？疾病相关信息又会如何流转？疾控中心究竟在其中有哪些权责以及扮演什么角色？《第一财经》YiMagazine采访了中国疾控中心原副主任杨功焕教授。
For example, how does a country's disease-control system work in the face of such emergent public-health events? How does disease-related information flow? What are CDC's responsibilities and roles? First Finance Yi Magazine interviewed Professor Yeung Kwok-hwan, former deputy director of China CDC.
2003年SARS疫情之后，她主管并负责建立了全国范围的传染病网络直报系统。
After the SARS epidemic in 2003, she was in charge and responsible for setting up a nationwide system of direct reporting of infectious disease networks.
她从机制的角度给出了她的答案。
She gave her answer from a mechanistic point of view.
同时，我们也从这篇备受关注的论文以及疾控中心的公开回复中提炼了核心事实。
At the same time, we distilled the core facts from this high-profile paper and the CDC's public response.
多方参照之后，相信愿意思考的读者可以得出相对明确的判断。
After many references, I believe that willing readers can draw a relatively clear judgement.
01疾控中心是个什么机构？中国疾病预防控制中心即CDC(Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention)，是一个隶属于卫健委、由国家财政全额拨款的事业单位。
What is CDC? The CDC, the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, is an institution under the Health and Wellness Commission and fully funded by the state.
监测传染病的发生、实施流行病学调查、搜集信息、分析预测、为防治决策提供科学依据、参与处理重大疫情和突发公共卫生事件，这些都属于它的职责。
It is its responsibility to monitor the occurrence of infectious diseases, carry out epidemiological investigations, gather information, analyse predictions, provide the scientific basis for decision-making in the fight against infectious diseases and participate in the management of major outbreaks of disease and public health emergencies.
国家、省市、区县，都有各级的疾控中心，隶属于各级卫健委，地方的疾控中心主要向当地的卫健委和政府汇报。
At the national, provincial, district and county levels, there are disease control centers at all levels, which are subordinate to the respective committees.
中国的疾控体系始于1953年的卫生防疫体系。
China's disease control system began in 1953 with the health and epidemic prevention system.
2002年，“中国疾病预防控制中心”正式成立。
In 2002, the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was formally established.
2003年的“非典”疫情暴露出我国疾控体系的一些薄弱环节，在此后的反思过程中形成了原卫生部第40号部长令《关于疾病预防控制体系建设的若干规定》，规定按国家级、省级、市级和县级四级设立疾病预防控制机构。
The 2003 SARS epidemic exposed some weak points in China's disease control system, and in the course of subsequent reflection, the former Ministry of Health Ministerial Decree No. 40, "Provisions for the establishment of disease prevention and control systems," provided for the establishment of disease prevention and control agencies at the national, provincial, municipal and county levels.
核心事实举例而言，湖北省、武汉市疾控中心分别为湖北省、武汉市卫生健康委委员会直属事业单位。
For example, the CDC in Hubei and Wuhan are directly affiliated institutions of Hubei and Wuhan Municipal Health and Wellness Commissions.
对于武汉市疾控中心这一市级疾控机构而言，其主要职责包括“组织开展本地疾病爆发调查处理和报告”，以及“指导辖区内医疗卫生机构传染病防治工作”。
For Wuhan CDC, a city-level CDC, its main responsibilities include "organizing the investigation, handling and reporting of local outbreaks" and "guiding the prevention and control of infectious diseases in health institutions within their jurisdiction."
02CDC如何发现新出现的传染病病例？从2003年SARS疫情之后，疾控中心开始建立一套覆盖所有医院乃至基层卫生中心的中国疾病预防控制信息系统。
Since the SARS epidemic in 2003, the CDC has started to set up an information system for disease prevention and control covering all hospitals and even primary health centers in China.
简单而言，各地医院的医生发现传染病案例，根据规定，就要通过网络系统直接上传这一病例，一旦上传，根据权限，各级疾控中心都可以看到这个病例。
In a nutshell, doctors in hospitals around the world find cases of infectious diseases that are uploaded directly through a network system and, once uploaded, can be seen at all levels of the CDC, in accordance with the terms of reference.
所谓权限，就是每个地区的疾控中心可以看到本地的疫情——就是所谓的直报系统。
The so-called authority, that is, the CDC in each region can see the local epidemic - the so-called direct reporting system.
这套系统中也设置了针对不明原因肺炎PUE（Pneumonia ofUnknown Etiology）的直报。
The system also has a direct newspaper for Pneumonia of Unknown Etiology.
截至2011年年底，该系统已覆盖全国100％的疾控机构、98％的县级及以上医疗卫生机构和88％的乡镇卫生院。
By the end of 2011, the system had reached 100 per cent of the country's disease control units, 98 per cent of district-level and above health-care facilities and 88 per cent of township hospitals.
核心事实病例信息将经历大致如下的报告流程：首诊医生或其它执行职务的人员负责填写报告卡（并按要求电话报告）——疫情管理人员收卡、登记——疫情管理人员完成网络直报。
The core fact sheet information will go through the following reporting process: the first visit physician or other person performing executive duties is responsible for filling out the report card (and reporting by telephone as required) - receiving and registering the outbreak manager - and completing the network direct report.
不同级别的传染病，报告时限要求不同。
Reporting time frames vary for different levels of infectious disease.
在1月20日前，新型冠状病毒肺炎未被确认为“法定传染病”，《传染病防治法》对这一类情况的报告时效没有明确规定，但一般需要在24小时内报告。
Prior to January 20, the new coronavirus pneumonia was not recognized as a "statutory infectious disease," and the time limit for reporting such cases under the Communicable Disease Prevention and Control Act was not specified.
病例通过报告进入疾控信息系统的最大前提，还在于首诊医生的医学判断。
The biggest premise of the case entering the CDC information system through the report also lies in the first doctor's medical judgment.
以被列入“甲级传染病”、实行主动监测的鼠疫为例：2019年，中国内蒙古地区曾有肺鼠疫患者于10月25日发病，但早期诊疗中曾被反复误诊为“大叶性肺炎”，此后转诊至北京；直到11月11日，其患鼠疫的确诊信息才由北京市疾控中心做出。
Consider bubonic plague, which is classified as a "Class A infectious disease" and is under active surveillance: In 2019, a case of pneumonic plague occurred in Inner Mongolia on October 25, but was misdiagnosed repeatedly as "lobar pneumonia" in the early stages of treatment and then referred to Beijing.
此后，内蒙古自治区成立了应急领导小组，严查鼠疫疫情。
Since then, the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region has established an emergency leadership team to rigorously investigate the plague epidemic.
02什么是PUE直报？“不明原因肺炎”（PUE）是SARS事件后，原卫生部为了更好地筛查及处理可能出现的SARS、人禽流感等其他传染性呼吸道疾病而提出的一个词。
What is PUE Direct Newspaper Unknown Causes of Pneumonia (PUE) is a term coined by the former Ministry of Health to better screen for and deal with other infectious respiratory diseases such as SARS and human avian influenza.
PUE直报为前述中国疾病预防控制信息系统的功能之一，它的触发有一定的条件。
PUE is one of the functions of the aforementioned information system of disease prevention and control in China.
当出现符合设定条件的病症时，医院需要上报不明原因肺炎的病例。
Hospitals are required to report cases of unexplained pneumonia when conditions are met.
杨功焕教授表示，中国疾控中心有一组人专门监测该系统，每天写分析报告。
Prof Yeung says a team from the CDC specializes in monitoring the system and writing analytical reports on a daily basis.
核心事实并非所有不能明确诊断的肺炎都能被称为“不明原因肺炎”，“不明原因肺炎”的定义包括以下4条：(1)发热(腋下体温≥38℃)；(2) 具有肺炎的影像学特征；(3)发病早期白细胞总数降低或正常，或淋巴细胞分类计数减少；(4)经规范抗菌药物治疗3-5 天，病情无明显改善或呈进行性加重。
The core fact is that not all cases of undiagnosed pneumonia can be described as "unexplained pneumonia." Unexplained pneumonia is defined as 1) fever (armpit temperature at 38 ° C); 2) imaging features of pneumonia; (3) reduced or normal leukocyte counts or reduced lymphocyte count in the early stages of onset; and 4) no significant improvement or progressive aggravation of the disease after 3-5 days of standard antimicrobial therapy.
目前按照规定，发现符合“不明原因肺炎”定义的病例后，医疗机构要在12小时内组织本单位专家组进行会诊和排查。
At present, following the discovery of a case falling within the definition of "unspecified pneumonia," medical organizations are required to organize consultation and checkup by their own expert group within 12 hours.
仍不能明确诊断的，应立即填写传染病报告卡，注明“不明原因肺炎” 并向疾控系统网络直报。
If the diagnosis is still not clear, fill out the infectious disease report card immediately, indicate "unknown pneumonia" and report directly to the disease control system network.
杨教授强调，这套网络直报系统并不是逐级报告，而是只要医院在网络系统中点击报告了病例，中国疾控中心第一时间就应该收到，“在全国所有的地方，只要下边报告、点了，哪怕是点一例，我们都能在系统上第一时间看到。
Professor Yang stressed that this network direct reporting system is not a hierarchical report, but as long as hospitals in the network system click reported cases, CDC should receive the first time, "in all parts of the country, as long as the next report, click, even a single case, we can see on the system the first time.
”04这套直报系统在实际操作中是否会面对挑战？当然会。
Will the direct reporting system face challenges in practice? Of course.
比如出现不明原因的肺炎，基层医生要有这个判断，再上报，这个做判断的过程并不容易。
For example, the emergence of unknown causes of pneumonia, primary doctors to have this judgement, and then reported, the process of making a judgement is not easy.
因为冬春季节原本就是肺炎多发的时间段。
Because the winter and spring season is already a time of frequent pneumonia.
对临床医生来说，治疗仍然是第一位的。
For clinicians, treatment remains the number one priority.
疾控中心日常的一个工作，便是检查各医院的病例，看是否有应该上报但没有上报的病例。
A routine part of the CDC's job is to screen hospitals for cases that should be reported but not reported.
05发现传染病疫情后，疾控中心会怎么办？完成网络直报后，县级疾控机构须于24小时内对病例完成初步流行病学调查，同时收集疫情信息。
What will the CDC do after the outbreak of an infectious disease? After the network is reported directly, the county CDC must complete the preliminary epidemiological investigation of the case within 24 hours and collect the epidemic information.
同时，县级疾控机构还需在接到病例报告后的24小时内组织专家会诊，并逐级向上级 (市级、省级) 备案，接受上级审核。
At the same time, county-level CDC organizations are required to organize expert consultation within 24 hours of receiving a case report and file it with their superiors (municipal, provincial) for review.
若任何一级别的专家无法确诊，将交由上级会诊，上级的会诊期限同样是接到下级报告后的24小时内。
If a specialist at any level is unable to confirm the diagnosis, he or she is referred to a higher authority, which also meets within 24 hours of receiving a report from a subordinate.
不能排除 SARS 和人禽流感的病例，需将采集相关临床样本进行实验室检测。
Cases of SARS and human avian influenza cannot be ruled out and relevant clinical samples need to be collected for laboratory testing.
在会诊的同时，医疗机构需立即将病例收治入院，按呼吸道传染病隔离治疗，医务人员也需采取个人防护措施。
At the same time, medical institutions are required to immediately hospitalize cases and treat them separately from respiratory infections, and medical personnel are required to take personal protective measures.
如果疫情严重，疾控中心还需上报给所在行政区的卫健委。
If the outbreak is serious, the CDC must also report to the health care committee in the district.
什么样的疫情需要报给当地卫健委，当地卫健委又应将哪类疫情上报当地政府，这都没有确切的规定。
What kind of epidemic situation needs to be reported to the local health committee, the local health committee should report what kind of epidemic situation to the local government, there are no precise regulations.
不同的传染病，感染人数也各不相同，这是一个经验问题。
It is an empirical question that the number of infections varies from one infectious disease to another.
但疾控中心的报告中会包含疫情的具体情况，也会给出防控建议。
But the CDC report will include details of the outbreak and recommendations for prevention and control.
06疾控中心可以公布疫情信息吗？《传染病防治法》第38条规定，传染病爆发、流行时，国家卫健委负责向社会公布传染病疫情信息，并可以授权省卫健委向社会公布本行政区域的传染病疫情信息，具体需公布信息包括突发公共卫生事件和传染病疫情性质、原因、发生地及范围、伤亡及涉及的人员范围、处理措施和控制情况等信息。
Article 38 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases stipulates that when an infectious disease erupts or becomes prevalent, the State Sanitary Commission shall be responsible for disclosing to the public information on the epidemic situation of an epidemic disease in its administrative area.
1月20日前，新型冠状病毒肺炎未被确认为“法定传染病”，而在《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测、排查和管理方案》中，对于此类“不明原因肺炎”的疫情信息，并没有规定相应的社会通报制度。
Prior to January 20, the new coronavirus pneumonia was not recognized as a "statutory infectious disease," and the National Program for Monitoring, Screening and Managing Cases of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia did not provide for a corresponding social notification system for such "unidentified pneumonia."
07在这次疫情的爆发初期，疾控中心报告了吗？杨功焕教授认为，国家疾控中心应该向国家卫健委报告了，武汉市疾控也应该向武汉卫健委报告了，“2019年12月底，武汉就已经有27例病例，并且怀疑人传人，这件事放在任何城市的疾控中心和卫健委那里，都属于很严重的事。
At the beginning of the outbreak, did the CDC report to the CDC? Professor Yeung Kwok-hwan believed that the CDC should have reported to the NCHRC, and the Wuhan CDC should have reported the 27 cases to Wuhan by the end of December 2019.
不可能瞒报。
It cannot be underreported.
我们都在这个位子坐过，瞒报是什么责任？”而且，12月底，武汉市卫健委医政医管处也确实发布了病例数字，并且向下辖医院发了文件。
We have all sat in this position, and what is the responsibility for the cover-up? "Besides, at the end of December, the Medical and Medical Bureau of Wuhan Health Care Commission did publish the number of cases and sent documents to the hospitals under its jurisdiction.
但1月30日NEJM发表的由国家疾控中心专家主要参与的引发网络情绪的论文显示，其所讨论的早期病例信息是通过“不明原因肺炎”网络报送系统获得的。
But a paper published by NEJM on Jan. 30, in which CDC experts were mainly involved, showed that the early case information it discussed was obtained through the Unexplained Pneumonia network.
自1月3日起，武汉的不明原因肺炎疫情即遵照中国疾控中心制定的流行病学监测方案，以识别潜在病例。
Since January 3, the outbreak of unexplained pneumonia in Wuhan has followed the epidemiological surveillance program set up by the China CDC to identify potential cases.
中国武汉最早的425个新型冠状病毒（2019-nCoV）感染肺炎（NCIP）确诊病例的发病情况。
China Wuhan, the earliest 425 new coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection pneumonia (NCIP) confirmed the incidence of the disease.
1月8日之后的发病率下降可能是由于诊断时间和实验室确诊时间的延迟。
The decline in morbidity after 8 January may be due to delays in diagnosis time and in laboratory diagnosis.
中国CDC代表中国疾病预防控制中心、NHC代表中华人民共和国国家卫生健康委员会，PCR代表聚合酶链反应，WHC代表武汉市卫生健康委员会，WHO代表世界卫生组织。
The CDC represents the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the NHC represents the National Health Council of the People's Republic of China, PCR represents the polymerase chain reaction, the WHC represents the Wuhan Health and Hygiene Committee, and the WHO represents the WHO.
图片来源：NEJM然而1月16日即有医生因感染而住院，中国疾控中心的副主任冯子健知道这一消息，却是和公众一样，通过1月20日钟南山在央视接受的采访。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese CDC deputy director Feng Zijian knew that doctors had been hospitalized on January 16 because of an infection. But Feng Zijian, deputy director of the China CDC, told CCTV on January 20.
1月31日，《新京报》采访了中国疾控中心副主任、NEJM论文通讯作者冯子健。
On January 31, the Beijing News interviewed Feng Zijian, deputy director of China CDC and correspondent of NEJM paper.
冯子健亦否认了“中国疾控中心隐瞒数据”的说法，称“从最早开始，就把它当作有高度传染性的疾病来对待，第一时间采取了密切接触者管理等措施。
Feng also denied claims that the CDC was withholding data, saying it had been treated as a highly contagious disease from its earliest days, first taking measures such as close contacts management.
”不过，冯子健同时表示，“数据上报的层级很多，包括国家级、省级、市级、区级，从区一级承担疫情调查任务的部门开始，数据上报有个过程。
However, Feng Zhijian said: "There are many levels of data reporting, including national, provincial, municipal and district levels, starting with those departments that undertake epidemic investigation at the district level, and there is a process for data reporting."
”且新型冠状病毒未列入“法定传染病”之前，无法使用2个小时直达国家层面的网络直报系统，“调整网络直报系统设置、人员培训需要一个过程。
And before the new coronavirus was listed as a "statutory infectious disease," it was impossible to use a two-hour direct-to-national network direct reporting system.
”这一表态中提及的疫情上报多层级与中国疾病预防控制信息系统已经建立的系统直报构成了冲突。
The multi-tiered reporting of the disease, mentioned in the statement, conflicts with the systematic reporting already established by China's disease prevention and control information system.
若按照冯子健的表述，则说明我国出于吸取SARS教训而建立的传染病例直报系统，至少在此次新冠疫情的防控中并未发挥关键作用。
According to Feng Zikian, it shows that the direct reporting system of infectious diseases set up by our country to draw lessons from SARS did not play a key role in the prevention and control of the new crown.
08报告了之后，谁来管控疫情？谁来公开信息？一个城市要防治一次传染病疫情，需要政府统筹调动各方资源，卫健委是其中一部分。
After the report, who will control the epidemic? Who will disclose the information? A city to prevent an epidemic of infectious diseases requires the government to pool resources, of which the Health Commission is a part.
它能要求医院做好防控措施，而独立于卫健委的医保局，则需要提供医保报销方面的支持措施，至于基层的防控，那就需要各单位和基层政府。
It requires hospitals to take preventive and control measures, while Medicare, which is independent of the health care commission, needs to provide support for health-care reimbursement. As for grass-roots prevention and control, it requires units and grass-roots governments.
各级卫健委负责的信息公开，当然也是其中的一部分。
Health care committees at all levels responsible for information disclosure, of course, is part of it.
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 疾控中心无辜吗？。
Special Report # 124; Is the CDC innocent?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 疾控中心无辜吗？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "当面临这类紧急发生的公共卫生事件，一个国家的疾病控制系统是如何运作的？疾病相关信息又会如何流转？疾控中心究竟在其中有哪些权责以及扮演什么角色？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How does a country's disease-control system work when faced with such an emergency public health event? How does information about disease flow? What responsibilities and roles does CDC have?
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
