特别报道 | 湖北省长鞠躬，黄冈卫健委主任免职，政府表态打几分？。
Special report & # 124; Hubei provincial governor bowed, Huanggang Wei Bow chairman dismissed, the government said a bit?
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
作者 |第一财经一财资讯来源| 新华社人民日报 央视新闻中国新闻网据人民日报，29日晚，湖北省召开第8场新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会。
China Daily News (CCTV) - Hubei Province held its eighth news conference on the prevention and control of pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection, the People's Daily reported yesterday.
湖北省委副书记、省长、省新型肺炎防控指挥部指挥长王晓东，湖北省卫生健康委员会主任刘英姿，武汉大学中南医院呼吸内科主任程真顺，出席并回答记者提问。
The Deputy Secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee, Governor Wang Xiaodong of the Provincial New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command, Liu Yingzi, Director of the Hubei Provincial Health Committee, and Cheng Zhengshun, Director of Respiratory Medicine, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, attended and answered questions from journalists.
湖北省长：全省医疗物资保障很紧缺湖北省省长王晓东表示，医疗物资保障很紧缺，不仅武汉及周边城市存在短缺，全省其他地方普遍严重不足。
Hubei Provincial Governor: There is a shortage of medical supplies throughout the province. Hubei Governor Wang Xiaodong said that medical supplies are in short supply, not only in Wuhan and surrounding cities, but in other parts of the province.
湖北省长：感谢大家对我们的监督批评湖北省长王晓东表示，疫情爆发以来，有不少人对我们的防控工作提出批评，有些意见比较尖锐，我理解，这是给我们开的苦口良药，都是希望我们把工作做好。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, many people have criticized our work on prevention and control, some of them more incisive. I understand that this is a bitter medicine given to us to do our job well.
我非常感谢大家对我们的监督和批评，也希望大家继续对我的工作，湖北省政府的工作进行监督批评，我们共同为阻击疫情而战斗。
I am very grateful to all of you for your supervision and criticism. I hope you will continue to criticize my work and that of the Hubei Provincial Government.
湖北企业复工不早于2月13日湖北省省长王晓东：湖北省的疫情防控处于一个关键期，经过省疫情防控指挥部研究决定，全省各类企业复工的时间不早于2月13日24时，各类学校延期开学，具体的开学时间要视疫情防控的情况确定。
Hubei enterprises resume work no earlier than Feb. 13 by Hubei Provincial Governor Wang Xiaodong: The prevention and control of the epidemic in Hubei Province is at a critical stage. As a result of research by the Provincial Command of Disease Control and Prevention, all types of enterprises in the province will resume work no earlier than 2400 hours on February 13.
湖北省长王晓东：现在大家都称呼医护人员是“最美逆行者”，因为医护人员不顾个人安危，始终奋战在阻击疫情的第一线，我感到他们是这个时代最可爱的人。
Governor of Hubei Province Wang Xiaodong: Now we call the medical personnel "the most beautiful inverse walkers" because medical personnel, regardless of their personal safety, have been fighting on the frontlines to stop the epidemic.
我向所有医护人员说一声，你们辛苦了，谢谢你们！湖北省长向医护人员鞠躬湖北省长王晓东：现在大家都称呼医护人员是“最美逆行者”，因为医护人员不顾个人安危，始终奋战在阻击疫情的第一线，我感到他们是这个时代最可爱的人。
Hubei Provincial Governor Wang Xiaodong: Now we all call the medical personnel the "most beautiful inverse" because medical personnel, regardless of their personal safety, have always fought on the frontlines of the fight against the epidemic, and I feel they are the loveliest people of our time.
我向所有医护人员说一声，你们辛苦了，谢谢你们！湖北省长：决不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉湖北省省长王晓东表示，湖北全省17个市州，都已经发现确诊病例，这就更加警醒在疫情防控上，必须全面动员、全面部署、全面加强，重点做好武汉防控的同时，加强市州的防控，要形成全省联防联控的工作格局。
Hubei Provincial Governor: Huanggang must not be allowed to become the second Wuhan Hubei province governor Wang Xiaodong said the confirmed cases have been found in 17 cities and counties throughout Hubei Province.
市州的防控就是加强重点地区人员的防控，现在黄冈、孝感、荆门、咸宁等地形势比较严峻，特别是黄冈，确诊和疑似病例累计超过一千人，决不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉。
Now the situation in Huanggang, filial piety, Jingmen and Xianning is more serious, especially in Huanggang, where over a thousand people have been diagnosed and suspected. Huanggang must not be allowed to become a second Wuhan.
那么，“绝不成第二个武汉”的黄冈疫情控制现在到底怎么样了？近几日，黄冈市的新型肺炎病例近期却在不断攀升，累计确诊及死亡病例数量都已经成为仅次于武汉的湖北城市。
So how is the Huanggang epidemic now under control? In recent days, the number of new cases of pneumonia in Huanggang has been on the rise, with the number of confirmed cases and deaths now second only to Wuhan.
黄冈是否会成为下一个武汉？1月30日，根据湖北省卫健委披露的最新数据，截至2020年1月29日24时，湖北省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例4586例，其中，武汉市2261例、黄冈市496例，已治愈出院90例，死亡162例，其中，武汉市129例、黄冈市12例。
As of 2400 hours on January 29, 2020, a total of 4,586 new cases of coronavirus infection had been reported in Hubei Province, including 2261 in Wuhan and 496 in Huanggang, with 90 cases cured and 162 deaths, including 129 in Wuhan and 12 in Huanggang.
1月29日，湖北省委副书记、省长王晓东也在湖北省新型肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上表示，从目前病例发生情况看，黄冈、孝感、荆门、咸宁等地形势严峻。
On January 29, 2007, the vice-secretary of the Hubei Provincial Committee, Governor Wang Xiaodong, also told a news conference on the prevention and control of the new pneumonia epidemic in Hubei Province that the situation in Huanggang, filial piety, Jingmen and Xianning was grim.
特别是黄冈，确诊和疑似病例累计超千人，决不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉。
Huanggang in particular, the cumulative number of confirmed and suspected cases of thousands of people, Huanggang must not become a second Wuhan.
为此，省里28日已经向黄冈派出了工作组，对其他市州已做到派出督导组全覆盖。
To this end, on the 28th of the province has sent a team to Huang Gang, to other cities and counties have been able to send supervision teams full coverage.
王晓东称，28日晚上11点，黄冈版“小汤山”医院正式启用，开始转运收治病人。
Wang Xiaodong said, 28 evening, Huanggang version of the "Xiaotangshan" hospital officially opened, began to transfer patients.
截至今天17时，已将全国紧急支持力量中的11支医疗队、1535名医护人员，充实到除武汉之外的黄冈、孝感等10个市。
By 1700 hours, 11 medical teams and 1,535 medical personnel from the National Emergency Support Force had been expanded to 10 cities, including Huanggang and Xiaogan, in addition to Wuhan.
湖北黄冈全市31日起实行交通管制除了加强医疗救治力量支持，黄冈市的其他防控措施也再升级。
Huanggang City in Huanggang City from the implementation of traffic control in addition to strengthening the support of medical treatment, Huanggang City other control measures have been upgraded.
1月30日，黄冈市发布新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作指挥部通告，根据通告，自2020年1月31日零时起，黄冈市区和各县（市、区）主城区、城关镇实行机动车、电动车限制通行的交通管制措施。
On January 30, the Huanggang City Command issued a notice on the prevention and control of pneumonia related to a new coronavirus infection. According to the circular, from 0000 hours on January 31, 2020, traffic control measures for motor vehicles and electric vehicles will be implemented in the main city and city towns of Huanggang city and counties (cities and districts).
城区主要通行道路实行物理隔离和设卡管理，除参与疫情防控、医疗救护、生活生产保障、应急救援的车辆外，其它车辆一律禁止上路通行。
The main roads in urban areas are subject to physical isolation and card-setting management, and all vehicles except those involved in epidemic prevention and control, medical aid, livelihood and production security, and emergency rescue are prohibited from passing on the roads.
通告称，对参与疫情防控、医疗救护、应急救援的工作人员，凭工作证件或证明文件通行；运输医疗物资、生产生活物资的车辆，对随车人员进行体温检测后，允许通行。
Staff involved in disease prevention and control, medical aid and emergency rescue work are allowed to pass through on the strength of their work certificates or certificates, while vehicles carrying medical supplies and materials for daily use are allowed to pass through after their body temperature test is conducted, the circular said.
中央督查组到黄冈检查情况却遭遇“一问三不知”1月29日，中央指导组派出督查组，赶赴黄冈市进行督查核查。
The Central Supervision and Inspection Team went to Huanggang to inspect the situation. On January 29, the Central Steering Group sent a supervisory team to Huanggang for inspection and verification.
当问到定点医院收治能力床位数量、核酸检测能力时，当地卫健委主任要么沉默，要么含糊其辞，一问三不知。
When asked about the number of beds available in designated hospitals and the ability to detect nucleic acids, the local health committee chief was either silent or vague.
最新消息，经黄冈市委研究同意，提名免去唐志红同志黄冈市卫生健康委员会主任职务，其免职按有关法律规定办理。
The latest report, approved by the Huanggang Municipal Committee, dismisses Comrade Tang Zhihong from his post as the director of the Huanggang Municipal Health Committee.
Play以下为督察组、记者与黄冈市主管部门负责人采访对话实录：督查组：“总量能接待多少人？”黄冈市卫健委主任：……（沉默）督查组：“唐主任，你是主任还是副主任？”卫健委主任：“因为我们有个（主管）医疗的...”督查组：“您是主任，一把手。
How many people can the inspection team receive? "Director of the Huanggang City Fitness Commission:..." (Silence) Supervision Group: "Director Tang, you are the director or deputy director?" Wei Bodyguard Director: "Because we have [director] medical..." Supervision group: "You are the director, a leader.
”卫健委主任：“对对对。
"" Right, right, "said Wei.
”黄冈市疾控中心主任：“118。
"118, director of the CDC in Huanggang.
”卫健委主任：“我记得是200人左右。
"" I remember about 200 people, "Wei said.
”督查组：“到底多少？”疾控中心主任：“118。
"How much?" the CDC director: "118.
”记者：两位负责人都含糊其辞....当地主管部门对定点医院的收治能力和具体床位数却并不太清楚。
Journalist: The two chiefs were vague... local authorities were unclear about the capacity and number of beds available at the designated hospitals.
督查组：“现在收了多少人？”疾控中心主任：“现在收了多少人，我不太清楚。
Inspector group: "How many people now?" CDC Director: "How many people now, I do not know.
”卫健委主任：（打电话...）“他马上来，这个我们专门有人在那里负责收治。
"Health Commissioner Wei: (calling...)" He's coming right away, and we have someone there to take care of the treatment.
”记者：“刚才在说具体床位的时候，您一直在打电话问。
"Journalist:" You were on the phone asking when you were talking about the specific bed.
”卫健委主任：“是呀，我是问他收治了多少病人....我并不是床位数那个....现在每天都在变化，知道吧。
"Wei Bodyguard Director:" Yes, I mean how many patients he admitted... I'm not the number of beds... it's changing every day, you know.
”记者：“您掌握这些情况吗？”卫健委主任：“那我不知道，我搞不清楚。
"Journalist:" Do you have any information? "Wei Boxian director:" Then I don't know, I don't know.
”记者：“你觉得这是个很细节的问题吗？”卫健委主任：“因为收治病人我们是这样的，我只知道有多少张床位，你非要问我收治了多少病人……”记者：黄冈市眼下疑似病例已经超过1000人。
Journalist: "Do you think this is a very detailed question?" Wei said: "Because we accept patients like this, I just know how many beds there are, and you have to ask me how many patients I have..." Journalist: Huanggang City now has more than 1,000 suspected cases.
但是检查中，当地无论是疾控中心的负责人还是卫生健康委员会的负责人，都给不出核酸检测能力的明确数据。
But neither the head of the CDC nor the head of the health committee gave clear data on nucleic acid testing.
督查组：“你说这个情况你不掌握，你不知道黄冈现在到底能检查多少？你疾控中心是不是要首先掌握这个情况？唐主任，你掌握这个数字吗？”卫健委主任：“这之前也找不到方向。
Inspector: "You said this situation you do not grasp, you do not know how much Huanggang can check now? Do you CDC have to grasp this situation first? Director Tang, do you have this number?" Wei Jianchang director: "This has not been found before.
”据央视报道，在反复多次核实后，督察组终于掌握黄冈市核酸检测能力的最终数据。
After repeated verifications, the team finally had the final data on Huanggang's nucleic acid detection capability, CCTV reported.
督察组要求黄冈市根据中央指导组提出的意见，加快疑似病例送检进度，同时要对标对表党中央国务院部署，在落地落细落实上下更大功夫，尤其要做到数字准、情况明，最大程度确保疑似病例、确诊病例分开安置，疑似病例单间安置。
The inspection team asked Huanggang to speed up the dispatch of suspected cases in accordance with the suggestions made by the Central Steering Group, and to make greater efforts to deploy them to the State Council of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China.
据悉，黄冈市已于当天下发文件，要求各县市限期完成疑似病例采样送检工作。
It is reported that the city of Huanggang has issued documents on the same day, county and municipal deadline to complete the suspected case sample sent to inspection.
附：湖北第8场新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会实录湖北省卫健委主任刘英姿：尊敬的各位媒体朋友，大家晚上好，截至1月28日24时，我省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例3554例，其中重症671例，危重症228例，死亡125例，治愈出院80例。
Liu Yingzi: Distinguished media friends, as of 2400 hours on January 28, I have reported 3,554 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection in our province. Of these, 671 cases of severe illness, 228 cases of critical illness, 125 cases of death and 80 cases of cure.
在医疗救治方面，我们采取了以下措施。
With regard to medical treatment, we have taken the following measures.
刘英姿：一，是努力使群众有地方看病。
Liu Yingzi: One is to try to make the masses have places to see doctors.
一是及时接诊发热病人549家二级医疗机构设置了发热门诊来接收发热门诊。
One is timely access to fever patients 549 second-level medical institutions set up a fever clinic to receive fever clinic.
二级以上医疗机构严格规范设置发热门诊，实行24小时接诊，乡镇卫生院和社区卫生服务中心设置专门对接发热病人的诊所，实行24小时值班，严格实行预检分检，对发热病人分类隔离留观治疗。
Medical institutions above the second level strictly regulate the setting up of fever clinics and provide 24-hour consultations. Township and community health centres have set up clinics specially for docking and docking febrile patients on 24-hour duty.
二是确定定点医院救治患者，全省更确定了131家定点医院，收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疑似和确诊病例，其中武汉确定了30家，其他市州确定了101家。
The second is to identify designated hospitals to treat patients, the province has identified 131 designated hospitals, the new coronavirus infection pneumonia suspected and confirmed cases, of which Wuhan identified 30, other cities and states identified 101.
三是加快调配床位。
Third, speeding up the deployment of beds.
目前全省已开设隔离病房1.1万张，其中武汉开设的隔离床位是5000张，其他市州6000张。
There are 11,000 isolation wards in the province, including 5,000 in Wuhan and 6,000 in other cities.
同时根据疫情防控的形势随时改扩建、租用改造现有病床，进而满足诊疗的需要。
At the same time, according to the situation of disease prevention and control at any time to expand, rent and upgrade existing beds, thus meeting the needs of diagnosis and treatment.
刘英姿：尽量做到有医生看病。
Liu Yingzi: Try to have a doctor.
我省的医务工作者全力以赴投入到医疗救治，自应急响应以来，全省各级各类的医疗机构所有的医务人员放弃休假，短时间全部到岗，131个定点医院有8万余名医务人员投入了新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的医疗救治工作，初步估计全省各类医疗机构投入到发热病人，疑似和确诊病例救治的一线的医务人员超过17万人。
Since the emergency response, all medical personnel at all levels and in all types of medical institutions in the province have given up their leave and come on duty for a short period of time.More than 80,000 medical personnel from 131 designated hospitals have given medical treatment to pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus infection.
二是国家、省部队大力驰援我省，截止到昨天晚上，共有国家卫生健康委、国家中医药管理局、中国中医科学院29个省市区和部队的52支医疗队共6097名医疗队员在我省协助开展医疗救助工作。
As of last night, there were 52 medical teams from 29 provinces and municipalities of the National Health Council, the State Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine and the Chinese Academy of Chinese Medicine and 52 medical teams from the PLA.
其中41支安排在武汉，11支安排在鄂州、荆门、襄阳、咸宁、金州、孝感、黄冈、仙桃、天门等11个市县，部队来了海军、陆军、空军的医疗救援队，广东、浙江、江苏、上海、北京、安徽、河北、湖南、山东、四川、天津、重庆等12个省市区均派出多支医疗队支援我们。
Of these, 41 arrangements were made in Wuhan, 11 in Huizhou, Jingmen, Xiangyang, Xianning, Jinzhou, Xiaogang, Huanggang, Xiantao and Tianmen. The PLA has sent medical teams to 12 provinces and municipalities including Guangdong, Zhejiang, Jiangsu, Shanghai, Beijing, Anhui, Hebei, Hunan, Shandong, Sichuan, Tianjin and Chongqing.
刘英姿：尽全力救治患者。
Liu Yingzi: Do your best to treat the patient.
各地严格按照诊疗的指南，集中患者、集中专家、集中资源、集中救治的原则，全力做好疑似、确诊患者的医疗救治工作，针对重症患者实行一人一医疗团队，一人一诊疗方案进行救治。
Strictly in accordance with the guidelines for diagnosis and treatment, the principle of concentrating patients, experts, resources and centralized treatment, the medical treatment of suspected and confirmed patients will be fully realized, and a one-person-a-medical team and one-person-one-clinic programme will be implemented for patients with severe diseases.
刘英姿：尽力引导群众合理就医。
Liu Yingzi: Try to guide the masses to rational medical treatment.
一是加大宣传引导，我省的多家医院都通过手机APP开始了线上咨询，为有需要的居民提供线上咨询服务，普及自我防控知识，消除群众的恐慌情绪。
One is to step up publicity and guidance, many hospitals in our province have started on-line consultation through mobile phone APP, providing on-line consultation services to residents in need, popularizing their knowledge of self-control, and relieving panic among the masses.
二是加强就诊引导，在基层医疗机构安排了临床经验丰富，经过专门培训的医务人员负责预检分诊，强化发热病人早期识别，对筛出来的发热患者引导其前往上级医院进一步确诊，对疑似病例集中隔离，对确诊病例送到定点医院进行治疗。
The second is to strengthen clinical guidance, arrange clinical experience in primary health-care institutions. Specially trained medical personnel are responsible for pre-screening and early identification of fever patients, guiding them to higher-level hospitals for further diagnosis, centralizing the isolation of suspected cases and referring confirmed cases to designated hospitals for treatment.
刘英姿：加强排除，各村镇卫生室按照内防扩散，内防输出的要求和联防联控、群防群控的要求，配合乡村、街道对辖区群众提供网格化、地毯式管理，有效落实综合性防控措施，控制疾病传播，谢谢。
Liu Yingzi: Strengthening the exclusion, in accordance with the requirements of internal non-proliferation, internal and export prevention, and the requirements of joint control and group control, to provide grid, blanket management to the people in their districts, effectively implement comprehensive prevention and control measures, and control the spread of diseases, thank you.
答记者问中央电视台记者：我想问的是，据我们了解目前全省的医疗物资是比较紧张的，除了武汉之外，特别是像黄冈地区甚至在官方发布了求助的信息，我们是在医疗物资紧张的这种现状之下，我们会采取什么新的措施来缓解？谢谢。
In addition to Wuhan, especially in Huanggang region and even the official announcement of help, what new measures will we take to alleviate the situation of medical crisis? Thank you.
湖北省省长王晓东：记者朋友们，大家晚上好，我们又见面了，感到很亲切，感谢刚才那位记者的提问。
Governor of Hubei Province Wang Xiaodong: Good evening, friends of journalists. We met again and felt very friendly. Thank you for your question.
在回答问题之前，我先补充讲几句，接着刚才刘英姿同志的发布。
Before I answer the question, I would like to add a few words, followed by Comrade Liu Yingzi's announcement just now.
王晓东：疫情爆发以来，有不少朋友对我们的防控工作提出了一些批评，有些意见还比较尖锐，我理解这是给我们开的苦口良药，都是希望我们把工作做好。
Wang Xiaodong: Since the outbreak of the outbreak, many friends have made some criticisms on our prevention and control work, some of them more incisive. I understand that this is a bitter medicine for us, and that we should do our job well.
我非常感谢大家对我们的监督和批评，也希望大家继续对我的工作、对湖北省政府的工作进行监督和批评。
I am very grateful for your supervision and criticism of us. I hope you will continue to supervise and criticize my work and that of the Hubei Provincial Government.
我们共同为阻击疫情而战斗。
Together, we are fighting to stop the epidemic.
王晓东：全省各类企业复工时间不早于2月13日24时。
Wang Xiaodong: All kinds of enterprises in the province return to work no earlier than 2400 hours February 13.
各类学校延期开学，具体开学时间视疫情防控情况决定。
All types of schools are postponed, depending on the situation of disease prevention and control.
王晓东：医疗物资保障很紧缺，不仅武汉及周边城市存在短缺，全省其他地方普遍严重不足。
Wang Xiaodong: Medical supplies are in short supply, not only Wuhan and surrounding cities, other parts of the province are generally seriously deficient.
人民日报记者：做好武汉疫情防控同时如何做好其他地区防控？王晓东：武汉始终是疫情防控的重中之重，打赢武汉事关全局。
Wang Xiaodong: Wuhan has always been the top priority of disease prevention and control, winning Wuhan is the overall concern.
其他市州都发现确诊病例，更加警醒我们在疫情防控上全面动员，全面部署，在重点做好武汉防控的同时，加强其他市州的防控，形成联防联控的格局，当务之急是加强重点地区，重点人员的防控。
Other cities and counties have found confirmed cases, more alert us in the prevention and control of the epidemic in the overall mobilization, full deployment, while doing a good job in Wuhan, while strengthening the prevention and control of other cities and counties, form a joint control pattern, the urgent task is to strengthen key areas, key personnel prevention and control.
现在是黄冈、孝感、荆门、咸宁等地形式比较严峻，特别是黄冈，确诊疑似病例累计超过1000人，决不能让黄冈成为第二个武汉。
Now it is Huanggang, filial piety, Jingmen, Xianning and other more severe forms, especially Huanggang, confirmed a total of more than 1,000 suspected cases, Huanggang must not become a second Wuhan.
目前救护力量不足是市州突出困难，新建扩建70多家医疗机构，新增8000余张床位。
At present, the shortage of medical aid is a serious problem in urban areas, with more than 70 new medical institutions built and expanded, with 8,000 new beds.
昨晚黄冈开始建“小汤山”，截至17时，全国紧急支持11只医疗队1535名医护人员到达除武汉之外的黄冈、孝感等四个市。
As of 1700 hours, 1,535 medical personnel from 11 medical teams had arrived in four cities, including Huanggang and Xiaogan, Wuhan.
王晓东：善待医护人员就是善待生命，对一线的医护人员、疾病防护人员政策坚决落实到位，对因履责感染的医护人员全方面落实政策待遇，决不能让他们流汗流血又流泪。
Wang Xiaodong: To treat medical personnel well is to treat them well, to put in place the policies of the front-line medical personnel and disease prevention personnel, and to implement the policy on all aspects of health care workers who are responsible for infection.
记者：目前如何居家隔离才是最安全，科学的？武汉大学中南医院呼吸内科主任程真顺教授：病毒主要通过飞沫、空气和接触传播，居家隔离要单独住一个房间，通风良好，隔离者及家人要戴口罩。
Reporter: How is segregation at home the safest and most scientific? Professor Cheng Zhengshun, Director of Respiratory Medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital: The virus is transmitted mainly by foam, air and contact, isolation in a single room, good ventilation, and masks for the isolated individuals and their families.
公共物品尽量避免共用，居住环境及时消毒，门把手、遥控器，75的酒精，含氯的消毒液，经常清洗，及时干燥，洗衣机及时烘干。
Public goods to avoid sharing, timely disinfection living environment, door knobs, remote control, 75 alcohol, chlorine disinfectant, frequent cleaning, timely drying, washing machines timely drying.
限制活动范围，不要轻易外出，谢绝亲朋好友串门，居家隔离要密切观察呼吸道症状。
Limit the scope of activities, do not go out easily, declined family and friends to visit the door, isolated homes to closely observe respiratory symptoms.
如果没有改善，特别是老人和基础性疾病的，及时就医。
If there is no improvement, especially in the elderly and basic diseases, timely access to health care.
王晓东：截至今天12时，全省慈善系统、红十字会系统，累计收到慈善金额42.6亿元，慈善物资529万件。
Wang Xiaodong: As of today 12: 00 noon, the entire province's charitable system, the Red Cross system, received a total of 4.26 billion yuan of charity, 5.29 million pieces of charitable goods.
本文文字版权归第一财经所有，未经授权许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to the first financial company and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 湖北省长鞠躬，黄冈卫健委主任免职，政府表态打几分？。
Special report & # 124; Hubei provincial governor bowed, Huanggang Wei Bow chairman dismissed, the government said a bit?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 湖北省长鞠躬，黄冈卫健委主任免职，政府表态打几分？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“绝不成第二个武汉”的黄冈疫情控制现在到底怎么样了？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
