特别报道 | 武汉医生亲述：前线究竟需要什么。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; Wuhan Doctor himself says: What does the front line really need?
肖文杰。
Xiao Wenjie.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
祁立说现在最大的困难，是发热门诊的就诊人数过多。
Qili said the biggest difficulty right now is the high number of people attending the fever clinic.
而一线医务工作者最需要的，是能让患者根据规范的指南分级诊疗，减轻发热门诊和隔离病房不必要的压力。
What front-line health workers need most is to enable patients to be graded according to standard guidelines, reducing unnecessary stress in the fever clinic and isolation ward.
整个采访，他没有表达恐慌和焦虑，只希望传递客观、真实、有价值的信息。
Throughout the interview, he did not express panic and anxiety, but wished to convey objective, true and valuable information.
记者 | 肖文杰编辑 | 赵 嘉制图 | 程 星如果说疫情是一场战争（它也的确就是），那么湖北就是核心战场。
CORRESPONDENT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
而在疫源地武汉接诊发热病人的医生，便是最前线的士兵。
And in Wuhan, the focus of the disease to receive fever patients doctors, is the most frontline soldiers.
祁立就是其中之一。
Qi Li was one of them.
他是武汉一家大型综合医院的医生。
He is a doctor at a large general hospital in Wuhan.
1月19日，他接到院方通知，被紧急征调到急救中心，担任院前急救医生。
On 19 January, he was informed by the hospital authorities that he was urgently called to the emergency centre as a pre-hospital emergency doctor.
所谓院前，简单而言，就是120救护车上的医生。
The front yard, in short, is the doctor on the 120 ambulance.
而他的同事，也陆续接受征调，进入发热门诊或隔离病房。
His colleagues, too, have been recruited into the fever clinic or isolation ward.
平日，需要120急救车的病人，包括内、外科疾病、外伤等，但他实际接诊的，几乎都是发热病人。
On weekdays, he needed 120 ambulance patients, including internal and surgical diseases, injuries, but he actually received treatment, almost all are febrile patients.
以下内容，是根据对祁立的采访整理。
The following is based on Qili's interview.
祁立愿意接受采访，是因为他知道所有人正在经历信息轰炸，他希望作为一名一线医生，传递他所了解的，客观、真实，以及真正重要的信息。
Qili was willing to be interviewed because he knew that everyone was experiencing an information bombing, and he wanted to be a front-line doctor, delivering what he knew, objectively, truthfully, and truly important.
题图来源：第一财经为了保护祁立和他所在的医院，我们也采用了化名和信息模糊处理。
Topic Source: First Finance In order to protect Qi Li and his hospital, we also used aliases and fuzzy information processing.
他希望尽可能淡化个人情感，这也是本文采取第三人称，而不是第一人称的一个原因。
His desire to downplay personal feelings as much as possible is one reason why this article adopts the third person rather than the first person.
整个采访，他没有表达恐慌和焦虑。
Throughout the interview, he did not express panic or anxiety.
01疫情爆发前，医生能提前知道情况不对吗？和大多数人一样，祁立一开始也对疫情估计不足。
Before the outbreak, could doctors have known in advance that the situation was wrong? Like most people, Qi Lipi underestimated the epidemic from the start.
12月底社会上有了消息，那时医院也没有特殊的防护措施。
At the end of December, when the community had news, the hospital did not have special protective measures.
因为当时病例不是很多。
Because there were not many cases.
而且这个病起病时，症状和普通的呼吸道感染区别不大。
And when the disease starts, symptoms and common respiratory infections do not differ much.
1月16日，祁立和同事感受到疫情不那么简单。
On January 16, Qili and his colleagues realized that the epidemic was not so simple.
医院的院感开始增加防护措施。
The hospital's sense of well-being began to increase.
院感是医院的重要部门，作用就是防止和检测医院内的交叉感染。
Hospital sense is an important part of the hospital, the role of prevention and detection of cross-infection in hospitals.
这时候，虽然是外科医生，不直接接触发热或肺炎的病人，但祁立和他的同事也开始随时戴口罩了，当然N95很缺。
At this point, although the surgeon did not come into direct contact with patients with fever or pneumonia, Qili and his colleagues began wearing masks all the time, although N95 was lacking.
那时候医生之间已经准备好“上战场”。
By that time, doctors were ready to "go to war."
3天后，紧急征调通知就下来了。
Three days later, an emergency call came down.
02如何看待封城？祁立支持封城和交通管制。
What do you think of the blockade? Qili supported closure and traffic control.
从医学和流行病学的角度，减少人员流动，控制每个传染源，让每个病人获得合适的救治，是应对此类疫情最好的办法。
From a medical and epidemiological point of view, reducing the movement of people, controlling each source of infection and providing each patient with appropriate treatment are the best responses to such outbreaks.
他个人觉得，如果更早封城，会更好。
Personally, he felt that it would have been better if the city had been closed earlier.
当然，他知道封城之后会出现许多应激的困难。
Of course, he knew there would be a lot of stress after the closure.
作为一线医生，他也遇到了不少。
As a front-line doctor, he also encountered a lot.
03抗击疫情过程中，一线医生的真实工作状态究竟如何？祁立担任的是院前急救医生，一旦接到电话，他们必须4分钟之内出车，前往拨打120的患者所在地，或者是需要转运病人的医院。
Qili worked as a pre-hospital emergency doctor, and once called, they had to travel within four minutes to call 120 patients, or to a hospital where patients needed to be transferred.
上了车之后，他就需要和患者及家属电话联系，了解病情，提供建议。
Once in the car, he needs to contact the patient and his family by telephone to find out about the condition and provide advice.
到了现场，需要完成第一时间的急救治疗，然后把患者运到医院，与那里的医生完成交接。
On arrival, the first first-aid treatment is completed and the patient is transported to the hospital, where he or she is handed over to a doctor.
在开设发热门诊的定点医院，医护人员主要集中在两个区域：发热门诊和隔离病房。
In the designated hospitals with fever clinics, the medical staff are concentrated in two regions: the fever clinic and the isolation ward.
发热门诊医生的主要工作是完善检查，给出初步诊断，再根据统一的治疗指南（全称是《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第四版）》，下文简称“指南”）推荐治疗手段。
The main task of the fever clinic doctor is to improve the examination, give a preliminary diagnosis and recommend the treatment according to the unified treatment guidelines (hereinafter referred to as the "Trial 4th Edition" of the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme).
之后，根据指南，疑似和确诊病人被收入隔离病房，由那里的医生治疗。
Subsequently, according to the guidelines, suspected and diagnosed patients are admitted to the isolation ward, where they are treated by a doctor.
祁立的工作节奏，是做24小时，休息48小时。
Qi Li's work rhythm is to do 24 hours, rest 48 hours.
发热门诊和隔离病房则是一天三班倒，工作8小时，休息16小时。
Fever clinics and isolation wards operate in three shifts a day, working eight hours and resting for 16 hours.
但因为就诊人数远超过医院的“产能”，所有人都在超负荷运转。
But because the number of patients far exceeds the hospital's "capacity," everyone is overloading.
医生和护士经常需要换岗、补充，实际工作时间可能更长。
Doctors and nurses often have to change jobs, replenish them, and may work longer hours.
1月28日的情况是，去他所在的医院看发热门诊，病人需要在户外排队3到4个小时。
On 28 January, he was admitted to a fever clinic in his hospital, where patients had to stand in line for three to four hours.
前两天则更长，可能需要5到8个小时。
The first two days are longer and may take five to eight hours.
这种人满为患的情况从封城之前就开始了。
This overcrowding began before the closure of the city.
《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第四版）》摘要：传播途径：经呼吸道飞沫传播是主要的传播途径，亦可通过接触传播。
New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia (4th Edition): Transmission: Transmission via respiratory droplets is the main mode of transmission, but also through contact.
易感人群：人群普遍易感。
Sensitive people: General susceptibility.
老年人及有基础疾病者感染后病情较重，儿童及婴儿也有发病。
The elderly and people with basic diseases are more serious after infection, children and infants also have diseases.
潜伏期：基于目前的流行病学调查，潜伏期一般为3至7天，最长不超过14天。
Latency: Based on current epidemiological investigations, the incubation period is generally 3-7 days and the maximum is 14 days.
临床分型：1）普通型：具有发热、呼吸道等症状，影像学可见肺炎表现；2）重型，符合下列任何一条：呼吸窘迫，RR≥30 次/分；静息状态下，指氧饱和度≤93%；动脉血氧分压（PaO2）/吸氧浓度（FiO2）≤300mmHg（1mmHg=0.133kPa）。
Clinical Typology: 1) Common: Fever, Respiratory Symptoms, Visible Pneumonia; 2) Heavy Duty, Any of the following: Respiratory distress, RR > 30 / min; resting state, oxygen saturation ≤ 93%; arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) / oxygen absorption concentration (FiO2) ≤ 300 mmHg (1mHg = 0.133 kPa).
3）危重型，符合以下情况之一者：出现呼吸衰竭，且需要机械通气；出现休克；合并其他器官功能衰竭需ICU 监护治疗。
3) Critical type, if: respiratory failure occurs and mechanical ventilation is required; shock occurs; ICU monitoring is required for other organ failure.
04担任院前医生以来，最棘手的事情是什么？现在，祁立一次值班要接单15单左右，过去春节假期大约是每天3到5单。
What has been the toughest thing since he became a pre-hospital doctor? Now, Qi Li has to take 15 or so orders on duty once, compared with about three to five a day in the past.
出车后，他没法估算这一单所需时间。
He couldn't estimate the time it would take to get out of the car.
因为有许多不确定因素，这不是指疾病本身。
Because there are so many uncertainties, this is not the disease itself.
新型冠状病毒本身的治疗，其实医生们已经有底了。
The new coronavirus itself treatment, in fact, doctors have a bottom.
因为官方的指南已经出台，而且不断更新，他们只要根据指南来做。
Because the official guidelines are in place and up to date, they simply follow the guidelines.
让祁立感到棘手的有两类情况。
There are two kinds of situations that make Qi Li feel awkward.
一种是他出诊后，发现病人症状较轻，检查、治疗、开药，都可以在社区医院完成，没必要去医院发热门诊。
One is that after his visit, he found that the patient's symptoms are light, examination, treatment, medication, can be completed in the community hospital, there is no need to go to the hospital fever clinic.
但病人可能不听。
But the patient may not listen.
“我们只能反复说服，跟他们说发热门诊交叉感染的风险，还有就诊条件的恶劣。
"We had to convince them over and over again about the risk of cross-infection at the fever clinic and the poor condition of the clinic.
”祁立说。
"said Qi.
现在已经有些医院制作PPT，告诉医生如何与轻症患者沟通。
Some hospitals now make PPT to tell doctors how to communicate with light patients.
当然，祁立也知道，如果想要达到理想状态下的分级诊疗，社区医院的人力和物资也得补上。
Of course, Qili also knew that the human and material resources of the community hospital would have to be replenished if he wanted to reach the desired level of care.
另一种是病情严重的病人，没法送进抢救室。
The other is a seriously ill patient who cannot be sent to a rescue room.
祁立遇到过一次出诊，病人已经失去行动能力，他的诊断是需要迅速进入抢救室抢救。
Qili met a visit, the patient has lost the ability to move, his diagnosis is the need to quickly enter the rescue room rescue.
但等送到定点医院，抢救室没有位子了。
But wait until we get to the designated hospital. There's no room in the emergency room.
“病人家属和医生在沟通，当然也会有争执摩擦，而我们能做的是两件事，一方面和其他医院沟通，看看有没有抢救室的床位，另一方面也和医院沟通，想想有什么办法。
"The family and the doctor are talking, and of course there is friction, and all we can do is communicate with other hospitals to see if there is a bed in the emergency room, and with the hospital to think about what we can do.
院前医生的职责，是必须确保病人交接完毕。
The role of the pre-hospital doctor is to ensure that the patient is handed over.
”祁立说。
"said Qi.
最后，由于病人情况确实紧急，隔离病房里的医生出来临时抢救这位病人。
Finally, as the patient's condition was indeed urgent, the isolation ward's doctor came out to rescue the patient temporarily.
当然，这不符合规范，但情况特殊。
Of course, this is not the norm, but the situation is special.
这次出诊和转运，花了近3个小时。
The trip and transfer took nearly three hours.
05目前的当务之急是什么？对于一线医生来说，目前一切的困难和矛盾，都可以归结为医院的治疗能力，远远供不应求。
What is the immediate priority? For front-line doctors, all the current difficulties and contradictions can be attributed to the hospital's treatment capacity, far short of supply.
现在医院的发热门诊和隔离病房里塞满了病人。
Hospitals now have feverish clinics and isolation wards full of patients.
而其中，有不少是不必到发热门诊就医的轻症患者，也有很多没有感染新型冠状病毒的病人。
And many of them are not necessary to go to the fever clinic for medical treatment of light patients, there are many patients who do not infected with the new coronavirus.
如何说服轻症的患者根据指南，分流到社区医院，或是居家治疗，避免过多人群涌入发热门诊，是包括祁立在内的一线医生最大的挑战。
The biggest challenge facing frontline doctors, including Qili, was persuading patients with mild cases to shunt to community hospitals or stay-at-home treatment to avoid an influx of people into the fever clinic.
他们的想法很简单，把有限的医疗资源，最高效率地应用起来，才能更快遏制疫情，救治病人，防止扩散。
Their idea is simple: With limited medical resources and maximum efficiency, the epidemic can be contained more quickly, patients treated, and proliferation prevented.
06一线医生最需要什么？自从国家卫健委每天召开新闻发布会，记者总会追问真实的确诊和疑似病例到底有多少。
What do frontline doctors need most? Since the National Fitness Commission held a daily press conference, reporters will always ask the true number of confirmed and suspected cases.
一线医生对这个数字反倒不关心了。
The front-line doctor was not concerned with the figure.
不仅因为高负荷的工作中没空想这些，更因为目前的确诊数字无法客观反映现有疫情控制措施的效果，对他们的工作也没有指导性意义。
This is not only because of the lack of imagination in a high-load job, but also because the current number of confirmed cases does not objectively reflect the effectiveness of existing epidemic control measures, nor is it instructive for their work.
现在确诊数字快速上升背后，是试剂盒越发充足，以及处于潜伏期的病人陆续发病。
Now the number of confirmed cases is rising rapidly, is more and more adequate kits, and the latency of patients in the onset.
在实际工作过程中，他们更关心的是客观条件和资源，这些才能支撑他们保持这种超负荷工作状态。
In the actual course of their work, they are more concerned with the objective conditions and resources that sustain them in this state of overwork.
以下三件事最要紧。
The following three things matter most.
医疗物资。
Medical supplies.
据祁立了解，不同医院的医疗物资储备都不相同。
According to Qi Li's understanding, different hospitals have different reserves of medical materials.
外省市医疗队，或是军方医疗队接管的医院，普遍得到了补给。
Medical teams from foreign provinces and cities, or hospitals taken over by military medical teams, were generally resupplied.
更多的医院，在封城之前，已经开始各自想办法。
More hospitals, before the closure of the city, have begun to think of their own ways.
有的医生托人从境外代购了几千套防护服，有志愿者把口罩送到医院，也有公司送来了易保存的快捷食品，这些的确是实实在在的帮助。
Some doctors have sent people to buy thousands of suits of protective clothing from outside the country, volunteers have sent masks to hospitals, and companies have sent quick food items that are easy to keep.
在紧急时刻，医务工作者也会自助。
In an emergency, health workers help themselves.
物资被优先供应给要害位置，其他医生如果没有防护服，就用外科手术服顶一顶。
Priority was given to supplies to key locations, and other doctors used surgical overalls if they did not have protective clothing.
有的医生用游泳镜替代护目镜，也是有用的，可以防止身体的粘膜和病毒接触。
Some doctors use swimming goggles instead of goggles, it is also useful to prevent the body mucous membranes and virus contact.
祁立还看到一个基层医院的土办法，用透明的文件夹，剪开后用输液管代替绳子，再用洗手液消毒，系成一个简易的防护面罩，也能派上用场。
Qili also saw the earthen method of a basic hospital. Using transparent folders, cutting it off, replacing it with a line, and disinfecting it with hand sanitizer, it was also useful as a simple protective mask.
“物资确实缺，尤其防护服等，我们也知道医院和政府都在想办法，还有很多人在帮忙。
"There's a real shortage of supplies, especially protective clothing, and we know hospitals and the government are trying to figure it out, and there are a lot of people helping.
作为医生能做的只有坚持工作，同时相信物资可以补上，相信每个人都尽到自己的职责。
The only thing a doctor can do is to persevere in his work, believing that supplies can be filled and that everyone is doing his duty.
”祁立说。
"said Qi.
交通保障。
Traffic protection.
祁立的微信里，有个群名叫“武汉医护人员接送群101号”.在封城之后，武汉很快又发布了市区内的交通管制。
In Qi Li's letter, there was a group called Wuhan Medical Personnel Delivery Group 101. After the closure of the city, Wuhan soon issued traffic control in the city.
如何去医院上班确实成为医护人员最急迫的难题。
How to get to the hospital is indeed the most urgent problem for medical staff.
祁立了解到的解决办法有：1、有车的医护人员，就向医院申请通行证，尽可能带一些同事；2、没车的同事，除了搭车，还会向别人借车，然后申请通行证；有医生花了一天，向多年好友借了车，并嘱咐朋友把车上的坐垫、玩偶、配饰都拿掉；3、实在不行，就通过市民互助，医生不愿意这么做，因为他们想尽可能控制可能的传染范围。
When Qili learned about the solutions, he applied to the hospital for a laissez-passer and took as many colleagues as possible. 2) Colleagues without cars borrowed cars from others and applied for laissez-passer.
4、政府也在提供车队。
4. The Government is also providing convoys.
而医生们希望的，是尽快明确现在有些模糊的交通管制措施，落实每个医护人员的通勤。
And what doctors want is to quickly clarify some of the current fuzzy traffic control measures to implement the commute for every health care worker.
住宿保障。
Accommodation security.
医生都在自觉避免与家人住在一起。
Doctors are consciously avoiding living with their families.
独居的医生还好办，与人同居的医生，就得在外面找住处，医院附近的酒店是一大选择。
Doctors who live alone are easy to deal with, and those who live with them have to look outside for a place to live. Hotels near the hospital are an option.
祁立知道，现在有很多酒店提供免费房间给医务工作者，他很感激，但也指出其中的安全隐患：酒店房间内的摆设和家具比病房多得多，消毒很难做到零死角。
Qili knows that many hotels now offer free rooms to medical workers. He is grateful, but points out the security risks: the hotel rooms are much more furnishings and furniture than the wards, and sterilization is difficult to achieve a zero-dead-end angle.
有的医院较早在院区临时搭建了宿舍，但更多的医院在春节期间已经找不到工人了，疫情升级之后，就更不可能了。
Some hospitals set up temporary dormitories earlier in the courtyard, but more hospitals can not find workers during the Spring Festival, the escalation of the epidemic, even more impossible.
祁立听说政府正在组织集中的住宿点，他希望能尽快落实。
Qi Li heard that the government was organizing centralized accommodation, and he hoped to implement it as soon as possible.
07一线医生要承受身体和心理等方面多重压力，怎么缓解？身体是第一位的。
First-line doctors have to bear physical and psychological stress, how to alleviate? The body is the first.
祁立回到家，把所有外出穿的衣服清洗消毒，洗完澡，自身消毒。
When Qi Li came home, he washed and disinfected all the clothes he wore outside. He washed and disinfected himself.
这些步骤完成后，抓紧睡觉。
After these steps are completed, grab some sleep.
所有医生都是趁着下班时间尽量补充睡眠，补充营养。
All doctors try to supplement their sleep and nutrition during off-duty hours.
在一线医生心里，病例快速增加，既增加了压力，也减轻了压力。
The rapid increase in the number of cases in front-line doctors' centres has increased stress as well as reduced it.
增加的是工作压力，病人太多，他们的身心都必须超负荷运转。
Add to that the stress of work, too many patients, and their bodies and minds have to be overloaded.
减轻的压力在于，疫情刚开始时，重症比例高，而且有医护人员被感染，都是人，说不怕是假的。
The stress was reduced by the high rate of serious illness at the beginning of the outbreak and by the fact that health-care workers were infected, all of whom were human and said that fear was false.
但随着病例增加，他们知道重症病人往往是有其他基础疾病，对大多数人来说，症状不那么严重，也可以治愈。
But as the number of cases increases, they know that serious patients often have other underlying conditions that, for most people, are less severe and curable.
这对他们的心理是个托底：就算中招了，也不会到最糟的那一步。
This is a cover for their psychology: even if you admit it, you won't get to the worst.
祁立说自己属于“没心没肺”类型，回到家休息好，和朋友聊聊天，看看剧，打打联机游戏。
Qi Li said he belonged to the "heartless" type and went home to rest, chat with friends, watch plays and play online games.
他知道有的医生在崩溃边缘，那么多患者，总会碰到有意不配合的。
He knows that some doctors are on the verge of collapse, so many patients, there will always be deliberate non-cooperation.
同事之间能做的，也就是在微信群里发些好消息，打气的话，或是搞笑视频，让气氛活跃一些。
What co-workers can do is to send some good news, cheer up, or funny videos in the micro-mail community to make the atmosphere more lively.
这是他们目前的心理支持手段。
This is their current psychological support.
祁立每天也只是通个电话，跟长辈说下工作情况，报一下自己的体征，甚至不会刻意说一句“我很平安”。
Qi Li also only spoke on the phone every day, telling his elders about his work and telling him his signs, even without saying "I'm safe."
08最应该传递给公众的信息是什么？祁立一直强调，希望尽可能让公众正确认识这个疾病和这次疫情。
What is the message that should be delivered to the public? Qili has been stressing that he wants to make the public as aware of the disease and the epidemic as possible.
在家休息时，他也会尽可能在微信上科普。
While at home, he also tries to get popular science on the microphone.
他愿意接受采访的重要原因，也是希望能让更多普通人正确应对，这是对医生最大的帮助。
The main reason he was willing to be interviewed was that he wanted to get more ordinary people to do it right, which was the greatest help for doctors.
如果轻症病人都能根据指南，通过合适的方法就诊，在社区医院接受合适的治疗，在家隔离，不仅自己能降低交叉感染的风险、有效控制病情，还能缓解发热门诊和隔离病房的压力。
If light cases are treated in accordance with the guidelines through appropriate methods, appropriate treatment in community hospitals and isolation at home, not only can they reduce the risk of cross-infection, effectively control the disease, but also relieve the pressure of the fever clinic and isolation ward.
两个在建的“战地医院”，当然能缓解情况，但整个社会的有序应对和配合，是最好的补给。
The two "field hospitals" under construction can certainly alleviate the situation, but the orderly response and coordination of the whole society is the best supply.
祁立提供了一些关于疫情的诊疗和公开信息，他相信认知可以减少恐慌。
Qi Li provided some clinical and public information about the epidemic, and he believed that cognition could reduce panic.
09接下来会怎么样？祁立说，一线的医生没有办法给出明确的预测，没有谁能给出这样的预测，现在，他们还处于激战中。
What will happen next? Qili says that first-line doctors have no way to give a clear prediction, and no one can make such a prediction.
最近他和其他定点医院的医生交流，不少人觉得，如果现在公布的疫情防控措施，都实打实地落地，加上外界支援、物资补给，也许一个月后，一线的情况就能缓和。
He recently spoke with doctors at other designated hospitals, and many feel that if the disease is now announced, it will be on the ground, with outside support, supplies, and perhaps a month from now, the situation on the ground will ease.
而武汉的疫情要完全控制住，可能需要两到三个月。
Wuhan to completely control the outbreak, it may take two to three months.
在这期间，确诊人数还会有一段快速上升的过程，但这是一个必经的过程。
During this period, there will be a rapid increase in the number of confirmed cases, but this is a mandatory process.
这不代表现行的措施没有效果，客观上也能帮助医生们对患者群体有更好的把握。
This does not mean that the current measures are ineffective and objectively help doctors have a better grasp of the patient population.
现在要做的就是坚持下去，做好执行。
Now all we have to do is stick to it and do it well.
Play最后，让我们看看钟南山在接受新华社采访时对疫情的分析。
Finally, let's take a look at Zhong Nan Shan's analysis of the epidemic in an interview with Xinhua News Agency.
| 视频来源：新华社（应采访对象要求，祁立为化名）本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
http: / / www.51education.net) www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.net) www.51test.net www.51test.net www.51test.netwww.51test.net).
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道 | 武汉医生亲述：前线究竟需要什么。
Special Report & # 124; & # 45; Wuhan Doctor himself says: What does the front line really need?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道 | 武汉医生亲述：前线究竟需要什么";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Special report & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "祁立说现在最大的困难，是发热门诊的就诊人数过多。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Qili says the biggest difficulty now is the overrepresentation at the fever clinic.
而一线医务工作者最需要的，是能让患者根据规范的指南分级诊疗，减轻发热门诊和隔离病房不必要的压力。
What front-line health workers need most is to enable patients to be graded according to standard guidelines, reducing unnecessary stress in the fever clinic and isolation ward.
整个采访，他没有表达恐慌和焦虑，只希望传递客观、真实、有价值的信息。
Throughout the interview, he did not express panic and anxiety, but wished to convey objective, true and valuable information.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
