特别报道：1月6日之后，12天病例零新增之谜。
Special Report: After January 6, 12 days of zero new cases of enigma.
许冰清。
Xu Bingqing.
第一财经YiMagazine                      。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
第一财经YiMagazine。
First Finance Yi Magazine.
这里是《第一财经》杂志（前身《第一财经周刊》）读者俱乐部，我们为你发掘精彩的商业价值，也邀请你一起探寻明亮的商业世界。
This is the Reader's Club of First Finance Magazine (formerly the First Finance Weekly), where we discover the great commercial value and invite you to explore the bright business world.
。
.
审慎的通报流程、破格启用的检测手段，以及实验室级别的硬性规定，如何影响了整个过程的时效性？记者 | 许冰清编辑 | 陈 锐、王姗姗制图 | 程 星2020年1月28日，国家卫健委对外发布通报称，截至1月27日24时收到全国30个省（区、市）累计报告确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例达到4515例，累计死亡病例106例，疑似病例则增至6973例。
How has a prudent notification process, broken-down detection methods, and rigid laboratory-level regulations affected the timeliness of the process? By 2400 hours on January 27, Mr. Chen and Ms. Wang Shanshan had received a cumulative report of 4,515 new coronavirus infections in 30 provinces, districts and cities, with a cumulative total of 106 deaths and 6973 suspected cases.
摄影：第一财经 吴绵强目前，全国已有30个省启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
Photo: First Finance Wu Mianqiang At present, 30 provinces have launched major public health emergency first-level response.
为进一步防控疫情，国务院办公厅已决定全国春节假期延长至2月2日（农历正月初九），部分省市、企业自主要求的上班时间甚至更晚。
To further control the epidemic, the State Council's office has decided to extend the National Spring Festival to February 2, the ninth of the first month of the lunar month.
新型冠状病毒肺炎会在短时间内演变为一场全国性传染疫情，与其发端之地武汉早前对于相关病例的确诊、通报流程不通畅和重视程度不足有关。
The new coronavirus pneumonia will soon become a national epidemic of infectious diseases, and its origin in Wuhan earlier on the diagnosis of relevant cases, notification procedures and insufficient attention.
回顾武汉市卫健委1月份发布的疫情通报，1月5日通报59例确诊“不明原因肺炎”病例之后至1月11日晚24时之间，“新型冠状病毒”的确认过程让武汉减少了18名此前已诊断为“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”的患者，紧接着，在湖北省召开两会的1月11日至17日期间，武汉出现了“无新增确诊病例”的“空窗期”。
The confirmation of the new coronavirus reduced the number of patients diagnosed with "unidentified pneumonia" by 18 in Wuhan between January 11 and 2400 hours, followed by the "no new confirmed cases" in Wuhan between January 11 and 17.
拥有1100万人口的武汉，就这样错失了阻止恶性疫病进一步大范围扩散的关键的12天：1月6日至1月17日。
Wuhan, with a population of 11 million, missed the crucial 12-day period from January 6 to January 17 to stop the spread of the disease.
1月27日，武汉市长周先旺在接受央视专访时表示：“这次疫情其实各方面对我们信息的披露是不满意的，我们既有披露的不及时的一面，也有利用有效信息来完善工作不到位的地方。
"In fact, the parties to the epidemic are not satisfied with the disclosure of our information. We have both the untimely side of disclosure and the lack of effective information to improve the situation," said Zhou Xianwang, Wuhan city chief, in an interview with CCTV on January 27.
对于披露不及时，希望大家理解，它是传染病，传染病有传染病防治法，要依法披露，作为地方政府，我获得信息之后，授权之后才能披露，这一点在当时不被理解。
It was not understood at the time that the disclosure was not timely, that it was an infectious disease, that there was an infectious disease control law, that it should be disclosed in accordance with the law, and that, as a local government, I was authorized to disclose the information after I had obtained it.
”Play“只要有利于疫情控制，我们愿意革职以谢天下。
"We are willing to remove our jobs to thank the world if it is conducive to epidemic control.
”| 视频来源：央视但是整个武汉无新增病例的“平静”时间长达12天，这段时间里，医疗体系和疾控部门以及湖北省、武汉市政府的内部到底发生了什么，公众至今并不清楚知晓。
Video: CCTV But there were no new cases in Wuhan for 12 days, during which time it was unclear what exactly happened inside the medical system and disease-control authorities, as well as within the government of Hubei and Wuhan.
而上述官方回应也不算明确和详细。
Nor is the official response clear and detailed.
1月11日宣布确定新型冠状病毒和1月16日的试剂盒到位固然是两个关键时间节点，但这依然无法解释为何1月5日之后直到18日武汉官方口中才再次出现新增确诊病例。
The announcement on January 11 that a new coronavirus and a test kit on January 16 were in place are two key points in time, but that still does not explain why new cases were not officially confirmed until 18 January in Wuhan.
毕竟，在2019年12月31日至2020年1月5日这个时间段里，尽管为前期送检流程，确诊的“不明原因肺炎”病例依然从27例增至59例。
After all, between December 31, 2019 and January 5, 2020, the number of confirmed cases of "unexplained pneumonia" increased from 27 to 59, despite a pre-screening process.
此后，各大医院至少在收治病人之时涉及的检验监测环节也一定还在持续。
Since then, the major hospitals at least in the admission of patients involved in the inspection and monitoring process must also continue.
而第一财经记者了解到，当时虽然没有诊断试剂，但是实验室核酸检测可以确诊病例。
The first financial reporter learned that although there was no diagnostic reagent, but laboratory nucleic acid testing can confirm the case.
据病毒学专家介绍，一般需48小时。
According to virologists, it usually takes 48 hours.
湖北和武汉的政府公开信息显示，1月6日至10日、1月11日至17日分别召开了武汉市和湖北省的两会，这个时间段与新增病例空窗期内1月6日至1月10日疫情通报中断，以及1月11日至1月17日0个新增冠状病毒肺炎病例的时间起止点完全吻合。
From January 6 to 10 and January 11 to 17, respectively, Wuhan and Hubei provinces held the NPC sessions, according to government sources in Hubei and Wuhan. This period coincided with the cutoff point for the notification of the epidemic from January 6 to January 10, and the start and end of the zero new coronavirus pneumonia cases from January 11 to January 17.
2004年，全国人大经讨论、修订并通过了《传染病防治法》，同年原卫生部借鉴SARS经验，制定《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测实施方案》，后于2015年升级为《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测、排查和管理方案》。
In 2004, the National People's Congress discussed, amended and adopted the Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, and in the same year the former Ministry of Health drew on the experience of SARS and formulated the National Implementation Program for Monitoring Unknown Causes of Pneumonia, which was upgraded to the National Program for Monitoring, Screening and Management of Unexplained Pneumonia in 2015.
这些有法可依、有规可循的监管流程，理论上是想通过医疗机构和各级政府疾控部门的充分协作，保证如新型冠状病毒肺炎这样的传染病能够更早被发现、更快被控制。
These legal and regulatory procedures theoretically seek to ensure that infectious diseases such as the new coronavirus pneumonia can be detected earlier and brought under control more quickly through the full collaboration of medical institutions and disease control authorities at all levels of government.
但是为什么在武汉及湖北省的实践过程中，它们反而成为了阻碍信息及时公开的屏障？12月31日至1月10日不会人传人的“病毒性肺炎”2020年1月1日，全年第一份、共计4版的《湖北日报》出街，《武汉市卫健委通报肺炎疫情》的报道简讯出现在最后一版的右下角。
On January 1, 2020, the first and fourth edition of the Hubei Daily came out of the street, and the newsletter "Wuhan City Fitness Commission Report on Pneumonia" appeared in the lower right corner of the last edition.
在此前一天，这份报纸为全省2019年的发展成果做了12个整版的特别报道。
The previous day, the newspaper had devoted 12 full-page features to province-wide development outcomes in 2019.
《湖北日报》2020年1月1日第四版（电子版）截图《湖北日报》当时对肺炎疫情的这则报道，与12月31日武汉市卫健委发布的相关通报内容完全一致，且更为简略。
This report on pneumonia in Hubei Daily, the fourth edition of the Hubei Daily on January 1, 2020, is completely in line with the notice issued by Wuhan Health Commission on December 31.
由于当时医疗研究机构仍在检测病原、调查感染原因，直至1月11日，武汉市卫健委对外的信息通报中都以“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”称呼这起新型病毒疫情。
As the medical research institutions were still testing the pathogen, investigating the cause of infection, until January 11, Wuhan City Health Commission in the external communication to call the "unknown causes of viral pneumonia" the new virus epidemic.
这一阶段的疫情通报并非每天都有，缺失的天数（7天）甚至比通报的天数（4天）更多，而1月6日至1月9日数据则完全缺失。
This phase of the epidemic is not reported on a daily basis, with more days missing (7 days) than reported (4 days), while data from 6 January to 9 January are completely missing.
武汉卫健委这一阶段发布的通报中，一直在强调以下几点：所有患者均在武汉市医疗机构接受隔离治疗；未发现明确的人传人证据；未发现医务人员感染。
Wuhan health committee issued this phase of the circular, has been stressing the following points: all patients in Wuhan city medical institutions were isolated treatment; no clear evidence of human-to-human; no medical staff was found to be infected.
其中早期通报中，还相对强调了病例与华南海鲜市场的接触史。
Among the early notifications, there was also a relative emphasis on the history of contact between cases and the South China seafood market.
1月27日，中国疾控中心病毒病所对外披露，从武汉华南海鲜市场的585份环境样本中检测到33份样品含有新型冠状病毒核酸，确认了病毒来源于华南海鲜市场销售的野生动物。
On January 27, the China CDC Virus Disease Institute disclosed that 33 samples from 585 environmental samples from the south China seafood market in Wuhan had been found to contain new coronavirus nucleic acids, confirming that the virus had originated from wild animals on the South China seafood market.
这些样本是12月31日和1月12日分两次在市场内采集的，其中12月31日采集515份。
The samples were collected in two markets on 31 December and 12 January, of which 515 were collected on 31 December.
但是，医学期刊《柳叶刀》于1月24日发布的一则论文显示，在武汉市卫健委1月11日公布的41名患者中，12月1日发病的首例患者并无华南海鲜市场暴露史。
But the first patient to develop symptoms on December 1 did not have a history of exposure in the South China seafood market, according to a paper released on January 24 by the medical journal Lancet.
同期刊物发布的另一则论文显示，2019年12月29日至2020年1月4日期间在武汉的6位深圳旅客，在全无华南海鲜市场暴露史、无野生动物接触史的情况下，因在武汉市当地医院看望亲属感染了新型冠状病毒。
Another paper published in the same period shows that six Shenzhen travellers in Wuhan between December 29, 2019 and January 4, 2020 contracted the new coronavirus while visiting relatives at a local hospital in Wuhan without any history of exposure or exposure to wild animals.
依据《全国不明原因肺炎病例监测、排查和管理方案》，当武汉市医疗机构的医务人员发现符合不明原因肺炎定义的病例后，应立即报告机构相关部门，在12小时内组织本单位专家组进行会诊和排查，并进行网络直报，同时向市级疾控机构报告。
According to the National Program for Monitoring, Screening and Management of Unknown Causes of Pneumonia, when the medical staff of Wuhan medical institutions find cases that meet the definition of pneumonia for unknown reasons, they should immediately report the cases to the relevant department of the agency, organize consultation and check-up by their own expert group within 12 hours, and report directly to the municipal CDC.
疾控机构接到聚集性不明原因肺炎病例报告后，应立即进行流行病学调查，同时组织对病例的密切接触者进行登记、追踪和医学观察，并报省级卫生行政部门备案、审核。
When the CDC receives a report of a case of conglomerate pneumonia, it shall immediately conduct an epidemiological investigation and organize the registration, follow-up and medical observation of close contacts of the case, and report the case to the provincial health administrative department for record and examination.
但由于当时病原鉴定和病因溯源工作仍在进行，无法确定病原病因，即无法将其列入“法定传染病”行列，也就无法组织更大规模的疫情排查及通报过程。
But because pathogen identification and etiology were still ongoing, it was not possible to identify the etiology of the disease, that is, to classify it as a "statutory infectious disease," and to organize a larger-scale outbreak detection and notification process.
即使是医院内部的隔离措施也做得并不到位。
Even isolation measures within hospitals are not in place.
一位在医院被感染的医生在接受北青深一度采访时证实，他所在的科室大约于1月7、8日开始收治“不明肺炎病人”，第一位病例出现发热症状后马上做了肺部CT和呼吸病毒、支原体、衣原体检测。
An infected doctor at the hospital confirmed in an interview with Beiqing Sheng that his department began treating patients with "unknown pneumonia" on January 7 and 8. The first case was tested for pulmonary CT and respiratory virus, mycoplasma and chlamydia immediately after fever developed.
其中肺部CT检测出来的是肺部磨玻璃病变，符合新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的表现，医生曾经提出应该做核酸检测确诊，但是”专家组的人说他们无法决定做不做检测“。
The lung CT, which detects lung-grinding glass lesions consistent with the appearance of a new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, has been suggested by doctors to be diagnosed with nucleic acid tests, but "the team said they could not decide not to do so."
随后这位医生也于1月10日在工作中被感染，并且直到1月24日才做上核酸检测，至北青报1月26日发稿时仍未算真正确诊。
The doctor was also infected at work on 10 January and did not undergo a nucleic acid test until 24 January, when the newspaper was released on 26 January.
1月11日至1月16日“难确诊”导致新增病例“空窗期”1月11日，《湖北日报》为当时已经召开的全省两会拿出了3个整版，但对当时武汉的疫情通报并未跟进。
Hubei Daily on January 11 produced three full editions for the provincial congress, but did not follow up on the notification of the outbreak in Wuhan at the time.
也正是在这一天，武汉市卫健委的通报中首次确认了疫情名称，同时下调了确诊病例人数。
It is also on this day, Wuhan City Health Commission in the notification of the first confirmed epidemic name, while reducing the number of confirmed cases.
1月11日，武汉市卫建委通报称，病原核酸检测已完成，“国家、省市专家组对收入医院观察、治疗的患者临床表现、流行病学史、实验室检测结果等进行综合研判”后，初步诊断此前的59例“不明原因的病毒性肺炎”患者中，有41例属于“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例”。
On January 11, Wuhan city health committee reported that the nucleic acid test has been completed, "the state, provincial and municipal expert group on the income hospital observation, treatment of patients clinical manifestations, epidemiological history, laboratory test results, and so on," a preliminary diagnosis of the previous 59 "unknown viral pneumonia," 41 of the "new coronavirus infection cases.
而在1月11日至1月17日湖北省两会期间，武汉市卫健委的疫情通报虽然恢复了日报制，但每日的核心内容基本一致：无新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例；密切接触者中没有发现相关病例。
But between January 11 and January 17 in Hubei Province, the report on the epidemic situation of the Wuhan Health and Physical Fitness Commission was renewed, but the daily core content was basically the same: no new cases of coronavirus infection were diagnosed in pneumonia, and no cases were found among those in close contact.
事后，面对社会“11日至16日期间为何没有新增确诊病例”的诘问，武汉市卫健委曾回应称，主要原因是1月16日之前，整个湖北省都没有可供快速检测新型冠状病毒的“试剂盒”，病毒检测要经历辖区、市、省、全国四级疾控中心，结果从送出到返回约需3-5天。
Later, in the face of social heckles about why there were no new confirmed cases between January 16 and January 16, Wuhan city health committee responded that the main reason is that before January 16, there was no "kit" for rapid detection of the new coronavirus, which takes three to five days from dispatch to return.
为解决检测环节的困难，1月下旬，有能力的医药机构已多开始针对新型冠状病毒的试剂盒研发，但疾控行业人士曾表示，确诊并不是只有试剂盒这一种手段。
In late January, competent medical organizations began to develop kits for the new coronavirus, but the CDC industry has said the diagnosis is not just a kit.
宾西法尼亚大学病理检验系副教授王萍曾撰文表示，检测病毒可以通过试剂盒，也可用基因测序法，只不过测序法对仪器要求高，速度也慢一些，不适合大批量筛查。
Wang Ping, an associate professor in the Department of Pathology at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote that the virus can be tested either in a kit or by sequencing genes, but the sequencing method is too demanding and slow for large-scale screening.
理论上，首诊医院可以了解疑似病人的流行病学史，并掌握包括临床表现、血细胞实验室检查、胸部影像学结果在内的一系列表征指标，确认其符合《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊断方案（试行）》中的病例定义。
Theoretically, the primary hospital can obtain an epidemiological history of the suspected patient and a series of indicators including clinical manifestation, blood cell laboratory examination, chest imaging results, confirming its compliance with the case definition in the Diagnostic Scheme for Pneumonia for New Coronavirus Infection (Trial).
但实际确诊环节却要严格依靠各级疾控中心对采集的病毒样本做检测、复检、确认。
However, the actual diagnosis should rely strictly on all levels of the CDC virus samples collected for testing, re-examination, confirmation.
从流行病学调查处理到会诊、排查再到病例管理——流程之复杂，是新型冠状病毒肺炎早期在武汉、在湖北、乃至全国多地“难确诊”的关键原因之一。
From epidemiological investigation to consultation, screening and case management - the complexity of the process is one of the key reasons for the early diagnosis of the new coronavirus pneumonia in Wuhan, Hubei and even many parts of the country.
不过，在没有新增确诊病例的日子里，武汉市卫健委还于1月13日至14日间，接待了一个港澳台地区专家组的实地考察。
However, in the absence of new confirmed cases, Wuhan city health committee from January 13 to 14, received a team of experts from the Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan region on the site.
据国家卫健委国际合作司港澳台办公室的相关消息，在武汉期间，港澳台专家组“对疫情防控与应对处置、医疗诊治、病原检测等进行了全面考察，与参与此次疫情防控和患者诊治的国家、省、市级专家进行面对面交流，咨询了解了防治相关信息，并实地参观疾控机构的实验室和收治病例的医疗机构”，还提出了相关的工作建议，但具体的建议内容并未披露。
During their stay in Wuhan, the team of experts from Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan conducted face-to-face exchanges with national, provincial and municipal experts involved in the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, consulted with experts at the national, provincial and municipal levels, and conducted on-site visits to the CDC laboratories and medical institutions handling cases.
1月17日至1月22日以“科研试剂”名义引入的试剂盒1月17日，武汉确诊的新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例数在通报中开始蹿升，在1天内增加了17例。
The number of cases of pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus confirmed by Wuhan on January 17 and January 22 has jumped as the number of cases diagnosed in Wuhan has jumped by 17 within a day.
而到了1月20日，武汉市内的确诊病例在当天翻了近两番、达到了198人。
By January 20, the number of confirmed cases in Wuhan had nearly quadrupled to 198 the same day.
1月18日，组长钟南山教授带领的国家卫健委高级别专家组再次到达武汉。
January 18, the leader of Professor Zhong Nan Shan led by the high-level expert group again arrived in Wuhan.
此后，随着钟南山对媒体表示新冠病毒有人传人现象、有医务人员感染后，1月21日起，国家卫健委开始通报全国新冠肺炎数据，湖北卫健委从1月22日起通报包括武汉在内的全省数据，武汉卫健委不再单独通报相关数据。
Since then, as Zhong Nan Shan to the media said the new crown virus human-to-person phenomenon, infected medical personnel, the National Health Commission began to report the new crown pneumonia data, Hubei Wei health committee from January 22 reported the entire province, including Wuhan data, Wuhan Health Commission will no longer separately inform the relevant data.
此前，国家卫健委已经决定将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎纳入与SARS、H7N9禽流感等同类的“乙类法定传染病“管理，并采取甲类传染病（鼠疫、霍乱）级别的预防、控制措施。
Earlier, the National Fitness and Health Commission has decided to treat pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus into the "Class B statutory infectious diseases" like SARS and H7N9 avian influenza, and to take preventive and control measures at the level of Class A infectious diseases (plague, cholera).
1月22日，《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控方案（第二版）》等一系列专项方案，也由国家卫健委印发。
On January 22, a series of special programs, such as the "Pneumonia Prevention and Control Program for New Coronavirus Infection (2nd Edition)," were also issued by the National Health Commission.
这意味着，医院和疾控部门终于可以按照规定，进行快速上报、处置和调查的合作。
This means that hospitals and disease control departments can finally cooperate in rapid reporting, disposal and investigation, as required.
首批针对新型冠状病毒生产的PCR试剂盒，最早是在1月16日被下发到各省级疾控中心。
The first PCR kits for the production of the new coronavirus were first distributed to provincial CDC on January 16.
在一个试剂盒内，实验者可以对50个乃至更多的疑似样本做平行检测，且在2至3小时内即可看到结果，“快速确诊”终于成为可能。
In a kit, subjects can run parallel tests on 50 or more suspected samples and see the results within two to three hours, making a "rapid diagnosis" possible.
在中国疾控中心首批认定可生产试剂盒的企业名单中，只有3家机构入选。
Of the first Chinese CDC companies to identify test kits, only three were selected.
3家机构在接受媒体采访时都表示，已经是开足马力。
In interviews with the media, all three said they were running at full capacity.
以入选的上海捷诺生物科技有限公司情况为例，公司在1月16日就已生产了可供7.5万人份使用的试剂盒，并对外交付。
Consider the case of Shanghai-based Tenor Biotechnology Co., which on January 16 produced and delivered kits for 75,000 people.
但当试剂盒被运往各地，它们最先到达的地点依然是各省市的疾控中心，而不是一线的医院。
But when kits are shipped, the first places they arrive are still provincial and municipal disease control centers, not front-line hospitals.
这么做又是因为“合规性”——直到1月27日，各家公司生产的新型冠状病毒检测试剂盒都未拿到国家药监局的上市批件，只能以科研名义提供给疾控系统使用。
This is because of "compliance" - until January 27, companies produced a new coronavirus detection kit did not get the SADA listing approval, can only be provided to the disease control system in the name of scientific research.
按照正常流程，一个核酸检测试剂盒从研发到获得国家药监局的注册证，一般需要3-5年时间。
According to the normal procedure, it usually takes 3-5 years for a nucleic acid test kit to be developed and certified by the State Administration of Pharmacy.
不过，此次因疫情紧急，国家药监局决定对疫情防控所需药械全部实行应急审批，已属于“特事特办”。
However, due to the urgency of the outbreak, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision decided to implement the emergency approval of all necessary equipment for epidemic prevention and control.
之江生物也是此次试剂盒拿到注册证的企业之一，公司副总经理倪卫琴在接受《经济观察报》的采访时表示，包括设计开发、验证、交叉反应、临床数据审查在内的审批标准“跟原来的要求一样，一点都没有降低”，只是审批流程上有了优化，此前一般按顺序依次进行的多个注册流程可以同步进行，压缩了注册时间。
In an interview with the Economic Observer, Ni Weiqin, deputy general manager of the company, said approval criteria including design development, validation, cross-reaction and clinical data review were "the same as the original requirements," although the approval process was optimized so that multiple registration processes, which had previously been sequenced sequentially, could be synchronized, reducing registration times.
1月23日至今全市10家机构，每天可检测样本近2000份1月22日，国家卫健委更新发布了《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第三版）》，针对“病例的发现与报告”环节，删去了医疗机构需将标本送至疾控中心进行病原检测的相关内容。
January 23 - January 23, the city's 10 institutions, every day can detect nearly 2,000 samples of January 22, the National Health Commission updated the "New coronavirus infection diagnosis and treatment programme (trial version 3)," the "Case Detection and Reporting" section, the medical institutions need to send specimens to the CDC for pathogen testing.
考虑到大量疑似病例的确诊压力，武汉市也遵循这一制度变化，开始指定各定点救治医院、发热定点诊疗医院的对口帮扶医院、以及武汉市疾控中心内“具备相应防护级别的生物安全实验室”开展样本的病原核酸检测工作。
Taking into account the confirmed pressure of a large number of suspected cases, Wuhan followed this system change and began to designate designated treatment hospitals, corresponding hospitals for fever diagnosis and treatment, and Wuhan CDC "bio-safety laboratories with corresponding protection level" to carry out the detection of pathogenic nucleic acids.
不过， 武汉市内首批获此许可的机构目前仅有10家，预计全部运行起来每天可检测样本近2000份。
However, Wuhan City is currently the first to get such permission only 10 institutions, expected to be fully operational every day can detect nearly 2,000 samples.
对于检测实验室的生物安全级别提出要求，主要是因为检测新型冠状病毒所用的血液或其他体液可能具有高传染性，检测和离心过程中产生的气溶胶可能感染检测人员。
The requirement to test laboratory biosafety levels is mainly due to the potentially highly infectious nature of the blood or other body fluids used in the detection of the new coronavirus, and the possibility that aerosols generated during the detection and centrifugation process could infect detection personnel.
比如，SARS病毒的检测就要求实验室达到三级生物安全水平，埃博拉病毒则要求四级生物安全水平。
For example, the detection of the SARS virus requires a level 3 biosafety level in the laboratory, while Ebola requires a level 4 biosafety level.
而在实验室的生物安全评级过程中，也必须考虑通风、气压、样本流向（指样本从病房通过什么途径到检验实验室，从哪个门进入，到达实验台后从哪个仪器到哪个仪器，废弃样本怎么处理，从哪个门出实验室等系列流程）等方面，检测人员也要经过特殊训练。
In the laboratory biosafety grading process, it is also important to consider ventilation, air pressure, sample flow (that is, the route through which the sample passes from the ward to the testing laboratory, which gate to enter, from which instrument to which instrument upon arrival, how to dispose of the discarded sample, from which door exit laboratory, etc.).
从仪器上来说，也至少要有离心机、核酸提取仪器、实时聚合酶链式反应仪器等。
From the instrument, at least centrifuges, nucleic acid extraction instruments, real-time polymerase chain reaction instruments and so on.
所以，不是每家医院都有条件对新型冠状病毒做检测。
Therefore, not every hospital has the conditions for the new coronavirus test.
如果遵循SARS病毒的要求筛选实验室，全国范围内的绝大多数一级、二级医院都会被否决，只有大部分三甲医院、疾控系统及部分的检验检疫单位符合要求，而这也导致湖北省内黄冈、鄂州、孝感等城市，病患依旧面临确诊难的问题。
If laboratories are screened for SARS virus, the vast majority of level-I and level-II hospitals nationwide will be rejected. Only most triple-A hospitals, disease control systems and some inspection and quarantine units meet the requirements. As a result, patients in Huanggang, Huangzhou, Hubei and other cities in Hubei Province still face difficulties in being diagnosed.
对于实验室级别不足的医院而言，即使拿到试剂盒，仍无法自行完成确诊，只能用于非正规地初筛病人。
For low-level laboratory hospitals, even if the kits were available, the diagnosis could not be completed on their own and could only be used for informal screening of patients.
但相比此前众多高度疑似患者迟迟无法被确诊的状况而言，这已是很大的改观。
But this is a big improvement over the previous situation where many highly suspected patients have been slow to be diagnosed.
根据第一财经1月28日发布的快讯，世界卫生组织（WHO）在1月26日及27日的新型冠状病毒报告中，将新型冠状病毒疫情全球范围风险改为高风险。
The World Health Organization (WHO), in its new report on coronavirus on January 26 and 27, changed the global risk of a new coronavirus outbreak to a high risk, according to a report released on January 28 by the Financial Intelligence Bureau.
WHO表示，此前发布的报告中，错误地将新型冠状病毒疫情对全球风险总结为中等，其实为高风险。
In a previous report, the WHO said, 'The new coronavirus outbreak' was wrongly summed up as a medium-risk global risk, which was in fact a high risk.
本文版权归第一财经所有，未经许可不得转载或翻译。
The copyright of this article belongs to First Finance and cannot be reproduced or translated without permission.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特别报道：1月6日之后，12天病例零新增之谜。
Special Report: After January 6, 12 days of zero new cases of enigma.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "第一财经YiMagazine";。
var nickname = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
var msg_title = "特别报道：1月6日之后，12天病例零新增之谜";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Special report: AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; 12 days after January 6.
var msg_desc = "审慎的通报流程、破格启用的检测手段、以及实验室级别的硬性规定，如何影响了整个过程的时效性？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; How & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="第一财经YiMagazine";。
var title = & quot; First Finance Yi Magazine & quot;;;
