一位被隔离者的自述：年三十从湖北“逃”回杭州，我流了无数次泪。
An isolated self-account: Thirty years from Hubei "escape" back to Hangzhou, I shed countless tears.
阿基米。
Archimi.
世间有味                      。
There is flavor in the world.
世间有味。
There is flavor in the world.
岁月无情，人间有爱。
Time and tide wait for no man.
。
.
湖北是我的老家，杭州是我的家口述/阿基米从湖北回到杭州，我们一家三口开始14天的隔离生活。
Hubei is my hometown, Hangzhou is my home oral / Akimi from Hubei back to Hangzhou, our family began a 14-day isolation life.
本以为可能遭遇到歧视，结果——社区说：“我们会保证您的隐私，谢谢您的配合。
The community said, "We will guarantee your privacy. Thank you for your cooperation.
”物业说：“您受委屈了，谢谢您的理解。
"Property said:" You are wronged, thank you for your understanding.
”这座充满温情和担当的城，就是我爱的那个家啊。
"This city of tenderness and responsibility is the one I love.
01一改再改的返程，终于躲开“封城”1月18日那天早上5点钟我们一家三口就起床了。
01.The family got up at 5 o'clock that morning on Jan. 18th, when our family got up.
已经两年没回湖北老家了，这次早点回去给我爸妈拜年。
Has not returned to Hubei home for two years, this time back to my parents early New Year call.
完全不曾预料，这趟旅程居然会如此坎坷。
Unexpectedly, the trip turned out to be so bumpy.
出发前，老公提醒我们春运火车站人流大、空气差，于是大人小孩都戴上口罩出发了。
Before we set out, my husband reminded us that Chunyun Railway Station was crowded with people and bad air, so adults and children put on masks and set off.
▲我们一家三口年三十从安陆返回杭州绿皮火车晃悠晃悠带着我们来到了武昌站，下车时我们全家依旧是全副武装的“蒙面党”。
The family of three returned from Anlu to Hangzhou green train to take us to Wuchang Station, when our family is still heavily armed "masked party."
如今坐绿皮火车的人少了，武昌站下车的人并不多，也基本上没有几个人戴口罩。
There are fewer people on green-skinned trains, not many people get off at Wuchang Station, and few people wear masks.
我们下车直奔地下停车场，家人已经在那边等我们了。
We got off and headed for the underground parking lot, where our families were waiting for us.
我老家在湖北安陆，车开了两个多小时，终于到了朝思暮想的老家，亲人们已经准备好了可口的饭菜在我们了，真高兴啊。
My hometown in Anlu, Hubei Province, driving for more than two hours, finally arrived at the homesickness, relatives have prepared delicious food in us, I am very happy.
谁也不会想到，一天后，湖北的天就变了。
No one would have thought that the sky in Hubei changed a day later.
1月20日晚上，钟南山院士在新闻中提到了武汉疫情，当晚孩子的幼儿园发来消息统计孩子的出行情况，我们和哥哥嫂子一下警觉了起来。
The evening of January 20, Zhong Nan Shan academician in the news referred to the Wuhan epidemic, that night the child's kindergarten sent news of the children's travel statistics, sister-in-law and our brother-in-law were alarmed.
我赶紧下单给家里买了100多个口罩、消毒液，改签了从武汉出发的回程机票，改从宜昌出发。
I hastened to order home to buy more than 100 masks, disinfectant, re-signed from Wuhan return air tickets, from Yichang instead.
我对爸爸说，不要跟武汉回来的亲戚吃饭了，也不要再到处走动了。
I told Dad not to eat with relatives back in Wuhan, and not to walk around any more.
很快武汉封城，湖北黄冈、赤壁也相继开始封城，情况比我们想象的更糟。
Soon the city of Wuhan, Huanggang in Huanggang and Chibi began to close down, the situation is worse than we thought.
1月24日大年三十。
January 24th, Chinese New Year's Eve.
我大早在网上下了单，给家里囤了米、油、蔬菜、水等生活必需品。
I put the order online early, for home hoard rice, oil, vegetables, water and other necessities of life.
吃早饭的时候，我们开始发愁万一这里也封了，该怎么回杭州上班。
At breakfast, we began to worry about how to get back to work in Hangzhou in case it was also closed.
封多久完全不能预料，总不能两个人都失业吧。
How long it will last is quite uncertain. You can't lose both of you.
浙江的亲人也一个电话接一个电话来催，能早点回来就赶紧回来吧。
Zhejiang relatives also a telephone call to urge, can come back as soon as possible hurry back bar.
家人群里亲戚们陆续发来消息，先是家在广州的三叔说，买到回去的票了，一会儿就出发，接着在深圳上班的堂哥说准备马上开车返回深圳。
First, his third uncle in Guangzhou said he had got tickets to go back to, then left in a few minutes. Then his cousin, who works in Shenzhen, said he would drive back to Shenzhen immediately.
我赶紧看了看火车票信息，居然还有两趟回杭州的火车，下午经停我们市，而且还有票。
I hastened to read the train ticket information, there are two trains back to Hangzhou, the afternoon through our city, and tickets.
爸爸说，那就赶紧买了走，再不走，怕是走不了了。
Dad said, then hurry to buy away, and then do not go, I'm afraid it is not going to go.
你不用担心我们，我们都好好的，不会乱跑的。
You don't have to worry about us. We're all fine. We're not running.
▲返程火车票下午四点的火车，买到了硬卧（上车补了软卧）。
The return train ticket bought a hard berth at four in the afternoon.
我们匆匆吃了午饭，开始收拾行李。
We had a quick lunch and began to pack.
我抱着妈妈大哭了一场，我说，妈妈，我真想在家陪着你们啊，我们年夜饭都没有吃。
I hugged my mother and cried, I said, Mom, I really want to stay at home with you ah, we did not eat dinner.
妈妈说，傻孩子，你和xx在杭州有家有工作啊，我们总不能养你们一辈子，总是要回的。
Mom said, silly child, you and xx have a home in Hangzhou have a job, we can not support you for life, always want to get back.
老公跟单位报备了回杭的消息，女儿也打电话给幼儿园老师，说她要回杭州的家了，回家后会好好隔离的。
Husband and unit reported back to hang news, daughter also called kindergarten teacher, said she would go back to Hangzhou home, home will be well isolated.
老师叮嘱孩子路上一定戴好口罩，女儿保证睡觉也戴着。
The teacher told the child to wear a mask on the way, and the daughter promised to sleep.
哥哥开车把我们送到了火车站，我们戴上双层口罩，拎着箱子进站了。
Brother drove us to the train station, we put on a double mask, carrying boxes into the station.
亲人们，不要进来送我们，不要。
Relatives, don't come in and give us a ride. No.
▲全家戴着口罩返程老家的火车站里，这个时候并没有人测体温。
The family returned to the train station in their hometown wearing a mask, and no one took a temperature test at that time.
这是个不起眼的小站，来往的人一直不多。
It was a humble station, and not many people came and went.
大家都戴着口罩，异常沉默。
Everyone was wearing masks and very silent.
我们一家三口站在角落里，尽量离人远一些，再远一些。
The three of us were standing in the corner, trying to stay away from people, further afield.
突然隐约听见有人在喊我的名字，我扭头一看，是爸爸。
Suddenly I heard someone calling my name. I looked back and saw that it was Dad.
他戴着口罩，隔着候车室的玻璃窗，在呼喊我朝我挥手。
He was wearing a mask and waving at me through the window of the waiting room.
我忍不住又流泪了，连连摆手让爸爸赶紧回家。
I couldn't help crying again, and I waved my father home quickly.
这趟从成都发往上海的列车，湖北省内本来经停很多小站，但是我们上车时，就只有我们市和另外一个市没有封，还能乘坐。
This train from Chengdu to Shanghai, Hubei Province originally stopped a lot of small stations, but when we got into the car, only our city and another city unsealed, can still ride.
当晚，我们市也封城了。
That night, our city was closed.
▲途中向社区报备上车后，我跟杭州的社区报备回家的消息，告知抵杭后准备自我隔离。
On the way to the community to report to the bus, I and Hangzhou community to report home, after the arrival of self-isolation.
社区表示理解，并告诉我们会安排医生上门测体温，希望我们积极配合。
The community showed understanding and told us that we would arrange for a doctor to take a temperature check and hoped we would cooperate actively.
社区还说，会保证我们的隐私。
The community also said it would guarantee our privacy.
这几天一直都在跟孩子解释冠状病毒，她有一定的认识，所以一路上都异常乖巧。
She has been explaining the coronavirus to her children for the past few days. She knows something about it, so she is very clever all the way.
软卧车厢很闷热，我们一家三口把门关上，除了上厕所，几乎寸步不出。
The soft sleeper was so stuffy that our family shut the door and hardly took a step out except to use the toilet.
▲女儿连睡觉都戴着口罩女儿果真连睡觉都戴着口罩，小脸憋得通红，看了真心疼。
Daughter even sleep wearing a mask daughter really even wear a mask, small face pent up red, it really hurt to see.
列车员过来说，可以预订晚餐了。
The conductor came over and said he could reserve dinner.
我毫无胃口，但是这是大年夜，总要吃顿热乎饭菜，孩子也要吃啊。
I have no appetite, but it's New Year's Eve. I always have a hot meal and my children have to eat it.
▲在火车上吃了一顿难忘的年夜饭我们全家订了一份鸡腿套餐，三个人一起吃完了这顿难忘的年夜饭。
On the train to eat an unforgettable dinner we ordered a chicken leg set meal, three people together to eat this memorable New Year dinner.
02社区物业严正以待，隔离生活倍感温暖1月25日火车上午抵杭。
02 the community property is waiting for, isolation life feels warm January 25 train arrive Hangzhou in the morning.
我们花一百多元打了出租车回到郊区的家，并保存了车票。
We took a taxi for over a hundred dollars to our suburban home and saved our tickets.
到家后，全家洗澡、用品消毒。
After arriving home, the family took a shower and disinfected the supplies.
我还在洗头时，社区医生、社区工作人员、物业来了。
While I was washing my hair, a community doctor, a community worker, a property arrived.
全家人赶紧戴上口罩，开门迎接我们新年里的第一波客人。
The family quickly put on their masks and opened the door to welcome our first New Year guests.
社区医生给我们测量了体温、登记了信息、发放了防疫告知书。
The community doctor took our temperature, registered the information, and issued a vaccination notice.
我说家里口罩只剩几个了，社区医生还送了我一包一次性口罩，医生说，口罩其实他们也不多了。
I said there were only a few masks left, and the community doctor gave me a bag of disposable masks, which the doctors said they were not.
社区和物业叮嘱我们，这14天就不要出门了，有困难就跟他们说。
Communities and properties tell us not to go out these 14 days, and tell them if you are in trouble.
社区走后，我们烧了面条简单吃了一顿，我用买菜APP买了一些必需品，就开始召开家庭会议。
After the community left, we cooked the noodles and had a simple meal. I bought some necessities with the APP and started a family meeting.
会议的主持人是我女儿，她说主题是：加强安全意识。
The host of the meeting was my daughter, who said the theme was "Enhancing security awareness."
▲每天记录体温三个人都明确了14天里各自的分工，比如女儿的任务是坚决不出门、教妈妈给娃娃扎头发，妈妈的任务是做好每顿饭，爸爸每天监测体温、洗碗扫地……1月26日买菜APP的小哥这时候还是上门送菜的，一听到他们敲门，我老公就喊：“放到门口好了!”吃饭是没问题了，可是丢垃圾还成问题，总不能放在家里发臭。
Keep a Daily Record of Body Temperature Each day the three men clarified the division of labour over a 14-day period. For example, their daughter's job was to stay in the house and teach the mother to dress her hair.
我微信跟物业求助，请他们帮忙把放在门口的垃圾倒掉。
I wrote to the property for help in emptying the rubbish out of the door.
▲跟物业的对话物业管家说好的，他还说：“委屈你们了，谢谢您的理解和配合。
Conversation with the property manager said good, he also said: "I have wronged you, thank you for your understanding and cooperation.
”这句贴心的话，让我又流泪了。
"I cried again with that kind words.
1月27日很快，小区的进出口也开始严加管控。
Soon after January 27, the import and export of small areas began to be tightly controlled.
物业把两个出入口关闭为一个，业主进出需要测量体温，快递禁止进入。
The property closes the two entrances and exits into and out of the building.
▲买的菜放在大门口买的菜到不了家了，告知物业后，他们每天都会帮我们放到家门口。
Buy vegetables in front of the door to buy the food can not reach home, inform the property, they will help us to put in front of the door every day.
最近物业真的特别辛苦，工作量很大，让他们帮忙取东西真是有些不好意思。
Recently the property is really hard work, a lot of work, let them help to get things really embarrassed.
但是最近菜在网上也很难买，想买的总是买不齐，有的时候要买点东西只能早上下一单，晚上下一单，物业也一点不嫌麻烦，一天帮我们取两次菜。
But recently the food on the Internet is also very difficult to buy, want to buy is always uneven, sometimes to buy something can only buy the next order in the morning, the next order in the evening, the property is not too troublesome, a day to help us get two dishes.
每天早上，老公会给我们逐一量体温，记录在本子上。
Every morning, my husband would take the temperature of each of us and record it in the book.
等接到来自派出所、社区、疾控中心的电话时，他会认真汇报我们的情况。
When he receives a call from a police station, community, CDC, he will report us carefully.
孩子的幼儿园也几次发来消息，我们填报相关信息，并汇报一家人的情况。
The child's kindergarten also sent several messages, we filled in the relevant information and reported the family.
我们把垃圾清到门口约一米远的地方，再跟物业发微信，过一会儿他会告诉我们已经清理好了。
We clean up the garbage about a meter away from the door and send a message to the property. He'll tell us in a few minutes that it's cleared.
买菜也是。
So is buying vegetables.
菜到了，跟物业说一声，他们悄悄放到门口一米远的地方，再过一会儿微信告诉我们，已经送到了。
The dish arrived, told the property, they quietly put a meter away from the door, and a little later a message told us that it had been delivered.
▲买菜APP上买的菜他们来收垃圾和送菜时，我们根本一点声音都听不见。
Buy vegetables APP dishes They came to collect garbage and deliver vegetables, we did not hear a sound.
杭州，就是我爱的那个家啊！1月28日我们虽然大门不出二门不迈，但是通过网络也能接收各种信息。
Hangzhou, the house I love, can receive all kinds of information through the internet even though we don't have two doors on January 28th.
杭州市政府每天召开发布会，公布疫情和举措，虽然感染人数还是在上升，但人们心里还是比较放心的。
Hangzhou Municipal Government held a daily press conference to announce the outbreak and measures, although the number of infected people is still rising, but people are more reassured.
让人特别感动的一点是，在很多地方对武汉人、湖北人说“不”，拒绝进入时，杭州市大气接纳了因封城而回不了家的许多武汉旅客。
It is particularly touching that, in many places, Wuhan people and Hubei people said "no", and when Hangzhou refused to enter the city, Hangzhou atmosphere accepted many Wuhan tourists who could not return home because of the blockade.
他们的航班改签杭州，杭州都接纳了，而且毫不隐瞒第一时间通知了市民，安排武汉旅客入住党校，甚至还安排了萌萌的机器人来送餐，避免交叉感染。
Their flights were re-signed to Hangzhou, and Hangzhou accepted them, and made no secret of the first notification to the public, arranging for Wuhan passengers to move to the party school, and even arranging for budding robots to deliver meals and avoid cross-infection.
看到这些新闻时，真的特别感恩“同胞”这个词。
When I read this news, I really appreciate the word "compatriot."
我们所在的社区，社区党委每天都会发布疫情，包括有多少人在居家隔离，有多少人在酒店隔离。
In our community, community party committees issue daily updates on the epidemic, including how many people are isolated at home and how many in hotels.
社区还告诉大家，居家隔离的虽然没有派保安直接在门口守着，但是监控室里都看得到，也希望大家互相监督。
The community also told everyone that the home isolated although no security guards directly guarding the door, but the monitoring room can see, also hope that everyone to monitor each other.
待在家里确实有些无聊，特别是还有一个5岁的孩子。
It's a bit boring to stay at home, especially with a 5-year-old.
幼儿园老师跟我说，如果孩子无聊，可以虽然给她打电话，她很开心的。
The kindergarten teacher told me that if the child was bored, she would be happy to call her.
▲一家人跳操为了保证孩子的运动量，我们决定每天在家跳跳操，早晚各一次，早上女儿领操，晚上老公领操。
The Family Jump To keep the kids active, we decided to do some jumping exercises every day, one in the morning and one in the morning.
怕吵到楼下，我们跟楼下邻居说了一声。
Afraid of making a noise downstairs, we spoke to our neighbor downstairs.
她说：“跳吧，跳吧！”1月29日女儿特别想吃饺子。
She said: "Jump, jump!" January 29th her daughter particularly want dumplings.
可是连着几天我没买到她喜欢的速冻饺子，面粉也只剩小半斤。
But for several days I didn't buy her favorite frozen dumplings, and the flour was only half a kilo.
我决定还是给她包饺子，稍微做几个，也算是亲子活动打发时间。
I decided to make dumplings for her, do a few, is also a parent-child activities to pass the time.
▲在家包饺子水放太多了，饺子失败了，烙了大饼。
Making dumplings at home put too much water, dumplings failed, branded a large cake.
邻居知道后，马上给我送来了一大袋亲手做的速冻饺子。
When the neighbors learned about it, they brought me a large bag of hand-made frozen dumplings.
他敲敲我家门，我让他放在门口，说不尽的感谢。
He knocked at my door and I asked him to leave it at the door.
女儿吃了满满一碗饺子。
My daughter ate a bowl full of dumplings.
晚上跟湖北的妈妈视频，我担心她，她说家里一切都好，物资充足，还可以打打麻将，爸爸也不外出跑步了，就在跑步机上跑跑。
At night with Hubei mother video, I worried about her, she said everything is fine, supplies are sufficient, can play mahjong, my father does not go out running, just run on the treadmill.
她很担心我。
She's worried about me.
我说，我一切都好，享受到了VIP待遇，连垃圾都有人帮忙倒。
I said, I am all right, enjoy the VIP treatment, even the garbage has been helped to pour.
“妈妈，你放心，我们在杭州很好。
"You may rest assured, mother, that we are very well in Hangzhou.
等这次过去，我们还会再回湖北，给您好好补一个年。
After this, we will go back to Hubei again, give you a good year.
”记录平凡而普通的人生你“在看”我吗？点一下让我知道。
Record Ordinary and Ordinary LifeAre you "looking at" me? Click to let me know.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一位被隔离者的自述：年三十从湖北“逃”回杭州，我流了无数次泪。
An isolated self-account: Thirty years from Hubei "escape" back to Hangzhou, I shed countless tears.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "世间有味";。
; Rickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一位被隔离者的自述：年三十从湖北“逃”回杭州，我流了无数次泪";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "社区、物业严阵以待，“隔离”生活让人感受温暖";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; life in isolation.
var title ="世间有味";。
; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by the world.
