口述实录 | 如果没有这场疫情，这一天是我穿上秀禾服结婚的日子。
Had it not been for the outbreak, this would have been my wedding day in fine clothes.
小梦。
Little dream.
世间有味                      。
There is flavor in the world.
世间有味。
There is flavor in the world.
岁月无情，人间有爱。
Time and tide wait for no man.
。
.
妈妈总说我出嫁了他们一生的任务才算完成口述/小梦（上海读研，定居上海）我老家在湖北一个小县城。
My mother always said that it was only when I married them for the rest of my life that I finished oral / dreaming.
9天前，亲友群里发来消息：武汉封城，小梦从上海回不来了，初六的婚不结了。
Nine days ago, the family and friends sent a message: Wuhan sealed, the dream from Shanghai can not go back, the sixth day of the marriage knot.
虽然年纪和小梦相差不大，但按辈分来说，她算是我的侄女。
Although the age and the little dream are not different, but by generation, she is my niece.
婚礼取消了，小梦人如今还在上海。
The wedding was called off and the dreamer is still in Shanghai.
我拨通了这位很多年没有见过面的侄女电话，小梦告诉我，决定取消婚礼的那天，她妈妈从来没有像现在这样难过。
I dialed the niece I hadn't seen for years and she told me her mother had never been so upset the day she decided to cancel the wedding.
01妈妈说我出嫁了这一生的任务才算完成如果没有这场疫情，我和我的那个他会在初六，在我的湖北老家举行婚礼。
01 My mother said that I married the mission of this life is complete if there is no epidemic, I and my that he will be in my home in Hubei Province on the sixth day of the wedding.
我和他已经谈了三年多，在上海也买房安了家。
He and I have been talking for more than three years, in Shanghai also bought a home.
去年我们领了证，婚礼想在我老家先办，然后再去他老家办。
We got the certificate last year, we want to do the wedding in my hometown, and then go to his hometown.
过年的时候结婚，多喜庆啊。
How festive it is to get married in the New Year.
我是家里的老二，姐姐早就结婚了，妈妈总说我出嫁了他们一生的任务才算完成。
I am the second in the family, my sister has long been married, my mother always said that I married them for a lifetime before the task is completed.
大家对这场婚礼都很期待。
Everybody's looking forward to this wedding.
我爸妈都在外地打工，爸爸在东莞，妈妈在武昌。
My parents work in the field, father in Dongguan, mother in Wuchang.
为了筹备婚礼，妈妈10月份就从武昌回老家了。
Mother went home from Wuchang in October to prepare for the wedding.
她早早就在县城订下了酒席，给我买了新衣柜、梳妆柜，虽然我已经不在家住好多年了。
She made an early reservation at the county seat and bought me a new wardrobe and dresser, though I had not lived at home for many years.
妈妈说，婚房简单布置下，装饰品等我们回家后自己再去挑。
Mom said, the wedding room simple arrangement, decorations when we go home to pick for ourselves.
妈妈也早早给亲戚们都捎去了消息：“初六小梦在XXX结婚，早点来吃酒哈。
Mother also early to relatives all sent the news: "Junior 6 dreams in XXX wedding, early to eat wine ha.
”我时不时打电话问她物资准备得怎么样。
From time to time I called and asked her how the supplies were getting ready.
妈妈说她准备了30个红包袋。
Mom said she had 30 red envelopes.
我说30个不够，亲戚朋友的小孩那么多，不够给。
I said 30 is not enough, relatives and friends have so many children, not enough.
她笑着说，那我明天再去买些。
she said with a smile. I'll buy some more tomorrow.
她还给我看了买的床上用品，我嫌颜色不好，她说明天再去买一床大红色的。
She showed me the bedding I had bought. I didn't like the color. She said she would buy a big red one tomorrow.
那段时间，全家都沉浸在准备婚礼的喜悦氛围中。
During that time, the whole family was in the happy mood of preparing for the wedding.
我穿上网上花四百多元买来的秀禾服，戴上头饰，拍照给他们看，姐姐帮我预约好了化妆师。
I put on the online more than 400 dollars to buy Xiuhe clothes, wearing headgear, take photos for them to see, my sister helped me make up a makeup artist.
我在家人群里把拍好的婚纱照发给大家看，大家挑了几张最好的，让我冲印好了带回安陆。
I took the wedding photos in the home crowd to everyone to see, we selected some of the best, let me develop a good back to Anlu.
我想取消婚礼，妈妈说你莫开玩笑，姐姐说你疯了吧家里爸妈早就准备好了一切，基本不用我们再操心什么，我俩的公司放假也晚，我们就提前订了腊月二十八（1月22日）晚上的火车票，卧铺从上海坐到汉口，再转车回老家。
I want to cancel the wedding, mother said you do not joke, sister said you crazy parents have prepared everything, basically no need for us to worry about anything, our company vacation late, we have advance booking on the evening of January 28 (January 22) train tickets, sleeper from Shanghai to Hankou, and then change back home.
回家吃年夜饭，给亲戚们拜几天年，我就要结婚啦。
I am going to get married when I go home to dinner and worship my relatives for a few days.
1月20日，钟南山院士说，冠状病毒会人传人，呼吁大家能不去武汉就不要去。
On January 20, academician Zhong Nan Shan said that the coronavirus will be passed from person to person and appealed to everyone not to go to Wuhan.
我们开始意识到问题的严重性。
We are beginning to realize the seriousness of the problem.
想到要在汉口转车，我开始在网上买口罩，医用外科口罩和N95口罩瞬间就没货了，只买到一些一次性的普通口罩。
Thinking of changing trains at Hankou, I started to buy masks online. Surgical masks and N95 masks went out of stock in an instant.
我给爸妈打电话，让他们在家千万注意，不要接触武汉回来的人。
I call my parents, let them pay attention at home, do not contact Wuhan people back.
我爸说好的好的，我妈笑着说没事，之前老早就在传这个事了，都是谣言，幼儿园好多小朋友就得了感冒，很快就都好了。
My father said all right, my mother laughed to say nothing, before long in the dissemination of this matter, are rumors, kindergarten a lot of children caught a cold, soon all right.
第二天到了公司，每个人都在谈论新型肺炎。
When we arrived at the company the next day, everyone was talking about the new pneumonia.
网上的一些消息让我了解到，武汉的情况可能比我们想象中还要糟糕，我忍不住又买了一些口罩。
Some of the news on the Internet has taught me that Wuhan may be worse than we thought, and I can't help but buy some more masks.
▲创意图那一天在公司，我心神不宁，开始犹豫。
Creative graphics that day in the company, I was uneasy, began to hesitate.
明天我就要坐上车回老家结婚了，可是，可是……晚上妈妈给我打电话，絮絮叨叨嘱咐我走之前一定把家里收拾好，记得断电断水断燃气。
I'm getting on the bus tomorrow and getting married, but... Mom gave me a phone call at night, rambling on, telling me to get my house in order before I left.
我等她都说完，慢吞吞说：“妈，我还在想，到底要不要回去。
As I waited for her to finish, I slowly said, Mom, I was wondering if I wanted to go back.
”电话那头妈妈的语气马上就变了，我都能想象出她的眉毛皱在一起懊恼的样子。
"The tone of the mother's voice immediately changed, and I could picture her eyebrows wrinkled together in annoyance.
“嗯？！”“你莫跟我开玩笑，都准备好了，你说不回来了？！”我说不出话了，心里很不是滋味。
"Hmm?!" "You don't joke with me, all ready, you said will not come back?!" I was speechless, very uncomfortable.
电话里，我听到我那可爱的小外甥在气鼓鼓地喊：“姨妈要是不回来，以后就都别回了！”小外甥很喜欢我，知道我很快要回家，就提前好几天住到我家里，盼着我回去。
On the phone, I heard my dear little nephew exclaiming angrily, If my aunt does not come back, she will not come back again.The little nephew liked me very much, and knew that I would be coming home soon, so he came to my house several days in advance, expecting me to return.
我妈语气稍微缓和了些，她开始劝我。
My mother's tone softened a little, and she began to talk to me.
她说，你怕武汉的病，那我们不从武汉转车不就没事了？你人是一定要回来的，婚礼是肯定不能取消的。
She said, you are afraid of Wuhan disease, then we do not change from Wuhan on the right? You must be back, the wedding is definitely not canceled.
我怎么解释疫情严重她都不听，坚持说办酒席是没有问题的。
She wouldn't listen to me explain the severity of the outbreak, insisting that there was no problem with the banquet.
我只好挂了电话，求助我姐，让她帮忙劝劝妈妈应该还有用。
I had to hang up and ask my sister for help in persuading my mother that there should be any use.
可是我刚告诉姐姐，想取消婚礼。
But I just told my sister I wanted to cancel the wedding.
姐姐就说：“你疯了吧！小题大做。
"My sister said," Are you crazy? Make a fuss.
我们可拉不下这个脸！”我成了孤岛。
We can't pull that face! "I became an island.
决定还是回家结婚，真得病了就认命没有一个人支持我。
I decided to go home and get married, and when I was really sick, I made up my mind nobody supported me.
早上醒来，我对老公说，还是回家吧，实在是不想让家里人失望。
In the morning, I said to my husband, or go home, really do not want to let the family down.
“要是真感染上，得病了，我们就认命。
"If it does infect us and we get sick, we'll give it up.
”他说好的。
'he said.
▲创意图我们把从汉口中转的车票改成从武昌中转，安慰自己，跟发生疫情的海鲜市场隔了一条江，情况应该会好点。
Creative graphics We changed the transfer from Hankou ticket to transit from Wuchang, comfort themselves, with the outbreak of seafood market separated by a river, it should be better.
妈妈的电话又来了：“你回不回？”“回吧，回的。
His mother called again and said, "Can't you go back?" "Go back, come back.
”嘴里这样说，我心里还是不愿意的。
"I don't want to," she said.
上海此时已经是人心惶惶了，这一整天都特别难熬。
Shanghai is now in a panic, this whole day has been particularly hard.
我想办法又辗转弄来了一些N95口罩，老公开始收拾行李。
I managed to get some N95 masks and my husband started packing.
好朋友的家也在湖北，她决定不回去了，我把家里钥匙拿给她，让她过年帮忙照顾下我们的猫。
My good friend's house is also in Hubei, she decided not to go back, I gave her home keys, let her take care of our cat.
我要回去结婚了。
I'm going back to get married.
02最后时刻我犹豫了，爸爸说不回来以后都别回了这漫长的一天还没有结束，我手里握着晚上九点的火车票，躺在床上，一动也不想动，老公还在收拾行李，虽然我知道他也不想回。
The long day was not over yet. I was holding my 9 p.m. train ticket in my hand and I didn't want to move. My husband was still packing, even though I knew he didn't want to go back.
我妈又发语音消息来了：“决定回了就莫犹豫，快点准备走！”我们又开始了新一轮的争吵。
My mother sent a voice message again: "If you decide to go back, don't hesitate. Get ready to go!" We started a new spat.
我说万一办个酒席把别人感染了，要被人骂一辈子的。
I said that if a banquet is held to infect others, they will be scolded for life.
我妈说，都是你说得吓人的，安全得很。
My mom said you were scary and safe.
我爸之前一言不发，这次也直接吼了起来：“不回来以后都别回了！”我妈说：“要是不回来，男方的婚礼我们也不参加了！”爸妈脾气一直很好，待我们两姐妹也一直很宽容体谅。
My father never said a word before, and this time he yelled directly: "Don't go back!" My mother said, "If you don't come back, we won't attend the man's wedding!" Mom and Dad have always been good-tempered and considerate to both of us.
这么多年来，我第一次见爸爸妈妈这么生气，他们期待了这么久，是我让他们失望了。
For the first time in years, I met my parents so angry that they had been waiting so long that I let them down.
我挂了电话，哇地哭了起来。
I hung up the phone and began to cry.
晚上妈问我上车没。
Mom asked me if I was in the car at night.
消息我看到了，我把手机扔到一边，再也不去回她。
I saw the news. I threw my cell phone aside and never went back to her.
她又去问我老公，听到已经退票的消息，妈妈说她从没有像现在这么难过。
She went to ask my husband, heard that the ticket has been returned, mother said she has never been so sad.
那套秀禾服，我一定会穿上的这一夜哪里能睡安稳。
That show of clothes, I will certainly put on this night where can sleep peacefully.
我哭哭醒醒，凌晨四点，我又一次醒来，这次再也睡不着了。
I woke up at four in the morning, and this time I could not sleep.
我终于把手机又打开，看到妈妈夜里十二点半在亲戚群里发消息告知大家婚礼取消。
I finally turned the phone on again and saw my mother at 12: 30 in the evening to send a message to relatives that the wedding was canceled.
我妈不好意思说是我不愿意回，就跟大家说，是我单位领导硬逼着退票，实在是回不了了，对不住大家。
My mother is ashamed to say that I do not want to go back, just to say, is my unit leadership forced refund, is really unable to go back, right everyone.
这时候武汉封城的消息也传来了。
At this time, the news of Wuhan city also came.
群里，亲戚们没有说什么，大家都应该知道事态的严重性了。
In the group, relatives said nothing, everyone should know the seriousness of the situation.
我想了很久，早上七点多的时候也终于忍不住在亲戚群里开始回应大家。
I thought for a long time, 7: 00 in the morning when I finally could not help but in the relatives began to respond to everyone.
我说，真的非常抱歉，只是非常时期，为了大家的健康考虑还是要取消，也希望大家少走动，戴口罩，勤洗手。
I said, really very sorry, just very unusual time, for everybody's health consideration still must cancel, also hoped everybody walks less, wears mask, frequently hand-washes.
我再给妈妈打电话，明显听得出，她的气已经消了大半，这次真的开始理解了。
I called my mother again, apparently hearing that her anger had mostly died out, and this time she was beginning to understand.
她让我们在上海照顾好自己，她已经把酒席都退了。
She told us to take good care of ourselves in Shanghai. She had already turned down the banquet.
没过几天，湖北多个县市都封了，我老家也封了。
A few days later, many counties and cities in Hubei were sealed, so was my hometown.
爸妈完全谅解了我们，还安慰我们说托了婚礼的福，家里囤了一大堆的菜，不怕没粮食了。
Mom and Dad fully understand us, but also comforted us that the wedding entrusted the blessing, the family hoard a lot of dishes, not afraid of no food.
我看到，前几天妈妈在网上发了我们的婚纱照视频，她说，她的小棉袄要出嫁了。
I saw that the other day my mother distributed a video of our wedding photo online. She said that her padded jacket was getting married.
老家还办婚礼吗？我不知道，姐姐说要么就不办了吧。
Is there a wedding in my hometown? I don't know. My sister said it would be better.
但是我知道，那套秀禾服我一定会穿上的。
But I know I'll put on that show shirt.
记录平凡而普通的人生你“在看”我吗？点一下让我知道。
Record ordinary and ordinary life you "see" me? Click to let me know.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口述实录 | 如果没有这场疫情，这一天是我穿上秀禾服结婚的日子。
Had it not been for the outbreak, this would have been my wedding day in fine clothes.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "世间有味";。
; Rickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口述实录 | 如果没有这场疫情，这一天是我穿上秀禾服结婚的日子";。
var msg _ title = & quot; oral record & # 124; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "但是我知道，那套秀禾服我一定会穿上的。
var msg _ desc = & quot; but I knew I would have worn that fine dress.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="世间有味";。
; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by the world.
