2月8号进度。
Progress on February 8th.
脾气暴躁王富贵。
A grumpy king is rich and wealthy.
塑料飞艇                      。
Plastic airship.
塑料飞艇。
Plastic airship.
仅作记录和参考，不具有普适性的个人记录。
For record and reference only, there is no general personal record.
。
.
我先放一段音频，这是刚才四点多我找到隔离点负责人的联系方式，打电话问出了隔离点的真实情况，仅作为硚口区隔离点的实际案例，其他地区情况可能有所不同。
Let me first play an audio frequency. This is just over four o'clock I found the contact information of the person in charge of the isolation point, called the real situation of the isolation point, only as a real case of the isolation point of the port area, the situation may be different in other areas.
外公外婆在2月5号做完核酸检测后就被社区强制带到隔离点关起来，后续的上报和入院社区没有给任何说法，并拒绝上报，昨天实在没什么办法发了一条求助信息，以下是昨天下午一直到目前的进度。
Grandmother-in-law was forcibly taken to the quarantine site by the community on February 5 after completing a nucleic acid test. Subsequent reporting and hospitalization communities gave no indication and refused to report it.
首先是昨天，为什么要发求助帖？7号早上外婆在隔离点房间晕倒，我们非常着急地在等5号做的核酸检测结果，中午家人接到武汉疾控中心电话通知两位老人检测结果为阳性，按照目前官方发出的信息，此时应该交由社区上报，但社区负责人拒绝，说要资料，要书面性的确诊证明，但是中心医院现在不能开纸质单，短信通知也不能，全由疾控中心电话通知（这两天在中心医院检测的患者遇到了同样的情况，为了避免泄露他人信息，我就不发了，你可以选择不相信）。
At noon the family received a call from Wuhan CDC informing them that the test result was positive. According to the current official information, they should be reported to the community. However, the head of the community refused to provide the information.
医院也很无奈，只能想办法说再打一次电话，让我的家人保留录音，看能不能作为社区要的“确诊证明”。
The hospital is also very helpless, can only think of a way to call again, let my family to keep the recording, see if it can be the community's "diagnosis certificate."
社区表示不认录音。
The community denied the recording.
昨天从下午到晚上我收到了很多朋友的帮助消息，感谢热心的朋友们，晚上不知道是哪条线搭上了，社区突然表示可以上报。
Yesterday from the afternoon to the evening I received a lot of help from friends, thank you for the warm-hearted friends, do not know which line at night, the community suddenly said can report.
在此再次感谢大家。
Thank you again.
今天早上再次打电话确认，社区说昨天没来得及，今天早上已上报，这次确认是已经上报。
Call again this morning to confirm that the community said yesterday did not have time, reported this morning, this confirmation has been reported.
也是在今天早上，外婆是连续第二次出现腹泻，身体状况更差了，已经出现明显的重症症状。
Also this morning, Grandma was suffering from diarrhea for the second time in a row. She was in worse health and had already developed severe symptoms.
我买到了之前医院开的口服药和制氧机送到隔离点，送东西的朋友表示隔离点环境很差，老人被关在小房间里，非常虚弱，看着实在不忍心。
I bought oral medicine and oxygen machines from the previous hospital and sent them to the quarantine point, where friends said the isolation was bad. The old man was confined to a small room, very weak, and looked unbearably weak.
我昨天填了所有可以填写的帮助入院渠道的表格，今天有反馈说某家医院空出床位可以接收病人，此时我们已经发现外婆出现重症症状，很希望能快点入院，但是医院接收病人必须社区配合给到转诊单，社区表示给不了，说要么找上级街道，病人入院是卫健委负责。
I filled out all the forms I could fill out yesterday, and today there was feedback that a hospital was free to receive patients. We found out that Grandma had severe symptoms and wanted to be admitted quickly, but we had to get a referral form from the community.
网上给的很多24小时求助电话里硚口区的打不通，长丰街道的电话打不通，我再次问社区，是否能讲明整个入院流程，是否需要我们带病人再去医院做一个重症确诊的证明，社区回答，我们不知道，反正我们没有权限。
I asked the community again if I could explain the whole process of admission, whether we need to take the patient to the hospital for a certificate of severe diagnosis, the community replied, we don't know, we have no competence anyway.
我问社区负责人，请问你们办过社区患者的入院手续吗？负责人回答没办过。
I asked the community leaders, have you run the admission procedures for community patients? The person in charge of the answer did not do.
上报确诊信息有什么作用，是申请排队等入院吗？回答，不知道。
What effect does reporting confirmed information have, be apply queuing wait to go to hospital? Answer, do not know.
隔离点每天只发放三餐和中药。
Only three meals and Chinese medicine are distributed daily at the quarantine site.
人是社区带到隔离点的，但隔离点并不由社区管理，隔离点里的患者如果出现紧急情况，在隔离点处也无法就医，如果接送患者的家属也被社区隔离，那么患者在里面只有等病症发展，输液、进一步诊断和治疗是不可能的，想去医院也是不太可能的。
People are brought to the isolation point by the community, but the isolation point is not managed by the community, the patient in the isolation point cannot be treated at the isolation point in the event of an emergency, and if the family member of the patient is isolated from the community, the patient is confined to waiting for the disease to develop, infusion, further diagnosis and treatment are not possible and it is unlikely that the patient will go to the hospital.
我这里搜到了很多官微等渠道的就诊指引信息，所有的流程都指向社区，医院也是无能为力，表示他们的规定也是和社区对接。
I found a lot of official and micro-channels here guidance information, all the process points to the community, the hospital is powerless, said their rules and community docking.
如大家所见，现在到了快六点，我还是卡在社区这一关，下午有媒体同行和志愿者也得知我们的困境，打电话到我们所在的长丰街正康花园社区询问情况，社区负责人一听是媒体，马上说请你找上一级，然后挂掉电话。
As you can see, now that it is almost six o'clock, I am stuck in the community. In the afternoon, some of my media colleagues and volunteers were also informed of our plight and called our Changfeng Street Zhengkang Garden community.
隔离点负责人的电话是我家人给各处打电话询问才获得的。
The person in charge of the isolation point got the call from my family by calling everywhere.
隔离点既不由卫健委管，也不由社区管，里面的情况如录音所示。
The isolation point is neither under the health care committee nor the community management, the situation inside as shown in the audio recording.
编辑掉了一点关于地址和负责人姓名的相关信息，请理解。
Please understand that the editor has dropped some information about the address and the name of the person in charge.
以上是我今天帮外公外婆争取治疗的进度。
That's the progress I'm making today trying to help Grandma and Grandpa get treatment.
很多求助渠道的志愿者都在为武汉的患者从早忙到晚，但是今天我才大概捋清楚，医院床位是很紧张，但是每天都有几家医院的床位空出来，有人可以被收治，而更多的人可能是卡在了社区这关，一天一天拖下去。
Many of the volunteers for help were busy working from dawn to dusk for Wuhan patients, but today I've probably sorted out that hospital beds are tight, but every day several hospital beds are available and people can be treated, while many more may be stuck in the community, dragging away day by day.
非常无奈，今天还得知一个好朋友的家人感染，正在等核酸检测，和朋友通了电话，把我这边的经历告诉他，希望能够避免相同困境，也希望他们所在的社区和我们社区的办事风格不一样。
Very helpless, today also learned that a good friend's family is infected, is waiting for nucleic acid testing, and a telephone conversation with friends, tell him my side of the story, hope to avoid the same predicament, and hope that their communities and our communities do not work in the same way.
我很好奇，长丰街的社区负责人大姐，听到社区居民的家人说，人快不行了，还是很平静，非常平静，如果追问就会得到她非常不耐烦的回应，她是不是觉得社区里这些病重的老人是她的大麻烦？怕不怕把人拖到死，这些人半夜在她家窗口看着她？。
I am very curious, Changfeng Street community leaders, heard the community residents of the family said that the people soon dead, or very calm, very quiet, if asked will get a very impatient response, she felt that these seriously ill old people in the community is her big trouble, afraid to drag people to death, these people in her home window at midnight?
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
2月8号进度。
Progress on February 8th.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "塑料飞艇";。
Var nickname = & quot; plastics & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "2月8号进度";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; on February 8;
var msg_desc = "情况不太好，情况不好的人可能有很多。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Not so good. There may be a lot of bad people.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="塑料飞艇";。
var title = & quot; plastics & quot; & quot;
