要到什么时候，才能开工大吉丨人间。
When is the time to start the business?
林远。
Lin Yuan.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
在招聘启事“工资”这一栏里，谢志强有点发愁。
In the "salary" column of the job advertisement, Xie Zhiqiang was a little worried.
想来想去，先写了“月薪2500，不包食宿”，之后觉得不妥，又改成“月薪1800，包食宿”，还是觉得不妥，最后狠了狠心，改成“月薪2000，年龄不限，包住宿两餐”。
The salary of each month is 2500 yuan, including room and board, but the salary is 1800 yuan per month, including room and board.
配图 | Sipa图片社前  言__这是一场战争，在新年的伊始，爆发在每一个普通的、平凡的中国人身边。
At the beginning of the new year, it broke out around every ordinary, ordinary Chinese.
这是我们的战争，我们热切地讨论、谨慎地分析，为灾难中陨落的生命而痛惜，为医者大无畏的精神所感动，为我们能为之所做的点滴小事而不懈努力。
This is our war, and we enthusiastically discussed, carefully analyzed, lamented the loss of life in the disaster, moved by the fearless spirit of the healer, and worked tirelessly for the little things we could do for it.
人生海海，我们且行且惜。
Life is a sea, and we cherish it.
网易人间「我们的战争」特辑，讲述每一天，我们与疫情赤膊相见。
The Netease World "Our War" feature tells us about each day and we are not exposed to the epidemic.
我们的战争丨连载082020年1月30日晚上10点，妻子刘云给谢志强转发了一条新闻。
Our War into the Jungle 08: 00 pm on January 30, wife Liu Yun relays a news story to Xie Zhiqiang.
光看标题，谢志强心里就忍不住激动——那是一条有关“中小企业疫情期间停工时减免房租”的消息，也是时下谢志强最关心的事情。
Looking at the headlines, Xie Zhiqiang couldn't help but get excited about the news about "rent relief for small and medium-sized enterprises during an epidemic" and Xie Zhiqiang's biggest concern.
抱着手机，谢志强一字一句读完，却泄了气。
Holding the mobile phone, Xie Zhiqiang read every word, but let out the gas.
因为按照新闻里说的，能够减免租金的大多是“公家单位名下的房产”，除此以外，新闻中也明确指出，“政府理论上无权强制私人房东减免租户租金”。
"The government does not have the power in theory to force private landlords to reduce or waive rents," the newspaper said, adding that "the government does not have the power to impose rent relief on private landlords."
而他所租用的门面房正属于后者。
The facade he had hired belonged to the latter.
“白搭，这个和我的情况不一样”。
In vain, it is not the same as in my case.
2年前，34岁的谢志强在省城东边斥资60多万，开了一家营业面积200平米的火锅店。
Two years ago, 34-year-old Xie Zhiqiang spent more than 600,000 yuan east of the provincial capital opening a 200-square-metre hotpot shop.
火锅店临街，月租金2.2万，除了他和妻子刘云外，还另外雇了14名员工，8男6女，其中10人来自外地。
Hotpot shops rent 22,000 a month, in addition to his wife Liu Yun, but also employed 14 other employees, eight men and six women, 10 of whom are from the outside world.
谢志强在火锅店附近的居民区内租了2套60平米的商品房作为外地员工宿舍，每月租金1800元。
Mr. Xie rented two 60-square-metre commercial apartments in a residential area near the hotpot store for non-resident workers at a monthly rent of 1,800 yuan.
春节前，按照合同约定，谢志强先缴了第一季度的商铺租金和员工宿舍租金8万余元，又花了4万多购进了一大批春节期间需要的食材、原料和餐饮设备。
Before the Spring Festival, according to the contract, Xie Zhiqiang paid the rent of shops and staff quarters over 80,000 yuan in the first quarter, and spent more than 40,000 yuan to purchase a large number of materials, materials and catering equipment needed during the Spring Festival.
本打算与往年一样，在正月初三开始营业，可先是接到街道上延后开业的通知，又有好几位外地员工打电话找他请假，说各地都在“封路”和“限行”，自己恐怕近期都无法返回，希望老板理解。
The plan was to open on the third day of the first month, as in previous years, only to be notified of delays in the opening of the streets, and several non-resident workers called to ask for leave of absence, saying that they feared they would not be able to return in the near future.
谢志强不知道该怎么办了。
Xie Zhiqiang doesn't know what to do.
火锅店不能开业，但水电费还要继续缴，因为节前屯下的一些冻品还在后厨放着。
The hotpot is not open, but utility bills continue to be paid, as some of the frozen goods stored in the storage area are kept in the back kitchen.
从除夕到正月初七，他每天下午都要和妻子戴上口罩到店里看看。
From New Year's Eve to the seventh day of the first month, he and his wife wear masks every afternoon to look at the store.
一来出门散心，二来也不放心店里的电气安全，三来得天天盯着点周边其他店铺有没有开业的迹象——可惜接连好几天，整个街道上只有一家药店开门营业。
On the one hand, I went out to relax, and on the other hand, I didn't feel comfortable about the safety of the store.
这在往年是根本不会发生的事。
This did not happen at all in previous years.
按照风俗，本地正月初三之后，各种聚会都会开始集中出现，除了传统的同学聚会、战友聚会、朋友叙旧外，附近餐饮场所还因靠近省城著名的“相亲角”，总会吸引很多前来相亲的男女用餐。
According to custom, after the third day of the first month of the year, parties of various kinds will begin to appear together. In addition to traditional classmates' parties, comrades' parties and friends' reminiscences, nearby dining venues will always attract many blind dates because of their proximity to provincial capitals.
但如今，整个街区都关了，进出道口需要登记，“相亲角”则成了居民的停车场。
But now the whole block is closed, access to the crossings needs to be registered, and the "blind date corner" has become a parking lot for residents.
前一天下午，谢志强夫妇遇上同在一条街开川菜馆的徐正道，聊起开业的事情，徐正道也是一脸愁容，说自己店里的主厨腊月二十九返乡时坐了一辆载有确诊新冠肺炎病人的列车，目前尚处于居家隔离状态，何时能开业还不好说。
The previous afternoon, Xie Zhiqiang and his wife met Xu Zhengdao, who was opening a Sichuan Restaurant on the same street. Xu Zhengdao also had a sad face. He said that his chef had returned home on a train carrying a confirmed SARS patient.
谢志强觉得，自己比徐正道幸运多了，毕竟店里的员工还没有谁与这肺炎“有关系”，只要疫情状况稍好，火锅店随时可以开张大吉。
Xie Zhiqiang thinks, oneself is more lucky than Xu Zheng Road, after all, the store's staff has not been "connected" with this pneumonia, as long as the outbreak of a slightly better situation, the hotpot shop can be opened at any time.
但等晚上看到手机里的新闻后，谢志强一下感觉，还是徐正道的运气好——徐正道租的临街房产权归属于区物资局，按照新闻上的说法，区物资局作为公家单位很有可能减免徐正道的房租，那将是一笔不小的数字；而自己当初却嫌弃物资局名下临街房面积和位置都不太好，承租的是隔壁私人房东的门面房。
But after seeing the news on his mobile phone at night, Xie Zhiqiang felt lucky that Xu Zhengdao had good luck - Xu Zhengdao's renting of a house in a neighborhood owned by the District Property Agency, which, according to the news, would have reduced Xu Zhengdao's rent.
谢志强很想给房东打电话问，但又很犹豫。
Xie Zhiqiang would like to call the landlord to ask, but is very hesitant.
一来不好开口，二来觉得房东肯定不会跟自己谈这个事，但妻子却一直在旁边催个不停。
On the one hand, it is difficult to speak, on the other hand, the landlord will certainly not talk to themselves about this matter, but his wife has been constantly urging.
谢志强很是头疼，说钱都已经交了，现在打电话能有什么用？难道房东会把之前交的房租送回来吗？刘云就劝丈夫往以后想一想，打电话的目的不是“把房租要回来”，而是提前跟房东讲一下自己的困难，看下个季度的房租能否宽限一些时日。
Xie Zhiqiang is very headache, said that the money has been paid, now what use can the phone call? Will the landlord return the rent paid before? Liu Yun advised her husband to think in the future, the purpose of the call is not to "get back rent," but to tell the landlord about their difficulties in advance to see if the rent can be extended for some time.
这两年，谢志强的生意一直做得还算顺利，去掉各种成本，每月也能盈利万把块钱。
Over the past two years, Xie Zhiqiang's business has been doing fairly well, removing all sorts of costs and earning millions of dollars a month.
行业里有个说法，餐饮业新开店前两年能做到收支平衡，便是成功了。
There is a saying in the industry that the catering industry is successful when it makes both ends meet in the first two years.
谢志强之前也没打算一上来就赚钱，只要不亏就行。
Xie Zhiqiang also did not intend to start to make money, as long as there is no loss.
开店之初投入的60多万成本大部分都是夫妻俩借来的，其中既有亲戚朋友的钱，也有一些利息颇高的民间贷款。
The majority of the more than 600,000 dollars invested in opening a store was borrowed by couples, including money from relatives and friends as well as private loans with high interest rates.
如今，陆陆续续还了5分之2——每月赚的钱除维持基本经营和一家三口的生活外，大部分都用来还钱了。
Now, two fifths of the money is still being paid back - most of the monthly income is being used to pay off the money, in addition to maintaining the basic business and the livelihood of a family of three.
妻子提醒谢志强，店里的流动资金已经不多了，其中还包括员工待发的工资，如果火锅店短时间内不能开业，下个季度房租肯定交不上，“与其到时与房东争执，不如提前将情况告诉他，即便不能减免房租，也让彼此各自心里有数，以免到时突然提出搞得双方都不愉快”。
"Instead of arguing with the landlord, let him know ahead of time and let each other know, even if the rent is not reduced, in case it suddenly turns out to be unpleasant for both of us."
谢志强沉默一会儿，问妻子家里还有多少钱，妻子说现在卡里的钱也不过5万多块，其中一部分要用于偿还2月的民间借款，手头剩下能用的不过两三万。
Xie Zhiqiang was silent for a moment and asked his wife how much money there was in the house. His wife said that she now had just over 50,000 yuan, part of which would be used to repay the February folk loans.
“你得想啊，年前咱进的那些食材放到年后开业还有多少能用？这情景年后各种商品肯定要涨价，再进新的食材要花更多的钱。
"You have to think how much of the ingredients we got in a year ago will still be available when we open it," he said.After this scenario, all kinds of goods are sure to go up in price, and it takes more money to get new ingredients.
另外，年关这一闹，年后即便开始营业，会有多少客人来吃饭？”听到这里，谢志强的头更疼了。
In addition, how many guests will come to eat after the New Year's Eve, even if the business begins? "Xie Zhiqiang's head hurts even more when he hears this.
自己原本打算撑过刚开店的两年，等欠款还完了，客户稳定了，一切就好了。
I had intended to last two years just opened a store, such as the payment of arrears, customer stability, everything is well.
疫情刚刚发生时，他还在微信群里跟朋友打趣说，“在武汉开店的人可倒了霉了”，没想到仅仅几天工夫，就落到了自己头上。
When the outbreak occurred, he was still in the micro-letter group tease friends, "Wuhan shop owners can be moldy," did not expect only a few days, fell on his own head.
谢志强翻出房东的手机号码，眼睛盯着，脑袋里全是怎么和房东开口。
Xie Zhiqiang pulls out the landlord's cell phone number, staring at him, his head full of how to talk to the landlord.
想了半天，又重新把手机塞进口袋里，对妻子说，既然是求人帮忙，与其在电话里讲，不如把家里年前准备送礼的酒拿上两瓶，直接去房东家吧，登门拜访也显得自己更真诚一些。
After thinking about it for a long time, he slipped the phone back into his pocket and told her that since it was asking for help, instead of talking on the phone, it would be better to take two bottles of the family gift-giving wine and go straight to the landlord's house.
但妻子立刻否决了他的建议，“你还是打电话说吧，现在小区外面贴的全是‘不拜年、不走亲、不访友’的大红条幅，这关口你去人家里，人家不把你打出来才怪……”和谢志强同样不安的，还有在火锅店以北半公里左右的高架桥下等活的短工陈德河。
But his wife immediately vetoed his proposal. "You'd better call and say that the red banners posted outside the area are full of 'no New Year visits, no relatives, no friends'..." Like Xie Zhiqiang, Xie Zhiqiang, and the short-lived Chen Dehe under the viaduct about half a kilometre north of the hotpot shop.
56岁的陈德河家住在省城远郊，10年前便开始在高架桥下自发形成的“劳务市场”打短工，最初干装修，接一些周边农村自建房的抹灰、粉刷之类的活计，自带工具每天100元。
The 56-year-old Chen Tak-he family lives in the outskirts of the provincial capital and began a spontaneous "labor market" under the viaduct 10 years ago.
后来越干越杂，铺地板、仓库搬运、栏杆喷漆、疏通下水道，甚至连建筑工地挖坑搬砖的活也会接。
Later, it got drier and drier, laying floors, moving warehouses, painting railings, cleaning sewers and even picking up bricks from construction sites.
有时遇到合适的，也会把妻子喊来，在家也是闲着，出工1天两个人加起来能有一百七八的收入，近两年工价涨了，有时一天可以赚两三百。
At home, two people can earn a hundred and seventy-eight dollars a day. In the past two years, wages have risen, and sometimes two or three hundred a day.
陈德河的大儿子在省城打工，小儿子还在读大学，女儿嫁去苏州，今年也没有回家过年。
Chen Dehe's eldest son works in the provincial capital, his youngest son is still in college, his daughter married to Suzhou, this year did not go home.
家里的收入来源只有两处，一是老家有7亩农田包给了省城一家绿化公司，每年有1万多块钱的租金，全部交给小儿子当作学费和生活开支；二是他和妻子在外打短工的收入，一年大概三四万，用作一家人的日常花销。
The family had only two sources of income. One was a seven-acre farm in his hometown, which was contracted out to a greening company in the provincial capital. Each year, more than 10,000 yuan was rented to the youngest son as tuition and living expenses.
大儿子参加工作后“自给自足”，不跟家里要钱但也不给家里贴补，女儿结婚后每月给家里转2000块，怀孕之后陈德河夫妇便不再要女儿的钱了。
The eldest son became self-sufficient in work, did not ask for money from his family but did not subsidize his family. When his daughter got married, he and his wife transferred 2,000 yuan to their home each month.
一年5万在陈德河看来“还算凑合”，只是令他有些着急的是，大儿子已年近30了，有一个谈了3年的女朋友，也是外地人。
To his great dismay, the eldest son is nearly 30 years old. He has a girlfriend who has been talking for 3 years and is a stranger here.
两人已经相互见过家长，女方家里要求陈德河大儿子在省城买套房子，陈德河算了一下，哪怕付首付，自己也要拿出至少40万来，不出意外的话，这笔钱中的绝大部分需要陈德河来掏。
The two have met each other's parents, the wife's family asked Chen Dehe's eldest son to buy a house in the provincial capital, Chen De River calculated, even pay the down payment, their own at least 400,000, if not unexpected, the vast majority of this money to Chen Dehe to pay.
往年，每到年初六，陈德河便会等在高架桥下。
In previous years, every year on the sixth day of the year, Chen Dehe will wait under the viaduct.
老家有个说法，叫“三、六、九，往外走”，初三亲戚还没走完，初九又稍显迟了，陈德河喜欢初六出门。
There is a saying that home, called "three, six, nine, go out", the third relatives have not gone, the ninth day and a little late, Chen Dehe likes to go out on the sixth day.
和周边其他村镇前来等活的人一起聚在高架桥下，相熟的人先是拜个年，打支烟聊一下过年见闻，再一同等待雇主。
With the surrounding villages and towns to wait for the people gathered under the viaduct, the people familiar with each other first a year, a cigarette chat over the New Year, and then together wait for the employers.
过年期间的工价相对高一点，毕竟还没出正月，短工们有理由向雇主讨个“彩头”。
During the New Year's wages are relatively high, after all, before the first month, casual workers have reason to ask employers for a "head start."
陈德河一直念念不忘3年前，大年初五被一栋别墅业主拉去给院子铺了花砖，夫妻俩忙活了一整天，在原本商定的300元工价基础上，临走时雇主又塞给他200块钱，说是“路费”，着实让夫妻俩高兴了一番。
Three years ago, Chen Dehe was pulled by a villa owner to lay bricks for the yard. The couple worked hard all day, and when they left, the employer added 200 yuan, saying it was "road fare," to the couple's delight.
今年初六，陈德河被家里的事情耽搁了，等不到初九的“彩头”，他决定初七一早就背上军绿色的工具包出门。
On the sixth day of this year, Chen Dehe was delayed by events at home. He decided to go out on the morning of July 7 with a green army kit.
走到村口，陈德河在“劝返点”遇到正在值班的同村村民李贵义，李贵义黑色羽绒服外面套了一件写有“社区检查”字样的红马甲，问陈德河“干啥去”。
At the beginning of the village, Chen Dehe met Li Guiyi, a fellow villager on duty at the "persuasion point." He wore a red vest with the words "community check" on the outside and asked Chen Dehe what to do.
陈德河拍了拍工具包，说“上工去”，李贵义劝他别去了，这关口哪有人肯雇工干活？况且村委会下了通知，疫情期间本村村民没有特殊事情禁止出村。
Chen Dehe patted the toolkit, said "go to work," Li Guiyi advised him not to go, this pass who would work as a hired hand? Moreover, the village committee informed that during the epidemic period, the villagers did not have any special things prohibited from leaving the village.
陈德河前两天也在村里的喇叭上听了，可还是从兜里掏出一包玉溪（烟）递给李贵义，让他“通融一下”。
Chen Dehe two days ago in the village also heard on the trumpet, or from his pocket took out a package of Yuxi (tobacco) to Li Guiyi, let him "accommodation.
李贵义指了指村口电杆上的监控，说村委会干部在里面“看着呢”，通融不得。
Li Guiyi pointed to the village head pole monitoring, said the village committee cadres in the "look at it", accommodation is not allowed.
陈德河跟他讲了半天都说不通，索性要回了玉溪，气呼呼地转身往回走。
Chen Dehe told him for a long time did not make sense, simply want to go back to Yuxi, angrily turned back.
走出好远，还听着李贵义在后面冲他喊，“别偷跑出去，村干部会去家里检查……”陈德河没回家，绕小路出了村，一边走还一边埋怨李贵义“死脑筋”。
After listening to Li Guiyi yell at him in the back, "Don't sneak out, village cadres will go home to check..." Chen Dehe did not go home, around the village, while complaining about Lee Guiyi "dead brain."
李贵义和陈德河一起长大，半辈子都待在村里，和老婆在村口省道边开了一家小超市，这个年过得也不消停。
Li Guiyi grew up with Chen Dehe and spent the rest of his life in the village. He and his wife opened a small supermarket on the edge of the village road.
村里人都知道，他节前备了6万多块钱的货，准备过年卖给村子里走亲戚的，没想到疫情突然袭来，村委会把“禁止走亲访友”的条幅挂得满街都是，只要有人进出便如临大敌，别说走亲戚了，一些开外地牌照车辆回家的本村人，都被“劝返点”劝回了。
As everyone in the village knows, he had more than 60,000 yuan in stock for sale to his relatives in the village during the Spring Festival. However, the village committee hung banners with "No Family Visits" all over the street.
人不进出，货自然卖不出去，李贵义眼睁睁地看着自家的货在后院堆积如山，酒水饮料还好，保质期长，要命的是那批水果和土鸡蛋。
People do not go in and out, goods can not be sold, Li Guiyi watched his goods pile up in the backyard, drink good, long shelf life, the batches of fruit and eggs.
两口子只好一天吃一个西瓜，愁得整晚睡不着。
The couple had to eat a watermelon a day and were too worried to sleep all night.
村里照顾李贵义，让他来“劝返点”当志愿者，每天给他200块，如果晚上也愿来的话，给300。
The village took care of Li Guiyi and asked him to volunteer at the "persuasion point," giving him 200 yuan a day and 300 if he wanted to come at night.
还另外从他店里买了些矿泉水、桶装面跟火腿肠，一方面供给“劝返点”，另一方面也算是帮他缓解一部分压力。
In addition to buying from his shop some mineral water, bucket noodles and sausage, on the one hand to provide "advice point," on the other hand, to help him relieve some of the pressure.
走到公交站，陈德河搭上一班进城公交，车上只有他一个。
Arrived at the bus stop, Chen Dehe took a bus to the city, he alone.
陈德河平时不上网，手机也是实体按键的“老人机”，对于此次疫情信息了解并不多，只知道“发生在武汉，挺严重的，现在全国都在防”。
Chen Dehe usually does not surf the Internet, mobile phone is the "old man machine" of the physical key, for this epidemic information is not much, only know "happened in Wuhan, quite serious, now the whole country is on guard."
他也听说了，本省发现的感染案例并不多，本市也只有区区一两例，临走时妻子给了他两个口罩，他就一直放在兜里，还是上车后司机提醒他戴上，才又从兜里翻了出来。
He also heard that there were not many cases of infection in the province and only one or two cases in the city. His wife gave him two masks when he left.
上午9点，陈德河来到高架桥下，吃惊地发现，原本能够容纳近千人的“劳务市场”里，一个人都没有。
At 9 a.m., Chen Dehe came under the viaduct and was surprised to find that there was no one in the "labor market," which could accommodate nearly a thousand people.
不但没有人，闪着警灯的警车和贴有“城管执法”标志的车子还不时经过，不远处站着两个穿红马甲、戴口罩的工作人员，看到陈德河走近，立刻向他走了过来。
Not only was there no one, but police cars with flashing lights and cars bearing the sign "Citadel Enforcement" passed by from time to time, and not far from them stood two men wearing red vest and masks who saw Chen Dehe approaching and approached him immediately.
陈德河一下想起李贵义身上穿的红马甲，自觉情形不妙，担心自己被“抓”回村，赶紧转身离开，一边走一边不时回头看，发现“红马甲”并没有跟上来，他才放下心来。
Chen Dehe thought of the red waistcoat Li Guiyi wears, conscious of the situation is not good, worried about being "caught" back to the village, quickly turned away, while walking back and forth, found that the "red vest" did not follow up, he was relieved.
沿着高架桥引桥走了很远，陈德河很是懊悔，早知道“劳务市场”不开了，自己就不费劲过来。
Walking along the viaduct leading bridge, Chen Dehe is very regretful, already knew that the "labor market" is not open, he did not bother to come.
眼下来都来了，再坐车回去，平白损失了往返车费。
Now that we're here, we're going back by bus, and we're losing our round trip fare.
他想起之前打短工认识的一个朋友刘阔，那家伙老婆有病需要钱，以前天天出来找活干。
He remembered Liu Kuo, a friend whom he had known as a casual laborer, whose wife needed money because she was ill and used to come out every day looking for work.
在陈德河看来，刘阔这个人“年轻、脑子灵、路子也多”，也许他有办法。
In Chen Dehe's view, Liu Kuo this person "is young, the brain spirit, the way also many", perhaps he has the method.
打电话过去，刘阔果然也出来了，不过不在“劳务市场”，而在距离劳务市场1公里远的一处商场门前。
In the past, Liu Kuo really did come out, but not in the "labor market," but one kilometer away from the labor market in front of a mall.
见到刘阔时，他正与一个同样打扮的工友坐在商场门前的台阶上，面前立着一块写着“刷墙、瓦工、刮腻子”的纸牌。
When he saw Liu Kuo, he was sitting on the front steps of the mall with a fellow worker in the same outfit. In front of him stood a card with the words "Wipe the wall, the bricklayer, the shave."
刘阔说自己年初五就出来了，一直也没找到活干。
Liu Kuo said he came out on Friday of the year and never found work.
“有个人要刷房子，年前就联系了，说好初七上工，结果昨天打电话说不做了，等以后再说……”“城北那个工地的老张也给我打电话了，说工人都没回来，工地也暂时不开了，不用我了，让我在家‘歇两天’……”“昨天有个叫‘疏通下水道’的，都谈好了价钱，结果走到小区门口被门卫拦了下来，说是外人禁止入内，业主为这个差点跟门卫打起来，但最后还是没能进去，买卖也就黄了……”三人你一句我一句地抱怨着，但谁也想不出哪里还能找到活干。
A man wanted to paint the house, he contacted me years ago and said that he would go to work on the seventh day of the school year, so he called me yesterday and said he would not do it until later.
刘阔说他本以为今年开年之后外地务工人员进城受阻，市面上的短工少，自己可以适当提高一下工价，没想到现在务工的人少，招工的更少，自己等了3天，一个活都没有接到。
Mr Lau said he had expected that migrant workers would be prevented from entering the city after the start of this year. There were fewer casual laborers in the market and they could raise their wages properly.
“老陈你是不急，你赚的是零花钱，有没有都无所谓，可我是等着钱给老婆看病，再这样下去，我又得去借钱……”2020年2月1日，正月初八，谢志强这一天也算喜忧参半——喜的是员工宿舍的房东接到电话后，给他免去了一个月的房租，另外还同意把他第二季度的剩余房租合并到第三季度一起交；忧的是门面房的房东婉拒了他的请求，无论减免还是延期，房东一概不同意。
"Old Chen you are not anxious, you earn pocket money, whether it is all right, but I am waiting for money to see his wife, and so on, I have to go to the first month of February 20, 2020, the owner of the staff dormitory received a phone call, his second quarter rent together until the third quarter together.
谢志强算了一下，员工宿舍那边大概可以省下4000块左右，但对于他的资金缺口来说只是杯水车薪。
Xie Zhiqiang calculated that the staff dormitory side can save about 4000 dollars, but for his funding gap is only a small amount of money.
妻子怨恨起门面房东不尽人情，抱怨了几句，但谢志强说对方也是没得办法，“他现在的处境比我还难”。
His wife resented the inhumanity of the front door, complained a few words, but Xie Zhiqiang said the other side is also no way, "he is in a more difficult situation than I am."
门面房的房东姓高，在市里也有一家集餐饮和住宿为一体的中型酒店，租了一栋3层楼，雇了40多位员工。
The landlord of the facade had a high family name, and there was a medium-sized hotel in the city, which combined catering and accommodation, rented a three-story building and employed more than 40 employees.
电话里，高哥跟谢志强说，自己眼下也急等钱用，去年11月刚斥巨资装修了酒店，整个账面上都是亏空的，本想借过年期间赚点钱回本，没想到转眼遇到了这种情况，“年前光是各种公司年会、年夜饭就退掉20来桌，年后的损失还没有计算——不是算不出来，实在是不敢算啊！”高哥说，如果正月十五酒店还不能开业，自己恐怕就得去借高利贷维持了，这关口找他说啥都行，就是不要谈房租的事。
In November last year, he just spent a lot of money to renovate the hotel, the whole book is a deficit, I would like to borrow some money during the New Year, but the loss of 20 years ago has not been calculated - not out of it, I am afraid you have to borrow usury!
谢志强沉默半晌，没再说了。
Xie Zhiqiang was silent for a long time.
高哥之前对自己也挺照顾，同一条街上的其他门面房租至少都是半年一交，但高哥从一开始就同意自己3个月交一次，已是给自己行了很大方便了，这关口自己再要求减租，实在有些于心不忍。
Gogo also took good care of himself, the same street on the other front room rent is at least half a year, but from the beginning, Gog agreed to their own three-month delivery, has been a great convenience to themselves, this point of their own request for rent reduction, is a bit impatient.
但问题还在眼前摆着，既然高哥那边帮不上忙，谢志强只能自己想办法。
But the problem is still in front of us, since Gaoge can not help, Xie Zhiqiang can only do their own way.
可除了借钱，还能怎么办呢？以前开店时借的钱还没有还完，眼下又能找谁开口、能借多少呢？谢志强先从心里琢磨了几个靠谱的朋友，想好了怎么开口，但电话打过去说了半天，一个个都表示无能为力。
But other than borrowing money, what else can I do? Who can I ask and how much I can borrow from the money I borrowed when I opened the shop? Xie Zhiqiang thought about how to open his mouth after thinking of a few trusted friends, but he called for a long time and said nothing.
“等过段时间疫情过去了咱一起喝个酒，说道说道。
"Let's have a drink when the epidemic is over," he said.
我这个年也过得很难，包了两台大巴车想去景区接送客人，结果一来景区全关了，一分钱赚不到不说，还得按天给车主交租金，给司机付工资，现在结果别说借钱出去了，再这样下去，我连房子都准备拿出去抵押了……”一位朋友在电话里向谢志强抱怨道。
I had a hard year, too, with two buses that wanted to pick up guests in the scenic area, only to be shut down, paying rent to the car owner and paying the driver by the day, and now I'm going to mortgage the house no matter how much money I borrow.
谢志强无奈，只好又打电话找老家亲戚求助。
Xie Zhiqiang helpless, had to call home relatives for help again.
但亲戚们大多表示刚过完年，手头没太多余钱，如果真着急的话，三五千块可以，多了确实拿不出——这种说法在谢志强看来便是委婉的拒绝。
But most of the relatives said that just after the New Year, there is not too much money on hand, if really anxious, three or five thousand dollars can, more can not be given - in Xie Zhiqiang's view is a euphemism for refusal.
他觉得自己还没到找亲戚们“众筹”的地步。
He felt that he had not yet reached the point of "crowdfunding" his relatives.
最后，妻子让他去问问表哥。
Finally, his wife asked him to ask his cousin.
表哥平时炒股，手里颇宽裕，但两家之前没有太多交集，只是逢年过节见面打个招呼。
Cousin usually stock market, in the hands of a good deal, but before the two families do not have too much intersection, just meet at the festival to greet.
但这会儿，谢志强也顾不得太多了，电话直接打到刘云表哥那里。
But now, Xie Zhiqiang also can't take care of too much, the telephone calls directly to cousin Liu Yun there.
谢志强开门见山，说想问他借5万应个急，表哥却说自己也很为难，如果放在平时这点钱不是问题，但现在不行，一来股市还处于春节休市期内，自己拿不出钱来；二来开市之后，看兆头自己的股票可能要大跌，到时还说不好是平仓还是补仓。
He said he wanted to borrow 50,000 yuan from him, but his cousin said he was in a difficult position too. If this money is not a problem in normal times, but not now, because the stock market is still closed during the Spring Festival holiday, their own money;
不过表哥后来又说，如果股市开市后自己选择平仓的话，可以拿钱给谢志强应个急，但也就只能给他用几个月——表哥言之凿凿，按照“非典”那年的行情来看，大盘大概会动荡几个月，然后就会反弹，他肯定要抓那个反弹节点，到时不能没有钱。
However, cousin later said that if the stock market opened their own open position, Xie Zhiqiang can take money to Xie Zhiqiang, but can only give him a few months - cousin chisel, according to the "SARS" market, then will rebound, he will certainly seize the rebound node, then can not have no money.
虽然只是“如果”，谢志强还是在电话里对表哥千恩万谢。
Although only "if," Xie Zhiqiang or in the telephone to his cousin thousands of thanks.
另一边，陈德河还是回家了。
On the other side, Chen Dehe went home.
村里的情况没有李贵义说得那么严重，“劝返点”也并不是拒绝所有村民进出，只要做好登记，测一下体温，不发烧的话也没什么问题。
The situation in the village is not as serious as Li Guiyi, and the "talk point" is not to deny all villagers access, as long as the registration, temperature, do not have a fever is no problem.
村干部找了陈德河，并不是追究他“擅自”出村的责任，而是批评他不该绕过村里的“劝返点”，从小路离开——这是“对全村人、乃至对全市人民的身体健康不负责任”。
Instead of holding him responsible for leaving the village "without permission," village officials criticized him for not bypassing the village's "talking points" and leaving the path - "irresponsible for the health of the whole village, and indeed of the city."
陈德河嘴上一再道歉，心里却不断咒骂李贵义——肯定是被李贵义举报了。
Chen Dehe repeatedly apologized, but his heart constantly cursed Li Guiyi - must be reported by Li Guiyi.
陈德河决定还是得每天去城里看看，虽然“劳务市场”不开放，也没有人雇他干活，来回车费还得倒贴，但他喜欢跟刘阔待在一起，可能也想多受受年轻人积极乐观的影响。
Chen Dehe decided to visit the city every day. Although the "labor market" was closed and no one hired him to work, the back and forth fares had to be reversed, but he liked spending time with Liu and probably wanted to be more influenced by the young people's positive optimism.
可刘阔这几天却越发低落了，按照计划，正月初八他该去一家单位粉刷围墙，正月初十去一家农村自建房刮腻子，元宵节过后去一处建筑工地当“壮工”，但眼下初八的活已过了期，当初的联系人告诉他，“单位围墙可能暂时不弄了，你等通知吧”；正月初十的农村自建房主人一直不接电话，刘阔也不知道是个什么意思；而那处建筑工地的负责人老张则直接通知他，“工人回不来，你先在家歇两天”。
He went to a rural building to build putty in the first ten months of the first month. After the Lantern Festival, he went to a construction site to work as a "laborer."
刘阔刚开始还总向陈德河抱怨，说现在只要给钱他什么都愿意干，之后两天就变得越发沉默了，坐在等活的地方一言不发，一坐便是一整个上午或下午。
At first, Liu always complained to Chen Dehe that he would do anything for money now. Then he became more and more silent for two days.
陈德河有些不安起来——他心里隐隐发觉刘阔“不太正常”，也担心他开口向自己借钱——于是，初九下午，他找了个借口和刘阔分别，独自一人去街上溜达，把那块写有“刷墙、铺地板、开水沟、疏通下水道”的牌子从工具包里拿出来抱在怀里。
Chen Dehe became restless - he was vaguely aware that Liu was "not himself" and worried that he might ask for money from himself - so on the afternoon of the ninth day, he found an excuse to walk down the street alone with Liu Kuo, taking out the sign that said "Brush the wall, lay the floor, open the ditch, dredge the sewer" and hold it in his arms.
陈德河的运气不错，溜达到一个小区门口时被人叫住，问会不会“疏通下水道”，陈德河指指怀里的牌子，说自己很专业，对方马上让他跟着进小区。
Chen Dehe good luck, slip to the door of a community was stopped, asked if "dredge sewers," Chen Dehe pointed to the arms of the sign, said they are very professional, the other side immediately let him follow into the community.
叫住陈德河的人是这个小区的物业经理，经过一番繁琐的问询、登记、体温检查，陈德河才得知，3号居民楼前的下水管道堵了。
Called Chen Dehe is the property manager of this community, after a tedious inquiry, registration, body temperature check, Chen Dehe learned that the residential building No. 3 in front of the drainage pipe blocked.
陈德河满心感慨，真是“来得早不如来得巧”，以往很少能够接到这样的活。
Chen Dehe was full of emotion, really "come sooner rather than later", rarely able to receive such work.
因为小区物业都有自己的工人，这种活很少出去找人干。
Because residential properties have their own workers, this kind of work rarely out to find someone to do.
但这个小区的物业工人恰好过年回了老家，而自己又恰好溜达到小区门口。
But the real estate workers in this area just over the New Year back home, and himself just slip to the door of the community.
其实陈德河并不真的精通疏通下水道，以往接到的活也多是疏通居民家中被废纸、异物阻塞的马桶，带上工具就能干，只是费点时间，却没有什么技术要求。
In fact, Chen Dehe is not really proficient in dredging sewers, past work is also to dredge residents' homes of waste paper, foreign objects blocked toilets, tools can be able to take a little time, but no technical requirements.
这种小区的公共管道，他完全没干过。
He had never done any public plumbing for this kind of neighborhood.
当然，他也不会放弃这次难得的赚钱机会，毕竟是开年之后的第一单“生意”。
Of course, he will not give up this rare opportunity to make money, after all, is the first single "business" after the opening year.
陈德河装模作样看了半天，说能干。
Chen Dehe pretended to be able to read for a long time.
物业经理问他多少钱，以往这种活在市面上都是“800包工”，但陈德河给物业经理开了“200一天”的价格，物业经理虽然不太高兴，但可能眼下确实不想再跑去街上找人，还是答应了他，但同时嘱咐他“尽快完工”。
The property manager asked him how much money he used to live on as a "800-day contract." But Chen Dehe offered a 200-day price to the property manager, who, although unhappy, might not want to go out into the street again for the time being, but told him to "finish as soon as possible."
双方约好第二天开始施工，走出小区，陈德河打算叫刘阔一起来干，因为涉及到挖沟，他觉得自己一个人干不了。
The two sides agreed to start construction the next day, out of the community, Chen Dehe is going to ask Liu Guohe to work together, because when it comes to digging ditches, he feels unable to do it alone.
但陈德河给刘阔打了三遍电话，对方却一直没有接。
But Chen Dehe called Liu Cuo three times, but the other side has not answered.
2020年2月3日一早，谢志强在手机上下载了股票软件，开市第一天，他想看一眼大盘，“作为一个从不炒股的人，我也跟大部分股民一样紧张了”。
In the early morning of February 3, 2020, Xie Zhiqiang downloaded the stock software on his mobile phone. On the first day of the market, he wanted to take a look at the market.
上午9点开始，A股大盘一泻千里，随便点开几只泛绿的股票，评论区里哀鸿遍野。
Start at 9 a.m., A-share market a thousand miles, open a few green stock, comment area.
谢志强很想问一下刘云表哥具体买了哪些股票，但又觉得这话实在不好开口，毕竟对方知道自己平时并不炒股，这关口他紧盯别人的股票，目的性太强。
Xie Zhiqiang would like to ask Cousin Liu Yun which specific stock, but feel that this is really difficult to open, after all, the other side knows that they are not usually stocks, this level of his focus on other people's stocks, too strong-minded.
谢志强也承认自己有些“不地道”，他希望表哥的股票下跌，这样表哥就可以兑现之前的借钱承诺了，但他又不希望跌得太多，表哥那边损失太大，自己就更难开口了。
Xie also admitted that he was "not authentic", he wanted his cousin's stock to fall, so that the cousin can fulfil the previous commitment to borrow money, but he did not want to fall too much, cousin losses too much, their own more difficult to speak.
新闻上说本地单位恢复上班的时间暂定于2月9日，谢志强决定也把这个时间作为自己的开业时间。
On the news, the local unit is tentatively scheduled to return to work on February 9, and Xie decided to use the same time as his opening day.
他算了一下，满打满算还有5天。
He calculated that there were five days to go before he was full.
下午3点钟，谢志强和妻子照例又去火锅店附近散步，路上依旧没有人，谢志强去后厨看了眼食材，几乎全放坏了。
At 3 pm, Xie Zhiqiang and his wife, as usual, went for a walk around the hotpot shop. There was still no one on the road.
几天前，妻子从新闻上看到有些酒店将年前购进的蔬菜拿出来卖掉，就和谢志强商量，自家能不能也这样做，至少减少一些损失。
A few days ago, when his wife saw on the news that some hotels were selling vegetables they had bought before, she discussed with Xie Zhiqiang whether they could do the same, or at least reduce some losses.
谢志强没同意，他说周边饭店都是年前采购的食材，现在也没有一家出来卖菜的，自己不想开这个头，再等等。
Xie Zhiqiang did not agree, he said that the surrounding restaurants were purchased years ago, now no one out to sell vegetables, do not want to open this head, and so on and so on.
20多天过去了，谢志强清理了冷柜，顺手扔掉一些已经开始变质的，又把一些还能吃的装进袋子拿回了家。
More than 20 days later, Xie Zhiqiang cleaned the freezer, threw away some that had started to deteriorate, and put some food into the bag and took it home.
又盘算起哪些物品开业后还能用，哪些则必须要丢掉。
And then we figure out which items will be available after business and which items will have to be thrown away.
最后算出结果是，开业后单是重新购置食材，就要花大概4万多块——这个数字谢志强勉强可以接受，只要表哥那边的5万块钱能够到账，火锅店便可以继续维持下去。
It turned out that it would take about 40,000 dollars to repurchase the ingredients after opening - a figure Xie Zhiqiang could barely accept, as long as his cousin's 50,000 yuan can be accounted for, the hotpot shop can continue to maintain.
傍晚，谢志强在火锅店微信群里发消息了解员工在家状况，顺便问一下9号哪些人能来上班。
In the evening, Xie Zhiqiang in the hotpot shop micro-letter group sent messages to understand the condition of the staff at home, by the way, who can come to work No. 9.
多数外地员工表示可以，只有勤杂工老王私信谢志强说，自己正在老家一个单位当门卫，年后不回去了。
Most of the non-resident workers said yes, only the handyman Lao Wang private letter Xie Zhiqiang said, he is his hometown unit as a guard, years later will not go back.
老王说那家单位以前的门卫家在外省，年后一时半会儿回不来。
Lao Wang said that the former guard's house in the province, after a year or so will not be able to return.
单位着急用人，在那做保洁的邻居把他介绍去了，一个月2500块钱，跟在火锅店干勤杂工收入差不多，但是离家近。
Unit anxious servants, who do cleaning neighbors introduced him, a month 2500 yuan, like the pot shop handyman income, but close to home.
谢志强无奈，只好同意了，随即开始思考，老王走了，得赶紧找人顶上。
Xie Zhiqiang reluctantly, had to agree, immediately began to think, Lao Wang left, had to hurry to find the top.
2月9号火锅店究竟能不能开得起来，谢志强说眼下自己心里还没有底。
Feb. 9 hotpot shop after all whether can open up, Xie Zhiqiang said his heart is not yet bottom.
而且即便开起来，之后的生意怎样他也说不好。
And even then, he couldn't say how business would turn out.
“能撑多久，还是得看这段时间能借到多少钱。
"How long I can hang on depends on how much money I can borrow during that time.
”这天下午4点，陈德河被物业经理骂了一顿。
Chen Dehe was scolded by the property manager at 4 p.m. that day.
因为他把下水管道挖开后，才发现在自己根本干不了这活。
Because he dug out the sewer and found he couldn't do it at all.
陈德河望着自己费了一天功夫挖出的那条1米深、3米长的沟，有些绝望。
Chen Dehe watched helplessly as he dug the 1-metre-deep, 3-meter-long trench he had spent a day digging.
总管已经露出来了，但没有阀门，也没见到管道接口，陈德河说自己既没有工具，也不知道接下来该干什么。
The main pipe had been exposed, but there was no valve and no pipe connection. Chen said he had neither the tools nor the next steps.
他给刘阔打电话，想让刘阔过来帮忙，刘阔听陈德河描述完现场情况，说自己也帮不上忙，明显是物业经理贪便宜才雇他的，按说这种活需要先联系化粪车来抽干污水才能施工，而且工作量根本不是“200元一天”能够干好的。
He called Liu Guohe to let Liu Kuo come to help him. Liu Guohe listened to Chen Dehe describe the scene and said he could not help. He was apparently hired because the property manager was greedy and needed to contact a septic tank to drain the sewage.
陈德河问刘阔认不认识“专业干这活的”，兴许自己可以把活转让出去，至少也能跟着专业施工队干几天，赚个饭钱，刘阔让陈德河先等等，过了一会儿，回复说，自己认识的那帮人还在外地老家过年没回来，这活儿没法干。
Mr. Chen asked Mr. Liu if he knew the "professional worker" and perhaps he could transfer the job to a professional construction team for at least a few days to make money for the meal.
最后，刘阔劝陈德河“聪明点”，“看情况不对赶紧溜吧，不然还得费劲把坑填了，把地面恢复原状，搞不好小区还得罚他钱”。
Finally, Liu Guohe advised Chen Dehe to be "smart." "See if things are not right, or you will have to work hard to fill the hole, restore the ground to its original state, or you may have to pay him a fine.
陈德河却没有跑，说自己干的事情自己得负责，于是又把物业经理叫来，把情况一五一十地说了。
Chen Dehe did not run, said he was responsible for their own things, so he called the property manager to tell the truth.
物业经理闻讯而至，先把陈德河臭骂了一顿，又让他不要动了，东西就这么摆着，人走就行。
When the property manager heard the news, he scolded Chen Dehe and told him not to move. It was all there.
陈德河没动身子，手里依旧拿着铁锨。
Chen Dehe did not move, still holding the shovel in his hand.
物业经理以为他在等“工钱”，从兜里掏出20元钱，打发陈德河“哪儿来的回哪儿去”。
The property manager thought he was waiting for "wages," took 20 yuan out of his pocket and sent Chen Dehe back "where did you come from?"
陈德河急忙解释说自己把坑填起来再走，物业经理摆摆手让他别管坑了，之后再找专业人员来施工，兴许还得挖坑，反正也不碍事，索性先这样放着吧。
Chen Dehe hastened to explain that he filled up the pit before walking, the property manager waved him out of the pit, and then asked a professional to do the work.
陈德河只好收拾东西离开。
Chen Dehe had to pack up and leave.
回头又说，那个物业经理真不厚道，自己虽然没弄好下水道，但至少忙活一天挖了那么大个沟，应该算他“一天的工”，结果才给20块钱，就像“打发要饭的”，太缺德了。
In retrospect, the real estate manager really bad, although he did not do a good job in the sewer, but at least a day dug so big trench, should be counted as his "day's work," only to pay 20 dollars, like "send food", too immoral.
晚上，谢志强和妻子商量了好半天，最终决定还是由妻子给表哥打了个电话，“能不能借钱，你去要个准信儿，不行的话我得赶紧想别的办法。
In the evening, Xie Zhiqiang and his wife discussed for a long time, finally decided by his wife to his cousin on the phone, "Can you borrow money, you go to ask for a letter, if not I have to think of other ways.
”他又怕妻子多想，还补充说，“表哥钱借给咱是缘分，不借是本分，咱也不会为这个怪罪人家。
"He feared his wife to think more, and added," My cousin lent us the money because it was fate, not duty, and I will not blame the family for it.
”谢志强说自己做了两手准备，万一表哥不同意借钱，他还有最后一条路子——网贷。
Xie said he had made two moves in case his cousin didn't agree to lend him money, and he had one last avenue -- a net loan.
谢志强手机上装过几个网贷APP，总授信额度大概有四五万元，刚开店时资金紧张，用过一阵子，后来现金流稳定了，嫌网贷利息太高，便没再用。
Xie Zhiqiang mobile phone installed a few Internet loan APP, the total credit line of about 450,000 yuan, just opened shop capital constraints, used for a while, then cash flow stabilized, suspected that the Internet loan interest rate is too high, no longer used.
“如果表哥那边不肯借钱，我也只能靠网贷先维持一段时间了，但这东西挺不靠谱，利息高是一方面，主要是别看现在有个三五万额度，谁知道真到用的时候，他们还借不借给。
"If my cousin refuses to borrow money, I can only rely on the net loan for a while, but this thing is quite unreliable, high interest rate is on the one hand, mainly do not look at the current thirty or fifty thousand dollars, who knows when really useful, they will not lend.
”谢志强说。
'he said.
幸运的是，表哥同意了，数额就是先前说好的5万。
Fortunately, the cousin agreed, the amount of 50, 000 as previously agreed.
刘云对表哥表示感谢，顺便问了一句，“股票怎么样？”表哥打着哈哈说，“使劲跌呗，还能怎样。
Liu Yun thanked his cousin and by the way asked him, "How about the stock?" The cousin said with a ha ha, "Just drop hard, what else can you do?"
”之后便挂了电话。
"Then he hung up the phone.
不久，谢志强的手机上传来消息音，钱到账了，他终于松了口气。
Soon word came from Xie Zhiqiang's cell phone. The money arrived and he was finally relieved.
转念又想起勤杂工的事，刘云推荐了自己老家的一个侄子，谢志强没同意，他说新招的勤杂工最好是本市人，这样会省很多麻烦。
Turning to the laborers, Liu Yun recommended a nephew from his hometown, Xie Zhiqiang, who did not agree. He said the new laborers should be from the city, which would save a lot of trouble.
身边也没个合适的人，谢志强只好找A4纸打印了2张“招聘启事”，准备去看店时贴在卷帘门上。
There was no suitable person around, so Xie Zhiqiang had to print two "job notices" on A4 sheets of paper, ready to post them on the shutter door as he went to the store.
在招聘启事“工资”这一栏里，谢志强有点发愁。
In the "salary" column of the job advertisement, Xie Zhiqiang was a little worried.
想来想去，先写了“月薪2500，不包食宿”，之后觉得不妥，又改成“月薪1800，包食宿”，还是觉得不妥，最后狠了狠心，改成“月薪2000，年龄不限，包住宿两餐”。
The salary of each month is 2500 yuan, including room and board, but the salary is 1800 yuan per month, including room and board.
尾声最后一次见到陈德河时，他还在供销商场门前的空地上等活，那天我没见到刘阔，陈德河说上午打过电话了，刘阔说自己身体不太舒服，今天不出工了。
The last time I saw Chen Dehe, he was waiting in the open space in front of the store. I did not see Liu Guo.The other day I did not see him.
但陈德河说完却撇了撇嘴，说刘阔这孩子“不实在”，我问他为什么这么说，陈德河说他在电话里听到刘阔那边的背景音很杂，肯定不是在家里。
But Chen Dehe said, but skimmed, said Liu Kuo this child is "not true," I asked him why he said so, Chen Dehe said he heard the background Liu Kuo side of the background very miscellaneous, certainly not at home.
陈德河认为刘阔八成是接了什么活不想跟自己说，怕自己分了他的“工时”。
Chen Dehe thought Liu Kuo 80% is to take what live do not want to say to himself, afraid of his own "working hours".
陈德河因此很不高兴，他说刘阔这孩子太“奸”，喜欢“吃独食”，自己有活联系他，他有活却藏着掖着。
Chen Dehe is very unhappy, he said Liu Guo this child is too "traitor", like "eat a solitary food", he has a living contact with him, he is living but hiding.
那天陈德河从上午9点等到下午4点，有时沿马路溜达一圈，“刷墙、铺地板、开水沟、疏通下水道”的牌子一直挂在胸前，但没有人来找他干活。
Chen Dehe sometimes took a stroll along the road from 9am to 4pm. "Brush the wall, lay the floor, open the gutter, dredge the drain" was hanging on his chest, but no one came to work for him.
中午吃了自带的烧饼和炸藕合，下午就说有些后悔了，这几天不该从家里出来，就赚了20块钱，还不够这几天坐车和抽烟的钱。
At noon I ate my own cake and lotus root root. In the afternoon, I said I regretted that I should not have come out of my house these days.
他决定第二天不“出工”，等正月十五或是之后再说吧。
He decided not to "go out of work" the next day until the fifteenth day of the first month or later.
我给他说，谢志强的火锅店就在附近，想找个本地的勤杂工，陈德河起初有些兴趣，但一听薪资待遇是“管两餐，月薪2000”时，马上把脑袋晃得像个拨浪鼓一样，“这怎么可能？真他妈越来越抠，2000块钱就想找个壮劳力，合着1天不到70块钱，我去工地和泥巴都比这赚得多。
I told him that Xie Zhiqiang's hotpot shop was nearby, looking for a local handyman. Chen Tak-hee was interested at first, but he shook his head like a rattle drum.
”之后便背起工具包，朝附近的公交车站走去了。
"Then he picked up his kit and headed for the nearby bus stop.
编辑| 沈燕妮点击联系人间编辑___林 远80后，山东人_本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
After contacting the world editor _ Lin for 80 yuan, Shandong _ article is an exclusive contract with Netease News Studio and enjoys exclusive copyright.
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
Bye-bye Police chiefs unworthy of being a civil servant at Rest & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
要到什么时候，才能开工大吉丨人间。
When is the time to start the business?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "要到什么时候，才能开工大吉丨人间";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; When did it start to operate?;
var msg_desc = "“三六九，往外走”，可这个初九还能出门吗？";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
