无名之辈。
No one.
王路  郭儒逸。
Wang Lu Guo Ruyi.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：王路 郭儒逸来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）点火、踩离合、挂档、松手刹、给油……货车启动之后，那群无名之辈就知道自己已经成了亡命徒。
Author: Wang Lu Guo Ruyi Source: Business figures (ID: biz-leaders) ignition, clutch, hook, release brake, oil... after the truck started, the group knew that they had become desperate.
他们身上背负太多的人命，有自己的，有家人的，有同事的，还有湖北那成千上万的医生与患者的。
They carry too many human lives, some family, some co-workers, and thousands of doctors and patients in Hubei province.
在漫漫的冬夜里，他们要与病毒赛跑，要与时间争命。
On a long winter night, they race against the virus, against time.
此行之前，他们是一群小人物，无名之辈。
Before they came here, they were a bunch of little people.
此行之后，他们依旧是一群小人物，无名之辈。
After the trip, they were still a bunch of little people.
寒冬夜行人刚入湖北境内，张志强就把防毒面具戴在了头上。
Cold winter night pedestrians just entered Hubei territory, Zhang Zhiqiang put gas mask on his head.
防毒面具是300块买的。
The gas mask was bought for 300 yuan.
至于口罩、防护服，他早就装备好了。
As for masks and protective clothing, he was well equipped.
当时是2020年1月25日，大年初一。
It was January 25, 2020, the first day of the Chinese New Year.
他开着一辆天津牌照的厢式货车，已经奔驰一千多公里。
He was driving a van with a Tianjin license plate and had driven more than a thousand kilometers.
空旷。
Open space.
疲惫。
Tiredness.
有点紧张。
A little nervous.
他刚在货车里度过他的除夕。
He had just spent his New Year's Eve in the van.
百世快递司机张志强距离新型冠状病毒确认“人传人”已经过去5天，武汉也在两天前宣布“封城”——张志强对疫情多少有一些了解。
Five days after Zhang Zhiqiang, the Centennial Express driver, confirmed that "human-to-human transmission" has been confirmed, Wuhan announced two days ago - Zhang Zhiqiang has some knowledge of the epidemic.
28岁的张志强是百世快递的一名物流司机。
Zhang Zhiqiang, 28, is a logistics driver at Century Express.
除夕那天他们已经放假，他正准备回河北沧州老家过年。
They had a holiday on New Year's Eve, and he was going back to Cangzhou, Hebei Province.
还未及出发，就听同事说有一批物资急需送往武汉。
Before we set out, I heard from my colleague that a shipment of goods was urgently needed to Wuhan.
没有想太多，他找领导报名，接下了任务。
Not thinking too much, he asked for a leader to sign up for the job.
晚9点他回住处洗了个澡，吃了个饭，收拾了简单的行李。
At 9 p.m. he went back to his apartment for a bath, a meal and simple luggage.
10点，他从天津武清接货出发。
He picked up the goods from Tianjin Wuqing at 10 o'clock.
“一进到武清，那里的人就拿喷雾器给我车辆消毒。
"When I got to Wuqing, the people there disinfected my car with the sprayer.
”车子上是1200瓶消毒液。
"The car had 1200 bottles of disinfectant.
张志强那辆长4米2的厢货货车能够保温，所以消毒液不会冻上。
Zhang Zhiqiang's 4-meter-long vans keep warm, so the disinfectant won't freeze.
“出发后我走的是大广高速，经过山东、河南，然后就直奔湖北。
"After setting out, I went on a large-scale highway, through Shandong and Henan, then straight to Hubei.
从天津武清出发，全程有1280公里。
From Tianjin Wuqing, the whole journey has 1280 kilometers.
”临行前，张志强打电话告知了父母，父母都是党员，对他的决定都表示支持，只是一再叮嘱他要注意自身安全。
Before he left, Zhang called his parents, both of whom were party members, to express support for his decision, but repeatedly told him to watch his own safety.
他后来才得知，自己是天津市第一个赶往武汉运送救急物资的物流司机。
He later learned that he was the first Tianjin city to transport emergency supplies to Wuhan logistics drivers.
“我年轻，抵抗力比较好点，还没有结婚成家。
"I'm younger, more resistant, and haven't married and started a family.
我觉得这是做好事，干脆就让我来做这个好事吧。
I think it's a good deed. Let me do it.
”他对“商业人物”说。
'he said to the Businessman.
张志强出发时，重庆司机肖建波刚吃完年夜饭。
When Zhang Zhiqiang set out, Chongqing driver Xiao Jianbo had just finished his New Year's dinner.
他在申通快递的微信工作群看到消息，要运送一批物资去武汉。
In Shentong express in the micro-letter working group to see the message, to transport a batch of goods to Wuhan.
此时群里报名的同事已经十分踊跃，他立刻给队长打了电话，想承担这个任务。
At this point in the group of registered colleagues have been very active, he immediately called the captain, want to undertake this task.
当晚九点多，他和一位同事得到通知，出发去重庆双福国际农贸批发市场。
Later that night, he and a colleague were informed to leave for Chongqing Shuangfu International Wholesale Agricultural and Trade Market.
两辆车一共装上了40吨蔬菜，有西蓝花、西芹、白菜等等。
The two cars were loaded with 40 tons of vegetables, including blue, celery, cabbage and so on.
大年初一早上十点，他和另一位同事从重庆启程，向武汉进发。
At 10 a.m. on the New Year's Day, he and another colleague left Chongqing for Wuhan.
除夕，湖北累计确诊病例，729例。
On New Year's Eve, 729 cases were diagnosed in Hubei province.
初一，1052例。
1 st day, 1052 cases.
病毒在跑，从武汉到湖北到全国；救命的车也在跑，从全国到湖北到武汉。
The virus is running from Wuhan to Hubei to the whole country; life-saving cars are also running, from the whole country to Hubei to Wuhan.
在湖南，正在益阳市桃江县老家过年的德邦快递运输司机谢超锋，早早做好了准备，要在第二天清早赶回长沙，送一车物资去黄石市中心医院。
In Hunan, Xie Chaofeng, a German express delivery driver who is spending the New Year in Taojiang County, Yiyang City, was well prepared to return to Changsha early the next morning to deliver a load of supplies to Huangshi City Central Hospital.
报名时，他对同在德邦工作的妻子彭佳丽说，2020年刚开头，咱们应该做点有意义的事。
'At the beginning of 2020, we should do something meaningful, 'he told his wife, Peng Jiali, who also works in Devon.
妻子答：“你要去的话，我也跟你去！”德邦快递司机谢超峰和妻子彭佳丽在西安，中通快递的运输司机何建文、朱坤，先后在微信群报名，要求承担前往湖北赤壁同济蒲纺医院运送医疗物资的任务。
"If you are going, I will also go with you!" Debang express driver Xie Chaofeng and his wife Peng Jiali in Xi'an, the transportation drivers of Zhongtong Express, He Jianwen and Zhu Kun, have signed up to take on the task of carrying medical supplies to Tongji Pun Hospital in Chibi, Hubei Province.
两人都是退伍军人，他们说，部队一直是这么教育的，“有什么事要往前冲”。
Both veterans, they said, had been taught that "there is something to rush forward."
在江西，家住上饶的中通快递运输司机余连华，报名承担了去湖北疫区送物资的任务，将驱车200多公里回南昌待命。
In Jiangxi, Yu Lianhua, a Shanghai-based express delivery driver, has signed up to deliver supplies to Hubei province and will drive more than 200 kilometers back to Nanchang for standby.
疫情严峻，全国各地的运输司机们在此刻挺身而出，踊跃承担起往武汉运送物资的任务。
The epidemic is severe, all over the country's transport drivers at this moment to come forward to take up the task of shipping supplies to Wuhan.
他们中的很多人，加入由阿里菜鸟搭建的绿色通道，满载着疫区急需的各种医疗物资，向湖北疾驰而去。
Many of them, joining a green passage built by Ali rookies, loaded with much-needed medical supplies from the affected areas, sped off to Hubei.
负重前行何建文、朱坤大年初二从西安出发，运输过程，有点儿小曲折。
Load before He Jianwen, Zhu Kun New Year from Xi'an, the transport process, a little twists and turns.
他们运的是口罩、防护服和医用手套等物资，目的地是湖北赤壁同济蒲纺医院。
They were transporting masks, protective clothing and medical gloves to the Tongji Pufang Hospital in Chibi, Hubei Province.
他们到达时，赤壁已经有14例确诊病例，都在这里接受治疗。
By the time they arrived, there were already 14 confirmed cases in Red Cliff, where they were being treated.
中通快递司机何健文到赤壁南收费站时，他们被告知前方封路，进站口被堵，无法通过。
He Jianwen, a express delivery driver, arrived at the Stanley South Toll Station. They were told that the road was blocked and the entrance was blocked.
收费站的工作人员十分热心，看到他们是来送救灾物资的，当即拿出自己的手机帮忙查询路线，告诉他们可以掉头去赤壁西收费站。
The staff at the toll booth were very enthusiastic. Seeing that they had come to deliver the relief materials, they immediately took out their mobile phones to help find the route and told them to turn around and go to the Chibi West Toll Station.
然而，到了赤壁西收费站，因为没有通行证，工作人员拦住了他们。
However, they were stopped at the west terminal in Chibi because they did not have a permit.
离医院只剩不到20公里了，却眼看着物资被阻、无法进入，两位司机着急起来。
Less than 20 kilometers from the hospital, the two drivers were anxious to see supplies blocked and inaccessible.
一路驶来，高速路上的服务站都关闭了，他们在路上一口饭都没吃，一直只靠喝热水顶着。
As they drove along, the service stations on the highway were closed and they were left without a bite to eat on the road, drinking only hot water.
顾不上饥饿，两人找到临行前车队队长给他们发的武汉新冠肺炎应急指挥部联系电话，又按照提示，尝试联系赤壁当地的指挥部。
Ignoring hunger, the two men went to the former team leader to send them Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Emergency Command telephone, and as prompted, try to contact the local headquarters in Chibi.
几番辗转，他们得到了一个手机号码，按照要求，把物资清单、车辆的图片和情况说明发了过去。
After some tossing and turning, they were given a cell phone number and, as requested, the inventory list, the pictures of the vehicle and the description of the vehicle were distributed.
不到十分钟，峰回路转，对方打来电话，他们终于得以被放行。
Less than ten minutes later, the caller called and they were finally released.
大年初三，从青岛出发、载着9000件防护服前往武汉同济医院的日日顺物流司机綦光涛，遭遇到了长途司机最不想碰到的事情：糟糕的天气。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, Qiguang Tao, a daily logistics driver who leaves Qingdao with 9,000 protective suits on his way to Wuhan Tongji Hospital, has encountered the last thing a long-distance driver wants to encounter: bad weather.
车上的9000套防护服，是杜邦公司捐赠给同济医院的。
Du Pont donated 9,000 sets of protective clothing to Tongji Hospital.
因为找不到承接的物流公司，只能向菜鸟物流平台求助。
Because cannot find to undertake the logistics company, can only turn to the inexperienced logistics platform for help.
通过公司，綦光涛接下了这项任务。
Through the company, Qiguang Tao took over the task.
他和同伴在凌晨出发，每开300公里左右就轮换。
He and his companions set out in the early hours of the morning and rotated around 300 kilometres.
可刚到日照，就开始下雪。
But as soon as the sun came, it began to snow.
车到了江苏、安徽境内，雪越下越大。
The car to Jiangsu, Anhui territory, the snow under more and more.
凌晨三点半后，雪终于变小，但又开始夹杂雨点，山间起了雾，看不清路况。
After 3: 30 in the morning, the snow finally became small, but began to add rain, the mountain fog, can not see the road.
为了安全，他们不得不放缓了速度。
They had to slow down to be safe.
直到下午一点多，才赶到同济医院。
I didn't arrive at Tongji Hospital until after 1 pm.
一路上，车子几乎没有停过，连续开了13个小时，两人只吃了几个苹果，喝了几罐咖啡。
They drove for 13 hours without stopping. They ate only a few apples and drank a few cans of coffee.
“大概人一有事，就感觉不到困了。
"I suppose one feels no sleepy now that one is in business.
”綦光涛说。
"said Qiguang Tao.
那段时间，湖北境内的服务站已经大量关闭，几乎每个司机都饿了肚子。
During that time, service stations in Hubei Province have been closed down and almost every driver is hungry.
谢超锋运气好，他说幸好妻子细心，带了一顿饭，虽然不够两个人分着吃，但保温桶的质量不错，送完物资，饭还是温乎的。
Xie Xiangfeng lucky, he said that his wife took a careful meal, although not enough for two people to share food, but the quality of the incubator, the delivery of goods, rice or mild.
《我是传奇》在谢超锋和妻子的记忆中，当时路上空旷得“好像那条路就是专门给我们设置的一样”。
"I am Legend" in Xie Chaofeng and his wife's memory, when the road was empty "as if the road was set up for us."
一进入湖北，高速路口就都是检查点，拉起了几道警戒线严阵以待，“感觉气氛立刻就紧张起来了”。
As soon as enter Hubei, high-speed intersection are checkpoints, pull up a few lines of warning stand-by, "the atmosphere immediately tense."
大年初二当天，黄石的确诊病例已经达到了36例，而黄石市中心医院是黄石两家定点救治医院之一。
On the second day of the New Year, the confirmed cases of Yellowstone have reached 36 cases, and Huangshi central hospital is one of the two fixed-point treatment hospitals.
为了保护他们，医院最后没有让他们送到院区，而是找了一块空旷的地方，将物资转移到几辆私家车上，转送回医院。
In order to protect them, the hospital did not send them to the courtyard, but instead found an open area, transferred the materials to several private cars and transferred them back to the hospital.
何建文则用“美国大片”来形容当时的见闻。
He Jianwen used "American blockbuster" to describe what he saw and heard at the time.
他生于西安，但多年走南闯北，对包括武汉在内的湖北许多地方都很熟悉。
He was born in Xi'an, but for many years he traveled north and south and was familiar with many places in Hubei, including Wuhan.
而此时的湖北，却是他前所未见的：途经的城市一片安静，在能看到人的地方，许多人都穿着防护服。
Hubei, on the other hand, was a city he had never seen before: the city was quiet, and where people could see, many wore protective clothing.
“以前进湖北的服务区，吃的也丰盛，人也热情，感觉都挺好的。
"To advance Hubei's service areas, eating is also abundant, people are also warm, feeling quite good.
现在你觉得进了一个空城。
Now you feel like you're in an empty city.
”他说，这让他们想起从前看过的电影《我是传奇》。
He said it reminded them of the movie I Am Legend, which they had seen before.
那部电影中，整座城的人都感染上一种病毒，剩下主人公一个人在城里生活。
In that movie, the whole city was infected with a virus, leaving the hero to live alone in the city.
张志强，就是那个戴防毒面具的司机，正月初一下午3点到达武汉。
Zhang Zhiqiang, the driver wearing a gas mask, arrived in Wuhan at 3 p.m. on the first day of the first month.
下高速路口时，交警查看了一下货物清单，看到是医疗物资时，马上放行通过。
At the next high-speed intersection, the traffic police checked the cargo list, see the medical supplies, immediately cleared through.
他不敢耽搁，很快赶到东湖高新区，这是事先说定的交接地址。
He did not dare delay, quickly arrived at the East Lake Hi-tech District, this is a pre-agreed handover address.
不料，那里的仓库已经堆满。
Unexpectedly, the warehouse there was already full.
张志强又连忙找了另外两家仓库，最后在20公里外的地方才把这批消毒液交付给对方。
Zhang Zhiqiang quickly found two other warehouses, and finally 20 kilometers away before the delivery of the disinfectant to the other side.
他清楚记得，对方特意在电话里交代说，你从北方过来，你们那里没有事，但我们这有点儿危险，我们就用电话联系。
He remembered clearly that he had been told by telephone that you were coming from the north, that there was nothing wrong with you, but that we were in a bit of danger, and we contacted each other by telephone.
下车卸货的时候，他和对方也是一直保持着四五米的距离。
When he got off to unload the goods, he and his opponent were still four or five meters apart.
张志强扑向武汉时，是武汉“封城”的第三天。
When Zhang Zhiqiang pounced on Wuhan, it was the third day of Wuhan "closed city."
截至当天晚上十点，包括湖北在内，全国已有30个省份启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级响应。
By 10 p. m., including Hubei, 30 provinces had launched a major public health emergency first-level response.
身处疫情中心，武汉市多家医院纷纷宣告防护物资紧缺，这座城市正在焦急地等待着更多援助。
At the epicentre of the outbreak, hospitals in Wuhan have declared a shortage of protective materials, and the city is anxiously awaiting more aid.
连续行驶13个小时之后，綦光涛终于赶到目的地——武汉同济医院。
After driving for 13 hours, Qiguang Tao finally arrived at the destination - Wuhan Tongji Hospital.
作为武汉最好的医院之一，从疫情爆发时起，同济医院就承受着巨大的救治压力和物资压力，防护服和N95口罩总是急缺。
As one of the best hospitals in Wuhan, Tongji Hospital has been under tremendous pressure and material pressure since the outbreak of the epidemic.
接到綦光涛的电话时，医院方面的对接人喜出望外，没想到朝思暮想的防护服这么快就送到了。
Receiving Qiguang Tao telephone, hospital side of the docking person was overjoyed, did not expect that the protective clothing so quickly delivered.
不过，由于医院实在抽不出人手，原本在高速路口交接的计划，临时改成直接送往医院。
However, as the hospital is unable to draw staff, originally in the high-speed junction of the transition plan, temporary to the hospital.
按照出发前捐赠方的叮嘱，綦光涛和同伴换上新的防护服，按着导航开到了同济医院。
According to the instructions of the donor before departure, Qiguang Tao and his companions change into new protective clothing, followed the navigation to Tongji Hospital.
拐进医院停车场时，“一进门就傻眼了，心里咯噔一下”。
Turn into the hospital parking lot, "a door on the stupid eye, heart clatter."
他看到，所有医护人员和运送物资的人员，全部身穿防护服，戴着护目镜、口罩和鞋套，从上到下裹得严严实实。
He observed that all medical personnel and personnel transporting supplies, all in protective clothing and wearing goggles, masks and shoes, were wrapped up from top to bottom.
“那个场景太震撼了，心里马上就紧张起来了。
"It was such a shock that I got really nervous.
”直到进入负责物资装卸的器材科，看到那里的医生都只戴口罩时，他才松了一口气。
He breathed a sigh of relief when he entered the equipment section responsible for handling supplies and saw that the doctors there were only wearing masks.
在武汉，同济医院、协和医院、中南医院和省人民医院一直被认为是最好的四家医院。
In Wuhan, Tongji Hospital, Concorde Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital and Provincial People's Hospital have been considered the best four hospitals.
疫情中的协和医院，也一直牵动着各方。
The Concorde Hospital in the midst of the epidemic is also a constant concern.
大年初六，一批来自黑龙江、内蒙古和海南的医疗援助物资在中通江西南昌转运中心集结。
On the sixth day of the year, a batch of medical aid from Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia and Hainan gathered at the Southwest Nanchang Transfer Center.
下午5点，待命4天的余连华，驱车将这批物资送到了武汉协和医院。
At 5: 00 p.m., waiting for 4 days Yu Lianhua, drove the goods to Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
中通快递司机余连华出发时，公司给他准备了N95口罩和一次性手套，反复叮嘱他保护好自己。
When the express delivery driver Yu Lianhua left, the company prepared N95 masks and disposable gloves for him, repeatedly told him to protect themselves.
在协和，余连华印象最深的，就是“急”。
In the Concorde, Yu Lianhua most impressed, is "urgent."
“卸货的时候，医院来了很多人，他们都特别着急。
"There were a lot of people at the hospital unloading the cargo and they were all in a great hurry.
有的货卸下来，当场就被拿去用了。
Some of the goods were unloaded and taken to use on the spot.
我那时感觉，他们应该是很缺少这些物资、很急用这些东西的。
I felt then that they should be in great need of these things and in need of them.
”余连华对“商业人物”说。
"Yu Lianhua said to" business people.
隔离张志强在返程时，遇到点麻烦。
Isolating Zhang Zhiqiang on his way back, he ran into a bit of trouble.
武汉实际上已经彻底封城。
Wuhan has been effectively sealed off.
民警告诉他，他要通过的汉口区域当天要全部封闭。
Police told him that he would pass through the Hankou region on the same day to be completely closed.
从晚上九点多起，他就开始找能通往高速的路，找了几个小时，路口要么用大铁牌封死，要么就是拿土堆全部堵上。
From more than nine in the evening, he began to find his way to the highway. For hours, the intersection was either blocked with either a large iron plate or a pile of earth.
那时，对出城人员的检查已经极其严格。
At that time, the inspection of people leaving the city was extremely strict.
市区各个路口都有交警和医护人员，每辆通过的车都会被检查，体温异常者会马上被救护车拉走。
Traffic police and paramedics are stationed at every intersection in the city. Every passing car is checked and any abnormal body temperature is immediately removed by ambulance.
通过了四道关卡后，张志强才在次日凌晨3点左右上了高速。
Only after passing four levels did Zhang Zhiqiang reach the high speed at about 3 am the next day.
他告诉“商业人物”，回到河北沧州老家后，他把这趟去武汉穿过的所有衣服都烧掉了，然后就把自己隔离在家。
When he returned to his hometown in Cangzhou, Hebei, he told the businessman that he had burned all the clothes he had worn to Wuhan and isolated himself at home.
虽然身体没感到有不适，但他听新闻里说，病毒有14天潜伏期，所以也不敢轻视。
Although he did not feel unwell, he heard in the news that the virus had a incubation period of 14 days, so he did not dare to despise it.
“我老家是平房，自己住一套房子，我妈住一套。
"My hometown is a bungalow. I live in a house of my own. My mother lives in one.
吃饭什么的就自己做着吃，这样隔离也比较方便。
Eat what you like and eat yourself, so the isolation is also more convenient.
”大年初一出发的肖建波，第二天就返回了重庆。
Xiao Jianbo, who left on New Year's Day, returned to Chongqing the next day.
重庆市巴南区政府安排他们隔离在了下辖的一个农家乐度假村里，有专人送饭、送换洗衣服。
Chongqing's southern district government arranged for them to be quarantined at a farm family resort under its jurisdiction, where they were given food and clothes.
他们听说，巴南区的区长下了命令，去武汉送菜的司机要照顾好。
They heard that the sub-prefect of the southern part of the country had given the order to take care of the driver who was going to Wuhan.
申通快递司机肖建波这位言语朴素的重庆司机，一再说自己就是完成了一项很普通的运输任务，其实也帮不上什么大忙，就是给武汉人民做一点贡献。
Shen Tong express delivery driver Xiao Jianbo, a simple-spoken Chongqing driver, repeated that he is the completion of a very common transport task, in fact, can not help any great help, is to Wuhan people to do a little contribution.
他说，自出发后，公司还有另外六名同事随时待命准备出发。
Since departure, he said, the company has six other colleagues on standby for departure.
大年初二下午从长沙出发的谢超锋夫妇，在黄石交接完全部物资后，已经是晚上近11点。
New Year's Day afternoon from Changsha Xie Chaofeng couple, in Yellowstone handover complete supplies, it is nearly 11 pm.
他们当晚就开始踏上返程。
That night they began their return journey.
“医院那边也很实在，说现在留你们住一晚，你们也不会同意。
"The hospital is very solid, and you won't agree to it if you stay one night.
”谢超锋笑道。
"Xie Xiangfeng smiled.
他们当时以为，回去之后可能要隔离个两三天，但没想到需要半个月之久。
They thought that they might be isolated for two or three days upon their return, but did not expect half a month.
目前，他们在家自我隔离，两个人都盼着隔离早日结束，回家好好看一看8个月大的孩子。
At present, they are isolated at home, and both are looking forward to the end of isolation and a good look at their 8-month-old child.
何建文和朱坤返程时，两人说起隔离的事，何建文说，隔离是对咱们自己好，也对同事、朋友、家人都好。
When He Jianwen and Zhu Kun returned home, they talked about the separation, He Jianwen said that isolation is good for ourselves, but also for our colleagues, friends and family.
下高速后，他们被交警指引到一个指定停车场，然后登上一辆120急救车，直接被送到隔离区。
At high speed, they were directed by the traffic police to a designated parking area, then boarded a 120-first-aid vehicle and taken directly to the area of separation.
在120车上，两位战友自拍了一张合影。
In the 120 car, two comrades took a photo of themselves.
何建文最惦念的，是村里80多岁的老母亲。
He Jianwen most of all is the village over 80 years old mother.
在隔离期间，他给母亲写了一封信，信中说，“您要好好吃饭，下周我回来了，就给您做饭吃。
During the quarantine period, he wrote a letter to his mother, saying, "Eat well, and when I come back next week, I will cook for you.
”綦光涛在返回青岛的路上感到了疲惫，“毕竟是前一天晚上发的车，路上没怎么休息。
Qiguang Tao felt tired on his way back to Qingdao. "After all, it was the previous night's bus and there was little rest on the road.
”大年初四返回之后，他也自行隔离到了现在。
When he returned on Thursday of the year, he had isolated himself into the present.
他开玩笑地说，原来干活的时候老想休息，现在真闲下来了，反而觉得又这么不舒服。
He said in jest that he had always wanted to rest while he was at work, and now he was really idle and he felt so uncomfortable.
他说，如果下次有需要，而且自己的身体也允许，仍然会再去武汉。
He said he would go back to Wuhan next time he needed it and his body would allow.
2月6日，经过十个昼夜的奋战后，武汉雷神山医院开始验收并准备移交使用。
February 6, after 10 days and nights of fighting, Wuhan Raytheon Hill Hospital began to accept and ready to hand over for use.
而截至到9日，全国确诊感染病例已超过三万七千人。
By the end of September, more than 37,000 cases had been confirmed nationwide.
疫情形势仍然严峻。
The situation remains critical.
1月30日出发的余连华，将是受访司机里最后一个解除隔离的。
Yu Lianhua, who departed on January 30, will be the last of the drivers to be released.
十几年前，余连华和家人去过武汉，登过黄鹤楼，走过许多景点。
More than a decade ago, Yu Lianhua and his family have been to Wuhan, climb Yellow Crane Tower, walk through many scenic spots.
他说，将来他还会再去武汉，也许会带上女儿，告诉她，这是爸爸从前来送过救援物资的地方。
He said that in the future he will go to Wuhan, perhaps with his daughter, to tell her that this is the place my father came from to send relief supplies.
无名之辈2月4日，张志强解除了隔离，又开始跑车了。
The Anonymous On February 4, Zhang Zhiqiang removed his isolation and started his sports car again.
“我一会就要去装货，从天津市宝坻区上货，然后去北京送一批医疗物资，要送到五个医院，今天（2月5日）就要送到。
"I'm going to load the goods in a few minutes, get them from Po Chao district of Tianjin, and then send a consignment of medical supplies to Beijing to be delivered to five hospitals today (February 5)
”北京疫情没有武汉那么严重，但形势同样严峻；北京的距离也没有武汉那么远，但对张志强来说同样需要亡命奔走。
The Beijing epidemic is not as severe as Wuhan, but the situation is no more serious; Beijing is not as far away as Wuhan, but Zhang Zhiqiang also needs to run for his life.
他和他那些开货车运送救急物资的同行，都是这个社会中的无名之辈，是小人物。
He and his fellow men in wagons carrying emergency supplies were men of little account in society.
只是他们在出发的那一刻，成为了亡命徒。
It was only at the moment of departure that they became outlaws.
这些无名之辈知道自己在与时间赛跑，知道自己在与病毒争命。
These unnamed people know that they are in a race against time, that they are fighting for the virus.
他们从来没觉得自己是“英雄”，英雄是一线的那些医护人员。
They never felt like "heroes," and heroes were the first line of medical personnel.
他们只是在做自己分内的事情——开车、送货。
They're just doing their job -- driving, delivering goods.
张志强说：“这也是应该的，也是为了自己的生活。
Zhang said: "This is also right, but also for their own lives.
”“世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
"" There are no heroes but mortals who come out of the sky.
”一个特殊的时间节点，一种特别的情绪与使命，使他们意识到了自己的重任。
A particular time node, a particular mood and mission, makes them aware of their responsibilities.
他们在寒夜里负重前行。
They shouldered their loads in the cold night.
他们成为了我们最想成为的那种人。
They became the kind of people we wanted to be.
也许他们无法改变这个世界，但一定会有什么会发生变化，至少——“今年这个春节太不一样了。
They may not be able to change the world, but something will change, at least this Spring Festival is so different this year.
”余连华说。
"said Yu.
（头图人物为日日顺物流司机綦光涛）*图片由受访者提供推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
Photo by Qiguangtao, a daily logistics operator. All original articles by "business people" must be authorized to reproduce.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无名之辈。
No one.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "无名之辈";。
var msg _ title = & quot; anonymous & quot;;
var msg_desc = "世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; No hero ever came down from the sky, only mortals who stood up.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '疫情神药，何时见效？',。
When did AT & apos; P & P work? & # 160; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '草莓红了，疫情来了',。
strawberry red and AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节',。
AT & P's Atypical Spring Festival in the shadow of pneumonia.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
