武汉肺炎一线医生口述：大爆发期或将到来。
Wuhan pneumonia first-line doctor oral: the outbreak of the period or will come.
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
口述 | 许平记者 | 王珊从2019年12月31日到现在，我所在医院的病人越来越多了，以发热门诊为例，目前每天病人的体量已经是医院平常病人数的10多倍，我们医院还在距离市中心比较偏的医院。
From 31 December 2019 to the present, Wang Shan has had an increasing number of patients at my hospital. Take the example of the fever clinic, which now has more than 10 times the usual number of hospital patients per day.
冬季本身就是流感高发季，容易出现发热和呼吸道感染等问题。
Winter itself is the high incidence of influenza season, prone to fever and respiratory infections and other problems.
这群病人里有流感病人、普通感冒患者。
This group of patients have flu patients, common cold patients.
当然，也有一部分是新型冠状病毒感染者。
Of course, there is also a new type of coronary virus infection.
不过，很多患者现在都还没被检验。
However, many patients have not yet been tested.
以往流感、感冒病人可能会去呼吸科或者儿科看病，现在都聚集到了发热门诊，所以人流量很大。
People with flu and colds, who might have gone to the respiratory department or pediatric clinic, now congregate in the fever clinic, so there is a lot of traffic.
汉口火车站外如今，各个医院的床位已经爆满了，救治能力到了极限。
Hankou railway station now, every hospital bed has been full, the ability to treat to the limit.
作为医院，我们的任务是诊断和收治疑似病人，确诊则是由武汉疾控部门负责。
As a hospital, our task is to diagnose and treat suspected patients, confirmed by the Wuhan CDC department.
我们都知道新型冠状病毒的检测已经有试剂盒。
We all know that the new coronavirus has been tested with a kit.
这两天武汉卫生系统将检测的权限下放给了三甲医院，即试剂盒发到医院。
Wuhan health system in the past two days to test the authority delegated to the Sanjia hospital, that is, kits to the hospital.
有些医院是试剂盒不够用，有些医院则没有检验的条件。
Some hospitals do not have enough test kits, while others do not have the conditions for testing.
新型冠状病毒按甲类传染病进行防控，检验需要有专门的实验室。
The new coronavirus is controlled according to the Class A infectious disease, which requires a special laboratory.
即使一些三甲医院，也没有这样的实验室，现在建也来不及。
Even some triple A hospitals, there is no such laboratory, it is too late to build.
它首先需要一个负压实验室，气流只能进不能出；实验室的洁净度、通风系统、消毒灭菌都有很高的要求。
First it needs a negative pressure laboratory, the air flow can only enter and exit; the laboratory cleanliness, ventilation system, disinfection and sterilization have very high requirements.
如果不具备条件去做检验，很可能会出现病毒泄漏的情况，实验室成了污染源，医院也就被污染了，很可怕。
If we do not have the conditions to do the tests, there is a high risk of virus leakage, the laboratory has become a source of pollution, the hospital has been contaminated, very terrible.
现在回想卫生系统应对新型冠状病毒的过程，有很多需要思考的地方。
There is much to think about now as the health system tackles the new coronavirus.
实际上，一开始，整个形势都是可控的。
In fact, at first the whole situation was manageable.
新型病毒最先在武汉出现时，是由武汉卫生系统自己监测到的。
When the new virus first appeared in Wuhan, it was monitored by Wuhan Health System itself.
2019年12月31日，武汉卫健委就通报，发现27例感染者。
On December 31, 2019, Wuhan Health Commission reported that 27 cases of infection.
那时大家还不知道这种新型肺炎是什么东西。
People did not know what the new pneumonia was at that time.
发现之后，他们对这些患者也进行了严格的隔离。
After the discovery, the patients were also placed in strict isolation.
1月9日，专家们就确认了病毒是什么，两天后，病毒的基因测序也做完了。
On January 9, experts confirmed what the virus was, and two days later the genetic sequencing of the virus was complete.
这从应对上来说是非常迅速的。
This was very rapid in terms of response.
你想武汉市有1100多万人口，出现了20多例病例，在流感严重的背景确认一种新型的肺炎，是不容易的。
You think Wuhan, with a population of more than 11 million, has more than 20 cases. It is not easy to confirm a new type of pneumonia in the context of severe influenza.
这是需要肯定的地方。
This is something to be sure of.
问题出现在后面。
The problem is later.
27例病例出现后，武汉卫生系统采取了内紧外松的政策。
After the emergence of 27 cases, Wuhan health system adopted the policy of internal tight relaxation.
“紧”是及时发现病例，并做了严格的隔离和应对。
"Tight" is the timely detection of cases, and made strict isolation and response.
“松”则是却没有大范围地公告社会，让大家对疾病提起警惕，也没有号召大家戴口罩。
"Song" is not a large-scale announcement of the community, so that everyone is alert to disease, and did not call on everyone to wear masks.
这次，系统内部没有意识到控制这样性质的传染性疾病，如果没有社会面的支持，是很难的。
This time, the system is not aware of the control of infectious diseases of this nature, without social support, is very difficult.
社会支持包括什么？首先要号召公众停止人员的大规模流动，不要有大规模的聚会，戴口罩、洗手这些也需要提醒。
What does social support consist of? First, call on the public to stop the mass flow of people. Do not have large-scale gatherings, wearing masks, washing your hands, etc.
应对新型冠状病毒不是卫生系统一方力量能做成的。
Tackling this new coronavirus is not something that one side of the health system can do.
你想一下，老百姓没有意识到事情重要性和严重程度，大家就会放松警惕，也才会出现后面四万人吃家宴的事情。
If you think about it, if people don't realize how important and serious things are, they will let down their guard and there will be a family dinner for the next 40,000 people.
这种意识缺乏的状态会一直延续到发病期，即人是生病了，但对方觉得不严重，也不会来医院。
This lack of awareness can last until the onset of illness, when a person is ill but the other person does not feel serious and does not come to the hospital.
正值中国南方农历小年，武汉百步亭社区四万人吃家宴（中新社供图）这也跟疾病的特点有关系。
At the beginning of the Southern Chinese Lunar New Year, 40, 000 people in the Baibuting community in Wuhan had a family dinner.
新型冠状病毒攻击的靶点是血管紧张素转化酶（ACE）。
The target of the new coronavirus attack is angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE).
这个东西丰富地存在于肺部。
This thing is abundant in the lungs.
因此，被感染者最初表现出来的症状不是非常严重。
As a result, the initial symptoms of the infected person are not very severe.
我们知道流感患者会出现发烧、流涕、干咳、咳痰。
We know flu sufferers can develop fever, runny nose, dry cough, cough and sputum.
新型冠状病毒的感染者最初可能只是没有力气而已，干咳或者低烧，甚至有的人体温就比正常高一点点，测温都测不出来的。
The new coronavirus infection may initially just have no strength, dry cough or low fever, and some people's body temperature is a little higher than normal, temperature can not be measured.
也有些人还处在潜伏期，没有任何表现。
There are also people who are still in latency and who do not show any signs.
新型冠状病毒在某些方面跟SARS有些相似，但表现出来的症状看起来又比SARS轻，所以就有了忽视。
The new coronavirus is in some ways similar to SARS, but it appears to have a lighter symptom than SARS, so it has been ignored.
但，不严重并不代表没有传染性。
However, not serious does not mean that it is not infectious.
现在看来，这可能是疫情扩大的关键点。
It now appears that this could be a key point in the spread of the epidemic.
新型冠状病毒与SARS不同的部分，恰恰是它比较快传播的因素。
The new coronavirus differs from SARS in that it is a fast-spreading factor.
后续的病人突然增多，跟发病状况不严重的患者或者病毒潜伏的患者是有关系的。
A sudden increase in the number of follow-up patients is associated with patients with less serious illness or latent virus.
我们第一波发现的病人因为市场感染，但到了第二波，病人就跟市场没有关系了。
Our first patient was infected by the market, but by the second wave, the patient had nothing to do with the market.
所以，如果一开始，患者症状很重，病毒变异得也很快，在应对上，大家可能就是另一种态度。
So if, at first, the symptoms are severe and the virus mutates quickly, you might be dealing with it in a different way.
回头想来，这个病毒比非典还难琢磨，它飘忽不定，在有的病人身上表现很轻的症状，而如果病人不住院，继续传播，他传播的人可能又是很重的病症。
In retrospect, the virus is more elusive than SARS. It is erratic, showing mild symptoms in some patients, while if the patient is not hospitalized and continues to spread, the person he spreads may be a severe disease.
某些程度上来说，这次的大意应对跟武汉没有吃过SARS的亏也有关系。
To some extent, this time the main idea of the response and Wuhan did not eat SARS deficit is also related.
2003年非典，武汉的病例很少，几乎没有什么影响。
In 2003, SARS, Wuhan, few cases, little impact.
你看北京和香港，当年非典这么严重，这次就非常重视。
Look at Beijing and Hong Kong. SARS was so serious that we took it very seriously this time.
我刚开始跟身边的医生朋友沟通时，他们对这个事情也不是特别放在心上。
When I first started talking to my doctors and friends around me, they didn't pay special attention to this either.
我所在医院的呼吸科门诊，从12月31日开始，防护等级其实是做的比较高的。
My hospital's respiratory clinic, from December 31 onwards, the level of protection is actually done relatively high.
但我们医院其他科室，客观讲，那时防护力量并不到位。
But other departments of our hospital, objectively speaking, were not in place at that time.
有些病人因为其他症状进来，病情也在潜伏期，完全看不来他有问题，在接触的过程中，就出现了感染医护人员的情况。
Some patients come in because of other symptoms and their condition is latent, and their problems cannot be seen at all. In the course of the contacts, there are cases of infection of medical personnel.
在此之后，我们医院也做了非常严格的防护。
After that, our hospital also made very strict protection.
就连后勤部门，都戴口罩，每天量体温，做防护。
Even the logistic department, are wearing masks, daily temperature measurement, do protection.
我是武汉人，却对非典有着深刻的印记。
I am from Wuhan, but I have a deep impression on SARS.
当时我在北京读书，我们学校封了三个月。
I was studying in Beijing when my school was closed for three months.
学校里也是禁止流动的。
Mobility is also prohibited in schools.
我们每个人发了一个牌，去了这个食堂吃饭，就不能去另外一个食堂，寝室之间也不能串门，一切目的都是为了防止出现感染。
We each played a card, went to this canteen to eat, can not go to another canteen, bedroom between the door, all in order to prevent infection.
那时，我看了很多网络上各种关于非典的信息，觉得很可怕。
At that time, I saw a lot of information about SARS on the network, it felt terrible.
这次病毒到来，我从一开始就很焦虑，我劝说我的家人，他们依然不是很在意。
When the virus arrived, I was worried from the start, and I talked to my family that they still didn't care.
前两天，国家卫健委专家组的专家不是被感染了吗？他当时防护很好但还是倒下了。
The other day, wasn't the expert on the National Fitness and Health Commission infected? He was well protected but collapsed.
这让我的家人，包括社会上的人群开始重视起来了，觉得这是个事情了，要重视了。
This made my family, including the social groups began to attach importance to it, feel that this is a matter of importance.
医务人员身着防护服接诊（中新社供图）2020年1月10日对武汉或者是各家医院来说都是一个节点。
Medical staff dressed in protective clothing (CNS supply map) January 10, 2020, Wuhan or the hospitals are a node.
在此之前，跟华南市场有接触且发病的病患都已经做了隔离应对措施。
Prior to this, contact with the South China market and the onset of the patients have done isolation measures.
没有想到的是，潜在的传染者开始不断发病，在1月20号，武汉通报两日之内新增100多个病例，这其实是潜在的传染者传染了新的人。
Unexpectedly, potential infectious agents began to develop, and on January 20th, Wuhan announced more than 100 new cases within two days of notification, which is in fact a potential infectious agent infecting new people.
在我们看来，这个时间段代表着第二波爆发期的到来。
In our view, this period represents the arrival of a second wave of eruptions.
这个时候，我们前面说检验手段已经出来了。
At this point, we have said that the means of verification has come out.
但有些医院即使有试剂，也架不住患者那么多，只能对于严重的患者优先进行确诊检测，病情轻的先不检测，让他们回家。
But some hospitals, even if reagents, can not set up so many patients, can only give priority to serious patients for diagnostic testing, light condition first do not test, let them go home.
这跟SARS后面的应对是不同的。
This is different from what happened after SARS.
那时，即使没有检测手段，医生可以根据病人的流行病史和病症进行判断，对于疑似病例进行隔离。
At that time, even in the absence of a means of detection, the physician could make a judgement based on the patient's epidemiological history and condition, isolating suspected cases.
这次没有做到，很多疑似症状的患者回了家。
This time around, many patients with suspected symptoms returned home.
有的医院这段时间收到了病人的投诉。
Some hospitals have received complaints from patients during this period.
说医院不给他看病。
Said the hospital wouldn't see him.
但事实上，这位患者先去了一个医院，他看到人多，就换到另外一个医院，结果排队也很长，再换医院。
But in fact, the patient first went to a hospital, he saw a large number of people, and then moved to another hospital, resulting in a long queue, and then change hospital.
现在医院的发热门诊、呼吸科门诊，基本都要排队四五个小时。
At present, the hospital's fever clinic, respiratory clinic, basic queuing up for four or five hours.
这样的患者如果后面确诊为新型肺炎，很有可能就会传染更多的人。
If the patient is later diagnosed with a new form of pneumonia, it is likely to infect more people.
他来回医院乘坐公共交通工具的话，也是很大的一个风险。
His trips back and forth to the hospital by public transport were also a great risk.
不得不说，我们对疾病的认识是不足的。
It has to be said that our knowledge of disease is inadequate.
从昨天起，卫生部门决定对发热患者进行定点医院集中诊治，这是好的方法。
Since yesterday, the health department has decided to treat febrile patients centrally, which is a good method.
就像之前北京的小汤山，可以防止患者的流动，我希望能看到好的效果。
Like Beijing's Xiaotangshan before it, it can prevent the flow of patients, and I hope to see good results.
其实，如果看规律，2003年非典和现在的出现的新型冠状病毒，都是出现在大的交通节点城市，人口密度大。
In fact, if you look at the law, SARS in 2003 and now the emergence of a new coronavirus, are in large traffic node cities, high population density.
武汉这次疫情最厉害的两个区，也是人口密度都极高，每平方公里好几万人。
Wuhan, the worst of the two districts, is also extremely high population density, tens of thousands of people per square kilometer.
病毒的传播是跟人口密度有很大关系的。
The spread of the virus is strongly related to population density.
我们认为大爆发期还没有到。
We don't think the outbreak has come yet.
最危险的时候是春节之后，大家返回去上班，人员往一线城市汇聚，到了人口更密集的地区。
The most dangerous time is after the Spring Festival, everyone returned to work, people converged to the first-tier cities, to the more densely populated areas.
这几天大家都看到专家的那句呼吁，“能不到武汉去就不去，武汉人能不出来就不出来”。
These days we all see the expert's appeal, "can not go to Wuhan, Wuhan can not come out of the can not come out."
其实刚开始我们就听到传言说要封锁整个武汉，没想到今天真封了。
In fact, at the beginning we heard rumors that the whole Wuhan blockade, did not expect today is really sealed.
我们自己判断，新型冠状病毒的传播情况可能要一直延续到5月，判断源于两个事实：一方面是防控手段不断跟上，另一方面新型冠状病毒怕热，等天气热起来了，也能对病毒起到作用。
In our own judgment, the spread of the new coronavirus is likely to last until May. This is due to two facts: on the one hand, the new coronavirus is afraid of heat; on the other hand, when the weather gets hot, it will also have an effect on the virus.
我们现在心里做了要到五一的准备。
We are now making preparations in our hearts for May Day.
这个时候，我想说，作为武汉人，我们的家乡在这里，事业在这里，我们想保护这个城市。
At this time, I would like to say that as Wuhan people, our hometown is here, the cause here, we want to protect the city.
（许平为化名）请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the line of the epidemic # 1 Ongoing All-China Triple Life Weekly media is now open to all readers.
所有身在疫情一线、了解疫情的读者或媒体同行们，我们想要征集你们身边已经发生的、正在发生的那些尚未被媒体采集到的疫情故事。
All our readers or media colleagues who are on the frontlines of the epidemic want to gather information about what has happened around you, what is happening, what has not yet been captured by the media.
此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words is good), photos (original shooting), audio and video (original recording) are welcome.
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submission mailbox in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly (mainly audio input, within 5 minutes) Zhongdu @ lifeek.com.cn Look forward to your contribution!
点击下图，一键下单「年里美味」买它！▼ 点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买更多好书。
Why don't we go to the weekly bookstore and buy more good books Why don't you Why don't we go over to our weekly bookstore
。
.
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉肺炎一线医生口述：大爆发期或将到来。
Wuhan pneumonia first-line doctor oral: the outbreak of the period or will come.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉肺炎一线医生口述：大爆发期或将到来";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "作为武汉人，我们的家乡在这里，事业在这里，我们想保护这个城市。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; As a Wuhan, our hometown is here, our business is here, and we want to protect the city.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
