这张病床来得太不容易。
This bed is not easy to come by.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月9日，武汉市洪山体育馆“方舱医院”西区，在这里，一位医护人员负责近20名病患。
February 9, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium "Fang cabin hospital" West District, where a medical staff in charge of nearly 20 patients.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄一组肺部CT扫描影像出现在医生的电脑屏幕上，杨艳只看了一眼，就几乎确定：“我感染了。
"I'm infected," Yang Yan said, glancing at a set of CT scans of the lungs of a trainee reporter from the Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing Net who appeared on the doctor's computer screen
”这个42岁的女人曾在武汉一家医院的B超室工作多年，有影像学知识基础。
The 42-year-old woman, who worked for years in the ultraroom of a Wuhan hospital, has a knowledge base in imaging science.
“正常的（器官）片子是黑乎乎的，我那个一片白色。
"The normal picture is black, my one is white.
”她回忆。
'she recalled.
此时她已经发烧8天，胸痛、呕吐，咳嗽越来越剧烈，也越来越容易感到疲惫。
By this time she had a fever for eight days, chest pain, vomiting, more and more severe coughing, and growing tired.
2月5日早上，在武汉市中心医院后湖院区，杨艳接受了新冠肺炎核酸检测。
February 5 morning, in Wuhan city central hospital Houhu courtyard area, Yang Yan received the new crown pneumonia nucleic acid test.
她希望能住院治疗，医生告诉她，现在没有床位，要与社区联络。
She wanted to be hospitalized, and the doctor told her that there were no beds and that she needed to contact the community.
2月9日上午，杨艳在江夏区第一人民医院的病床上与中青报·中青网记者通话时说：“这张病床来得太不容易。
"It's not an easy bed," Yang Yan told the China Youth Daily on the morning of February 9 from her bed at the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia.
”杨艳身边的医护人员大多来自江苏援助武汉的医疗队。
Yang Yan's doctors and nurses come mostly from Jiangsu province to assist Wuhan medical teams.
据官方数据，截至2月8日，已经有超过1.2万名医务人员从全国各地驰援武汉。
As of February 8, more than 12,000 medical personnel had rushed to Wuhan from across the country, according to official figures.
中央赴湖北指导组则一再指出，落实“四类人员”分类集中管理措施，要做到应收尽收、不漏一人。
Hubei guidance group of the central government has repeatedly pointed out that the implementation of "four categories of personnel" centralized management measures to achieve the receivable, do not leak one person.
一场多方联手的行动开始了2月9日上午，陈石接通视频电话，看到了母亲马芸。
A multi-party operation began on the morning of February 9, Chen Shi connected the video telephone, saw the mother Ma Yun.
母亲所在的四人间病房位于武汉市金银潭医院。
Her mother's four-room ward is located in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
几个小时前，马芸和丈夫陈明刚刚从东西湖方舱医院转到这里。
A few hours ago, Ma Yun and her husband Chen Ming had just been transferred here from the East-West Lake cabin hospital.
持续吸氧后，她的血氧饱和度上升了，说话也清晰了很多。
As she continued to breathe oxygen, her blood oxygen saturation increased and her speech became clearer.
“精神看着还可以。
"The spirit looks good.
”陈石描述，“我妈说医院很好。
"My mother said the hospital was very good.
”2月7日，陈明和马芸夫妇接到社区打来的电话，通知他们晚上7点到社区集合。
On February 7, Chen Ming and the Ma Yun received a phone call from the community telling them to gather at 7 p.m.
7点30分，该社区共有10人登上大巴，开往东西湖“武汉客厅”。
At 7: 30, the community of 10 people boarded the bus to the East-West Lake "Wuhan living room."
武汉客厅位于汉口金银潭，原是文化和商业建筑集群，如今是武汉最大的方舱医院。
Wuhan living room located in Hankou gold and silver pool, was originally a cultural and commercial construction cluster, is now Wuhan's largest square cabin hospital.
7日下午5点，它正式启用，来自北京中日友好医院、陕西紧急救援队、湖北中南医院和同济大学附属东方医院的共计15位医生、30位护士入驻，集中收治轻症患者。
At 5: 00 pm on the 7th, it officially opened, with a total of 15 doctors and 30 nurses from the China-Japan Friendship Hospital in Beijing, the Shaanxi Emergency Rescue Team, the Zhongnan Hospital in Hubei and the Oriental Hospital affiliated with Tongji University.
其中，A区专门收治核酸检测呈阳性的患者，一旦病情转重，患者会被转送到距离较近的金银潭医院。
Area A, which caters for nucleic acid-positive patients, is transferred to the nearest gold-and-silver pool hospital in the event of a serious illness.
由于人数较多，陈明马芸夫妇等到8日凌晨2点才入院。
Due to the large number of people, Chen Ming Ma Yun waited until 2 a.m. on the 8th until admission.
马芸对儿子描述，当晚方舱医院有几百个患者入住，牛奶、泡面、拖鞋等生活物资都是集中堆放，按需自取。
Ma Yun told his son that night, the cabin hospital has hundreds of patients check in, milk, bubble noodles, slippers and other living materials are stacked centrally, according to the needs of their own.
8日早上，一位医生来查房，发现陈明和马芸的状况不好。
On the morning of the 8th, a doctor came to check the room and found Chen Ming and Ma Yun in poor condition.
他们均持续发烧，意识昏沉，一直在咳嗽，自主呼吸困难。
They had persistent fever, dizziness, persistent cough and difficulty breathing on their own.
医生当时表示，两人需要吸氧，得转院。
Doctors said they needed oxygen and needed to be transferred to hospital.
陈石记得，当天通电话时，父母的表达已经有点模糊。
Chen Shi remembers that when talking on the telephone that day, the expression of parents has been a bit fuzzy.
到了9日凌晨2点，一辆救护车将他们送到了金银潭医院。
At 2 a.m. on the 9th, an ambulance took them to the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
“我现在放心点了。
"I am more at ease now.
”陈石说，在早上的视频通话中，母亲告诉他，护士已经“抽了十几管血，还要打针”。
In a morning video call, Chen Shi said his mother told him the nurse had "smoked a dozen tubes of blood and had to be injected."
在江夏区第一人民医院，护士每天会定时为杨艳测量体温，她能吸到氧气，也输了液。
At the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District, nurses regularly take Yang Yan's temperature every day. She can get oxygen and lose fluid.
到了吃饭时间，医护人员会把饭菜送到病床边。
When it's time for dinner, the paramedics take the food to the bed.
她估算了一下，医生一次值班时间不少于4小时，护士还要长得多。
She estimated that the doctor would be on duty for no less than four hours at a time and that the nurse would be much longer.
她用“尽职尽责”形容这群她从未见过面容的人。
She described the group of people she had never seen before as "dutiful."
最让她高兴的是，9日早上，她已经不再发烧了。
To her delight, she had lost her fever on the morning of the 9th.
中午，她吃了医院提供的酸菜鱼、炒粉条和炒菜苔。
At noon, she ate pickled fish, fried noodles and fried moss from the hospital.
此前，根据武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部要求，全市各城区都在进行“四类人员”的集中收治和隔离工作。
Previously, according to Wuhan City's new crown pneumonia control command requirements, the city's urban areas are "four categories of people" concentrated treatment and isolation.
这四类人员是：确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
The four categories are: confirmed patients, suspected patients, patients unable to exclude the possibility of infection febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
2月5日，指挥部下达命令，确保疑似和确诊病例“应收尽收、应治尽治”，确保一个都不放过。
On February 5, the command issued an order to ensure that suspected and confirmed cases were "collected and treated as soon as possible," ensuring that no one was left untouched.
违反此条者，按照《传染病防治法》相关规定，严格追究责任。
Violations of this article are subject to strict liability in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Communicable Diseases Act.
一场政府、社区、媒体、志愿者团队和公民个体联手展开的行动开始了。
A joint effort by the government, the community, the media, volunteer groups, and individual citizens began.
“能填的表我都填了”杨艳至今也想不明白，自己为什么会感染。
"I can fill out all the forms" Yang Yan still can not understand why they can be infected.
她家距离华南海鲜市场大约2公里，但这位家庭主妇从未去过，春节前连门都很少出。
Her home is about 2 kilometers from the South China seafood market, but the housewife has never been there and rarely even before the Spring Festival.
她考虑过另一种可能。
She considered another possibility.
1月中旬，作为医院麻醉科医生的杨艳的丈夫参加了一台手术。
Yang Yan's husband, a hospital anesthesiologist, underwent an operation in mid-January.
术后，他忽然接到医院通知，病人发热，参与手术的医护必须居家隔离。
After the surgery, he was suddenly informed by the hospital that the patient was febrile and that the medical staff involved had to be kept in isolation.
至今，杨艳的丈夫和女儿都没有出现疑似感染新冠肺炎的症状，但1月29日，杨艳发烧了，此后每天都烧到39摄氏度以上。
Yang Yan's husband and daughter have so far shown no symptoms of a suspected new crown pneumonia, but Yang had a fever on January 29 and has since burned more than 39 degrees Celsius.
最初，她服用普通感冒药和退烧药，体温刚刚下降又骤然升高。
Initially, she took common cold remedies and antipyretics, and her body temperature had just dropped and soared.
她觉得胸口疼痛、乏力，求助社区后，2月5日凌晨，她到中心医院后湖院区做了CT和血常规检测。
Feeling chest pain and fatigue, she sought help from the community, February 5, she went to the central hospital backlake courtyard for CT and routine blood tests.
“一开始还有侥幸心理，一看片子就伤感了。
"It was a fluke at first, but it was sad to see.
”杨艳回忆，“该有的症状我都有了，我心里给自己确诊了。
"Yang Yan recalled," I have all the symptoms to have, my heart to their own diagnosis.
”CT结果显示，她得了“病毒性肺炎”，随即就做了核酸检测。
CT results showed she had viral pneumonia and was tested for nucleic acid.
从医院出来，她走路都没力气了。
Out of the hospital, she had no strength left to walk.
症状越来越严重，6日凌晨，她又来到中心医院。
Symptoms are getting worse, she came to the central hospital in the early morning.
门诊医生告诉她，没有床位，让她和社区联系，看社区有没有办法。
The outpatient doctor told her that there were no beds and asked her to contact the community to see if there was anything the community could do.
“社区无暇顾及我们的时候，真的很无助。
"When the community is too busy for us, it's really helpless.
”杨艳回忆，在医院工作的丈夫试着求助，也被告知“等一等”。
Yang Yan recalls that her husband, who worked in a hospital, tried to ask for help and was told to "wait a minute."
她搜罗网上的信息，在媒体提供的求助平台填报个人资料，“很多电话我都打过”。
She searched the information on the Internet and filled in personal information on the help platform provided by the media. "I've made a lot of calls."
2月7日，她等来了江夏区第一人民医院的一张病床。
On 7 February, she waited for a bed at the First People's Hospital in Jiangxia District.
春节前两天，陈石还见过父母。
Chen Shi also met his parents two days before the Spring Festival.
大年初三，59岁的父亲陈明开始发烧，社区医院的检查结果是“支气管炎”，开了点药让他回家。
On the third day of the new year, 59-year-old father Chen Ming began to have a fever, the community hospital test results is "bronchitis," a little medicine to let him go home.
服药没有减轻症状，两天后，57岁的马芸也发烧了。
The medicine did not relieve the symptoms, and two days later the 57-year-old horse also had a fever.
夫妻俩感到恐惧，决定到定点医院发热门诊做检查。
Feeling frightened, the couple decided to visit the fever clinic at the designated hospital for an examination.
社区也没有车辆接送他们，两人步行两个多小时，才来到定点的天佑医院。
The community did not have a vehicle to transport them, and they walked for more than two hours before arriving at the designated Tien You Hospital.
胸部CT和血常规结果显示，他们疑似患上新冠肺炎。
Chest CT and routine blood tests showed they were suspected to have pneumonia.
回到家，陈明的症状加重了。
Back home, Chen Ming's symptoms increased.
他几乎无法起床，开始呕吐。
He could hardly get up and began to vomit.
马芸也感到厌食。
Ma Yun also felt anorexia.
两个人都在发烧。
Both men have a fever.
陈石联系了人民医院的发热门诊，让父母再去检查一次。
Chen Shi contacted the people's hospital's fever clinic and asked his parents to check it again.
两人拒绝了儿子要来接送的请求，步行一个半小时赶到医院。
The two men refused their son's request for a transfer and walked for an hour and a half to the hospital.
挂了号一看，前面排着两三百人，好几个小时等过去，才拍了胸片，做了血常规。
Hanging up the number, the front line of two or three hundred people, several hours to wait for the past, before taking a chest film, blood routines.
医生开了静脉滴注的药物，他们输液至午夜。
The doctors prescribed intravenous medication and they infusion until midnight.
大厅里四五十个座位，依然坐满了患者。
Forty or fifty seats in the hall were still filled with patients.
2月4日，他们接受了核酸检测。
On 4 February, they underwent a nucleic acid test.
这天，陈石曾联系社区，被告知“未确诊，没有排队入院的资格”。
On this day, Chen Shi had contacted the community, was told that "no diagnosis, no queuing eligibility."
第二天，检测结果传来，两人都是“阳性”。
The next day, the test results came, both of them "masculine."
此外，人民医院还出具了重症的报告。
In addition, serious cases were reported from the People's Hospital.
陈石再次联系社区，当时“态度过激，还骂了人”。
Chen Shi contacted the community again, then "attitude excessive, but also scolded people."
如今他很后悔，“是我不好，太着急了”。
Now he repents, "It's not my fault, it's too urgent."
他记得，那天跟父母联络时，两人听起来很虚弱，不想说话。
He remembers that when he contacted his parents that day, they both sounded weak and did not want to talk.
2月6日，陈石又电话催了社区好几次，没有得到结果，“不是你们一家的问题，好多人都是这样”。
On February 6, Chen Shi called the community several times, but did not get results, "not your family's problem, a lot of people are so."
他记得对方提示他，有的子女会去医院抢床。
He remembered being reminded that some of his children would go to the hospital to get a bed.
“我以前也知道这事，但当时医院的床位已经统一调配，不再对口个人了。
"I knew about that before, but the beds in the hospital had been consolidated and there were no more personal contacts.
”陈石说。
'he said.
他开始想其他办法，发求救微博，通过微信转发求助信息，“能填的表我都填了”。
He began to think of other ways to send out a micro-blog, a message of help, "I have filled out all the forms I can fill in."
2月7日，陈明马芸夫妇终于接到了入院通知。
On February 7, Chen Ming and his wife were finally notified of their admission.
在病房，每天说的最多的一个词就是“谢谢”　陈石18天没有真正见到父母了。
In the ward, the most frequently said word is "thank you" Chen Shi 18 days did not really see their parents.
“所有人跟我说尽力了的时候，我真的很想去找他们。
"I really want to go and find them when everyone tells me I tried my best.
”但每一次，他都被母亲劝阻“管好你自己就行”。
But each time he was dissuaded by his mother from "mind your own business."
在他的印象中，父亲木讷老实，母亲脾气火爆。
In his impression, his father was dull and honest, and his mother was hot-tempered.
社区的工作人员曾跟他说：“劝劝你妈吧，她把我们小丫头（工作人员）都要骂哭了。
The community workers once told him, "Advise your mother, she will scold and cry our little girl.
”然而连续发烧十几天后，这位曾经的女公交司机失去了平时的火气和活力。
But after a decade of running a fever, the former bus driver lost her usual spark and energy.
杨艳住得离华南海鲜市场比较近，听说“市场被封”时，她感到紧张，还有意识地备了点药品。
Yang Yan lived close to the South China seafood market. When she heard that the market had been closed, she felt nervous and consciously prepared some medicine.
随即她看到通报，“可防可控”“未发现人传人”，心里安定了，还嘲笑自己“想多了”。
Then she saw the notice, "preventable controllable," "no one found the person-to-person", calm, and laugh at themselves "think more.
直到武汉“封城”，“我才知道情况不对了，这个事情会很严重”，离春节还有两天时，杨艳做了两次大采购，储备的物资塞满了家里两台冰箱。
It was not until Wuhan "closed the city" that "I knew the situation was wrong, this thing will be very serious." Two days before the Spring Festival, Yang Yan made two big purchases, stocking her house with two refrigerators.
从发烧那天开始，杨艳在家中自我隔离，不和丈夫、孩子接触。
From the day the fever began, Yang Yan in the home self-isolation, do not contact with her husband, children.
饭好了，丈夫戴着口罩端给她。
Dinner was ready and her husband was wearing a mask.
她去卫生间时，全家人都要做好防护。
When she goes to the bathroom, the whole family must be well protected.
“冲马桶我都不用手摁，用卫生纸卷筒碰触。
"I don't need to flush the toilet bowl and use toilet paper to touch it.
”并不是所有的战“疫”故事都拥有可以期待的美好结局。
Not all battle "plague" stories have a happy ending to look forward to.
在武昌区，58岁的卫玲和她80岁的母亲均被确诊患上新冠肺炎。
In Wuchang District, 58-year-old Wei Ling and her 80-year-old mother were diagnosed with pneumonia.
一家人辗转求助，最终只等来一个床位。
The family tossed and turned for help and only had to wait for a bed.
大家决定，让老人先入院。
It was decided that the old should be hospitalized first.
然而就在住进医院的当天，老人去世了。
However, on the very day he was admitted to the hospital, the old man died.
床位空出来，可以给女儿住了。
The bed is free for my daughter.
这是一些并不罕见的故事：有人还没等到确诊就已经离世；有些人走了，社区的入院通知电话跟着来了；有人在阳台上“敲锣救母”，为母亲呼唤一张床位；有人全家感染，无人可以照料年幼的孩子……住院第3天，杨艳已经能用一些“特征”识别“从头遮到脚”的医生和护士。
It is not uncommon for people to die before they are diagnosed; some are gone and community hospital calls follow; others are "gongs to save mothers" on balconies, calling for a bed for mothers; whole families are infected and no one can take care of young children... On the third day in hospital, Yang Yan has identified "top-down" doctors and nurses with "characteristics.
有位护士“比别人都高”，还有一位“眉毛特别浓密”。
One nurse was "taller than the others" and another had "exceptionally bushy eyebrows."
在病房，杨艳每天说的最多的一个词就是“谢谢”。
In the ward, Yang Yan said the most one word every day is "thank you."
“都是爸爸妈妈的孩子，太不容易了。
"It's all Mom and Dad's children. It's not easy.
”杨艳停顿了一下，哽咽着说，“他们舍弃了自己的家。
"Yang Yan paused, choking," They abandoned their homes.
”她的女儿是一个还没毕业的医学生。
Her daughter was a medical student who had not yet graduated.
眼下，这位母亲总是忍不住想，“有一天，她也会上战场。
For the moment, the mother could not help but think, "One day, she will go to the battlefield.
”　　（应受访者要求，文中陈石、陈明、马芸为化名）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
At the request of the respondents, Chen Shi, Chen Ming and Ma Yun were cited as aliases in the article.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这张病床来得太不容易。
This bed is not easy to come by.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "这张病床来得太不容易";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; This bed was not easy to service.;
var msg_desc = "有人去世入院通知才来，有人在阳台上敲锣呼唤一张床位";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the balcony.
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
