武汉“摆渡人”。
Wuhan "wagging people."
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
武汉的一群车队志愿者，被当地人称作“摆渡人”。
Wuhan, a group of motorcade volunteers, known as "ferrymen."
粗略估计，这一群体已超过千人。
According to rough estimates, this group already exceeds 1,000.
这群志愿者中，最活跃的大部分是90后，最小的是1998年出生的，他们用自己的勇气和热情化解了部分人员暂时的出行难题。
Most of the volunteers were 90 years old and the youngest was born in 1998. With courage and enthusiasm, they solved some of their temporary travel problems.
然而，在病毒面前，志愿者也不能幸免，有人感染甚至离世。
However, in the face of the virus, volunteers are not immune to infection and even death.
但更多人相信，自己能坚持到最后，坚持到抗击疫情结束那一天。
But many more believe they can stay the course until the end of the fight against the epidemic.
2月9日，武汉百步亭社区，一位志愿者司机让一位自行来到发车点的轻症新冠肺炎患者上车后，等待同事告知他目的地。
On Feb. 9, a volunteer driver in the community of Bumbuting, Wuhan, asked a self-propelled New Crown Pneumonia patient to get on the bus and wait for his colleagues to tell him where he was going.
这位患者将被送到市内一处方舱医院接受隔离治疗。
The patient will be taken to an inner city cabin hospital for isolation.
中青报·中青网记者李峥苨/摄中青报·中青网记者 胡宁 见习记者 朱彩云2月3日下午，54岁的武汉志愿者何辉走了，病因是新冠肺炎。
Zhongqing News / Zhongqing News Li Zheng / Zhongqing News Zhongqing News reporter Zhu Caiyun Zhu Caiyun, 54, went away in the afternoon of February 3. The cause of his illness was New Crown Pneumonia.
从除夕到正月初五左右发病，这个40人大家庭的顶梁柱一直作为武汉志愿者车队的一员奔波在武汉街头，义务接送医护人员。
From New Year's Eve to the beginning of the fifth around the month, the 40-year-old family has been the top pillar of Wuhan volunteers as a convoy to the streets of Wuhan, volunteers to transport medical personnel.
何辉的家人回忆，他在加入志愿者车队时曾说，“有一分力就出一分力”。
He's family recalled that when he joined the volunteer corps, he said, "you have a part to play."
疫情突发，像何辉一样的车队志愿者，被当地人称作武汉“摆渡人”。
Outbreak of the outbreak, like Ho Hui team volunteers, known by the local people as Wuhan "ferryman."
粗略估计，目前武汉市这一群体的规模超过千人，他们用自己的勇气和热情化解了部分人员暂时的出行难题。
At present, the scale of this group in Wuhan city is more than one thousand people, they use their courage and enthusiasm to solve some temporary travel problems.
可在病毒面前，志愿者也不能幸免，有人感染甚至离世。
But in front of the virus, volunteers are not immune to infection and even died.
这些事情必须有人做田正波也是志愿者车队的一员，他每天往返医院三五趟，负责武汉市汉阳区洲头街怡畅园社区内有需要人群的出行。
He commutes to and from the hospital three or five times a day. He is responsible for the travel of people in need in the community of Yi Changyuan, Zhoutou Street, Hanyang District, Wuhan.
虽然穿着防护服，戴着口罩驾驶，但田正波说，志愿者们还是尽可能避免送发热病人，因为要保证护送的医护人员、社区人员与司机的安全。
Despite wearing protective clothing and a mask, Tian said volunteers tried to avoid sending febrile patients as far as possible because of the need to ensure the safety of escorted medical staff, community members and drivers.
1月24日之后，田正波就没回过家，“只在中途回去拿了趟衣服，我让爱人把衣服放在电梯里。
After Jan. 24, Tian didn't return home. 'Only on the way back to get my clothes, I asked my wife to put them in the elevator.
电梯门一开，我就看到5岁的女儿打着赤脚要跑过来。
As soon as the elevator door opened, I saw my five-year-old daughter running barefoot.
”当时的田正波正穿着防护服，赶紧喊她停下。
"Tian Zhengbo was wearing protective clothing and hurriedly called her to a stop.
田正波说，在报名加入公司组建的志愿者车队时，他只想着，“自己是武汉人，要为武汉尽点微薄之力”，直到除夕正式通知上班才敢告诉家人。
When Mr. Tian signed up to join the company's volunteer corps, he said he thought, 'I'm Wuhan, I want to do my best for Wuhan,' and I didn't dare to tell my family until New Year's Eve when I officially went to work.
在田正波对接的社区，社区工作人员正一一了解与核实几千户住户的症状与防护问题。
In the Tian Zhengbo docking community, community workers are learning and verifying the symptoms and protection problems of thousands of households.
“不跑车的时候我就帮忙打电话给住户，核实情况，有出现被感染居家隔离的患者，我就去相应的门栋贴告示。
"When I'm not on the roadster, I call the residents to verify the situation, and if there is a patient in quarantine, I go and put up signs at the appropriate door.
”田正波说。
"said Tian.
田正波所在的志愿者车队已经奔波十余天，这支不同年龄层队员组成的队伍，经历了从最初的“人心惶惶”到现在的“不害怕”。
Tian Zhengbo's volunteer team has been traveling for more than 10 days, this group of members of different age groups experienced from the initial "panic" to the present "no fear.
用田正波的话来说，大家都在努力，接送、运输物资这样的事必须有人去做。
In the words of Tian Zhengbo, we are all trying to transport, transport materials and other such things must be done.
离家十余天，家人始终为他担着心。
For more than ten days, his family cared for him.
他说，做好防护和消毒，有信心，要坚持到最后，抗击疫情结束的那一天。
'Protect and disinfect, have the confidence to stay the course until the end of the epidemic, 'he said.
你会想马上接下一个任务1月26日晚，一条朋友圈里帮助医院送物资的信息，让张超（化名）当即选择加入志愿者车队。
On the night of January 26, a group of friends helped deliver supplies to the hospital. Zhang Chao (not his real name) immediately chose to join the volunteer team.
家里人不赞成也没能阻止他。
His family did not approve and could not prevent him.
这些天，他运过物资，也接送医护人员。
These days, he has shipped supplies and taken medical personnel.
“没有时间吃饭，看到前线医护人员需要很多帮助，会尽心尽力做。
"I don't have time to eat. Seeing front-line medical staff requires a lot of help and dedication.
”在张超最早加入的几个微信群里，每天都几乎不间断发布接收和派发防护物资、接送医护人员的消息。
Mr Zhang was one of the first to join a small group of people who regularly receive and distribute protective equipment and transport medical staff almost daily.
“有上瘾的感觉，你会想马上接下一个任务。
"Feeling addicted, you'll want to take up the next assignment right away.
”一次为了等物资，张超从晚上7点一直等到次日半夜一两点，“不是一辆车，是十几辆车都在等”。
"To wait for supplies, Zhang Chao waited from 7 p.m. until midnight one or two the next day," not a car, but a dozen cars waiting.
还有一次拉物资，一个志愿者因为一人运不了，向已休息了的张超求助，“那会儿已经半夜两点半了，是最晚的一次”。
Another time to pull supplies, a volunteer because a person can not carry, to the rest of Zhang Chao, "it was 2: 30 in the middle of the night, the last time."
“封城”后的武汉，路上飞驰的不少车辆都来自各个志愿者车队。
"After the closure" of Wuhan, many of the vehicles flying on the road are from various volunteer convoys.
张超加入车队后的第四天，他所在的3个志愿者群已有近1000人。
Zhang Chao joined the team on the fourth day, his three volunteer corps has nearly 1000 people.
这群志愿者中，活跃的大部分都是90后，最小的是1998年出生的。
Most of the volunteers were 90 years old and the youngest was born in 1998.
“刚开始不管是激情还是怎样，大家的干劲儿比较足。
"At first, no matter how passionate or how energetic we were.
第三、四天接完医护人员，发现有些事情还是要优先考虑，比如做好自己的防护。
Third, four days after receiving medical personnel, found that some things still have to be a priority, such as their own protection.
”在张超看来，“安全防护做不好就是做坏事”。
"In Zhang Chao's view," to do well in security protection is to do evil. "
有一位志愿者家里有双胞胎小孩，“我知道后就找他谈，故意说得狠一些，告诉他要是他再来跑运输我就把他踢群”，后来这位志愿者改做后勤工作了。
One of the volunteers had twin children at home. "I talked to him when I knew, deliberately made it tough, told him I would kick him if he came to transport again," and then the volunteer changed back to logistics.
面对疫情，更需要志愿者群体的冷静实际上，对这些志愿者来说，防护物品一直缺乏，最早的时候，很多人只准备了口罩、平光镜和帽子，近期才有大部分司机穿上了防护服。
In fact, for these volunteers, there was always a shortage of protective gear. In the earliest days, many people were only equipped with masks, flat glasses and hats, and only recently most drivers wore protective clothing.
张超觉得应该强化部分志愿者的安全意识，他把收集到的防护知识请医生修改后，发到群里，“但文字的东西，大家都不爱看。
Zhang Chao felt that the safety consciousness of some volunteers should be strengthened. He asked the doctor to revise his knowledge of protection and sent it to the group.
直到听说有志愿者感染后，很多人才真正重视起来”。
Not until they heard about the infection did many people really appreciate it.
志愿者大象从很早便担忧志愿者群体的安全问题。
Volunteer elephants have long worried about the safety of the volunteer community.
他曾是2008年汶川地震民间救援队的成员，有专业救援经验。
He was a member of the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake civil rescue team, has professional rescue experience.
12年前，他曾在火车上碰到一对给中介交了4200元就为了去前线帮忙抬水的夫妇，大象发现他们没有任何专业救援知识。
Twelve years ago, he encountered a couple on a train who had paid 4200 yuan to a middleman to help bring water to the front.
他担心这次武汉的疫情里也发生类似情况。
He worries that a similar thing may have happened in Wuhan.
大象在接送医护人员外，主要给志愿者募集物资，直到现在，防护服和酒精都相当紧缺。
Elephants collect supplies for volunteers, in addition to transporting health-care workers. Until now, protective clothing and alcohol are in short supply.
在志愿服务初期，有的志愿者曾不以为然地跟大象讲：“我身体好得很。
In the early days of volunteering, some volunteers told elephants with disapproval, "I'm fine.
”“现在有效调配不足，又缺乏日常的专业志愿服务培训，此时更需要志愿者群体的冷静。
"The lack of effective deployment and the lack of day-to-day professional volunteer training make it all the more necessary for the coolness of the volunteer community.
”大象观察到，目前物资紧缺的状况略有缓解，一部分志愿者车队在其他力量补充上来之后慢慢在退出。
Elephants are observing a slight easing of the current shortage, with some of the volunteer convoys slowly pulling out as other forces come on board.
江城勇士，洗刷了我的灵魂最近几天，曾尧更多的时候是在武汉市第九医院的留观室里照看66岁的父亲。
Jiang Cheng warriors, washed my soul in the last few days, Tseng Yao more often in Wuhan City 9 hospital stay room looking after the 66-year-old father.
父亲1月中旬开始发烧，当时以为是流感，月底的两次核酸检测结果呈阴性。
My father had a fever in mid-January, thought to be the flu, and tested negative for two nucleic acid tests at the end of the month.
但目前情况并不乐观，曾尧正在不断地通过各种办法，寻找一间有呼吸机的病房。
However, the situation is not optimistic, Zeng Yao is constantly through various means to find a room with a ventilator.
他的志愿者生涯因疫情而起，也因此而终。
His career as a volunteer began and ended with the outbreak.
最初为找口罩，曾尧联系上了校友群里的一位校友付文杰。
Mr Tsang first contacted Fu Wenjie, an alumnus of the alumni group, to look for a mask.
媒体报道付文杰时称他是卖房卖车捐300万物资的90后。
Media reports in Fuwenjie said he was selling cars and selling 3 million goods after 90.
从那时起，曾尧就跟着付文杰一起为武汉同济医院、武汉协和医院等配送急需的物资。
Since then, Zeng Yao followed Fu Wenjie to Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Concord Hospital and other distribution of urgently needed materials.
春节期间，父亲身体情况看似有好转，曾尧也被志愿者的行动感染，便正式加入付文杰的车队，归属于物资组。
During the Spring Festival, his father appeared to be better health, Tseng Yao was also infected by the action of volunteers, he formally joined Fu Wenjie's motorcade, belonging to the material group.
在曾尧短暂的三四天志愿者生涯里，他都是早上九点前去医院给父亲送完饭就出发送餐、送物资给医院。
During his brief three or four days as a volunteer, Tseng went to the hospital at 9: 00 in the morning to deliver food and supplies to his father.
“那时候武汉三镇到处跑，每天跑掉将近一箱油。
"At that time, Wuhan three towns ran around, running nearly a case of oil every day.
”他亲眼看见，医护人员在物资极其紧张的情况下冲上一线，而身边志愿者四处奔走不计得失。
He saw paramedics rushing to the front in a situation of severe material strain, and volunteers were running around.
“这些对我冲击很大。
"These have had a big impact on me.
”曾尧说，“江城的勇士们洗刷了我的灵魂”。
"The warriors of the river washed my soul," said Mr Tsang.
中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉“摆渡人”。
Wuhan "wagging people."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉“摆渡人”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我有信心坚持到抗击疫情结束那一天”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "I am confident that I stayed at & quot; until the day the epidemic ended.";
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
