外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉。
Take-out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, volunteers... on the 9th, they maintain the blood in Wuhan.
关注疫情的。
I'm concerned about the outbreak.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
转眼之间，武汉封城，已有九日。
In a twinkling, Wuhan closed the city, has nine.
绝大多数人都闭门在家时，一些还在为城市运送物资和生活用品的人，在尽其所能保障着城市的基本运转。
While the vast majority of the people are at home behind closed doors, some who are still carrying supplies and supplies for the city are doing everything in their power to ensure the basic functioning of the city.
如果把现在的武汉比喻成一具遭受病毒侵袭的人体，他们就像是人体里细小密集的毛细血管，努力延续着这座城市的血脉。
If Wuhan is now compared to a human body attacked by a virus, they are like tiny dense capillaries in the human body, trying to continue the city's bloodline.
···············❶输送物资的人封城以来，整个武汉像播放中的电影被按下了静音键。
Since the closure of the city by the man delivering the material, the whole Wuhan film, like the one on air, has been pressed to silence.
大部分快递公司已几乎停运，大量外地来的货物积压在武汉的仓库里。
Most of the express delivery companies have been almost out of business, with a huge backlog of goods coming from outside Wuhan.
极少量天猫快递、EMS、顺丰的工作人员还在工作，有时一名快递员要送两个大区，堆积如山的货物以缓慢的速度从仓库里向外运输。
A very small number of courier, EMS and Shunfeng staff are still working, and sometimes a courier has to transport two large regions, with mountains of goods moving out of warehouses at a slow pace.
1月26日，志愿者张彻给认识的快递员小王打了一个电话，请他帮忙从仓库里找出他的一箱四天前从沧州寄来的医用外科口罩。
On January 26, volunteer Zhang Che made a phone call to Xiao Wang, a courier he knew, asking him to help him find a case of his medical surgical mask from Cangzhou four days ago.
他承诺，如果你帮我把这个快递找出来，就送你一包口罩。
He promised to send you a bag of masks if you would help me find this express.
一拿到口罩，张彻立即赶往医院。
As soon as he got the mask, Mr. Zhang rushed to the hospital.
作为个体志愿者，张彻每次能找到的物资数量有限，1月25到26两日，他一共只找到200套防护服、100个口罩、100个护目镜，一家医院有肾科室，内外科医室，心脏大血管科室，急诊科、发热门诊，每个科室他都分一点。
As an individual volunteer, he found only 200 suits, 100 face masks, 100 goggles, one hospital had a kidney unit, a surgeries room, a large heart vessel department, an emergency department, a fever clinic, and he shared a spot in each section between January 25 and 26.
有时候，分到一个地方只能给十个，但无论是拿到十箱还是十个，医生们都很感激。
Sometimes, you can only give ten to one place, but the doctors are grateful whether they get ten cases or ten.
对医生而言，每多一个都是在救命。
For doctors, every one of them is saving lives.
以往繁华的商业街上，大部分店铺已关门停业。
Most of the shops that used to be busy shopping streets have closed down.
超市里，很多蔬菜都没有了。
In the supermarket, a lot of vegetables are gone.
青菜、白菜，相比前几天的供应少了很多。
Vegetable vegetables, cabbage, compared with the previous few days supply is much less.
整个徐东大街的片区只有一家便利店还亮着灯。
There was only one convenience store with lights on all over Xu Dongjie.
门口摆满方便火锅、泡面等速食食品。
The door is full of convenient hot pot, bubble noodles and other fast food.
许多戴蓝头盔的外卖骑手在门口等着提货。
Many blue helmet-wearing takeaway riders waited at the door to pick up the goods.
相当一部分不敢或不便出门的人，生活物资的获取完全倚赖穿梭于城市的骑手。
For a considerable number of people who are afraid or unable to go out, the acquisition of material is entirely dependent on the city riders shuttle.
这是吴邦做外卖骑手以来第一次遇到被客户要求加微信的情况，结束完第一单，客户小心翼翼地问，可以加你微信吗？此后每隔一两天，他都会发来一个菜和日用品的单子，每次给20元跑腿费。
It was the first time since Wu was a takeaway rider that someone asked for a credit card. After the first order, the customer was careful to ask if he could send you a message.
因为膝盖曾经粉碎性骨折，吴邦现在走路拐、慢。
Wu is now walking and walking slowly because his knee has been fractured.
1月28日，吴邦在中百超市待了2个小时才买齐对方需要的货品。
On January 28, Wu spent two hours at the Central Perth Supermarket buying everything he needed.
这天夜里忙完回家休息时，吴邦“眼睛都睁不开了”。
Wu Pang "couldn't keep his eyes open" when he came home from work that night.
封城期间，吴邦的跑腿费没变化，一天下来赚的还没有平时多。
During the closure of the city, Wu Bangguo running errands did not change, the end of the day has not earned more than usual.
但不同平台有不同政策。
But different platforms have different policies.
根据“看客inSight”报道，一名年轻骑手表示，1月21日前后，配送费涨了至少12元，他算了下，三天能赚三五千。
According to InSight, a young rider said the rate had risen by at least 12 yuan around January 21, and he calculated he could make three or five thousand dollars in three days.
但大部分骑手还是不敢出门，而出来的骑手遇到送往医院的订单，也很少愿意接，“害怕啊”。
But most riders are still afraid to go out, and the rider out of the order to the hospital, also rarely willing to take, "fear ah."
骑手刘刚大年初一给武汉大学中南医院送了份鲍鱼饭。
Rider Liu Gang sent abalone rice to Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital on Monday.
到了医院，进电梯，一抬头，发现目的地16楼是呼吸内科，他有些忐忑，一上去却发现这儿比他想象的冷清多了。
To the hospital, into the elevator, a look up, to find that the 16th floor of the Department of Respiratory Medicine, he somewhat perturbed, but at first found here than he imagined much more desolate.
前一晚，刘刚看到一条微博热搜，发现武汉医院年夜饭吃的是方便面，他有些脸红，决定第二天多跑几趟医院的单子。
The night before, Liu Gang saw a Weibo hot search, found Wuhan hospital dinner is eating instant noodles, he blushed a little, decided to run a few more times the next day hospital list.
这些送往医院的单子中，有的是孩子请他把妈妈做的饭，送到正在前线治病救人的医生爸爸那儿去。
Some of the bills sent to the hospital had asked him to take his mother's cooking to the doctor's father, who was on the front line.
刘刚觉得，那些封城后依然在路上为其他人奔波的人们身上，帮助他人的动力盖过了对疫情的恐惧。
Liu Gang thinks, those who still on the road after the closure of the people for others, to help other people's power over the fear of the epidemic.
1月29日，刘刚拍摄下路上遇到的着橙色工作服的环卫工人、天桥底下一身荧光绿马甲的交警、着黄色防卫服在路边吃饭的骑手，还有仍在开门的药店，“他们是超级英雄”。
On January 29, Liu Gang filmed sanitation workers in orange overalls on the road, traffic police with fluorescent green vest under Tianqiao, riders eating in yellow suits at the side of the road, and pharmacies still open, "they're superheroes."
同城快递也依然在运行。
Tongcheng Express is still running.
达达众包快递员李在贵这几天连轴转着。
Li, a Dada courier, has been working around the block in recent days.
他所在站点原有9位配送员里，3位此前回老家过年，留下来的人里，没人因为疫情而离岗。
His site originally nine of the distribution staff, three before the New Year back home, the people left, no one because of the outbreak of the disease.
封城三四天时，几个没排班的本地同事觉得在家里呆着无聊，又出来送快递了。
Three or four days after the city was closed, several non-scheduled local colleagues felt bored at home and rushed out to deliver the express.
目前，李在贵在京东站点送货，配送些日常生活用品：口罩、米、面、油、方便面、矿泉水。
At present, Li in Gui delivery in the Jingdong site, distribution of some daily necessities: masks, rice, noodles, oil, instant noodles, mineral water.
平台特意嘱咐，快递员送货时不要跟客人接触，让他们自己下来拿，或放在快递柜。
The platform specifically enjoins couriers not to contact customers when delivering goods, let them down to pick them up, or put them in express cabinets.
李在贵每天都会收到平台发的一个口罩，有时是N95，有时是医用口罩。
Every day, Li receives a mask from the platform, sometimes N95, and sometimes a medical mask.
这已经是业内非常好的水平了。
This is already a very good level in the industry.
实际上，这群为人们运送生活及医护物资的服务业群体，其中很多人自己的防护措施都非常简陋。
In fact, many of these service groups, which transport people's lives and medical supplies, have very little protection of their own.
这几日都在外拍摄的短视频博主林晨说，他最近在街上看见的骑手基本都没戴口罩。
Lin Chen, a short video blogger who has been filming outside these days, said the riders he saw on the street recently were mostly wearing masks.
骑手吴邦戴了口罩，每日更换，但他并没有在回家后给衣物消毒，即使经常出入医院送外卖。
Rider Wu Pang wears a mask and changes daily, but he does not disinfect his clothes when he returns home, even if he often goes to the hospital to deliver takeout.
有些人是缺乏获取与甄别最新疫情信息的机会。
Some lack access to and screening of up-to-date epidemic information.
封城第四天，志愿者张彻依照司机要求，加了十块钱才乘上出租车。
On the fourth day of the city, the volunteer Zhang Che followed the driver's instructions and added ten yuan to get into the taxi.
上车后，他发现司机没戴口罩，仅用围巾围了两圈。
After getting on the bus, he found that the driver was not wearing a mask and only wrapped in a scarf twice.
他赶紧把自己包里的口罩给了她。
He quickly gave her the mask from his bag.
司机见他这么紧张，问：“现在的情况是不是很危险？听说有两百人感染了？”防护物资不足的阴云笼罩在这座城市的每一个人身上。
When the driver saw that he was so nervous, he asked, "Is the situation dangerous now? Two hundred people are said to be infected?" A cloud of inadequate protective equipment hung over everyone in the city.
张彻每次到医院送医护物资时，和医生交流的时间都特别短，相隔一定距离，只有一句约定在反复被重复——这是个已经和30多个医生做过的约定：“好了之后一起出来吃饭！”没有人敢试想那些约定是否能兑现，在张彻的医生朋友里，已经有很多人感染了。
Every time Chang came to the hospital to deliver medical supplies, the time he spent communicating with the doctor was very short, separated by a certain distance, and only a promise repeated over and over again - a promise that had already been made with more than 30 doctors: "Come out and eat together!"
❷自发救援的人“医护人员自己都在拿命拼，我想在后勤上尽可能多帮到他们。
"The medical staff are fighting for their lives. I want to help them as much as possible logistically.
”酒店提供志愿者王鸿运说。
The hotel offered volunteers, Wang Hongyun said.
自封城开始，支援一线医护人员的后勤战也打响了。
Since the self-proclaimed city, the logistics battle to support front-line medical personnel has also begun.
大年三十，封城第二天，看到许多医护人员的出行、食宿得不到保障，武汉的酒店业人士自发组织了“武汉医护酒店支援群”，将自己的酒店房间空出来，为医护人员提供免费住宿。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, when many medical workers were unable to get food and lodging, Wuhan hoteliers spontaneously organized the Wuhan Healthcare Hotels Support Group to vacate their hotel rooms and provide free accommodation for medical staff.
据环球旅讯报道，一开始，只有二十几家牵头参与。
At first, only about a dozen led the way, according to Global Travel.
截止目前，支持救援的已有洪山区、武昌区、汉口区等11区，共316家酒店。
So far, support for rescue has been Hongshan, Wuchang, Hankou District and other 11 districts, a total of 316 hotels.
王欢是群里带头人之一，任职酒店的“临床检查员”。
Wang Huan is one of the group leaders, serving as a "clinical inspector" of the hotel.
这几天，她感到酒店救援群里的失落情绪越来越浓。
Over the past few days, she felt a growing sense of loss among the hotel rescue team.
同时，房租、水电成本在持续消耗，消毒防护物资紧缺、服务人手不足。
At the same time, rent, water and electricity costs continue to consume, sterilization of protective materials shortage, service personnel shortage.
商家们最初只想在交通停运情况下帮助一些回家难的医护人员，过渡几天，希望之后会有政府或公益机构接手处理问题。
Businesses initially tried to help hard-to-get health-care workers in the event of a traffic blackout, transitioning for a few days, hoping that some government or public-interest agency would take over.
“武汉酒店救援群”里自愿为医院提供住宿的酒店之一 ，图源：蜘蛛猴面包而现在，民间的自发救援显然要延续更长时间。
Wuhan Hotels Rescuers One of the hotels that volunteered to house the hospital. Picture: Spider Monkey Bread. Now, it is clear that spontaneous folk relief will take longer.
入住的医护人员越来越多。
More and more medical staff are coming in.
“武汉医护酒店支援群”的表格显示，汉口的61家酒店中有31家标记已住满，紧邻协和医院的所有酒店已住满。
The Wuhan Healthcare Hotels Support Group table shows that 31 of Hankou's 61 hotels are fully occupied, as are all the hotels next to Concorde Hospital.
然而，在救助的前期，许多酒店连消毒水都没有。
However, in the early stages of the rescue, many hotels did not even disinfect water.
救援群中成员自发联系社会人士捐赠，由桶装水瓶运输分发。
Members of the rescue group spontaneously contacted the community for donations and were transported and distributed in drums filled with water bottles.
王鸿运是武昌区艾斯凯精致酒店唯一留守的酒店员工。
Wang Hongyun is the only hotel staff staying at the Eskai Deluxe Hotel in Wuchang District.
年前，很多人都辞职离开了。
Many people quit their jobs and left some years ago.
现在，即使用三倍工资，他们也招不到工。
Now, using triple pay, they can't get a job.
他兼任了前台、清洁员、店长、经理等所有职务。
He held all the posts of receptionist, cleaner, store manager and so on.
这几天来，王鸿运没睡过好觉，电话响个不停。
These days, Wang Hongyun didn't sleep well and the phone kept ringing.
酒店30间客房，现已入住27间，还不断有人打电话咨询入住。
The hotel has 30 rooms, has now occupied 27, but also has the continuous telephone inquiry check-in.
每天，他每隔三小时用84消毒液消毒一次公共区域。
Every day, he disinfected the common area with disinfectant 84 every three hours.
客房布置、床单全由医护人员自助更换——群里的大多数酒店，都是这种情况。
Room arrangements and bed linen are replaced by self-service staff - as is the case in most hotels in the group.
如何消毒、防护用具不足成了这些酒店面临的最严峻的问题。
How to disinfect, inadequate protective equipment has become the most serious problem facing these hotels.
王鸿运只戴了一个口罩，没有专业消毒所需的隔离衣、隔离鞋，没有喷雾式仪器，更不说紫外线灯、空气消毒器等。
Wang wears only one mask, no protective clothing, no isolation shoes for professional disinfection, no sprays, not to mention UV lights, air sterilizers, etc.
入住的医护人员送了他两双一次性手套，直到现在，他也不舍得用。
The hospital staff gave him two pairs of disposable gloves, which he has not been willing to use until now.
一线医护人员如何出行也成了人们最关心的问题之一。
How the front-line medical staff travel has also become one of the most important concerns.
“这段时间我们的医护人员确实很不容易。
"It's been a tough time for our staff.
”1月27日，接受央视《面对面》记者采访时，武汉市长周先旺表示，一开始，政府试图通过给每个社区配备3到5辆出租车的来承担社区内医护人员接送，但这一举措未如愿进行。
In an interview with CCTV's Face-to-Face reporter on January 27, Zhou Xianwang, a Wuhan city minister, said at first the government tried to take on the transport of medical staff in the community by equipping each community with three to five taxis, but that did not happen.
目前，一部分医护人员已通过在医院附近酒店就近休息，解决了通勤问题，还有一部分医护人员自己自驾上下班，剩下的医护人员，则主要是通过滴滴快车组织的一个快车志愿者队伍，以及民间志愿者车队来解决上下班问题。
At present, some medical staff have solved the commuting problem by resting close to the hotel near the hospital, while others drive to and from work by themselves, while the rest work mainly through a team of express volunteers organized by the Drop-Drop Express, as well as a convoy of civilian volunteers.
清晨，vlog博主蜘蛛猴面包在送医生上班的路上封城后，武汉的vlog博主蜘蛛猴面包加入了志愿者车队，他也以视频形式记录下车上的互动：医生下车后，他便拿出瓶装的消毒酒精对医生坐过的位置进行消毒——他也是在“善缘义助”志愿者群里学到的这些防护步骤。
Wuhan vlog blogger spider monkey bread joined the volunteer corps in the early morning after taking doctors to work. He also recorded the interaction in video form: when the doctor got out of the car, he took out a bottle of disinfectant alcohol to disinfect the place where the doctor had sat - a precaution he learned in the volunteer group Benevolence Relief.
接送第一位医护人员时，对方送了他一个N95口罩，说是自己在网上买的，而这位医生自己戴的，是医用外科口罩。
When the first paramedics were picked up, he was given a N95 mask, which he said he had bought online, while the doctor was wearing a medical surgical mask.
❸守卫本职的人封城后，出行的人少了。
The man who guards the job closes the city, leaving fewer people traveling.
对武汉的警察来说，110报警铃声也少了。
For Wuhan police, 110 alarm bells are ringing less.
1月27日，武汉某公安分局共接110警情165起，较平日里该时段平均警情512起，下降了67.8%。
On January 27, a police station in Wuhan received 165 police reports, down 67.8 percent from an average of 512 during the usual period.
“现在没有什么人要扯那些鸡毛蒜皮了。
"There's nobody to talk about now.
”汉口治安民警王行说，过去，派出所一天要解决相当大比例的因琐事而起的斗殴，“购物街上，买东西的说要70块钱买，卖东西的说要80块钱卖。
"In the past, police stations had to deal with a large percentage of petty brawls a day," said Wang Xing, a police officer in Hankou.
言语一不对打起来，就要报警。
If words fail to strike, call the police.
”疫情之下，偷盗者也变少了。
Under the epidemic, there were fewer robbers.
封城第二天，汉口一家派出所的警情为0。
The day after the closure of the city, Hankou a police station for 0.
甚至意外死亡事件也在减少，过去城市里几乎每天都发生的交通事故致人意外死亡事件，消失了。
Even the number of accidental deaths is decreasing, with almost daily traffic accidents in cities disappearing.
警察依然在岗照常工作。
The police are still on duty.
疫情急转直下，几乎每个小区都发生了人员发热却无人敢接送的情况，这时警察都要顶上，承担接送工作。
The epidemic has plunged, with almost every community experiencing a fever but no one dared to pick it up, when the police had to be on top of it.
1月30日，片警小胡一天送了6个疑似病人到指定医院，回到所里，他用84、酒精，对自己全身、车里车外甚至坐垫，全都消毒处理了一遍。
On 30 January, a police officer sent six suspected patients a day to a designated hospital and returned to the facility, where he disinfected himself, the car outside and even the cushions with alcohol.
“对我们而言，觉得把工作做完能就很好了，没有心思想明天怎么办。
"It's good for us to feel like we can get the job done without thinking about what to do tomorrow.
”辅警尹立说。
"said the auxiliary police officer Yin.
23日凌晨，武汉宣布即将封城的同一时刻，尹立所在的辅警分队被领导临时通知停休，外地休息的同事们当天全部被紧急召回，封城当日，他们在武汉的汽车客运站和火车站协助旅客退票，维持现场秩序。
During the early morning hours of May 23, Wuhan announced the impending closure of the same time, Yin's auxiliary police unit was temporarily suspended by the leadership, all the rest of the colleagues were immediately recalled that day, the day the city was closed at Wuhan bus terminals and train stations to help passengers refund, maintain order at the scene.
对尹立而言，他的每一处工作场所都是危险的，媳妇儿怀孕了，万一自己传染给媳妇儿怎么办？最近，尹立都住在宿舍，坚决不回家。
For Mr Yin, every workplace is dangerous, and his daughter-in-law is pregnant, what if she infects her daughter-in-law? Recently, Yin has been living in a dormitory and is determined not to return home.
在社区，亟待解决的问题还有很多。
There are still many problems to be solved in the community.
大量的慢性病人、孤寡老人都在屋内担忧，如何按时就医与购买食物与生活用品。
A large number of chronically ill and lonely elderly people are worried indoors, how to get medical treatment and buy food and daily necessities on time.
目前，市政出租车志愿车队承担了一部分对这类情况的支持工作。
At present, part of the support for such cases is provided by the municipal taxi voluntary fleet.
出租车司机余华辉就是一名自愿参加6000辆出租车进社区计划的一名司机。
Taxi driver Yu Huahui is a driver who volunteered to join a 6000 taxi into the community program.
（注：封城次日，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第8号通告，全市紧急征集6000台出租车，分配给中心城区。
(Note: The day after the closure of the city, Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Notice No. 8, the city urgently collected 6000 taxis for distribution to the central city.
每个社区3-5台，为辖区居民出行提供免费服务。
Each community has 3-5 units that provide free services for residents of the Bailiwick to travel.
）余华辉是早上8:40报的名，到晚上9:00才知道原来政府有补助。
Yu Hua-hui was named in the 8: 40 a. m. newspaper and didn't know until 9: 00 pm that the government had a subsidy.
与他一起相应号召的，在他认识的司机朋友里，有一半人。
Half of the driver friends he knew had joined him in the call.
上阵前一夜 ，余和家人开了“5分钟的家庭会议”，说了很重的话，“如果我不做这个事情，这辈子一定会后悔。
The night before, Yu and his family had a "five-minute family meeting" and said, "If I don't do this, I'll regret it for life.
”妻子女儿最后都表示了支持，嘱咐他注意防护。
"Finally the wife and daughter expressed their support and instructed him to take precautions.
每天，社区委员会对区内需要用车的居民调查清楚出行事由、地点，经过筛选后，告知司机。
On a daily basis, the Commune Council conducts a survey of residents in need of vehicles in the district.
上车前，要检测体温，出现发热情况的乘客不能上车。
Before getting on the bus, must check the temperature, the passenger who has the feverish condition cannot get on the train.
一部分车辆开往医院，带孕妇体检、带透析病人去医院透析、带老年人做身体检查。
Some of the vehicles were taken to hospitals, pregnant women were examined, dialysis patients were taken to hospital for dialysis and elderly people were examined.
另一部分，则是帮助生活不便、又无子女在旁的老人解决物品采买问题。
The other part is to help the elderly who have difficulty living and no children nearby to solve the problem of purchasing goods.
定期，社区工作人员会记录下其所需食物和物品清单，和司机一起出去代为采购。
On a regular basis, community workers record their food and item lists and go out with drivers to make purchases on their behalf.
有时候余华辉和同行们要跑几家超市药店才能购齐居民所需物品。
Sometimes Mr. Yu and his peers have to run several supermarket pharmacies to get everything they need.
出租车公司只给司机提供了医用口罩和84消毒液，余华辉自己增加了手套、一次性雨衣，还备了很多可以熏的中药。
Taxi companies only provide drivers with medical masks and 84 disinfectant, Yu Hua-hui himself added gloves, disposable raincoat, and a lot of herbal medicine can be smoked.
余师傅总觉得公司得再做点什么来保证司机们的安全。
Mr. Yu always felt the company had to do more to keep the drivers safe.
他向公司提过意见，“公司需要（给司机们配备）多少n95的专业口罩，我本人就能提供多少”，他试图说服领导，“我囤了起码有几百个，可以暂时先给大家用着。
"The company needs the number of n95 professional masks I can supply myself," he told the company, trying to convince the leader, "I've got at least a few hundred that I can give you for the time being.
”但没有领导理睬他。
But no leader paid attention to him.
网约车公司（滴滴）组织的志愿车队，装备更为齐全，新闻里清一色的黄色防护服十分晃眼。
The voluntary convoy organized by Netgear (Drop) was more fully equipped and the yellow suit on the news was eye-catching.
这让胡师傅“很酸”。
This made Master Hu "very sour."
网源：荆楚网另一位志愿进社区的司机胡师傅也觉得防护不够，但没有开口跟公司说。
Net source: Another volunteer community driver, Master Hu, also felt inadequate protection, but did not speak to the company.
“现在连医务人员的防护之类的物资都差，轮不上这里。
"Even medical protection and the like are not good enough for this place.
”他有时也会觉得委屈：“也没有人会注意到我们这一块儿，我们也没有地方去说呀，怎么办嘞？”❹保卫城市的人张彻决定要休息一下。
He sometimes feels aggrieved: "Nobody notices us here, and we don't have anywhere to talk about it, OK?" Zhang Cha, a man defending the city, decided to take a break.
奔波在各个医院当志愿者送物资的过程中，他觉得自己已经出现了PTSD（创伤后应激障碍）的症状。
Running through hospitals as a volunteer, he felt he had developed PTSD symptoms.
有时他一合眼，就是几千只手在找他要口罩，而他手上只有一包。
Sometimes when he closes his eyes, thousands of hands are looking for him to ask for a mask, and he has only one bag.
物资运送之路重重受阻，张彻和朋友从安徽阜阳发了1000多套防护服和一些口罩过来，车半夜开到武汉收费站入口段，进不来，路被挖断了，几米宽的大深坑，东西扔都扔不过去，最后货物只能原路开回厂家。
Zhang and his friends sent more than 1000 sets of protective clothing and some masks from Fuyang, Anhui Province. They drove to the entrance of Wuhan toll station in the middle of the night.
张彻没和身边任何人说过自己在做志愿者，情绪出问题后只能自己消化，他整夜整夜睡不着，感到个人力量实在太有限。
Zhang Che did not tell anyone around him that he was a volunteer, emotional problems can only digest himself, he can not sleep all night, feel that personal strength is too limited.
更让张彻忧心的是，他的一位人民医院的医生朋友已经被确诊强阳性感染，正在被隔离。
Even more worrying for Zhang, a doctor at one of his people's hospitals has been diagnosed with a strong positive infection and is being quarantined.
强感染，意味着他体内的病毒来得更凶险。
A strong infection means the virus in his body is more dangerous.
这位医生1月24日被隔离，刚开始只是低烧，他每天还是坚持自己去照顾那些非常危重、传染力非常强的病人，至被医护人员强制他停止工作为止。
The doctor, who was quarantined on January 24th and had a low fever at first, insisted on taking care of his critically ill, highly contagious patients every day until he was forced to stop working by paramedics.
他的肺部阴影面积已经扩散到很大一块。
The shadow of his lungs has spread to a large area.
目前，医生家人尚未得知这一情况，他离婚了，也没有孩子。
At present, the doctor's family has not been informed of this situation and he is divorced and has no children.
而他的另一名医生朋友，因为没有足够的防护物资，被暴露在阳性患者旁边，本来需要被隔离观察，因为人手实在紧缺，他决定不满隔离时间就回去继续工作。
Another of his doctor's friends, who had been exposed to a positive patient because he did not have enough protective equipment, would have needed to be quarantined because he was so understaffed that he decided to go back to work, dissatisfied with the isolation time.
张彻从没想过自己会成为志愿者。
Mr. Zhang never thought he would be a volunteer.
除夕那天，和医生朋友聊天时，朋友随口说大年三十医院没饭吃，张彻就去给他们送吃的。
On New Year's Eve, when chatting with doctors and friends, friends casually said that the New Year's Day Hospital did not have food, Chang Cha went to send them food.
1月24日，也正是疫情恐慌的高峰，大量的人群涌向医院急着检测自己有无感染。
On January 24th, at the height of the epidemic's panic, large crowds rushed to hospitals to test themselves for infection.
张彻在医院大厅内看到清一色的中老年人，人们身体紧贴着身体，有的人没戴口罩，有的人戴的是布口罩。
In the hospital lobby, Mr. Zhang saw elderly people of all stripes, some clinging to their bodies, some not wearing masks, others wearing masks.
张彻正要绕道离开，一双手抓住了他，一位用围巾围着口鼻的中年妇女几乎跪下来：“求求你把口罩卖我吧。
He was about to take a detour when a middle-aged woman with a scarf around her mouth and nose almost knelt down and said, Please sell me your mask.
”接下来，另一双手抓住了他。
"Next, the other hand seized him.
很快，张彻手上一包口罩分完了。
Soon, Zhang Chuan had a bag of masks on his hands.
看到人们拿到口罩以后欣喜若狂的样子，张彻的心揪紧，一些面部烧得通红的病人穿插着遍布医院大厅。
Mr. Zhang clenched his heart as he watched people get their masks, and some of the red-faced patients sprawled through the hospital halls.
他觉得在那种环境里，没有正确防护，旁人很难逃脱被感染的风险。
He felt that in that environment, without proper protection, it was difficult for others to escape the risk of infection.
吃食放下，医生们见到他，纷纷上前询问，他才意识到自己已经泪流满面。
When the doctors saw him and questioned him, he realized that he had burst into tears.
临走前，医生都劝他以后不要送东西了，“本来没病的，去了之后就有病了。
Before he left, the doctor advised him not to give anything in the future. "He was not ill, but he was ill when he went.
”他点点头，转身，开车回去路上，他到处给朋友打电话，“哪里还能搞到防护物资？我买一点。
"He nodded, turned and drove back, calling friends everywhere," Where can I get some more protective gear?
”“这种事情我们只是开个头，并不能解决根本性的问题。
"" We're just getting started on this sort of thing, we can't solve the underlying problem.
”德嘉即刻酒店的周磊说，他所在的酒店加入了“武汉医护酒店支援群”。
Zhou Lei of the Deloitte Inn said his hotel was part of the Wuhan Healthcare Hotel Support Group.
“我们也要活下去。
"We must live, too.
”怡商花园酒店的业主周清慧说。
"said Zhou Qinghui, owner of the Jardine Garden Hotel.
她的酒店有99间房，全为独立空调（中央空调不能开），在3个晚上接待了50多位医护人员。
Her hotel has 99 rooms, all air-conditioned (the central air-conditioner is not open), and has hosted more than 50 health-care workers in three nights.
房租水电加起来，一天的成本大概是6500元。
The total cost of rent and utilities is about 6,500 yuan a day.
前期，酒店的所有防护用品也是周清慧自己采购的。
Earlier, all the hotel's protective equipment is also Zhou Qinghui's own procurement.
前台没有防护服，她采购了3套听说可以勉强替代的“带防护帽的雨衣”。
The front desk had no protective clothing, and she purchased three "raincoats with protective headgear," which she said could be reluctantly replaced.
“我们目前的条件不足以长期免费进行服务，能撑多久还不确定。
"Our current conditions are not adequate for long-term cost-free service, and it is uncertain how long."
”周清慧说。
'said Chow.
王鸿运认识的武汉酒店工作人员都不太好过。
The Wuhan hotel staff that Wang Hongyun knows is not very good.
“大多数业主不是全资投入，很多人都是一边开店一边还贷款，每个月都在还钱。
"Most owners don't invest all their money, and many people pay back their money every month while they open a shop and pay back their loans.
”1月29日凌晨，“武汉123救援车队”在成立第五天发布了一封“告司机朋友书”，宣布由于防护服和口罩等防护资源不足，即日起，暂停接单。
In the early morning hours of Jan. 29, Wuhan 123 Rescue Co-ordinator issued a "Letter of Claim against the Driver Friend" on the fifth day of its founding, announcing that orders would be suspended due to inadequate protective clothing and face masks.
这五天，123救援车队冒着感染风险接送了近千人次医护人员、运送了百余趟物资。
In the past five days, 123 relief convoys took the risk of infection to transport nearly 1,000 medical personnel and more than 100 shipments.
1月30日，一条关于写着“不是告急，是没有！”的武汉协和医院再次求助的微博在网络上热转：“我们保卫武汉，请求你们支援我们！武汉协和医院再次求助！刚刚得到消息，我们的物资即将全部用尽！” 张彻决定不再休息，他很快收拾好出门，又踏上了寻找物资的路。
On January 30, a Weibo about the Wuhan Concorde Hospital, which had written "No Urgent or No!" turned to the Internet for help: "We defend Wuhan and ask you to support us! Wuhan Concorde Hospital once again! Just got the news, we are running out of supplies!
他们继续奔波，也继续等待，等待火神山与雷神山医院的建成，等待疫情拐点的到来，等待封城指令的解除，等待这座城市重新焕发生机活力的时刻。
They continue to run and wait, waiting for the completion of the Mount of Fire and Raytheon Hill Hospital, the inflection point of the outbreak, the lifting of the blockade order, and the renewal of the city's vitality.
应受访者要求，文中部分人名为化名除标注外，图片来源为B站up主林晨GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic situation, or if you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that can contribute to the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, please contact us at any time!
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：刘楚楚、欧阳诗蕾、张佳婧罗方丹、葛书润、陈茹冰编辑：何瑫运营编辑：肖呱呱、二水。
We will work together to tide over the difficulties together. We will send you a colorful egg interview and essay: Liu Dou, Ouyang Poetry Lei, Zhang Jing Jing Lo Fangdan, Ge Shurun and Chen Zhu Bing.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉。
Take-out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, volunteers... on the 9th, they maintain the blood in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; take-out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, and volunteers... & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“好了之后一起出来吃饭！”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Well, come out to eat!" & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; when the epidemic ended.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情让人吃不下睡不着不停刷手机，该如何自救？',。
A: How did you help yourself when the outbreak kept you awake and brushing your cell phone?
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动',。
People invisible in the crisis: AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
