方舱医院拒收的老人后来怎样了？。
What happened to the old man who refused to be admitted to the cabin hospital?
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
偶尔治愈                      。
Occasionally cured.
偶尔治愈。
Occasionally cured.
记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
Document how people relate to illness, old age and death.
。
.
2 月 9 日下午，在被方舱医院「退回」4 天后，刘俊一家被街道居委会通知，当日会安排车辆送其父母入院治疗。
On the afternoon of February 9, four days after being "returned" by the cabin hospital, the family was informed by the neighbourhood committee that a vehicle would be arranged for their parents to be hospitalized on the same day.
在此之前，经历了数日的网络求助，刘俊一度感到入院无望，特别是在父亲退烧后，几乎接受了无法入院治疗的事实。
Before this, experienced several days of network help, Liu Jun once felt hopeless in hospital, especially after his father dropped fever, almost accepted the fact that hospital treatment.
对于突然接到的入院通知，他很难说清，到底是自己的网络求助起了作用，还是近日的「尽收尽治」排查政策成效。
It is difficult for him to say whether his online help helped or whether the recent "take-it-all" policy worked.
事实上，当武汉意识到，应该将居家隔离的确诊和疑似病人等四类人群「应收尽收，应治尽治」时，距离武汉「封城」已近两周的观察期。
In fact, Wuhan has been observing the "closure" of the city for nearly two weeks when it realized that four categories of people, including those diagnosed and suspected, should be "collected and treated as soon as possible."
在此期间，越来越多的武汉家庭内部出现了聚集性发病，部分轻症患者未能得到妥善医治成为重症。
During this period, more and more Wuhan family within the cluster of diseases, some patients have not been properly treated to become serious.
为此，方舱医院的启用成为关键性的举措，偶尔治愈注意到，在方舱陆续收治了数千名确诊轻症患者之后，那些年龄超过 65 岁或病情危重、有基础疾病，甚至一度被方舱医院拒收的老年人成为更加艰难的一群人。
To this end, the opening of the cabin hospital has become a key initiative, with occasional cures noting that older persons over 65 years of age or in critical condition, with basic illnesses and even once denied admission to the Fangcao Hospital, have become even more difficult after thousands of confirmed light cases have been admitted to the cabin.
据官方报道，为了确保不漏一人，武汉正全力进行拉网式排查「四类人群」。
To ensure that no one is missing, Wuhan is making an all-out effort to screen out "four categories of people," according to official reports.
截至 2 月 8 日晚，已排查 391 万户 979 万人，完成 92%。
As at the night of 8 February, 9.79 million households had been screened, 92 per cent of them completed.
到 2 月 9 日 24 时，要求全部排查完毕。
By 2400 hours on 9 February, a full inventory was required.
截至 2 月 10 日，偶尔治愈连续观察了 3 个家庭，除了刘俊父母被收治入院外，另外一个五口之家中，3 位已确诊病人中有两人被收治入院，2 名密切接触者处于居家隔离中。
As at 10 February, three families had been observed on an occasional basis and, in addition to the admission of Liu Jun's parents, two of the three confirmed patients in a family of five had been admitted to hospital and two close contacts were in residential isolation.
情况最为严峻的是徐阿姨夫妇， 57 岁的徐阿姨已通过CT影像被诊断为高度疑似，却一直未能进行核酸检测， 6日被方舱医院以未确诊为由拒收后，病情日趋严重。
The situation is most serious Auntie Xu and his wife, Auntie Xu, 57, who has been diagnosed as highly suspicious by CT images but has not been tested for nucleic acid.
2 月 9 日晚间，在社区登记排队数天后，徐阿姨和丈夫被社区送至前往酒店隔离，目前仍在等待核酸检测结果，且何时能够入院治疗仍需等待。
On the night of 9 February, after waiting in line for community registration for several days, Aunt Xu and her husband were sent to a hotel by the community to be quarantined and were still waiting for the results of the nucleic acid test to be admitted to hospital.
一些人难以抵达的方舱「诺亚方舟」_方舱医院的启用，成为真正开始改变此前武汉对于轻症患者建议居家隔离的关键举措。
The opening of Noah's Ark _ Square Hospital, an unreachable cabin for some, is a key step in a genuine effort to change previous Wuhan's advice on home isolation for people with mild illness.
2 月 5 日，呼吸与危重症医学专家、中国医学科学院院长王辰接受白岩松采访时表示，大批的患者未能及时收治到医院，特别是轻症患者在社会上的流动性大、与家人同住，会造成社会和家庭进一步的感染，成为加剧疫情的最重要因素。
In an interview with Bai Yansong on February 5, Wang Chen, a specialist in respiratory and critical medicine and dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, said a large number of patients were unable to reach hospitals in time.
当日晚间，第一批 3 所方舱医院入住第一批，距离 2 月 3 日敲定开建仅仅过去两日。
The first three Fangcao hospitals were moved in late that day, just two days after the construction was finalized on 3 February.
「方舱医院」一般由医疗功能单元、病房单元、技术保障单元等部分构成，是一种模块化卫生装备，具有紧急救治、外科处置、临床检验等多方面功能。
The "square cabin hospital" is composed of medical functional unit, ward unit and technical support unit. It is a modular health equipment with emergency treatment, surgical treatment, clinical examination and other functions.
启用之后，在外界仍讨论方舱医院是否会造成交叉感染、群体性事件等问题时，许多武汉感染新冠肺炎家庭已经将方舱医院当作了家人进入正规收治环境的希望。
After the launch, many families infected with the new crown pneumonia in Wuhan have treated the hospital as a hope of bringing their families into the regular treatment environment when the issue of cross-infection and mass incidents is still being discussed.
「在家里（隔离治疗）总是很焦虑，既担心传染给家里人，又担心病情进一步恶化后没有医院接收。
"There is always anxiety at home (isolation treatment), both for fear of transmission to the family and for fear of further deterioration without hospital admission.
」6 日，46 岁的夏先生入住武昌方舱后，全家人绷住的一根弦终于得到些许缓解。
After Mr. Xia, 46, moved into Wuchang's cabin on February 6, the tension in his family eased a bit.
相比之下，对于父亲年迈体弱的刘俊，方舱医院一度点燃了这个家庭希望的火苗，又在同一个夜里浇灭了它。
In contrast, for his father's frail old Liu Jun, the cabin hospital lit the family's hope for a while, and poured it out the same night.
刘俊父亲的新冠病毒核酸检测报告单 图片来源：受访者供图2 月 3 日刘俊的父母在咳嗽、发烧多日后通过核酸检测阳性确诊，但依旧一床难求，父亲的呼吸日渐困难，刘俊不得已开始了网络求助之路。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Chinese New Crown Virus Nucleic Acid Examination Report Card Source: The interviewee showed that Liu Jun's parents had been diagnosed with nucleic acid positive after coughing and fever on February 3.
2 月 5 日，此前一直未能提供帮助的社区居委会工作人员联系了刘俊，告知尽快收拾东西，当日会有车辆将其父亲送往方舱医院收治。
On 5 February, community residents who had been unable to provide assistance contacted Liu Jun to tell them to pack up as soon as possible and that a vehicle would take his father to the cabin hospital on that day.
刘俊一度对此有所怀疑，父亲因病从小下肢残疾，生活不能自理。
Liu Jun once doubted this, father because of illness lower limb disability, life can not take care of themselves.
而在他自己获取到的关于方舱医院的收治信息中，都是指向可自理、轻症的年轻患者。
The information he obtained about the cabin hospital was directed at young patients with self-care and mild illness.
来不及质疑，父亲高烧不退，方舱医院成了当下最有可能接近正规治疗的一扇门，至少要比在家自行隔离吃药强许多，他们甚至期待，也许可以通过方舱医院的转诊通道在医院争取到一张床位。
Without enough time to question, the father's feverish fever made the cabin hospital the most likely to be close to formal treatment today, at least much better than isolated medicine at home, and they even expected that perhaps a bed could be secured at the hospital through the referral corridor of the cabin hospital.
带着这样的心情，刘俊编辑了原先的求助内容，更新了父亲将被送往方舱医院的好消息。
With this in mind, Liu Jun edited the original help, updating the good news that his father would be taken to the cabin hospital.
当日晚间 9 点许，按照社区的指示，刘俊自驾将坐在轮椅上的父亲和母亲一同送往集合点，直到将父母送上大巴才驾车离开。
At around 9: 00 pm on the same day, on the instruction of the community, Liu Jun drove his father and mother in a wheelchair to the assembly point and drove them away on a bus.
后来据父母的描述，大巴沿途又从多地接了许多患者耗时颇久，为了防止交叉感染大巴不得开暖气，同时开了窗户透气，体感较冷。
Later, according to their parents, the bus took a long time from many patients along the way, to prevent cross-infection eager to turn on the heating, open the windows breathable, the body feel cooler.
如果不是后来的被拒，刘俊会坦然接受这一切，认为都是值得的。
Had it not been for his subsequent rejection, Liu would have accepted all of this with alacrity that it would have been worth it.
但到了方舱医院，工作人员却在询问情况后告知，因其父生活不能自理、其母有高血压病史，均不在方舱医院的收治范围内。
However, when they arrived at the cabin hospital, the staff informed him, after questioning, that his father was unable to take care of himself and that his mother had a history of hypertension, and that he was not admitted to the Fang Cao Hospital.
与刘俊父母有着相同遭遇的还有 57 岁的徐阿姨，她在咳嗽多日后通过 CT 影像被诊断为高度疑似，但做核酸检测需要社区医院开具证明单。
Liu's parents also had a 57-year-old aunt Xu, who was diagnosed as highly suspicious by CT images many days after coughing, but who needed a certificate from a community hospital to be tested for nucleic acids.
6 日，社区医院告知不再开证明单，将直接统一送病人前往方舱医院。
6, the community hospital informed that no further certificates will be issued, will be directly unified to the cabin hospital.
但在到达红山体育馆改造的武昌方舱医院门口，却因尚未拿到核酸检测阳性结果而被拒收。
But at the entrance to Wuchang Fangchao Hospital, which was renovated at Hongshan Gymnasium, he was refused permission because he had not got the positive result of nucleic acid test.
连日来武汉阴雨绵绵，徐阿姨夫妻俩在红山体育馆吹了数小时冷风后，再次回到家中。
Days of rain in Wuhan, Aunt Xu and his wife in Hongshan Stadium blowing for several hours after the cold wind, returned home.
为了尽早确诊，又一次，徐阿姨独自气喘吁吁地来到社区医院开单子，却又被告知，证明单不开了，现在是要求所有疑似病例通过集中隔离点进行检测。
As soon as possible to confirm the diagnosis, Aunt Xu came to the community hospital alone, out of breath, but was told that the certificate could not be opened, and now all suspected cases are required to be tested through a centralized isolation point.
截止 2 月 9 日晚间，在排队等待3日后，徐阿姨和丈夫被送往集中隔离酒店，等待核酸检测的结果。
On the night of February 9, after waiting in line for three days, Aunt Xu and her husband were sent to a centralized quarantine hotel, awaiting the results of a nucleic acid test.
此时，徐阿姨已经多日胸闷呼吸困难，接听电话中说话已十分吃力。
At this time, Aunt Xu has many days of chest tightness breathing difficulties, answer the phone has been very difficult to speak.
48岁的陈姿然（化名）操持着一个五口之家，但病毒让家庭遭遇重创，丈夫和公婆先后确诊，但迟迟找不到床位。
Chen, 48, runs a family of five, but the virus has hit families hard, with husbands and parents-in-law diagnosed but unable to find beds.
连日来，并不具备隔离条件的家庭内部，已确诊的3人病情肉眼可见的加重，尚未出现症状的陈姿然身心俱疲。
For several days, within the families that did not have the condition of isolation, there was a visible increase in the cases of the three diagnosed persons, and Chen, who had not yet developed symptoms, became fatigued.
截止8日晚，仅有病重的丈夫被送往定点医院救助，而两位年迈的老人则陷入定点医院无床位、方舱医院不收治、隔离宾馆在排队的尴尬境地。
As of the night of the 8th, only the seriously ill husband was sent to the designated hospital, while the two elderly people were trapped in the unbeds of the designated hospital, the infirmary hospital, and the embarrassing situation of the isolated hotel in the queue.
天天变的政策和迷茫的基层人员_对于父母被被方舱医院拒收这件事，刘俊实际上很能理解，「不能理解的是社区医院的落实能力，在搞不清状况下就将我父母送至方舱，甚至在我们被退回后还有意让我们再去另一家方舱医院试试。
"What we can't understand is the ability of the community hospital to deliver my parents to the cabin in case of confusion. Even after we have been turned back, we have the intention to try another cabin hospital.
」当晚，在折腾了数小时后，在回程的大巴上，刘俊的父亲突然出现意识不清的情况，后被救护车紧急送往附近的医院，随后在急诊简单处理后回到家中。
That night, after many hours on the return bus, Liu Jun's father suddenly became unconscious and was rushed by ambulance to a nearby hospital before returning home after brief emergency treatment.
「那天夜里折腾完，等回到家已经是凌晨 3 点多。
"It was almost three o'clock in the morning when I got home from the night.
」刘俊告诉偶尔治愈。
Liu Jun told him to heal occasionally.
这次经历让刘俊对于方舱医院和社区居委会都非常失望，而父亲的状况也并不见好转。
This experience let Liu Jun for the cabin hospital and the community committee are very disappointed, and the father's situation has not improved.
次日，他在愤怒中再次更新了求助内容，表达了对于方舱医院和社区的不满。
The next day, in a fit of anger, he updated his help, expressing his dissatisfaction with the cabin hospital and the community.
在此背后，是匆忙筹措中未能考虑周全的组织能力。
Behind this is a lack of well-conceived organizational capacity in the rush to raise funds.
武昌方舱队长、武汉人民医院副院长万军告诉偶尔治愈，2 月 3 日下午收到通知将对接方舱医院，4 日上午第一次去场馆探访，5 日便迎来的第一批患者。
Wuchang cabin captain, Wuhan People's Hospital Vice-President of the hospital told the occasional cure, February 3 received the afternoon of the notification will docked the cabin hospital, 4 morning the first visit to the venue, 5 ushered in the first patients.
2 月 6 日，在首批患者入住的次日早晨，便传出未通电、设施简陋等负面消息，甚至有患者因为不满情绪而做出摔砸东西等极端行为。
On February 6, the morning after the first patients checked in, negative messages of lack of electricity, poor facilities and even extreme behavior such as throwing objects because of dissatisfaction were reported.
对此，湖北省心理咨询师协会会长、武汉大学中南医院神经科教授肖劲松在 7 日告诉偶尔治愈，他认为当前方舱医院内部最为严峻不是治疗困境，而是心理疏导问题。
Xiao Jinsong, chairman of the Association of Psychological Counsellors of Hubei Province and professor of neurology at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told an occasional cure on the 7th.
「方舱医院作为临时的收治区间条件肯定比较一般，所以患者刚入住时，可能就会产生抵触心理，加上生病担心病情加重、远离家人来到陌生的环境感到孤独，实际上是需要一些心理疏导的。
"As the temporary admission conditions of the Fenghuang Hospital are certainly relatively modest, there may be some resistance when patients first arrive, and there is a need for psychological counseling in the event of illness, increased fear of illness and isolation from family members in unfamiliar places.
」然而，太过仓促的出台，令方舱医院在短短几日的准备期间，缺乏对于患者心理疏导上的预案准备，也让不少医护人员感觉委屈。
However, the hasty introduction of Fang Cai Hospital in just a few days of preparation, the lack of preparation for patients psychological counseling, but also let many medical staff feel aggrieved.
好在，更多的患者在入住一段时间后开始接受现状。
Fortunately, more patients begin to accept the status quo after a period of stay.
面对方舱医院室温较低、厕所环境差等问题，2 月 7 日，夏先生家人告诉偶尔治愈，这些或许只能放在非优先级去考虑了，更看重的是方舱医院能有医护人员看护。
Faced with low room temperature and poor toilet conditions at the cabin hospital, on 7 February, Mr. Xia's family told him that the occasional cures might have to be considered on a non-priority basis, with more emphasis on the availability of medical staff at the cabin hospital.
图片来源：央视新闻8日，肖劲松告诉偶尔治愈，已经将音乐治疗的方案发给一线医护人员，希望能帮助医护双方更好的沟通，产生积极的影响。
Photo: CCTV News 8, Xiao Jinsong told the occasional cure, music therapy program has been sent to front-line health care personnel, hoping to help better communication between the two sides, a positive impact.
武昌方舱队长、武汉人民医院副院长万军也告诉偶尔治愈，在意识到心理疏导问题后，武汉人民医院和湘雅二院一同连夜编制了心理手册并影印了 1000 册，将陆续发放给患者。
Wu Chang, the captain of the Wuhan People's Hospital and vice-president of the Wuhan People's Hospital, also told the occasional cure, after being aware of the psychological problems, Wuhan People's Hospital and Xiangya Second Academy together overnight compiled psychological manuals and photocopied 1000 copies, which will be distributed to the patients.
孙晖也表示，他们计划将通过场馆音响早中晚三次进行广播心理疏导，并将建立患者社区进行互助自治。
Sun also said that they plan to broadcast psychological guidance through the venue three times in the morning and evening, and will set up a community of patients for mutual self-government.
疫情紧急下，同样迷茫的还有基层社区工作人员，一名社区医院的工作人员用「政策天天变」来解释他们在工作中不得已的失误和无效劳动。
Also confused by the outbreak was grass-roots community workers, a community hospital worker who used "policy changes" to explain their mistakes and inefficiency at work.
该工作人员告诉偶尔治愈，方舱医院刚刚启用时，通知 65 岁以下的轻症患者都可以接收，并且可以在方舱医院进行核酸检测。
The staff member informed of occasional cures and, when the cabin hospital was first opened, informed that light patients under the age of 65 could be admitted and that nucleic acid testing could be carried out at the cabin hospital.
但徐阿姨用亲身经历说明，将疑似病患直接送至方舱医院，并在现场进行核酸检测是一种误读。
But Aunt Xu explained from her own experience that it was a misreading to send the suspected patient directly to the cabin hospital and conduct a nucleic acid test on the spot.
「后来通知说方舱不做核酸检测，只收已确诊的患者。
"Later, we were told that the capsule did not carry out nucleic acid tests, but only admitted patients who had been diagnosed.
而且现在不让患者自行去医院做核酸检测，因为容易引发交叉感染，改为统一在宾馆隔离，之后再由集中隔离点安排进行核酸检测。
And now patients are not allowed to go to the hospital for nucleic acid testing, because it is easy to cause cross-infection, instead unified isolation in hotels, and then arranged by the central isolation points for nucleic acid testing.
」8 日晚间，这名工作人员在电话中对类似徐阿姨的疑似病人给出建议，「要不要去宾馆隔离你也要自己考虑清楚，毕竟那里的条件不是很好，如果你感觉还可以，症状没那么严重，最好还是在家隔离。
"If you want to go to a hotel seclusion, you have to think about it yourself. After all, conditions there are not very good. If you feel OK and the symptoms are not so serious, it's best to stay at home.
」发稿前，另一名街道居委会则告诉偶尔治愈，其所在的社区接到的最新通知是，从10日起，所有疑似患者需要先隔离，在通过隔离点进行核酸检测。
"Before the release, another neighborhood committee told the occasional healer that the latest notification to his community was that all suspected patients needed to be quarantined and tested for nucleic acids at isolation points from 10 days later.
但对于密切接触者，这名居委会主任称，目前的要求是尽量对四类人群全部进行隔离，但建议密切接触者先做CT进行排查。
However, for those in close contact, the head of the neighborhood committee said the current requirement was to isolate as many of the four groups as possible, but suggested that close contacts do a CT scan first.
偶尔治愈了解发现，尽管各个街道社区的具体情况不一，但事实上均是落实从2月2日湖北开始下达的对确诊、疑似、发热和密切接触者四类全部隔离通知。
The occasional cure found that, although the specific circumstances of the various street communities varied, in practice all four types of isolation notices for those diagnosed, suspected, feverish and in close contact were implemented, beginning on 2 February in Hubei Province.
在疫情高压之下，按照要求，社区街道被要求负责分级诊疗的首诊端，对逐户进行排查后，按照确诊患者送往定点医院、方舱医院或在无床位情况下向上汇报，疑似人群采取征用宾馆进行隔离、核酸检测，对发烧、密切接触人群进行体温测量、记录等方向进行建档观察。
Under the high pressure of the epidemic, community streets are required to be in charge of the primary clinic for graded treatment. After house-to-house screening, patients are sent to designated hospitals, cabin hospitals or reported upward without beds. Suspected groups of people are required to use guest houses for isolation, nucleic acid testing, temperature measurement and recording of fever and close contact with the crowd.
与这样庞大的工作量相对应的是，社区人员的人手不足问题，这也导致在疫情初期，大量的疑似病人和确诊病患不得不自行前往医院打针、拿药，切断传染源的防控手段一直处于失灵状态。
This huge workload has been matched by an understaffing of community personnel, which has also led to a large number of suspected and confirmed patients having to travel to hospitals for injections and medicines at the beginning of the epidemic, and the means of preventing and controlling the source of infection have been in a state of failure.
医院危重患者「堰塞湖」_2月5日，武汉市人大常委会主任、市委副书记胡立山在新闻发布会上表示，在「四类人员」集中隔离治疗过程中，遇到最大的难题就是集中治疗压力非常大。
Yan Sehu, a hospital patient in critical condition, said at a press conference on Feb. 5 that the biggest problem encountered in the centralized quarantine treatment of "four categories of people" was the high stress of intensive treatment.
他承认，武汉已经确诊的和很多疑似的病人没有住进指定医院救治，形成了「堰塞湖」，让人很揪心很痛苦，并透露共有20629人处于居家隔离的状态。
He admitted that Wuhan has diagnosed and many suspected patients have not been admitted to designated hospitals for treatment, forming "Yan Sehu," a very painful people, a total of 20,629 people in isolation at home.
8 日晚间，江汉方舱队长、武汉协和医院副书记孙晖告诉偶尔治愈，1500 张病床已接近收满，距离启用日期不足 3 日。
On the evening of the 8th, Sun Hui, captain of the Jiang Han cabin and deputy secretary of Wuhan Hsiao Ho Hospital, told an occasional cure that 1,500 beds were nearing full, less than three days before the opening date.
2 月 9 日晚间，父母被收治入院后，刘俊终于可以缓口气想想过去几天发生的一切。
On the night of February 9, after his parents were admitted to hospital, Liu finally took time to think about what had happened in the past few days.
「总的感觉，从 6 号开始，社区收治病患的安排能力突然提高了」，他觉得。
"The general feeling is that the capacity of the community to arrange for the treatment of patients has suddenly improved since June 6," he said.
值得注意的是，2 月 6 日上午，武汉肺炎疫情全面排查动员会也同期召开：要全力抓好源头防控，武汉市要举全市之力入户上门排查「四类」人员。
It is noteworthy that on the morning of February 6, Wuhan Pneumonia Total Screening Campaign Committee also convened: to do a good job of prevention and control at the source, Wuhan City will lift the city's efforts to door-to-door screening of "four categories" of personnel.
更有多个信源显示称，对于疑似人员尽快进行核酸检测、确保确诊人员收治重任成为近日来悬在武汉每一级防控负责人头顶的达摩克利斯之剑中国青年网的文章显示，截至 2 月 8 日晚，已排查 391 万户 979 万人，完成率 92%。
According to a number of sources, DNA testing of suspected personnel as soon as possible and ensuring the admission of confirmed personnel have become an article of the Chinese Youth Network on the sword of Damocles, which hangs overhead at every level of control in Wuhan in recent days. As of February 8, 9.79 million households had been screened, a 92 percent completion rate, according to a report by China Youth Network.
到 2 月 9 日 24 时，要求全部排查完毕。
By 2400 hours on 9 February, a full inventory was required.
据人民日报「侠客岛」官微，2 月 9 日，武汉全市整合市直机关企事业单位党员干部、职工及高校教师，共 16739 人，下沉到疫情较重的社区，统一编入街道社区工作队，全天候全覆盖排查「四类人员」，确保应收尽收、不漏一人。
On February 9, a total of 16,739 cadres, staff and college teachers from enterprises and institutions of the municipal organs in Wuhan, China's People's Daily (People's Daily), sank to communities with severe epidemics.
除了通过社区逐户排查外，人民日报等也开通了「在家隔离危重患者信息征集」渠道。
In addition to house-to-house screening through the community, the People's Daily also opened the "home isolation critical patient information collection" channel.
据知情人向偶尔治愈透露，这部分人员信息将直接上报至中央赴湖北指导组，再根据情况不同由湖北对人员进行分类收治、隔离。
According to the source to the occasional cure, this part of the personnel information will be directly reported to the central Hubei guidance group, and then according to different conditions by Hubei classification, treatment, isolation.
方舱医院的启用，成为疏解堰塞湖的一大关键步骤。
The opening of the Fang Cavern Hospital became a key step in the decontamination of Yan Sehu.
但也是在此后，不符合方舱医院收治标准的重症患者和老年患者矛盾突出。
But also after that, the severe and elderly patients who did not meet the standards for admission to the Fang Cathedral Hospital stand out.
2 月 9 日，刘俊的父母被送往同济中法新城医院收治。
On February 9, Liu Jun's parents were admitted to Tongzhi-France Xincheng Hospital.
据武汉市卫健委公布的武汉市 28 家定点医院病床使用情况，当日该院的已用床位超过了开放床位。
According to Wuhan Health Commission announced the use of 28 designated hospital beds in Wuhan, the hospital on that day has more beds than open beds.
对于类似床位不符问题，卫健委的备注解释称：这是医院按照「应收尽收」要求，为收治更多疑似患者，竭尽所能、尽最大努力安排加床。
The spokesman explained that the hospital had done its best to arrange extra beds for more suspected patients in accordance with the requirement of "receiving as much as possible."
目前，28家定点医院和火神山、雷神山医院成为重症患者的主要收治力量。
At present, 28 designated hospitals and the fire god mountain, Lei Shenshan hospital has become the main treatment force for serious patients.
而据钟南山院士此前接受采访时透露，火神山医院的建立将主要接受轻症和疑似患者，从而让原先的定点医院腾出空间接受更多重症患者。
According to Zhongnan Academician earlier in an interview, the establishment of the hospital will mainly accept light cases and suspected patients, so that the original designated hospital space more serious patients.
以目前的情形来看，火神山、雷神山的定位已经有了变化。
As things stand, the location of Mount Fire and Mount Thunder has changed.
然而，相比于方舱医院，需要更多精密医疗设备的重症病房建设速度要缓慢许多。
However, the construction of intensive care units, which require more sophisticated medical equipment, has been much slower than in the case of a square-cabin hospital.
据武汉市卫健委公布的数据，截止2月9日24时，武汉已有确诊患者16902人，相比昨日增加 1620 人。
As of 2400 on February 9, 16,902 patients had been confirmed in Wuhan, an increase of 1,620 since yesterday, according to figures released by the Wuhan Health Commission.
而已经启用的3家方舱医院——武汉国际会展中心、洪山体育馆、武汉客厅，一共拥有约 4400 张床位。
The three already in use - Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan living room - have a total of about 4,400 beds.
同时，另有第二批方舱医院在陆续建设，预计建成后将有 6700 张床位，合计约有 11100 张床位。
Meanwhile, a second batch of Fangcao hospitals is under construction and is expected to have 6,700 beds, for a total of about 11,100 beds.
与此同时，全市 28 家定点医院和两山医院全部共病床数在 10300 张，加上已收满的第一批 3 所方舱医院的 4400 张床位，仍有一定的缺口。
At the same time, there are still some gaps in the city's 28 designated and two-mountain hospitals, with a total of 10,300 beds and a full complement of 4,400 beds in the first three square-cabin hospitals.
但截止 2 月 9 日 24 时，定点医院和火神山、雷神山医院留给危重患者的空床位仅有 378 张，收治能力捉襟见肘。
However, as of 2400 hours on 9 February, only 378 hospital beds had been reserved for critically ill patients at designated hospitals and the Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain hospitals, straining their capacity.
随着疑似病例逐步确诊，像徐阿姨一样的老年确诊和疑似重症患者如何收治的问题仍然是堰塞湖待解的关键矛盾。
With the gradual diagnosis of suspected cases, such as auntie Xu old diagnosis and suspected severe patients how to treat the problem is still the key unresolved Yan Sehu contradictions.
作者：刘楚责编：李珊珊排版：Ant—Tips—我们的新书《生死之间》出版了可识别下方图片中的二维码购买__偶尔治愈to-cure-sometimes——记录人与疾病、衰老、死亡的相处方式。
In our new book, Between Life and Death, we publish the two-dimensional code that identifies the purchase of _ _ occasionally cured to cure _ cure _ _ _ of the image below - documenting how people live with disease, aging, and death.
刘楚zzZ。
Liu Chu-zzZ.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
方舱医院拒收的老人后来怎样了？。
What happened to the old man who refused to be admitted to the cabin hospital?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "偶尔治愈";。
Var nickname = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
var msg_title = "方舱医院拒收的老人后来怎样了？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; What happened to the old man who was refused at cabin hospital?;
var msg_desc = "那些年龄超过 65 岁或病情危重、有基础疾病的老年患者，成为更加艰难的一群人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; older patients over 65 years of age or at risk with a basic illness have become an even more difficult group.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="偶尔治愈";。
var title = & quot; occasionally cured & quot;;
