救救孩子！湖北一百多名癫痫儿童，马上要断药了！。
Save the child! Hubei more than 100 epileptic children, about to cut off the medicine!
我是大米。
I'm rice.
大米和小米                      。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米。
Rice and millet.
大米和小米是国内领先的自闭症谱系儿童服务平台，提供康复训练、融合教育支持、家长培训、线上课程及科普咨询等一体化服务。
Rice and millet are the leading autistic pediatric service platforms in the country, providing integrated services such as rehabilitation training, integrated education support, parent training, online courses and popular science counselling.
目前，我们已在北京、上海、广州、深圳、郑州开设线下服务机构及多所融合幼儿园，未来还将拓展至更多地区。
At present, we have established on-line services and integrated kindergartens in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhengzhou, and will expand them to more areas in the future.
。
.
刘晓红看着愈演愈烈的疫情，儿子聪聪的抗癫痫药却越吃越少，她有些慌了。
Liu Xiaohong looked at the growing epidemic, her son Cong Cong's anti-epileptic drugs eat less, she a little panic.
聪聪现年5岁，2岁时被诊断为癫痫。
Cong Chung is 5 years old and was diagnosed with epilepsy at the age of 2.
现在必须每天两次，吃两种药物来控制病情。
Now you have to take two medications twice a day to control your condition.
但受“封村”影响，药物无法补充，现有药物只能支撑到2月12日。
But under the influence of "village closures," the drugs could not be replaced, and the existing drugs could only last until February 12.
癫痫俗称“羊癫风”，临床症状为患者突然意识丧失，吐白沫，肌肉强直性收缩等。
Epilepsy commonly known as "epilepsy," clinical symptoms of sudden loss of consciousness, vomiting foam, muscle tonic contraction and so on.
目前，药物是治疗和控制癫痫的主要手段。
At present, drugs are the main means to treat and control epilepsy.
若患者在服药期间如果无故减药、断药，极易导致癫痫症状复发。
If the patient in the period of taking medicine if no reason to reduce drugs, drugs, easily lead to the recurrence of epilepsy symptoms.
而许多抗癫痫药物属于治疗神经类精神疾病的药品，购买相对困难。
And many antiepileptic drugs belong to the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders, the purchase of relatively difficult.
1月21日，武汉“封城”前两天，刘晓红一家从长沙回到老家湖北汉川市回龙镇，准备过年，她计算好返程时间，为聪聪准备了二十多天的用药。
On January 21, two days before Wuhan "closed the city," the Liu Xiaolong family returned from Changsha to their hometown of Hanchuan, Hubei Province, to prepare for the New Year.
聪聪所吃的抗癫痫药物此时，新型冠状病毒的报道已铺天盖地，但似乎并未影响到这个距离武汉110公里的小镇，“街上戴口罩的人不多，还有不少人在做生意。
At the moment, reports of a new coronavirus are widespread, but they do not seem to affect the town, 110 kilometers from Wuhan. "There are not many people wearing masks on the streets and many more are in business.
”刘晓红回忆说。
"said Liu.
两天之后，形势严峻起来。
Two days later, the situation became critical.
“家家户户闭门谢客，各路口也设了检查站，严禁出入。
"Every house has closed its doors, and checkpoints have been set up at every intersection.
”刘晓红一家被困到村里了。
The Liu family was trapped in the village.
“封村”后，无法外出的刘晓红曾委托亲戚在汉川市的医院拿药，但聪聪所需要的药物“德巴金丙戊酸钠口服溶液”以及“妥泰托吡酯片”当地均无法提供；刘晓红又委托上海，长沙等地的朋友邮寄药物过来，但因湖北目前的快递政策，药物无法进来。
"Village closure," Liu Xiaohong can not go out of the hospital entrusted relatives in Han Chuan medicine, but the deaf need for the drugs "sodium Depa-valproate oral solution" and "topiramate tablets" can not be provided locally; Liu also entrusted friends from Shanghai, Changsha and other places to send medicine, but Hubei's current express policy prevented the entry of drugs.
2月5日，刘晓红曾开车欲回长沙拿药，在高速入口的路上被劝返。
February 5, Liu Xiaohong once drove back to Changsha to get medicine, in the high-speed entrance on the road was persuaded back.
之后几天她又找了回龙镇政府、公安部门协调，但协调的结果只是“就近就医”。
A few days later, she went back to the town government, public security coordination, but the result of the coordination only "close to the doctor."
此时的刘晓红说她不知道还能找谁，她只知道如果药没有了，聪聪的癫痫很有可能再次发作。
At this point Liu said she did not know who else to look for, she only know if the drug is gone, deaf epilepsy is likely to re-attack.
刘晓红拿到的由村委会和镇政府盖章的外出申请家中有药，却无法去拿刘晓红母子遇到的困境，在湖北癫痫儿童家庭并非个例。
Liu Xiaohong by the village committee and the township government seal out to apply for medicine at home, but can not get Liu Xiaohong mother and children encountered difficulties, in Hubei epileptic children's families is not an exception.
还有的家长因“封村封路”，即使有药，也拿不到孩子身边。
Some parents because of "sealing the village road", even if there are medicines, can not reach the children around.
1月12日，家住湖北黄冈市的黄州区的王楚，带着妻子和两个孩子，开车回到100公里外的罗田县匡河镇过年。
On January 12, Wang Chu, who lives in Huangzhou, Huanggang, Hubei Province, drove back 100 kilometers to spend the New Year in Quanhe Town, Luotian County, with his wife and two children.
王楚两岁半的女儿患有癫痫，需要每天服用抗癫痫药物“开浦兰”和“奥卡西平片”控制病情。
Wang Chu's two-and-a-half-year-old daughter has epilepsy and needs to take the anti-epileptic drugs "Kaplan" and "Okacipin tablets" daily to control her condition.
此次回匡河镇，王楚带好了女儿假期所需的药品。
This time back to Quanhe town, Wang Chu took her daughter's holiday needs of medicines.
1月24日除夕，王楚所在的村庄宣布“封村”。
On January 24, New Year's Eve, Wang Chu's village was declared "closed."
王楚称，村里直接用泥沙、树木将路封住，而回黄州要经过的其他村，甚至将路挖断。
Wang Chu said that the village directly blocked the road with silt and trees, and Huangzhou to pass through other villages, even cut the road.
黄楚所在村庄的路障眼看女儿的药越吃越少，王楚想开车回黄州区的住所拿药，那里还有可供女儿服用半年的药物。
When Huang Chu saw his daughter eat less medicine at a roadblock in his village, Wang Chu wanted to drive back to his home in Huangzhou to get medicine.
但村主任却说，解除“封村”的时间还要等通知，如果现在想离开村子，那就自己去把路障清理掉。
But the village director said he would have to wait until the announcement was made, and if he wanted to leave the village now, he would clear the barricade himself.
现在女儿的药量还够撑4天，黄楚联系了黄州住所的社区人员把自家的门锁打开，并把药寄到匡河镇。
Now that she had enough medicine to last four days, Huang contacted community members at his home in Huangzhou to unlock their doors and send the medicine to Quanhe Town.
但目前情况特殊，快递不知何时才能到，加之村路封锁，快递不能送到村里，王楚已经决定步行去镇上拿快递。
But because of the special situation, when express delivery will arrive, and the blockage of the village road, express delivery cannot be delivered to the village, Wang Chu has decided to walk to the town to get express.
祖籍湖北汉川市新堰镇李慧同样也面临“有药拿不到”的尴尬境地。
Li Hui of Xinyan Town, Han Chuan City, Hubei Province, is also facing the embarrassment of "no access to medicine."
李慧的儿子诚诚今年8岁，已经持续治疗癫痫4年，现在需要每天吃两种药物控制病情。
Li Hui's son, an eight-year-old son who has been undergoing treatment for epilepsy for four years, now needs to take two drugs a day to control his condition.
受湖北快递政策和“封村”影响，李慧在安徽住所的药物无法配送至她手上。
Under the influence of Hubei express delivery policy and "village closure," Li Hui could not distribute the medicine to her home in Anhui Province.
更麻烦的是诚诚还在做生酮饮食疗法，平时的食物都是由广东的营养师搭配好快递过来。
More troublesome is the sincerity is still doing keto diet therapy, usually the food by Guangdong dietitian good courier over.
如今不仅药物面临停止，营养师也无法及时从广东寄送配餐，而突然停止药物和生酮饮食，很有可能让诚诚多年的治疗功亏一篑。
Not only are drugs now on the line, but dietitians are unable to deliver side meals from Guangdong in time, and a sudden stop to the drugs and ketone diet is likely to derail years of sincere treatment.
注：生酮饮食是一个脂肪高比例、碳水化合物低比例，蛋白质和其他营养素合适的配方饮食。
Note: The ketone diet is a high fat ratio, low carbohydrate ratio, protein and other nutrients suitable for the formula diet.
这一疗法上世纪用于治疗儿童难治性癫痫已数十年。
This therapy has been used to treat refractory epilepsy in children for decades.
眼看诚诚在2月13日就会断药，李慧特别着急，此前的诚诚因为癫痫影响经常无法安睡，导致精神状态也不好，“如果诚诚癫痫再发作，很担心他无法继续上学。
Li Hui was particularly worried about the effects of epilepsy, which often led to poor mental health. "If a seizure occurs in good faith, he fears that he will not be able to continue his studies.
”诚诚日常服用的药物100多个癫痫家庭的燃眉之急何解？据大米和小米了解，和以上3个家庭有类似情况的家庭，还有上百个，其中有孩子已经减药、断药，癫痫复发。
What are the immediate needs of more than 100 families with epilepsy? According to rice and millet, there are hundreds of families with similar conditions, including children who have lost their medication, drugs and seizures.
他们主要面临两个困难：一是买不到药。
They face two main difficulties: the lack of access to medicines.
非处方癫痫药物按规定可以在药店自行购买，但只有市级以上大药店才有；处方药必须在医院配药才可以得到，但目前湖北地区的三级甲等医院只接受发热病人，其他科室停诊；还有一些进口药物无法配送。
Over-the-counter epileptics are prescribed for purchase at pharmacies, but only at large pharmacies above the municipal level; prescription drugs are only available at hospitals, but level III level A hospitals in Hubei Province currently only accept febrile patients and others are off-limits; and some imported drugs cannot be distributed.
二是物流基本无法配送。
Second, logistics is basically unable to distribute.
即便家长托人买到了药，但封路＋快递停运，药物也送不进来。
Even if the parents sent someone to buy medicine, but sealed the road + express delivery stopped, drugs can not be sent in.
有热心人决定帮帮湖北的孩子，从2月6日起，上海的癫痫儿童母亲花妈，接连在微博上呼吁有关部门注意这个问题。
Some people decided to help Hubei children, from February 6, the epileptic children in Shanghai mother HuaMa, a series of micro-blog to call attention to this issue.
看到花妈的倡议后，有医疗背景的志愿者闵磊、戴珅懿、韩志毅也都加入进来。
After seeing Ma's initiative, Min Lei, Dai Shen Yi and Han Zhiyi, volunteers with medical background also joined in.
同时，花妈也为有买药需求的家庭建立起“湖北宝宝，加油！”微信群，和志愿者逐一统计每个家庭具体的药物需求和数量。
Meanwhile, Flower Mum also set up "Hubei Babies, Come on!" for families in need of medicines, and volunteers counted the specific drug needs and quantities of each family.
群里部分聊天截图经过数天的奔走联络，几位志愿者联系到了常见癫痫药物的药企和药房。
After several days of traveling, several volunteers contacted drug companies and pharmacies for common epileptic drugs.
2月9日，志愿者紧急联系调配了一批药品，将于次日通过EMS送到家长手中。
On 9 February, the volunteers made emergency contact to arrange for a shipment of medicines to be delivered to parents through EMS the following day.
由于癫痫药品种类多，一般药房存货较少，所以目前药物储备尚不足，以下药物还存在缺口：硝西泮，氯硝西泮，氯巴占，喜保宁、妥泰胶囊，奥卡西平口服液，开浦兰口服液、唑尼沙胺、左卡尼汀，亚叶酸钙等。
Because of the large variety of epileptic drugs and the small stock of general pharmacies, there is still a shortage of medicines. There are gaps in the following drugs: nitrazepam, clonazepam, clopazepam, siloxacin, tootai capsules, orkasepin oral solution, Kaplan oral solution, zolnisamine, levokanidine, calcium folate, etc.
“就算有了药品，但是怎么送到村镇一级，交通和邮政依然是个难题。
"Even with drugs, transportation and postal services are still a problem at the village level.
”花妈告诉大米和小米，目前药物的流通一般只能到市或者县一级。
Flower Mum told rice and millet that the current flow of drugs can only reach the city or county level.
镇上的邮政基本上是3天左右去一次县里拿邮包，如果没有人催促，可能在县里仓库留存长达一周甚至更久。
The town's post office basically goes to the county about three days to pick up the parcel. If no one pushes on, it may stay in the county warehouse for up to a week or more.
接下来，他们在配齐药物的同时，也希望邮政等相关方面能改善业务流程，好让家长们能更快送到药。
Next, they hope that along with medicines, postal and other related parties will improve business processes so that parents can deliver medicines more quickly.
亲爱的读者这场湖北癫痫宝宝援助计划现需要你的一份力量▼你可以帮助提供上述所需药品或相关购买渠道；可以一起出谋划策，如何解决物流的最后一公里；可以与被隔离在湖北的家庭一起分享癫痫宝宝护理经验、带娃经验；……如你有任何好的想法和资源，请联系：庄鸿韵（花妈）13764055515（微信同号）注：刘晓红、王楚、李慧、聪聪、诚诚为化名。
You can help us with the last kilometer of logistics. If you have any good ideas and resources, please contact Zhuang Hongyun (Flower Mum) 13764055515 (Quorum) Note: Liu Xiaohong, Wang Chu, Li Hui, Cong Cong and Sincerely Sincerely
-完-采写|羲铮 大成 春桃编辑|当当 内容顾问|孙旭阳。
- Xi Jinzheng, editor and editor of Zhengzheng Dacheng Spring Peach, the company's content consultant
我是大米。
I'm rice.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
她每天都在为特殊孩子家庭努力。
She works every day for families with special children.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
救救孩子！湖北一百多名癫痫儿童，马上要断药了！。
Save the child! Hubei more than 100 epileptic children, about to cut off the medicine!
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "大米和小米";。
Var nickname = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
var msg_title = "救救孩子！湖北一百多名癫痫儿童，马上要断药了！";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Help with the baby! More than a hundred epileptic children in Hubei province are about to die! & quot;
var msg_desc = "买药难，取药更难，孩子们随时犯病……";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="大米和小米";。
var title = & quot; rice and millet & quot;;;
