穿越疫情封锁线：4天,23个药店,90通电话,我终于在湖北买到抑郁药/* declared */。
Crossing the Outbreak Line: In 4 days, 23 pharmacies, 90 phone calls, I finally got a depressant / * declared * / in Hubei Province.
穿越疫情封锁线：4天,23个药店,90通电话,我终于在湖北买到抑郁药<br>。
Crossing the epidemic: 24 days, 23 pharmacies, 90 calls, I finally bought AT & L at Hubei; br & gt;
| title       = 穿越疫情封锁线：4天,23个药店,90通电话,我终于在湖北买到抑郁药。
& # 124; T = Crossing the epidemic blockade: Twenty-three pharmacies, 90 calls in four days, and I finally got depression drugs in Hubei.
穿越疫情封锁线：4天,23个药店,90通电话,我终于在湖北买到抑郁药。
Crossing the epidemic blockade: 24 days, 23 pharmacies, 90 phone calls, I finally bought depression drugs in Hubei.
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
被困半个月，你们还好吗？对于很多朋友来说，可能只是生活上的不便，无法出门，购物不方便而已。
Trapped for half a month, you all right? For many friends, it may just be inconvenient, unable to go out, shopping just inconvenient.
但对于很多病人来说，这半个月度日如年。
But for many patients, this half a month seems like an eternity.
前段时间有个艾滋病患者，因为封路，无法出门购买艾滋药物，而在微博求助。
Some time ago, there was an AIDS patient, because the closure, can not go out to buy AIDS drugs, and in Weibo for help.
这并不是个例。
This is not the case.
我们无法想象，因疫情被困的这些人中，有多少人可能有长期服用药物史。
We cannot imagine how many of those trapped by the outbreak might have had a long history of drug use.
而这个春节，他们备的药够用吗？如果不够用，又该怎么办？社会救助有考虑到这方面的需求吗？我一个朋友，常年抑郁症，12月刚从安定医院出院，正是稳定服药期。
And will they have enough medicine for the Spring Festival? If not, what should they do? Does social assistance take into account this need? A friend of mine, who has been suffering from chronic depression, was discharged from the stable hospital in December.
但这个春节，她被困在湖北仙桃，手里的药只够5天，而湖北解封遥遥无期。
But for the Spring Festival, she was stuck in a peach tree in Hubei province, with only five days of medicine in her hand.
她用了四天时间，打了90个电话，联系了23家药店，找了无数的部门机构，开通行证进城……经历层层困难，终于买到了抑郁药物。
She spent four days making 90 phone calls, contacting 23 pharmacies, finding countless departmental offices, issuing laissez-passer to the city and finally buying depression drugs.
她说，打电话的那几天，是我最烦躁的日子，也是我最不想回想的记忆。
She said the days on the phone were my most irritable days and the last I wanted to remember.
还好，结果是好的。
Fortunately, the results were good.
这场惊心动魄的买药记，被她记录了下来，希望能分享给更多被困的病友，也想用自己的经历告诉大家：无论现实多么沮丧，都不要放弃希望。
The heart-rending drug purchase she wrote down, hoping to share it with more of her trapped patients and telling everyone from her own experience that no matter how depressing the reality is, don't give up hope.
作 者 : 纯纯编辑：田静回男友家过年，我被湖北封城困住了我和男友都在北京工作，今年过年去他家见家长。
My boyfriend and I are both working in Beijing. We are going to see our parents at our house this New Year.
他家在湖北仙桃市一个小镇，我家是隔壁省江西的，他家到我家开车五小时。
His family is in a small town in Xiantao, Hubei Province, my family is next door Jiangxi Province, his family to my home five hours.
我们原打算先坐高铁到他家待几天，最晚初二就开车就回我家见我爸妈。
We were going to take the high-speed train to his house for a few days, at the latest on the second day of driving home to meet my parents.
但因为疫情，我被困在仙桃，至今没能回家。
But because of the outbreak, I am trapped in the peach, has not been able to go home.
我们1月21日，坐高铁从北京西到了汉口站。
We took a high-speed train from Beijing to Hankou Station on January 21st.
那时候新闻说未发现人传人，疫源区华南海鲜市场也已经关闭，报道的病例主要是海鲜市场的商贩们，似乎病毒感染性并不高。
The South China seafood market in the affected areas was also closed when the news said there was no human-to-human transmission. The reported cases were mainly vendors from seafood markets and appeared to be less infectious.
我天真的以为今年过年不吃海鲜就行了。
I naively thought I would not eat seafood this New Year.
出发那天，我们在车里还和司机师傅聊今年北京庙会，我们都以为今年会和往年一样。
On the day of departure, we also talked to the driver about the temple fair in Beijing this year. We all thought it would be the same this year.
坐上G507高铁时，车厢里戴口罩的比例不到十分之一。
On the G507, less than a tenth of the cars were wearing masks.
中午12点我们到了汉口站，男友爸爸开车来接我们，这里还是有一半的人没戴口罩。
At 12: 00 noon we arrived at Hankou Station, my boyfriend and dad drove to pick us up, and half of the people here still didn't wear masks.
站口拉客的司机、维持秩序的辅警，他们多是四十岁出头的人，是易感人群。
The drivers of the stations, the auxiliary policemen in order to maintain order, are mostly people in their early forties and are susceptible people.
△1月21日的汉口站原本因为疫情，家人就希望我能早点回家，别在湖北过年，担心严重了交通会封。
January 21 Hankou Station because of the outbreak of the disease, the family would like me to go home early, do not spend New Year in Hubei, worried about serious traffic will be sealed.
结果23日凌晨，武汉突然宣布封城，我才发现这么严重，男友查了华南海鲜市场，发现离我们当时出站的汉口站才几公里距离，我害怕我俩已有病毒，基本宅家不出门了，男票和邻居打招呼时都戴着口罩。
Finally, in the early morning, Wuhan announced the sudden closure of the city, I found so serious, my boyfriend looked up the South China seafood market, found that we were only a few kilometers away from the Hankou station, I was afraid we had a virus, basic homes do not go out, tickets and neighbors greeted each other wearing masks.
23日下午仙桃等十三市通知封城，封城意味着主要高速、省道、大路都会封。
23 afternoon Xiantao and other 13 cities informed the closure of the city, the city means the main highway, provincial roads, roads will be sealed.
我即便再想家，这个年也要在湖北度过了。
Even if I miss home again, I will spend the year in Hubei.
我2019年12月刚从安定医院情感病区出院，是多年抑郁症患者。
I was discharged from the emotional ward of the stable hospital in December 2019. I was depressed for many years.
出京前，医生给我开了抗抑郁药“草酸艾司西酞普兰片”一个月的药量。
Before I left Beijing, my doctor prescribed the antidepressant Aescitalopram tablets for a month.
我带了15天的药在身上，另让从北京先回老家的亲人带了15天的药放老家。
I took 15 days of medicine on the body, and let the family from Beijing first back home with a 15-day old medicine home.
按照原计划，这15天的药能吃到2月3号回到北京后。
The 15-day plan is to last until February 3, when the drug will return to Beijing.
即使2月3号回不了京，我家里还有15天的药量，也够用了。
Even if I can't go back to Beijing on February 3, I still have 15 days of medicine at home.
但我万万没想到，疫情严重到这地步。
But I didn't expect it to be this serious.
1月30日，我发现只剩十粒药，只够维持五天。
On 30 January, I found myself with only 10 pills left, enough for only five days.
我原定2月2日从武汉回北京的高铁已停运，2月3日从江西南昌到北京的高铁倒是还有，但湖北封路，我出不了省，退票已在计划中。
The high-speed railway from Wuhan to Beijing, which I was due to return to Beijing on February 2, has been suspended. The high-speed railway from Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, to Beijing on February 3 is still available.
抑郁药在没有医嘱的前提下，减药或停药，很容易复发。
Depression drugs in the absence of medical advice under the premise of reducing or stopping drugs, it is easy to relapse.
我刚从医院出来，症状好不容易减轻，这只黑狗没追我那么紧了，我不想再加重，更不想再去住院。
I just came out of the hospital, the symptoms are not easy to alleviate, this black dog is not chasing me so tight, I do not want to aggravate, do not want to go to hospital.
我男友也担心不吃药，对大脑造成的伤害会不可逆。
My boyfriend also worried about not taking the medicine, the damage to the brain would be irreversible.
我不敢去设想停药的后果和以往抑郁严重时的那种求生无力，求死恐惧的感觉。
I don't dare to imagine the consequences of stopping medication and the feeble, fear-seeking feeling of life that it used to be when depression was severe.
我在叮当快药尝试下单，根据症状描述和得病时间，线上医生给我开了电子处方。
I was trying to place an order with Tinker Express, and the online doctor wrote me an electronic prescription, depending on the description of symptoms and the time of the illness.
但一直处于确认货阶段，客服说湖北不可以配送，且什么时候送未知。
But always in the confirmation of goods phase, customer service said Hubei can not be delivered, and when to send unknown.
△ 订单快药的医生给开的电子处方不能再等了，冒着风险，全副武装也必须出门买药。
Doctors who order express drugs can no longer wait for an electronic prescription. They have to go out and buy drugs, at the risk of being heavily armed.
23个药店，90个电话，都没有药30日上午我们邻居出去买菜，发现镇上的加油站已经不让加油了，为避免大家开车往外跑。
Twenty-three drugstores, 90 phone calls, none of them drugs.On the morning of the 30th our neighbor went out to buy some vegetables and found that the gas station in the town was closed to gas.
仙桃市不大，确诊病例数在湖北省是倒数三位的，但仙桃市医院接诊了很多从武汉来的病人，因为武汉资源有限。
Xiantao City is not big, the number of confirmed cases in Hubei Province is the bottom three, but Xiantao Hospital received many patients from Wuhan, because Wuhan resources are limited.
仙桃市的产业除了食品，粮食，花卉，还有防护用品，村上的队长每天挨家挨户叮嘱大家注意事项，派发当地生产的口罩。
In addition to food, grain, flowers and protective gear, Murakami's captain went door-to-door every day telling everyone to take precautions and hand out locally made masks.
1月30日中午，我犹豫地吃完两粒药，和男友商量决定用家里车剩下的这点油，去镇上药店看下。
On January 30, at noon, I hesitated to take two pills, discussed with my boyfriend and decided to use the leftover oil from the family car to see the town drugstore.
之前我已经电话问过镇上的卫生院，没有精神科，也没有这类专科药物，我们寄希望于药店的渠道可能更宽泛。
I had called the town clinic before, there was no psychiatry, there were no such specialist drugs, and we were hoping that pharmacies would have a wider range of channels.
出村要登记，两人在萧条的大路上直奔镇上最大药店和药店聚集区。
Out of town to register, the two headed for the town's largest drugstore and drugstore rendezvous on a bleak road.
沿路的草莓大棚前冷冷清清，没有了以往排队购买的顾客，草莓价格也由25元一斤一降再降。
Strawberry greenhouses along the road in front of the cold, no longer queuing to buy customers, strawberry prices from 25 yuan a catty and then down.
药店的药剂师说镇上卖的精神类药物一般都是小塑料瓶的，他以往进的精神类药物都没有我这种板装的。
The drugstore chemist said the psychotropic drugs sold in the town were usually small plastic bottles, and none of the psychoactive drugs he'd ever taken were my own.
逛了几家药店无果，我接受了一位药剂师找到的“舒必利”，它的治疗症中包含抑郁症。
After several fruitless trips to the drugstore, I accepted "Shubili" found by a pharmacist, whose treatment included depression.
一个小塑料瓶，一百粒药，才25元，主治精神分裂，对抑郁症也有疗效。
A small plastic bottle, 100 pills, only 25 yuan, the main treatment of schizophrenia, depression is also effective.
我上网搜了下用药情况，心想总不能白跑，先买回家备用。
I searched the Internet under the use of drugs, thinking that always can not run, buy back home to spare.
其实药店的药也反应了镇上人们对精神类疾病的认识水平，药物大多是治精神分裂的，且针对阳性症状，就是人开始说胡话之类症状非常严重时，才会意识到病了。
In fact, drugstore medicine also reflects the level of awareness of the town's people to mental diseases, drugs are mostly schizophrenic, and the positive symptoms, such as people began to talk nonsense very serious symptoms, will only realize that the disease.
我男朋友不太会开他爸爸的手动挡车，镇上的主路都被用大卡车拦着，我们走小道轮胎还扎了钉子。
My boyfriend can't drive his father's gearbox very well, the main roads of the town are blocked by big trucks, and we drive with tyres and nails.
老家也打来电话说药寄不过来，自从封城，快递就无法进出湖北。
Home also called to say that medicine can not send, since the closure of the city, express delivery can not enter and leave Hubei.
顺丰说只有红十字会专车能运东西，京东快递说最早得五号后才有快递。
Shunfeng said only Red Cross cars can carry things, Jingdong Express said the earliest after the fifth express.
30日奔波一天无果，31日一早联系我的主治医生，打了很久，才接通她们的值班电话。
On the 30th, after a fruitless day, I contacted my attending doctor early on the 31st. It took me a long time to get their call on duty.
还好我的主治大夫在，医生说和我吃的药名不同的绝对不能吃，因为副作用未知。
Fortunately, my attending doctor in, the doctor said and I took a different name must not eat, because the side effects are unknown.
我一直吃的草酸艾司西酞普兰片也是住院期间观察着，才把一天一粒调整为一天两粒的。
The oxalate-citalopram tablets I had been taking were also observed while in hospital, adjusting them to two tablets a day.
我心里很清楚，但还是问医生如果实在没有药，我这几天能否改为一天一粒，能多撑几天。
I knew, but asked the doctor if there was really no medicine, I can change these days into one a day, can stay a few days longer.
医生说先这样，总比没药吃稍好一点，但还是得尽快拿到药。
The doctor said it was better than myrrh, but he had to get it as soon as he could.
挂了电话，我开始一天一粒省着吃。
Hanging up the phone, I began to eat grain by grain a day.
△ 当时剩下的药白天开始准备远程办公相关事宜，向公司报备2月2日回不了北京。
The rest of the drug, which began to be used for telecommuting during the day, told the company that it would not be able to return to Beijing on February 2.
晚上上网查红十字会电话，想知道唯一入湖北的红十字会专车是怎样的运行流程(那时候红会的有关负面新闻还没出现在网络)。
Check the Red Cross phone at night and find out how the only Red Cross bus that goes to Hubei operates (the negative news about the Red Cross hasn't appeared on the Internet).
只找到北京红十字会总会的网址，一次就拨通了联系电话。
Only the website of the Beijing Red Cross Society can be found and a contact number can be dialed once.
接线的年轻小伙子很有耐心，很体谅我的处境，但远水救不了近火，他帮我找当地红十字会电话，让我就近联系解决。
The young wiring young man was patient and considerate of my situation, but could not save the water near the fire, he helped me call the local Red Cross, let me contact the nearest solution.
他说武汉要派发全国来的物资，肯定顾不上，他帮我找了很久的仙桃红十字会联系方式都没消息。
He said Wuhan to send out the national supplies, must not care, he helped me find a long-term peach Red Cross contact information.
不过先找到了镇政府电话(后来未打通）等其他可能帮得上忙的公共服务电话，后来他终于在系统搜到仙桃市红十字会。
But after finding other potentially helpful public-service calls, such as town-government calls, he eventually found the Red Cross in the system.
通过这通电话，我第一次知道市长热线，999急救电话(仙桃似乎拨号是无效)，阳光服务救助管理(后来未打通)。
Through this phone call, I learned for the first time about the Mayor's Hotline, 999 first-aid calls (the peach seems to have been dialed ineffectually) and the administration of the Sunshine Service Rescue (which was not opened later).
第二天还打通了小哥提供的附近几所卫生院电话，虽然和我们镇一样，都没有精神专科。
The next day also opened the small brother to provide several nearby hospital telephone, although like our town, there is no psychiatric specialty.
但能在他的帮助下，打这么多可能有希望的电话，已经让我很温暖了。
But being able to make so many promising calls with his help has warmed me.
最后我打通了仙桃红十字会，但他们也没有运输车派发药品等物资，是机构收到了捐赠的口罩类物资后，让各镇上卫生院开车来拿。
Finally, I opened the Sendai Red Cross, but they also did not transport medicine and other supplies, the agency received donations of surgical masks, the town health hospital to drive to pick up.
不过接电话的工作人员给了我交通管制电话，可询问封城具体情况。
But the person who answered the phone gave me a traffic control number to ask for details.
交通管制热线和市长热线终于打通，但两边客服都说不清楚进城买药证明到底是由谁开，医院，还是村委会，又或是镇政府，还是都需要。
The traffic-control hotline and the mayor's hotline were finally open, but it was not clear to the customer service on either side who was actually driving the drugs in the city, the hospital, the village council, or the township government.
交通管制的客服又给了我疫情指挥部的电话，然而疫情指挥部说不清楚，又给了我交通管制的客服电话。
Traffic control customer service gave me the epidemic command telephone, but the epidemic command can not say clearly, and gave me traffic control customer service phone.
一件事，双方都不清楚权责，两边推脱，这个过程很烦躁。
One thing, both sides are not clear about the responsibilities, the two sides off, the process is very fretful.
2月1日我打了很多这种无效电话。
I made a lot of these useless calls on Feb. 1.
△ 我后来算了一下，那四天，我一共打了90个电话。
I figured out later that four days later, I made a total of 90 calls.
而且前一天114还可以查大型医院的电话，等到第二天不管114还是加了仙桃区号的0728-114都无法查号了。
And 114 can check the phone number of a large hospital the day before, until the next day no matter 114 or add the number of the peach area 0728-114 can not find the number.
写下来这些，不是想吐槽什么，而是希望告诉读者，如果不幸遇到类似的事情别烦躁，多想想办法，看看我走的一些弯路，再试试具体什么事情先找哪个部门好。
Write down these, not want to spit out what, but hope to tell the reader, if the unfortunate encounter with similar things do not fidgety, think more about how I walk a few corners, and then try to find out what specific things first.
我甚至打到当地派出所，但他们都不清楚加油站是不给居民加油的。
I even called the local police station, but they didn't know that the gas station would not refuel the residents.
卫生院都不建议去医院开证明，医生说尽量别来医院，到时候过关卡交警打电话，也一样是没药。
The hospital does not recommend to go to the hospital certificate, the doctor said try not to come to the hospital, when the level of traffic police call, is the same myrrh.
仙桃市第一人民医院倒是有药，接线医生让先去住院部精神科挂号，找医生开，下午五点前都可以，因为要去门诊拿药，尽量四点到，但不用在门诊挂号，那儿人多传染。
Xiantao First People's Hospital is a drug, wiring doctor to go to the inpatient psychiatric registration, doctor to open, before 5 p.m., because to get medicine at the outpatient clinic, try to arrive at 4 o'clock, but not in the outpatient registration, there are many infections.
2月1日下午，男友爸妈也加入寻药分队，叔叔阿姨开车去临镇药店问、拜托送水师傅把我和男票载到城里，拜托在仙桃市的亲人代买……但都因为交通管制原因放弃，即使买到，也无法送过来。
Feb. 1 afternoon, my boyfriend and mother also joined the drug-seeking team, uncle and aunt driving to Linzhen pharmacy asked, please send a man and I tickets to the city, please relatives in Xiantao buy... but because of traffic control reasons, even to buy, can not be delivered.
1号晚上，我给附近所有我们能到的镇，即不经过仙桃市就能到的镇上药店打电话。
On the night of the 1st, I telephoned all the nearby towns we could get, the town drugstores that were accessible without going through Xiantao.
这两天下来，我与当地人沟通已经基本无碍，说话也有地方口音了。
Over the past two days, I have basically been able to communicate with the local people, there is also a local accent.
△ 加上我线下直接去跑的门店，我一共联系了23家药店，都没有药终于找到一家，药店老板说没有药，但他正好有通行证去市里，答应第二天帮我买药。
After all, I contacted 23 drugstores and found no medicine. The drugstore owner said there was no medicine, but he just had a pass to go to the city and promised to buy me some medicine the next day.
结果第二天，也就是2月2日上午十点，药店老板的通行证被收走，仙桃市更加戒严了。
As a result, the following day, at 10 a.m. on February 2, the drugstore owner's pass was taken away and the city of Xiantao was tightened.
他也很抱歉，我也知道是没办法的事。
He's sorry too. I know there's nothing I can do.
穿越封锁线，我终于买到了药一家人商量，决定先去较远的A镇上精神院试试。
Crossing the blockade, I finally bought a drug family to discuss, decided to go to the faraway A town psychiatric hospital try.
由于怕多一个人，感染风险变大，最后决定男友爸爸和我一起去。
Afraid of an additional person, the risk of infection increased, finally decided to boyfriend father and I go together.
中途经过一个路障，下着小雨，我对交警说肺炎能死人，精神病也一样都是病呀，怎能不让去医院。
Halfway through a roadblock, under the light rain, I said to the traffic police pneumonia can be dead, mental illness is also sick, how can not let go to the hospital.
我把之前和镇卫生院打电话的录音给他听，警察又给领导打了电话，告诉我有镇政府证明就可以过。
I listened to the recording of the phone call I had made to the township hospital, and the police called the leader again and told me that a township government certificate would do the trick.
于是我们原路返回到自己镇上，去镇政府开证明。
So we went back to our town and went to the town government to issue a certificate.
我21号来时经过的很热闹的小镇，现在都门窗紧锁，村村路口停着挖土机拦路。
The busy town through which I passed on the 21st was now locked, and an excavator stopped at the village junction.
偶尔有站在门口的人，都戴着口罩。
Occasionally, people standing at the door wear masks.
有个戴口罩的年轻人，拎着一袋东西，在马路中间自由的走模特步，听到我们的车喇叭声，还吓了一跳，愣半天神，才慢慢走到对面车道。
A young man wearing a mask, carrying a bag of things, walked freely in the middle of the road, heard the sound of our car horns, and was stunned for a long time before slowly walking to the opposite lane.
到了镇政府，量体温进了政府大院，公务员都在上班，还有节假日值班表。
At the township government, temperature is taken into the government compound, civil servants are at work, and the holiday watch list.
那会已经到了中午，负责开通行证明的党委书记吃饭去了，不过很快就回来办公了。
It would have been noon, and the party secretary, who was in charge of driving the pass, had gone to dinner, but would soon be back at work.
上一个开证明的是一位精神分裂症患者，把证明填上名字、途经武汉到达本镇的具体日期、身份证号、车牌号、要去买药的地方A镇和仙桃市。
The last certificate was issued by a schizophrenic who gave his name, the exact date of his arrival in the town via Wuhan, his identity card number, the number of his car, the place where he wanted to buy medicine, the town of A and the city of Xiantao.
党委书记边敲字边说看你很正常呀，现在必须吃这个药吗，不吃会怎样？我说会睡不着，吃不下东西，现在封城时候更压抑。
I said that I couldn't sleep, I couldn't eat, and now I'm even more depressed when I shut down the city.
办公室其他工作人员听到，都说小姑娘，你就是想的多。
The rest of the office heard it all, little girl, you just thought a lot.
我说是是是。
I said yes.
男票妈妈也曾说过不要操心那么多，好好吃好好睡就行了。
Men's ticket mother also said that do not worry so much, so good good sleep on the line.
从镇政府拿到证明再走时，相邻小镇之间也新设了关卡。
By the time the township government got its papers and left, new checkpoints had been erected between neighbouring towns.
还好有了通行证明。
Good thing we got a pass.
△ 镇政府开的通行证明再次导航去A镇精神病院的时候，精神病院的地址文字已变灰，地图上精神病院下方出现了“已关闭”三个红字。
Township government issued a traffic certificate to re-navigate to A Town Psychiatric Hospital, the address of the mental hospital has changed gray, the map below the mental hospital has "closed" the three scarlet letter.
我和叔叔不得不绕道去市里，用通行证明在加油站成功加满了油，并成功通过进市关卡。
My uncle and I had to take a detour to the city, fill the gas station with a pass certificate, and make it through the gates.
放行后终于到第一人民医院，我们没敢进医院，旁边有很多药店，天和堂药店是仙桃很大的一家连锁药店，但没有精神专科药物。
After the release to the First People's Hospital, we did not dare to enter the hospital, next to many pharmacies, Tianhe Tong pharmacy is a large Xiantao chain pharmacy, but no psychiatric medicine.
另外两家门面一样大的药店，都卖完了国产的艾司西酞普兰片，只有进口的，是国产两倍的价格，我买了八盒，够一个月的量。
Two other drugstores of the same size sold out their homemade versions of the escitalopram, but only imported, at twice the domestic price, and I bought eight, enough for a month.
我真心希望一个月后疫情能好，我能回家或者回北京。
I sincerely hope that one month from now the disease will get better and I can go home or back to Beijing.
△ 辗转买到的药2月3日睡醒，终于能一天两粒药，没有心理负担，不担心情绪失控的工作了。
After sleeping on February 3, we were able to take two pills a day without any psychological burden and without fear of losing control of our mind.
这天镇上又出了新通知，全面停止私家车，买菜只能用摩托或者自行车。
On this day, the town issued a new notice, completely stop private cars, buy vegetables can only use motorcycles or bicycles.
还记得春运刚开始时，各微信群流行的段子吗？“武汉的群友请退下群，现在5g太迅速了，怕其他群友感染病毒”。
Do you remember the popular passages of the various micro-groups at the beginning of the Spring Festival? "Wuhan friends, please step back from the group, now 5g too fast, afraid of other friends infected with the virus."
可没几天，这病毒就伴随着公共交通运输和春运，人口流动，传向全国。
But a few days later, the virus along with public transportation and spring transportation, the movement of people, spread throughout the country.
交通管制，外来人口检查、限制和隔离……我们谁都没预料到会发展成这样。
Traffic control, immigration checks, restrictions and isolation... none of us expected this to happen.
但我从没有一天后悔过，为什么当初不多带点药，因为如果我这样想了，我的抑郁肯定会加重。
But I never regretted a day, why did not bring a little medicine, because if I think so, my depression will certainly be exacerbated.
我在珠海的亲人，小区跑道封了，以前天天微信两万步，现在每天客厅里跑步，从大门跑到电视旁，跑几圈停会，怕距离太短绕晕，再接着跑，一天也接近一万步。
My family in Zhuhai, the plot runway closed, before the daily letter 20,000 steps, now running in the living room, running from the door to the TV, running a few laps stop, afraid of the distance too short, and then continue to run, a day approaching 10,000 steps.
村里流动喇叭播放着“戴口罩福星高照，不串门福气临门”听着也很有意思。
The village mobile trumpet broadcast "Wear a mask, do not visit the door fortune Rimanmen" listen to it is also interesting.
即使现状不太好，但还是希望大家不要自责，更乐观的生活下去。
Even if the status quo is not good, but still hope that we do not blame themselves, more optimistic life.
当然我也看到朋友圈南方的一个农村，每户都被用铁皮围出了门口一米的活动范围，我想这也许就少了点关怀。
Of course, I also see friends in the southern part of a village, each family is surrounded by a meter of iron sheet outside the door, I think this may be a little less concern.
我还想念我那只在北京宠物店寄养的小泰迪，在身边时天天后腿直立讨抱抱，现在笼子里呆了这么久，他一定很难过。
I also miss my little Teddy, who was placed in a Pet Shop in Beijing. He must have been very sad to have spent so much time with him, standing on his hind legs upright and cuddling.
不是主人不要你了，是一时半会回不去。
Not the host does not want you, is a moment will not go back.
我甚至觉得他在宠物店才是安全的。
I even thought he was safe in the pet shop.
至少接触的人少，有足够的粮食吃。
At least less access to people, enough food to eat.
我们都希望疫情赶快退散，人与人之间的距离不会再像现在这样，都从头到脚裹得严实，互相不说话，间距一米，买完药赶紧散开。
We all hope that the epidemic will soon recede, that the distance between people will not be the same as it is now, all wrapped up from head to foot, speaking to each other, one metre apart, and quickly dispersing after buying the medicine.
我们也会终会等来疫情退散，大家穿上新衣，走向街头，展示自己过年新烫的头发那一天。
We will finally wait for the epidemic to dissipate, we put on new clothes, go to the street, show their new hot hair on the day.
为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
Chinese women to provide professional solutions to protect the safety of Chinese women to turn up to take a quilt to turn a quilt.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
穿越疫情封锁线：4天,23个药店,90通电话,我终于在湖北买到抑郁药。
Crossing the epidemic blockade: 24 days, 23 pharmacies, 90 phone calls, I finally bought depression drugs in Hubei.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
