我是个武汉「逃兵」，我是个卑鄙的人吗？。
I am a Wuhan "deserter", I am a despicable person?
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
最近朋友给我推荐了一部韩国电影，叫《流感》，是一部灾难片。
Recently my friend recommended to me a Korean film called "Influenza," which is a disaster film.
流感的起因并不罕见，讲的是一群东南亚偷渡者历经艰险来到韩国务工，却因沾染猪流感在集装箱内感染而死，只留下一个幸存者顺势逃跑。
Influenza is not uncommon. It tells of a group of South-East Asian stowaways who arrived to work in South Korea but died of infection in a container infected with swine flu, leaving only one survivor to flee.
随后，流感病毒随着幸存者的踪迹，逐渐扩散并一发不可收拾。
Subsequently, the influenza virus along with the survivors trace, gradually spread out of control.
当病毒无法控制时，韩国政府决定对整个城市进行排查封锁，将感染者和非感染者分别放进不同隔离区，并向公众保证，非感染者48小时没有出现症状就可以离开隔离区。
When the virus got out of hand, the South Korean government decided to cordon off the city, placing infected and non-infected people in separate areas of separation and assuring the public that non-infected people would be able to leave the area of separation without symptoms for 48 hours.
影片中，女主金仁海是一名医生，也是一名单亲妈妈。
In the film, the heroine Kim Inhae is a doctor and a single mother.
为了救女儿，她瞒报女儿被感染的信息，将其偷偷带进非感染隔离区；为了寻找女儿，她拿着救所有人命的血清威胁对方……很多弹幕都指责她自私。
To save her daughter, she hid information about her infection and smuggled it into uninfected isolation; she threatened her with a serum that saved everyone's life in search of her daughter... many canisters accused her of selfishness.
我看电影的时候，一直在想，我们不妨换位思考一下，如果我是她，我会放弃自己女儿吗？大家也许会以为这是电影，虚构的，我们不需要这样的换位。
When I was watching the movie, I was thinking, we might as well change seats and think, if I were her, would I give up my daughter? People might think it was a movie, fictional, and we didn't need this transposition.
但是，这一次武汉“封城”，数百万人都面临这样的考验。
But this time Wuhan "closed the city," millions of people face such a test.
现实有时比电影还残酷，每一次灾难都是对人性的考量和真实的显化。
Reality is sometimes more cruel than movies, and every disaster is a reflection and manifestation of human nature.
我们一个武汉读者就给我发来留言，说自己是个“逃兵”。
One of our Wuhan readers sent me a message saying that he was a "deserter."
1月23日凌晨3点，他突然看到一条消息，说武汉将于当天10点，关闭所有的机场、火车等离汉通道，就是后来所说的“封城”。
At 3 a.m. on January 23, he suddenly saw news that Wuhan would close all the airports and trains to the Han Dynasty at 10: 00 am. This is what came to be known as the "closed city.
来不及想太多，两个小时后，他驾车“逃出”了武汉，带着自己的妻子和母亲。
Too late to think too much, two hours later, he "escaped" from Wuhan, with his wife and mother.
他说，那是他生命中最重要的两个人，他必须要保证她们的安全。
He said they were the two most important people in his life and he had to make sure they were safe.
凌晨2点看到封城消息，决定“逃离”武汉我叫道远，生在武汉，长在武汉，武汉是我最爱的城市，没有之一。
I was born and raised in Wuhan. Wuhan is one of my favorite cities. Wuhan is one of my favorite cities.
我是学武术的，在做少儿体育培训，之前一直在武汉，而我的妻子又是长沙人，在长沙工作，两人两地分居。
I am a martial arts student, in the children's sports training, has been in Wuhan, and my wife is Changsha, working in Changsha, the two separated.
去年我将工作调动到长沙，终于和妻子团聚了。
I moved to Changsha last year and was finally reunited with my wife.
但是，我的母亲却独自留在了武汉。
But my mother stayed alone in Wuhan.
临近春节，我就和妻子商议，一起开车回武汉，将母亲接回长沙过春节。
Near the Spring Festival, I and my wife to consult, driving back to Wuhan, will be the mother back to Changsha for the Spring Festival.
母亲刚开始不愿意，说她可以一个人过，让我们不要回去了。
Mother was reluctant at first to say that she could live alone. Let's not go back.
我的父亲已经去世，如果我们不回，就剩下母亲一个人孤零零的过年，我怎么忍心？所以，我们决定一起回去接妈妈来长沙过春节。
My father has died, if we do not return, the mother left alone on New Year's Day, how can I bear it? So we decided to go back together to pick up my mother to Changsha for the Spring Festival.
我们20号中午开车从长沙出发，晚上到的武汉，到了后才发现朋友圈炸锅了，都在谈论疫情的事情，因为那天钟院士公开说了确定人传人。
We drove from Changsha at noon on the 20th, arrived in Wuhan at night, only to find that the circle of friends frying pan, are talking about the epidemic, because that day the academician publicly said to determine the person-to-person.
但那时候我也没有特别紧张，我们回去时间短，根本来不及走亲访友。
But I was not particularly nervous at that time, we returned for a short time, not enough time to visit friends and relatives.
我们本来有两个新春大型聚会，也都取消了，回武汉只外出见了两个人。
We had two big New Year party, also cancelled, back to Wuhan only to see two people.
一个是我小时候练武术的教练，说要我给他拜年；另一个就是小时候玩得特别好的，也是练武术的队友，就去了他们两家，然后其他的地方哪都没去。
One was my childhood martial arts coach, who told me to pay him a New Year call. The other was that I had a great time as a kid and a martial arts teammate, so I went to both of them and nowhere else.
去见他们我也是戴着口罩，因为口罩很紧缺，我也是各种途径买到两盒，我平时都舍不得戴，去见他们才拿出来戴上。
To see them I also wear masks, because there is a shortage of masks, I am also a variety of ways to buy two boxes, I usually reluctant to wear, to see them to wear out.
剩下的时间都是在家中做母亲来长沙的工作。
I spent the rest of my time working as a mother in Changsha.
好说歹说，母亲终于同意除夕之前跟我们一起回长沙过年。
My mother finally agreed to go back to Changsha with us for New Year's Eve.
我平时睡得就比较晚，记得是23号凌晨3点钟，突然看到一则公告发出来，说当天10点所有的机场、火车站等离汉通道关闭，也就是俗称的“封城”。
I usually sleep relatively late, remember 23 at 3 a.m., suddenly saw a notice issued, said 10 o'clock all the airports, railway stations and other Han corridor closed, also known as the "closed city.
△ 封城通告当时我看到这个消息，第一反应是觉得这个写的太“假”了，心里还将信将疑，觉得这么大一个城市，怎么可能封呢，再说，这个病有那么可怕吗，值得要封城？但后来我在网上查证了半天，各个渠道的消息都印证了这件事的真实性。
After 48 hours of investigation, we were able to find out if the death had occurred to us in the past year.After all, after a long period of investigation on the Internet, the truth of this fact was confirmed by various sources.
这个时候我一下子就意识到疫情的严重性了，当时唯一的想法就是，我要把我的妻子和母亲带到安全的地方去。
By this time I was aware of the severity of the outbreak, and the only thought was that I would take my wife and mother to safety.
我之前学过公文相关的东西，消息上写了停运公共交通，飞机铁路全部关闭，但是高速公路和国道却只字未提，我就知道还有走的可能。
I had learned about the paperwork before, the news said that there was no public transportation, that the airplane railroads were closed, but there was no mention of highways or national roads, and I knew there was still a possibility.
我想消息刚刚发出不久，到了早上八九点钟，高速口肯定会有大拥堵，这时候最好能提早出发，免得夜长梦多。
I think not long after the news, by 8: 00 am, there will be a big jam at the expressway, so it's best to start early so that you don't have to dream too much.
我赶紧把已经睡熟的妻子喊了起来，我跟她说了我的判断，还有疫情的严重性。
I hastened to cry out to my sleeping wife, and I told her my judgment and the severity of the outbreak.
妻子当即就和我达成了一致，开始起床收拾东西。
My wife and I immediately agreed to get up and tidy up.
但是，怎么说服我母亲，让她同意现在就跟我们走？这是个麻烦事。
But what about persuading my mother to agree to come with us now? It's a hassle.
母亲耍赖不走，撂下狠话强硬带离我母亲已经60多岁了，观念比较守旧，这次她本来就打算一个人在武汉过年的，能说动她和我们一起回长沙就已经挺不容易了，再让她连夜提前跟我们“出逃”，她肯定是不愿意的。
My mother is more than 60 years old, the idea is more conservative, this time she intended to spend the New Year alone in Wuhan, it is not easy to say that she and we go back to Changsha, and let her "escape" with us in advance of the night, she is certainly unwilling.
我就跟我妻子商量好，我来唱黑脸，她来唱白脸，争取早点和我母亲达成一致。
I agreed with my wife, I sing black face, she came to sing white, try to reach an early agreement with my mother.
我们把她叫醒之后，我先是跟她讲了这个封城的消息，疫情的严重性，然后告诉她我们决定连夜上高速回长沙。
After we woke her up, I first told her about the siege, the severity of the outbreak, and then we decided to go back to Changsha at high speed overnight.
果不其然，母亲一点也理解不了我这个决定。
Sure enough, my mother didn't understand my decision at all.
首先是她连跟我们一起去长沙都不太愿意，更不用说连夜走了；再一个，她当时还根本没有意识到这个疫情有多严重，觉得还没什么好担心的。
First, she didn't even want to go to Changsha with us, let alone go overnight; and second, she didn't realize how serious the outbreak was and didn't think there was much to worry about.
母亲就像一个撒泼的小孩一样，躺在床上不起来，嘴里还喊着“哎呀我年纪大啦，你这会给我拉起来，我要着凉啦”之类的话。
The mother lay in bed like a spilled child, unable to get up, shouting, "Gee, I'm old, you're going to pull me up, I'm going to catch a cold."
不论我怎么劝也不听，跟她说长沙有很多好吃的，她也一点不动心。
No matter how I advised not to listen to her, to tell her Changsha has a lot of delicious, she is not touched.
我看利诱不行就只能威逼了，必须得强硬一点，我也不跟她讲道理了，就说“今天你走也得走，不走也得走！而且你不走我们俩也不会走！”我撂几句狠话，转身就出屋收拾东西，让我老婆在里面当白脸劝她，过一会我就再进去逼她。
I don't think the inducement will work unless you bully her, I have to be tough, I don't want to argue with her, I said, "Today you have to go, not to go! And neither of us will leave without you!" I turned, with a few cruel words, and let my wife go inside to persuade her.
就这么一来一回的，劝说她劝了一个多小时，她终于心不甘情不愿地起来了。
On this occasion, she was persuaded for more than an hour, she finally reluctantly to get up.
担心母亲反悔，来不及仔细收拾行李，匆匆忙忙就出门了，当我们真正开车出发的时候，已经凌晨五点了。
Worried about mother remorse, not enough time to carefully pack up the luggage, hurried out, when we really started driving, it was 5 am.
在车上我妈一直冷着个脸，一句话都不跟我说，甚至我们到长沙之后，一两天她都不太待见我。
My mother kept a cold face on the bus and didn't say a word to me. Even after we got to Changsha, she didn't see me very well for a day or two.
我妈吃了一辈子苦，含辛茹苦把我养大，我无论如何都要把她带到更安全的地方。
My mother has suffered all her life and brought me up with all kinds of hardships. I will take her to a safer place anyway.
再说我妻子，她一个长沙人，因为跟我回趟武汉接母亲，要是有个三长两短，我怎么和她家人交代。
Besides, my wife, she is a Changsha, because I go back to Wuhan to pick up my mother, if something happens, how can I tell her family.
说实话，那时候，我并不能保证自己或者母亲是否被传染。
To be honest, I wasn't sure I or my mother was infected at the time.
反正能把我生命中最重要的两个人安全带出来，我一点不后悔。
Anyway, I have no regrets about bringing out the two most important people in my life.
和武汉亲友告别，希望大家能走都走我出发之前，给我在武汉亲戚好友都发了信息，我觉得不告而别不太好。
Wuhan and relatives and friends farewell, hope that we can all go before I set out, to my relatives and friends in Wuhan have sent messages, I feel good not to take leave.
所以我提前告诉他们，事态已经发展到了什么地步，我觉得我必须得走了，不能留下来陪大家了。
So I told them in advance how far things had gone, and I felt I had to go and not stay with them.
群发了大概几十人吧，我当时也建议大家，高速路还没封，如果有地方去的就提前走吧，谁都不知道封城以后会怎么样，因为这是从未有过的历史。
Perhaps dozens of people, I also suggested that the highway is not sealed, if there are places to go ahead, no one knows what will happen after the closure of the city, because this is unprecedented history.
△ 我在劝说我舅舅后来我得知，有两家亲戚在第二天也从武汉“逃”了出来。
After I talked to my uncle, I learned later that two relatives had escaped from Wuhan the next day.
我们凌晨五点出发，那时候车流量也没有太大，我们一路没有休息，大概10点左右就已经到了长沙，顺利回到了我们自己住的小区。
We started at 5 a. m. when the traffic was not too big, we did not rest all the way, about 10 o'clock has already arrived in Changsha, smoothly returned to our own residential area.
当天下午2点，武汉的高速通道也都关闭了，回头想想真是亡命奔逃。
That day at 2: 00 p.m., Wuhan's high-speed corridors are also closed, in retrospect really rushed to escape.
我现在听闻有一些武汉人，感染了疾病之后因为没有床位，所以逃到外面来，心里也挺不是滋味。
Now I have heard that some Wuhan people, infected with the disease because there is no bed, so fled outside, it is very unpleasant.
因为我也曾在“风暴中心”，我理解他们那种感受。
Because I was in "Storm Center" too, and I understand that feeling.
那真的是“奔命”，就是为了自己的命而奔逃，每个人都有求生欲。
That is really "run for your life", is to run for their own lives, everyone has the desire to live.
但也有反向操作的，比如我哥在知道疫情之后反而想回武汉。
But there are also reverse operations, such as my brother in the knowledge of the epidemic after the return to Wuhan.
我说你回去干嘛？他说怕感染肺炎，感觉武汉的医疗条件好。
I said you go back to do? He said he was afraid of contracting pneumonia, feel good medical conditions in Wuhan.
我就跟他说，如果你没感染，你在家里呆着，全国哪里都安全。
I told him that if you weren't infected and you were at home, it would be safe all over the country.
武汉医疗条件好，但是现在这个情况人均医疗条件足吗？现在在其他地方你如果病了，起码还有个床睡一睡，能把你命护住。
Wuhan medical condition is good, but now this situation per capita medical conditions? Now if you are sick elsewhere, at least a bed to sleep, can protect your life.
我把这种迷惑行为跟我朋友说了，我朋友说你就不要劝他了，你就自己把自己管好就完了。
I told my friend about this confusion. My friend said you should stop trying to persuade him, and you'd have to take care of yourself.
可我还是会习惯性的，往亲戚朋友的群聊里转发一些疫情信息，我感觉这个时候，“恐慌”反而是件好事，能让人留在家里。
But I still get used to relaying epidemic information to friends and relatives, and I feel that "panic" is a good thing to keep people at home.
但其实看多了也就疲劳了，然后就免疫这些信息了，比如说今天回暖出太阳了，我家小区又有很多人在外面打羽毛球。
But actually saw too much also tired, then immune to these messages, such as today warm up the sun, my community and many people playing badminton outside.
希望大家真的不要松懈，疫情还远远没有过去。
I hope we really do not relax, the epidemic is far from over.
我逃之前也不知道这个病毒这么厉害，后来知道了，也有些担心自己会不会在潜伏期。
I did not know before fleeing this virus is so fierce, later know, also some worry about their incubation period.
但理性分析来看，长沙这边的病例少，而且这个病死亡率不高，就是传染快。
But rational analysis, Changsha side of the case is small, and this disease mortality rate is not high, is fast infection.
我首先把自己隔离好不传染别人。
I'll isolate myself first so that I don't infect others.
如果我们三个真的谁确诊了，这边的人均医疗资源肯定要好一些，那我们可以得到有效的救治啊，对不对？这一点的话，我觉得这个决定不后悔。
If the three of us really who diagnosed, this side of the per capita medical resources must be better, then we can get effective treatment ah, right? At this point, I feel the decision not regret.
后来武汉市长发言说有500万人春节前离开武汉，网上出现了很多对武汉人不友好的声音。
Later the mayor of Wuhan said that five million people left Wuhan before the Spring Festival and there were many unfriendly voices on the Internet.
但如果再给我一次机会，我还是会做同样的选择。
But if I had been given another chance, I would have made the same choice.
我只不过是把母亲和妻子带到了安全的地方，而且我们一到长沙之后就开始自我隔离。
I just took my mother and wife to a safe place, and once we got to Changsha, we began to isolate ourselves.
△ 自我隔离期间的朋友圈平时我们也不下楼，家里吃饭上网都不用发愁，唯一需要的就是买点蔬菜，我都是用超市的外送软件解决。
We don't go downstairs, we don't have to worry about eating on the Internet. The only thing we need is to buy some vegetables.
说我们是疫区的逃兵没错，但是我们出来并没有祸害其他人，就连我的天然气断了5天，我都没有出门去缴费。
We were deserters in the epidemic area Yes, but we didn't come out to harm anyone, not even my gas was cut off for five days, and I didn't go out to pay.
说起这个事，我也有点不高兴，一边让武汉回来的人自我隔离，另一边当我遇到了问题，却没有相关人员来帮我解决。
Speaking of this matter, I am a bit unhappy, on the one hand let Wuhan people back to isolate themselves, on the other hand when I encountered problems, but no relevant personnel to help me solve.
严格自我隔离，断了煤气也不敢出门缴费记得25号早上，电信就已经打电话给我妈了，因为我妈的手机号是武汉的，他们从基站追踪了这个号码。
Strict self-isolation, cut off the gas do not dare to go out to pay the bill Remember, on the morning of the 25th, telecommunications called my mother, because my mother's mobile phone number is Wuhan, they traced the number from the base station.
然后我们家进行了一系列的登记报备之后，那边的工作人员说，有什么问题可以随时联系他们来解决。
Then our family had a series of registrations, and the staff there said that they could be contacted at any time to resolve any problems.
那时我刚好发现天然气用完了，就问他我想给天然气缴费怎么办，可以找什么人来帮我们吗？对方给了我一个物业的电话，说让我联系自己小区的物业来解决这件事。
I had just found out that I had run out of gas, so I asked him what I wanted to pay for the gas, if I could find someone to help us.
我打给了物业之后，知道我是武汉来的，又是进行了一系列的报备，包括让我每天测量体温反馈给他们。
After I called the property, I knew that I was from Wuhan, but also carried out a series of reports, including let me take daily temperature feedback to them.
但是，当我说家里没有天然气，又不能网上交，大过年的也得炒菜做饭呀。
However, when I said that there is no natural gas at home, and can not be delivered online, the New Year also have to cook cooking ah.
他想了想，说让我去联系派出所。
He thought about it and said let me contact the police station.
△ 最后这个物业的人让我联系派出所于是我又联系了当地派出所，派出所让我联系负责我们小区的民警，我给民警打过电话之后，他说好，过后会再联系我帮我解决。
Finally this property people let me contact the police station and then I contacted the local police station. The police station asked me to contact the civilian police in charge of our district.
等来等去没消息，我只好自己先网购了一个电磁炉来对付。
Wait until no news, I had to buy their own first to buy an electromagnetic furnace to deal with.
但这个问题总要解决，我又等了几天，也没有人回复我，我给民警又发了信息，也没收到任何回音。
But the problem has to be solved, I waited for a few days, no one replied to me, I sent a message to the police, did not receive any response.
△ 派出所民警的回复政府部门这种打太极的做法，让我有点生气，但是也能理解，毕竟我们是从“疫区”过来的，一般人也不敢上门来拿天然气卡。
Police response to the police station "Tai Chi" practice, let me a little angry, but also understand that we are from the "epidemic area", the general people do not dare to go to the door to get natural gas card.
没有燃气用，一直用电磁炉对付，年夜饭也没吃，大家都被弄得很郁闷，也没心情弄。
No gas, has been used to deal with the electromagnetic stove, the New Year's dinner did not eat, we were all very depressed, not in the mood.
我妈本来就不高兴，这下就更加生气了，一个劲嫌电磁炉不好使，让我直接去充上不就行了吗？我说不行，我们现在还是自我隔离期，不能出去给别人添乱。
My mother is not happy, this is even more angry, a strong discontented induction cooker, let me go directly to plug it? I said no, we are still self-isolation period, can not go out to cause chaos to others.
实际上这个真是靠自觉的，没有人能限制你出门，可我想大多数人应该是有这个自觉性的，要做文明武汉人嘛。
In fact, this is really conscious, no one can limit you to go out, but I think most people should have this kind of consciousness, to be civilized Wuhan people.
直到5天后，我妻子的妹妹过完春节，从乡里返城，才帮我们把天然气给充上了。
It wasn't until five days later that my wife's sister came back from the countryside to refill our natural gas after the Spring Festival.
这个妹妹是个护士，初四那天接到通知，要去人最多、最危险的地方执勤，比如长沙火车站那些，在那里做体温检测。
The sister, a nurse, was told on the fourth day of junior high to go to the most crowded and dangerous places, like those at Changsha Railway Station, where she had her temperature taken.
她说全身穿着防护服，然后好几个小时都没吃没喝，确实很危险也很辛苦，比起我这个武汉“逃兵”，我真心觉的她们很了不起。
She said she was wearing protective clothing and didn't eat or drink for hours. It was dangerous and hard, and I honestly felt that they were better than I was a Wuhan deserter.
车上贴了纸条，汽车还是被鞭炮炸了我每天在家隔离，除了上网也没事可做，看了好多网上对武汉人的抨击，过激的言论和行为让我很难受。
In addition to the Internet, I have nothing to do but watch a lot of online attacks on Wuhan people. Excessive speech and behavior made me very uncomfortable.
我的朋友也提醒我，有人恶意打砸鄂A牌照的车，让我赶紧搞个车衣罩起来。
My friend also reminded me that someone maliciously smashed the car with the E-E license plate and asked me to put on a hood immediately.
车衣我没有现成的，就赶紧弄了张纸，写着我已经在长沙定居半年了。
I did not have ready-made clothes, so I quickly got a piece of paper and wrote that I have been living in Changsha for half a year.
当然，我也撒谎了，没有说这个车刚从武汉回来，担心说了也是增加大家的恐慌，说还不如不说。
Of course, I lied, did not say that the car has just returned from Wuhan, worried to say is also to increase the panic, said it is better not to say.
△ 临时添上了一张纸但是第二天下午，我要去车上拿东西，发现我的车真出事了。
But the next afternoon, I was going to pick up some things and find that my car had an accident.
车位周围和车上全是鞭炮炸过的痕迹，从痕迹上看，有人应该是直接把鞭炮放在我车顶炸的。
There were firecracker marks all around and on the car, and there was a trace of someone who should have put the firecracker right on top of my car.
△ 爱车被炸我真是委屈又无奈，要是平时肯定得找物业去理论，但是现在，我只能灰溜溜地把车停到小区偏僻的角落里了。
I really feel aggrieved and helpless when my car has been bombed. If I had to find a property to reason with me, now I can only park my car in a remote corner of the area in a gloomy way.
我们真是严格遵守在家自我隔离，我陪我妈看看电视上上网，我妻子看看书因为要工作。
We really strictly self-segregation at home, I accompanied my mother to watch the TV on the Internet, my wife read because of work.
因为空闲时间突然多起来，平时不怎么联系的朋友又联系上了，他们也都很关心我的近况。
Because free time suddenly increased, the friends who are not usually in contact with each other again, they are also very concerned about my situation.
我心里清楚，现在没人敢见我，但是这些问候还是很温暖人心的。
I know that no one dares to see me now, but these greetings are still very warm.
刚开始网上对武汉人的声音特别不友好，我心里看了很难受。
At the beginning of the Internet to Wuhan people's voices are particularly unfriendly, I feel very uncomfortable.
我也试着在朋友圈呼吁要理性对待外地武汉人，但收效甚微。
I also tried to appeal to friends to treat Wuhan people abroad rationally, but with little success.
后来在媒体的呼吁下，现在网上理性的声音多了很多，特别是很多地方都积极妥善安置滞留的武汉人，我看了也很感动。
Later in the media appeal, now many rational voice on the Internet, especially in many places are actively responsible for the stranded Wuhan people, I read very moved.
现在什么都想不了，就希望这个疫情快快过去。
I can't think of anything right now, just hope this epidemic will soon pass.
因为疫情，我的培训学校开不了，我妻子的单位也延期开工。
Because of the outbreak, my training school couldn't open, and my wife's unit was delayed.
从23号到现在，已经十多天过去，我们一家都没有任何异常反应，我武汉的亲戚朋友也没有被确诊或者疑似的，这让我松了一口气。
Since the 23rd, has been more than ten days, our family has not had any abnormal reactions, I Wuhan relatives and friends have not been diagnosed or suspected, which I am relieved.
我再熬几天，一切都会好的吧。
I'll stay up a few days, and everything will be all right.
△ 居家隔离14天，并无肺炎症状田静后记：现在看来，道远一家三口是幸运的，很多和他一样选择悄悄“逃离”武汉的，其中有人已经出现发热症状，病毒跟随他们的足迹而向外传播。
After 14 days of isolation and no symptoms of pneumonia, Tian Jing said: "Now, it seems that three people in a distant family are lucky. Many of them, like him, have quietly" fled "Wuhan. Some of them already have fever symptoms and the virus spreads out in their footsteps.
这不仅给更多无辜群众带来麻烦，有的甚至还将面临法律制裁。
This will not only cause trouble to many more innocent people, some of whom will even face legal sanctions.
一武汉父母强行带疑似感染新型肺炎的孩子离境，被马来西亚警方逮捕；四川张某从湖北务工返村后，拒绝“居家隔离”14天的劝告，而被警方带离强制隔离……在这场“战疫”中，法律有明确规定，如果明知自身已感染 “新型冠状病毒”而故意传播，危害公共安全，即使没有造成严重后果，仍构成以危险方法危害公共安全罪，处三年以上十年以下有期徒刑。
Wuhan parents forced to leave the country with children suspected of contracting the new pneumonia, was arrested by Malaysian police; after returning from Hubei Province, Zhang Mou was taken away from mandatory isolation by the police... The law clearly stipulates that anyone who knowingly spreads a "new coronavirus" and endangers public safety without serious consequences will be sentenced to three to ten years' imprisonment.
如果市民实际上携带病原，处于潜伏期，误以为自己没有感染该病毒，并且在主观上没有故意传播传染病的，但不服从政府管制，则会构成过失以危险方法危害公共安全罪，最高可处七年以下有期徒刑。
If a person actually carries the pathogen, is in incubation period, mistakenly assumes that he is not infected with the virus and has no intention of transmitting infectious diseases subjectively, but does not comply with government control, it constitutes an offence against public safety by dangerous means, punishable by up to seven years' imprisonment.
尽管如此，如果时间能够倒回，给每一个武汉人，重新选择一次，会有不一样的结果？我想结果不会改变，甚至有更多人会选择想要离开。
Still, if time goes back and gives each Wuhan person a new choice, it will have a different result? I think the result will not change, and even more people will choose to leave.
危机时刻不要考验人性，也不要站在自己道德的至高点去评价别人，更不能够去绑架，因为我们不是他们。
In times of crisis, do not test humanity, nor stand on the high moral high ground to judge others, still less to kidnap, because we are not them.
有时候道德的那个至高点，换做我们也不一定能爬的上去。
Sometimes the moral high point, we may not be able to climb up.
在灾难面前，有人选择逆流而上，有人选择苟且偷生。
In the face of disaster, some people choose to swim upstream, some people choose to live quietly.
也正是因为这样才显得英雄的悲壮，平凡人的无助，甚至小人的可耻。
It is also because of this heroes appear solemn and heroic, ordinary people's helplessness, and even the ignominious.
时至今日，只希望逆行者无悔，偷生者无恶。
To this day, only hope that the Reverse no regrets, sneaky people do not evil.
那才是人间最好时。
That's the best time on earth.
为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
Chinese women to provide professional solutions to protect the safety of Chinese women to turn up to take a quilt to turn a quilt.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我是个武汉「逃兵」，我是个卑鄙的人吗？。
I am a Wuhan "deserter", I am a despicable person?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girls.
var msg_title = "我是个武汉「逃兵」，我是个卑鄙的人吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; I was a Wuhan "deserter"; and am I a despicable person?;
var msg_desc = "灾难面前，不要去考验人性。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; Don't test human nature in the face of disaster.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girl.
