武汉协和医生：我从没穿过这么贵的防护服。
Dr. Wuhan Concorde: I've never worn such expensive protective clothing.
田静。
Tian Jing.
女孩别怕                      。
Girls don't be afraid.
女孩别怕。
Girls don't be afraid.
为中国女性安全，提供专业解决方案。
Provide professional solutions for Chinese women's safety.
。
.
大家好，我是田静。
Hello, everyone. I'm Tian Jing.
2003年「非典」期间，柴静采访战斗在一线的医护人员：「你们靠什么防护？」当时医生的回答是：「我们靠精神防护。
During SARS in 2003, Chai Jing interviewed medical staff on the frontline: "What protection do you rely on?" The doctor replied at the time: "We rely on mental protection.
」17年后，又一轮疫情，医疗资源依然紧缺。
"Seventeen years later, with another round of outbreaks, medical resources remain scarce.
我们的武汉姑娘宸宸，这些天都坚持在前线做志愿者。
Chen Chen of Wuhan girl, these days adhere to do volunteers in the front line.
她联合身边朋友，出钱出力。
She teamed up with her friends to contribute money.
一边帮忙协调医疗物资捐赠，也冒着风险走出门去，给一线医生送上口罩、护目镜、防护服。
While helping to coordinate the donation of medical supplies, but also risk going out of the door, to the first-line doctors to give masks, goggles, protective clothing.
宸宸记得，一位男医生接过她手中30个护目镜时，不停说谢谢。
Chen Chen remembers, a male doctor takes over her hand 30 goggles, ceaselessly say thank.
转身走了几步之后，忽然又回过头来，对着她鞠了一个90度的躬。
After turning a few steps, he suddenly turned round and bowed 90 degrees to her.
还有一位医生，听到她说，要跟朋友一起送自己高级防护服后，像邻家哥哥一样腼腆的笑了：我还没穿过这么高级的防护服呢！而她接触过的另外两个医生，都因为医疗物资太紧缺，加上高负荷工作，不幸被感染，现在还躺在医院里。
Another doctor, hearing her say she was going to send her advanced protective clothing with her friends, smiled shyly like her brother-next-door: I haven't worn such a sophisticated wardrobe yet, and the other two doctors she spoke to are still in the hospital, suffering from severe medical shortages and high workload.
其中一个女医生，负责给疑似病人拍CT。
One of the women doctors was responsible for taking a CT scan of the suspected patient.
开始时他们科室只有一件防护服，大家只能消毒之后轮换着穿。
At the beginning of their department only one protective clothing, we can only disinfect after rotation wear.
她在连续工作36小时后，开始发高烧，最后被确诊。
After 36 hours of continuous work, she developed a high fever and was finally diagnosed.
这些只有短暂交集的一线医务工作者，都让宸宸心疼又心碎。
These only have brief intersection front-line medical worker, let chen chen heartache and heartbreak.
她记录下和他们的故事，也是记录下这段历史。
She records their stories and records their history.
有人说，「世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
Some people say, "There are no heroes who come from the sky, only mortals who come out.
」每一个挺身而出的凡人，都应该被我们尽可能记得久一点，再久一点。
"Every mortal who comes forward should be remembered as long as we can, a little longer.
才不会在几十年、上百年后，变成无迹可寻的传说。
Will not be decades, hundreds of years later, become untraceable legend.
作者 : 宸宸编辑：田静他腼腆笑了一下：我还没穿过这么高级的防护服1月23号，武汉封城当天，妈妈群里有个群友问我，还有没有医用外科口罩，协和医院儿科的林医生急需。
He also smiled shyly. On January 23, when Wuhan was closed, a group of his friends asked me if there were any medical surgical masks, and Dr. Lin, a pediatrician at Concorde Hospital, needed them urgently.
我很吃惊。
I'm surprised.
那可是三甲医院，怎么会缺防护用品？还追问了一句，你确定是林医生？她给我发来林医生的聊天截图。
That's the Sanjia Hospital. How come you're short of protective gear? You're sure it's Dr. Lin? She sent me a screenshot of Dr. Lin's chat.
当时，我手里刚好有一箱深圳朋友寄来的医用外科口罩。
At the time, I was in possession of a medical surgical mask from a friend in Shenzhen.
林医生提出，自己来找我取。
Dr. Lin offered to come and fetch it himself.
当天下午两点半，我在汉口的二环边上见到了他。
At half past two in the afternoon, I saw him on the edge of the Hankou Second Ring Road.
那天雾霾。
The haze that day.
深冬的武汉，街边的树叶掉了一地。
Wuhan in late winter, the street leaves fell to the ground.
街上空荡荡。
The streets are empty.
△ 空无一人的武汉商业街/ VLOG博主林晨《空城武汉》我把手里200个口罩交给他，问他，你为什么会没有防护用品？他说，都紧着发热门诊和呼吸科了，他们儿科不是一线科室，所以一个N95用3天，里面垫一个医用外科口罩，平时只换里面的外科口罩，不换N95。
I gave him 200 face masks and asked him why you didn't have protective gear? He said, their pediatric department is not a frontline department, so one N95 took three days to put a medical surgical mask inside it, instead of changing it for N95.
他戴着口罩，语速很慢，话语里透着无奈和疲惫。
He was wearing a mask and spoke slowly, with helplessness and exhaustion in his voice.
我鼻子一下就酸了。
My nose hurts a bit.
我说，我以前带着孩子找您看过病的，您一定要保重。
I said, I brought the children to see you before, you must take care of yourself.
我们重重的握了一下手。
We gave each other a big hand.
他转身离去的时候，有句话在我脑海里环绕：为众人抱薪者，不可使其冻毙于风雪。
As he turned to leave, a word swirled through my mind: 'Don't freeze to death for everyone who is salaried.
傍晚，他特地发了条微博，感谢我和那位群友妈妈。
In the evening, he specially sent a micro-blog, thank me and the group of friends mother.
△ 林医生当天发的微博就是这件事，促使我去做了志愿者。
The fact that Dr. dellin posted a microblog on the same day prompted me to volunteer.
我们需要他这样的好医生。
We need a good doctor like him.
我想说件过去的事。
I want to say something about the past.
我孩子8个月的时候，得了喘息性支气管炎，持续高烧，喘到不能喝奶、睡觉。
When my child was eight months old, he suffered from wheezing bronchitis, a persistent high fever, and panting and sleep deprivation.
其他医院都告诉我，孩子很严重，要作为重度肺炎住院治疗。
Other hospitals told me that the child was very serious and needed to be hospitalized with severe pneumonia.
我不放心，就找到了林医生咨询。
Unsure of myself, I went to Dr. Lin for advice.
他告诉我不必住院，指导我如何在家里用药、护理，直到痊愈。
He told me that I didn't need to be hospitalized. He instructed me how to take medicine and care at home until I recovered.
他保护了我的孩子没有被过度治疗。
He protected my child from over-treatment.
后来我推荐了很多人去找林医生，他每次都会耐心温柔的讲解，教他们正确看待孩子生病这件事，不盲目吃药，给了妈妈们最大的支持。
Later I recommended a lot of people to see Dr. Lin, he will always patiently and gently explain, teach them a correct view of the child's illness, do not blindly take medicine, give mothers the greatest support.
1月27日，协和医院西院区被征调为发热隔离医院。
On 27 January, the Western District of Concorde Hospital was convoked to a fever isolation hospital.
林医生毅然上了一线。
Dr. Lin is resolutely on the line.
但因为缺物资，医院发给他的，是一套工业防护服，根本达不到医疗防护标准。
For lack of supplies, however, the hospital issued him with an industrial suit that did not meet medical protection standards at all.
他穿上之后拍了张照片，调侃自己像山寨版钢铁侠。
He put it on and took a photo, mocking himself as a fake version of Iron Man.
但我觉得，他更像山寨版的大白，毕竟他那么温暖。
But I think he is more like a shanzhai version of the white, after all, he is so warm.
△ 林医生穿的这种工业防护服，原本不能作为医疗防护品，主要是防腐蚀、防静电、防水雾/油渍、防灰尘和隔热。
The industrial protective clothing Dr.?? lin was wearing could not have been used as a medical protection against corrosion, static electricity, waterproof fog / oil stains, dust and heat insulation.
医用防护服需要能隔离病菌、有害超细粉尘、酸性溶液等。
Medical protective clothing needs to be able to isolate germs, harmful ultrafine dust, acid solution and so on.
妈妈群的群友们看到他这个样子，特别心疼，要求一起出钱给林医生买最好的医用防护服。
His mother's group of friends saw him like this, especially distressed, and asked for money to buy the best medical protective clothing for Dr. Lin.
我们成功从美国采购了200套杜邦800防护服，打算直接送到他们医院。
We have successfully procured 200 DuPont 800 suits from the United States for direct delivery to their hospitals.
杜邦800，属于顶级防护。
DuPont 800. Top level protection.
因为疫情，价格也水涨船高。
Prices have also risen because of the epidemic.
寄回国内的运费，是一位素不相识的美国华人大哥出的。
The shipment back home was made by an unknown Chinese American elder brother.
因为运费太贵，当时我们在苦苦寻找免费物流。
We were struggling to find free logistics because the freight was too expensive.
这位大哥从朋友那里听说之后，拍着胸脯说，这要寄最靠谱的物流，保证送到医生的手上。
The elder brother heard from the friend, patted the chest said, this is the most reliable logistics, to ensure that the hands of the doctor.
然后自己包下了8000块的运费。
Then he chartered his own freight of 8000 dollars.
1月31日，我第二次见到林医生。
On January 31, I saw Dr. Lin for the second time.
那天天气晴朗，太阳出来了。
It was a fine day and the sun came out.
我跟他说，湖北的妈妈群群友宠你啊，给你采购了杜邦800。
I told him, Hubei's mother group of friends spoil you ah, procurement for you DuPont 800.
他一下愣住了，惊讶到红了眼睛。
He was stunned, his eyes flushed with surprise.
然后很不好意思的低头笑了，说这么高级的防护服，还没有穿过呢。
Then very embarrassed bow smile, said so advanced protective clothing, has not been worn.
我大笑，对他说，你加油呀。
I laughed and said to him, Come on.
那天，我是要替一位北京群友，转交给林医生一批护目镜。
That day, I would like to replace a group of friends in Beijing, handed over to Dr. Lin a batch of goggles.
同一批捐赠来的护目镜还分给了另外5家发热隔离医院的一线科室，一共200个。
The same donated goggles were also distributed to the front-line departments of five other thermal isolation hospitals, totalling 200 units.
我说，我给你拍一张拿着护目镜的照片吧。
I said, let me take a picture of you with the goggles.
他一下乐了，拉下了口罩，说这样别人就知道是我本人了。
He is happy for a moment, pulled down mask, say so others will know it is me.
拍的时候我蹲了下来，说这样拍照显得他高。
I squatted down while filming, saying it made him look tall.
他笑得特别开心。
He had a wonderful laugh.
△ 抱着北京朋友捐赠的护目镜，林医生笑得很可爱林医生的夜班工作时间，是晚八点到早八点，12个小时。
Taking the goggles donated by Beijing friends, Dr Lin smiled cuteously. The night shift is from 8: 00 pm to 8: 00 am, 12 hours.
他在微博里说，也会担心自己倒下：「我如果倒下了，妻儿、父母怎么办？」但紧接着又说，「该来的总会来，那就像个爷们儿一样干死这该死的病毒吧！！！」他转身走了几步，忽然回头鞠了个躬1月30号，妈妈群里一位医生说，原本已经回了老家，医院紧急通知她回武汉支援。
"If I fall, my wife and children, my parents will do?" But then he said, "If I fall down, my wife and children, my parents?" But then he said, "He turned around and bowed a little.
「只有保护好了大家，才能守护小家。
"Only when we are well protected can we protect the family.
有召必回。
There is a call to return.
」她说。
'she said.
聊到这里，我一下就哭了。
When I got to this point, I cried.
△ 我们当时的聊天记录同样因为医院缺物资，她也向我发出了求助。
Our chat record was the same because the hospital was short of supplies and she sent me a request for help.
当时我手里还有一部分北京妈妈捐赠的护目镜。
I still had some goggles donated by my mother in Beijing.
他们派了一位熊医生找我来取。
They sent a Dr. Bear to me to get it.
那天天气也不错。
It was a fine day, too.
下午3点左右，熊医生先到了。
At about 3 p.m., Dr. Bear arrived first.
我因为一些事情，耽误了半个小时，特别过意不去。
I'm sorry I lost half an hour because of something.
出门时我赶紧把孩子交给奶奶，顺手拿了一瓶农夫山泉的维他命水。
When I went out, I handed the baby over to my grandma and picked up a bottle of the vitamin water from Nongfu Mountain.
到了楼下，我看到他身子站得直直的，旁边还有一个盒马的外卖小哥。
When I got downstairs, I saw him standing up straight with a box-horse takeout next to him.
他穿了一件黄色和灰色相间的防风衣，戴着眼镜，看起来似乎有点失神。
He was wearing a yellow and grey windbreaker and glasses, and looked a little distracted.
大概也是因为疲惫。
Probably because of fatigue.
我想把手里的饮料塞给他，他一直摆手说不要，你们自己留着。
I tried to shovel him my drink, and he kept it for himself, waving no.
我说没事的，你们医护辛苦了，他才收下。
I said it was okay. He took it after all your medical care.
30个护目镜交给他时，他不停说谢谢，谢谢。
Thirty goggles were handed over to him and he kept saying thank you. Thank you.
转身走了几步之后，他突然回过头，对我鞠了一个90度的躬。
After turning a few steps, he suddenly turned round and bowed 90 degrees to me.
我赶紧摆手说使不得。
I shook my hand quickly.
熊医生有点激动，说感激你们这些好心人，我们一起加油。
Dr. Bear got a little excited and said he was grateful to you good people. Let's cheer up.
其实我这几年经历了很多事情，已经很久没流过眼泪了。
In fact, I have experienced a lot of things in recent years, has not shed tears for a long time.
但是这一刻，我又不争气的哭了。
But at this moment, I did not want to cry.
她在呼吸重症科，最后一个N95已经用了一天一夜1月27日晚上8点半，我得知武汉中心医院后湖院区的刘医生急需口罩。
She is breathing intensive care unit, the last N95 has spent a day and night January 27, 8: 30 p.m., I learned that Wuhan Central Hospital Houhu District Dr. Liu urgently needed a mask.
当时，中心医院已经调整成发热隔离医院，刘医生是呼吸重症科的主任医师，接管了三个病区，但已经只剩最后一个N95。
At the time, the central hospital had been converted into a fever isolation hospital, and Dr. Liu, director of Respiratory Intensive Care, took over three of the wards, but only the last N95 was left.
就这一个N95，她已经用了一天一夜。
On this one, N95, she had spent a day and a night.
△ 我的另一位护士朋友。
My other nurse friend?
摘掉N95口罩后，她们的脸上都会留下深深的压痕。
After taking off the N95 mask, they will have deep pressure marks on their faces.
我当时手里没有N95，就立刻在妈妈群里求助。
I didn't have N95 in my hand, so I immediately asked my mother for help.
非常幸运的是，旁边小区一位妈妈，刚刚到货一盒N95。
Luckily, a mother in the neighborhood had just arrived with a box of N95.
她让我替她交给刘医生。
She asked me to deliver her to Dr. Liu.
9点，我取到口罩，给刘医生打了电话。
At 9: 00, I got my mask and phoned Dr. Liu.
她非常感动，说这么晚了，不要过去，明天联系。
She was very moved to say that so late, do not go over, contact tomorrow.
第二天下午，我步行去中心医院。
The next afternoon I walked to the Central Hospital.
那天风好大，好冷。
It was windy and cold that day.
路上20多分钟，风吹得手和耳朵像被刀割一样。
On the road for more than 20 minutes, the wind made his hands and ears cut like a knife.
中间我手机还停机了。
In the middle my cell phone is dead.
走了很远碰见一对情侣，才寻求到了帮助。
After walking a long way to meet a couple, they asked for help.
那天发热门诊门口，排了很长很长的队，一直到马路边，人群中有阵阵咳嗽。
At the door of the fever clinic that day, there was a long line of coughing people as far as the roadside.
△ 1月31日，武汉协和医院发热门诊的门口 / 澎湃新闻我有意绕了好大一圈，远离人群走到医院门口。
January 31, Wuhan Concorde Hospital Fever Clinic door / surging news I deliberately circled around, away from the crowd to the hospital entrance.
刘医生当时正好在门口接网友捐的600个护目镜。
Dr. Liu was just at the door to receive the donation of 600 goggles.
我把口罩交给她，告诉她这是武汉一位妈妈送她的。
I gave her a mask and told her it had been given to her by a Wuhan mother.
然后跟她一起感慨了一下网友的神通广大。
And then with her lament about the vast power of the netizens.
刘医生不停的说感谢，眼神很温柔。
Dr. Liu kept saying thank you and his eyes were soft.
我只有一句您好好保护自己，表达我当时的心情。
I have but one sentence for you to protect yourself and express my feelings at that time.
△ 刘医生收到了口罩我想，在这种时期，特别是在一个普通人生命受到威胁的时候，人们对医生的需求，甚至会超过对家属的依赖。
Dr. Liu has received a mask and I think that during this period, especially when the life of an ordinary person is threatened, there is a greater need for doctors than for dependents.
医生们不断透支自己，满足我们的需求，我们最不愿看到的就是医生在岗位上倒下。
Doctors continue to overdraw themselves to meet our needs, and the last thing we want is for doctors to fall at their posts.
可事实无法回避。
But the facts cannot be avoided.
他们还是「倒下」了1月24日，我从一个好朋友那里，得知了周医生「倒下」的消息。
They Still "Fallen" On January 24, I learned from a good friend that Dr. Chou had "fallen down."
她是我们共同的朋友。
She is our common friend.
当时，她已经感染新冠肺炎一周了，在家隔离。
She had been infected with pneumonia for a week and was isolated at home.
她原本负责给疑似病人拍CT。
She was supposed to take a CT scan of the suspect.
连续工作36小时后，她开始出现高热、呼吸急促、浑身酸痛的症状。
After 36 hours of continuous work, she began to experience high fever, shortness of breath and soreness all over her body.
她所在的科室，只有普通的医用外科口罩，没有护目镜，只有一件防护服，大家只能消毒之后轮换着穿。
Her department, only ordinary medical surgical masks, no goggles, only a protective clothing, we can only disinfect after rotation.
和她一起感染的，是她的丈夫。
It was her husband who was infected with her.
朋友每天在家里担心到大哭，但能做的也只是给他们送些菜过去。
Friends worry about crying at home every day, but all they can do is bring them some food.
现在，周医生的丈夫已经痊愈，她还没能好起来。
Now that Dr. Zhou's husband has recovered, she has not recovered.
另一位「倒下」的医生叫李华。
Another "fallen" doctor was named Li Hua.
是协和武汉红十字会医院感染科负责人。
Is the director of infection department of Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
1月25日，有朋友向我求助，说李华医生急需口罩。
On January 25, a friend asked me for help, saying that Dr. Li Hua urgently needed a mask.
当时，他已经感染，被送进了隔离病房。
At the time, he was infected and taken to the isolation ward.
我只有自己买的58个N90，全部送给了他。
All I had was 58 N90 I bought myself, and I gave it all to him.
另外还有100个医用外科口罩。
There are also 100 medical surgical masks.
那58个N90，他拿到之后还分给他同事挺多，自己只留了20个，撑了20天。
The 58 N90, he got it and gave it to his co-workers a lot, and he kept 20 of them for 20 days.
当时替他来找我拿口罩的，是另一位医生，姓秦。
It was another doctor, named Qin, who had come to fetch me a mask.
见到他那天，下着小雨，冷风一丝丝窜进脖子里。
The day I saw him, it was raining, and the cold wind was rushing into his neck.
秦医生穿着一身防护服来的，从头到脚都裹严实了。
Doctor Qin came wearing a suit of protective clothing, wrapped from head to foot.
说回去再消毒，没多的，不敢脱。
Say go back again disinfect, not much, dare not take off.
△ 秦医生接过口罩之后，我给他拍了张背影后来，封面新闻报道了李华医生的经历——被感染前，他平均每天要接诊60个以上的发热病人。
After Dr.?? Qin took the mask, I took a photo of him. Later, the cover story reported Dr. Li Hua's experience that before he became infected, he treated an average of more than 60 febrile patients per day.
然而刚开始的一段时间，李华和同事手里并没有N95口罩，也没有达标的防护服。
For a while, however, Li and his colleagues did not have N95 masks and did not have the required protective clothing.
他们只能戴着两个普通的外科口罩，穿着可以洗干净后重复使用的隔离衣面对病人。
They had to wear only two ordinary surgical masks and were able to face patients in protective clothing that could be washed and re-used.
而这样的防护等级，还是整个医院里最高的级别。
This level of protection is the highest in the whole hospital.
1月10日以后，来看病的发热病人开始增多，每天超过上百人。
After 10 January, the number of febrile patients coming to see a doctor began to increase, exceeding 100 per day.
急诊、呼吸内科、感染科被挤得满满当当。
The emergency department, the respiratory department and the infection department were packed to capacity.
1月15日左右，更是呈井喷状。
Around 15 January, it was well blown out.
急诊科副主任的急诊病房里，「床上躺着病人，地上打着地铺睡着病人，过道上堆满了病人，上个厕所都要小心，以防踩到地上的病人。
In the emergency ward of the deputy director of the emergency department, "there were patients lying on the bed, sleeping on the floor with their beds, the hallway was full of patients, and every toilet had to be careful not to step on the ground."
」△ 武汉协和红十字会医院隔离病房22日，李华开始觉得胸闷，头晕。
"Wuhan Concorde Red Cross Hospital isolation ward 22, Li Hua began to feel chest tightness, dizziness.
但他以为是因为连续工作，没休息好，并没在意。
But he thought he didn't have a good rest because he worked continuously and didn't care.
护士给他输了一瓶葡萄糖后，他又站起来继续接诊。
After the nurse had given him a bottle of glucose, he got up and went on with his treatment.
23日，他做了CT检查，结果让他大吃一惊，「肺部图显示，就是疑似新冠状病毒感染的肺炎啊！」△ 李华医生24日，李华倒下，被送进了隔离病房。
"The lung diagram shows pneumonia with a suspected new coronavirus infection," Li Hua fell on Thursday and was taken to the isolation ward.
住院期间，他还参加了医院的远程医疗队，在网上为患者提供视频诊疗服务。
While in hospital, he also participated in the hospital's telemedicine unit, providing video services to patients online.
心里想的还是，「出院就马上请求回去上班啊。
I was thinking, "Get out of the hospital and ask to go back to work.
」疫情面前，我们唯一能做的，只能是把一切都扛下来。
"The only thing we can do in the face of the epidemic is to carry everything down.
尽管谁都扛不住。
Even though no one can carry it.
我们武汉的作家方方，最近发了篇文章，里面写道：「以前我曾经说，时代的一粒灰，落在个人头上，就是一座山。
We, Wuhan writer Fang Fang, have recently published an article which reads: "I said before that a speck of the age falls on a man, a mountain.
说这话时，体会还不深。
When he said this, he knew not yet.
这一次，才真正让我铭心刻骨。
This time, only then truly let me be engraved.
」这段经历，在我的人生里，也一定是铭心刻骨的一段。
"This experience, in my life, must also be an unforgettable paragraph.
我只希望，这些医生能被更多人看到，记住。
I just hope these doctors can be seen by more people, remember.
田静后记：宸宸跟我讲这些医生的时候，语气一直有点急促。
Tian Jing postscript: Chen Chen and I talk to these doctors, the tone has been a bit short.
她是真的替他们担心。
She was really worried about them.
她做志愿者的工作，其实也挺危险。
Her work as a volunteer can be dangerous.
因为经常会直接接触防疫一线的医生。
Because often have direct contact with the first line of vaccination doctors.
她的家里也有年幼的孩子。
Her family also has young children.
我问她，你会很害怕自己也被感染吗？她回答说，「我没想过这个问题。
I asked her if you were afraid you'd be infected, too? "I didn't think about that," she replied.
」「我更怕的是，那些被感染的病人，最后会因为得不到妥善安置变得绝望，怕有人会因此放弃生命。
"What I fear even more is that infected patients will eventually become desperate if they are not properly resettled for fear that someone will give up their lives.
怕有人会走极端，报复社会，伤害无辜的人。
I am afraid that someone will go to extremes to avenge society and hurt innocent people.
这才是我最焦虑的。
That's what worries me the most.
」△ 美丽的宸宸前两天她跟我说，「说实话，这两天我有点心理崩塌。
"The Chen of beautiful Chen two days before she says to me," To tell the truth, these two days I a little psychological collapse.
因为看了网上流传的有人自杀的消息。
Because saw the spread of suicide on the Internet news.
隔着屏幕都能感受那种绝望，无力。
across the screen can feel that kind of despair, powerless.
我们只是幸运的活着而已。
We're just lucky to be alive.
」我建议她，如果扛不住，可以考虑找心理疏导聊聊，希望她一切都好。
"I suggested that if she couldn't carry it, she might want to talk to a counselor and hope everything was okay with her.
在她身上，我还看到一些武汉人身上的「匪气」。
In her body, I also saw some Wuhan people on the "gangster."
直言不讳，敢想敢说。
To be outspoken and outspoken.
她的朋友圈里，有次聊「理想主义者」——△ 宸宸的朋友圈「不要习惯了黑暗就为黑暗辩护，不要为自己的苟且洋洋得意，不要嘲讽那些比自己更勇敢热情的人。
In her circle of friends, she once talked about the "idealist" -- the friend circle of A Chen Chen. "Don't get used to the darkness and justify the darkness, don't be complacent about your own life, don't ridicule those who are braver and more enthusiastic than yourself."
」她认为自己能做的不多，但也是一种对理想主义的坚持。
"She didn't think she could do much, but she was a stickler for idealism.
目前，武汉有几万青年志愿者在疫情前线奔忙。
At present, Wuhan has tens of thousands of young volunteers in the front line of the epidemic.
大家纯粹都是自愿服务，以微信群的方式组织起来，做什么的都有——组织物资捐赠、救助留守宠物、协助市政热线、接送医护人员……在封城的武汉，他们也是最美的逆行者。
They are all purely voluntary, organized in a micro-community and doing everything from organizing material donations to saving pets left behind to helping municipal hotlines and transporting medical workers to and from Wuhan, the capital, where they are also the most beautiful rebels.
希望这一次，他们都能被记得。
Hopefully, this time, they will all be remembered.
希望这一疫之后，人们对医生的善意、人与人之间的善意，都能更多一些。
Hopefully, after the epidemic, there will be more goodwill towards doctors and goodwill between people.
「该来的总会来，我们一起干死这该死的病毒吧。
"He who comes will come, and we will die together of this damned virus.
」致敬所有挺身而出的凡人们。
"Tribute to all those who stood up.
愿他们都平安。
May they all be well.
（注：文中部分人物为化名）为中国女性安全 提供专业解决方案▬▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬●▬ ▬ ▬ ▬ ▬▬女 孩 别 怕未经授权 禁止转载欢迎分享到朋友圈。
Chinese women do not want to share the world of friends with their children. Chinese women do not want to share with their friends and children without permission.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉协和医生：我从没穿过这么贵的防护服。
Dr. Wuhan Concorde: I've never worn such expensive protective clothing.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girls.
var msg_title = "武汉协和医生：我从没穿过这么贵的防护服";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "志愿者眼中的武汉医生们。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan doctors in the eyes of volunteers.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="女孩别怕";。
; [Don't be afraid of & quot; girl.
