“灯下黑”：武汉周边的疫情危机。
"Under the light black": the epidemic crisis around Wuhan.
刘畅   王梓辉。
Liu Chang Wang Zihui.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
记者 | 刘畅 王梓辉年轻人与老年人的两重世界“我所在的镇距离武汉开车只要两个小时，武汉夜里凌晨两点多宣布封城，我们镇上有人夜里就开车回来了。
My town is only two hours away from Wuhan, which was declared closed at 2: 00 in the morning. Someone from my town drove back at night.
”家住在武汉西边荆州监利县网市镇的蔡姗发现，在武汉肺炎疫情开始上涨的1月20日前后，家乡的春运大潮也已来临。
Cai Shan, who lives in Wuhan's western Jingzhou prison-county net town, has found that the spring rush from her hometown has arrived around January 20, when the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan began to rise.
资料显示，武汉周边返乡的城市里，荆州排名第三，占到7.62%，反映到蔡姗的身边，在这个平均三四万人口的小镇，她就有100多位朋友从那时陆续回家。
The data show that among the cities returning home around Wuhan, Jingzhou ranks third, accounting for 7.62 percent, and is reflected in Cai Shan's side, where more than 100 of her friends have been returning home from a small town of 30,000 or 40,000.
1月23日10点起，武汉“封城”（远征 摄）那时武汉市的肺炎人数已日日增多，紧张的气氛在年轻人之中蔓延。
From 10: 00 on January 23, Wuhan "closed the city" (expedition photo) by that time Wuhan has been increasing the number of pneumonia, the atmosphere of tension among young people spread.
回乡的人大多自我隔离，蔡姗见邻居回乡后就没出过门，她在街上也看到，回乡的年轻人普遍戴着口罩，相互注意的提醒在彼此的微信群里传播，老年人却仍仿佛生活在另一重世界。
When Cai Shang saw her neighbors returning home, she saw them in the street. They were wearing masks. The warning of mutual attention spread through each other's messages, but they still seemed to live in another world.
“前一天家里商量好，需要的年货列出清单，由我单独去买，第二天一早起床却发现家里的老人已经相约去庙会了，发现庙会停了，他们才自己返回家来。
I went to buy it alone. When I got up the next morning, I found that the old people at home had already gone to the temple fair.
”没有挨家挨户的通知和针对返乡人员的检查，也没有街面上的消毒，蔡姗和她的朋友只能依靠自己的力量改变家中长辈的态度。
"Without door-to-door announcements, house-to-house inspections and no street-level disinfection, Cai and her friends have had to rely on their own efforts to change the attitudes of their elders.
蔡姗元旦时去过一趟武汉，那时已有肺炎病例，她买了口罩戴上，又带了两袋口罩回家，即使那时在武汉戴口罩也属“异类”，家中的长辈更是听不进劝，直到发现从武汉返乡的人越来越多，她不断向家人报告疫情的发展，家人才“妥协”。
"Cai Shan went to Wuhan on New Year's Day and had pneumonia cases. She bought a mask and went home with two bags of masks. Even then, Wuhan wearing a mask was considered" alien "and her elders would not listen until she found that more and more people were returning home from Wuhan.
“超市里的老人戴口罩还多些，菜市场里戴口罩的老人则寥寥无几，尤其是那些孩子没在家的独居老人。
"There are more masks in the supermarket, but few elderly people wear masks in the market, especially the elderly who live alone and do not have children at home.
”武汉周边地区地图类似的情况在武汉周边的城市十分普遍。
A similar situation prevails in the cities surrounding Wuhan.
恩施土家族苗族自治州作为湖北省最西部的地市，1月24日零点，恩施州宣布暂停恩施州城区公交营运，同时也暂停了室内公共文化娱乐设施及室内体育运动场等场所的营业，并暂停A级景区对外开放。
Enshi Miao Autonomous Prefecture As the westernmost city of Hubei Province, Enshi Prefecture suspended the operation of public transport in Enshi Prefecture on January 24, while also suspending operations in places such as indoor public cultural and recreational facilities and indoor sports venues, as well as the opening of Scenic Area A
李玉1月19号从武汉回到了家乡恩施，一下火车后，她没有在火车站看到有温度检测的程序和设备。
Li Yu returned to her hometown of Enshi on January 19th from Wuhan. As soon as she got off the train, she did not see the procedures and equipment for temperature testing at the railway station.
回家后，李玉有意识进行了简单的自我隔离，除了回家后的第1天去了外公外婆和爷爷奶奶家，最近几天都没怎么出门。
After returning home, Li Yu consciously carried out a simple self-isolation, except for the first day after returning home to visit grandparents and grandparents, the last few days have not gone out much.
但在长辈们看来，大家都觉得是她把这个事情想得太严重了，“就觉得有点小题大做”，李玉说。
But in the eyes of her elders, everyone thought she was taking the matter too seriously. "It was just a fuss," Li said.
她印象最深的是她的小姨，“我19号回来的，但我21号见到她的时候，跟她讲疫情的严重情况，她都说她还不知道有这个事情。
What impressed her most was her aunt. "I came back on the 19th, but when I saw her on the 21st, I told her about the severity of the outbreak.
”“他们会觉得反正这里是‘乡下’，没必要这么紧张，以前非典我们这里都没事，现在怎么会有事？”长辈们面对疫情轻忽的状况让平时在北京工作的李玉精神压力很大，她告诉我说，可能是出现的负面消息太多，她昨天感觉特别害怕，情绪就有点崩溃，在家哭了一场。
"They think it's the countryside anyway, there's no need to be so nervous. We've all been fine here before, but how's it going to work now?" Elders faced with the fluidity of the epidemic put Li Yu, who works in Beijing, under great stress.
而即使是这样，她的父亲还是会觉得她把这个事情想得太严重了。
Even so, her father would have felt that she had taken the matter too seriously.
还好，因为她一直“强硬”的态度，今天大年三十，他们一家人本来应该去爷爷奶奶家团圆的，父母同意尊重她的态度，选择了待在家里面，一家三口过这个年。
Fortunately, because she has been "tough" attitude, today's New Year's Eve, their family should have gone to her grandparents reunion, parents agreed to respect her attitude, chose to stay at home, the family three live this year.
物资短缺相比蔡姗和家人没有收到疫情的警示，黄冈作为武汉市周边返乡目的地人口最多的城市，黄冈市毗邻武汉的县城自1月22日开始繁忙起来。
The shortage alerted Cai Shan and his family to the outbreak, and Huanggang, the most populous city to return to its destination around Wuhan, has been busy since January 22.
“当时已临近放假，大家本来已轮流上班。
"It was almost time for a holiday and everyone had already gone to work on rotation.
21号虽然组织了一次对农贸市场的巡查，却没有说与病毒有关。
21 although organized a farmer's market inspection, but did not say that the virus is related.
但22日镇上的书记从县里开完会后给我们开会，公布了县里感染病例的情况后，大家认识到疫情的严重性。
But on the 22nd, after the town secretary met with us from the county meeting and made public the case of infection in the county, everyone realized the seriousness of the outbreak.
我们发了一个‘告居民的一封信’，要求每个村书记分发到位，同时统计返乡人数，并且每日排查。
We sent a 'letter to the residents', asking each village secretary to distribute it, and counting the number of people returning home and checking them daily.
县里的企业也都要求放假。
The enterprises in the county also asked for a holiday.
”在黄冈市下某镇工作的张芸向本刊透露，昨天黄冈紧随武汉封城的消息后，也宣布封城，他们便在通往武汉的高速公路和交接的村庄设卡。
Zhang Yun, who works in a town in Huanggang, told the magazine yesterday that Huang Gang had followed the news of the city's closure and set up roadblocks on the expressway to Wuhan and the villages where it joins.
但张芸和同事们在走访返乡人口过程中，意识到疫情的严重，更恍然发现防疫物资的缺乏。
But in the course of visiting the returning population, Zhang Yun and his colleagues realized the severity of the outbreak and noticed a shortage of epidemic prevention materials.
“本镇的返乡人数有数千人，其中已经确诊两例。
"There are thousands of returnees in this town, two of whom have been diagnosed.
全县已有100多名疑似病例，10余人基本确诊。
The county has more than 100 suspected cases, more than 10 basic diagnosis.
患病的人害怕去医院，大多躲在家里，被感染的病人中，有一位已经烧得走不动路了。
The sick are afraid to go to the hospital, mostly hiding at home, and one of the infected patients is already too hot to walk.
”她和同事们作为政府工作人员，不仅需要每日挨家挨户巡查，同时也面临设卡时检查外来车辆的任务，而她所在的镇政府没有测体温的仪器，口罩更是少之又少，“我们向卫生院、医院要口罩都很困难，隔壁县昨晚甚至发生了病人抢医生防护服的事”。
She and her colleagues, as government workers, not only go door-to-door on a daily basis, but also face the task of checking outside vehicles when setting up checkpoints.
类似物资短缺的问题发生在武汉周边各个城市中的各个层面。
The shortage of similar materials occurred at all levels in the cities surrounding Wuhan.
恩施的李玉在1月19号回家当天，就趁还有货在网上买了口罩，但是口罩一直没有发货。
Enshi's Li Yu returned home on January 19 and bought a mask while it was still on the Internet, but the mask was never delivered.
于是她妈妈第二天就去药店里买，逛了7、8个药店，都说没有口罩了，要第二天中午才有。
So her mother went to the drugstore the next day to buy, visited 7 or 8 pharmacies, said no mask, the next day only at noon.
21号早上，李玉的妈妈又去买口罩，“她大概早上10点多出门去买口罩，那家药店说早上进了4000个一次性医用口罩，但是大概10多分钟就被抢光了，其中有一个人直接买了1000个口罩”。
On the morning of the 21st, Li Yu's mother went to buy a mask again. "She went out about 10: 00 in the morning to buy a mask.
当时店里还有3M的带过滤芯的防护口罩，但这种“高级”口罩当时的价格已经涨了上去，要50块钱一个。
The store also had a 3-M filter-core mask, but the "premium" mask had gone up at the time for $50 a mask.
李玉的妈妈那天早上不得已花了150块钱买了三只口罩回了家。
Li Yu's mother had to spend 150 yuan that morning to buy three masks and went home.
在蔡姗所在的荆州，虽然镇医院的病人不多。
In Jingzhou, where Cai Shan is based, there are not many patients in the town hospital.
但镇医院的口罩有限制措施，一线的医护人员告诉本刊，“我们每天发一包普通的医用口罩，但不是接触发热病人时，只能戴一层，上发热门诊戴两层，夜班也戴两层。
However, the town hospital mask restrictions, front-line medical staff told the print, "we issued a bag of ordinary medical masks every day, but not contact fever patients, can only wear a layer, heating clinic wearing two layers, night shift wearing two.
全院没有N95口罩，也没有防护服。
The hospital has no N95 masks and no protective clothing.
”而在全湖北距离武汉最近的孝感，孝感人张春的父亲是孝感当地某三甲医院的急诊科主任，目前已被通知春节无休。
"And in the whole of Hubei from Wuhan's recent sense of filial piety, touching Zhang Chun's father is filial sense of a local hospital emergency department director, has been notified that the Spring Festival.
她告诉本刊，上个星期的时候，她父亲所在的医院才开始组建临时的发热门诊，由他父亲负责相关事宜，当时她还提醒她父亲要穿戴好防护服和口罩什么的，但医院只有普通的医用外科口罩，直到现在都没有配备防护服和护目镜这些保护的工具。
She told the magazine last week that her father's hospital had started setting up a makeshift fever clinic, and had reminded her father to wear protective clothing and masks, but that the hospital only had regular medical surgical masks, which until now were not equipped with the protective tools of protective clothing and goggles.
“就连N95的口罩和护目镜也是我们自己在网上抢到的。
"Even N95 masks and goggles were caught online by ourselves.
”张春说，基层的医疗准备工作开展得太晚。
"Medical preparations at the grassroots level are proceeding too late," Zhang said.
当时孝感这边接到通知，她父亲的医院才去采购，而整个医院在一星期内已经爆满，“一直说可能只用一个星期就能到，现在还没到”。
Filial piety at the time was notified that her father's hospital had gone shopping, and the hospital was full within a week, "always said it might take only a week, but it's not here yet."
检验和医疗设备同样存在巨大缺口。
There is also a huge gap in testing and medical equipment.
根据孝感市官方发布的数据，1月22日24时，孝感全市发热门诊共接待发热病人1200例，而今天上午才首次确诊病例22例。
Feeling Feeling Fever Out-patient Clinic received 1,200 cases of febrile patients on January 22 at 2400 hours, up from 22 cases confirmed this morning, according to filial piety city officials.
张春说，这22例是因为把采集的病情样本送到了武汉，才确定下来是新型冠状病毒感染，而其他的病例因为缺少试剂盒，所以不能确诊。
Zhang said the 22 cases were sent to Wuhan to confirm the coronavirus infection, while other cases could not be confirmed because of the lack of kits.
面对这种情况，医生们只能依靠自己的经验。
Faced with this situation, doctors have to rely on their own experience.
这一周多以来，张春的父亲每天都要接触很多的发热病人，其中有一位让他觉得疑似就是新型冠状病毒感染，但他也没办法确定，只能把这位病人再转到其他医院去。
Zhang's father has been in contact with a number of hot patients every day for more than a week, and one of them made him think it was a new coronavirus infection, but he could not confirm that he had to transfer the patient to another hospital.
而在张芸所在的县里，甚至没有对疑难杂症的应对能力。
And in the county where Zhang Yun is located, there is not even the ability to cope with incurable diseases.
“我们的县里目前没有检测病毒用的离心机，目前确诊的都只是‘基本确诊’，据说离心机明天才到。
"There are no centrifuges in our county to detect the virus. All that has been confirmed is a 'basic diagnosis,' said the centrifuge will not arrive until tomorrow.
”张芸告诉我，县里开会说，因为目前往武汉送病人已经无用，又没有治疗办法，“所以治疗措施都是保守治疗，然后再打电话向市里、省里问办法”。
"Zhang Yun told me that the county meeting said that because it was no longer useful to send patients to Wuhan, there was no treatment," so the treatment measures are conservative treatment, and then call the city, provincial methods.
（文中人物皆为化名）请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the line of the epidemic # 1 Ongoing All-Stories in Three Lives Weekly are now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“灯下黑”：武汉周边的疫情危机。
"Under the light black": the epidemic crisis around Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“灯下黑”：武汉周边的疫情危机";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; around Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "回乡的年轻人普遍戴着口罩，相互注意的提醒在彼此的微信群里传播，老年人却仍仿佛生活在另一重世界。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Young people returning home often wear masks, and reminders of attention spread through each other's mailboxes, while seniors continue to live in a different world.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
