武汉城里的幸存者：躲着疾病，算着未来丨人间。
Survivors in Wuhan: Hiding from disease, counting the future.
南山秋。
Nanshan autumn.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
如果学校一直用网课教学，而家长需要回武汉返工，怎么放心留一个10岁左右的孩子单独在家？远程教学，老师如何能根据孩子们对课程内容的掌握情况来及时调整教学进度？……很多问题，眼下都没有答案。
If the school has been teaching online and parents need to go back to Wuhan to rework, how can we leave a 10-year-old at home alone? Distance-learning, how can teachers adjust the teaching schedule according to the children's knowledge of the content of the lessons?
配图 | VCG前  言__这是一场战争，在新年的伊始，爆发在每一个普通的、平凡的中国人身边。
VCG Preface _ _ This is a war that begins at the beginning of a new year with every ordinary, ordinary Chinese.
这是我们的战争，我们热切地讨论、谨慎地分析，为灾难中陨落的生命而痛惜，为医者大无畏的精神所感动，为我们能为之所做的点滴小事而不懈努力。
This is our war, and we enthusiastically discussed, carefully analyzed, lamented the loss of life in the disaster, moved by the fearless spirit of the healer, and worked tirelessly for the little things we could do for it.
人生海海，我们且行且惜。
Life is a sea, and we cherish it.
网易人间「我们的战争」特辑，讲述每一天，我们与疫情赤膊相见。
The Netease World "Our War" feature tells us about each day and we are not exposed to the epidemic.
我们的战争丨连载091月24日除夕，在武汉本地一家培训学校任职的小林在忐忑的等待中，迎来了学校的通知：“机构将全面上线网络授课系统，未上完的寒假课和之后的春季课将改为在线完成。
With fear, Kobayashi, who works at a local training school in Wuhan on New Year's Eve, greeted the school's announcement: "Institutions will be fully online, with unfinished winter holidays and subsequent spring classes completed online.
请各位老师尽快完成准备工作。
Please finish the preparatory work as soon as possible.
”这个结果并没有太出乎她的意料。
The result was not so unexpected.
4天前，教育局紧急通知所有的教育机构停课，小林给学生们上到一半的课，就这么停了。
Four days ago, the Education Bureau issued an urgent notice to all educational institutions to suspend classes. Xiao Lin stopped giving half his classes to his students.
停课前几天，已经陆续有家长向老师们询问“会不会停课”，她只能略带为难地回复，“这个要看校区统一安排。
A few days before the class was suspended, parents were already asking their teachers if they would stop classes, and she replied with some hesitation, "It depends on the arrangements made by the school district.
”然后鼓励家长们“再坚持几天”，“年前的课，就剩最后一两个课时了”。
Parents were then encouraged to "stick it out for a few more days," with "the last class or two left in the year before."
学生小海的妈妈安妮，当时找到了管教务的周老师，想给儿子请假。
Student Xiao Hai's mother Anne, then found the teacher in charge of teaching, want to leave his son.
小林还和周老师一起劝过她“不要停课”，因为上课的体系是连贯的，孩子如果中断了，之后再来就容易跟不上。
Kobayashi and Zhou also advised her to "not to stop classes," because the system is coherent, if the children interrupt, it will be easy to follow.
安妮点点头表示赞同，但仍忧心忡忡地说，“现在那个新型肺炎看起来挺严重的”，说完，还是坚持给儿子请了假。
Anne nodded approvingly, but said anxiously, "Now that new pneumonia looks serious," and insisted on giving her son leave.
周老师每天在群里发图，告诉家长们，学校每天都在消毒通风，会在孩子们进教室前查体温，体温异常的孩子不允许进入教室。
Zhou sends pictures in the group every day, telling parents that the school is disinfecting and ventilating every day, checking the children's temperature before they enter the classroom. Children with abnormal body temperature are not allowed into the classroom.
在这样的安抚下，大部分家长安定了下来，鲜有给孩子请假的了——可惜不到10天后，现实就发展得让老师们都后怕。
With such reassurance, most parents settle down and leave little time for their children - but less than 10 days later, reality has developed to such an extent that teachers fear it.
小林略带不安地问过安妮，有没有怪过老师们没有及时停课，安妮就笑了笑：“不怪你们，谁都没想到会变成这样的。
Xiao Lin asked Annie with some uneasiness if she was surprised that the teachers did not stop classes in time. Annie smiled and said, "No, no one expected this to happen.
”这家培训学校在武汉本地小有名气，一直以面授课程为主。
The training school, which has a small local reputation in Wuhan, has been offering face-to-face courses.
小林带的是4年级，正是学业渐紧的阶段，大多数家长都暗暗憋着劲，想着自己的孩子能不能在假期“冲刺”一下，实现笑谈中的“弯道超车”。
Kobayashi is in fourth grade, just as school is getting tighter, and most parents are wondering whether their children will be able to "sprint" during the holidays and overtake the "curve" in their jokes.
小林没有网络授课的经验，有些手足无措，但到了这个时候，也只能赶鸭子上架，紧急学习软件的操作——学校紧急购买了一款远程教育软件的使用权限，组织了学校的IT部门准备应对届时可能出现的网络问题——这让小林和同事们颇为担心，包括“上网课”的效果，还有家长的反馈等等。
Kobayashi has no experience of online instruction, and some are overwhelmed, but by this time the school has had to pull a duck out of a shelf and run emergency learning software - emergency permission to use a distance-education program, organizing the school's IT department to deal with possible cyber problems - worrying Kobayashi and his colleagues, including the effects of "Internet classes" and parental feedback.
对于培训教师而言，除了身为老师的职业操守，学生和家长们的认可也密切关系着工作业绩和教学评级，这是所有老师们最看重的。
For teachers, in addition to their professional ethics as teachers, recognition by students and parents is also closely linked to job performance and teaching ratings, which all teachers value most.
不过，小林此刻还顾不上想那么远，眼下亟需解决的，是自己的上课设备——学校只能让老师们利用手头自有设备去完成直播——现在她在外地的父母家，自己随身带回来的笔记本电脑却连接不上家里的网络，最终只好紧急联系运营商，把手机的流量套餐调到最大，准备届时用手机热点解决联网问题。
However, Kobayashi is not so far away, the immediate need to solve is their own classroom equipment - schools can only use their own equipment to complete live - her parents in the field, brought back their own laptop network, but not the home network, eventually had to contact operators to maximize mobile phone traffic package, ready to use mobile hotspots to solve the problem.
同事张老师则面临更麻烦的问题——她的电脑前几天刚刚坏掉，这个封城时没有离开武汉的外地姑娘，一个人在出租屋里憋了3天，折腾了好久，在几位电脑高手远程指导后，仍然无法进入系统。
Her computer had just broken down a few days ago, and she had not left Wuhan when the city was closed. A man who had been in the rented room for three days and was tossing about for a long time was still unable to access the system after being instructed by several computer gurus remotely.
她终于咬咬牙，做好自认为能做到的一切防备措施后出门了，准备步行40分钟去一个大学同学的家里借一台旧电脑。
She finally gritted her teeth, took all the precautions she thought she could do, and set out on a 40-minute walk to borrow an old computer from a college classmate's house.
她说，“从没想到自己冒着生命危险走那么远，竟然会是为了一台电脑”。
"I never thought I was risking my life to go that far for a computer," she said.
经过1个星期的内部测试，调试无误，1月31日，学校给家长们发出了开始线上授课的通知。
After a week of in-house testing and debugging, the school gave parents notice on Jan. 31 to start teaching online.
从信息发出去的那一刻起，教务周老师的手机就成了一部烫手的热线。
From the moment the message was sent, the teacher's cell phone became a hot line.
家长们的信息如潮水一般涌来：有担心突然转变授课方式孩子不习惯的，有不放心网课教学效果的，有的家长追问，“教材都没有发，怎么上课？”还有的家长则直言不讳，“线下课改成线上课，学费怎么算？”周老师回答得嗓子冒烟，正在心浮气躁、焦头烂额时，儿子又大声哭了起来。
The parents' message came like a flood: children are not used to the sudden change of teaching methods, some parents asked, "textbooks have not been sent, how to teach?" Other parents are outspoken, "online classes changed to classes, tuition how?"
这一天，她从起床起就一直没顾得上照看儿子，此刻儿子怎么都不肯做作业，还和老公吵了起来，周老师像灭火队员一样放下手机赶去劝架安抚。
On this day, she has not been concerned about looking after her son since getting up, now why the son refused to do homework, and her husband quarreled, like fire-extinguishers put down her cell phone and rushed to appease the fight.
不同于其他家长的众多疑问，安妮的诉求很简单，她只是告诉周老师：考虑到线上上课的效果和孩子视力问题，小海就暂不参加网络授课了，至于这些缺席的课，以后是退费、顺延或是补课，等到疫情结束后再讨论吧。
Unlike many other parents, Anne's appeal is simple: considering the effects of online classes and children's eyesight problems, Xiao Hai will not take part in online classes. As for these absent classes, there will be refund, extension or remedial classes until the end of the epidemic.
周老师松了一口气，虽然她也不知道学校对于这样请假的学生会怎么善后，但那都是以后的事情了，起码现在，这样的沟通是她认为轻松的。
Teacher Zhou breathed a sigh of relief, although she did not know how the school for such leave of absence students after the students, but that is all after the event, at least for now, such communication is she thought relaxed.
她很快回复道：“好的，等疫情过后，我们会给家长们一个方案。
She quickly replied, "Okay, after the outbreak, we'll give the parents a plan.
”安妮客气地道谢，最后嘱咐周老师注意安全、好好保重。
"Annie thanked her politely and finally told Zhou to take care of herself safely and carefully.
电话和微信上的消息在晚上10点后终于略微渐渐停息，周老师点开和闺蜜曹老师的对话框——她们上一句的聊天记录，还暂停在周老师早上9点半接到一个家长的来电后。
After 10 p. m., when the phone calls and tweets finally died down a bit, Zhou opened a dialog with her friend Cao, their last chat, and suspended a call from a parent at 9: 30 am.
曹老师是周老师的前同事，讲课受到许多家长追捧后，便离开学校自立门户，开了一家小小的私人“培优”机构。
Cao, a former colleague of Mr. Zhou's, left the school to start his own business after being touted by many parents, and set up a small private "peerbetter" organization.
现在，没法展开线上教学的曹老师也是一筹莫展，她不仅担忧这段停课时间的收入问题，更害怕的是，在她无法授课的时候，不肯停下脚步的家长们，也许就转投到其他能进行线上教学的机构了。
Now, Cao, unable to start online teaching, is at a loss. Not only is she worried about the amount of money she gets when she is cut off from school, but she is even more afraid that parents who refuse to stop when she is unable to teach may turn to other institutions that can teach online.
“我有点后悔离开了。
'I'm a little sorry I left.
”曹老师说。
"said Cao.
为儿子请完假后，安妮稍微感到轻松一点，但也只是一点点而已。
Anne felt a little relaxed after her son's holiday, but only a little.
在她看来，补课班的课程是小事，儿子的学校马上要开始的课程网络教学，才是更让她烦心的。
In her view, the remedial class curriculum is a small matter, her son's school soon to begin the course network teaching, is more disturbing to her.
1月28日，她所在的班级家长群里，儿子的班主任发出通知：“教育局正式出通知了，2月10日开始，中小学开始实行网上授课，请大家提前做好预习，迎接不一样的新学期。
On January 28, in her class, the head teacher of her son's class issued a notice: "The Education Bureau has officially announced that on February 10, primary and secondary schools will offer classes online. Please prepare for the new semester ahead of schedule.
”“这样看来，是要打持久战了。
"So it's going to take a long time.
”安妮扫了一眼通知，内心毫无波澜。
Anne glanced at the notice, but there was no stir in her heart.
群里的家长们异于寻常的安静，安妮暗自思忖着，这么简单的一句话，具体安排都说得不清晰，大概大家想问也都不知从何问起吧。
The parents in the group were unusually quiet. Anne thought to herself that the details of such a simple sentence could not be clearly laid out, and they probably did not know how to ask.
想着想着，安妮和琪琪妈妈私聊起来。
Thinking, Anne and Kiki's mother had a private chat.
琪琪是个乖巧的女孩，儿子的好朋友。
Gigi was a clever girl and a good friend to her son.
不同于小海的没心没肺、成绩忽上忽下，琪琪的学习成绩一直稳居班上前三，这让安妮一直很羡慕琪琪妈妈。
Unlike the small sea of heartless, results up and down, Qiqi's school record has been stable in the top three class, which Anne has always envied Gigi mother.
琪琪一家在武汉封城前就回到了老家，现在一时半会儿也回不来。
The Gigi family went back to their hometown in front of Wuhan Fengcheng, and now they can't go back for a while.
老家屋子里的Wifi信号不稳定，琪琪妈妈很担心，如果到时信号不好、课上得断断续续，纵使女儿再乖，学习效果也会打折扣。
The Wifi signal in her home room is unstable, and Kiki's mother worries that if the signal is bad and the class is off and on, even if the daughter is well-behaved, the results will be compromised.
安妮苦笑——等学校真开始上网课的时候，恐怕让家长们抓狂的不仅仅是自家的Wifi信号，更可能会是学校仓促之间搭建的网课直播平台，承受得起这么多小学生家里的电脑同时在线的流量吗？安妮笑话琪琪妈妈：“学霸妈妈还是不懂我的心。
Anne Smiling - By the time schools do start taking online lessons, I'm afraid it's not just their Wifi signals that drive parents crazy, but a hurriedly built-in webcam that can afford so much on-line traffic in the homes of so many primary schoolsAnnie jokes to Gigi's mother: You still don't understand my heart.
”安妮最担心的，还是网络教学的效果问题。
Anne was most worried about the effectiveness of online teaching.
小海不是没有接触过网课，但对于儿子这个平时上课尚且坐不住的小男孩，上网课时大部分的注意力都放在抢金币、给老师送花这些环节上。
Xiao Hai has not been in touch with the net lessons, but for his son, who can't sit still in class, most of his attention is focused on grabbing gold coins and sending flowers to the teacher.
几次下来，安妮果断给儿子停掉了网课类型的补习班，只留下一门外教口语课，权当是正餐后的甜点。
Several times, Anne decided to give her son to stop the type of remedial classes, leaving only one door to teach spoken language classes, the right after dinner dessert.
这也是为什么她没有丝毫纠结就给儿子的补习班请了假，可是，如果学校的课程也全靠网络，那总不能儿子上课时，她就搬个小板凳坐在旁边一直守着吧？安妮和琪琪妈妈越聊越忧心，还有很多问题都不知道怎么解决：如果学校一直用网课教学，而家长需要回武汉返工，怎么放心留一个10岁左右的孩子单独在家？远程教学，老师如何能根据孩子们对课程内容的掌握情况来及时调整教学进度？新学期的课本、配套练习册都没发，现在家长也没法出门买，让孩子们仅靠电子课件，学习会不会受影响？还有，语文课的课后作业怎么提交？批改也是个问题……两人合计来合计去，聊不出什么答案。
This is why she took leave of absence for her son's cram school without any hassle, but if the school curriculum was entirely web-based, she couldn't go out and sit on a bench.
群里也开始有家长问类似的问题，以往有问必答的班主任，一直没有回复。
The group also began to have parents ask similar questions, in the past asked the class director, has not responded.
琪琪妈妈笑着说：“大概老师现在知道的也不会比我们多。
Kiki's mother smiled and said: "Perhaps the teacher now does not know more than we.
”安妮忧心的还有儿子的眼睛。
"Annie was also worried about her son's eyes.
暑假的时候，小海就查出75度的近视了，安妮多方了解后，给小海配了角膜塑形镜。
Summer vacation, the small sea on the detection of 75 degrees of myopia, Anne multi-party understanding, to the small sea with a corneal plastic mirror.
两片小小的、像隐形眼镜一样的塑料片，就花了1万多。
Two tiny plastic lenses, like contact lenses, cost more than 10, 000.
医生叮嘱，孩子近视度数每增加50度以上，就得更换新的镜片。
Doctors advise that every increase in the degree of nearsightedness of the child more than 50 degrees, it is necessary to replace the new lenses.
安妮心疼得龇牙咧嘴，但为了孩子的视力，也只得大手一挥。
Annie grinned in pain, but she had to wave her big hand for the child's eyesight.
安妮掐指算了一下，如果全天候电脑远程教学，儿子每天至少6小时对着电脑屏幕，一周至少5天，不出一个月，小海的近视肯定会加深，不出意外的话，班上也可能又要多出一群戴眼镜的娃娃。
Annie figured out that if her son were to spend at least six hours a day staring at the computer screen, five days a week and no more than a month, her nearsightedness would surely deepen.
想了想，安妮翻出闲置已久的投影仪，“聊胜于无吧。
Thinking about it, Anne turned out the long-unused projector, "chatted better than nothing.
”她只能安慰自己。
She could only comfort herself.
当安妮忧心忡忡地向丈夫张维絮叨着关于儿子的烦恼时，张维却显得颇为心不在焉。
Zhang Wei seemed rather absent-minded when Anne was talking anxiously to her husband Zhang Wei about her son's troubles.
直到安妮发了火，张维才回过神来。
It was not until Anne got angry that Zhang Wei recovered.
但妻子的烦恼在张维看来，简直太小儿科。
But for Zhang Wei, his wife's troubles are simply too pedantic.
他现在忧心的问题更直接——家里没钱了。
The problem he was worrying about was more immediate - there was no money in the house.
听完丈夫这句话，安妮也傻眼了。
After hearing her husband's words, Anne looked foolish.
虽一向不太爱操心家里的各种花销，但她掰掰指头，也还是算得清楚的：最初买保险时没经验，不知道应该分散开时间，几份保险全都是在2月到3月间签的合同，每年的这个时候，他们都要同时缴4份人寿险和1份车险的费用，总计好几万元；每月的15日是房贷的还款日，要有近8000元的支出；儿子补习班的春季班也马上该缴费了，虽然现在请了假，但估计学校照旧会收学费——孩子已经到小学四年级了，无论如何，疫情之后，课程都是得继续的——缴费，只是为了保住“小班”的名额，也要5位数；还有春节要孝敬双方父母的过年红包……安妮皱着眉头敲计算器的时候，张维不忘凑过来提醒她：10号是信用卡的还款日，上一期的账单是近2万元。
Although she was always less worried about all the household expenses, she broke her fingers: she had no experience when she first bought insurance and didn't know how to split the time.
安妮的脸迅速哭丧起来。
Annie's face broke into a cry.
“年关难过”，往年的这个时候，都是他们夫妻手头最紧的时候，但好在的是每年两人在年底都会各有一笔年终奖到账，虽然奖金常常会被公司拖到2月底才能打进账户，但拼拼凑凑，总还能够。
But the good news is that each year they end up with an annual bonus, which is often held up until the end of February, but it's still possible.
张维提醒她，按今年这样的形势，年终奖什么时候能发、乃至能不能发，可能要打上一个大问号了。
Zhang Wei reminded her, according to this year's situation, when the year-end bonus can be issued, or even can be issued, may have a big question mark.
安妮的思维迅速地抛开儿子的近视隐患，和张维一起发起愁来。
Anne's thinking quickly put aside her son's shortsightedness hidden danger, and Zhang Wei together began to worry.
年终奖可以迟到，但保费、房贷和信用卡，一个都不会少。
Year-end bonuses can be late, but insurance premiums, mortgages and credit cards are no less.
本来夫妻俩都只是工薪族，家里还有一个被戏称为“四脚吞金兽”的学龄孩子，每月各种支出，手头几乎没有什么闲钱。
The couple used to be wage earners and had a school-age kid dubbed "four-legged golden beast" who spent almost nothing on his hands every month.
安妮叹了一口气：不行的话，得动用家里的应急储备金了。
Annie sighed: If not, she would have to draw on her family's contingency fund.
安妮转念想到的，按现在的政策规定，湖北区域企业春节返工的时候不能早于2月13日，但不论是丈夫还是自己，谁都不知道能在什么时候返工。
Annie thought, according to the current policy, Hubei enterprises can not rework the Spring Festival before February 13, but whether the husband or themselves, no one knows when to rework.
就像网上流传的段子一样，也许一觉醒来，自己的假期又延长了。
As the spread of the online paragraph, perhaps a wake-up, their own vacation has been extended.
张维身处业务部门，基本工资有限，主要的收入来源是业绩奖金，如果不上班只发基本工资，收入将大打折扣。
Zhang, who works in a business with a limited base salary and whose main source of income is a performance bonus, will see his earnings watered down if he doesn't work for a basic salary.
可若在疫情尚未平息时强行出门上班，又有极大的风险；对于安妮的工作，家里其他人基本达成一致意见的是：如果到了2月14日，公司要求她返工而无法通融，那就做好辞职的准备——安妮的身体不太好，工作内容又需要天天跟人不断打交道，如果强行返工，全家都不放心。
The rest of the family agreed that Anne's job would be well prepared to quit if she was asked to return to work on February 14, when she was not well enough to do so, and if she had to deal with people on a daily basis, the whole family would not be comfortable with forced rework.
安妮很是不甘心，她已经在现在的公司工作了快6年，工作驾轻就熟，领导认可、同事和睦，还算是一份满意的工作。
Anne is not willing to accept, she has worked in the present company for almost 6 years, easy to handle the work, leadership recognition, colleagues harmony, is a satisfactory job.
如果贸然辞职，很是可惜，想想形势，更不知道什么时候才能再找到一份理想的工作。
If the sudden resignation, it is a pity to think about the situation, and do not know when to find a dream job.
说到激动处，安妮心底又涌起一阵烦躁。
Speaking of excitement, Annie felt a surge of impatience.
可就像张维说的：“工作重要还是命重要？”转过头来，张维又强打起精神安慰她，说这只是极端情况下的最后一步，“也许公司会同意你在家办公的”。
But as Zhang said, "Is work important or life important?" Turning around, Zhang took great pains to reassure her that this was the last step in an extreme situation. "Maybe the company would agree to work from home."
安妮点点头，又摇摇头，反身转向张维：“那你呢？如果疫情还没过去就返工，我也不放心你出门啊。
Annie nodded, shook her head and turned to Zhang Wei: "What about you? If the epidemic has not passed, I do not trust you to go out."
”张维也不置可否地摇摇头：“那我们俩都不出门，谁上班挣钱？唉，到时候再说吧。
Zhang shook his head noncommittal: "Then neither of us goes out, who goes to work to make money?" Alas, we'll talk then.
”除了需要还的房贷是固定的，未来的一切现在都不可知。
With the exception of mortgages that need to be repaid, nothing is known about the future.
安妮在翻看朋友圈时，看到了房客梦梦的一条朋友圈，是一条网上热转的“问问房东能不能免租金”的帖子。
Annie, looking through the circle of friends, saw a friend of the tenant dream, is a hot online "ask landlord can rent-free" post.
梦梦租安妮家的旧房子已经2年多了，彼此相处不算热络，但还算和平而默契。
Dream rental Anne's old house has been more than two years, do not get along with each other, but also a peaceful and tacit understanding.
最初，安妮因为不满旧房客常年拖欠房租，终止了租约，然后梦梦就在中介的推荐下找到安妮。
At first, Anne was dissatisfied with the old tenant defaulted on rent, terminated the lease, and then dream on the agency's recommendation to find Anne.
安妮还记得第一次见面时梦梦的样子：齐刘海，长头发，背着双肩包，很乖巧。
Annie still remembers the dream when she first met: Qi Liu Hai, long hair, shoulder bag, very clever.
她和同事一起，一共3个女孩子，眨巴着眼睛，嘴巴甜甜的，一口一句笑，喊“姐姐真好看”。
She and her colleagues, a total of three girls, blinking eyes, sweet mouth, a smile, shouting "sister really good-looking."
安妮笑了，“你们是想还价吧？”她们也笑了，说，“刚毕业不久，工资不高，房租能不能便宜点？”梦梦那年24岁出头，参加工作2年多，现在就职的这家小贸易公司，也是她毕业时找的第一份工作。
Anne smiled, "Are you trying to haggle?" They laughed, too, saying, "Not long after graduation, the salary isn't high and rent is a bit cheaper." The small trading company that she worked for more than two years in the dream year was also her first job at graduation.
公司离安妮家旧房子所在的小区很近，她的许多同事都在那里租住。
The company is close to the neighborhood where Anne's old house is located and many of her colleagues are renting there.
安妮本不想将房子租给合租的房客的，但看看3个女孩子温和又礼貌，也就心软了。
Anne had no intention of renting the house to a tenant, but it softened her heart to see the three girls' gentleness and politeness.
三房两厅的房子，房租3000元，梦梦和她同事们共同承担。
Three-bedroom two-hall house, rent 3000 yuan, dream dream and her colleagues to share.
2年多的时间里，梦梦从不欠租，平时也很少麻烦安妮和张维，除非出现空调坏了这种实在解决不了的问题，才会带着歉意给安妮打来电话。
For more than 2 years, dream never owe rent, usually also rarely troublesome Anne and Zhang Wei, unless the air conditioner broke down this kind of problem can not solve this problem, will call Anne with apologies.
安妮有时会看到梦梦她们发的朋友圈，3个小女生，下班之余偶尔还会做做饭，摆盘发图嚷着求赞，安妮从照片里看房间，打扫得干干净净。
Anne sometimes sees a circle of friends, three little girls, who occasionally cook and yell for praise after work, and Annie looks at the room and cleans it up.
她打心底里喜欢这几位小房客，也就一直没涨房租，希望这样安安稳稳地打交道下去。
She liked these little tenants from the bottom of her heart, and had not gone up the rent, hoping to get along so smoothly.
看到梦梦的朋友圈，虽然也许是玩笑，但安妮还是觉得有点不好意思。
To see the circle of friends dream, although it may be a joke, but Anne still feel a bit embarrassed.
她和梦梦联系了一下，梦梦正在沮丧中——她在封城前没有离开，此时一个人在屋子里，除了又惊又怕，还要忧心接下去的房租。
She made contact with the dream, and it was in a despondency, that she had not quitted the city, while she was alone in the house, frightened and frightened, and worried about the next rent.
与梦梦合租的两个女孩已经决定年后先不来武汉了，至于疫情过后还会不会回来，现在也说不准。
The two girls who shared the dream have decided not to come to Wuhan after the next year, and it is not clear whether they will come back after the epidemic.
如果她们不回来，梦梦短时间内也无法找到合租者，那么，每个月3000元的房租对她而言是个很大的负担。
If they don't come back and the dream won't find a tenant any time soon, then the rent of 3,000 yuan a month is a great burden for her.
梦梦也不知道年后什么时候能复工，到时候收入会不会打折扣，如果情况真的不好，“可能我们就要去租那种1000多块钱一间的老房子了”。
Dreams do not know when the next year will be able to resume work, when the income will be discounted, if the situation is really bad, "maybe we will rent more than 1000 yuan a room of the old house.
梦梦说得很黯然：本来她现在做的这份工作，做得就不太开心，原本打算在春节之后先裸辞再换份喜欢的工作的。
Dream said very sombre: originally she is doing this job, has not been very happy, originally planned to after the Spring Festival nude then change the job which likes.
可现在看，年后找工作的局面估计会很难看，她倒开始庆幸春节前没有一时冲动辞职了，“这家公司不炒掉我就是万幸了”。
But now, looking for a job after 20 years will be very ugly, she began to congratulate the Spring Festival before the impulse to resign, "this company does not fire me is lucky."
梦梦的公司只有十来人，业绩也一般，老板常说，“能养活你们，已经算很不错了”。
Dream of the company only a dozen people, performance is also mediocre, the boss often said, "can feed you, already very good."
梦梦工资5000出头，扣掉保险，到手才4000多，除掉房租水电和日常开销，每月也没什么闲钱，偶尔奖励自己吃顿火锅看场电影，是她最大的快乐。
Dream wages in her early 5,000-plus, insurance-deductible, hands-on more than 4,000, rent, utilities and daily expenses, nothing free every month, occasionally rewarding oneself to eat a hot pot to see a movie, is her greatest happiness.
当然，这样快乐的时刻寥寥可数，大部分时间，加班后回家，疲惫不堪的她只想窝在床上追剧。
Of course, these happy moments were few and far between. Most of the time, when she came home after working overtime, she wanted to stay in bed and play.
她纠结过很多次要不要辞职，加班多，工资少，又不能学到很多东西，这份工作“不要也罢”。
She's obsessed with not quitting her job, working overtime, earning less and not learning much, so don't quit the job.
可现在不一样了，消息灵通的同事说，老板已经好多天愁得睡不着觉了，如果按现在的样子，公司真撑不了多久。
But now, says a well-informed co-worker, the boss has been too worried to sleep for days and the company really won't last as long as it is.
那个同事前几天和老板加班处理事情的时候，隐约听到老板在跟律师朋友咨询：“如果停工期间不发工资算不算违反劳动法？”“如果疫情情况下裁员需不需要付补偿金？”小道消息迅速地弥散开来，一时人人自危。
As the co-worker was working overtime with his boss the other day, he faintly heard the boss asking his lawyer friend, "If non-payment of wages during the shutdown is not considered a violation of labor law?"
那天晚上，梦梦失眠了，这份曾被她视为“鸡肋”的工作，一瞬间变得珍贵起来，她甚至想，要不要给老板发个信息，主动说停工期间不要工资，“至少能保住工作先吧”。
That night, dream dream insomnia, which she once considered a "chicken rib" work, became precious in a flash, she even thought, whether to send the boss a message that no wages during the suspension, "at least to keep the job first.
安妮想了想，还是没有把嘴边的话说出口：“你们老板撑不撑得下去，不仅仅是你们要不要工资就可以改变的。
Annie thought for a moment, but without uttering the words on her lips: "Your boss can't hold out, not just whether you want a salary or not.
”物伤其类，她不愿去打击这个忧心忡忡的小姑娘，只能问：“那你没有工资怎么生活呢？”梦梦迟疑了一下，说：“手头还有一点积蓄，过不下去了就找妈妈。
"Without wishing to attack the worried little girl, she could only ask," How can you live without a salary? "Dreams hesitated, saying," You have a little bit of savings on hand, and if you can't go on, look for your mother.
疫情总会过去的吧，撑上两个月应该没问题。
There's always going to be an epidemic. It should take two months.
”从头到尾，梦梦都没提请安妮减房租的事，这倒让安妮觉得颇为不忍。
"From beginning to end, Anne was not asked to reduce her rent in her dreams, which made Anne feel rather irritated.
安妮年轻时也在其他城市有过类似的生活经历，知道这种手头窘迫、叫天天不应叫地地不灵的无助感；但她也始终没开口主动给梦梦提减租，因为此时他们夫妻俩，也已经是过江的泥菩萨了。
Anne had had similar experiences in other cities when she was young, and knew that her distress and helplessness should not make her cry every day; but she never opened her mouth to offer a rent reduction to her dreams, for by this time they were muddy bodhisattvas who had crossed the river.
安妮有些心烦意乱，她的生活原本被她安排得好像一部严丝合缝的机器，她喜欢那种稳稳妥妥的安全感。
Anne was a little upset, and her life had been arranged like a machine, and she liked the sense of security that was safe and secure.
可她很少去想，当这部机器的某个齿轮突然崩掉时，会是如何分崩离析。
But she rarely thought about how it would disintegrate when one of the gears suddenly fell apart.
再看看备忘录，下一次梦梦需要交租的时间是3月中旬。
Look at the memo. The next time you have a dream you need to rent is in mid-March.
“等吧，等到那时候再说吧，要么就给她减一点吧，小姑娘一个人在外，也挺不容易的。
Wait till then, or give her a little less; it will not be easy for the little girl to be alone.
”安妮暗自想着。
Anne thought to herself.
听梦梦聊到她老板困境的时候，安妮想到了自己的朋友彭天，恐怕彭天现在也是一样的焦急吧。
Hearing the dream about her boss's predicament, Anne thought of her friend Peng Tian, I'm afraid Peng Tian is just as anxious now.
于是，又给彭天打了一个电话。
So he made another call to Peng Tian.
彭天年纪不大，却非常能干。
Peng Tian is young, but very capable.
创办并经营着两家民办幼儿园，规模虽不及那些大型的私立连锁幼儿园，但在他的悉心经营下，口碑颇好，深受周围居民的好评。
Founded and run two private kindergartens, although smaller than those of the large private chain, but in his careful operation, the word of mouth quite good, by the residents around the praise.
往年这个时候，都是彭天最忙的时候。
At this time of year, Peng Tian is the busiest time.
1月14日，幼儿园如期放假，彭天还没来得及松口气，就忙得晕天黑地：检查好园内的水电设备，统计好玩具教具、图书资料、电教设备、厨房器具和医疗器械等用品，盘点破损和遗失情况。
On January 14, the kindergarten was closed as scheduled. Before Peng could relax his breath, he was busy with the task of checking the water and electricity facilities in the garden, checking the toy teaching aids, library materials, electro-educational equipment, kitchen utensils and medical equipment, and making an inventory of the damaged and lost items.
将第一家已经成熟的幼儿园交给另一个股东主要负责后，彭天将自己大量的精力放在这家两年前刚刚开业的新园里。
Having handed over the first mature kindergarten to another shareholder, Peng devoted much of his energy to the new garden, which opened just two years ago.
幼儿园在汉阳的新区，占地面积1600平，10个班，在彭天的经营下，已经度过前期的爬坡期，终于实现了收支平衡，和他一起忙碌的，还有合伙的两位股东，他们兵分三路，除了盘点目前在运营的两家幼儿园外，还要分出大量精力，筹备开工下一个新园。
The kindergarten in the new district of Hanyang covers an area of 1600 Ping, 10 classes, under the management of Peng Tian, has passed the uphill period and finally made ends meet. Together with his two partners, the two members of the kindergarten are divided into three parts, and will devote a great deal of energy to preparing for the start of the next park.
彭天踌躇满志，他喜欢这种充实而有盼头的忙碌，他的计划满满当当——春节过后，除了完成物资的补给、园区消毒等准备工作外，就要迎来最重点的招生工作以及教学部署了。
Peng Tianjun was satisfied with this full and hopeful busy, his plan is full - after the Spring Festival, in addition to the completion of supplies, park disinfection and other preparatory work, will usher in the most important recruitment and teaching deployment.
等这两个幼儿园顺利开学，新园的建设就可以开工了。
When the two kindergartens open smoothly, the construction of the new park can start.
而这些计划，都在1月20日那天戛然而止。
These plans came to an abrupt end on January 20th.
如今彭天最庆幸的就是，幼儿园里的孩子们都安然无事。
Today, Peng Tian most fortunate is that the kindergarten children are safe.
1月时，彭天还在为席卷本市的流感而担心——去年12月以来，各小学和幼儿园频发流感，常常是一个孩子生病了，就迅速传染给同学，很多班级都被迫停课。
In January, Mr. Pang was worried about the flu sweeping the city, with schools and kindergartens suffering frequent flu outbreaks since December, often resulting in a sick child quickly infecting his classmates and forcing many classes to close.
彭天当时把幼儿园的卫生安全问题当成头等大事，每天必须消毒通风，早上孩子入园前的体温测量也更为严格。
Peng Tian at that time, kindergarten health and safety issues as a matter of priority, every day must be disinfected ventilation, the morning children before the temperature measurement is more stringent.
现在回想起，他仍然感到一阵后怕。
Now, in retrospect, he was still afraid.
他努力回忆了放假前因不舒服而请过假的孩子，一个个电话打过去询问孩子是否安好。
He tried to recollect the children who had taken leave of absence because they were sick before the holiday, and called them one by one to ask if the children were well.
到后来，他不放心，干脆通知老师，给全园的孩子挨个打电话回访，千叮咛万嘱咐，如有什么不舒服，一定要第一时间和他们联系。
Later, he did not feel comfortable, simply notify the teacher, to the whole garden children call back, every word spoken, if any discomfort, must contact them immediately.
安妮的电话打来时，彭天正闲坐在家中。
When Anne's telephone call came, Peng Tiantian was sitting idly at home.
他已经快把那些平时没时间追的连续剧看遍了，但脑海里，一串串数字反复飞来转去：如果没有这次疫情，第二家幼儿园能迎来大概200名孩子，按每个孩子每学期1万的学费，大概能保证200万的现金入账，这笔现金流，将要支撑幼儿园接下来半年的各项开支和运营成本，剩余部分，才是他们几个股东的盈利。
He's nearly gone over the series that he doesn't usually have time to catch, but in his head a string of numbers comes back and forth: without the epidemic, a second kindergarten would have about 200 children, paying $10,000 per semester per child, and about $2 million in cash, which would support the expenses and operating costs of the kindergarten for the rest of the year.
如今现金流猝然断裂，水电杂费等也许随着幼儿园的关停能暂缓支出，可新园的租金和人员工资，粗粗一算，每月就要大概20万——旧园的规模还略大一些，一个月的纯支出约在50万。
Now the cash flow suddenly broken, utilities and other fees may be suspended with the closure of the kindergarten, but the new park rent and staff wages, rough calculation, a month about 200,000 - the size of the old garden is slightly larger, a month of net expenditure of about 500,000.
而更麻烦的是，许多曾预缴下学期学费的家长，此时纷纷要求退费，为了幼儿园的信誉，彭天不能拒绝，只能从本就紧张的现金中抽出款项退费。
To make matters worse, many parents who had paid their tuition fees in advance for the next semester are demanding a refund, which Peng can't refuse in order to maintain the credibility of the kindergarten.
原本打算3月开工建设的新园，租金已交，也不知道要搁浅到什么时候……所有的一切中唯一没停下的，是银行贷款的利息。
The new park, which was supposed to start in March, has been paid rent, and I don't know how long it will run aground... The only thing that doesn't stop is the interest on the bank loan.
彭天和两个股东愁眉不展，他们都不是“家里有矿”的人，无非是趁着年轻拼着一口气做点事业。
Peng Tian and two shareholders frowned, they are not "mine" people, but to work while young and struggling to do a business.
一两个月或许可以扛一下，3个月还能想办法筹集一下资金，4个月后呢？资金链摇摇欲坠，不知道会在什么时候迎来断裂的那一刻。
Maybe a month or two, three months to find a way to raise money, four months from now? The chain is so shaky, I don't know when it will break.
前两天，彭天与股东最激烈的争论，就来自于停工期间是否要给员工发工资：彭天曾想过，是否可以和教师们商量一下，停工期间不发工资或者只保证一些基本的生活费，等到疫情过去了，他们都缓过劲来后，再给予一些奖金作为补偿，“共克时艰嘛”。
Peng's fiercest argument with shareholders the other day was over whether to pay his staff during the shutdown: Mr. Peng wondered if he could talk to his teachers about not paying wages or providing only basic living expenses during the shutdown.
但另一个股东反对。
But another shareholder objected.
目前幼儿园在职的教师都是年轻的女孩子，私立幼儿园又不像公立幼儿园那般有事业单位编制的吸引力，不发工资后，这些女孩子们很大可能就熬不住辞职了。
Kindergarten teachers are now young girls, and private kindergartens do not have the same institutional appeal as public kindergartens. Without salaries, girls are more likely to quit their jobs.
这样的话，即使疫情结束，他们也很难第一时间恢复开园。
That way, even if the outbreak is over, it will be hard for them to get back on track.
3个人意见僵持不下，不仅说服不了对方，甚至都无法说服自己。
The three men were at a standstill, unable not only to convince each other, but also to convince themselves.
安妮安慰彭天：“等着吧，疫情总有过去的一天，那时候，一切都会好起来。
Annie consoled Peng Tian: "Wait, there will always be an epidemic of the past, then, everything will be all right.
”“我争取撑到那个时候吧。
"" I'll try and hold out till then.
”彭天没有告诉安妮的是，等到重新开园的那一刻，他可能还将面对许多已知的和未知的额外开支：疫情过后，作为密集人群聚集地的幼儿园，所将迎来的卫生整改将比其他行业要严格更多，届时必定需要投入大量资金对园区的环境进行优化和改造；面对生源的流失，也需要更多的优惠方案才能吸引新的生源；新园开工之时，一定会有人工和物料成本的上涨，造价成本至少会上浮20%起……他努力驱开自己脑海里这些念头：“现在想这些也没用，尽力先筹钱，维持运作吧。
What Peng didn't tell Anne was that by the time the garden was reopened, he would probably face many more known and unknown expenses: after the outbreak, kindergartens, as agglomerations, would have to undergo more stringent health changes than other industries.
”挂了手机，彭天扭头看看窗外，努力挤出一丝笑容。
Hanging up the phone, Peng turned his head and looked out the window, trying to squeeze a smile.
他想，冬天从我们这里夺走的东西，春天应该会交还给我们的吧？编辑| 许智博点击联系人间编辑___南 山 秋理性乐观派，用自己的方式与自己和解_本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
What winter has taken from us, he thought, should be returned to us in the springtime? Editor & # 160; Xu Zhibo clicked with the rational optimist of autumn, the editor of _ _ Nanshan, and reconciled with himself in his own way.
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
Bye-bye Police chiefs unworthy of being a civil servant at Rest & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉城里的幸存者：躲着疾病，算着未来丨人间。
Survivors in Wuhan: Hiding from disease, counting the future.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉城里的幸存者：躲着疾病，算着未来丨人间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; survivors in Wuhan: shunning disease, counting the future to & quot;;
var msg_desc = "冬天从我们这里夺走的东西，春天应该会交还给我们的吧。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; what winter took from us should have been returned to us in the spring.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
