在人间 | 从湖北13个县市，送300个医护人员回武汉抗疫。
From 13 counties and cities in Hubei Province, 300 medical personnel returned to Wuhan to fight the epidemic.
在人间。
In the world.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品我叫范曹军，今年34岁，是湖北襄阳枣阳市人。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix net in the world studio production of my name is Fan Caojun, 34 years old, is Hubei Xiangyang Zaoyang City.
我在武汉上学、工作十多年了，武汉是我的第二故乡。
I have been studying and working in Wuhan for more than ten years. Wuhan is my second hometown.
去年12月，我就开始关注华南海鲜市场零散爆发出来的疫情消息。
Last December, I began to focus on sporadic outbreaks in the South China seafood market.
由于工作原因，我经常在武汉市内到处跑。
Because of my work, I often run around Wuhan city.
1月，有一次，我开车路过华南海鲜市场，发现有很多医护人员和警察、城管，市场已经被封，我意识到疫情有点儿严重了。
In January, I drove past the South China Seafood Market and noticed that there were a lot of medical staff and police and city officials.
当天我就买了一次性医用口罩。
I bought a disposable medical mask the same day.
我在武汉的朋友也都知道这个事，但由于当时政府说得很明确，不会人传人，我们几个朋友在一起时是不会戴口罩的，只有外出才会戴。
All my friends in Wuhan knew about this, but since the government made it clear at the time that no one could pass from one person to another, we didn't wear masks when we were together.
我是年前几天回到枣阳的，大年二十九，武汉封城。
I was back to Zaoyang a few days ago, about 29 years old, Wuhan closure.
当时我在家里，早上起来看到消息，很懵，吓到了。
At that time I was at home, wake up in the morning to see the news, very stunned, scared.
就想，不是看错了吧，怎么会把整个武汉给封了？当时我不能理解封城意味着什么。
Just think, is not wrong, how can the whole Wuhan sealed? At that time, I could not understand what the closure means.
我只知道武汉是那么大的一个城市，三环线加起来有将近80多公里，开一圈下来都得一个多小时，四环线有150多公里，这还不算周边的那些区，黄陂、江夏等。
I only know that Wuhan is such a big city. The three loops add up to more than 80 kilometers, and it takes more than an hour to drive around, and there are more than 150 kilometers on the Fourth Ring Road.
这时，我觉得事情很严重了，疫情不断升级，新闻数字爆炸式增长。
At this point, I think things are very serious, the epidemic is escalating, the number of news explosion.
武汉医护人员几天几夜不休息，直接躺在地板上睡着了，甚至还有牺牲的医护人员。
Wuhan medical personnel do not rest for several days and nights, lying directly on the floor fell asleep, and even the sacrifice of medical personnel.
紧接着，武汉很多医院开始召集放假或休息的员工回到一线，我陆陆续续看到湖北不少县市中有很多医护人员迫切需要回到武汉。
Then, Wuhan many hospitals began to call holiday or rest of staff back to the line, I gradually saw many county in Hubei many medical personnel urgently need to return to Wuhan.
但当时大家都把注意力集中到武汉了，没有很关注外围战线，比如说省内其他市县支援的医护人员，我们市就有许多。
But at that time, we all focused on Wuhan, did not pay much attention to the peripheral front, such as other cities and counties in the province to support medical personnel, our city has many.
我想既然没人做，那我们做。
I think if no one does it, let's do it.
一往年春节期间，即使没有疫情，湖北的县级市和乡镇，搭车都很不方便，何况在疫情爆发各地封城封村的情况下。
During the Spring Festival of previous years, even if there was no epidemic, Hubei county-level cities and townships are very inconvenient, not to mention in the outbreak of the outbreak of the closure of villages.
初一那天，我在老乡微信群和朋友圈发消息，号召有条件的朋友当司机志愿者，送医护人员去武汉上班。
On the first day of junior high school, I sent a message to my friends and family, calling on qualified friends to volunteer as drivers and send medical workers to Wuhan.
我有七八个枣阳老乡群，其中也有枣阳人在武汉的老乡群，一共两三千人左右，里面有很多医护人员，也有很多司机。
I have seven or eight Zaoyang Laoxiang group, which also have Zaoyang people in Wuhan, a total of about two or three thousand people, there are many medical personnel, there are many drivers.
号召发出，很快就有人响应，当天夜里就组建成了25人的志愿者车队。
The call was soon answered, and a convoy of 25 volunteers was formed that night.
这25个人我都没有见过面，他们基本都是私家车主，有自己的工作，但都非常热心。
These 25 people I have not met, they are basically private car owners, have their own jobs, but are very enthusiastic.
但是，我是从武汉回来的，要在枣阳的家里隔离。
However, I came back from Wuhan, to the home of Zaoyang isolation.
无法出门，我就留在家里做指挥工作。
Unable to get out of the house, I stayed at home to conduct the work.
我给25个司机拉了一个群。
I pulled a group of 25 drivers.
召集车队不费事，后续组织跟具体实施的过程比较艰辛。
Convene the convoy without difficulty, the follow-up organization and implementation of the process is more difficult.
初二我们发了两辆车试行。
We sent two cars for a trial run.
我小范围宣传了一下，立马就有一个医护人员回应。
I gave it a little publicity, and there was a paramedics response right away.
她是武汉某医院的护士，现在人在枣阳，一开始医院还没有要求她们回去，但她在群里了解到武汉的情况后，主动要求回武汉支援。
She is a Wuhan hospital nurses, now in Zaoyang, at the beginning of the hospital has not asked them to go back, but she learned about Wuhan in the group, volunteered to back back support.
刚开始这些医护人员只能零零散散自己回去。
At first these paramedics had to go back here and there.
后来，武汉那边情况越发危急，越来越多的医护人员要求回去，我们就越来越忙。
Later, Wuhan side of the situation is more and more critical, more and more medical personnel asked to go back, we are more and more busy.
一个医护人员坐了我们的车后，会把我们车队志愿者的信息发到他们的医护群，一传十十传百，后来有一些其他热心志愿者组建的省内回武汉的医护人员群，比如襄阳回武汉，会邀请我们加入群，网络慢慢就被搭建起来了。
When a medic gets in our car and sends information about our motorcade volunteers to their medical group, from person to person, some other enthusiastic volunteers form the province back to Wuhan, such as Xiangyang back to Wuhan, we will be invited to join the group, the network was slowly set up.
从枣阳到武汉有300多公里，单程要3个小时。
There are more than 300 kilometers from Zaoyang to Wuhan, it takes 3 hours one way.
最开始，我们的司机只在枣阳，后来迅速发展到沿线跟周边县市，差不多一共13个县市。
At first, our driver only in Zaoyang, and then developed quickly along the road with the surrounding counties, almost a total of 13 counties and cities.
■ 苏宏昌（制鞋厂老板），将枣阳市、随州市、云梦县、孝感市的5位医护人员送到武汉。
:: Su Hongchang (shoemaking factory owner), will Zaoyang City, Suizhou, Yunmeng County, Xiaogan City 5 medical personnel sent to Wuhan.
在府河收费站，交警为他们拍照留念。
At the Fuhe toll station, traffic police took pictures of them.
整个过程蛮辛酸的。
The whole process was rather sour.
随着疫情升级，从省里到市里，市里到县里，甚至到村里，所有的交通都封锁了。
As the epidemic escalated, all traffic was blocked from province to city, city to county and even to the village.
我家在农村，村里也开始在门口贴通知，登记，上报。
My family in the countryside, the village also began to put up notices at the door, registration, reporting.
要想顺利协调一个医护人员，让他从村里到镇上、到市里，辗转赶到我们的会合点，这个过程当中有太多的艰辛。
There was a lot of hard work involved in coordinating a medic from village to town to town to town to our meeting point.
有一个在武汉工作的女医生，在孝昌县一个村里要回武汉上班。
There is a female doctor working in Wuhan, Xiaochang County in a village back to Wuhan to work.
出发之前我跟她沟通好要怎么走。
I talked to her about how to get there before we left.
因为我们送多了，有经验。
Because we're giving more and we're experienced.
她不知道怎么办，我就指导她，比如让医院开什么样的证明，怎么开，要不要盖章，怎么跟当地沟通。
She didn't know what to do, so I mentored her, like what kind of certificate to give to the hospital, how to open it, whether to stamp it, how to communicate with the local people.
第二天她刚开车准备出村口就被拦了，封村，不让走。
The next day, just as she was going to drive out of the village, she was stopped, sealed and refused permission.
她跟村里说了半天也没办法，后来我跟她村里的人解释说，我们是公益志愿者车队，我们的车已经到高速路口，要接这个医生回武汉参与抗疫。
She talked to the village for a long time, then I explained to her village, we are a volunteer convoy, our car has arrived at the high-speed intersection, to take the doctor back to Wuhan to participate in the fight against the epidemic.
说了半天，才放她出来。
After a long time, she was released.
出了村没多远，她就遇到很多路被封。
Not far from the village, she encountered many roads blocked.
农村的封路都很暴力，弄个推土机，或者搞一堆土，把路整个堵死。
Road closures in the countryside were violent, with a bulldozer or a pile of dirt to block the road.
她问我怎么办，我说你赶紧打电话，让你爸爸或者亲戚搞一个摩托车送你到孝昌县和孝感市交界处跟我们汇合。
She asked me what to do, I said you call quickly, let your father or relatives get a motorcycle to take you to Xiaochang County and Xiaogan City junction with us.
一路上，从这个村到那村镇，从这个镇到那个镇，跨区域之后又有一道关口，被当地的交警拦住了。
Along the way, from the village to the village, from the town to the town, there was another barrier across the region, stopped by the local traffic police.
她跟交警解释了半天，没有用，不行，就是不能走。
She explained to the traffic police for a long time, but it was no use, no, she couldn't go.
交警对医院的证明也不认可，说现在上面下了死命令。
The traffic police also disapproved of the hospital's certificate, saying that there was now a death warrant on it.
她哭着问我怎么办。
She cried and asked me what to do.
我想了一下，说，你在现场逐一打一遍110、120、市长热线12345或者是当地防控指挥部的电话。
I thought about it a little bit and said, 'You go over 110, 120, Mayors' Hotline 12345 or a call from the local command for control.
她打了110，110没说放行也没说不放行。
She called 110, 110 and didn't say no.
弄到最后，交警被我们感动了，又看了她的相关证据，包括我们的聊天记录，确认这个人是回武汉支援，才放行。
Finally, the traffic police were moved by us, looked at her evidence, including our chat records, and confirmed that the man was back in Wuhan support before releasing her.
交警用他们的车载着她到高速路口跟我们车队的司机汇合。
The traffic police used their car to take her to the motorway to meet the driver of our motorcade.
女医生回去后还发了一个朋友圈，大意是：一路跋山涉水，翻山越岭，就是现实版的《人在囧途》，除了轮船和飞机没坐，这一路基本上所有的交通工具都用上了。
The female doctor returned with a circle of friends, to the effect that the real version of "Man in Misery," except for the steamer and the airplane, was almost all the way on the road.
二很多时候我就是找一张破纸，接到电话拿支笔就开始记。
Many times I just find a scrap of paper and start to remember it when I get a pen on the phone.
他的网名叫什么，人在哪里，大概什么时候出发，离他最近的高速路口在哪里，我们车子现在还有多少，能分到哪辆车，司机的电话是多少，需要几点过去汇合，走哪条路最近等。
What is the name of his net, where he is, when he will probably leave, where is the nearest highway intersection, how many cars we still have, which car we can get, what number the driver is calling, what time does it take to converge, which road to take, etc.
所有我们能想到的问题，我都把它考虑进去。
I take into account all the problems we can think of.
■崔巍（左二，退伍军人，自主创业），每次护送医护人员总是冲在第一个。
Cui Wei (second left, veteran, self-employed), each time the medical escort always rushed to the first.
其实一开始不是这样的。
It wasn't like that in the first place.
最初由一个热心志愿者或者一个医护人员自己在群里面丢消息，我是哪个医院的，我要到哪儿，我人在哪儿，或者一个志愿者说我车在哪里，车空几个位置，要到哪儿。
At first, an enthusiastic volunteer or a medical worker himself dropped the message inside the group: which hospital I was, where I was going, where I was, or where a volunteer told me where my car was, where it was empty, where it was going.
这是点对点的联系，沟通效率极低，尤其在有几百人的群里，容易刷屏，让真正有需要的人看不到有用的信息。
This is a point-to-point connection, and communication is extremely inefficient, especially in a group of several hundred people, where it is easy to swipe the screen so that those who really need it do not see useful information.
前两次我们也是这样沟通，但第二天我就立马就改变了工作方式。
We communicated the same way the first two times, but the next day I immediately changed the way I worked.
我想了一个办法，由我在后台搭建枢纽，左手联系司机，右手联系医护人员。
I figured out a way for me to set up a hub backstage, contact the driver with my left hand and the paramedics with my right hand.
在信息确认之前，司机和医护人员彼此不联系。
Drivers and paramedics are not in touch with each other until the information is confirmed.
当我确定了双方的信息基本匹配度在90%以上，我再拉一个小群，里面有司机，我和坐这辆车的医护人员。
When I determined that the basic match was above 90%, I pulled a small group of drivers, me and the paramedics in the car.
我会提前规划好路线，第一在哪儿接医护人员，第二接哪个医护人员。
I'll plan the route ahead, first where to pick up the paramedics, and second, which paramedics.
这样司机只用记住几点钟在哪个路口接哪个医护人员，比如枣阳市两个人，随州收费站有两个人。
So drivers just remember which intersection to pick up at what time, such as Zaoyang City two people, Suizhou toll station has two people.
司机不用一个个联系确认医护人员的具体信息，医护人员遇到麻烦的时候不用向司机求助，只用向我求助，我会告诉他们怎么到达集合地点，司机耐心等待就可以，这样就大大提高了运送的效率。
Drivers do not have to contact each other to confirm the details of the medical staff, when the medical staff do not have to ask the driver for help, I will tell them how to get to the gathering place, the driver can just wait patiently, which greatly improves the efficiency of the delivery.
我们可以做到每一辆车几乎都满载，五座的私家车可以坐到4个医护人员，七座的商务车或者是MPV可以坐到5到6个人。
We can do almost every car full, five-seater private cars can seat up to four medical personnel, seven-seater business cars or MPVs can sit up to five to six people.
我会在群里面发司机的行程，沿途的医护人员会跟我联系。
I will post the driver's itinerary in the group and I will be contacted by the medical staff along the way.
我几乎每天工作十七、八个小时，时刻盯着群里的动态，联系人，协调，设计路线。
I work nearly seventeen or eight hours a day, staring at group dynamics, contacts, co-ordination, route design.
■邓国涛（印刷工人），护送谷城县、宜宾市医务人员回武汉支援。
▪ Deng Guotao (printing worker), escort medical staff back to Wuhan to support the city of Gu Cheng and Yibin.
粗略统计，目前我们已经送了差不多300个医护人员。
According to rough statistics, we have delivered almost 300 medical personnel so far.
我们有将近二三十个司机，今天这几辆车，明天那几辆车，跑一天原则上休息一下，那些特别有奉献精神的就连续跑，一天跑一趟，不休息。
We have nearly twenty or thirty drivers, and today's cars, tomorrow's ones, take a day off in principle, and those who are particularly dedicated run one day at a time without rest.
大部分司机是枣阳的，后来陆续有其他地方的司机加入，谷城县的，宜城的等。
Most of the drivers were from Zaoyang, and later drivers from other places joined, from Gucheng County to Yicheng City.
他们通过其他渠道找到我们，可能他们当地没有人组织，或者没有找到当地的志愿者，就找到我们这边了，我们毕竟车队大一点，信息广一些。
They found us through other channels, maybe they didn't have a local organization, or they didn't find local volunteers, so they came to us. After all, we were bigger and more informative.
我们枣阳当地的一个司机，从我发起号召开始，他就积极报名。
We Zaoyang a local driver, since I launched the call, he has been actively registered.
我们帮他协调村里，给他开各种证明，但是当地就是不让他出来。
We helped him coordinate the village and gave him various certificates, but the local authorities would not let him out.
他天天看着群里运送医护人员的司机那么辛苦，干着急，帮不上忙，他前前后后争取了四五天，跟村里，跟镇长打电话，跟市里面协调，最终还是没有成功。
He spent four or five days trying to reach out to the village, talk to the mayor, coordinate with the city, and finally fail.
每个地方出于自己的防护需要，我们能理解，不过他这种精神我挺感动的。
We can understand every place for our own protection needs, but I am touched by his spirit.
有个小区的保安跟司机说，你这个车开出去可以，开出去之后再也不要开回来了，那个司机很无奈，说，好，那我就不开回来了。
One of the neighborhood security guards told the driver, you can drive out of this car can not drive back, the driver is very helpless, said, well, then I can not open back.
目前我们有两个司机退出了。
At the moment, two of our drivers are out.
不是他们自己想要退出，而是家里人担心他们的安全，他们没办法。
It was not that they wanted to quit, but that the family feared for their safety and that they could do nothing.
我们也能理解。
We can understand that, too.
三这过程中也遇到过质疑。
Third, this process also encountered doubts.
有人说你发国难财，这时候不要命了还出去跑车做生意；还有的说政府给你发补贴，一天一两千。
Some people say that you can't make a fortune, and then go out to run a sports car. Others say the government gives you a subsidy, one or two thousand a day.
说什么的都有。
Anything you say.
事实上我们没有一分钱报酬。
In fact we don't get paid at all.
我以前做献血志愿者时也遇到过这种质疑。
I've had this kind of problem before as a volunteer blood donor.
我是武汉“秦义无偿成分献血感召队”的一名志愿者，已经献了30多次，平均一年三次。
I am Wuhan "Qinyi pro bono component of blood donation team" a volunteer, has given more than 30 times, an average of three times a year.
不但自己去参加无偿献血，还要影响身边更多的人加入。
Not only to participate in their own unpaid blood donation, but also to influence more people around them to join.
有一次我带了三四位朋友去献血，发了朋友圈。
I once took three or four friends to donate blood and made friends.
有个人说，你带这么多人过去献血，他们每个人给你多少钱？意思就是我介绍人去献血，血液中心给我发多少钱。
One person said, You take so many people to donate blood, how much do each of them give you?
听到这话真的心里很难受。
It really hurts to hear that.
■民间车队组织者范曹军在武汉血液中心捐献血小板。
▪ Fan Cao Jun, the organizer of a civilian motorcade, donates platelets at Wuhan Blood Centre.
所有的服务都是无偿的，这当中没有任何利益纠葛。
All services are free of charge, and there is no entanglement in them.
当然，最开始司机们提议免费送医护人员，我考虑了一下，觉得完全免费不现实，因为一去一回600公里，那意味着随便一辆车的油费跑一趟下来就四五百块钱。
Of course, at first the drivers offered free medical care, and I thought it was completely unrealistic to be free, because a trip of 600 kilometers would mean four or five hundred dollars for any one car.
这些司机都是普通工薪阶层，四五百块钱他负担得起，但是他能负担起几个四五百块呢。
He could afford four or five hundred dollars, but he could afford four or five hundred.
我就决定象征性地收取一点费用，让这个事情能长久稳定地运行下去。
I decided to charge a nominal fee to keep the business going for a long time.
枣阳到武汉市的大巴车一个座位收费100块钱，我们小车载医护人员50块。
The bus from Zaoyang to Wuhan will cost 100 yuan for one seat and 50 yuan for the medical staff in our minibus.
勉强保住油钱。
barely hold on to the gas.
我从来不接触这个钱。
I never touch this money.
我会跟医护人员说，你上车了，或者到了目的地之后，发到小群（每辆车都有一个小群），提醒司机收就行了。
I'll tell the paramedics that you get on the bus, or when you get to your destination, send it to a small group (each car has a small group) and remind the driver to take it.
医护人员很能理解我们。
The paramedics understand us very well.
这个费用我们不说，他们主动会给，而且会多给。
We do not say that the cost, they will offer, and will give more.
我们做多了，陆陆续续有些枣阳老乡，武汉的热心市民，进行捐赠，虽然不多，千百块钱，但每次司机出一次车我会给他们补50块钱的油钱，作为爱心人士对他们的一个敬意。
We did a lot, add some Zaoyang Laoxiang, Wuhan's warm-hearted citizens, to donate, although not much, a thousand dollars, but every time the driver out of the car I will give them 50 yuan oil, as a tribute to the caring people.
2月5日，车队暂停运营。
On 5 February, the convoy was suspended.
这跟志愿者司机何辉去世的消息有关。
It has to do with the news of the death of volunteer driver Ho Hui.
虽然我们不认识他，但他就是我们身边的战友。
Though we don't know him, he is our comrade-in-arms.
一听到这个消息，群里就开始讨论如何做好防护。
As soon as they heard the news, the group began to discuss how to protect themselves.
因为我们接触的人比较多，如果我们是病毒携带者的话，岂不是感染了医护人员。
Because we are in contact with more people, if we are carriers of the virus, it is not infected with medical personnel.
我们一直没有多少防护物资。
We haven't had much protection.
组建的时候我就跟大家说清楚了，这个事情完全靠自愿。
When I was formed, I made it clear to you that this was entirely voluntary.
但我会监督他们做好相应防护，比如戴好口罩，开车过程中尽量保持车内通风。
But I will monitor them for protection, such as wearing a mask and trying to keep the car ventilated while driving.
出发之前要对车消一次毒，到达武汉收费站跟当地交警和志愿者接洽完之后消一次毒，返回枣阳之后再一次消毒，每辆车平均一天要消两到三次毒。
Before leaving the car to eliminate a poison, to the Wuhan toll station and local traffic police and volunteers after contact with the elimination of a poison, after returning to Zaoyang again disinfect, each car on average two to three times a day.
我们自始至终没有防护服，现在口罩和酒精也全部没有了，只能暂停运营。
We had no protective clothing at all, and now the masks and alcohol were gone and we had to suspend operations.
我在群里宣布了这个消息，也告诉司机，一定想尽办法筹集物资，特别感动的是，一个司机说，只要防护物资到了，我们立马就开始。
I announced the news in the group and told the driver that I would do everything I could to raise supplies. In particular, one driver said that we would start as soon as the protective material arrived.
我在网上看到，有个女医生花了四天三夜骑行300多公里返回武汉的工作岗位，当时看到这个视频之后，我眼泪哗哗往下流。
I saw on the Internet a female doctor who spent four days and three nights riding more than 300 kilometers back to her job in Wuhan.
只有经历过这个过程的人才知道艰辛。
Only those who have gone through this process know how difficult it is.
“我不忍心看到第二个‘骑自行车回武汉上班的医生了’。
"I can't bear to see a second doctor cycling back to Wuhan.
”接着，我在志愿者司机群里面写了一段话，说从今天开始想尽一切办法帮大家筹集物资，物资筹集到之后愿意继续做的自愿报名。
"Then I wrote a paragraph among the group of volunteer drivers, saying that from today on I would do everything I could to help everyone raise money, and that once they got there, they would volunteer to continue doing so.
2月7日，我们筹到了170个一次性口罩，50个护目镜，50瓶消毒酒精，但是仍然没有防护服。
On 7 February, we raised 170 disposable masks, 50 goggles and 50 bottles of disinfectant alcohol, but still no protective clothing.
傍晚我在群里号召大家2月11日重新启动车队，继续运送医护人员，已经有司机响应。
In the evening, I called on everyone to restart the convoy on February 11 to continue to transport medical personnel, and drivers have responded.
四我记得很清楚，高中毕业那年，第一次到武汉，我跟几个同学拖着行李，从汉口火车站出来，坐803路公交车，从汉口绕一圈，再走江汉桥，然后再走到汉阳。
I remember clearly that when I first came to Wuhan after I graduated from high school, some of my classmates and I dragged my luggage out of Hankou Railway Station, took bus No. 803, made a circuit of Hankou, took Jiang Han Bridge, then walked to Han Yang.
襄阳和枣阳这边坐公交车最长不会超过半个小时，但那天我们整整坐了一个半小时才到目的地。
Xiangyang and Zaoyang could not take more than half an hour by bus, but we sat for an hour and a half to get there.
一路上，我们就问公交车司机到了没有，到了没有，生怕坐过站，公交车司机搞烦了，就用武汉话说，到了自然会叫你们的，不会错过的。
Along the way, we asked bus drivers arrived, arrived not, afraid of sitting at the station, bus drivers bored, said in Wuhan language, will naturally call you, will not miss.
后来我们就调侃这个事儿说好划算，两块钱坐一个半小时。
Then we joked about it and said it was good value for money, two dollars and a half.
这个城市很大很大，大学很多，所有的大学都很美，很有文化气息。
This city is very big, many universities, all the universities are very beautiful, very cultural atmosphere.
那一年，武汉的城中村到处都是，包括繁华地段。
That year, Wuhan city village is everywhere, including the bustling area.
很多外地朋友跟我开玩笑说武汉就是一个大农村，我当时就跟他们开玩笑，说，那你说对了，我们就是从农村来的。
Many out-of-town friends joked with me that Wuhan is a big country. I joked with them and said, "Well, you're right, we are from the countryside.
我们就很喜欢武汉，农村就农村呗，从小农村走到大农村。
We like Wuhan, the countryside on the rural, from small rural to large rural areas.
来到武汉之后，我就想，先把工作稳定下来，然后要读书，上个大学。
After I came to Wuhan, I wanted to settle down to work, then go to school and go to college.
因为家里经济原因，我高中毕业之后就没读书了，后来到九州通医药集团工作。
Because of economic reasons at home, I did not study after graduating from high school, and later to work in Kyushu Tong Pharmaceutical Group.
当时公司为了帮助职工提升学历，组织大家读大学，我就主动报名了，我们就边工作边上大学。
At that time, in order to help workers upgrade their academic qualifications, the organization of college, I volunteered to sign up, we work side by side with the university.
学了四年半，拿到了本科文凭。
After four and a half years, I got an undergraduate diploma.
这也是我的第一份工作。
It was also my first job.
这家医药公司就是在这次抗击疫情当中，正式接管湖北红十字会仓库的那家医药公司。
It was in the fight against the epidemic that the pharmaceutical company officially took over the Hubei Red Cross warehouse.
我在那里工作了七八年，他们在医用物资的管理分发配送方面，绝对是湖北省最专业的。
I worked there for seven or eight years, and they are absolutely the most professional in Hubei province in managing, distributing and distributing medical materials.
我现在一家保险公司工作，在武汉生活了很多年，我很喜欢这里。
I work for an insurance company and have lived in Wuhan for many years. I like it here very much.
武汉其实是一座很美的城市，并不是像他们说的大农村，根本就不是。
Wuhan is actually a very beautiful city, not like they said the big countryside, not at all.
要说文化底蕴，武汉有武大，华科，211，985，一点不比国内任何一个城市差。
To speak of cultural heritage, Wuhan has Wuda, Huaco, 211,985, no less than any other city in the country.
要说风景的话，这里有5A级景区，长江大桥，黄鹤楼，还有国家级风景名胜，包括后来建的东湖绿道等等。
For scenery, there are 5 A scenic spots, the Yangtze River Bridge, the Yellow Crane Tower, and national scenic spots, including the later East Lake Green Road, and so on.
现在群里每天都有医护人员寻求回武汉的车辆，2月8日一天我就统计了25个人。
Now every day in the group of medical personnel looking for vehicles back to Wuhan, February 8, I counted 25 people.
我希望尽快筹集防护物资，开启车队。
I hope to raise protective materials and open the convoy as soon as possible.
我希望疫情早点儿过去，武汉早点儿恢复到原来的样子。
I hope the epidemic will be over a little earlier and Wuhan will be back to what it used to be.
如果可能，我努力工作，在武汉买套房子安个家。
If possible, I worked hard to buy a house in Wuhan to make a home.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间 | 从湖北13个县市，送300个医护人员回武汉抗疫。
From 13 counties and cities in Hubei Province, 300 medical personnel returned to Wuhan to fight the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间 | 从湖北13个县市，送300个医护人员回武汉抗疫";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; from 13 counties in Hubei province.
var msg_desc = "希望疫情早点儿过去，武汉早点儿恢复到原来的样子。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Hope the outbreak was earlier; Wuhan recovered to its original condition.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨《我不是药神》抗疫版',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（三）：4个离家和回家的故事',。
Ritual: & amp; # 39; & # 45; Imaged Diary into the World; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
