「千奇百怪的出警，都跟新冠肺炎有关」。
"The odd police officers are all connected with the New Crown Pneumonia."
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
杨普（化名）是湖北的一名民警，他所在的县级市距离武汉约50公里，有百万人口。
Yang Pu (alias) is a police officer in Hubei, his county-level city is about 50 kilometers away from Wuhan, with a population of one million.
在疫情尚未明朗前，当地曾有大量居民往返武汉，包括从武汉返乡过年的打工者。
Before the outbreak became clear, a large number of local residents had traveled to and from Wuhan, including workers returning home for the Chinese New Year.
当疫情爆发点和重灾区被锁定在武汉后，大量目光也随之被吸引而去。
When the outbreak and the worst-hit areas were locked in Wuhan, a lot of attention was attracted to it.
一旁的小县城成了自顾不暇的「灯下黑」。
One side of the small county has become self-obsessed "black light."
1月23号上午10点武汉封城，当天下午杨普所在县级市开始封闭道路和交通。
January 23 10 a.m. Wuhan closed the city, that afternoon Yangpu county began to close roads and traffic.
为防控疫情，像所有医务人员一样，杨普这样的警察也要冲在一线。
To prevent and control the outbreak, police like Yang Pu, like all medical staff, are on the frontline.
他们要连上24小时班，值守在收治新型冠状病毒感染者的医院楼外、进出城的高速路口，排查疑似感染者，同时处理着城市中各种琐碎却必须的事情，有些甚至令人无奈和发笑，比如对路人不戴口罩的举报、封城后逐渐紧张的家庭关系等。
They are on 24-hour duty at high-speed junctions outside hospitals and in and out of the city for people infected with the new strain of the virus. They also deal with the trivial but necessary tasks of the city, some of which are even depressing and laughing, such as reports of passers-by wearing no masks, and increasingly tense family relationships behind closed doors.
防护物资都是缺乏的，大多时候他们只能戴上一层薄薄的口罩去抓那些企图闯卡的人。
Defensive items are scarce, and most of the time they wear a thin mask to catch people trying to break through the card.
进入2月后，他们有了防护服，只有在医院和设卡点这种风险系数高的地方才能穿，「都是一次性的，医生们穿上后里面都穿尿不湿」。
Once in February, they had protective clothing, which could only be worn at hospitals and checkpoints, where the risk factor was high, "it was all disposable and doctors wore urine inside."
「你们也穿了吗？」我问。
"Did you wear them, too?" I asked.
「我们不行。
"We can't.
去执勤干警少喝水，下岗才喝。
Go on duty and drink less water. Lay off before drinking.
」虽然看似坚强，但恐惧也同样缠绕着他们，殡仪车拉着病逝的死者从旁经过时，杨普都会下意识辨别一下风向，怕病毒随着风吹来附在自己身上。
"Though it seemed strong, fear also haunted them, and as the undertaker pulled the dying man by, Yang Pu subconsciously picked up the wind so that it wouldn't wind up on him.
以下为杨普的口述：文｜庞谢编辑｜糖槭          1现在接的警都跟以前不一样了。
less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than before
以前接警都是盗窃、诈骗、寻衅滋事之类的刑事案件或治安案件，现在全部是关于口罩，再就是哪家里吵、打牌，千奇百怪的警，都跟新冠肺炎有关。
Criminal cases or security cases, such as burglary, fraud and instigating quarrels, are now all about masks, as well as domestic quarrels, poker games and quirky police officers, all linked to pneumonia in the New Crown.
我们离武汉比较近，到武汉开车一小时，武汉封城前已经回来了几万人。
We are relatively close to Wuhan, to Wuhan driving an hour, Wuhan before the closure of the city has returned tens of thousands of people.
前期市里要求每个区域出行的人必须戴口罩才能走。
Earlier in the city, people traveling in every area were required to wear masks.
那时候接警有好多是因为在街上看到有人不戴口罩来举报的，说他没有口罩，我赶快打电话让你们来。
There were a lot of people on the street who said they didn't have a mask and I called you right away.
我们去的时候还不是警车里带几个口罩，去给他戴嘛，没有办法。
When we go to the police car is not a few masks, to wear him, there is no way.
之前有个智障人士，他有口罩，但他总是不戴，出去被人看到就报警，我们就拿着口罩发给他。
There was a man with a mental disability who had a mask, but he didn't wear it. When people saw him, he called the police and we gave him a mask.
等我们走了，别人又报警，说有个人不戴口罩，一去发现还是他。
When we left, others called the police and said that someone was not wearing a mask, to find him.
一天为那一个人要出好几个警。
Several policemen were called out for that man one day.
还有人因为买不到口罩跑到市政府吵，我接警去的，对方说我没有口罩，给我安排口罩。
There were also people who could not buy masks to go to the city, I went to the police, the other said I did not have a mask, I arranged for a mask.
封城以后，还有要吃的、要菜的，什么都报警。
After the closure of the city, there are to eat, to order food, everything to the police.
封城时间长了还出现一种变化，就是居家隔离的人家庭内部产生矛盾报警。
The closure of the city for a long time there has also been a change, is the isolation of the family within the contradictions within the police.
因为规定只要出现一个新冠肺炎感染者，整个小区都要封掉，街道办和居委会派人值守。
Because the regulation as long as a new crown pneumonia infected, the entire community should be closed down, street offices and neighborhood watch.
有个15岁的男孩在家待久了要出去，父母不准，怕有危险，儿子就和父母吵架，执意要出去，被父母打了，就打电话报警。
A 15-year-old boy stayed at home a long time to go out, parents are not allowed, afraid of danger, the son and his parents quarreled, insisted on going out, was hit by their parents, called the police.
没几分钟，他父母也报警说儿子还手打他们。
Minutes later, his parents also called the police and said their son hit them back.
被封闭的小区不准出入，有的还封了电梯和楼道，进出困难，我们只能视警情把握去不去人家里。
Closed small areas are not allowed to enter or leave, some have closed elevators and corridors, access difficulties, we can only take the police to go to people's homes.
一般不去，一是怕人家里有病毒，二是我们接触人多，也怕给别人带去了病毒，彼此感染，只能通过电话跟报警人做工作。
Do not generally, one is afraid of the virus in the home, the other is that we have contact with many people, but also afraid to bring others virus, mutual infection, can only work with the police through the telephone.
我们叫对方打开免提，通过电话与小孩沟通，讲外出危险性的原因，也给小孩父母做工作，不要动手打小孩，叫父母也跟孩子检讨打人不对，孩子听后有安慰感受，情绪逐步稳定，同意待家里了。
We asked each other to open hands, communicate with children on the phone, tell them the reason why it is dangerous to go out, also do work for the parents, do not hit the child, ask parents to review with their children hit wrong, the child has consolation feeling, gradually stable mood, agreed to stay at home.
还有一个妻子报警家暴，说丈夫待家久了就喝酒闹腾打老婆。
Another wife reported domestic violence to the police, saying that her husband drank and beat his wife when he stayed home long enough.
接警后，给丈夫打电话不接，不好做工作，也是因为怕互相感染又不能去人家里，只能跟妻子做工作，她同意我们说法，等隔离完了诉讼男的。
After answering the police, to call her husband, not to do a job, but also because of fear of mutual infection and can not go to the home, can only work with his wife, she agreed with us, until the separation of the men.
没别的法，干这些年都适应了，只有想办法解决矛盾，自己成了万金油，什么地方都能涂一点。
There is no other way, all these years have been used to, only to find a solution to the conflict, their own become a million dollars, anywhere can be painted.
别人报110你就必须要去处理。
You'll have to deal with it if you get called 110.
有时接到一些警都很棘手，不好搞。
Sometimes it's hard to get a cop.
大年初一，有个三十多岁的男的从封闭的小区里面翻墙跑出来，被街道办巡逻人员发现把他拉住，测体温发现他发热，他又不回去，这个时候就发生矛盾，他就打人。
On New Year's Day, a man in his thirties ran out of a closed cell and was caught by a street patrol. He was caught by a police patrol. His temperature was taken and he did not return.
街道办的报警后我们就去了，我们也不能辨别出他有没有病毒，他说体温高是因为自己喝酒了，乱扯，这个环境下哪个相信他说的话呢。
We went after the street office called the police, and we couldn't tell if he had a virus. He said the temperature was high because he was drinking and rambling.
我们也没办法，只能把他弄到车上跟我们一起回派出所。
We had no choice but to get him in the car and go back to the police station with us.
之前听专家说这个东西有唾液到眼睛里面去也会影响，就跟单位要求配发护目镜，所以当天我就戴了个口罩和护目镜。
Before listening to experts say this thing has saliva into the eyes will also affect, just like the unit asked to be issued goggles, so I wear a mask and goggles that day.
我们都很害怕啊，一个车子里坐着，我们就把车窗全部打开。
We were all scared. We sat in a car and we opened all the windows.
到所里再查还是发烧，就通知卫生部门来把他带到医院检查才能够处理。
If you come to the hospital to check up or have a fever, you should contact the health authorities to take him to the hospital for a check-up.
后来我们用酒精把车子都消毒了。
Then we disinfected the car with alcohol.
大年初一出警就碰到这个，把那个人带回来后，起码有两天我心里都不舒服，我觉得这个事情蛮危险，这个人有没有病？我们这么近距离坐在一起，会不会有危险？全副武装的警察 图源警民携手同行微博（图文无关）2一月十几号的时候，就已经有疫情传闻。
The police came across this on the first day of the Lunar New Year. After bringing the man back, I felt uncomfortable for at least two days. I thought it was dangerous. Was this man ill?
微信上面经常有一些朋友传视频回来，说这个病出现以后是肺部感染，有可能人传人，有的说是接触产生，有的说是唾液之类的。
The message is often sent back by a number of friends, said the disease after the emergence of lung infection, may be human-to-human, some said contact, some said saliva and so on.
我们都已经晓得这个病传染是会死人的，我们已经非常害怕。
We all know that this infection is deadly, and we are already very scared.
但当时我们市里还没有一点迹象，街上根本没人戴口罩，我自己都没有防护，大家还在准备过年。
But there was no sign of it in the city, no one was wearing masks, I had no protection myself, and everyone was still preparing for the New Year.
1月21号市政府开会说要预防新冠肺炎。
The city council met on January 21st to say it would prevent new crown pneumonia.
市里开会以后，公安局一切重心开始转向防控，调整排班，就不是以往的接警办案模式了。
After the city meeting, the Public Security Bureau began to turn all the focus on prevention and control, adjust the shift, is not the previous mode of case handling.
我们派出所所有警力，包括协警在内共四十多人，分五个班次值守——在所里值班，负责接出警；到医院感染科值守，隔离保护危重病人；在进出城关键路口设卡盘查，阻断传染源；发现疫情后被封锁的社区，也需要警察到那里去值守……24小时一个班，上一天休一天，有时还休不成。
Our police station, including the police, a total of more than 40 people, in five shifts - on duty in the hospital to pick up the police; to the hospital infection department to protect the critically ill; to stop the source of infection at key urban intersections; and to find blockaded communities where the police are needed 24-hour shifts, one day off, and sometimes no rest.
因为怕病人多了情绪不稳定或者争床位这类突发事件发生，我们也要到治疗新冠肺炎的医院感染科值守。
Because of fear of patients more emotional instability or disputes such as the emergence of beds, we also have to treat the nosocomial pneumonia hospital duty.
只有单独的一栋楼，我们就在出入口外10米远的地方，常看到里面死人，你说自己害不害怕？有一天医院里死了两个新冠肺炎的病人，为防止病源传出去，市里安排了殡仪馆的专人专车来敛尸，但来了以后呢，就出现了矛盾。
Only a single building, ten metres from the entrance and exit, where we often saw dead people inside, said you were not afraid? One day two patients died of pneumonia in the hospital. To prevent the spread of the disease, the city arranged for a funeral parlor to collect the body.
医院里没有专人从感染科把尸体运下来，殡仪馆的人说只负责把人拉走，也不愿进病房运尸。
There was no one in the hospital to remove the body from the infection department, and the undertakers said they were only responsible for taking the body away from the room.
没有人敢运，因为这个僵持了好几个小时，最后殡仪馆的人报了警。
No one dared, because the standoff lasted for hours until the undertaker finally called the police.
有些东西不该我们管的，现在也要插手。
There's something we shouldn't care about, and we need to get involved now.
我们联系医院领导后，他说安排医院保安运，保安也不愿意，院长说运一个给500块钱，保安说你给我5000也不运。
When we contacted the hospital director, he said he would not arrange for hospital security, and the security guard said that he would pay 500 yuan for one.
我们又去找保安公司，调节去调节来，最后保卫科科长找来两个年纪大点的保安，给他们发了防护服，才把尸体运下来弄到殡仪馆。
We went back to the security company, regulated it, and finally the chief of security got two older guards, gave them protective clothing, and took the body down to the funeral home.
之前那个说给5000也不干的保安第二天就真不干了，走了。
The security guard who said he wouldn't do anything for 5000 just quit the next day and left.
从那之后这两个保安就成了医院运尸的专人专员，有需要就打电话让他们来，穿防护服到医院楼上把尸体运下来，没有需要他们就在宾馆待着，医院给安排了房间住起来。
Since then, the two guards have been the hospital's specialist for transporting corpses, calling them if they need to, wearing protective clothing to the hospital upstairs to remove the bodies, without their need to stay at the hotel, the hospital was arranged to live in rooms.
反正是搞这方面的都不能回家。
Anyhow, we can't go home.
有些警察，如果跟病人有过近距离接触，也不回，住单位宿舍。
Some police officers, if they have been in close contact with a patient, do not return, live in a dormitory.
不敢回，不知道自己究竟感染到没有。
Do not dare to go back, do not know whether they are infected or not.
我值班的时候就睡在宿舍，有时候回家，我把工作服都脱了丢在车子里，穿很少跑进去马上洗澡。
When I was on duty, I slept in the dorm. Sometimes when I came home, I took off my work clothes and left them in my car.
我听说之前有个50岁左右的患者病逝后就装进尸袋了，他弟弟非说要看哥哥一眼，医生说那危险，你戴了口罩做了防护也不能去看。
I heard that a 50-year-old patient had been put in a body bag after his death. His brother insisted on seeing his brother. The doctor said it was dangerous.
但那个人还是趁医生和现场人员不备，强行把尸袋拉开，上去抱着哭了一下，医生发现后赶紧把他拉过来。
But the man took advantage of the doctor and the scene personnel do not prepare, forced open the body bag, went up to cry, the doctor found him hurriedly pulled him.
尸体传染性也很强，是要政府统一处理的，如果警方在场也不能让人随意接近尸体。
The bodies were also highly contagious and had to be handled centrally by the Government, and could not be accessed at will if the police were present.
前些天有个确诊的新冠肺炎病人，他要求到感染科住院，但感染科里面没有病床了，医生跟他解释说条件有限，我们给你开药，你要等着。
A few days ago, there was a confirmed case of pneumonia, he asked to be admitted to the infection department, but there is no bed in the infection department, the doctor explained to him that the conditions are limited, we give you medicine, you have to wait.
他不听，非要住进去。
He would not listen and insisted on living in.
这个病人跟医生和保卫科发生矛盾，扯起来了，扯到最后他说要走，哪个人能让他走呢？医院没有办法，就给派出所打电话。
The patient had an argument with the doctor and the guard, and finally he said he was leaving and who could let him go.The hospital had no choice but to call the police station.
我们派出所有几个民警在那里值守，就去帮着协调。
Our police station has a few police on duty there, go to help coordinate.
当时没有防护服，只能尽量站远一点跟人说话，病人还不听，朝你跟前使劲喊，为了把住院这个事情透露清楚，他把口罩都摘了。
There was no protective clothing and he had to stand as far away as he could to talk. The patient didn't listen and yelled at you so hard that he took off his mask to make sure the hospitalization was clear.
你说这怎么搞？他总要往外走，真从这走了，病情扩散出去怎么办？警察只有跟着他，再一边做工作，说我们另外找个位子给你加个床，医生给你专门看。
What do you think of it? He's always going out here, really. What if the disease spreads? The police will have to follow him and do the work again and say we'll find another seat to make a bed for you.
给他打点吊针什么的，暂时把他情绪稳定下来，人控制住，不能让这个病源外传。
Give him a sling or something, calm him down for a while, keep him in control, don't let the disease spread.
我们只能起这样调解的作用，最后怎么安置还是要听医院安排。
We can only play such a mediating role, the final placement or to listen to the hospital arrangements.
交通民警正在执勤图源网络（图文无关）3我们知道那个地方危险，应该穿防护服，但出警的时候穿那个不方便，当时也没有，只能够戴口罩和防护镜。
We knew the place was dangerous, we should wear protective clothing, but when the police wear that inconvenient, then no, can only wear masks and glasses.
作为医护人员也好，警察也好，都要冲在前面，其他职业还可以躲一下，像我们就没办法了，非得要把那个事情处理掉，你不处理怎么办？在这之前接了个警，我们这里辖区公共场所死了一个人，这非去不可啊。
The police, the paramedics, the cops, are all in the front, the rest of the profession can dodge, like we can't help it, we have to deal with it, what do you do if you don't handle it?
我们也不知道他是他杀还是自杀，还是新冠肺炎死的呢？我们就通知公安局的刑事技术侦查科，来了以后，穿着他们自己弄来的防护服（不是医院那种），没有防护眼镜，就用一个塑料袋把头套着。
We did not know whether he had killed himself or whether he had died of pneumonia, so we informed the Criminal Technical Investigation Department of the Public Security Bureau that, when they arrived, they were wearing the protective clothing they had obtained (not the hospital type) and had no protective glasses, so we put our heads in a plastic bag.
他说这叫我怎么进去，我眼睛都看不见。
He said how I could get in there. I couldn't see.
没有东西还不是要想办法克服困难上啊，最后找了几个游泳镜，开始搞尸检。
Nothing is still trying to overcome difficulties ah, finally found a few swimming mirror, began to do autopsy.
最后说应该是心脏的问题，但当时谁知道呢。
It was supposed to be a heart problem, but who knew.
尸检以后，我们安排殡仪车把尸体拉走，然后查他尸源，通知家属。
After the autopsy, we arranged for the undertaker's car to take the body away, then checked his body and informed the family.
当时都没有什么防护措施，武汉的防护器材都比较少，我们这里哪里有呢？我们是个县级市，连个三甲医院都没有，医疗资源很紧缺，都靠上面市里拨，这次的专家组到我们这儿的只有一个十几人的小医疗团队。
At that time, there were no protective measures, Wuhan protective equipment are relatively few, where we have? We are a county-level city, not even a triple A hospital, the medical resources are very scarce, rely on the city, this time the team of experts here only a dozen people small medical team.
物资就更缺了，到春节时候所里才配发口罩，每人每天能领到一个N95口罩，但前天发通知说医疗资源紧缺，除了在医疗点、隔离点这些高风险地方工作的人，其他公务员都不能戴N95口罩了，只能戴普通防护口罩。
Supplies are even more scarce, to the Spring Festival in the hospital before wearing masks, each person can receive a daily N95 mask, but the day before the notification that medical resources are scarce, except in high-risk locations such as medical points, isolation points, other civil servants can not wear N95 masks, only ordinary respirators.
2月初，我们所才弄到防护服，也是到医院和卡口排查的人才能领到。
At the beginning of February, we were able to obtain protective clothing, which was also given to people who were at the hospital and at the checkpoint.
卡口基本都设在进出城关键路口，检查来往车辆，车子停下来看车上有几个人，要核实身份，测体温，查看有没有通行证。
The gates are generally located at key intersections in and out of the city, checking traffic, stopping to see how many people are on board, checking their identities, taking their temperature and checking for passes.
通行证一般是由医院、市防疫指挥部、各乡镇厂的开具的，运送病人、生活物资之类的，都查完没问题之后才让入城。
The permit is generally issued by the hospital, city epidemic prevention headquarters, township factories, the transport of patients, living materials, and so on, after the investigation of no problems before let into the city.
不然里面坐的一些人我们也不知情，有的说到医院去看病，是看什么病我们也不知道。
Otherwise, we do not know some of the people sitting inside, some said the hospital to see a doctor, is to see what disease we do not know.
有的从下面乡镇送来的病人，谁知道他是不是病毒携带者呢，都得查明。
Some of the patients sent from the town below, who knows if he is the carrier of the virus, have to find out.
城里的恐慌情绪也比较高。
There is also more panic in the city.
曾经遇到个老人，快70岁了，自己步行到卡口，说他住的那个小区被封了，自己偷偷跑出来，不想在城里住，要回农村老家去。
Once met an old man, nearly 70 years old, walked to the mouth of the card, said that he lived in the community was sealed off, secretly ran out, do not want to live in the city, to return to the rural home.
什么都不拿就要出城。
Get out of town without taking anything.
我们又不知道他得没得病，不能让他过，他非要走。
We don't know he's not sick. We can't let him go. He's got to go.
劝的时候我们尽量保持一米左右的距离，但他说不明白的时候，就把口罩扒下来跟你说。
When advised, we try to maintain a distance of about one meter, but when he said do not understand, take off the mask to tell you.
你说你怕不怕？这倒不是拿刀杀你，但也是隐藏的危险。
You say you are not afraid? This is not to kill you with a knife, but it is a hidden danger.
最后还是让他回去，说不能走，你走也走不回家，不光是我们这一道拦，前面还有很多地方路口都不让你过。
Finally let him go back, said can not go, you can not walk home, not only we block this, there are many places in front of you are not allowed to cross.
人民都很恐惧，我们自己也是。
The people are afraid, and so are we.
有时候殡仪馆的车来医院拉尸源从旁边过，我们都说要看一下风向，怕吹过来感染到。
Sometimes the undertaker's car came to the hospital to pull the corpse from the side, we all said to look at the wind, for fear of infection.
原来说谈虎色变，现在是谈这毒色变，一提到这个问题个个都害怕。
The original talk of change, is talking about the poison change, every mention of this issue are afraid.
我们市公安局里也有两个人感染了，大家都很紧张，跟同事也要保持距离啊，早晨到单位吃饭的时候我都不和大家一块吃。
Our city public security bureau also has two people infected, we are very nervous, with colleagues to maintain a distance ah, in the morning I do not eat with everyone at work.
保护别人的前提是要保护自己，自己都保护不了就完了。
The premise of protecting others is to protect themselves, can not protect themselves on the end.
但作为警察，该办的事还得办。
But as a cop, I have to do something.
死人了，你必须要去啊。
Dead man. You have to go.
活人，他得了病，你要解决问题也得去。
Living man, he's ill, and you're gonna have to deal with it.
一线工作中的警察 图源中国警察网（图文无关）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
2-D Focus on People More exciting stories are waiting for you, according to the China Police Network, which focuses on people in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
「千奇百怪的出警，都跟新冠肺炎有关」。
"The odd police officers are all connected with the New Crown Pneumonia."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "「千奇百怪的出警，都跟新冠肺炎有关」";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一个疫区警察的故事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a story about a police officer in an infected area.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
