自如遭投诉涨租最高30%。
Up to 30% for ease of complaint.
一条君。
A prince.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：吴波“自如回应涨租是个例，但租客并不认同。
Reporter: Wu Po is a case in point, but the tenant does not agree.
”因疫情在家办公的北京自如管家们，却出乎意料的比任何时候都更忙。
Beijing's housekeepers, who work from home because of the epidemic, are unexpectedly busier than ever.
2月10日一整天，一位负责北京区域的自如管家，不断回复着自如客关于续租涨租的电话咨询。
Feb. 10, a homely housekeeper in charge of the Beijing area continued to respond to phone inquiries from comfortable guests about the renewal of rent increases.
与此同时，自如客对于疫情期间续租涨租的愤怒情绪，也一波一波见诸社交媒体。
Meanwhile, anger over rent increases during the epidemic is spreading through social media.
短短一个春节假期，北京朝阳区一位自如客刘欣就发现续租租金上涨了好几百。
Just a short Spring Festival, Beijing Chaoyang District a comfortable guest Liu Xin found that the rent has increased several hundred.
刘欣租住的自如单间月租金是2460元，2月8日发起续租时却被自如管家告知月租金为2830元。
Liu Xin, who rents a single room at 2, 460 yuan a month, was told by her housekeeper that the rent was 2830 yuan a month when she started the renewal on February 8.
这意味着，除了随之上涨的月服务费，刘欣的房租上涨了15%。
That means Ms. Liu's rent is up 15%, in addition to the rising cost of the monthly service.
据界面新闻记者了解，这并非孤例。
According to the interface journalists, this is not an isolated case.
随着大量外来务工人员返城，租房和租金问题成为讨论热点，不少自如客忽然发现自己“被涨租”了，他们组成了多个维权群，投诉各自面临的涨租境遇。
As large numbers of migrant workers return to the city, the issue of renting and renting has become a hot topic, and a number of easy-to-use guests suddenly find themselves "rented," forming groups of activists to complain about rising rents.
据记者了解，续租涨租情况确实存在，涨价幅度在10%-30%之间。
According to the reporter understand that the extension of the lease situation does exist, price increases in the range of 10% to 30%.
自如方面今日回应媒体称，目前媒体关注到个例，公司确认多为原长租客临时希望短期续约引起的。
In response to media reports today, the media attention to the specific case, the company confirmed that most of the original long-term tenants temporary wish to renew the contract caused.
我们本来是鼓励长租，更稳定也有利于安全管理。
We would have encouraged long-term rent, more stability and better security management.
但现在是特殊时期，有短续需求，我们可以理解，也会尽快推出相应便利措施。
But these are special times, with short-term needs, which we can understand and which will be facilitated as soon as possible.
还有可能因为业主合约变动等其他因素引起的价格浮动，我们也会根据租客实际跟进解决。
It is also possible that other factors such as changes in the landlord's contract may cause the price to fluctuate. We will also follow up with the tenant.
短租成本高于长租是租房行业常识。
Short lease cost is higher than long rental industry common sense.
界面新闻从一位自如管家处了解到，自如现推出一项短租政策——“针对2月到期但无法返回租住地的租客可以短续。
Interface News has learned from a comfortable housekeeper that a short-term rent policy - "for tenants who expire in February but are unable to return to their rental properties - can be put in place.
租金为正常续约价格基础上再涨15%租金。
The rent is subject to a 15 per cent increase on the normal contract price.
自如会申请租金卡，将上涨的15%价格抵消，但这仅适用于疫情期间客户。
Flexibility would apply for a rental card, which would offset a 15 per cent increase in price, but this would only apply to customers during the outbreak.
非疫情期间，还是会涨15%。
It's still going up 15% during the non-epidemic.
”界面新闻联系自如方面询问涨租情况，自如未予以回应。
The user interface news contact freely aspect asks the rent situation, freely does not give the response.
涨租是个例吗？自如客对于自如回应并不认同。
Is rent-raising the exception? Easy-going customers do not agree with ease of response.
自如客向界面新闻反映，涨租是普遍情况，并不只是针对“原长租客临时希望短期续约”这一特殊情况。
Easy customer to the interface news, rent is a general situation, not just for the "original long-term tenant temporary wish to renew the special case."
北京大望路一位长租自如客向界面新闻记者表示，2017年9月30日，她租下的一间自如合租房月租金是2860元，加上服务费和手续费月租金是3000元左右，这一价格现上涨至3799元。
On Sept. 30, 2017, she rented a rental flat for 2,860 yuan a month, plus about 3,000 yuan for service and handling fees, which is rising to 3,799 yuan, an interface reporter said.
续租就要被高比例涨价，因疫情不能返回租住地，不续租又被单方面解约，不能搬家就得支付违约金。
Renewing the lease will be a high proportion of price increases, because the epidemic can not return to the rental land, non-renewal of the lease and unilateral cancellation, can not move will have to pay penalty.
一位自如客称，他并未同意解约，却收到来自自如的解约信息。
One at ease said he did not agree to break the contract, but received a free message from the release.
自如管家说，让他在16日完成搬家。
Said the housekeeper, let him finish moving on the 16th.
为什么涨价？刘欣的管家告诉她，“以前续租规则是房租上涨不超过原房租百分之三。
Why did the price increase? Liu Xin's housekeeper told her, "The old lease rule was that rents should not rise more than three percent of the original rent.
但今年2月份规则改为根据市场行情定价。
But the February rule was changed to market-driven pricing.
“上述自如管家也告诉界面新闻，涨价是市场行为，“天通苑一间2100元合租房，市场行情价已经涨到2700元，自如这边已经承受不了这种损失。
"The above-mentioned housekeeper also told the interface news that the price increase is market behavior," Tiantong Yuan a 2100 yuan rental, the market price has risen to 2700 yuan, freely this side can not bear the loss.
”疫情期间爆发的涨租矛盾，事实上已由来已久。
The rent hikes that erupted during the epidemic have in fact been around for a long time.
面对连年上涨的租金，租客们难免情绪不平，“房东承受不了，自如承受不了，难道租客就应该承受吗？”早在2018年8月，北京住建委联合市银监局、市金融局、市税务局等部门，就集中约谈自如、相寓、蛋壳公寓等主要住房租赁企业负责人。
As early as August 2018, the Beijing Municipal Banking and Building Commission, the Municipal Finance Bureau, the Municipal Tax Bureau and other departments focused on interviewing the heads of major housing rental enterprises such as comfortable apartments and egg-shell apartments.
住建委明确要求住房租赁企业：不得利用银行贷款等融资渠道获取的资金恶性竞争抢占房源；不得以高于市场水平的租金或哄抬租金抢占房源；不得通过提高租金诱导房东提前解除租赁合同等方式抢占房源。
The Housing and Building Commission has clearly demanded that housing leasing enterprises not use the funds obtained by bank loans and other financing channels to cut-throat competition for housing resources, that they should not appropriate housing resources at above-market rents or inflate rents, and that they should not induce landlords to cancel their rental contracts in advance by raising rents.
彼时自如CEO熊林声明称，这个行业本质应该是靠规模化、精细化、低成本运营驱动的低毛利行业，如果只有一个管理指标就是出租率，30万间存量情况下，出租率降低一个点，月收入减少1500万；而提高出租率最管用的一个办法就是平出房价，所以六年来自如客户端的价格涨幅远低于市场整体涨幅。
'This industry should be a low-margin industry driven by scale, refinement and low-cost operations, with a occupancy rate of one point and a monthly revenue drop of 15 million if there is only one management indicator, 'said Xiong Lin, then CEO of the company.
此次约谈后，北京房租依旧在上涨。
After the interview, rents in Beijing are still rising.
而熊林给出的数据和解释也未能消除外界对于长租公寓哄抬租金的印象，自如作为长租公寓头部企业的涨租行为也饱受诟病，屡遭投诉。
The data and explanations provided by Xiong Lin have also failed to dispel the impression that rents are being inflated in long-rented apartments, and the rise in rents in companies that can easily head long-rented apartments has been criticized repeatedly.
追根溯源，涨租背后是企业自身经营和盈利目标的压力。
Tracing the roots, behind the rent increase is the pressure of the enterprise's own operating and profit targets.
自如等二房东模式企业的盈利方式，一般是通过收房、融资、租房使用的租金贷，获得租金差、利率差和资金差。
Easy to wait for the model of the two landlords of the profitability of enterprises, generally through the use of housing, financing, rental rental loans, access to rental differences, interest rates and poor financing.
但归根结底，盈利逻辑还是基于预期中的租金上涨。
But, ultimately, the logic of profitability is based on expected rent increases.
但从目前的情况来看，不管是租金差还是租金上涨都不如预期。
But for now, neither rent spreads nor rent increases are as good as expected.
因此，去年自如成立了新的“止血”部门，调动全国收房业务员工，与业主进行交涉，降低收房价格，效果却不理想，很多业主与自如解除了合同。
As a result, a new "Stop Blood" department was set up last year to mobilize staff across the country to negotiate with homeowners to lower their house prices, with unsatisfactory results, and many owners were able to terminate their contracts.
一位北京大兴自如客向界面新闻表示，他租住自如合租房马上到期了，但疫情期间却不能继续续租，得重新找房子搬家。
A comfortable Beijing customer told the Interface News that he was renting a comfortable flat that was about to expire, but could not continue renting it during the epidemic and had to find a new home to move.
原因在于，该房源为“止血房源”。
The reason is that the source of the house is "bleeding house source."
所谓止血房源，就是说自如内部亏损房源，因业主不同意降租，只能解除合同进行止血。
The so-called hemostatic source, that is to say, freely internal loss of housing resources, because owners do not agree to rent, can only rescind the contract to stop bleeding.
自如管家也称，资产收益率不见好转的房源，自如就会禁止收房。
Easy housekeeper also said that the rate of return on assets does not improve the house source, ease will prohibit the closure.
自2018年开始，长租公寓行业状况急转直下，运营商资金链危机频发或陷入盈利困境。
Since 2018, the long-term rental apartment industry situation has changed sharply, operators frequent financial chain crisis or into a profit dilemma.
自如还未上市，是否盈利外界无从知晓，但同类型长租公寓上市企业，青客和蛋壳目前均未摆脱盈利困境。
So far has not been listed, whether the profit is unknown, but the same type of long-rental apartments listed enterprises, green customers and eggshells are not out of the profit dilemma.
作为第一家长租公寓美股上市企业，青客公寓连年亏损。
As the first parents rent apartments listed in the United States, Green Guest apartment year after year loss.
其招股书显示，公司2017年净亏2.45亿元，2018年亏损增加至3.24亿元，截至2019年前9个月净亏3.73亿元。
Its prospectus showed a net loss of $245 million in 2017, a loss of $324 million in 2018 and a net loss of $373 million for the first nine months of 2019.
蛋壳公寓虽有诸多机构加持，上市时还募资超过1.49亿美元（约合10.4亿元人民币），但同样未解决亏损难题。
Egg-shell apartments, with more than $149 million (1.04 billion yuan) raised by the time they went public, have also failed to address the loss problem.
蛋壳公寓招股书显示，最近三年亏损高达41亿元——2017年、2018年分别净亏2.72亿元和13.69亿元；2019年前9个月，净亏25.16亿元。
Egg shell apartment prospectuses showed losses of 4.1 billion yuan in the past three years - a net loss of 272 million yuan in 2017 and 1,369 million yuan in 2018, and a net loss of 2,516 million yuan in the first nine months of 2019.
截至去年11月，自如就宣布房源数量已经突破100万间，这一数字是蛋壳公寓同期房源数的2倍多。
As of November last year, it announced that the number of homes had exceeded one million, more than double the number of eggshell apartments in the same period.
成立8年多，自如在运营、产品和服务上一直不断提升，算是行业领跑者。
Founded more than eight years, comfortable in the operation, products and services has been continuously upgraded, is the industry leader.
在共同抗疫的特殊时期，自如的涨价是个别情况、市场行为，还是“趁火打劫”？还未有定论。
In the special period of common fight against epidemic, whether the natural price increase is individual case, market behavior, or "plunder" is not conclusive.
此外，据记者了解，除了随意涨租，自如客对于自如的投诉还有自如服务——未能实施相应的清洁、消毒、检测和隔离工作。
In addition, according to the reporter, in addition to arbitrary rent increases, easy access to complaints and services - failure to implement the corresponding cleaning, disinfection, testing and isolation.
多位自如客向界面新闻反映，在春节以及疫情期间，自如并未兑现公区清洁、消毒工作，而服务费照收。
Many customers freely to the interface news, during the Spring Festival and the epidemic period, freely did not cash in the public area cleaning, disinfection work, and service charges.
也有自如客反映，对于来自湖北以及武汉租客，自如并未承担租客隔离工作。
There is also a user response, from Hubei and Wuhan renters, so easy to bear the tenant isolation work.
但这些问题是否应该由自如等“二房东”管起来，也没有统一标准。
But these questions should be easy to wait for the "second landlord" control, there is no unified standard.
如熊林所言，简单的C2C平台模式一定是低效、低质、不安全的，做C2B2C模式道理明显，复杂度极高，供给、装修、配置、服务、品质、安全不一而足。
As Xiong Lin said, the simple C2C platform model must be inefficient, low quality, unsafe, do C2B2C model is obvious, complexity, supply, decoration, configuration, services, quality, security.
除了涨租，甲醛风波、隔断问题也是困扰自如以及整个长租行业的老问题，能否找到行之有效的解决办法，考验着管理者的智慧。
In addition to rent-raising, formaldehyde storm, isolation is also a problem with ease and the long-term rental industry as a whole, whether to find effective solutions, test the wisdom of managers.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
自如遭投诉涨租最高30%。
Up to 30% for ease of complaint.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "自如遭投诉涨租最高30%";。
var msg _ title = & quot; at ease with a complaint and a rent increase of up to 30%;;
var msg_desc = "自如回应涨租是个例，但租客并不认同。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Rise at ease is the exception, but the tenant does not.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
