武汉市委书记：1499名重症患者全部入院，11日所有疑似患者检测或清零。
Wuhan party secretary: 1499 patients with severe illness were all admitted to hospital, 11 days all suspected patients test or zero.
牛其昌。
Niu Qichang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：海洛创意记者：牛其昌“ 经过排查，疑似患者是否已检测完毕？马国强表示，虽然尽了最大的努力来加快检测效率，但到目前为止还没有完全做到疑似患者检测清零，目标是到明天完成所有疑似患者检测的清零。
Photo: Hailo Creative Journalist: Niu Qichang "After screening, suspected patients have been tested?" Although Ma Guoqiang has done his best to speed up the detection efficiency, but so far has not completely achieved the suspected patient detection clearance, the goal is to complete all suspected patient testing by tomorrow.
”疑似患者是否已检测完毕？2020年2月10日，在湖北省召开新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作例行新闻发布会上，湖北省委副书记、武汉市委书记马国强回应称，虽然尽了最大的努力加快检测效率，但是到目前为止还没有完全做到。
At a regular press conference on Feb. 10, 2020, Wuhan Guoqiang, deputy secretary of the Hubei provincial Party committee and Wuhan municipal party secretary, responded that despite his best efforts to speed up detection, it has not yet been fully achieved.
“疑似患者检测，我们的目标是到明天完成所有疑似患者检测的清零。
"Suspected patient testing, we aim to complete all suspected patient testing by tomorrow.
”截至2月9日24时，湖北省新增病例2618例，累计报告29631例，死亡871例，病死率2.94%。
As of 2400 hours February 9, 2,618 new cases had been reported in Hubei province, with a cumulative total of 29,631 reported deaths and 871 deaths, representing a fatality rate of 2.94 percent.
据悉，武汉近日开展了全民健康普查，截至2月9日，共排查3371个社区、村，共计421万户，1059万人，户数排查的百分比达到98.6%，人数排查的百分比达到了99%。
As of February 9, a total of 3.71 million communities and villages had been checked by Wuhan, with 4.21 million households and 10.59 million people, with 98.6 percent of the households checked and 99 percent screened.
据马国强介绍，经过排查，到2月8日仍有确诊的重症患者1499人没有得到入院治疗。
According to Ma Guoqiang, after screening, as of February 8, there are still 1499 patients diagnosed with serious illness has not been hospitalized.
截至2月10日中午，经过努力开拓病床来全力收治，这1499名重症确诊患者已全部入院。
By noon on February 10, 1,499 critically ill patients had been admitted to the hospital, thanks to efforts to open up beds for full treatment.
在救治方面，武汉利用方舱医院模式来接收治疗轻症患者，利用武汉的三家重点医院——同济、协和、人民医院来开拓重症患者的病床；同时在医疗救治的过程中，将坚持采用中西医结合进行治疗。
In terms of medical treatment, Wuhan uses the model of the Fang Cao Hospital to receive and treat patients with light ailments, and uses three key hospitals in Wuhan - Tongji, Concorde and People's Hospital - to open up beds for seriously ill patients.
经过排查，疑似患者是否已检测完毕？马国强表示，虽然尽了最大的努力来加快检测效率，但到目前为止还没有完全做到疑似患者检测清零，目标是到明天完成所有疑似患者检测的清零。
After screening, whether the suspected patient has been tested? Ma said that despite his best efforts to speed up the test efficiency, but so far has not completely achieved suspected patient detection clearance, the goal is to complete all suspected patient testing by tomorrow.
“大家可能看到我们公布出来的数字里边，可能还有疑似患者，这是为什么呢？因为我们每天新增的疑似患者从采样到检测，到结果回来，有一定的时效。
"You could see that there may be a suspect in our published numbers, and that's why? There's a time limit on the number of new patients we add every day, from sampling to testing to the return of the results.
另外根据我们的检测的规程，一次检测阴性还不能完全排除，所以要等待一天以后再检测一次阴性才能排除，而确诊只要是阳性就可以确诊。
And according to our protocol, a negative test cannot be ruled out completely, so wait a day before a negative test can be ruled out, and a positive diagnosis can be made.
”马国强表示。
Mr Ma said.
值得关注的是，目前仍有患者家属反映存在入院难等困难，目前具体还有多少患者没有入院治疗？如何实现患者应收尽收的目标？马国强表示，通过各个街道社区摸排，目前还有疑似患者当中的重症没有得到入院治疗，通过近两天的努力，已经将疑似患者当中的重症送到非定点医院进行一些简单治疗和隔离。
It is worth noting that there are still family members who report difficulties such as hospitalization difficulties, how many patients are not hospitalized, and how to achieve the goal of receiving what patients should receive.
同时还将加快检测，确诊后随着病床的不断拓展，相信会加快收治和入院的速度。
At the same time will speed up the testing, diagnosis after the hospital beds continue to expand, believed to speed up the admission and admission rate.
从临床救治的情况来看，目前的治愈率情况如何？武汉市金银潭医院院长张定宇表示，“新冠肺炎实际是一种自限性疾病。
"The new crown pneumonia is actually a self-limited disease," said Zhang Dingyu, director of the gold and silver pool hospital in Wuhan.
目前在我们医院的治愈率还是很高的。
The cure rate in our hospital is still very high.
目前我院收治的患者累计超过1500例，绝大部分患者包括重症患者经过各种氧疗、对症治疗和免疫调节治疗后，均可以顺利出院，市民不必过分恐慌。
At present, more than 1500 patients have been admitted to our hospital. Most of them, including severe patients, can be discharged smoothly after various oxygen therapy, symptomatic treatment and immunomodulation therapy.
”张定宇介绍，现在的诊疗方案较早期有了一些进步。
Zhang Dingyu said there had been some progress in the diagnosis and treatment programme since its early days.
在诊断方面，湖北省不再强调核酸检测作为唯一的确诊标准；在临床分型上增加轻型这一类型；确诊患者推荐用药有所增加；出院标准有规范，患者临床症状消失，核酸检测两次阴性，肺部影像学显示炎症明显吸收方可出院。
In terms of diagnosis, Hubei Province no longer emphasizes nucleic acid testing as the only diagnostic criteria; increases in the type of light in clinical typing; increases in the number of drugs recommended for diagnosis; standardized criteria for discharge from the hospital, disappearance of clinical signs in patients, two negative nucleic acid tests and significant absorption of inflammation in lung imaging before discharge from the hospital.
有网友提问，武汉市防护服每日还是存在缺口，对防护服进行消杀后是否可以循环使用？是否有可操作性？消杀后的防护服效果是否影响防护？张定宇表示，关于防护物品，如果是一次性防护服，使用基本要求是不能反复使用。
Some netizens have asked whether there is a daily gap in the protective clothing of Wuhan city. Can it be recycled after the protective clothing is eliminated? Is it operable? Does the effect of the protective clothing affect the protection? Zhang Dingyu said that in the case of disposable protective clothing, the basic requirements cannot be used repeatedly.
例如目前使用的一次性防护服、口罩、鞋套、靴套等均不能消毒后重新再循环使用。
For example, current use of disposable protective clothing, masks, shoe covers, shoes cover, etc. can not be disinfected and re-used after recycling.
但是有些可以重复使用，比如护目镜、胶鞋等防护用品经过消毒、灭菌达到相应的消毒规范以后可以循环使用。
But some can be reused, such as goggles, rubber shoes and other protective products after disinfection, sterilization reached the corresponding sterilization norms can be recycled.
谈及目前武汉市的轻症转重症患者如何进行转院，每家定点医疗机构的医疗资源是否满足就已需要时，武汉市卫生健康委员会主任张红星表示，转诊一般要遵循就近转诊的原则，目前全市各定点医疗机构我们根据病例收治情况来配置医疗资源。
Zhang Hongxing, director of Wuhan Municipal Health Commission, said that referral should generally follow the principle of referring patients to nearby hospitals. We allocate medical resources according to the case intake situation in designated medical institutions.
“对于轻症患者由于病情变化转向重症，将快速启动转诊机制，由患者所在的医疗机构通知市指挥部医疗救治组，再由转运专班协调安排，将患者转诊制相应的定点医疗机构。
"Referral mechanisms will be activated quickly for patients with mild cases who have turned serious due to changes in their condition. Medical institutions in which the patients are located will notify the medical treatment team of the Municipal Command, which will then coordinate the transfer of patients to the appropriate designated medical institutions."
包括医护人员的配置，防护物质的配备，当前各定点医疗机构的首要任务就是对明确诊断的病例中的重症，危重症和疑似病例的危重症进行集中收治。
At present, the primary task of the designated medical institutions is to provide intensive care for serious, critical and suspected cases in clearly diagnosed cases.
”张红星表示。
"said Zhang.
据悉，随着全国“开工日”的来临，武汉市近日公布方案，提出对在省外滞留市民启动返汉安排。
It is reported that with the advent of the national "start day," Wuhan city recently announced plans to put in place in the province of the remaining citizens to start Han arrangements.
谈及如何落实这一方案时，马国强表示，很重要的是要解决两个方面的问题：第一，籍贯或者常住武汉，由于春节的原因到了外地，现在希望回到武汉来；第二，另外一类人员就是在武汉工作，由于春节前赶回自己的家乡去过春节，现在需要返回武汉工作的。
He said it was important to solve two problems: first, local residents or residents of Wuhan, who had been away for the Spring Festival and now wished to return to Wuhan; second, the other group of people who had returned to Wuhan for the Spring Festival because they had been to their hometown before the Spring Festival, needed to return to Wuhan to work.
“目前疫情防控正处在胶着状态，药房、超市、酒店如果要正常运转起来，满足生活需要，需要这些人返回武汉。
"At present, the epidemic prevention and control is in a stalemate, pharmacies, supermarkets, hotels if they are to function properly to meet the needs of life, these people need to return to Wuhan.
具体的落实就是由用工单位提出需求，由政府来保障交通，确保他们能够顺利、安全地返回武汉，投入到各项工作当中去。
The concrete implementation is put forward by the employers, the government to guarantee the traffic, to ensure that they can return to Wuhan smoothly and safely, put into all kinds of work.
”马国强表示。
Mr Ma said.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉市委书记：1499名重症患者全部入院，11日所有疑似患者检测或清零。
Wuhan party secretary: 1499 patients with severe illness were all admitted to hospital, 11 days all suspected patients test or zero.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉市委书记：1499名重症患者全部入院，11日所有疑似患者检测或清零";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan party secretary: 1,499 seriously ill patients were admitted to hospital, and all suspected patients tested or cleared or quot; 11 days later.
var msg_desc = "经过排查，疑似患者是否已检测完毕？马国强表示，虽然尽了最大的努力来加快检测效率，但到目前为止还没有完全做到疑似患者检测清零，目标是到明天完成所有疑似患者检测的清零。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Has the suspected patient been tested? Mr. Ma says that despite his best efforts to speed up testing, so far he hasn't fully tested positive for suspected patients, and aims to have all suspected patients tested zero by tomorrow.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
