试剂盒困局：为何确诊这么难？。
Troubleshooting: Why is diagnosis so difficult?
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
试剂盒的供给端产量充足，并非“供不应求”，而是卡在了春节运力紧张、高门槛的检测条件、以及相关药品资质的审批上。
The supply side of the kit is plentiful, not "in short supply," but stuck in the Spring Festival capacity constraints, high threshold testing conditions, and the approval of relevant drug qualifications.
为此，国家药监局已于近日开启快速审批通道。
To this end, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision has recently opened a fast-track approval channel.
记者 | 黄子懿 严岩除夕夜：12万人份的试剂盒▲▲▲1月24日，大年三十，上海小雨。
Ran Yi Ran Yan Yan New Year's Eve: 120,000 people test kit January 24, about 30, Shanghai Xiaoyu.
闵行区龙吴路银都路上，四车道的马路上看不到一个人影。
On Yindu Road, Long Wu Road, Minhang District, no one was seen on the four-lane road.
拐进一个园区，看到一栋楼亮着灯，远远望去就看见不少戴着口罩的人，在合作装配一箱箱盒子。
Turn into a park, see a building lights, from a distance to see a lot of people wearing masks, in cooperation to assemble a box box.
盒子不大，红紫色的壳，远看像是一个药盒。
The box was small, with a reddish-purple shell that looked like a medicine box from a distance.
这样一个盒子，是诊断武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎的关键所在。
Such a box is the key to the diagnosis of Wuhan's new coronavirus pneumonia.
新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒这些盒子都是即将送往武汉疫区的“核酸检测试剂盒”，由上海捷诺生物科技公司研发，这家公司是国家卫健委公布确认的三家试剂盒生产、采购公司之一。
New Coronavirus Nucleic Acid Detection Kit These boxes are DNA test kits that will be sent to Wuhan Epidemic Area and are being developed by Shanghai-based Tenovirus Biotech Corporation, one of three test kit manufacturing and purchasing companies announced by the State Sanitary Commission.
一个长宽与智能手机大小差不多的盒子，可供50人使用。
A box about the size of a smartphone can be used by 50 people.
在阴雨连绵的大年三十，捷诺的相关工作人员对本刊记者表示，公司目前正在加班加点赶工，一共60-70个人连轴转，当天预计在下班前可以完成生产12万人份的工作量，不眠不休可以更多。
The company is working overtime, 60 to 70 people in a row, and is expected to produce 120,000 people by the end of the day, more without sleep, according to Jeno's staff.
新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情仍在蔓延，在湖北武汉、黄冈、孝感等多地，用于确诊的检测试剂盒却火线告急，大量患者徘徊在医院门外，无法及时确诊。
The new coronavirus pneumonia is still spreading, in Hubei Wuhan, Huanggang, filial piety, and other places, but the test kit used for the diagnosis is urgent, a large number of patients wandering outside the hospital, can not be diagnosed in time.
危难之际，生产商在加班加点地赶工，满足应急之需。
In times of crisis, manufacturers are working overtime to meet emergency needs.
除上海捷诺之外，国家卫健委还确认了上海伯杰、上海辉睿作为官方认可的供应商。
In addition to Shanghai Tenero, the national health committee also confirmed Shanghai Berger, Shanghai Pfizer as an officially recognized supplier.
“注定是个不平凡的除夕，注定是个不平凡的年。
"Is destined to be an extraordinary New Year's Eve, is destined to be an extraordinary year.
”除夕夜零点将近时，美国佛罗里达大学博士、宁波海尔施基因科技有限公司技术总监吴勇发了一条朋友圈。
Near midnight on New Year's Eve, Wu Yongfa, PhD, a PhD at the University of Florida and technical director of Ningbo Helch Genomics, created a circle of friends.
照片上，员工们在会议室内，用PPT讨论着检测试剂盒。
In the photos, the staff were in the conference room, discussing the test kit with PPT.
参会的十几人中，每人点了一份肯德基外卖作为年夜饭。
Each of the dozen people who attended the meeting ordered a KFC takeaway as a New Year's Eve meal.
随后，一位技术人员穿着防护服、戴着护目镜与口罩，走进了灭菌室。
A technician wearing protective clothing, goggles and a mask then walked into the sterilization room.
海尔施基因科技也是能生产新型冠状病毒检测试剂的公司之一。
Haier gene technology can also be one of the production of a new coronavirus detection reagent.
吴勇介绍，临床诊断试剂盒生产是成熟的工业体系，国内有多家生产IVD核酸检测试剂盒的公司。
Wu Yong, clinical diagnostic kit production is a mature industrial system, there are a number of domestic production of IVD nucleic acid test kit companies.
去年12月8日，武汉发现首例病例，1月11日科研机构公布基因组序列信息，约有30个厂家在一周内便研发出针对新型冠状病毒检测试剂。
The first case was detected in Wuhan on December 8, 2006, and the genome sequence was released on January 11, 2007. About 30 manufacturers developed a new coronavirus detection reagent within a week.
虽然国家疾控中心只推荐了三家企业的采购名单，但名单之外的企业也在加班加点生产。
Although the CDC recommended only three listings, companies outside the list also worked overtime.
极快的研发与生产进度，对应的是超高的需求，来自以武汉为重点的全国各地。
Rapid R & D and production schedule, corresponding to the high demand, from Wuhan as the focus of the whole country.
一家试剂盒生产商透露，试剂盒紧缺不仅存在于武汉，在沿海、西南等地，很多医院和疾控系统已开始大量进货试剂盒，以供疑似病例的确诊。
A manufacturer of kits has revealed that shortages of test kits exist not only in Wuhan, but also in coastal and southwestern China, where many hospitals and disease control systems have begun to stock up on test kits for confirmation of suspected cases.
“本来我们准备的是每日几千人份的，现在看产量可能得增加到每日上万人份。
"We were going to be preparing a few thousand copies a day, and now it's possible to increase production to tens of thousands a day.
”吴勇说，目前公司节奏极为紧张，市场销售人员满负荷运转，上游供应链企业也紧急开工配合。
Mr. Wu says the company's pace is extremely tight, with market sales staff running at full capacity and upstream supply-chain companies rushing to work together.
过去一周，海尔施已为全国各地的医院和疾控部门免费提供了上万份检测试剂。
In the past week, Haier has provided tens of thousands of reagents free of charge to hospitals and disease control departments across the country.
试剂盒企业都在加班加点生产，但是否能满足武汉及湖北的检测需求？多家企业表示，试剂盒当前的产量与产能绝不是问题。
The kit companies are working overtime, but will they be able to meet demand in Wuhan and Hubei? Many companies say the current production and production capacity of the kits is by no means a problem.
“武汉需要多少，我们就能供应多少。
"Wuhan can supply as much as we need.
”上海捷诺相关工作人员曾公开表示，公司目前已完成交付约15万人份的量。
Shanghai-based Teno officials have said publicly that the company has so far delivered about 150,000 people.
除夕前，他们在1月23日晚就通过专车，“将2万人份开车送到武汉城市边境，由武汉疾控中心收下。
Before New Year's Eve, they passed a special bus on the night of January 23. "Twenty thousand people were driven to the Wuhan city border and received by the Wuhan CDC.
”该工作人员告诉本刊。
The staff member told the magazine.
其他企业也有类似表态。
Other companies have made similar statements.
国家委托生产的上海辉睿生物对媒体表示，目前他们已累计生产约10万人份的试剂盒，日产量在2-3万人份，生产端供给充足。
Shanghai Pfizer, commissioned by the state, told the media that it had produced about 100,000 test kits for about 100,000 people a day, with an adequate supply on the production side.
江苏硕世生物也称，公司正以每天10万人份的生产速度提供市场。
Jiangsu Masters Biology also said the company is providing the market at a rate of 100, 000 people per day.
“我们春节都是不休息的。
We don't take holidays at Spring Festival.
”吴勇说，后期将酌情加大产能，最多时企业能做到一年上百万人份。
Mr Wu said capacity would be increased later as appropriate, with companies up to a million a year.
他说，如果后期需求加大的话，公司可能会把产能做满，以供应市场需求。
'If demand increases later, the company may be able to run at full capacity to supply demand, 'he said.
从生产供应的数量上看，试剂盒无疑是充足的。
There is no doubt that the kit is adequate in terms of the quantity of production supplied.
门槛：高检测条件▲▲▲然而，这么多试剂盒，为何没能在不计其数的疑似患者身上得到使用？物流是一个原因。
Threshold: High Test Condition however, why so many test kits have not been used on countless suspected patients? Logistics is one reason.
很多试剂盒需要冷链运输，但时值春节，运力紧张，一些产品跑在陆路，一些产品则通过人肉带货的方式空运到全国各地。
Many kits require cold-chain transport, but during the Spring Festival, capacity is tight, some products are shipped overland and some products are airlifted to various parts of the country.
更重要的原因是，利用试剂盒进行检测有很高门槛，需要配备相关实验室、仪器和技术人员。
More importantly, the use of kits for testing has a high threshold and requires laboratories, instruments and technicians.
“不是说有了这个盒子就在哪都能测，不是的。
"Not that you can measure it anywhere with this box, no.
”一位医护人员说。
"said one of the paramedics.
按照规定流程，试剂盒一般会被送往省级疾控中心，再由省级疾控中心下发。
According to the prescribed procedures, kits will generally be sent to the provincial CDC, and then distributed by the provincial CDC.
云南省疾控中心的一位负责人对本刊记者表示，对于一种新发传染病病毒，要按照国家规定的传染病毒的甲类管理。
Yunnan Province, a director of the CDC told the print reporter, for a new infectious disease virus, according to the national regulation of category A infectious disease virus management.
为避免污染，检测至少要在达到生物安全二级的实验室里做，“可能大部分医院都没有。
To avoid contamination, the tests should be done at least in a laboratory that meets biosafety level 2. "Most hospitals probably don't have one.
”检测实验室里，要有负压设备，气流只能进不能出；实验室的洁净度、通风系统、消毒灭菌都有极高的要求。
In testing labs, there are negative pressure devices that allow airflow only into and out of the lab, where cleanliness, ventilation, sterilization and sterilization are highly demanded.
如果不具备条件去做检验，很可能会出现病毒泄漏的情况，实验室成了污染源。
If not prepared to do the test, there is a high risk of virus leakage, the laboratory has become a source of pollution.
“现在规定就说要在二级防护的环境里面，采用三级防护的人员保护措施来做。
"Now the rule is to say in the secondary protection of the environment, using the third-level protection of personnel to do.
”吴勇说，这要求很高，意味着基本只有三甲医院才能做相关检测，“小医院做不了”。
Wu Yong said the high requirements meant only three-a-half hospitals could do relevant tests and "small hospitals could not."
问题在于，武汉当前收治疑似新型冠状病毒肺炎病人的门诊定点医院，多是中小型医院，没有检测条件。
The problem is that Wuhan at present admitted suspected patients with coronavirus pneumonia outpatient hospital, mostly small and medium-sized hospitals, there is no testing conditions.
这是武汉为了应对越来越多的病人所采取的“7+7”包保制度，即征用7家二级公立医院做发热定点门诊，每家定点医院有一家对应的大型综合医院做对口帮扶。
This is Wuhan in response to an increasing number of patients adopted by the "7 + 7" insurance system, that is, the requisition of seven secondary public hospitals for fever sentinel clinics, each designated hospital has a corresponding large-scale general hospital to do the corresponding assistance.
在人满为患的定点医院看病的病人，需要对口帮扶医院乃至疾控中心才能做检测。
In overcrowded designated hospital patients, the need to respond to help hospitals and even the Centers for Disease Control can be tested.
在定点医院武汉红十字会医院、武汉汉口医院，医护人员都表示，院里没有试剂盒和检测条件，医院只有将高危疑似病患向上报。
At the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital and Wuhan Hankou Hospital, doctors and nurses said there were no test kits and testing conditions and hospitals had to report high-risk patients.
“我们只有靠疾控和协和帮我们做，只有他们才有条件。
"We have to rely on disease control and harmony to help us, only they have the conditions.
”红十字会医院一名医护人员说。
"said a doctor at the Red Cross hospital.
但事实上，很多三甲医院也没有类似条件。
In fact, many triple-A hospitals do not have similar conditions.
南京鼓楼医院（三甲）的医生说，其医院实验室达不到做检测的标准。
Doctors at the Drum Tower Hospital in Nanjing said its hospital laboratory did not meet the standards for testing.
武汉当地一位医生说，“武汉三甲医院里几乎也没有几家能够做这个。
"Few hospitals in Wuhan Sanjia can do this," said a local doctor in Wuhan.
”据了解，这些具备检测条件的主要集中在同济、协和以及省市级疾控中心。
It is understood that the main test conditions are concentrated in Tongji, Concorde and provincial and municipal CDC.
由于疫情爆发，这些实验室面临人手紧缺的难题。
As a result of the outbreak, these laboratories faced staffing constraints.
而在武汉周边的湖北其他城市，具备检测条件的医院数量就更加有限了，普遍集中在市级大医院。
In other Hubei cities around Wuhan, the number of hospitals with testing conditions is more limited, generally concentrated in large municipal hospitals.
以黄冈市为例，据本刊记者了解，当地公布的相关定点医院中，有检测条件和设备的只有1-2家。
Take Huanggang City for example, according to our correspondent, the local announcement of the relevant designated hospitals, testing conditions and equipment only 1-2.
这意味着，在全域封城的湖北，有大量基层医院不具备检测条件，对于中心城区之外的疑似患者来说，确诊遥不可及。
This means that in Hubei, a large number of basic hospitals do not have the test conditions, for the suspected patients outside the central city, diagnosis is out of reach.
类似的情况也存在于全国其他地区。
A similar situation exists in other parts of the country.
安徽一家地市医院工作人员透露，能做检测的医院很少，“基本上安徽省发热的定点医院（共37家），加起来就那几家。
An Anhui city hospital staff revealed that few hospitals can be tested, "basically Anhui Province, a total of 37 hotspots hospitals, add up to those.
”应急：特殊通道开启▲▲▲武汉市卫健委1月23日称，从1月22日开始，已指定各定点救治医院、发热定点诊疗医院的对口帮扶医院以及市疾控中心等具备条件和级别的实验室开展相关检测工作。
Special Channel Opened on January 23, Wuhan City Health Commission said January 22, the designated treatment hospitals, the corresponding hospital for fever diagnosis and treatment of the corresponding help hospital and the city CDC and other conditions and levels of laboratories to carry out relevant testing.
第一批共10家机构，预计全部运行起来每天可检测样本近2000份，将有3万人份试剂盒发放到指定检测机构，目前已下发6000人份。
The first batch of 10 institutions is expected to be fully operational with nearly 2,000 samples per day, 30,000 kits to be distributed to designated testing institutions and 6,000 currently.
这是武汉为了“为适应当前防控形势需要，提高检测速度”，向上级请示的结果。
This is Wuhan in order to "adapt to the current situation of prevention and control, to improve the speed of detection," the results of higher command.
在此之前，病例样本要由辖区疾控中心转运到市疾控中心，再转运到省疾控中心进行检测，每天可检测样本200多份，时长普遍在两天左右。
Prior to this, case samples will be transferred from the jurisdiction of the CDC to the CDC, and then transferred to the provincial CDC for testing, more than 200 samples per day, the length of time is generally about two days.
武汉卫健委还透露，1月16日之前，整个湖北省都没有试剂盒，需送到国家指定机构，结果返回约需3—5天。
Wuhan Health Commission also revealed that before January 16, the entire Hubei Province did not have test kits, to be sent to the designated national authority, the results of the return about three to five days.
这是19号之后，公布的确诊数量激增的原因之一。
This was one of the reasons for the surge in the number of confirmed cases published after the 19th.
这也反映了疫情确诊在当下的一个困局：很多医院即使具备条件，也没有检测的资质。
This also reflects the current dilemma of diagnosing the epidemic: many hospitals, even if equipped, do not qualify for testing.
医院的病例样本被送往省市疾控中心检测，一来一回，原本几小时就能出来的结果，被延长至了2-3天——根据国家政策，医院目前无法直接采购新型病毒检测试剂盒，只有疾控中心有试剂盒，这也导致了医院端的试剂盒短缺。
Samples of hospital cases are sent to provincial and municipal disease control centers for testing, and results that can be released in a matter of hours are extended to two to three days at a time - according to state policy, hospitals are unable to procure new virus test kits directly.
前述云南疾控负责人就说，不会将试剂盒直接下发给医院。
The aforementioned Yunnan CDC officials said that the kit will not be sent directly to the hospital.
在孝感，作为三甲的市中心医院目前没有试剂盒，而市第一人民医院则说，试剂盒数量要“从上面发，有时有，有时没有。
In a sense of filial piety, the city center hospital has no kits at the moment, while the city's First People's Hospital says the number of kits should be "sent from above, sometimes, sometimes not."
”另一个现实困局在于，对于生产厂家来说，试剂盒供给医院是需要药监局注册证的，但今天国内任何一个厂家都没有相关资质。
"Another real dilemma is that for manufacturers, the kit supply hospital needs a Drug Enforcement Administration registration certificate, but today none of the domestic manufacturers has the relevant qualifications.
按照正常流程，如果一个核酸检测试剂盒从研发开始，到获得药监局的注册证，一般需要3-5年时间。
According to normal procedure, it usually takes 3-5 years for a nucleic acid test kit to start with R & D and to obtain a registration certificate from the Drug Enforcement Administration.
其中涉及设计、验证、产品注册检验、临床实验、国家药监局注册审批等，时间长，流程多。
Which involves design, verification, product registration and inspection, clinical trials, registration and approval of the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision, etc., long time, many processes.
当前，这个过程显然不能满足应急需求。
At present, it is clear that this process does not meet emergency needs.
据媒体报道，为此，国家药监局近日开通了快速审批通道，启动紧急审评。
According to media reports, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision recently opened a fast-track approval channel to initiate an emergency review.
共有7家企业研发的新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒进入审批，包括此前国家卫健委确认的三家供应企业。
A total of seven enterprises have developed a new coronavirus nucleic acid test kit into the approval process, including three previously identified by the National Health Commission suppliers.
1月24日，上海之江生物科技股份有限公司通过检验，成为我国法定检验机构检定合格的首个新型冠状病毒检测产品。
On January 24, Shanghai Zhijiang Bio-tech Co. Ltd. passed the inspection and became the first new coronavirus testing product certified by the statutory inspection organizations in China.
不过其仅是完成了送检，尚未正式获批上市，后续流程仍未走完。
However, it has only completed the inspection, has not been formally approved to market, the follow-up process is still not complete.
然而，疫情不等人。
However, the epidemic is uneven.
随着疫情蔓延，很多生产厂家开始直供医院，销售人员的电话被直接挂到网上，供各地政府、医院、疾控咨询。
As the epidemic spread, many manufacturers began to supply hospitals directly. Sales people's calls were placed directly on the Internet for consultation with governments, hospitals and disease control authorities.
各大试剂盒生产商开始接到一些医院的咨询电话。
Manufacturers of test kits are beginning to receive calls from some hospitals.
“电话接都接不过来，每天就跟打仗一样。
"I can't get through the phone. It's like fighting every day.
”上海辉睿市场部一名工作人员说。
A Shanghai-based Pfizer marketing official said.
“这是应急时刻的特殊之举。
"This is a special occasion for emergencies.
”一位业内人士表示，这种状态下，3-5年的时间在当下被缩短到了15天左右。
In this situation, the period of three to five years is now shortened to about 15 days, according to one industry source.
对于一些医院和患者来说，“确诊”也并非意味着一切，只是成为了官方通报里的一个数字。
For some hospitals and patients, "diagnosis" doesn't mean everything, it's just a number in the official bulletin.
即使是这个数字，也需二次检测确认后统一发布。
Even this number needs to be confirmed by the secondary detection after the unified release.
前述安徽医院的医护人员表示，他们有检疫盒和一切设备，就是确诊需卫健委统一发布，“不让乱发消息，即使医疗条件和所有设备在全国都是最先进的，也需要上报。
Anhui hospital medical staff said they have quarantine boxes and all equipment, that is to say, the diagnosis requires a unified health care committee issued, "do not send messy messages, even if the medical conditions and all equipment are the most advanced in the country, also need to be reported.
”（本刊实习记者岳颖、兰杰对本文亦有贡献）作者档案黄子懿做好打持久战的准备。
"(This print intern Yue Ying, Lanjie also contributed to this article) The author files Huang Zi Yi ready to fight a protracted war.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@杰货严岩疫情还没完，懂疫苗的欢迎联系我。
26 minutes ago Triple Lifestyle Personal Weibo: @ Jet Yan Yan epidemic is not over, understand the vaccine welcome contact me.
26分钟前三联生活周刊微信请加：roseisnotred请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the lookout for an epidemic line # The Triple Life Weekly's entire media is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
试剂盒困局：为何确诊这么难？。
Troubleshooting: Why is diagnosis so difficult?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "试剂盒困局：为何确诊这么难？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; kit trap: Why was diagnosis so difficult?;
var msg_desc = "试剂盒的供给端产量充足，并非“供不应求”，而是卡在了春节运力紧张、高门槛的检测条件、以及相关药品资质的审批上。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
为此，国家药监局已于近日开启快速审批通道。
To this end, the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision has recently opened a fast-track approval channel.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
