等待黎明：疫情之下停摆的餐饮业。
Waiting for Dawn: A Catering Industry Stopped by the Epidemic.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
原本打算在春节期间大有作为的餐饮业，被疫情来了一次“精确打击”。
Originally intended to be a very successful restaurant during the Spring Festival, was the outbreak of a "precision strike."
在现金流高度紧张的情况下，很多停摆企业仅能维持2-3个月。
With high cash-flow pressures, many stop-over companies are only able to stay afloat for two to three months.
在一些从业者看来，真正的挑战在复工之后，疫情可能会带来餐饮业的一次洗牌。
The real challenge, according to some practitioners, could be a reshuffle in the restaurant industry once the epidemic returns to work.
记者 | 黄子懿 黑麦被叫停的百米赛跑突然之间，日子变得不忙碌了，何勇觉得非常不习惯。
Suddenly, the days of the stopped 100-meter race became hectic for Rye-Yi and He Yong felt very strange.
自疫情爆发以来，他多数时间都待在自己在上海的家中，偶尔开着车在上海的街道上转悠。
Since the outbreak, he has spent most of his time at home in Shanghai, occasionally driving around the city's streets.
看着街边商铺落下的门帘、冷清的商场。
Look at the street shop fell the door curtain, deserted shopping mall.
他叹了口气，说：“感觉好像整个城市被冰冻了。
He sighed and said, "It feels like the whole city is frozen.
”被冰冻的还有他的生意。
"And his business was frozen.
何勇是连锁品牌阿香米线的创始人，旗下管理着遍布全国的700多家直营店，拥有10000多员工。
He Yong is the founder of chain A Xiang rice noodle, which manages more than 700 direct stores across the country and employs more than 10,000 people.
疫情以来，商铺全线歇业，原本他的工作是每天布置各地区经理经营好春节期间的业务。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the entire line of shops closed down, originally his job is to decorate each area manager to manage the business during the Spring Festival period.
而现在，他的主要工作之一成了每天在线上开会，上午、下午各一次，在手机系统上查看员工们报上来的体温统计表，看看有没有员工发热等异常情况。
Now, one of his main jobs is to hold meetings online once a day, once in the morning and once in the afternoon, and check the thermometer employees report on the cell phone system to see if they have anything unusual, like a fever.
“这简直是一次精确打击。
"It was a precision blow.
”何勇说，原本每年春节是营业的高峰期，为此他们备好了约1.3亿元的食材准备冲刺，但这时候，疫情按下了刹车，餐饮、院线、旅游，直接从春节最赚钱变成了最亏钱。
He said the Spring Festival was the peak of business each year, so they had prepared about 130 million yuan worth of ingredients for the sprint, but by then the epidemic had hit the brakes, catering, lines and travel, making the most money directly from the Spring Festival.
“就像一个百米赛跑，你鼓足了马力，脚正准备往前蹬的时候，忽然有一个哨声叫你停下。
"" It's like a 100-meter race where you've got all the horsepower and your feet are just about to kick forward when a whistle stops you.
”远征 摄阿香米线的700多家店中，武汉有25家，湖北省一共近50家，与武汉封城几乎同一时间关闭。
Of the more than 700 shops on the expedition, 25 are in Wuhan and nearly 50 in Hubei, which are closed almost at the same time as Wuhan.
最早武汉封城时，何勇还并不觉得严重，认为除开湖北之外的店面，其他店面每天也能带来500-600万的营业额，但随着疫情蔓延，他遍布全国26个省份147个县市的店铺都骤然全部关闭，这被他称之为“断崖式的硬着陆”。
He Yong didn't think seriously when he first closed the city, arguing that in addition to Hubei stores, other storefronts can generate 5-6 million dollars a day, but as the epidemic spread, his shops in 147 counties across the country's 26 provinces were suddenly shut down, what he called a "cliff-like hard landing."
位于上海总部的信息化管理系统，将这几天惨谈的营业额赤裸裸地实时展现在他面前：大年初一，80万；初二，40万；大年初三，20万……“到后面我都懒得看了。
Shanghai-based information management system, the gross turnover of the last few days exposed in real time in front of him: New Year's Day, 0.8 million; Junior 2, 400,000; New Year's Day, 200,000... "I did not even bother to look behind.
”2月3日接受采访这天，何勇无奈地说，当天营业额还不到9万，“只剩一些机场的店面还开着。
On Feb. 3, he said helplessly that the turnover was less than 90,000, "leaving only a few airport storefronts open."
”与阿香米线的快餐不同，地处广州的另一家餐厅榕记主打中餐，在广东范围内拥有店面40多家，其中位于城区的有10-20家。
Unlike the fast-food restaurant Asang Rice Line, another restaurant in Guangzhou, Yongji specializes in Chinese food, with more than 40 stores across Guangdong, including 10 to 20 in urban areas.
其负责人王国辉说，每年春节期间，城区的店面都会有很多当地人来订年夜饭、团体席宴等。
Its chief executive, Wang Huihui, said that during the Spring Festival, many locals come to book New Year's Eve dinners and group dinners.
“后来全退光了。
"Then it was all gone.
”他们准备了近200万的食材现在都放在冷库里，其中一些被扔掉、卖掉。
Nearly two million of the ingredients they had prepared were now stored in cold storage, and some were thrown away and sold.
“损失多少还无法估计，现在还没统计出来，因为不是一个店。
"It's impossible to estimate how much it's lost, because it's not a store," he said.
”远征 摄疫情对于春节期间餐饮业的影响有多严重？1月31日，恒大研究院在《疫情对中国经济的影响分析与政策建议》中指出，本次疫情在经济层面的影响表现为宏观层面的需求和生产骤降。
The impact of the epidemic on the food and beverage industry during the Lunar New Year: An Analysis of the Impact of the Epidemic on the Chinese Economy and Policy Recommendations, the Institute said on January 31 that the economic impact of the epidemic was reflected in a sharp drop in demand and production at the macro level.
其中受影响最大的就是餐饮、旅游、电影等第三产业服务消费行业。
One of the most affected is catering, tourism, film and other tertiary services consumption industry.
2019年春节七天假期内，中国零售和餐饮业销售额约1万亿元人民币。
During the seven-day Spring Festival in 2019, China's retail and catering sales reached about Rmb1,000bn.
据报告估算，餐饮业与零售业仅在春节7天内的损失就可能高达5000亿元。
Restaurants and retailers alone are reported to have lost as much as 500 billion yuan in the seven days of Spring Festival alone.
具体到商家上，何勇初步估计仅春节7天损失就在4500万左右。
On the specific business, He Yong preliminary estimate that the Spring Festival alone 7 days of losses in about 45 million.
其他知名的连锁品牌更严重。
Other well-known chains are more serious.
不完全统计显示，从1月21日-30 日，眉州东坡一共退餐11100余桌，估算直接损失在1700万左右，若加上支付的食材、房租、工资等成本，损失难以估量；海底捞歇业损失约在7亿元；西贝莜面村的负责人在接受媒体采访时说，预计春节前后一个月将损失营收7至8亿元。
According to incomplete statistics, more than 11,100 tables were returned from the east slope of Meizhou between January 21 and 30, with an estimated direct losses of around 17 million yuan, including the cost of food, rent and wages.
王国辉说，在餐饮界内有个226定律，即60%的餐饮业是亏钱的，20%收支平衡，剩下的20%盈利。
The kingdom said there was a 226-percent rule in the catering industry that 60 percent of restaurants was losing money, 20 percent was breaking even and the remaining 20 percent was profitable.
从时间上看，很多餐饮店也分淡旺季，比如他的店铺一年约8个月是淡季，旺季主要集中在冬天里的4个月，“只有靠这4个月冲业绩啊”。
In terms of time, many restaurants are also in low season. For example, his shop is about eight months a year, and the peak season is mainly concentrated in four months of winter.
结构性变化并非每一家餐饮商家都会着重发力春节。
Structural change is not every restaurant business will focus on the Spring Festival.
春节餐饮业的重点在中餐与快餐等，一些小型店面本来就处于打烊状态。
The focus of the Spring Festival catering industry is on Chinese food and fast food. Some small stores are already closed.
春节对于一些非主流的餐饮商家来讲，本身也并非旺季。
Spring Festival for some non-mainstream catering businesses, itself is not a busy season.
四川成都的豪虾传就是这样一家店面，在春节乃至疫情之前就早早关了门。
Sichuan Chengdu's prawn legend is such a storefront, in the Spring Festival even before the outbreak of early closure.
其创始人蒋毅说，养虾有季节性，每年10月后小龙虾进入繁殖期，肉质变差，冬天更要冬眠，直到4-5月份才能上市。
'Shrimp farming is seasonal, 'says its founder, Jiang Yi.' Every year after October, crayfish enter the breeding season.
“对我们的影响暂时还有限。
"The impact on us has been limited for the time being.
”蒋毅说，他度过寒冬的方式之一，是将员工派遣到其他餐饮店铺工作。
Jiang said one of the ways he spent the winter was to send his staff to work in other restaurants.
2月3日晚，盒马生鲜也称，歇业的云海肴、青年餐厅（北京）员工将赴盒马“上班”。
On the evening of February 3, boxed Ma Shengxian also said that out of business Yun Hsiang, youth restaurant (Beijing) staff will go to box horse "to work."
但总体来说，这轮疫情正衍生出一个全局性的寒冬，有小型的餐饮商家已准备歇业退出。
But overall, the epidemic is generating a global winter, with small restaurant businesses poised to close.
1月30日早上，蒋毅接到了朋友老姜的一个电话，对方沮丧地说，“今天发完工资，就打算退出餐饮了。
On the morning of January 30, Jiang Yi received a telephone call from his friend Jiang, who said in dismay, "Today, after paying my salary, I plan to quit catering.
”朋友说，自己身上已经没有现金了，到下个月就拿不出钱来缴房租和发工资了。
"My friend says he has no cash left and won't be able to pay rent or wages until next month.
“我坚持不下去了。
"I can't go on.
”“餐饮行业最大的魅力是什么？就是现金流。
"" What's the biggest charm of the restaurant industry? Cash flow.
”蒋毅说，这是其他很多行业的从业者转行做餐饮的重要原因，甚至是首要原因。
Jiang said it was an important, if not the primary, reason why practitioners in many other industries switched to catering.
现结现卖、实付实销的交易模式，让餐饮企业通常拥有丰厚的现金流，这样才能承受日益增长的人力与土地成本。
The cash-as-you-go, pay-as-you-go model allows restaurants to typically have large cash flows to absorb the growing cost of manpower and land.
这一切的前提都是正常营业，一旦闭店歇业，现金流也就断裂了。
The premise of all this is normal business, once the closure of the store, cash flow also broke.
而疫情当前，餐饮行业要在没有进账的情况下，支付着房租与工资，在高度紧张的现金流下摇摇欲坠。
And the current epidemic, the catering industry in the absence of incoming money, paying rent and wages, in a highly tight cash flow is crumbling.
很多企业可能只能维持2-3个月，这是行业多家大品牌的共识。
Many companies may be able to maintain only 2-3 months, which is the consensus of a number of major brands in the industry.
西贝莜面村表示，账上工资只够发3个月工资；外婆家负责人则在接受采访时表示，每天天亮一醒来，“就要支付250万元工资”，目前看只能苦撑2个月。
You've only got three months' salary on the payroll, but the mother-in-charge said in an interview that "you'll have to pay 2.5 million yuan salary" as soon as morning comes, but only for two months.
何勇给我算一笔账，目前阿香米线每月要付约3000万的租金，3500多万的工资，这些都是硬性支出，占到了日常成本的50%以上。
He Yong gave me an account, the current A Xiang rice line to pay about 30 million a month rent, more than 35 million wages, these are hard expenditures, accounting for more than 50% of the daily costs.
他说，如果当前情况持续下去，他可能最多只能维持3个月左右。
If the current situation continues, he says, he may be able to hold out for up to three months at most.
“创业以来，从来没遇到过这么大的困难。
"Never before in my life has there been so much trouble.
”何勇说。
'he said.
图 | 摄图网何勇在餐饮业已有20年。
HE Yong has been in the restaurant business for 20 years.
2000年，他从一个电器公司销售人员转行进入餐饮行业，从山东淄博起步，最初是做拉面，后来做米线。
In 2000, he switched from an electrical company sales staff into the catering industry, from Zibo Shandong Province, initially do ramen, later made rice line.
靠着对行业的判断力与餐饮业丰富的现金流，他在没有贷款的情况下，20年来一路开到了700多家门店，先后将总部搬到了青岛、上海，在米线单品类做到行业前茅。
He has moved his headquarters to Qingdao and Shanghai over the past 20 years without a loan, and is leading the industry in rice-line items, relying on his judgment and the rich cash flow of the industry.
“快餐行业的现金流更好，因为都是现卖，不会有月结这些。
"The fast-food industry has better cash flow because it's all ready to sell and doesn't have a monthly payoff.
”在何勇的记忆中，2003年“非典”对餐饮业的打击也没有这么大。
In Ho Yong's memory, SARS hit the restaurant industry less hard in 2003.
当时他在淄博开的三家店都是正常营业，疫情的辐射也并非在春节期间。
At that time he opened in Zibo three stores are normal business, the outbreak of radiation is not during the Spring Festival.
这几天，他跟老同事在群里聊天，问他们：“非典期间你们有感觉吗？”对方都说没啥感觉。
These days, he was chatting with his old colleagues in the group and asked them, "Did you feel anything during SARS?" The other side said it didn't feel very good.
“那时候各项成本也都很低。
"The costs were very low back then.
”王国辉也经历了非典。
"Kingdom Hui has also experienced SARS.
他说2003年的时候在广州，餐馆里雇一个工人工资不到500元/月，房租不过1元/平米/月，一家1000平米的餐馆店铺一月租金不过上千元。
He said that in 2003 in Guangzhou, a restaurant employed a worker for less than 500 yuan per month, the rent was less than one yuan per square metre / month, and the rent for a 1,000 square meter restaurant was less than 1,000 yuan a month.
“现在人工成本和房租都涨了大概十倍。
"Labour costs and rent are about tenfold higher now.
”王国辉说，2003年时餐馆毛利润率约为40%，现在是50%，但实际上各项成本增长稀释利润，竞争也变得比过去激烈。
The kingdom says gross profit margins in restaurants were about 40 per cent in 2003 and are now 50 per cent, but in practice cost increases have diluted profits and competition has become more intense.
“除了现金流之外，餐饮业还有一个特点就是低门槛。
"In addition to cash flow, the restaurant industry is also characterized by a low threshold.
”图 | 摄图网与2003年相比，中国经济也有了结构性变化。
China's economy has also undergone structural changes compared with 2003.
第三产业比重已从当时的42%上升到53.9%，成为国民经济支柱性产业。
The proportion of tertiary industry has increased from 42% to 53.9%, making it the mainstay of the national economy.
当前，中国餐饮企业超过460万个，门店数量更是超过800万个，创造了超过3000万个就业岗位，以个体、私营和三资企业为代表的非国有经济的比例已占95%以上，成为行业主体。
At present, there are more than 4.6 million catering enterprises and more than 8 million outlets in China, creating more than 30 million jobs, and the proportion of the non-state sector, represented by private, private and third-party enterprises, has become the dominant sector.
“2003年那时候媒体的传播速度、人员流动的速度都没有这么快、这么广。
"The speed of the media and the speed with which people moved were not so fast and widespread in 2003.
”何勇说他感到，现在的时间和空间都被如此地缩小，以至于一场疫情能有如此深远的影响。
He said he felt that time and space were so shrinking that an epidemic could have such a profound impact.
黎明前的黑暗？1月末，春节原定的假期已过，返程人流开始增加。
Dark before dawn? Late in January, the Spring Festival holiday was over and the return flow began to increase.
在北京开着4家餐馆、1家烘培店的李羊不时接到员工来问询具体开工时间。
Li Yang, who owns four restaurants and a bakery in Beijing, is constantly being asked about starting times.
他一度为此纠结。
At one point he became entangled.
此时，三里屯陆续有店铺开门营业，但仍有6、7成左右的店关着门，客人寥寥无几。
At this time, Sanlitun shops continue to open, but there are still about 6, 70% of the stores closed doors, few guests.
白天只有咖啡馆能聚集些人，饭点时餐厅的上座率只有平时的一两成。
Only cafes can hold a few people during the day, and restaurants are only 10% of their usual occupancy rate at meals.
纠结之下，李羊决定，让自己在三里屯的两家餐厅先开业，准备了200万“过冬”。
Under the entanglement, Li Yang decided to let himself in Sanlitun two restaurants to open first, prepared 2 million "winter."
“这几天开业可能会创造历史最低营业额，一天几百块的收入，开也是赔，不开也赔”。
"The opening of the business these days is likely to create an all-time low of a few hundred dollars a day.
这也是很多商家面临的一道难题。
This is also a difficult problem for many businesses.
多位老板表示，特殊时期的租金减免要跟房东、商场接洽，很多员工也表示，疫情期间的工资可以协商，甚至有员工表示可以减薪甚至免薪，算作休假。
Bosses said landlords and shopping malls were approached for rent breaks during special periods, and many workers said wages could be negotiated during the outbreak, and some even said they could take time off with pay cuts or no pay.
“但我们肯定不能这么做，有风险在里面。
"But we certainly can't do that. There's a risk in it.
”牛蛙餐饮连锁品牌“蛙来哒”负责人罗清说。
Lu Qing, head of the bullfrog restaurant chain, said.
图 | 摄图网一些店面在商业综合体内的企业，已经启动跟商场洽谈。
Some businesses with storefronts in the commercial complex have begun talks with Mall.
何勇说，他在万达商场里有170多家店，万达提出了可以减免36天的租金与物业管理费，他对此心存感激。
He said he was grateful to Wanda, which had more than 170 stores in the mall, for offering 36 days of rent and property management rebates.
然而，万达的善意似乎也是杯水车薪。
However, Wanda's goodwill also seems to be in short supply.
真正困扰这些商家的问题是：复工之后，店铺是继续开业还是不开？因为复工开业，就意味着房租、工资可能要照付。
The question that really bothers these businesses is whether the shops will continue to open or not when they return to work, which means that rents and wages may have to be paid.
王国辉直言，在租金减免的情况下，他们的现有资金储备能维持两月左右。
The kingdom has made it clear that, with rent relief, their existing reserves will last for about two months.
“这是在停业状态才能支持下去的，如果开业了，我们是维持不下去的，因为人们不一定会来消费。
"It's out of business to support it, and if it's open, we can't keep it going because people don't have to spend it.
”何勇也认为，疫情迟早是会过去，但关键是消费者的信心什么时候能回来。
He agreed that sooner or later the epidemic would pass, but the key was when consumer confidence would return.
长期看来，很多餐饮商家老板依然看好餐饮业的未来，这是基于中国每年在增长的5万亿元餐饮消费的需求量级，也是认定在疫情过去后，餐饮等第三产业会有报复性反弹的判断。
In the long run, many restaurant bosses still favor the future of the catering industry, based on China's annual growth of 5 trillion yuan in food and beverage consumption, and on the assumption that there will be a retaliatory rebound in tertiary industries such as catering after the epidemic has passed.
“餐饮的消费需求还是在涨的。
"Consumer demand for food and beverage is still rising.
”罗清说。
"said Luo Qing.
图 | 摄图网然而，摆在他们眼前的现实问题是，如何度过眼下这“黎明前的黑暗”？“行业内大家最近也在讨论，估计疫情完全平复下去，大家的意识上觉得说安全了，至少会要到3月底了；然后再等到消费者心理安全感的恢复，可能就到5月底，到6月我们才有可能恢复一个基础的平常收入。
The real question before them, however, is how to get through the "pre-dawn darkness": "There has been a recent discussion in the industry that the epidemic is expected to be fully contained, at least until the end of March; and then, perhaps, by the end of May, or June, when we will be able to recover our basic ordinary income.
”罗清说，同行们都认为，从2月起至少有4个月，是基本没有太多收益的。
Mr. Luo said his peers agreed that at least four months from February onwards would be 'largely unprofitable.
在蒋毅看来，这其中最难熬过的就是2月，他将其称之为“二月危机”。
In Jiang's view, the most difficult of these was February, which he called the "February crisis."
“因为二月如果都撑不过去，那就不用考虑后面3~6个月的萎靡周期了。
"If February doesn't last, you don't have to consider the next three to six months of malaise.
”蒋毅的那位朋友，就是难以判断自己何时能开业，做出了关店的决定。
Jiang Yi's friend was very difficult to judge when he would open his business and made the decision to close the shop.
当时，他的冻库里还有接近100万的货无法变现。
At the time, there were nearly a million uncashed items in his freezer.
更重要的是，下月还要缴纳两个店、超过超过70万租金，有超过120万的资金缺口。
More importantly, there is a funding gap of more than 1.2 million for more than $700,000 in rent for two more stores next month.
于是选择发掉一个月工资，闭店走人。
So choose to pay a month's salary, closed shop to leave.
“我们现在只有因势而变。
"We have to change because of the situation.
”何勇说，在一些已经开始慢慢复工的地区，他打算随着复工节奏慢慢地开一店，酌情增补人员，为最少3个月、可能6个月的过渡期做准备，对于未来走势，他说自己暂时也不清楚。
In some areas where work is already slowly returning to work, he plans to open slowly at a pace consistent with the resumption of work, adding staff as necessary to prepare for a transition period of at least three months, possibly six months, he said, adding that he was not clear for the time being.
图 | 摄图网“比如原来一家店10多个人，我先用3-4人试试，因为顾客肯定不会太多。
"For example, when there were about 10 people at a store, I tried 3 to 4 people first, because there definitely weren't many customers.
”何勇说，他会看看能否熬得这几个月，“起码要收支平衡”，如果不行将会把一些现金流为负的店面“清疮”。
He said he would see if it would last for months, "at least make ends meet," or if it didn't, it would clear some of the stores with negative cash flows.
“我们正处于一个巨大的历史过程中，谁也看不清。
"We are in a huge historical process and no one can see it clearly.
我们只是践行者，不是预言家。
We are practitioners, not prophets.
”何勇说。
'he said.
这种情况下，很多老板开始抱团取暖，参加线上的培训会等，学习如何节省现金流等知识。
In this case, many bosses start huddling around, attending online training sessions and learning how to save cash flow and so on.
这也是蒋毅的目前的主要工作之一，他会利用业余时间给其他老板上课、做培训。
This is also one of Jiang Yi's main tasks at present, he will use his spare time to teach other boss, do training.
“餐饮行业有自己的问题，就是一些企业的不规范，有财务上的漏洞，所以金融行业很少碰餐饮。
"The catering industry has its own problems, that is, some enterprises are not standardized, there are financial loopholes, so the financial industry rarely touch catering.
”蒋毅说，这轮危机对于行业可能也是一次洗牌的机会，一些不规范的餐厅早点被关是好事，“能让真正的好餐厅留下来。
Jiang said the crisis could also be an opportunity for the industry to shuffle, with some unorthodox restaurants being closed earlier "to keep the really good ones."
”作者档案黄子懿做好打持久战的准备26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@杰货请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
The author's file, Huang Zi Yi, prepares for a protracted war 26 minutes ago Three Lives Weekly's Personal Weibo: @ Jade please stamp! Lifestyle Weekly's New Crown Pneumonia series.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
等待黎明：疫情之下停摆的餐饮业。
Waiting for Dawn: A Catering Industry Stopped by the Epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "等待黎明：疫情之下停摆的餐饮业";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Waiting for Dawn: AT & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "真正的挑战在复工之后，疫情可能会带来餐饮业的一次洗牌。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the real challenge may be a reshuffle in the restaurant industry once work resumes.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
