无症状感染会造成新冠防治的失控吗？​。
Does asymptomatic infection cause the new crown control to get out of hand?
李秀莉。
Li Xiuli.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
新型冠状病毒无症状感染者出现，令许多公众担心这会让病毒传播更佳防不胜防。
The emergence of a new coronavirus asymptomatic infection has raised concerns among many members of the public that the virus will spread better.
事实上，大多数病毒、细菌导致的疾病都可能出现“无症状感染者”。
In fact, most diseases caused by viruses and bacteria can be asymptomatic.
新型冠状病毒的无症状感染者出现需要引起我们的警惕，但不必恐慌。
New coronavirus asymptomatic infection needs to arouse our vigilance, but do not panic.
实习记者 | 李秀莉张佳婧记者 | 徐菁菁无症状感染是新冠特有的吗？什么是无症状感染？这要从人体免疫系统的运作说起。
Li Xiuli Zhang Jing: Is the asymptomatic infection unique to the new crown? What is asymptomatic infection? This begins with the functioning of the human immune system.
病毒感染人体后，人体的免疫系统并非坐以待毙，有两道防线会对病毒进行应答。
When a virus infects the body, the body's immune system does not sit idly by, there are two lines of defense will respond to the virus.
第一道防线是天然免疫，指人体的天然屏障，包括我们的皮肤、口腔里的唾液、呼吸道里的一些分泌物等等，它们的作用是把病原阻挡在人体外。
The first line of defense is natural immunity, the body's natural barrier, including our skin, saliva in the mouth, some secretions in the respiratory tract, and so on, their role is to block the pathogen outside the body.
天然免疫又称非特异性免疫，每个人生下来就有，不针对某特定抗原。
Natural immunity, also known as non-specific immunity, is present at birth and is not specific to a particular antigen.
获得性免疫则是人体抵抗病毒入侵的第二道防线，它只针对某一种具体的病原体。
Acquired immunity is the second line of defense against viruses that invade the body, and it targets only one specific pathogen.
获得性免疫分为细胞免疫和体液免疫。
Acquired immunity is divided into cellular and humoral immunity.
以细胞免疫为例，淋巴细胞、单核细胞、树突状细胞、巨噬细胞等细胞活化为对入侵病原进行应答的活性淋巴细胞，尤其是T淋巴细胞和B淋巴细胞，共同发挥抗感染、免疫监视、清除病原等作用。
In the case of cellular immunity, cells such as lymphocytes, monocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages are activated to act as active lymphocytes that respond to invading pathogens, especially T lymphocytes and B lymphocytes, acting together to fight infection, immunological surveillance and pathogen removal.
在针对病毒的免疫应答中，人体可能会出现症状。
In the immune response to the virus, the human body may develop symptoms.
根据《柳叶刀》杂志发表的研究，此次新型冠状病毒病例的常见临床症状是发烧（免疫细胞产生致热因子，抑制病毒的繁殖）、咳嗽（将病毒从体内排出）、呼吸困难（这一方面是因为病毒破坏了肺部组织，另一方面是因为新冠病毒与人肺泡Ⅱ型上皮细胞ACE2受体结合后经过一系列过程，激发人体自身的免疫系统过度攻击自身组织，引起急性肺损伤）。
According to a study published in The Lancet, the common clinical signs of this new coronavirus case are fever (immune cells produce heat-causing factors that inhibit viral reproduction), cough (excretion of the virus from the body), breathing difficulties (partly because the virus destroys lung tissue and partly because the virus binds to the ACE2 receptor of human alveolar type II epithelial cells.
由此可见，新冠病毒体现的绝大多数症状都是人体免疫应答的表现。
Thus, the majority of the symptoms of the new crown virus is the expression of the human immune response.
图 | 视觉中国“我们所谓的有症状和没有症状，实际上是病毒感染了人体，把人体作为一个新的寄主之后，人体所产生的免疫反应和病毒抗衡的结果。
Vision China "What we call symptomatic and asymptomatic, in fact, infects the human body, the immune response and the viral response it produces when it acts as a new host.
而每一个个体这种抗衡能力是非常不一样的。
And the countervailing power of each individual is very different.
”一位不愿具名的分子免疫学专家告诉本刊。
A molecular immunologist who declined to be named told the magazine.
两种情况都会造成“无症状”：一是相对于人体的免疫力而言，病毒的数量少，毒性弱，很快就被消灭掉了；二是机体尚没有有效地激活其免疫反应。
In both cases, it is asymptomatic: the virus is small in number and weak in virulence relative to the body's immunity, and it is quickly destroyed; and the body has not yet effectively activated its immune response.
在实际的临床医学实践中，有症状和无症状之间的界限是很模糊的。
In actual clinical practice, the line between symptomatic and asymptomatic is blurred.
一个因为流感病毒打了两个喷嚏的患者，在不知情情况下康复了，一般也会被归为无症状感染者。
A patient who sneezes two times because of the flu virus, unknowingly recovers, is also classified as asymptomatic.
简言之，无症状感染可以理解成机体发生感染，但没有表现出明显的医学上的临床表象（例如打喷嚏、流鼻涕等），尤其是没有表现出明显的临床病理性症状（发烧、肺炎等）。
In short, asymptomatic infections can be understood as infections occurring in the body without significant medical symptoms (e.g. sneezing, runny noses, etc.) and, in particular, without significant clinical pathologic symptoms (fever, pneumonia, etc.).
新型冠状病毒的无症状感染者出现以后，一些人误认为这是该病毒的独特表现。
After the emergence of the asymptomatic infection of the new coronavirus, some people mistakenly believe that it is a unique manifestation of the virus.
事实上，大多数细菌、病毒导致的疾病都可能出现“无症状感染者”。
In fact, most diseases caused by bacteria and viruses can develop "asymptomatic infections."
据统计，约有 1%～5% 的伤寒患者，在症状消失后一年或更长时间内，仍可在其粪便中检出伤寒杆菌细菌，被称为无症状带菌者。
According to statistics, about 1 percent to 5 percent of typhoid patients can still detect typhoid bacteria in their feces for a year or more after the symptoms disappear.
人巨细胞病毒（HCMV）属于疱疹病毒家族。
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) belongs to the herpes virus family.
这种病毒对于病理性和生理性免疫低下人群，比如有发育性免疫缺陷的胎儿和新生儿的威胁很大，也是导致艾滋病患者和器官、骨髓移植患者患其他严重疾病的可能性和病死率增高的重要病因之一。
The virus poses a significant threat to pathologically and physiologically depressed populations, such as foetuses and newborns with developmental immune deficits, and is one of the major causes of increased risk and mortality from other serious diseases among AIDS patients and patients with organ and bone marrow transplants.
但其致病性弱，其感染在我国极其广泛，有调查显示，一般人群 HCMV 抗体阳性率为 86%～96%，孕妇 95% 左右，婴幼儿期为 60%～80%，绝大多数人都无症状。
However, its pathogenicity is weak, its infection in our country is extremely widespread, the survey shows that the general population HCMV positive rate is 86% ~ 96%, pregnant women about 95%, infants 60% ~ 80%, the vast majority of people are asymptomatic.
远征 摄《流行病学与传染》（Epidemiology and Infection）2019年刊发的美国哥伦比亚大学研究者的一篇论文显示，两种冠状病毒HCoV-229E和HCoV-OC43会造成普通感冒，在这两种病毒的感染者中，大约70%的人并不表现出症状。
According to a paper by Columbia University researchers published in Epidemiology and Infection in 2019, two coronavirus, HCoV-229E and HCoV-OC43, cause common colds, with about 70% of those infected with either virus showing no symptoms.
被流感病毒感染后，大约40%的人会是无症状感染者。
About 40 percent of people infected with the flu virus are asymptomatic.
此外，新加坡南洋理工大学李光前医学院教授安妮丝·怀尔德·史密斯（Annelies Wilder-Smith）2005年的一项研究称，SARS病毒有10%左右的无症状感染者。
Moreover, according to a 2005 study by Annelies Wilder-Smith, a former professor of medicine at Singapore's Nanyang Technological University, the SARS virus affects about 10% of asymptomatic people.
世界卫生组织中东呼吸综合征（MERS）研究小组的报告称，MERS病毒也有10%左右的无症状感染者。
The World Health Organization's Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) research team reports that the MERS virus also affects about 10 percent of asymptomatic people.
一般而言，我们可以通过两种方式判断无症状感染者：一是检测其身体内是否有病毒基因或者病毒特异性蛋白质；二是检测其体内是否有针对该病毒的产生的特异性抗体。
In general, asymptomatic infections can be judged in two ways: by detecting the presence of viral genes or virus-specific proteins in the body; and by detecting the presence of specific antibodies against the virus.
如果有人体内能够检测到抗体，但是无法检测到病毒，则说明他经历了病毒感染，但已经自愈或治愈。
If an antibody can be detected in the body, but the virus cannot be detected, it means that he has experienced a virus infection but has recovered or recovered.
目前，人们还在建立检测新型冠状病毒抗体的方法。
At present, people are still establishing a method to detect the new coronavirus antibody.
《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例监测方案（第三版）》将无症状感染者的定义为：无临床症状、但呼吸道标本新型冠状病毒病原学检测阳性。
The New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Surveillance Programme (3rd Edition) defines asymptomatic infection as a new coronavirus pathogen positive for respiratory specimens without clinical symptoms.
关于这类感染者出现的原因，上海医疗救治专家组组长、复旦大学附属华山医院感染科主任张文宏在接受媒体采访时表示：可能是由于他们的免疫应激反应没那么强，临床表现比较潜行，也可能是由于患者的机体异质性可与病毒和平共处。
Zhang Wenhong, head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group and director of infection at Fudan University-affiliated Huashan Hospital, said in an interview with the media: It may be because their immune response is less intense, their clinical manifestations are more insidious and they may be due to their organism's heterogeneity coexisting peacefully with the virus, Zhang Wenhong, director of infection at Fudan University-affiliated Huashan Hospital.
出现无症状感染者需要恐慌吗？公众的普遍担心是无症状感染者会成为防不胜防的传染源。
Do asymptomatic infections need to panic? There is widespread public concern that asymptomatic infections can become a source of infection too much to prevent.
目前为止，已有中国、德国和日本的科学家报告了未出现症状的新冠病毒传染案例，但其中存在一些疑问。
So far, scientists in China, Germany and Japan have reported cases of asymptomatic transmission of the new crown virus, but some doubts remain.
1月30日，国际顶尖医学期刊《新英格兰医学杂志（NEJM）》发表了关于德国四名感染新型冠状病毒患者的论文。
On January 30, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM), the leading international medical journal, published a paper on four new coronavirus infections in Germany.
文章称，1月20日和21日，一名来自上海的女商人参观了慕尼黑附近的一家公司，在那里她与后来感染的四名患者中的第一个人见面。
On January 20 and 21, a Shanghai-based businesswoman visited a company near Munich, where she met the first of four infected patients, the article said.
在逗留期间，她的健康状况一直都很好，没有感染的迹象或症状，但在返回中国的航班上发病。
During her stay, she remained in good health and showed no signs or symptoms of infection, but developed symptoms on flights back to China.
这篇文章很快被证实存在漏洞。
The article soon proved to be flawed.
文章作者并没有和这位女士进行过真正交谈。
The author of the article did not really talk to the lady.
巴伐利亚州卫生和食品安全管理局随后与上海患者进行的电话交谈结果发现，她在德国期间确实出现了症状。
A subsequent phone conversation with patients in Shanghai by the Bavarian Health and Food Safety Administration found that she had indeed developed symptoms while in Germany.
据知情人士透露，她感觉疲惫、肌肉疼痛，并服用了退烧药扑热息痛。
She felt tired, had muscle pain and took acetaminophen, according to people familiar with the matter.
第三军医大学呼吸学硕士蒋永源告诉本刊，德国论文中的情况在临床上叫做非患者自述的症状，非患者自述的病史可信度是非常低的。
The situation in the German paper is clinically called a non-patient self-reported symptom, and the credibility of the non-patient self-reported history is very low, Jiang Yongyuan, a master of respiratory science at the Third Military Medical University, told this print.
人们对于新型冠状病毒的所知还非常有限，从防疫的角度来说，谨慎是必须的。
People's knowledge of the new coronavirus is still very limited, from the point of view of epidemic prevention, cautious is necessary.
2月3日下午，国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》指出：“无症状感染者也可能成为传染源”。
In the afternoon of February 3, the National Fitness and Health Commission issued the "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 5)," said: "asymptomatic infection may also become a source of infection.
但目前，专家们普遍认为，不必对无症状感染者的出现感到恐慌。
But for now, experts generally agree that there is no need to panic about the presence of asymptomatic infections.
2月3日，世界卫生组织在给公众的指导中称，“基于现有数据，新型冠状病毒主要是由已出现症状的患者传播。
"Based on the available data, the new coronavirus is mainly transmitted by patients who have developed symptoms," the World Health Organization said in a statement to the public on February 3.
世卫组织已了解到感染者有在出现症状之前传播新型冠状病毒的可能性。
WHO has learned that infected people have the potential to spread the new coronavirus before symptoms develop.
根据对中东呼吸综合征（MERS）的观察，其他冠状病毒通过无症状患者传播的情况非常罕见。
According to observations of the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), other coronavirus transmission through asymptomatic patients is rare.
因此，无症状患者可能不是病毒主要的传播者。
Thus, asymptomatic patients may not be the main transmitters of the virus.
”2月3日，湖北省召开疫情防控工作新闻发布会。
On February 3, a press conference was held in Hubei province on prevention and control of the epidemic.
国家卫生健康委专家组成员、北京地坛医院感染二科主任医师蒋荣猛在发布会上表示，作为呼吸道传染病，排出病原体，需要有症状才可以传染，比如咳嗽可以把病毒排出来。
As a respiratory infectious disease, you need symptoms to transmit the pathogen, such as coughing, which can expel the virus, Jiang Rong-Meng, a member of the National Health Council's expert group and director of Infection Division II at Beijing Ditan Hospital, said at the press conference.
如果没有症状，通常认为即便有传染性也是非常弱的，所以没有必要太担心没有症状的感染者会大规模传染他人。
If there are no symptoms, it is often assumed that they are very weak even if they are contagious, so there is no need to worry too much about the large-scale transmission of asymptomatic infections to others.
2月5日，国家医疗专家组成员李兴旺在新闻发布会上表示，无症状感染者的病毒载量可能比较少，其传播力也会较弱。
On February 5, Li Xing, a member of the National Medical Expert Group, told a news conference that asymptomatic infections may have fewer viral loads and less transmission.
1月28日，国家卫生健康委员会的新闻发布会上，专家团也提到，现在更多的无症状感染者还是在密切接触者中发现的，这些密切接触者按现在的要求，都在进行医学观察，这样也就保证了我们对传染源的控制。
On 28 January, at a press conference of the National Board of Health, the Panel also mentioned that more asymptomatic infections are now being detected among close contacts who are conducting medical observations, as is now required, thus ensuring our control over the source of infection.
”远征 摄那么，新型冠状病毒会像艾滋病毒一样存在长期的无症状感染者吗？答案很可能是否定的。
So will the new coronavirus have a long-term asymptomatic infection like HIV? The answer is likely to be no.
剑桥大学病毒学助理研究员韩越告诉本刊，这种可能性不大。
Han Yue, an assistant virology researcher at Cambridge University, told the paper that this is unlikely.
“如果超过两周没有出现明显的临床症状，那么基本可以说病毒已经被人体免疫系统清除。
"In the absence of significant clinical symptoms for more than two weeks, the virus can be said to have been largely eliminated by the body's immune system.
”艾滋病毒则是一类非常特殊的RNA病毒，它能够将RNA转录成DNA，并整合进宿主的基因组内，以此来躲避免疫系统的攻击。
HIV is a very specific RNA virus that transcribes RNA into DNA and integrates it into the host's genome to ward off attacks from the immune system.
上述不愿具名的专家告诉本刊，非典病毒和新冠这类RNA病毒的稳定性差，极易降解，在非活体细胞存在的环境中寿命不会很长，在感染者体内的寿命也取决于自身的免疫力和抗病毒药物的有效干预。
Unnamed experts told the magazine that RNA viruses such as the SARS virus and the new crown are unstable, easily degradable, do not live long in the presence of non-living cells, and that life expectancy in infected people depends on their own immunity and effective antiviral interventions.
感染者通常只有两个结果：要么免疫力战胜病毒，治愈，病毒完全消失；要么病毒毒力猖狂，导致感染细胞增多，器官功能受损。
Infected people usually have only two outcomes: immunity triumphs over the virus, cures it, and the virus disappears completely; or the virus is rampant, leading to more infected cells and impaired organ functioning.
如果病毒毒力继续横行，将导致危及感染者生命。
If the virulence of the virus continues unabated, it could endanger the lives of those infected.
不过，患者死亡，并不意味着病毒消失，尸体中依然有大量病毒存在，彻底清理和消毒感染环境，杀死存活的病毒非常重要。
However, the death of a patient does not mean that the virus has disappeared. There is still a large number of viruses in the body. It is important to clean and disinfect the infected environment thoroughly and kill the surviving virus.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please stamp [5prE5teiFEn] New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
李秀莉。
Li Xiuli.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无症状感染会造成新冠防治的失控吗？​。
Does asymptomatic infection cause the new crown control to get out of hand?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "无症状感染会造成新冠防治的失控吗？​";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Does asymptomatic infection cause new crown control to go haywire?
var msg_desc = "新型冠状病毒的无症状感染者出现需要引起我们的警惕，但不必恐慌。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the presence of asymptomatic infection with new coronavirus requires vigilance, but not panic.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
