特写｜“应收尽收”总攻下的发热门诊：深夜，终于难得安静。
Feature: Fever clinic under general attack: Late at night, seldom quiet at last.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 廖艳 发自武汉三层外科手套、一层头套、一副面屏外加防护服，从医护人员通道进入隔离通道，才进入工作区域。
Liao Yan, a journalist, came from the three-storey Wuhan surgical glove, a hood, and a pair of face-screen and protective clothing.
这一系列的装备过程，很难与平常的“发热门诊”联系起来，但医护人员们明白，疫情之下，他们必须做好二级防护，防止感染。
This series of equipment is difficult to link with the usual "fever clinic," but medical staff understand that under the outbreak, they must do a good secondary protection, to prevent infection.
一个多月过去，新冠肺炎疫情笼罩着这座城市，确诊病例仍在上升，防控仍不能有丝毫松懈。
More than a month later, a new outbreak of pneumonia has engulfed the city, and confirmed cases are still on the rise.
2月10日，是武汉首次公布新冠肺炎疫情的第42天，“封城”的第19天。
February 10, Wuhan is the first to announce the outbreak of pneumonia in the 42-day, "closed" day 19.
湖北省卫健委2月10日消息，截至9日24时，武汉市新增新冠肺炎病例1921例，累计16902例。
As of 2400 hours on February 9, 1921 new cases of pneumonia had been reported in Wuhan, with a total of 16,902 cases, Hubei Province.
发热门诊是判断发热患者是否是疑似新冠肺炎病例的重要关卡，也是疫情防控工作中的重要一环。
Fever clinic is an important stage to judge whether the febrile patients are suspected cases of new crown pneumonia, and also an important part of the disease control work.
疫情以来，由于医疗资源紧张，“排队三小时”“看病到凌晨”是病患对武汉医院发热门诊的印象。
Since the outbreak, due to the shortage of medical resources, "queuing up for three hours" "seeing a doctor until dawn" is the patient's impression of the Wuhan hospital fever clinic.
面对不断增多的病人与有限的医疗资源之间的矛盾，武汉给出的方案，是建设火神山医院、雷神山医院以及方舱医院，形成重症轻症患者分流机制。
Faced with the contradiction between the increasing number of patients and limited medical resources, Wuhan has given the proposal is to build a fire Shenshan Hospital, Lei Shenshan Hospital and Fang Cao Hospital, a serious light patient diversion mechanism.
矛盾正在缓解。
The contradiction is easing.
随着新建医院投用和各项防控措施的实施，武汉市肺科医院发热门诊同时间段接诊人数，由三位数降至两位数。
With the construction of new hospitals and the implementation of various prevention and control measures, Wuhan City Pulmonary Hospital fever clinic in the same period of time, from three digits to double digits.
该医院是最早收治新冠肺炎患者的三家定点医院之一。
The hospital was one of the first three designated hospitals to treat patients with Newcomial Pneumonia.
该医院的接诊医生及护士2月7日均告诉澎湃新闻（www.thepaper.cn），当天，他们发热门诊接诊患者的人数出现“断崖式”下降。
The hospital's attending doctors and nurses told the surging news on February 7 (www.thepaper.cn) that there had been a "cliff-like" decline in the number of patients admitted to their fever clinic that day.
“原来一上午需要接诊40几名患者，现在一天才接诊40几名患者。
"I had to deal with about 40 patients this morning, but now I have 40 patients a day," he said.
”其中一名接诊医生说。
"said one of the attending doctors.
10日上午，刚值完发热门诊夜班的程真医生称，这两天接诊的患者跟7日那天差不多。
On the morning of the 10th, Cheng Zhen, who had just finished the night shift at the fever clinic, said the two-day visits were about the same as on the 7th day.
“昨天，我们三个医生白天接诊的人数加起来100多名。
Yesterday, more than 100 of our three doctors were admitted during the day
在此之前，最多的时候，我们三个医生可接诊300多名患者。
Up to that point, our three doctors had access to more than 300 patients.
”三天前，澎湃新闻记者在武汉市肺科医院探访十小时，记录患者分流之后发热门诊的状况。
"Three days ago, a Peng Pai journalist visited Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital for 10 hours to record the status of the fever clinic after the patient shunt.
当天深夜，这里难得地“静”了下来。
Late that night, here rarely "quiet" down.
一名患者独自在走廊输液。
One patient was alone in the corridor infusion.
本文图片 澎湃新闻记者 廖艳__1__2月7日下午3点，阴天，迎面吹在脸上的风，有点冷。
2007-9-25 21: 38 [hide] Liao Yan, journalist Liao Yan _ 1 _ February 7, 3: 00 p.m., cloudy day, head-on blow on the face of the wind, a bit cold.
进入发热门诊之前，护士宋笑笑问记者“你害怕吗？”“嗯，担心被感染。
Before entering the fever clinic, the nurse Song smiled and asked the reporter, "Are you afraid?" "Well, worried about getting infected.
”“不要怕，你跟着我，做好防护措施，没问题的。
'Don't be afraid; follow me, and take precautions; it will be all right.
”“全副武装”后的宋笑笑穿过亮着紫外线灯的房间后进入发热门诊。
"After the" fully armed "Song smiled through the room with the ultraviolet lamp and went into the fever clinic.
门后的走廊两边摆放着座椅，共16个，尚有空位。
On either side of the corridor behind the door were 16 seats, which remained vacant.
发热门诊内，脚步声与患者的咳嗽声、喘气声掺杂在一起。
In the fever clinic, footsteps mingled with the cough and panting of the patient.
身穿雨衣看病的患者“今天的患者相比昨天少了很多。
People in raincoats are seeing less patients today than they were yesterday.
”宋笑笑说，“大概是很多患者去了方舱医院吧”。
"Song said with a smile," Maybe a lot of patients went to the cabin hospital.
有发热症状的患者集中在这里，老年人居多。
Fever symptoms of the patients concentrated here, the majority of the elderly.
有的患者穿着一次性雨衣，戴着医用口罩在走廊边上打点滴；还有人戴着泳镜。
Some patients wore disposable raincoats and medical masks dripping along the hallway; others wore swimming glasses.
一名女士照顾生病的母亲，送饭后坐在窗外。
A lady looked after her sick mother and sat out the window after dinner.
继续深入，宋笑笑来到诊疗室，医护人员的工作间，配药室在最里面一间小屋子里。
Continuing in depth, Song smiled and came to the clinic, the staff room, the pharmacy room in the innermost room.
以诊疗室为中心，两旁是留观室，里面都住满了患者，一间8人，另一间7人。
The consultation room is the center, on both sides of the observation room, full of patients, one 8, another 7.
在这里，医护人员可以透过玻璃留意到留观室内患者的情况。
Here, medical staff can look through the glass to observe the condition of indoor patients.
“从临床诊断表现，留观室内的患者基本上是确诊新冠肺炎患者。
"In terms of clinical diagnosis, the patients in the observation room were basically those diagnosed with Newcomial Pneumonia.
这里的医护与患者之间被交叉感染风险非常大。
There is a very high risk of co-infection between the patient and the patient.
”在留观室值班的程真医生说，从他接诊新冠肺炎患者案例来看，新冠肺炎患者症状主要是以发热为主，从早期的低热慢慢变成持续高热，随后会出现呼吸困难的症状。
Dr Cheng, who is on duty in the observation room, said that in his treatment of patients with Newcrown Pneumonia, the symptoms of Newcrown Pneumonia were dominated by fever, which slowly changed from early low fever to persistent high fever, followed by dyspnea.
发热门诊留观室留观室里的患者，几乎每个人身边立着一个近一人高的氧气钢瓶，更有病情严重者用上了呼吸机。
Almost everyone in the fever clinic's observation room stood next to a nearly one-man oxygen cylinder and, more seriously, a ventilator.
他们大多数人坐在病床上，时而躺下，没有交谈。
Most of them sat in their beds, sometimes lying down and not talking.
有的患者见到医生时会哭泣；有的患者吸着氧，静静地发呆，眼睛没有神。
Some patients will cry when they see a doctor; some patients suck oxygen, quietly dazed, eyes without God.
一位73岁的老奶奶，躺在留观室的最里面，氧气面罩遮盖住她大半张脸，看不清样子。
A 73-year-old granny was lying in the innermost part of the observation room, with an oxygen mask covering most of her face.
她的旁边放着呼吸机，呼吸时发出的声音最大，像在“打呼噜”。
Beside her was a respirator with the loudest breathing sound, like "snoring."
“老奶奶昨天被家人送到这里的，来的时候已经意识不清楚。
"The old woman was sent here yesterday by her family, and she didn't know when she came.
老奶奶做的核酸检测结果呈阳性，她被确诊了。
Grandma tested positive for nucleic acid, and she was diagnosed.
”程真说：“没有办法，床位实在是安排不了。
"There is no way to arrange beds," Cheng said.
加上老奶奶情况很严重，哪怕有床位，转运也非常危险。
Plus, Grandma is in a very serious situation. Even with beds, transshipment is very dangerous.
”医护人员正在转运患者“护士，换针。
"The paramedics are transferring the patient," Nurse, change the needle.
”一位在走廊输液的患者喊着，负责治疗的护士连忙赶了过去。
"cried a patient infusion in the hallway as the nurse in charge rushed past.
配药、打针、换氧气罐是护士们的日常工作。
It is a routine job for nurses to dispense medicine, inject needles and change oxygen tanks.
一位护士推着比她高出一个头的氧气钢罐，挪到患者身旁。
A nurse pushed an oxygen tank one head above her and moved to the patient.
护士们来回穿梭在走廊、留观室、诊疗室，不曾停下来休息。
Nurses shuttled back and forth in hallways, observation rooms, and consultation rooms without stopping to rest.
来自该院肺结核第1病区的护士曹思说：“这是我支援的第一天，站了五六个小时，腰酸的厉害。
"It was the first day of my support," Cao Si, a nurse from the hospital's TB-1 area, said. "It was five or six hours of standing and it was very low.
”走廊东边有一间接诊室，里面坐着两位医生，主要负责看病人的CT报告。
In an indirect room on the east side of the hallway, two doctors were looking at the patients' CT reports.
接诊室外边，正排着一列长队。
Outside the reception room, there was a long line.
接诊室的医生正在查看患者报告结果。
The doctor in the consultation room is looking at the patient's report.
交谈工作的护士接诊室区域还有一名护士站在入口，负责分诊，此外，她还需要负责给外边进来的人开门。
The nurse who spoke to her was in the consultation area, and a nurse was standing at the entrance to attend to the patient and was responsible for opening the door for anyone who came in.
“这样避免患者和家属混乱进入室内。
"It keeps patients and families from entering the house in disorder.
”一名护士说，这也是他们慢慢摸索出来的。
"said one of the nurses.
一个多小时过去，接近傍晚，仍有患者不断进入发热门诊，走廊东边坐着几名老太太，戴着口罩靠在座位上输液，没有交谈。
More than an hour later, as the evening approached, patients continued to enter the fever clinic, and on the east side of the hallway sat several old ladies, wearing masks, infusion on their seats and not talking.
看望患者母亲的家属__2__“您帮我照看一下，他耳朵听不见，您说话得大声一点。
- - - - - - - - - - - - 14: 16 Look after my mother. He can't hear you.
”戴着老花眼镜，裹着帽子的刘楠对护士说。
'said Liu Nan, wearing old spectacles and a bonnet, to the nurse.
随后，他把坐在轮椅上的老父亲交给护士，向接诊室走去。
Then he handed his old father in a wheelchair to the nurse and walked to the reception room.
护士走来趴在这位老人耳边大声说：“嗲嗲，我现在要给你打针，手不要乱动。
The nurse came up and whispered in the old man's ear, "satay, I want to give you a shot now, don't move your hand.
”老人没有反应。
The old man made no response.
护士再一次大声说：“嗲嗲，我给你打针，要是不舒服，你跟我说哦。
The nurse cried out again, "satay, if I give you an injection, if you feel ill, tell me.
”这次，老父亲点了点头。
This time the old father nodded.
男子照顾83岁老父亲在留观室输液老人的输液单上写着年龄：83岁，主要输入一些增强免疫力的药物。
The man took care of the 83-year-old father and wrote on his infusion chart that he was 83 years old and that he was taking immune-boosting drugs.
扎好针，老人双手叠放。
Fasten the needle. The old man folded his hands.
护士见状后询问老人，“您是不是冷？但是这样你会容易跑针。
When the nurse saw this, she asked the old man, "Are you cold? But then you can run the needle easily.
”随后，护士把老人的双手拿开，将衣袖拉了拉，尽可能盖住手背，又把旁边开着的窗户关起来。
"Then the nurse took the old man's hands off his sleeve, pulled them over the back of his hand as far as possible, and shut the open window next to him.
没多久，老人的儿子赶了回来，护士交待好药物服用方法后，他扶着老人进了留观室输液。
Not long after, the old man's son rushed back, the nurse told the medicine method, he helped the old man into the observation room infusion.
“我年龄也大了，今年55岁。
"I'm old, too, and I'm 55.
父亲不舒服好几天了，但今天他才打电话告诉我。
Father hasn't been feeling well for days, but he just called me today.
”刘楠说到这，叹了口气。
'said Liu Nan, sighing.
“你要注意，不要跟患者说话。
"Be careful not to talk to the patient.
”刘楠反复嘱咐着，而他和他的老父亲坐在有确诊患者的留观室内，戴着两层医用口罩。
"Liu Nan repeated, while he and his old father sat in a visiting room with a confirmed patient and wore a two-storey medical mask.
留观室内的患者有的坐着，有的躺着，一直输着氧气，护士们的任务就是给患者换药、换氧气。
Some of the patients in the observation room sat down, others lay down and kept breathing oxygen. The nurses' job was to change the medicine and oxygen for the patients.
一名穿着紫色外套的老人，坐在走廊座位上吸氧、输液，旁边放着一次性杯子，还有块未吃完的小蛋糕。
An old man in a purple coat sat on a porch seat, sucking in oxygen, infusion, a disposable cup next to him, and a small piece of unfinished cake.
时不时咳嗽几声，便又闭上眼睛、喘着气休息。
I cough a few times and then close my eyes and take a breath.
他的斜对面，坐着一位穿着一次性黄色雨衣的女士，她也在挂水，一直用手捶着膝盖。
Across the slope from him sat a lady in a disposable yellow raincoat, who was also hanging water and banging her knees with her hands.
“护士，我能不能不打了，我不舒服。
"Nurse, I can't help it. I'm not feeling well.
”她对护士说，护士看了看她的输液单：“你还没打完，再等等。
"She told the nurse, who looked at her IV list," You're not finished yet, so wait.
”下午五点多钟，晚饭时间到了，陆陆续续有患者家属过来探望。
"More than five o'clock in the afternoon, dinner time arrived, followed by a trickle of family visits.
一位穿着简单的白色布制防护外衣的中年女士，提着保温饭盒，径直走向留观室，看望母亲。
A middle-aged woman in a simple white cloth frock, carrying an insulated lunch box, walked straight to the observation room to see her mother.
“您母亲现在情况如何？”“没有好转，但比待在家里要好一些。
How is your mother getting on? Not getting better, but better than staying at home.
”中年女士的声音显得疲惫，没等细问，她连忙摆了摆手离去“不说了，不说了。
"The middle-aged woman, tired and unasked in her voice, quickly waved her hand and left.
”护士张梅在留观室外，低声说：“她真的很辛苦。
"Nurse Zhang Mei, who was outside, said in a low voice," She's really hard working.
父母都得了新冠肺炎，70多岁的父亲已经转入住院，她现在需要两头来回跑，照顾家人。
With both parents suffering from pneumonia and her 70-year-old father already in hospital, she now needs to run back and forth to look after her family.
”透过病房玻璃，刚好可以看见中年女士站在床边，给母亲端菜端饭，母亲会接过饭菜，慢慢地吃上几口。
Through the glass in the room, the middle-aged woman could just be seen standing by the bed, bringing food to her mother, who would take the meal and eat it slowly.
待母亲吃过后，中年女士来到走廊，站在窗边，望着窗外，一脸惆怅。
After her mother ate, the middle-aged lady came into the corridor, stood by the window, and looked out of the window with a melancholy face.
此时，刘楠也照顾老父亲吃着医院提供的盒饭。
At this time, Liu Nan also took care of the old father to eat boxed rice provided by the hospital.
不久，他端着老父亲吃过的盒饭走出来，只有米饭有夹过的痕迹。
Before long, he came out with the boxed rice his old father had eaten, with only traces of it.
张梅说，医院接诊的患者中，很多都是一家一家被感染的患者。
Zhang said many of the patients admitted to the hospital were from families with infected patients.
晚上七点时，早班的护士就可以下班了。
At seven o'clock in the evening, the morning nurse will be able to leave work.
下班之前，她们需要与中班的护士做好医疗物资、患者情况等交接工作。
Before leaving work, they need to work with the middle class nurses to do a good job of medical supplies, patients and other handover.
宋笑笑和其他护士正在清数“克力芝”，“这个药很珍贵，我们每天要清点很多回，每小包分装20粒。
Song and the other nurses were counting Kaletra. "This medicine is so precious that we have to count it a lot every day and pack it in 20 tablets each.
”宋笑笑说，这种药对新冠肺炎有一定抑制作用。
Song said with a smile that the drug had some inhibitory effects on pneumonia.
“笑笑，今天的氧气罐多少个？”“32个。
Smile, how many oxygen tanks are there today? Thirty-two.
”宋笑笑和另一名护士在走廊尽头清点氧气罐后，发现已经空了6瓶。
When Song smiled and another nurse counted oxygen tanks at the end of the hallway, six bottles were empty.
走廊尽头的氧气罐__3__傍晚6点20分许，整个发热门诊变得安静起来。
At about 6: 20 p.m., the oxygen tank at the end of the corridor became quiet.
站在诊疗室内，仅听到旁边留观室患者的咳嗽声、喘气声。
Standing in the clinic, only the coughing and wheezing of the patient in the observation room next to him were heard.
走出诊疗室，走廊只剩下两名患者，他靠在椅子上挂水。
Out of the clinic, there were only two patients left in the hallway. He leaned back in his chair and hung water.
接诊室也只剩下医生一人。
There was only one doctor left in the consultation room.
“昨天，医院里的患者还满满当当，走廊上基本空无一席，不少人都是拿着输液杆，挂着满满输液袋，站着输液。
"Yesterday, the hospital was still full of patients, the corridor was almost empty, a lot of people are holding the infusion pole, hanging full of infusion bags, standing infusion.
”宋笑笑说，看到今天这般情况，对他们医护人员来说，压力相对减少，她长舒一口气。
Song said she heaved a sigh of relief when she saw how it was today and how much less pressure there was on their staff.
转身又继续交接工作。
Turn around and continue the handover.
夜幕逐渐降临，发热门诊的走廊也变得安静起来，只有一两名患者在输液。
As night fell, the hallway of the fever clinic became quiet, with only one or two patients receiving transfusions.
但在留观室，还有15名患者躺在床上吸氧；有的患者拿着手机正与家人视频，也有患者家属赶来陪同，聊聊天。
In the observation room, however, 15 patients were still lying in bed, breathing oxygen; some were holding cell phones with their families, while others were on their way to accompany them and chat.
挂着呼吸机老奶奶的孙子孙女过来关心情况，医生说：“现在，老奶奶的氧饱和只有60%，正常人需要达到95%以上。
Grandma's grandson, who was hanging on the ventilator, came to care for the situation. The doctor said, "The grandma is only 60% oxygen-saturated now, and normal people need to reach 95% or more.
”听完医生说的话后，孙子孙女回到留观室，陪在无意识的奶奶身边。
"After listening to the doctor, the grandson and granddaughter returned to the viewing room to stay with her unconscious grandmother.
40分钟后，宋笑笑与同事做完最后一个患者病例交接工作后，准备下班。
After 40 minutes, Song smiled and prepared to leave work after finishing the last patient transfer with a colleague.
宋笑笑和曹思走向员工通道，工作八小时的她突然回头说了声：“下班了，可以休息了。
Song smiled and Cao Si walked to the employee passageway. After working for eight hours, she suddenly turned around and said, "It's time to get off work.
”说罢，宋笑笑比了一个剪刀手。
"Song said with a smile than a knife-cutter.
晚上七点，中班的医护人员准时到了。
At seven o'clock in the evening, the medic arrived on time.
这一班次三名护士，一名医生。
There are three nurses and a doctor in this shift.
他们需要负责发热门诊所有的情况直至次日凌晨一点，其中，医生需要值班到次日早上八点。
They are responsible for all cases at the fever clinic until 1 a.m. the next morning, when the doctor is required to be on duty until 8 a.m.
护士张洁与他人穿得有点不同，她在防护服外边还套上一件一次性蓝色手术服，但走起路来风风火火。
Nurse Zhang Jie is a bit different from others. She wears a disposable blue dress outside her protective clothing, but walks like a hot dog.
张洁给患者更换氧气，顺便给患者倒热水，一会跑去门诊入口开门。
Zhang Jie to replace the patient with oxygen, incidentally poured hot water, a run to the outpatient entrance door.
“我今天第一次值晚班，就跟着其他护士多了解一下情况。
"I was on my first night on duty today, so I followed the other nurses to find out more.
”张洁说完后，她又跑出去，给此前坐在走廊打针紫色外套的老人，临时搭一个行军床，让其躺下。
"After Zhang Jie finished, she ran out again and made a makeshift camp bed for the old man who had been sitting in the corridor with his needle and purple coat.
晚间，偶尔有一两名患者过来，但了解完相关报告后就都回去了。
At night, occasionally one or two patients came, but after learning about the relevant reports, they all went back.
此时，不到晚上九点，走廊已经空无一人。
By this time, the corridor was deserted before nine in the evening.
“今天患者人数突然‘断崖式’下降，以往晚上都得看到凌晨一两点。
"There was a sudden drop in the number of patients today, and we used to see one or two in the morning.
”医生陈南说，发热门诊开设后，他就一直待在抗疫一线，2月7日这天是目前为止接诊患者最少的一天。
Doctor Chen Nan said he had been on the frontline since the fever clinic opened and February 7 was the day patients were treated the least.
“我接收的第一例发热病人是来自华南海鲜市场的，年龄在50岁以上。
"The first feverish patient I received was from the South China seafood market and was over 50 years old.
”陈南说，一个多月以来，他们遇到不少患者带有恐慌情绪，有的患者会哭泣。
For more than a month, Mr. Chen says, 'they've had a lot of panic attacks from patients, some of whom cry.
那时，陈南还会“吼”上两句，待患者平复后，安慰他们，继续给他们看病。
At that time, Chen Nan will also "roar" two sentences, waiting for the patient to calm down, comfort them, continue to treat them.
在张洁刚稍作休息时，她又接到通知，留观室有一名病人即将转院，张洁随同另一名护士帮病人转院。
Zhang Jie Gang took a short rest, she was informed that a patient in the observation room is about to be transferred to hospital, Zhang Jie with another nurse to help patients transfer.
张洁推着一辆轮椅进入留观室，备好一个氧气袋。
Zhang Jie pushed a wheelchair into the observation room and prepared an oxygen bag.
“慢一点，慢一点。
"Slow down, slow down.
”张洁说，她一边指导患者家属将患者扶到轮椅处，一边拿着氧气袋保证供氧。
Zhang said she instructed her family to lift the patient to a wheelchair, holding an oxygen bag to ensure oxygen supply.
半小时以后又来了一名留观患者。
Half an hour later a visiting patient arrived.
一进留观室，就被插上了氧气管。
Once inside the observation room, the oxygen tube was inserted.
起雾的护目镜因长期戴手套，起了湿疹的双手__4_晚上十点钟，发热门诊里仅能听见护士的脚步声，患者的咳嗽与喘气声。
The foggy goggles, long worn with gloves, had eczema of the hands _ 4 _ 10 p.m., the fever clinic could only hear the nurse's footsteps, the patient's coughing and wheezing.
留观室大多数病人已经入睡，但有一位戴着枣红色帽子的老爷爷，他插着氧气管仍坐着，捧着手机看电视剧。
Most of the patients in the viewing room were asleep, but there was an old man in a jujube hat who sat with his oxygen tube in his hand and watched the TV play on his cell phone.
夜晚十点多，捧着手机看剧的老爷爷另一间留观室里，刘楠的老父亲仍坐在留观室在输液，刘楠则躺在走廊外的椅子上边睡着了。
At night more than 10 o'clock, holding the mobile phone to see the play grandpa another study room, Liu Nan's old father is still sitting in the observation room infusion, Liu Nan lying on a chair outside the corridor fell asleep.
护士张洁和谢芳来到诊疗室，第一次看见她们坐下来休息。
Nurse Zhang Jie and Xie Fang came to the clinic and saw them sit down for the first time.
“昨天工作的时候，我们里面的衣服都是湿了又干，干了又湿，来回得三遍。
"When we were at work yesterday, our clothes were wet and dry, dry and wet, and we went back and forth three times.
今天的工作算比较轻松一点。
Today's work is a little easier.
”谢芳笑笑说，衣服没湿。
Xie Fang smiled and said the clothes were not wet.
他们虽坐在诊疗室，但手中又忙起清点“克力芝”的颗数，眼睛时不时要张望一下留观室的情况。
They sat in the clinic, but they were busy counting the Kaletra numbers.Every now and then they looked into the observation room.
张洁望向那位病状很严重的老奶奶（挂着呼吸机）时叹气说：“现在完全靠氧气支撑着。
Zhang sighed at the sickly granny, who was hanging on her breathing machine. "It's all oxygen now."
”回想起这些天来抗疫的日子，张洁说，他们时常会与患者发生矛盾和冲突。
Recalling the days of fighting the disease, Zhang said they often had problems and conflicts with patients.
“记得前几天，我值白班的时候，有一名患者因打针慢了，他差点要打护士长。
"I remember the other day, when I was in the daytime, one of the patients had a slow injection and he almost had to call the head nurse.
”张洁当时非常紧张，生怕对方会打自己，但还是坚持给这名患者打完了针。
Zhang was so nervous that she was afraid the other person would hit her, but insisted she gave the patient the injection.
晚上11点，留观室的灯熄了。
At 11 p.m., the light in the observation room went out.
只有那位戴枣红色帽子的爷爷还坐着，时不时拿出手机看一眼。
Only the grandpa in the jujube-red hat was still sitting, taking out his cell phone every now and then.
“我问过他，要不要躺下休息，他说坐着舒服一点。
"I asked him if he wanted to lie down and rest. He said he would be comfortable sitting down.
”谢芳说。
'said Xie Fang.
刘楠带着老父亲刚刚离开门诊，准备回家。
Liu Nan and his old father just left the clinic, ready to go home.
夜晚的时间总是过的特别漫长，还有一小时，将迎来第二天。
The night was always a long one, and there was an hour to go until the next day.
谢芳和张洁待在诊疗室，一边观望留观室病人情况，一边整理交接的工作。
Xie Fang and Zhang Jie stay in the clinic, watching the patient in the observation room, while arranging the handover work.
“叮咚叮咚”门铃声突然响起，张洁连忙起身去开门，进来四五名身穿黄色防护服的人，其中两人手里拿着担架。
"Ding Dong Dong Dong" door bell suddenly sounded, Zhang Jie quickly rose to open the door, four or five people in yellow protective clothing, two of them with stretchers in their hands.
穿过走廊，他们向住院区域走去。
Across the hallway, they headed for the hospitalized area.
数十分钟后，身穿黄色防护服的人，抬着担架匆匆走过。
Dozens of minutes later, men in yellow protective clothing hurried past with stretchers.
“ICU有个患者刚刚去世了。
"One patient in the ICU has just died.
”张洁说。
"said Zhang Jie.
顿时，张洁和谢芳的心变得有些沉重。
Suddenly, Zhang Jie and Xie Fang's heart became a little heavy.
凌晨一点的发热门诊走廊凌晨1点，走出待了十余小时的发热门诊，武汉依旧那般“不吵”、“不堵”。
1 a.m. in the fever clinic corridor, out of the fever clinic for more than 10 hours, Wuhan is still so "not noisy," "not plug."
医院还亮着灯。
The hospital still had lights on.
（文中人名均为化名）本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
The editor of this issue, Zhou Yuhua, recommends reading it.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
特写｜“应收尽收”总攻下的发热门诊：深夜，终于难得安静。
Feature: Fever clinic under general attack: Late at night, seldom quiet at last.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "特写｜“应收尽收”总攻下的发热门诊：深夜，终于难得安静";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; feature, less than a feverish clinic under its general attack: Late at night, at last Rite & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "深夜，终于难得安静";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; late at night, at last Rite & quot;
title: '除夕至初六，上海战“疫”争分夺秒全纪录',。
At New Year's Eve, at New Year's Eve, at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '女子排队买烤鸭时被感染',。
Was AT & P's service at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
