从未见过的家乡：河南信阳老家的全民抗疫战_思想市场_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Never seen in the hometown: Henan Xinyang, the national anti-epidemic war _ thought market _ surging news - The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 思想市场。
& gt; The Idea Market.
从未见过的家乡：河南信阳老家的全民抗疫战。
Never seen the hometown: Henan Xinyang hometown of the national anti-epidemic war.
王黎/武汉大学中国乡村治理研究中心。
Wang Li / Wuhan University China Rural Governance Research Center.
2020-02-06 12:24 来源：澎湃新闻。
2020-02-06 12: 24 Source: surging news.
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
笔者老家在河南信阳，是武汉热门人口流入地。
The author's hometown in Henan Xinyang, Wuhan hot population flow into the ground.
据有关数据统计，在武汉的流入人口中，信阳户籍人口占1.54%，比例不低于其他武汉周边的地级市。
According to statistics, the population inflow into Wuhan, Xinyang household registration population of 1.54 percent, the proportion is not less than the other Wuhan around the city level.
我及身边很多亲友常年在武汉读书、工作、生活，春节返乡也是大家普遍的习惯。
I and a lot of friends and relatives in Wuhan all year round study, work, life, Spring Festival return home is also a common habit.
在这种背景下，老家信阳的疫情防控形势非常严峻。
In this context, the home Xinyang epidemic prevention and control situation is very serious.
截至2月3号，信阳确诊99例，成为河南省确诊病例最多的地级市。
As of February 3, Xinyang diagnosis of 99 cases, Henan Province, the most confirmed cases of the city.
从1月25号起，笔者家所在的村庄进入全民防疫的状态。
From January 25, the author's home village into the state of universal immunization.
就在战斗坚持到第十天，隔壁村庄出现1例新冠肺炎病例，这个病人十里八乡的乡亲们都认识，他20号到武汉感染病毒，回来后也没自觉隔离，确诊的消息传来后，周边各个村庄的防疫气氛陡然变得更加紧张。
Ten days into the fighting, there was a case of New Crown Pneumonia in the next village. The villagers knew him. He came back from Wuhan infected with the virus and did not isolate himself.
（一）非常时期，非常状态，这是从未见过的家乡1、村庄的全民防疫战争在正月初一打响1月25号也就是正月初一，河南省启动重大突发公共卫生事件一级应急响应，很快村里的各项防疫措施就逐渐落实，村庄的防疫战斗正式打响。
The first-level emergency response to major public health emergencies was launched in Henan Province on January 25, the first day of the first month. Soon after the implementation of various epidemic prevention measures in the village, the battle against epidemic in the villages was officially launched.
武汉疫情的消息早已爆发好几天，但是大年三十，家门口的集市还是熙熙攘攘，车水马龙，农民仿佛还觉得疫情离自己很遥远。
Wuhan outbreak of news has broken out for several days, but in the New Year's 30, the market is still bustling, crowded, farmers seem to feel that the epidemic is very far from their own.
到了初一大早，县里和乡里就有巡逻车来回宣传，号召农民们不要拜年、串门、走亲戚。
Early in the morning, the county and the countryside have patrol cars back and forth propaganda, farmers are called upon not to pay New Year's visit, visiting relatives.
这种号召就像一根导火索，瞬间点燃了隐藏在村民心里的恐慌。
The call was like a fuse that ignited a moment of panic in the heart of the villagers.
这种恐慌在政府引导下迅速转变成村民的防疫意识和防疫行动，村庄里的风气随即发生转变。
This panic, led by the Government, quickly translated into vaccination awareness and vaccination campaigns for the villagers, and the atmosphere in the villages changed accordingly.
前一晚，大家还在犹疑着要不要上门拜年，初一一大早，不拜年、不串门、不走亲戚就成了新潮。
The night before, we were still hesitating whether to pay a New Year call, the early morning, do not pay New Year, do not visit, do not go to relatives has become trendy.
从不拜年、不串门、不走亲戚开始，自觉的防疫行为也很快扩展到其他社会生活领域：年前村里一位老人去世了，家里定的是正月初三办丧事，但是防疫状态下，很少有人去吊唁，最后也只是静悄悄安葬了老人；正月初四原本是镇上集市开张的日子，但这天商贩也好，村民也好，都默契地不上街；还有一户儿子娶媳妇的，原本定在正月初六办喜酒，后来也决定推迟……2月2号（正月初九）听说隔壁村有1名确诊病例，村民的神经一下绷得更紧了，这些天原本就空空无人的马路更是见不到一个人影了，有的村民甚至用铁锁锁上自家大门，谢绝一切访客。
A few people in the village died a few years ago, but few mourned for the first three days of the first month. However, when they heard of the opening of the market in the first month, the villagers were unable to see anyone else.
防疫状态下，我度过了记忆中最安静的年，也是妈妈记忆里最安静的年。
Under the state of epidemic prevention, I spent the quietest year in my memory, but also the quietest year in my mother's memory.
2、隔离在家的农民不是“孤岛”截至2月3 号（正月初十），我自己在家隔离了14天，而整个村庄也已经安静了10天。
By February 3 (the tenth day of the first month), I had been isolated at home for 14 days, and the village had been quiet for 10 days.
就这些天的观察来看，农民心态总体比较平稳，村庄也比较有序，“封村”和居家隔离并没有造成恐慌。
In these days of observation, the overall state of mind of farmers is relatively stable, the village is more orderly, "closed" and home isolation did not cause panic.
一方面，大多数农民家里年前储备了丰富的年货吃食，当前我们当地街上超市还在开着保证基本生活供应，村民自家菜园里也还有一些青菜，所以目前农民家庭还不担心基本生活物质保障问题。
On the one hand, most farmers have a large stock of new year's food in their homes. At present, supermarkets in our local streets are running basic supplies, and villagers have some vegetables in their gardens.
农民将现在的生活归结为“吃了睡，睡了吃”；另一方面，村里同城市不一样，尽管家家户户各自宅在家里，但由于相互之间彼此熟识、知根知底，所以宅在家里的村民不是相互隔离的“孤岛”，村庄内部也不是完全封闭的，村民还可以通过微信、电话、隔空喊话等方式保持基本的交流，宗亲内部、左邻右舍之间在需要时还可以提供基本的帮助。
On the other hand, the villagers, though familiar with each other and well-informed, are not isolated "isolated islands" within their villages. They can also maintain basic communication by means of micro-letters, telephone calls, short conversations, etc., and can provide basic help when needed.
天放晴以来，村民会在自家的门口晒会太阳，也会远远地相互聊两句，有些中老年人还去地里干点农活，这种半封闭、半开放式的隔离状态有助于缓解农民的压抑感和紧张感。
The semi-closed, semi-open isolation of villagers, who bask in the sun at their own gates and talk to each other at a distance, and some of the middle-aged and elderly people go to the fields to do some farm work, helps ease the farmers' sense of oppression and tension.
农村生活有很多特点，比如农民独门独户居住空间上相对分散、人口密度相对较低、自然湾子里熟人社会关系网络仍然可以发挥作用、农业生产仍然在维持等，这些特点有助于减轻居家隔离对农民的心理恐慌，提升农民应对风险和突发事件的能力。
Many features of rural life, such as the relative dispersion of peasant households, the relatively low population density, the still functioning social network of acquaintances in the natural Gulf, and the ongoing maintenance of agricultural production, have helped to reduce psychological panic among farmers in isolated homes and to enhance their ability to cope with risks and emergencies.
3、农民说“只要挺过这段时间就好了”疫时村庄的非常规状态给村民生活带来诸多不便，比如村中很多农民家庭依靠在集市上做小生意为生，往年正月十五之前正是赚钱时候，但疫情之下集市关闭，村民做不了生意，有的年前囤了货的都要亏掉；再如很多中年人不怎么玩手机，平日里就喜欢在村里聊天打牌，现在也只能宅在家里；也有少数没有重视起来的农民，仍然平像时一样在村里串门，但很快就发现其实自己并不受欢迎。
When the epidemic struck, many peasant families lived on small businesses in the market. Before the fifteenth day of the previous year, many farmers could not do business, and some had to lose money. For example, many middle-aged people did not play with cell phones, and now they could only stay at home.
但是这些不便也并未给村庄防疫造成很大困扰，村里这些天一直是非常安静、紧张的状态。
But these inconveniences also did not cause great distress to the village vaccination, these days the village has been very quiet, tense state.
就这些天观察来看，农民对此次防疫战斗中的心态普遍是积极的。
These days, the observation of the farmers in the battle against epidemic mentality is generally positive.
母亲常年在街上做些小生意，以往大年初三就开始忙碌，整年都舍不得休息。
My mother used to do some small business in the street. She used to be busy on the third day of New Year.
此次疫情，母亲隔离在家竟然非常耐心，还经常主动给亲友打电话、发微信提醒他们不要出门。
This outbreak, the mother isolation at home even very patient, but often take the initiative to call relatives and friends, send a letter to remind them not to go out.
在她看来，当下蹲在家里是为了保护自己和家人免受传染，“只要挺过这段时间就好了”。
In her view, squatting at home now is to protect herself and her family from infection, "as long as it takes."
网上流行一种说法叫做现在到了“躺在家里就能为国家做贡献”，母亲听了竟然也表示很有道理。
The popular Internet saying that now "lying at home can make a contribution to the country", mother also heard a good reason.
当下家乡农民进行的居家隔离是农民自觉参与防疫、主动与疫情作斗争的行为。
At present, the isolation of the farmers in their hometown is the act of taking part in epidemic prevention and fighting the epidemic actively.
农民之所以不慌，是因为他们意识深处相信疫情的结束不是遥遥无期的，坚持隔离一段时间，一切会恢复正常。
Farmers are not panicking because they are deeply convinced that the end of the epidemic is not a foregone conclusion and that everything will return to normal after a period of isolation.
甚至，有的农民还在自觉的参与中体会到个人对国家、对社会的模糊的、朴素的责任感，居家隔离有利于自己的，也有利于国家的。
Some farmers even consciously participate in the realization of the individual to the State, the society vague, simple sense of responsibility, home isolation is beneficial to their own, but also conducive to the country.
十天动员时期，农民心理状态总体上比较积极，大部分农民是有自觉、有希望的，农民紧张但不慌张。
During the ten-day mobilization period, the farmers' psychological state was generally positive. Most of them were conscious and hopeful, and the peasants were nervous but not flustered.
（二）病毒已在我们周围，基层干部和村医是冲到一线的人 从村里的防疫战斗正式打响开始，乡镇干部、村干部和村医就一直忙碌在防疫战斗第一线。
(2) Viruses are already around us, and basic cadres and village doctors are the ones who rush to the frontline to start the epidemic prevention battle in the village.
2月2号，乡里出现第一例确诊病例后，基层干部工作也更加紧张了。
On February 2, after the first confirmed case in the township, the work of grassroots cadres has become more intense.
当前老家农村的防疫措施主要包括：1、对返乡人员进行摸排和来源地分类管理，尤其对湖北返乡人员和武汉返乡人员重点关注。
At present, preventive measures in rural areas of home areas mainly include: 1. mapping and classifying returnees, with particular attention to returnees in Hubei Province and those returning to Wuhan.
我们村里总人口700多人，此次前期排查到20名湖北返乡人员，其中16名来自武汉，中后期仍然会不断排查更新。
Our village population of more than 700, this early identified 20 Hubei returnees, 16 of them from Wuhan, will continue to check and update.
隔壁村庄出现确诊病例之后，周边所有村庄都非常紧张。
Following the confirmed case in the next village, all the surrounding villages were tense.
我村更是当天就紧锣密鼓展开本村接触人员的排查。
My village is the day on the intensive launch of contact with the village personnel inventory.
对于排查到的所有重点人员，基层干部都会采取适当措施要求其在家隔离，并对其进行追踪和监督。
For all key personnel identified, grass-roots cadres take appropriate measures to require them to be isolated at home and to track and monitor them.
比如我自己是腊月二十七从武汉返乡，从腊月二十九开始，村医就戴口罩上门统计我的信息，包括姓名、电话、身份证号、返乡时间、从哪里返回来，身体状况如何等。
For example, I am returning home from Wuhan on July 27, 2009, village doctors wear masks to check my information, including name, telephone, identity card number, time back home, where to return from, physical condition, etc.
除了信息登记外，村医叮嘱我们不要出门，自行在家隔离14天。
In addition to information registration, village doctors told us not to go out, isolation at home for 14 days.
大年初一，村医再次上门，送来体温计和自己的联系方式，让我们每天测体温并上报。
On the first day of New Year, the village doctor again, sent a thermometer and his contact information, let us take temperature every day and report.
此外，与我密切接触的人员比如父母的各项信息和情况也要登记、上报。
In addition, all information and information about people in close contact with me, such as parents, should be registered and reported.
2、大力进行防疫宣传。
2. Vigorously carry out epidemic prevention campaigns.
全民防疫涉及到千家万户，在民众普遍有恐惧有自觉的情况下，搞好宣传能够不断拧紧农民思想上的弦，保持战时状态持续有序。
People's epidemic prevention involves thousands of families, in the general fear of conscious circumstances, do a good job of publicity can tighten the ideological strings of farmers, to maintain the war state of order.
从初一开始，县里和乡里的巡逻车就每天开着高音喇叭来回巡逻，前期一天少则两三次，多则四五次。
From the beginning of junior high school, the county and township patrol cars every day on the loudspeaker patrol, a day less than two or three, four or five times.
昨天（2号）隔壁村出现确诊病例之后，巡逻车一天宣传七八次。
The patrol car ran seven or eight times a day following a confirmed case in the village next door (No.2).
巡逻车的存在不时提醒着我们正处在“非常状态”。
The presence of patrol cars is a constant reminder that we are in a state of emergency.
村庄最显眼处张贴了“出门戴口罩、进门勤洗手”之类的提示标语；此外，村干部每日在村里走动，看见哪里有聚会、串门，哪个乡亲出门不戴口罩，隔老远就提醒、劝阻，比如村里村民在门口晒太阳没戴口罩，有的三五聚在一块聊天，村干部见了远远就吆喝“门口晒太阳也要戴上口罩”、“不要聚在一块儿”！最后，村里还成立了“返乡人员防控微信群”，村干部、村医、返乡人员都在其中，很多非返乡的乡亲们也被拉到群里，村干部、村医等每天会在群里发布疫情消息、防疫知识、政府号召等，还会在群里鼓励大家为疫情防控捐款，这些也起到很好的宣传作用。
In addition, village officials walk around the village every day and see where there are meetings and visits, and which villagers go out without wearing masks. They warn and discourage villagers from going out without wearing masks.
3、村庄交通管制，主要是在入村路口设置劝返点，对进出本村的人员、车辆等进行询问盘查。
3. Village traffic control, mainly at the entrance to the village set up persuasion points, access to the village personnel, vehicles and other inquiries.
前期村里总共设置了8个劝返点，每个劝返点1-2个固定守班，都是请的本村60岁以上的老头，每人每天50元。
A total of eight counselling points were set up in the villages in the previous period, each with one to two fixed watch stations. They were all old men over 60 years of age in their village, each of whom spent 50 yuan per person per day.
村里5个干部在几个劝返点流动值班。
Five village officials were on duty at several points of persuasion.
乡镇主要干部也会在全镇范围内来回查看。
Leading township officials also check back and forth throughout the town.
从我村的劝返点的情况来看，一般是在路口处拉一条绳或者放置一套桌椅板凳，有车辆或者行人过来就招停询问情况。
From the point of view of my village persuasion, generally at the entrance to pull a rope or a set of tables and benches, there are vehicles or pedestrians come over to stop the inquiry.
劝返工作的总体思路是，劝返不是封路，目的是尽量禁止生人进入本村生活区，也禁止重点监控人员出门出村。
The general thrust of the persuasion process is that it is not a closed road and is aimed at preventing strangers from entering their villages as much as possible, as well as key surveillance personnel from leaving the village.
原则上要求外村人来本村聚会、走亲戚的一律劝返，本村村民尤其是武汉返乡人员无特殊原因想要外出的也一律劝返，途经本村的、有急事的、有重大事情的酌情放行。
In principle, villagers from outside villages are required to come to their villages for gatherings and visits by relatives. Villagers, especially Wuhan returnees, who wish to go out without any special reason are also advised to return.
基层干部在这个过程中有一定的自主决定权。
Cadres at the grass-roots level have some discretion in this process.
4、营业场所的管制。
(4) Control of business premises.
集镇上的所有营业场所，包括商店、商贩等都不准营业，只有个别超市可以开着，保证农民基本生活物品的供应。
All places of business in market towns, including shops and traders, are closed, and only individual supermarkets are open, guaranteeing the supply of basic necessities for farmers.
派出所民警、村干部等定时上街巡逻，看到有开门营业的就劝阻，比如正月初六，周边村子的几个老奶奶老爷爷还像往常一样挑着自己地里种的菜来街上卖，就被派出所和村干部一并劝回。
At the beginning of January, for example, several grandmothers and grandfathers from surrounding villages brought food from their fields for sale in the streets, and were persuaded to return by police stations and village officials.
（三）基层组织式农村防疫的中坚力量战“疫”打响第十天，既是疫情爆发的关键时期，也是农民节后返城的高峰时期，特别是附近出现第一例确诊病例的时期。
The tenth day of the epidemic, the backbone of grass-roots organization-based rural epidemic prevention, is not only a critical period for the outbreak of the epidemic, but also the peak period for farmers returning to the city after the Festivals, especially the period when the first confirmed case occurred nearby.
战斗远远没有结束，家乡面临的防疫形势依然严峻。
The battle is far from over, and the epidemic situation facing home is still grim.
正如村干部所宣传的，“疫情已在我们周围，千万紧张起来！”就笔者家乡这些天的情况来看，基层组织是打赢这场防疫战争的中坚力量，必须继续发挥基层组织的宣传动员、示范带头、督促劝阻等作用。
As the village cadres have said, "the epidemic situation is all around us, 10 million tense up!" As far as the situation in my hometown these days, grass-roots organizations are the backbone to win the war against epidemic, and must continue to play the role of grass-roots organizations in publicity and mobilization, exemplary leadership and dissuasion.
不过，当前农村基层防疫还应注意以下几个问题：1、莫让形式主义耗费基层干部的精力。
However, at present, grass-roots epidemic prevention in rural areas should also pay attention to the following issues: 1, do not let formalism consume grass-roots cadres energy.
就我村的情况来看，防疫特殊时期的报表、材料、文件、开会都很多。
As far as my village is concerned, there are many reports, materials, documents and meetings during the special epidemic prevention period.
上面要求村干部为武汉和湖北的重点返乡人员建档，但是平均每三天，档案格式就要变一次，每变一次村干部都要把所有人员档案再重新整理写一遍。
The village officials were asked to build files for key returnees in Wuhan and Hubei, but every three days, the file format changed once every three days.
档案里的信息事无巨细、极为繁琐，就第三版来看，不仅包括重点返乡人员个人详细基本信息和身体状况信息，还有其密切接触人员的基本信息、活动范围、身体情况。
The information in the file is not only detailed and detailed, but also includes, in the third edition, not only detailed basic personal and physical information on key returnees, but also basic information on their close contacts, the scope of their activities and their physical condition.
很多信息需要在隔离期间每天更新。
Much of the information needs to be updated daily during isolation.
这些工作浪费了村干部很多时间和精力，我村有5个干部，就要调出一个干部出来专门整材料。
These efforts have wasted a lot of time and energy of village cadres. There are five cadres in our village.
实际上，这些看起来非常完整的档案本身对于防疫本身作用不大，主要是为了“应付领导检查”和事后“避责”。
In fact, these seemingly complete files themselves do not contribute much to the epidemic itself, mainly to "cope with leadership inspection" and "avoid responsibility" afterwards.
面对这些意义不大的工作，下面基层干部也很无奈，在上面要求下，基层干部也只能应付。
In the face of these insignificant work, the following cadres are also very helpless, in the above requirements, grass-roots cadres can only cope.
防疫斗争中，应当避免这些形式主义工作耗费村干部的精力。
In the fight against epidemic prevention, these formalistic efforts should not consume the energy of village cadres.
2、不同村庄之间防疫状况两极分化，有的自然村或者行政村很重视，防疫工作比较有序，有的自然村或者行政村不重视，防疫情况不容乐观。
Different villages are polarized in epidemic prevention. Some natural villages or administrative villages attach great importance to epidemic prevention. Some natural villages or administrative villages attach little importance to epidemic prevention.
当前农村防疫战争需要持续若干时间，因此，农村防疫不能只靠村民自觉，需要基层组织积极引导，形成整村的动员。
At present, the rural epidemic prevention war needs some time. Therefore, the rural epidemic prevention should not only rely on the villagers' consciousness, but should be actively guided by grass-roots organizations.
笔者老家村庄的目前各方力量都被动员起来防疫：普通村民自觉限制在家；乡镇干部、村干部和村医抓紧落实各项措施，进行宣传；从外返乡人员也能够自觉配合村里自觉隔离。
At present, all forces in the villages of the author's hometown have been mobilized to prevent epidemic diseases: ordinary villagers have voluntarily restricted their stay at home; township cadres, village cadres and village doctors are working hard to carry out measures to publicize the disease.
整个村庄形成非常规时期相对常规化的防疫体系。
The whole village forms a relatively routine epidemic prevention system during the unconventional period.
但是就我所知，周边还有很多村庄防疫还很松懈，全靠农民自觉。
But as far as I know, there are still many villages around the epidemic prevention is very loose, depending on the farmers consciousness.
这些村庄内未形成防疫氛围的主要原因在于，基层干部的重视不够，宣传动员不够。
The main reason for the lack of epidemic prevention atmosphere in these villages lies in the insufficient attention and mobilization of grass-roots cadres.
松懈的状态下，农民普遍不把防疫当回事，出门不戴口罩，有的还聚众打牌。
Lax state, farmers generally do not take vaccination seriously, go out without wearing masks, some people also gather to play cards.
即便个别村民自觉防护，但是对那些不自觉的人也毫无办法。
Even if individual villagers defend themselves, there is nothing they can do about the unconscious.
因此，当前有必要进一步加强对基层组织的督促，尤其应当督促各自然村或村民小组的基层干部加强防疫宣传。
Therefore, it is necessary to further strengthen the supervision of grass-roots organizations, especially to urge grass-roots cadres in natural villages or villagers' groups to strengthen epidemic prevention campaigns.
3、应当加强基层干部的保护。
Protection of cadres at the grass-roots level should be strengthened.
从我村目前的情况来看，村干部只有简单的一次性医用口罩进行防疫保护，还存在口罩反复使用的情况。
From the current situation of our village, village cadres only a simple disposable medical mask for immunization protection, there are repeated use of masks.
基层干部的防疫保护面临两个问题，一是部分基层干部的防疫意识不高，不愿意戴口罩；二是基层的防疫资源不足。
The basic cadres face two problems in epidemic prevention protection, one is that some basic cadres are not sufficiently aware of epidemic prevention and are unwilling to wear masks; the other is that grass-roots epidemic prevention resources are insufficient.
战斗十天，村干部只采购过一回医用口罩，现在市场上已经买不到口罩了，而上面也没有相关资源下来。
Ten days of fighting, village cadres only once purchased a medical mask, now no longer available on the market, and there are no related resources above.
目前村里并无专项经非，村里疫情防控资源主要来自于：一、村干部自己家里节省出来的口罩、酒精等；二、村两委自己捐款；三、民间个人捐款。
At present, there are no special roads and rivers in the village. The resources for disease prevention and control in the villages mainly come from: (1) masks and alcohol saved by village cadres in their own homes; (2) donations from the two committees themselves; and (3) donations from private individuals.
但是仅仅依靠民间资源是不够的。
But relying on private resources alone is not enough.
农村基层干部工资不高，笔者家乡一个普通干部一年补贴只有1万多元。
Rural grass-roots cadres wages are not high, the author's hometown of a common cadre a year only 10,000 yuan subsidies.
防控战“疫”开始后，主要凭借精神力量和责任感冲在防控前线，政策资源向农村基层的适当倾斜，对于基层干部既是保护也是鼓励。
Prevention and control of the "epidemic" began, mainly relying on the spirit of strength and sense of responsibility rushed in the front line, policy resources to the rural grass-roots level appropriate tilt, for grass-roots cadres is both protection and encouragement.
(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(This article comes from Pai Pai News. For more original information, please download the "Peng Pai News" APP.)
责任编辑：朱凡校对：刘威。
Responsibility Editor: Zhu Fan proofread by Liu Wei.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 抗疫,乡村,河南信阳,基层治理。
Key words & gt; & gt; anti-epidemic, rural, Henan Xinyang, grass-roots governance.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 抗疫。
Tracking: Anti-epidemic.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
学者乡村调研｜湖北黄冈农村的防疫保卫战。
Research on epidemic prevention in rural Huanggang, Hubei Province.
雄安新区一位基层干部的疫情防控日记：点滴奔忙，都是使命。
Xiongan new district of a grass-roots cadres epidemic prevention and control diary: every bit rush, are the mission.
回乡记｜一个华北农村的防疫现状。
Remember the epidemic prevention in a rural area of northern China.
评论（12）。
Commentary (12).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
钟南山团队实验室在患者粪便中检出新冠活病毒。
The Zhong Nan Shan team laboratory detected the new coronary virus in patients' feces.
国家卫健委：新增15152例确诊病例，累计59804例。
National Health Commission: 15,152 new cases confirmed, a cumulative total of 59804 cases.
湖北省新增新冠肺炎病例4823例，累计51986例。
There were 4,823 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei province, a total of 51986 cases.
中央领导小组：孝感、黄冈等地要采取和武汉同等隔离救治措施。
Central leading group: filial piety, Huanggang and other places to take the same isolation and treatment measures as Wuhan.
热血出征。
Hot-blooded combat.
日本北方四岛海域发生7.0级地震。
Earthquake of magnitude 7.0 occurred off the northern islands of Japan.
中国生物：康复者血浆制品投入临床，患者体征症状明显好转。
Chinese Biology: The convalescent patients put the plasma products into clinical practice, the symptom of the patient obviously improved.
中疾控近九千新冠患者分析：老年男性风险大，R0为3.77。
Analysis of nearly 9 000 new crown patients with middle disease: elderly men at high risk, R0 was 3.77.
全国新增新冠肺炎确诊病例5090例，累计63851例。
New cases of pneumonia were diagnosed in 5090 cases with a total of 63,851 cases.
编造“上海出现3000例确诊病例”，男子被行拘10日。
The man was detained for 10 days to fabricate "3000 confirmed cases in Shanghai."
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
马上评丨诉诸情感的钟南山和诉诸专业的钟南山，合起来才完整。
Zhong Nan Shan, who immediately comments into emotion, and Zhong Nan Shan, the professional resort, are integrated.
武汉市中心医院主任蔡毅发文：悼念林军老板，我就这么送你了。
Wuhan City Central Hospital Director Cai Yi Fat Message: mourning Lin Jun boss, I gave you so.
夏宝龙兼任国务院港澳事务办公室主任，张晓明改任副主任。
Xia Baolong is also the director of the State Council Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, Zhang Xiaoming as deputy director.
上海首例！一女子躲轿车后备厢入沪被查，目前已被强制隔离。
Shanghai's first case! A woman in a woman's back-up car into Shanghai has been investigated, has been forcibly isolated.
“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭：一线社区工作者口述。
"Seal the city" in Wuhan on the 20th century Pavilion: first-line community workers oral.
湖北首次将临床诊断病例数纳入新增数据，中央指导组专家详解。
Hubei for the first time the number of clinical diagnosis cases into the new data, the central guidance group of experts detailed understanding.
广州市疾控中心人员倒卖口罩被查处：降级并收缴违规所得。
Guangzhou CDC personnel resell masks were investigated and punished: demotion and seizure of illegal proceeds.
应勇任湖北省委书记，王忠林任武汉市委书记。
Ying Yingzheng Hubei Provincial Party Secretary, Wang Zhonglin Wuhan party secretary.
国家监委派调查组赴武汉就涉李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
The State Supervision sent an investigation team to Wuhan to make a comprehensive investigation on the matter concerning Dr. Li Wenliang.
武汉天佑医院防护服严重短缺，呼吁捐赠：否则只能用保鲜膜了。
Wuhan Tianyou Hospital protective clothing serious shortage, appeal for donations: otherwise can only use plastic film.
关注疫情防控 | 跟疫情赛跑，充实组织力量势在必行。
Concern with the epidemic has made it imperative to strengthen it in a race against the epidemic.
武汉市人社局对李文亮医生认定工伤：工亡补助金78万余元。
Wuhan Municipal Social Bureau of Dr. Lee Wenliang identified the injury: work-related benefits of more than $780,000.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
马上评丨让我们一起守住这座城。
The commentary keeps the city together.
湖北省卫健委党组书记主任双双被免职，两职务由王贺胜兼任。
Hubei Wei Jiancheng party secretary group secretary of the two were dismissed, both posts by Wang He Sheng double-hatted.
湖北新增新冠肺炎病例14840例，含临床诊断13332例。
There were 14,840 new cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei, including 13,332 cases of clinical diagnosis.
战“疫”当前失职失责，武汉副市长等3人被中央指导组约谈。
"Plague" the current negligence of responsibility, Wuhan Deputy Mayor and other three people were interviewed by the Central Steering Group.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
我们是启航新健康博士专家团,来自上海各三甲医院,关于新冠肺炎的日常防护,问吧！。
We are a panel of experts from Shanghai Sanjia Hospital on the routine protection of New Crown Pneumonia.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是南京大学历史学院副教授闵凡祥,疾病如何改变人类历史,问我吧!。
I am Min Fangxiang, Associate Professor of History, Nanjing University. Ask me how disease has changed human history.
我致力于抗病毒天然免疫研究,人体是如何与病毒搏斗的,问吧!。
I'm committed to antiviral natural immune research, how the human body is fighting the virus, ask.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
国家监委调查组抵达武汉。
NNSC investigation team arrives in Wuhan.
王贺胜任湖北省委常委，此前担任国家卫健委副主任。
Wang He competent Hubei Provincial Standing Committee, before serving as deputy director of the National Health Committee.
联防联控机制新闻发布会丨国家卫健委向李文亮表示深切哀悼。
The JCMB press conference expresses its deep condolences to Li Wenliang.
中央赴湖北指导组：以战时状态全力抓好源头防控。
Central guidance group to Hubei: to the wartime state of full focus on prevention and control at the source.
钟南山谈抗病毒特效药：这个要小心，伦理审查一定要通过。
Zhong Nan Shan talks about antiviral special medicine: This should be careful, the ethical examination must pass.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
