战“疫”启示：社会治理如何向数据治理转型。
Enlightenment from the "epidemic": how to transform social governance into data governance.
王静。
Wang Jing.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
疫情防控作为重大公共利益，数据的收集、调取、共享的力度空前。
As an important public interest, epidemic prevention and control has an unprecedented degree of data collection, retrieval and sharing.
应当将疫情时期的数据共享做法予以总结、提升，并固定化、制度化文|王静  此次新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，一些医护人员与疾控专家较早就识别出来了，但为什么有关公共决策行动的出台给人感觉还不够快？事实上，及时识别疫情与安排部署相关公共卫生管控措施、调配和保障物资供应、调拨经费不同，后者需要调动更多部门和社会力量，对整个社会生活有更大影响，作出决策的难度陡增。
The data-sharing practices of the epidemic should be summarized, upgraded, and institutionalized. & # 160; Wang Jing's new coronavirus-infected pneumonia was identified earlier by some health-care professionals and disease-control experts. In fact, timely identification and deployment of public health control measures, deployment and security supplies, allocation of funds, the latter need to mobilize more sectors and social forces, more impact on the life of society as a whole, decision-making difficulties.
特别是在要对上千万人口的武汉采取防控措施，乃至对全国大范围采取防控措施，史无前例，无从参考。
Especially in the tens of millions of people in Wuhan to take preventive and control measures, as well as large-scale prevention and control measures, unprecedented, no reference.
从中央政府的决策和部署来看速度不可谓不快，从此后包括湖北省和武汉市在内的各地政府落实来看，也是拼尽全力，竭尽所能。
From the central government's decision-making and deployment is not unpleasant, since then, including Hubei Province and Wuhan City, the implementation of the governments, but also to do their best.
然而，这一场在全国范围打响的没有硝烟的战争，涉及到四万多确诊病例和近三万疑似病例患者以及更多人民群众的生命安危，我们期望公共决策者和整个社会能跑得更快、应对得更好，与时间赛跑救出更多的人。
However, we expect public policymakers and society as a whole to run faster and better and save more people in a race against time, as the smoke-free war rages across the country, involving more than 40,000 confirmed cases and nearly 30,000 suspected cases, as well as many more people.
我们还能更快、更好吗？信息与数据时代：机遇大于挑战20世纪以来，耳熟能详的说法是我们已经进入信息社会、大数据时代，理想状态下，信息和数据在日常生活、企业管理和政府治理中发挥重要作用。
In the 20th century, it has become commonplace to say that we have entered the information society, the big data age, and ideally, information and data play an important role in everyday life, business management, and governance.
但是从此次疫情来看，我们只是一只脚迈进了新的历史阶段，还有一只脚停留在传统社会。
But from this outbreak, we are only one foot into a new stage of history, and one foot in the traditional society.
在传统社会中，信息和数据的交流渠道以纵向为主，从中央到地方的政府系统既是社会管理的主要机构，也是信息交流传递的主要系统。
In the traditional society, the communication channel of information and data is mainly vertical, and the government system from the central to the local level is not only the main institution of social management, but also the main system of information exchange.
这个系统是自成体系的，掌握着大量丰富的信息，但是信息主要在系统内部流动，决策过程本身也是相对封闭的。
The system is self-contained and contains a wealth of information, but the information flows mainly within the system and the decision-making process itself is relatively closed.
所以，近代以来各国政府管理的变革方向之一就是推动政府公开透明，这既是为了保障公民知情权，让社会公众了解政府所作所为，也是为了让社会公众更好的理解政府，更好的推行公共决策的执行。
Therefore, one of the changes in the management of governments in recent times has been to promote transparency in government, both to guarantee citizens' right to know and to let the public know what the government has done, and to enable the public to better understand the government and better implement public decisions.
中国关于政府信息公开、重大决策行政程序等方面的立法和各地的实践，都是为了建立透明政府、阳光政府而努力。
China's legislation on the disclosure of government information, major administrative procedures for decision-making, and local practices are all aimed at establishing a transparent government and a government of sunshine.
疫情的发布和广而告之更是如此，让社会公众尽早了解疫情，即使是不那么准确的信息，也有助于逐步释放和消解社会恐慌，尤其是在移动互联网将绝大多数人都连接在一起的今日，社会公众认知水平大幅提高，不再是前互联网时代的“惊弓之鸟”，以避免恐慌为理由隔绝信息实属不必要。
In particular, the spread of the epidemic and its widespread dissemination will enable the public to understand the epidemic as early as possible, and even less accurate information can help to gradually release and defuse social panic, especially when the mobile Internet connects the vast majority of people, and is no longer the "startle bird" of the pre-Internet age.
从1月20日之后来看，正是由于各地对疫情的公开，使得社会公众的恐慌逐步降低。
From January 20 onwards, it is precisely because of the spread of the epidemic everywhere, the public panic gradually reduced.
但仅仅是政府将已经掌握的信息向社会公众公开透明还不够。
But it is not enough for governments to make the information they already possess transparent to the public.
传统社会中重大决策主要依靠政府的模式，对大城市、超大城市乃至全国一盘棋的管理捉襟见肘，特别是出现像新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎突发公共卫生事件，以纵向信息交流、信息内循环为特征的决策过程即使速度再快，也快不过疫情的爆发速度。
In the traditional society, the major decision-making depends on the mode of government. The management of large cities, mega-cities and even the whole country is overstretched, especially the emergence of a public health emergency like the new coronavirus infection. The decision-making process, which is characterized by vertical information exchange and information circulation, is no faster than the outbreak.
如果不能在速度上取胜，那就必须在信息和数据交流的范围上，乃至公共决策的结构和方式上要做出改变。
If speed is not to prevail, changes will have to be made in the scope of information and data exchange, and also in the structure and manner of public decision-making.
信息泛指人类社会传播的一切内容，数据是用于表示客观事物未经加工的客观素材，大数据则更强调数据规模之海量、类型之多样、流转之快速。
Information generally refers to all the contents of human society, data is used to represent the objective things unprocessed objective materials, big data more emphasis on the size of the data, the variety of types, the rapid flow.
这几个概念既有区别又有联系，对公共决策而言，无论是信息还是数据都是必需的。
These concepts are distinct and related, and both information and data are necessary for public decision-making.
互联网、大数据、人工智能、5G等科学技术的进步将整个社会带入一个新的历史阶段，人员和物资流动空前，信息传播几何级增长，对我们而言，机遇远远大于挑战。
Advances in science and technology, such as the Internet, big data, artificial intelligence and 5G, have brought the whole society into a new historical phase, with unprecedented movement of people and goods and geometrical growth in the dissemination of information, for which the opportunities far outweigh the challenges.
政府和全社会应当有信心也有能力实现数据治理的转型，科学有效的收集、分析、利用各类信息和数据，为立法、决策和执行提供更为准确全面的依据，为持续改善民生、提供公共服务、公正合理使用公权力而再上台阶。
Governments and society as a whole should have the confidence and ability to transform data governance, collect, analyse and utilize information and data in a scientific and effective manner, provide a more accurate and comprehensive basis for legislation, policymaking and implementation, and take the next step towards sustained improvement of people's livelihood, provision of public services and fair and rational use of public power.
社会治理向数据治理转型根本之根本是转变治理思路。
The fundamental of the transformation from social governance to data governance is to transform the governance thought.
社会治理实质上向数据治理转型，必须对信息和数据的属性做中性处理，将各种信息和数据皆纳入公共决策中来。
Social governance is in essence a transition to data governance. It is necessary to treat the attributes of information and data in a neutral way and to integrate all kinds of information and data into public decision-making.
传统公共决策的结构中政府处于中心位置，被多重信息包围，信息也相对庞杂，惯常做法为“内紧外松”。
In the traditional public decision-making structure, the government is in a central position, surrounded by multiple information, information is also relatively complex, the usual practice is "internal tight loose."
而且多重目标也难免无法兼顾，应急管理专家王彩平对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情决策中需要考量的一些难点说得很清楚，包括法律依据、发布主体、路径依赖等等。
Moreover, it is inevitable that multiple targets cannot be met. Emergency management expert Wang Caiping has made clear some difficult points to be considered in the decision-making on the pneumonia of the new coronavirus infection, including the legal basis, the main body of the publication, path dependence, and so on.
中国疾控中心流行病学首席科学家曾光也表示，事情的决策是要多方面考虑的，但在关键问题上要建立一个体系，要更多的采用科学视角。
Zeng Guang, chief epidemiologist at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also said the decision-making process should be multi-faceted, but that a system should be put in place that uses a scientific perspective more often.
科学视角如果采用的不好，其他视角也会没有意义。
If the scientific perspective is not used well, other perspectives will be meaningless.
“当局者迷”和维持稳定的惯性也使得决策系统倾向于大事化小、小事化了，矛盾问题就地消化或者转移。
"Fans of the game" and a steady inertia also tend to make the decision-making system less business-like and less business-like, with contradictory issues digesting or shifting.
而且，公共决策中法定的专家论证、公众参与、风险评估和合法性审查等环节在不同地方政府中的执行力度不一，不同地方的治理水平也有高下之分。
Moreover, mandatory expert validation, public participation, risk assessment and legitimacy reviews in public decision-making are implemented to varying degrees in different local governments, and levels of governance vary from place to place.
这正是十九届四中全会以“国家治理体系和治理能力现代化”为主题的原因。
This is exactly why the nineteenth plenary session of the Fourth Central Committee focused on the theme "Modernization of national governance systems and governance capacity."
如何在全国拉平治理能力水平，缩小不同地区经济社会的差距、治理能力的差距，是未来需要长期努力的目标。
How to level the level of governance ability in China and narrow the gap between different regions in economic and social development and governance is the goal that needs long-term efforts in the future.
特别是在出现突发事件时，对决策的准确性和速度要求极高，不能掌握全面而准确的信息和数据，不从日常决策的惯性和惰性中跳出，就无法科学决策。
In particular, in the event of an emergency, the accuracy and speed of decision-making is extremely demanding, comprehensive and accurate information and data are not available, and no scientific decision can be made without jumping out of inertia and inertia in day-to-day decision-making.
仅仅依靠某个人、某几个人甚至某个部门的意见和看法，来实现科学决策也是不可行的。
Nor is it feasible to rely solely on the views and opinions of a single individual, a few individuals or even a sector to achieve scientific decision-making.
实现科学决策必须有制度性的安排，将整个治理在思路上转变，确保决策系统所支持的信息是全面准确的，也要为社会营造民主、平等、协商的信息交流环境。
Scientific decision-making must be based on institutional arrangements that transform the entire system of governance, ensure that the information supported by the decision-making system is comprehensive and accurate, and create a democratic, equitable and consultative environment for the exchange of information in society.
实现这个目标最重要的就是客观中立对待信息和数据，更多从其功能来考量，甚至可以说是从“功利”的角度来对待信息和数据，不要随意贴标签，要将其作为呈现真实情况的依据来对待，而不是根据个别岗位和个别部门的利益以及好恶来判断其为有害信息或者负面信息。
The most important thing to achieve this goal is to treat information and data objectively and neutrally, considering it more in terms of its function and even in terms of "utility," not as a basis for presenting the real situation, rather than as harmful information or negative information according to the interests and pros and cons of individual posts and departments.
以最早在武汉医疗一线发现病毒异常、在医学朋友圈中讨论和传播的事件为例。
Take the first case of discovering virus abnormality in Wuhan medical field and discussing and spreading it in medical circle of friends.
李文亮医生对圈内朋友发出的警示，被当地警方认定为谣言并予以训诫。
Dr. Lee's warnings to his inner circle friends were dismissed as rumors and reprimanded by the local police.
训诫是否合法，是典型的法律问题，虽然“训诫”在字面上不属于《行政处罚法》所规定的行政处罚种类，但是因为涉及到对行政相对人行为违法性的认定，对公民的权益必然产生影响，是行政诉讼和行政复议等法律救济制度所要覆盖的范围。
The legality of admonition is a typical legal issue. Although the "admonition" does not belong to the category of administrative penalty prescribed by the Administrative Penalty Law, it inevitably affects the rights and interests of citizens because it involves the determination of illegality of the administrative counterpart's actions, which is the scope to be covered by the legal remedies system such as administrative litigation and administrative reconsideration.
事后来看，警方在采取这一措施或者行为时应当按照《行政诉讼法》《行政复议法》和《国务院全面推进依法行政实施纲要》的要求，对违法事实、法律依据调查清楚，依法履行正当法律程序，做到以事实为依据、以法律为准绳。
In hindsight, the police should, in accordance with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Law, the Law on Administrative Review and the State Council's Outline for the Comprehensive Implementation of Administration according to Law, investigate the facts and legal basis of violations of the law, and follow due process of law according to law.
此案更为深层次的问题是在公共决策所依据的信息和数据系统里，这一类信息不仅没有被得到重视，也没有被作为客观情况来对待，相反，是被作为错误信息和违法行为来处理的。
The deeper problem in this case is that, in the information and data systems on which public decision-making is based, this type of information is not only not taken seriously, but is not treated as an objective situation, but rather treated as misinformation and infractions.
其根源在于，对信息和数据按照是否官方、是否系统内外来区分，正确与否也是按照身份来判断，而不是按照信息本身的真实性来处理。
It is rooted in the fact that information and data are classified according to whether they are official, whether they are inside or outside the system and whether they are correct or not are judged by status rather than by the authenticity of the information itself.
一线医生所反映和讨论的情况，不在现有体系内的信息上报途径之内，没有得到疾控部门和卫建委的官方认定，披露这一信息就成为了违法行为。
What the front-line doctors have reported and discussed is outside the information reporting channels within the existing system and has not been officially recognized by the CDC and the NSAC, and disclosure of this information is an offence.
其实，对于传染病的专业问题，其他部门包括警方并无专业知识，无从识别其真伪，在处理时就出现了简单机械对待，没有仔细甄别“违法者”的身份，没有了解所发布信息的全面情况就做出判断。
In fact, other departments, including the police, do not have the expertise to recognize the authenticity of infectious diseases, and simple mechanical treatment occurs when dealing with them, without scrutinizing the identity of the "delinquent" and making judgements without knowing the full extent of the information released.
而一旦警方介入，各种信息和数据的流动会出现偏差，能够发现真相的人会因为寒蝉效应而止步。
Once the police step in, the flow of information and data will deviate, and those who can find the truth will stop because of the chilling effect.
对公共决策者而言，训诫乃至惩罚那些无恶意提供信息的人不仅是对一些人、一个群体的损害，更是掩盖了整个决策所依据的真实情况，为日后可能做出错误决策埋下隐患。
For public policymakers, reprimanding, or even punishing, those who provide information without malice not only harms some people and a group, but also conceals the true facts on which the entire decision is based, and creates the potential for wrong decisions to be made later.
此外，疫情爆发后大量真假难辨的信息满天飞，有些是对本地疫情的扩大化的言论，有的是对日常生活细节的提醒，有的是对治疗方案或者药物的宣传等等。
Moreover, after the outbreak, there was a deluge of hard-to-distinguish information, ranging from rhetoric about the spread of local epidemics to reminders of the details of everyday life, to the promotion of treatment programmes or drugs.
除了极少部分恶意造谣甚至诈骗的信息，公安部门依法应当予以介入外，很多信息其实也是对疫情社会面的观察窗口，对公共决策有重要参考价值。
In addition to a very small portion of malicious rumor and even fraud information, the public security departments should intervene in accordance with the law, a lot of information is actually the social aspects of the epidemic observation window, for public decision-making has an important reference value.
这些信息即便是谣言，可以通过专家和专业团体释疑辟谣等方式来解决，而不应再做信息封锁，这也是一地社会治理能力的体现。
Such information, even if it is rumour, can be addressed by experts and professional groups, for example, by dismissing disinformation, rather than by blocking information, which is also a reflection of the capacity for social governance in one place.
如果政府公开的信息和数据范围足够广阔，各地政府及时准确的科学决策，让公众尽早了解疫情、预防疫情、治疗疫情，或许今天疫情还可以控制得更好。
If the scope of information and data released by the government is wide enough, and governments around the world make timely and accurate scientific decisions, so that the public can understand the epidemic as early as possible, prevent the epidemic and cure it.
在疫情发展过程中，正是政府的不隐瞒、不谎报让大家看得见、看得懂，让大家及时做好自我防护，不但使政府减轻压力，更使公众心中产生危机意识学会自我保护，给公众充足的安全感。
In the course of the epidemic, it is the Government's non-concealment and untruthful reporting that enables people to see and understand each other. This will not only relieve the pressure on the Government, but will also create a sense of crisis in the public mind and give the public a sense of security.
政府数据共享应提上日程疫情爆发后，各地所采取的防控措施日益严格，通过网格化管理向基层投入大量人力物力，将大多数人的活动范围控制在最小限度内，对已经有疫情出现的小区乃至社区采取禁止出入制度。
After the outbreak of the outbreak of government data sharing, the prevention and control measures adopted by various localities have become more and more strict. Through grid management, they have invested a great deal of manpower and material resources at the grass-roots level, kept the scope of most people's activities to a minimum and adopted a no-access system for small areas and even communities where outbreaks have occurred.
从目前的疫情看，这些防控措施正在发挥作用。
These control measures are working in the light of the current epidemic.
而这些措施大多还停留在前互联网时代，也就是通过最为原始的入门到户、追踪到人、登记在册、上门观察等拉网式全覆盖大排查来摸清人口底数、追踪人员流动轨迹，通过在高速公路收费站设置疫情监测和劝返点来阻断人员流动。
Most of these measures are still in the pre-Internet era, that is, through the most rudimentary door-to-door, tracing, registration, door-to-door inspection to map the population base, track the movement of people, and block the flow of people by setting up disease surveillance and referral points at toll gates.
基层工作人员从春节期间至今几乎就没有休息，所要填报的各类表格和提交的各种方案让他们恨不得变成“千手观音”，在一些医疗资源有限、人手紧缺的地区，甚至不得已采取了粗暴封路、一刀切拒绝通行的极端做法。
Grass-roots workers have barely rested since the Spring Festival, filling out forms and submitting programs that make them eager to become "watchdogs," forced to resort to the extreme of rough road closures and denial of access in areas where medical resources are limited and staff are scarce.
一场疫情不仅将普通人的日常工作生活按下暂停键，而且也将政府治理方法倒退回到人防人的原始做法。
An epidemic not only holds the key to ordinary people's daily working life in abeyance, but also reverses the way government is governed back to its original civil-defense approach.
这其中的原因很多，其中一个重要原因是政府数据共享的范围和程度还远远不够。
There are many reasons for this, not least because the scope and extent of government data sharing is far from adequate.
人口基础数据特别是包含着居民居住地址、身份信息等重要内容的数据由公安部门管理；交通数据分属铁路、民航、公路、公交、出租车、网约车的不同企业和交通运输部门内不同机构管理；大健康和医疗数据分属卫健委、医保、疾控等部门管理，餐饮、商业等数据属市场监管、商业等部门管理；各种物资生产的相关数据属发改委、工信等部门管理等等。
The basic population data, especially those containing important contents such as residential address and identity information, are managed by the public security department.Traffic data are managed by different enterprises in the railway, civil aviation, public transportation, taxi and network administration departments, and catering and commercial data are managed by market supervision and commerce departments.
政府各部门把持数据各自为营，信息孤岛难以撼动，日常管理中就已存在诸多问题，一窗通办、一网通办难以实现背后的原因就是数据壁垒在作祟。
Government departments control the data into battalions, information islands are difficult to shake up, day-to-day management there are many problems, one-window, a network to do difficult to do behind the reason is the data barriers.
疫情紧急之下，数据壁垒就更成为掣肘。
Data barriers are further constrained by the urgency of the epidemic.
政府数据共享的重要性被一而再、再而三讨论和强调，政府数据共享的可行性也经过反复论证。
The importance of government data sharing has been repeatedly discussed and emphasized, and the feasibility of government data sharing has been repeatedly demonstrated.
2015年国务院发布《促进大数据发展行动纲要》，2016年国务院颁布《政务信息资源共享管理暂行办法》，贵州、浙江、上海、重庆、南京等地方政府也陆续有相关文件出台。
In 2015, the State Council issued the Action Program for Big Data Development, and in 2016, the State Council promulgated the Provisional Measures for the Administration of Information Resources Sharing, and relevant documents have been issued by the local governments of Guizhou, Zhejiang, Shanghai, Chongqing and Nanjing.
但是，实践中政府数据共享的局面尚未实现全面突破。
However, in practice, the government data sharing situation has not achieved a comprehensive breakthrough.
在很多地方，政府数据共享还停留在“说起来重要”的阶段，仅仅是无关紧要的部分数据的共享，数据共享的覆盖面不仅严重不足，而且共享的质量不过关，真正实现数据共享之后的应用也是有限的。
In many places, government data-sharing is still at the "talking-it-or-leave-it" stage, with only a fraction of the data being shared, the coverage of data-sharing not only grossly inadequate, but also the quality of sharing, and the application of true data-sharing limited.
政府数据共享迟缓也使得政府治理缺乏整体性和全局性，实践中为实现某一目标而损害全局的现象屡见不鲜。
Slow sharing of government data also leads to a lack of holistic and holistic governance, and it is not uncommon in practice to compromise the overall picture in order to achieve a certain goal.
惟有政府数据共享才能使政府整体运作更加和谐统一，才能通过数据融通运用为科学决策提供更多依据，切实提高政府社会治理能力和公共服务水平。
Only by sharing government data can the whole government function more harmoniously and harmoniously, can it provide more basis for scientific decision-making through data fusion, and effectively improve the social governance ability and public service level of the government.
回溯疫情发生过程中的两个时间节点：1月1日，“平安武汉”发布微博称8名散布谣言者被依法处理，同日，华南海鲜批发市场关停，国家卫健委成立疫情领导小组；1月3日，警方对散布谣言的医护人员予以训诫，而同日中国开始向美国通报疫情信息和防控措施、向世卫组织和周边国家通报疫情。
On January 1, a Weibo blog published by Ping An Wuhan said that eight people who spread rumors were handled according to law. On the same day, the South China Wholesale Seafood Market was closed and the National Health Commission set up an epidemic leadership team.
如果更大程度上实现政府数据共享，相信任何对疫情有清楚认知的人都不会故意隐瞒情况、拖延决策，警方也不会在其他部门已经在着手防疫防控准备的同时采取训诫等措施。
If there is greater sharing of government data, it is believed that anyone with a clear knowledge of the epidemic will not deliberately conceal the situation, delay decision-making, or take disciplinary measures while others are already preparing for prevention and control.
无论是在疫情发生的前期阶段，还是在疫情防控的整个过程中，政府数据共享的作用都是基础而关键的。
Whether in the early stage of the outbreak or in the whole process of epidemic prevention and control, the role of government data sharing is fundamental and crucial.
而且，随着疫情发展战线拉长，解决经济放缓、社会停滞问题就不得不提上日程，最大程度减少人员流动、严格预防通过交通工具传播、减少公众聚集活动、减少春节期间集体聚餐活动、深入开展爱国卫生运动等阻断传播途径等非常做法不可能长期采取，各地肺炎疫情联防联控机制包括领导小组、指挥部的组织架构不可能成为常设机构。
Moreover, with the spread of the epidemic on a longer-term basis, addressing the economic slowdown and social stagnation will have to be on the agenda to minimize the movement of people, strictly prevent mass gatherings, reduce the number of mass meals during the Spring Festival, deepen the patriotic public health campaign and other means of transmission.
既要打赢防疫这场战，又要制定复工时间表和具体安排部署，对不同地区、不同行业和人员采取的各种防控措施，这些措施如何更为精确合理，对治理能力的要求更高，政府数据共享也更为急迫。
We should not only win the battle against epidemic prevention, but also work out a timetable for the resumption of work and work out the specific arrangements for deployment.
在国务院和各级政府的强力组织下，疫情防控作为重大公共利益，数据的收集、调取、共享的力度空前。
Under the strong organization of the State Council and governments at all levels, epidemic prevention and control as a major public interest, data collection, retrieval and sharing strength unprecedented.
应当将疫情时期的数据共享做法予以总结、提升，并固定化、制度化，为政府数据治理的转型奠定基础。
Data-sharing practices during the epidemic period should be summarized, upgraded, institutionalized and laid the foundation for the transformation of government data governance.
一旦错过这个时机，就难以再形成共识和合力。
Once this opportunity is missed, it is difficult to forge consensus and synergy.
政府与社会共治，提升数据的应用从疫情发布以来，各级政府、社会各界都积极参与到疫情防控中来。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, governments at all levels and all sectors of society have taken an active part in the prevention and control of the epidemic.
一是在对疫情预警方面，流动人口数据和地图数据等，对各地区部署防控措施、调配物资等有重要参考，还有利用手机信令，根据移动行为特征来识别高危人群，监测人群从高风险地区向外迁徙的情况并对未来的迁徙行为进行预测。
First, mobile population data and map data are important references for the deployment of prevention and control measures and the deployment of materials in various regions. Mobile signalling is also used to identify high-risk populations based on mobile behaviour characteristics, to monitor the out-migration of populations from high-risk areas and to predict future migration behaviour.
二是在疫情跟踪方面，多个新冠肺炎同乘信息查询应用上线，可查询与新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊患者同行的火车、飞机和地铁的信息，并可订阅提醒业务，在日后出现确诊病例后收到提醒信息，实现早隔离、早就医的目的。
Second, in the case of epidemic tracking, multiple new coronavirus-infected patients can access information on trains, planes and subways travelling with patients diagnosed with pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus. They can also subscribe to alert service and receive alert messages after the confirmed cases occur in the future, so as to achieve early isolation and early treatment.
政府工作人员和公众也已经主动的、具有创造性的开发出一些应用和小程序的使用场景，比如在列车上给本车厢乘客建微信群，便于日后追踪各自健康状况并预警，为小区居民发放APP验证码方便进出和登记，通过小程序在微信中打卡实现对学校师生、小区居民日常健康状况的追踪等。
Government workers and the public have also proactively and creatively developed scenarios for the use of applications and small programs, such as building micro-groups of passengers on trains to track their health and provide early warning, issuing APP identification codes to residents to facilitate entry, exit and registration, and using micro-programs to card and track the daily health status of school students and residents.
三是在疫情监测方面，多家互联网企业的人工智能技术比如人脸识别、红外温度测试在地铁、铁路和民航等公共场所的使用。
The third is the use of artificial intelligence technologies such as face recognition and infrared temperature testing in public places such as subway, railway and civil aviation in many Internet companies.
这些技术的应用既能准确追踪个体行动轨迹，又能减少人员聚集和接触。
The application of these techniques can both accurately track individual trajectories and reduce human agglomeration and contact.
另外，人工智能和大数据技术在病毒群体检测、医疗防护、智能诊断、疫情分析与发布等有关抗击疫情等等方面发挥积极作用。
In addition, artificial intelligence and big data technology in virus community detection, medical protection, intelligent diagnosis, disease analysis and dissemination, and so on to play an active role in fighting the epidemic.
四是在对疫情汇总和宣传方面，丁香园这一汇集最多医生、医学专业人士和学生的应用和公众号最早开始发布全国疫情地图和统计数据，并以生动清晰的可视化方式予以呈现，随着各类信息和谣言增多，又开辟谣言排行榜、谣言征集、疫情订阅、孕妈答疑等板块。
Fourth, in terms of summarizing and publicizing the epidemic, the Lilac Garden, the application and public code that brings together the largest number of doctors, medical professionals and students, was the first to publish national epidemic maps and statistics and present them in a vivid and visible manner.
除了通过主流媒体和宣传口径、乡村街道张贴了很多接地气的标语外，微信微博、抖音快手等新兴媒体实际上也发挥了极其重要的社会宣传和动员效果，以小成本、快速度、多途径将新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎有关的各种知识传递到每一个手机终端，对配合政府疫情防控措施起到了前所未有的积极作用。
In addition to the many earthed slogans posted in the mainstream media and on the streets of rural areas, new media such as microblogging and chatter have actually played an extremely important role in social publicity and mobilization to bring knowledge of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia to every mobile phone terminal at a low cost, fast and multi-channel rate, thus playing an unprecedented positive role in coordinating the Government's response to the epidemic.
我们从诸多科技应用中看到政府和社会共治的趋势，历史不会倒退，共治已经成为共识，合作将更加密切、更加深入。
We have seen from many applications of science and technology the tendency of government and society to coexist. History will not regress, and co-governance has become a consensus.
2月4日，工信部发出《充分发挥人工智能赋能效用协力抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情倡议书》，倡议进一步发挥人工智能赋能效用，组织科研和生产力量，把加快有效支撑疫情防控的相关产品攻关和应用作为优先工作。
On February 4, the Ministry of Industry and Communications issued the "Initiative to Give Full Play to the Function of Artificial Intelligence in Combining Pneumonia Infection with New Coronavirus Infection," the Ministry of Industry and Communications launched the "Initiative to Give Full Play to the Ability of Artificial Intelligence to Combat New Coronavirus Infections.
由中关村管委会发布的“中关村首批抗击疫情的新技术新产品新服务清单”，首批清单共包含86家中关村企业的138项新技术新产品新服务，包含医药与器械类、大数据云计算服务疫情防护、医院建设保障、互联网提升生活服务四大类企业和相关产品服务，涉及病毒检测、疫苗研发、临床治疗、医疗防护、智能诊断、疫情分析与发布等有关抗击疫情的多个方面。
The first batch contains 138 new technologies and products and services of 86 Zhongguancun enterprises, including medicine and apparatus, epidemic prevention of large data cloud computing services, hospital construction guarantee, Internet enhancement of living services, and related products and services, including virus detection, vaccine development, clinical treatment, medical protection, intelligent diagnosis, epidemic analysis and dissemination.
2月6日，国家卫健委也发布《关于加强信息化支撑新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的通知》，要求各地充分发挥信息化在辅助疫情研判、创新诊疗模式、提升服务效率等方面的支撑作用。
On February 6, the National Fitness and Health Commission also issued the Notice on Strengthening the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia Supported by Information Technology for New Coronavirus Infection, which requires all localities to give full play to the supporting role of information technology in assisting the investigation and assessment of the epidemic, innovating the mode of diagnosis and treatment, and improving the efficiency of service delivery.
正因为政府信息公开和数据开放，使得很多科研机构、高新企业利用政府的信息和数据展开疫情分析、预测和监测，能够为共同打赢防疫之战贡献力量，但是公开和开放的水平和程度还有待提高。
Because of the openness of government information and data, many scientific research institutions and high-tech enterprises can use government information and data to carry out epidemic analysis, prediction and monitoring.
比如，腾讯等互联网企业和应用开发者开发应用，方便查询新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病所在小区和曾活动场所等，帮助普通民众更好了解疫情发展情况，但是地方卫健委官方发布数据覆盖了20多个省份，而湖北和浙江的相关数据尚未开放。
For example, Tencent and other Internet companies and application developers have developed applications to help the general public better understand the development of the epidemic, such as the new coronavirus infection in the area where the diagnosis of pneumonia and activities, but local health committee official data covering more than 20 provinces, Hubei and Zhejiang data has not yet been opened.
从政府角度来看，中国政府已经将数据开放提升到“国家战略”地位，要建立各级政府数据开放平台，应当加快研究数据开放的规则，制定更为详细具有操作性的方案，开放更多政府数据，推动社会和企业更多使用政府数据开发更多应用。
From the government's perspective, the Chinese government has elevated data access to the status of a "national strategy." To establish open platforms for government data at all levels, it should speed up research into data opening rules, formulate more detailed and operational programs, open more government data, and promote greater use of government data by society and businesses to develop more applications.
民生领域还有很多痛点，人民群众对美好生活向往的满足，有待各方的共同努力，政府更要敞开大门，敞开胸怀，探讨更多与社会、与企业合作共治的路径和办法。
The people's aspiration for a better life requires the concerted efforts of all concerned. The government should open its doors and mind and explore more ways and means of working with society and businesses.
（作者为中央党校（国家行政学院）政法部副教授，编辑：鲁伟）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
(The writer is an associate professor in the Department of Political Science and Law at the Central Party School (National School of Administration).
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
战“疫”启示：社会治理如何向数据治理转型。
Enlightenment from the "epidemic": how to transform social governance into data governance.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "战“疫”启示：社会治理如何向数据治理转型";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "疫情防控作为重大公共利益，数据的收集、调取、共享的力度空前。
var msg _ desc = & quot; As a major public interest, data collection, retrieval, and sharing are unprecedented.
应当将疫情时期的数据共享做法予以总结、提升，并固定化、制度化";。
Data-sharing practices during the epidemic should be summarized, scaled up, and institutionalized, institutionalized, and;;.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
