住进方舱医院72小时后，情况明显好转。
The situation improved markedly 72 hours after admission to the cabin hospital.
刘以秦。
Liu Yiqin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
武汉紧急改造启用的多个临时性“方舱医院”，承担了此次疫情中数量最大的隔离任务。
Wuhan emergency renovation of the opening of a number of temporary "square cabin hospitals," the largest number of this outbreak of isolation.
虽然时间紧任务重，方舱医院的内部运行已经从最初的忙乱走向有序文|《财经》记者刘以秦编辑|谢丽容2月6日凌晨3点，在武汉一家酒店临时隔离的汤非被叫醒。
Despite the time constraints, the hospital's internal operations have moved from initial hustle and bustle to include a preface & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
工作人员通知他，需要立刻收拾行李，转去新改造启用的临时性“方舱医院”进行隔离。
The staff informed him of the need to pack immediately and to move to the newly converted temporary "square cabin hospital" for isolation.
2月4日，他在武汉一家医院拍了肺部CT，医生判断他有可能感染了新冠肺炎，于是在社区的安排下进入酒店隔离。
On February 4, he took a lung CT scan at a Wuhan hospital. The doctor decided he might have contracted pneumonia and went into the hotel to be quarantined.
汤非上了一辆30人的公交车，连夜到达位于武昌区最核心位置、洪山广场一侧的洪山体育馆，这里是武汉紧急改造启用的多个临时性方舱医院之一，广场另一边就是湖北省人民政府所在地。
Tang Fei got on a 30-person bus and arrived overnight at the Hongshan Stadium on the side of Hongshan Square, the most central part of Wuchang District.
他们在车上等了几个小时，终于进了体育馆。
They waited in the car for hours before they finally got into the gym.
2月3日，武汉开始改造启用临时性的方舱医院，方舱医院与野战机动医院类似，由活动的“模块房子”建成，包括医疗方舱、技术保障方舱、病房单元、生活保障单元及运力等部分组成。
On February 3, Wuhan began the renovation of the temporary cabin hospital, similar to the field mobile hospital, built by the mobile "modular house," including the medical module, technical support module, ward unit, life support unit and transportation capacity.
截止目前，武汉共改造13座方舱医院，开始收治病人的有3座，分别是武汉客厅、武汉会展中心以及洪山体育馆，首批开放3600张床位，后续共计4250张床位。
So far, Wuhan has renovated 13 cabin hospitals, and has admitted three patients: Wuhan living room, Wuhan Convention and Exhibition Center and Hongshan Stadium. The first batch of 3,600 beds was opened, followed by 4,250 beds.
截止2月10日下午2点，武汉市新冠肺炎确诊人数共计16902人。
As of 2: 00 pm on Feb. 10, the total number of confirmed cases of Xinguan Pneumonia in Wuhan was 16902.
一定程度上来说，汤非是幸运的。
To a certain extent, Tang Fei was lucky.
进入方舱医院仅半个小时，还没来得及感受这座大型的临时“避难所”，他就收到通知，可以去医院做核酸检测了。
Just half an hour into the cabin hospital, before he could feel the huge, makeshift "sanctuary," he was told to go to the hospital for a nucleic acid test.
他急忙向医生申请出去做核酸检测，医生同意后，他离开方舱医院，但做完检测，再回到方舱医院时，门口的安保人员不让他进去，称需要有社区证明才可以。
He hastened to apply to the doctor for a nucleic acid test and, with the doctor's consent, left the hospital, but when he had finished the tests and returned to the cabin hospital, the security personnel at the entrance refused to let him in, stating that community certificates were required.
2月6日当天武汉下了雨，汤非在雨里等了2个多小时，终于通过检查，再次进了方舱医院。
February 6, Wuhan under the rain, Tang Fei in the rain for more than two hours, finally passed inspection, entered the cabin hospital again.
他告诉《财经》记者，里面气温较低，有的床位还没有通电，床上有电热毯用于保暖，医护人员很少。
He told Caijing that the temperature was low, some beds were not electrified, there were electric blankets on the bed to keep warm and there were few paramedics.
2月5日起，全国20家医院的医疗队赶赴武汉，支援方舱医院。
February 5, 20 hospitals across the country's medical team rushed to Wuhan, to support the cabin hospital.
据悉，仅洪山体育馆内，就入驻了13家医院的支援医疗队。
It is reported that the Hongshan Stadium alone, 13 hospitals in the support of the medical team.
上海华山医院副院长马昕是华山医院救援队的领队，华山医院在此次疫情中，共派出四支医疗队援助武汉，其中一支医疗队负责援助方舱。
The vice-president of Shanghai Huashan Hospital Ma Xin was the leader of the rescue team of Huashan Hospital.
马昕告诉《财经》记者，临时性的方舱医院条件肯定不如正规医院好，也不如家里舒服，但这是应急情况下最有效的方式，“可以让病人都有医护人员的照看，避免更大范围的感染，一旦出现病情变化，也可以及时送去医院。
Ma told Caijing that temporary cabin hospitals are certainly not as good as regular hospitals or comfortable at home, but this is the most effective method in emergency situations, "so that patients can be looked after by medical staff, avoid a wider range of infections, and can be sent to the hospital in time."
”2月8日是元宵节，汤非的早饭是统一发放的元宵；2月9日，进入方舱已经72小时，他打了盆热水给自己洗了头发，“舒服多了”，他视线范围内至少有20名医护人员，会随时过来查床，发药，他松了一口气，说，“一切都在变好。
The Lantern Festival falls on February 8, and Tangfei's breakfast is a one-night Lantern Festival. On February 9, 72 hours after entering the cabin, he washed his hair "much more comfortably" with a basin of hot water.
”有困难，也在变好2月6日，武昌区一社区确诊了6名新冠病毒肺炎患者。
Difficult, also getting better February 6, a community in Wuchang district confirmed six cases of Newcastle virus pneumonia.
经社区工作人员沟通后，仅有2名愿意去方舱医院，剩下4名患者听说方舱医院条件不好，不想去，如果不能住院就选择自行在家隔离。
After communication by community workers, only two patients were willing to go to the Fang Causeway Hospital, while the remaining four patients were told that the Fang Hospital was in poor condition and did not want to go. If they could not be hospitalized, they chose to stay at home.
“我们不能强制他们去，只能再继续劝说。
"We can't force them to go, we can only continue persuasion.
”该社区工作人员告诉《财经》记者。
The community worker told Caijing.
方舱医院的条件究竟如何，众说纷纭。
Opinions vary as to the conditions of the cabin hospital.
2月6日，一位洪山体育馆工作人员介绍说，当时已经开始收治病人，但一些工作人员缺少防护装备，所以不能及时进去做各种基础设施改造，包括部分区域水电的铺设，新增窗户通风等。
On 6 February, a staff member at the Hongshan Stadium explained that medical treatment had already begun, but that some staff lacked protective equipment and were therefore unable to enter in time for various infrastructure improvements, including the installation of electricity and water in some areas and the ventilation of additional windows.
随着防护装备到齐，所有的准备工作陆续到位。
With the full complement of protective equipment, all preparations are being made.
一位方舱医院的安保负责人告诉《财经》记者，不可能出现缺物资的情况，有关方面已经给他们派发了足够的物资。
A security chief at the cabin hospital told Caijing that there could be no shortage of supplies and that sufficient supplies had been distributed to them.
华山医院副院长马昕告诉《财经》记者，前期方舱颖院有的物资确实紧张，当时其他医院也面临这个问题，“但目前已经不存在有工作人员因没有防护装备而不能正常工作的情况。
Ma Xin, vice-dean of Huashan Hospital, told Caijing that some materials in the forecastle courtyard were indeed tight, while other hospitals faced this problem at the time. "But there are no longer any cases where staff members are unable to work normally because they do not have protective equipment.
”3天前，汤非刚进入方舱时，第一感受是现场有些混乱。
When he first entered the cabin three days ago, his first feeling was that there was some confusion.
他很难及时找到医护人员反应自己的情况，物资发放也不及时，没有清晰的流程。
It was difficult for him to find medical staff to react to his situation in a timely manner, and there was no clear process for the distribution of materials.
但三天之后，这些情况在明显好转，之前没有通电的床位都加装了插线板，医护人员数量增加，也有了明确的责任分区。
Three days later, however, there was a marked improvement, with plug-ins in previously unelectrified beds, an increase in the number of medical staff and a clear division of responsibilities.
他还注意到一些可以改进的问题，包括男女混住、不能洗澡、晚上睡觉不熄灯等。
He also noted a number of issues that could be improved, including mixing of men and women, not being able to bathe and not having their lights turned off at night.
不过，随着一切往秩序化方向发展，病人情绪开始变得稳定，看不到有过激的行为。
However, as everything moves in the right direction, the patient's mood starts to stabilize and he doesn't see excessive behavior.
马昕表示，方舱医院是由大型体育馆在短时间内改造而成，医疗流程需要不断改进。
Ma Xin said that Fang Cai Hospital is a large gymnasium in a short time from the transformation, medical procedures need to be constantly improved.
“例如刚开始收治病人的时候，没有划分好污染区、潜在污染区和清洁区，但运转之后，这些逐步落实了。
"For example, at the beginning of treatment, there was no division of contaminated areas, potential contamination areas and clean-up areas.
”病患和家属关注的另一个问题是，什么情况下可以离开方舱医院？马昕表示，方舱的病人如果发现有症状变严重的，医护人员会立刻将病人转移到医疗条件更好的医院去。
Another issue of concern to patients and their families was the circumstances under which they could leave the Fangcao Hospital. Ma Xin said that if patients in the cabins found symptoms getting worse, they would immediately transfer patients to hospitals with better medical conditions.
医护人员会重点关注体温、症状、血氧饱和度以及是否有并发症问题，“例如血氧饱和度到93以下，就要考虑是否转院。
Health professionals will focus on body temperature, symptoms, blood oxygen saturation and complications, such as hypoxic saturation below 93, and consider whether to transfer to hospital.
”如果病人体温保持在正常水平，持续5-6天，且在24小时内两次核酸检测均为阴性，可以考虑回家继续隔离观察。
If the patient's body temperature remains at normal levels for five to six days, and both nucleic acid tests are negative within 24 hours, the patient may consider going home to continue the isolation observation.
“但这些都不是硬性指标，需要医护人员现场综合判断。
"But these are not hard targets and need to be judged on the spot by medical staff.
”马昕说。
"said MBA MBA.
方舱医院的重担2月2日，武汉已经开启了分级诊疗体系，确诊的重症病人陆续进入火神山、雷神山和一线定点医院。
On February 2, Wuhan has opened a graded system of diagnosis and treatment, confirmed patients have entered the mountain of fire, Lei Shenshan and the first-line designated hospital.
随着更多确诊轻症病人进入方舱医院，与确诊病人密切接触的人员进入酒店隔离。
As more patients with mild cases are admitted to the cabin hospital, people in close contact with the confirmed patients are quarantined.
2月5日，武汉市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控指挥部召开会议，要求各区在最晚2月7日，完成武汉市所有疑似病例的核酸检测，并收治所有确诊病人。
February 5, Wuhan city of the new coronavirus infection of the pneumonia command meeting, the request that all districts by February 7, Wuhan, all suspected cases of nucleic acid testing, and admitted all confirmed patients.
2月7日，武汉市常务副市长胡亚波表示，武汉市28家定点医院的床位扩充至8895张，再加上已经投入使用的雷神山1600张病床，将全部用于收治重症和危重症患者。
On February 7, Wuhan Deputy Mayor Hu Yapo said the 28 designated hospitals in Wuhan had expanded to 8,895 beds, adding to the 1,600 beds already in use in the city of Raytheon, which will be used to treat critically ill and critically ill patients.
2月7日，钟南山院士预测，此次疫情的拐点还未到来，未来一段时间确诊病例人数还将持续上涨。
On February 7, Zhong Nan Shan academician predicted that the inflection point of the epidemic has not yet arrived, and the number of confirmed cases will continue to rise in the coming period.
2月8日，湖北省委书记、省新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部指挥长蒋超良在武汉市督导疫情防控工作时强调，精准掌握全市确诊患者数、疑似患者数、发热门诊有症状患者数、密切接触人员中有症状患者数，以及各医院、隔离点、方舱可用床位数、已用床位数、剩余床位数等，确保动态准确；做实做细“四类人员”集中收治和隔离工作；继续征集宾馆、学校等场所，改造成集中隔离点，增加床位供给。
On Feb. 8, 2007, the Secretary of the Hubei Provincial Party Committee and Commander of the Provincial Headquarters for the Prevention and Control of Nosocomial Pneumonia stressed that accurate control of the number of confirmed patients, suspected patients, symptomatic patients in fever clinics, the number of symptomatic patients in close contact, hospitals, quarantined persons, remaining beds, etc.
除方舱外，武汉市还在将省委党校新校区以及武汉市属4所高校改造成定点医疗点，将增加共5400个床位，用于收治已经确诊的轻症患者。
Besides the square cabins, Wuhan is transforming the new campus of the provincial Party School and four colleges and universities belonging to Wuhan City into designated medical points, which will increase the number of beds by 5,400 beds for patients with confirmed mild cases.
武汉的医疗体系不仅要面对不断涌来的新冠肺炎病人，还需要考虑有其他医疗需求的人群，例如孕妇、癌症病人等。
Wuhan medical system not only has to face the influx of patients with pneumonia, but also need to consider other medical needs, such as pregnant women, cancer patients, etc.
将确诊的轻症病人集中在方舱隔离救治，可以缓解一线医院的压力，有余力救助更多有医疗需求的人群，大部分轻症病人只需要按时服药，静养休息即可。
The centralization of the diagnosed light cases in the cutoff can relieve the pressure on first-line hospitals and spare no effort to help more people with medical needs. Most light patients need only take regular medication and rest.
马昕还提到，病人的心理也需要关注，“如果一个轻症病人住院，他周围住的都是重症患者，他会有很大的心理压力；如果病人在家里隔离，会担心是否感染家人，也会造成一定的心理压力。
Maxin also mentioned that patients' psychology also needs attention, "if a light patient is hospitalized, he is surrounded by patients with severe illnesses, and he will have great psychological pressure; if the patient is isolated at home, he will worry about infecting his family."
”此前面临“住院难”的几位肺炎患者告诉《财经》记者，他们已经分别接到社区通知，住进了方舱医院，他们现在就盼望着可以早点痊愈回家。
Several pneumonia sufferers who had previously faced "hospitalization" told Caijing they had been notified by their communities to stay in the cabin hospital and were now looking forward to an early recovery.
距离汤非查出可能感染新冠肺炎，已经过去一个星期。
It has been a week since Tangfei was able to detect a case of possible new crown pneumonia.
他的症状较轻，连日来没有加重的趋势。
His symptoms are mild and there has been no tendency for him to increase for days.
由于第一次核酸检测是阴性，他希望可以尽快再做一次核酸检测，或许可以等来回家的好消息。
Since the first nucleic acid test was negative, he hoped to be able to do another nucleic acid test as soon as possible, perhaps waiting for the good news to come home.
（本刊记者陈亮亦有贡献）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Photo: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This is an original article for Caijing Magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
住进方舱医院72小时后，情况明显好转。
The situation improved markedly 72 hours after admission to the cabin hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "住进方舱医院72小时后，情况明显好转";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; 72 hours after admission.
var msg_desc = "武汉紧急改造启用的多个临时性“方舱医院”，承担了此次疫情中数量最大的隔离任务。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan's emergency rehabilitation and opening of several temporary "cabin hospitals" carried out the largest number of quarantine tasks in the epidemic.
虽然时间紧任务重，方舱医院的内部运行已经从最初的忙乱走向有序";。
Despite the time constraints, the interior of Fang's hospital has moved from initial bustle to orderly and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
