钟南山等37位作者发文：病毒潜伏期最长24天，初诊一半多不发烧。
The virus incubates for up to 24 days and more than half of the first visits do not have a fever.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
_基层防控中筛查方式是否改变，需要传染病学专家与临床专家们在对这一论文进行评议之后，与政策制定者综合考量_文|《财经》记者赵天宇 孙爱民 编辑|王小2020年2月9日，国家呼吸系统疾病临床医学研究中心主任、中国工程院院士钟南山作为通讯作者，在MedRxiv网站上发表论文称，1099名新冠病毒感染者中，初次就诊时就出现发烧症状的人，还不到一半。
Changes in screening methods in primary prevention and control require comprehensive consideration by infectious disease experts and clinical experts. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
另外，新冠病毒潜伏期最长可能达24天。
In addition, the incubation period of the new crown virus can be up to 24 days.
这篇论文是由钟南山等37位作者共同完成，作者来自广州呼吸健康研究院、武汉市金银潭医院、黄冈市中心医院等。
The study was written by 37 authors, including Zhong Nan Shan, Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Huanggang Central Hospital.
MedRxiv是一个预印版服务平台，临床研究的科研人员可在此平台上分享未经过同行评议的研究。
MedRxiv is a pre-print service platform on which clinical researchers can share non-peer-reviewed research.
“在疫情发展初期，大约半个月以前，就有临床医生反映，有些患者初诊时没有发烧症状，我们也刻意加大了这方面研究，没想到初诊不发烧的比例这么高，56.2%。
"In the early stages of the epidemic, about half a month ago, clinicians reported that some patients had no fever at the time of initial diagnosis, and we deliberately increased our research in this area.
”论文的作者之一，广州一名呼吸道疾病专家对《财经》记者说。
"One of the authors, a Guangzhou respiratory disease expert, told Caijing.
研究者因此在论文中提示，如果在监测病例时主要集中在发烧检测上，则可能那些并不发热的患者，可能会被漏诊。
So the researchers suggest in their paper that if the focus is on fever detection in monitoring cases, it may be possible that patients who are not febrile may be missed.
初诊一半以上不发烧，71.8％的患者接触过来自武汉的人该论文的数据，来自截至2020年1月29日，31个省、市的552家医院，研究者提取了1099名实验室确诊新冠肺炎患者数据，做了回顾性研究。
As of January 29, 2020, 552 hospitals in 31 provinces and municipalities had taken data from 1,099 laboratory-confirmed cases of New Crown Pneumonia and conducted a retrospective study.
该项研究中，患者的中位年龄为47.0岁，女性占41.9％。
In the study, the median age of the patients was 47.0 years and 41.9 per cent for women.
仅1.18％的患者与野生动物直接接触过，而31.3％的患者去过武汉，71.8％的患者与来自武汉的人接触过。
Only 1.18 percent of the patients had direct contact with wild animals, while 31.3 percent visited Wuhan and 71.8 percent had contact with people from Wuhan.
值得注意的是，这1099名患者在初次就诊时，发烧的比例仅为43.8％，也就是一半以上得患者初期没有发烧。
It is worth noting that the rate of fever among the 1,099 patients at the time of the initial visit was only 43.8 per cent, i.e. more than half of the patients had no fever at the outset.
不过，在住院后，患者发烧的比例高达87.9％。
However, after hospitalization, the rate of fever was as high as 87.9 per cent.
不发热的新冠肺炎确诊病人，相比于SARS、MERS（中东呼吸综合征）更为常见，SARS感染者不发热的概率仅为1%，MERS也仅有2%的人不发热而已。
Patients diagnosed with non-febrile pneumonia are less likely to have a fever than those diagnosed with SARS or MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome).
研究者提示，如果在监测病例时主要集中在发烧检测上，则可能会漏诊那些并不发热的患者。
The researchers suggest that patients who did not develop fever might be missed if the focus was on fever detection.
在《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》（试行第五版）中，对于新冠肺炎的临床表现，仍是“以发热、乏力、干咳为主要主要表现，少数患者伴有鼻塞、流涕、咽痛和腹泻等症状”“轻型患者仅表现为低热、轻微乏力等，无肺炎表现”。
In the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infection (Trial 5th Edition), the clinical manifestation of coronavirus infection remains "mainly characterized by fever, fatigue and dry cough, with a small number of patients suffering from congested nose, runny nose, sore throat and diarrhea."
这一研究无疑是对未来确诊方案修订的一个重要提示，还需临床医生与研究者坐下来细细讨论诊疗方案，而基层防控中筛查方式是否改变，也需要传染病学专家与临床专家们在对这一论文进行评议之后，与政策制定者综合考量。
This study is no doubt an important indication for future revisions of diagnostic protocols. It will also require clinicians and researchers to sit down and discuss the diagnosis and treatment options, while changes in screening methods in grass-roots prevention and control will also require a review of the paper by epidemiologists and clinical experts to integrate considerations with policymakers.
上述广州呼吸道疾病专家对《财经》记者分析，最早临床医生、基层的社区在判断疑似病例时，发烧是作为其中一个重要的筛查标准，“所以我们在论文中认为，可能会漏掉一些初期不发烧的患者，到底有多少？不好估计，更不好追查”。
"Fever is one of the most important screening criteria used by clinicians and grassroots communities in diagnosing suspected cases," said the Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Expert. "So in our paper, we think we may miss out on the number of patients who did not have fever in the first place.
世界卫生组织（WHO）在1月12日发布的新冠肺炎临床处置指南中，也提及，不发烧不代表没有病毒感染。
The World Health Organization (WHO), in its guidelines for the clinical management of new crown pneumonia on January 12, also notes that not having a fever does not mean there is no infection.
1月29日，由中国疾控中心、湖北武汉疾控中心等单位共同完成，并发表在《新英格兰医学》上的论文，在判定新冠病毒引发的肺炎时，将“发热(腋下体温≥38℃)”作为四大标准之首。
A paper published in New England Journal of Medicine on January 29 by the China CDC and the Wuhan CDC in Hubei Province placed "fever (armpit temperature > 38 ° C)" at the top of the list of four criteria for determining pneumonia caused by the new crown virus.
而如果56.2%的患者初诊不发烧，是否意味着各地在排查疑似患者时测体温的方式有必要进行调整？鉴于各地在机场、地铁、超市等地的主要排查方式就是测体温，“目前仍然以接触史、是否去过湖北、武汉，以及测体温的方式（作为判定依据），让非医学人士操作更多的方式不现实。
If 56.2% of patients are not feverish at the first visit, does this mean that the way the temperature is measured at airports, subways, supermarkets, etc. "It is still unrealistic to give non-medical people more access to history, whether they have been to Hubei, Wuhan, and how their body temperature is measured."
”上述广州广州呼吸道疾病专家说。
"said the Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Expert.
此前学者发布的相关论文中，发烧是大多数患者的主要症状之一。
Fever is one of the main symptoms in most patients, according to related papers published by researchers.
著名医学期刊《柳叶刀》1月24日刊发的北京中日友好医院曹彬及北京协和医学院王建伟等人的论文，纳入了截至2020年1月2日确诊为新冠肺炎41例患者，41例患者中仅有1例没有出现发热，发热者占98%，其中有14名患者发烧39摄氏度以上。
Thesis of Cao Bin of Beijing Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital and Wang Jianwei of Beijing Concorde Medical College published in the famous medical journal Lancet on January 24 included 41 cases of newly diagnosed coronary pneumonia as of January 2, 2020. Fever was absent in only 1 of the 41 cases.
2月7日，学者在《美国医学会杂志》上报道了北京市三家医院收治的13例确诊为新冠肺炎感染患者的早期临床特征，其中，12名患者入院前发烧，平均发烧时间为1.6天。
In the Journal of the American Medical Association on February 7, researchers reported the early clinical features of 13 patients diagnosed with nosocomial pneumonia in three hospitals in Beijing. Twelve of them developed fever before admission, with an average fever of 1.6 days.
钟南山领衔的这项研究则发现，发烧和咳嗽都是新冠病毒感染时最常见的症状。
The study, led by Zhong Nan Shan, found that fever and cough were the most common symptoms of infection with the new crown virus.
患者在入院时，肺部CT呈现毛玻璃一样的特征，是比较典型的影像表现，有一半的患者都出现了这个特征。
At the time of admission, the CT of the lung presented the characteristics of a plexiglass, typical of the imaging findings, which were found in half of the patients.
出现潜伏期24天的案例所谓潜伏期，是一位患者从接触到传播者开始，直到自身症状发作所经过的时间。
The incubation period in a 24-day incubation period is the time that elapses between a patient's contact with the transporter and his or her symptoms.
“潜伏期主要与病人的免疫力，尤其与是否叠加其他疾病、慢性病有关系，另外与病毒本身的变异发展状况等因素相关。
"The incubation period is mainly related to the immunity of patients, especially to whether they are superimposed with other diseases and chronic diseases, as well as the evolution of the virus itself.
”上述广州呼吸道疾病专家告诉《财经》记者。
The Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Expert told Caijing.
这项研究显示，新冠病毒的中位潜伏期天数是3天。
The study showed a median incubation period of three days for the new crown virus.
患者的潜伏期长短不一，范围分布从0天一直到最长24天。
The incubation period varied from 0 days to a maximum of 24 days.
此次研究的样本中，绝大多数患者的潜伏期在7天以内，“基本不影响现在各地对于公众隔离、观察期的政策，14天观察期仍然是科学有效的”。
The incubation period of the vast majority of patients in this study was less than 7 days, "basically unaffected by the current local policy of public isolation, observation period, the 14-day observation period remains scientifically valid."
上述广州呼吸道疾病专家说。
The Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Expert said.
不过，北京胸科医院的一名专家认为，该论文在潜伏期数据的说明方面，应该注明95%的置信区间，“相信24天潜伏期应该是个案，也有可能是病人回忆接触史时有纰漏。
However, an expert from the Beijing Chest Hospital said the paper should indicate a 95% confidence interval in the interpretation of latency data, "believing that the 24-day incubation period should be an individual case, or perhaps a patient's memory lapses in exposure."
95%的置信区间数据可以避免个别问题数据对整体范围、上下限的影响”。
The 95% confidence interval data can avoid the influence of individual problem data on the whole range, upper and lower bound.
1月29日，《新英格兰医学杂志》发布过一篇论文，分析了武汉市前425例确诊的新冠肺炎病例发现，在前425个病例中，新冠病毒的平均潜伏期为5.2天，95%的患者潜伏期在4.1到7天之间。
On January 29, the New England Journal of Medicine published a paper analysing 425 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Wuhan, with an average incubation period of 5.2 days for the new crown virus and 4.1 to 7 days for 95 per cent of the patients in the top 425 cases.
这篇论文作者多数来自北京、武汉等多个城市的疾控中心，包括中国疾控中心副主任冯子健。
Most of the paper's authors come from the CDC in Beijing, Wuhan and other cities, including Feng Zijian, deputy director of China CDC.
“在中位数方面有点区别，这与取样有关。
"There is a difference in the median, which is related to sampling.
”上述广州呼吸道疾病专家解释。
The Guangzhou Respiratory Disease Expert explains.
如今这篇论文指出新冠病毒的中位潜伏期是3天，这项研究的样本量更大，可以从更多的样本中提供证据，来指导新冠肺炎密切接触者的隔离时间长度。
Now the paper points to a three-day median incubation period for the new crown virus, a larger sample that could provide evidence from more samples to guide the length of isolation of close contacts with Newcrown Pneumonia.
该项研究的发现与国家统计数据一致，截至2020年2月6日，中国28,018例病例中的死亡率为2.01％。
The findings of the study are consistent with national statistics, with a mortality rate of 2.01 per cent of China's 28,018 cases as at 6 February 2020.
研究显示，新冠病毒感染的病死率，低于SARS和中东呼吸综合症冠状病毒感染（MERS-CoV）。
Studies have shown that the new crown virus infection rate is lower than SARS and the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus infection (MERS-CoV).
研究者认为，集中管理的方式，例如武汉金银潭医院等，带来的一个后果是医护人力的稀释和不足，这可能导致较高的死亡率。
One of the consequences of a centrally managed approach, say, Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, is a dilution and shortage of healthcare personnel, which can lead to higher mortality, researchers said.
新冠病毒疫情曾导致大众恐慌，如今这些新发现将把新冠病毒真正的传播能力告知公众、临床医生和政策制定者。
These new discoveries will now inform the public, clinicians, and policymakers about the true spread of the new crown virus, which has caused widespread panic.
研究者建议，严格及时的流行病学控制措施，对于遏制新冠疫情的迅速蔓延而言，是至关重要的。
Strict and timely epidemiological controls are essential to containing the rapid spread of the new crown.
值得注意的是，这篇论文目前是“预发表”状态，并非正式发稿版本。
It is worth noting that this paper is currently in a "pre-release" state, not an official release.
论文在学术期刊上正式发表之前，通常要先进行同行评议。
The paper is usually peer-reviewed before it is officially published in an academic journal.
在此过程中，学术期刊的编辑会征询专家的意见，这些专家被称为“审稿人”，他们对论文进行评估。
In the process, the editors of academic journals consult with experts, known as "reviewers," who evaluate the papers.
由于这个过程可能会比较漫长，因此作者可以在同行评议之前，将手稿的“预发表”版本先发布出来，这样其他科学家就可以立即查看并讨论。
Because the process can be lengthy, authors can publish an "advance" version of the manuscript before peer review so that other scientists can view and discuss it immediately.
需要提示的是，目前这篇论文尚未经作者最终定稿，尚未得到医学界的最终评估，所提供的信息可能是错误的。
It should be noted that this paper has not yet been finalized by the author, has not yet been finally evaluated by the medical community and the information provided may be erroneous.
这篇论文目前发布在medRxiv网站上，从事临床研究的科研人员可以在medRxiv平台上分享未经过同行评议的研究，从而有助于及时传播最新的发现，也有助于研究人员接收反馈进而完善研究内容。
The paper is now available on medRxiv, where clinical researchers can share unpeer-reviewed research on the medRxiv platform, helping to disseminate up-to-date findings in a timely manner and helping researchers to receive feedback to improve research content.
钟南山对疫情的判断，曾在2月9日《南方日报》文章中表示，“最关键的是什么？是看我们疾病的增加率”。
Zhong Nan Shan's diagnosis of the epidemic, in February 9 Southern Daily newspaper article, "What is the most critical thing is to see the rate of increase in our disease."
新增的病例若是再有下降，那就表明疫情形势有好转。
A further decline in the number of new cases would indicate an improvement in the situation.
据国家卫健委官方微博发布， 2月9日0-24时，新增确诊病例3062例，其中湖北2618例。
According to the official Weibo National Health Commission, February 9 0-24, 3062 new cases were confirmed, among which 2,618 in Hubei.
这一数据较前一日略增，但已经低于2月4日的单日新增确诊病例最高点（当日全国新增确诊3887例，其中湖北省3156例）。
This is a slight increase from the previous day, but it is lower than the highest number of newly confirmed cases in a single day on February 4 (3,887 new cases were confirmed nationwide, including 3,156 in Hubei Province).
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
钟南山等37位作者发文：病毒潜伏期最长24天，初诊一半多不发烧。
The virus incubates for up to 24 days and more than half of the first visits do not have a fever.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "钟南山等37位作者发文：病毒潜伏期最长24天，初诊一半多不发烧";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "基层防控中筛查方式是否改变，需要传染病学专家与临床专家们在对这一论文进行评议之后，与政策制定者综合考量";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether or not screening changed at the grass-roots level required a review of the paper by epidemiologists and clinicians to integrate with policy makers & quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
