武汉医疗物资之困：我们能做什么？。
Wuhan Medical Material Hardship: What Can We Do?
驳静。
Calm down.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
记者 | 驳静 董冀宁实习记者 | 李秀莉昨天下午，“湖北之声”发布《武汉紧急求援》，指出多家医院物资紧张，可能只够维持3-5天。
Yesterday afternoon, Hubei Sound issued Wuhan Emergency Appeal for Assistance, pointing out that many hospitals were in a material shortage that might last only three to five days.
本刊记者接触到的一线医护人员也反应了同样的情况。
This print reporter contact front-line medical personnel also reflected the same situation.
“为什么我们显得这么着急呢？病毒肆虐、患者翻倍，这些我们都有办法克服，无非是勤消毒、三班倒，但假如口罩没了的话，只要有一名医护人员疑似感染，十几位同科室的同事马上都要隔离，这个门诊就垮了。
"Why do we seem to be in such a hurry? We all have ways to overcome the virus and double the number of patients, but if the mask is missing, if a medical worker is suspected of infection and a dozen colleagues in the same department are immediately isolated, the clinic will collapse.
”武汉市一位三甲医院物资科负责人杨照如是说。
"Wuhan City, a Sanjia hospital supplies section in charge of Yang said.
在这几天，我们武汉肺炎的系列报道发出后，不断有爱心读者咨询我们如何捐赠武汉，为武汉提供帮助。
In the past few days, our Wuhan pneumonia series of reports issued, the loving readers have continued to ask us how to donate Wuhan, Wuhan to provide help.
《三联生活周刊》将参与协调捐赠信息，帮助大家更有效率地完成对接。
Triple Life Weekly will be involved in co-ordinating donation information to help people connect more efficiently.
我们在《三联生活周刊》的官方微博上开通了#三联在行动#的话题，大家有匹配资源的，可以和我们实时互动。
We have a # 3 action # topic on the official microblog of Triple Life Weekly, and we can interact with us in real time if we have matching resources.
“缺的东西太多了”▲▲▲武汉各个医院医疗物资缺乏的信息在网上铺天盖地，是从1月23号开始的。
"There is too much missing items" The lack of medical supplies in Wuhan hospitals in the Internet, from January 23 began.
包括武汉大学人民医院、武汉科技大学附属天佑医院在内的众多三甲医院通过官微、微信群直接发布海报，面向社会公开征集口罩、防护服等医疗物资。
A large number of hospitals, including Wuhan University People's Hospital and Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated Tian You Hospital, issue posters directly through micro-officials and micro-groups, and openly solicit medical supplies such as masks and protective clothing from the public.
处在抗击新型冠状病毒一线的医院以物资科长或工会主席挂帅，越过卫计委和慈善组织，直接向社会“喊话”，征集医疗物资。
In the front line of the fight against the new coronavirus, the head of the material section or the president of the trade union, across the health and planning commission and charitable organizations, directly to the community "address" and collect medical supplies.
我刊微博也收到大量读者私信，他们多有亲人在医院工作，对亲友处在防护物资缺乏的易感染环境表达忧虑。
I also received a large number of personal letters readers, many of them family members working in hospitals, friends and relatives in the lack of protective materials vulnerable to the environment.
医院的医疗物资急缺到什么程度？杨照是武汉市指定的七家收治新型冠状肺炎定点医院之一的物资科负责人，他向本刊展示了两份清单，都是面向社会筹集医疗物资所用。
Yang Zhaoxiao, the director of the material department of one of the seven designated hospitals for treating new types of coronary pneumonia in Wuhan, showed us two lists, all for use by society in raising medical supplies.
1月23日的清单上写着“需医用外科口罩、医用防护口罩（捐赠产品需满足YY0469-2010和GB19083-2010标准）”，而仅仅第二天，这些标准被悄然抹去，简化为“N95口罩（无换气阀）10万个、一次性医用外科口罩20万个、普通口罩1万个”。
The list of January 23 says "Medical surgical masks, medical respirators (donated products must meet YY0469-2010 and GB19083-2010 standards)," and only the next day they were quietly erased to "100,000 N95 respirators, 200,000 disposable medical surgical masks and 10,000 ordinary face masks."
作为医院医疗耗材采购委员会的成员，杨照很清楚“YY”所代表医用标准的意义。
As a member of the hospital medical supplies procurement committee, Yang is well aware of the significance of the medical standards represented by "YY."
同样能够过滤99.5%以上颗粒物的口罩，减去“YY”标准后，意味着，它们会比同规格防雾霾口罩少一层蓝色无纺布，但是，就是这层无纺布，让医用外科口罩拥有比普通防粉尘N95口罩拥有更高的抗菌能力。
Similarly, respirators that filter more than 99.5% of particulate matter, minus YY, mean that they will have less blue non-woven cloth than the same size smog mask, but it is this non-woven fabric that gives medical surgical masks a higher antibacterial capability than regular dust-resistant N95 masks.
同时，医用标准也意味着更严苛的使用规定。
At the same time, medical standards also mean stricter rules of use.
普通N95口罩“可重复使用，不可水洗”，相比之下，能进入隔离区的医用外科口罩，则要求“一次性使用，每4-6小时更换”。
Normal N95 masks are "reusable and non-washable," compared with "disposable, 4-6-hour replacements" for medical surgical masks that enter the area of separation.
作为要上手术台的医疗耗材，医院定期为送来的口罩留样，甚至发生过召回事件。
As the medical supplies to go to the operating table, the hospital regularly for the delivery of masks samples, and even recalled the incident.
“可以说是口罩本身和这一套严苛的卫生标准共同保障着医护人员的安全。
"It can be said that the mask itself and this set of stringent health standards to ensure the safety of health-care workers.
”杨照告诉本刊，而在此之前，医院从未采购过非医疗标准的口罩。
Mr Yang told the print that the hospital had never purchased a non-medical standard mask before.
但他现在顾不了这么多了，他告诉本刊，如果再不能得到有效补充，他所在的医院，这家位列武汉市卫健委指定的7家新型冠状病毒收治医院的三甲医院，口罩只够继续供应两个星期了。
But he can't take care of so much now, he told the magazine. If he can't be replenished effectively, his hospital, triple-A, one of the seven new coronavirus hospitals designated by the Wuhan Health Commission, will have enough masks to last only two weeks.
因为每天都涌进大量病人，具体物资的缺口难以统计，武汉普仁医院一位负责人称“我能说出来具体数据的是过氧乙酸，起码需要800瓶”，800瓶用于消毒的过氧乙酸，可以撑半个月至一个月，其余口罩、防护服则难以统计，只能用着看。
"It's peroxyacetic acid, at least 800 bottles," said a director of Wuhan Puren Hospital. "800 bottles of disinfectant peroxyacetic acid can last half a month to a month, while the remaining masks and suits are hard to count and can only be used.
在汉阳医院，n95防护口罩库存已全部用完，一次性使用的防护服剩余不足千件，该医院设备科的王璐告诉本刊，这些防护服按正常每天两三百套的消耗量，最多能再支撑2~3天。
At Hanyang Hospital, where stocks of n95 face masks have been used up and fewer than a thousand pieces of disposable protective clothing remain, Wang Lu of the hospital's equipment department told the magazine that these suits can last for up to two to three days at a normal consumption rate of two to three hundred sets a day.
为控制用量，尽可能撑到年后工厂恢复生产。
In order to control the amount of use, as long as possible after the factory to resume production.
他们目前采取的办法是，一套防护服重复多次使用。
Their current approach is to repeat multiple uses of a suit.
且优先供应给呼吸科、内分泌科和隔离病区的医护工作者。
Priority is given to health care workers in respiratory, endocrinology and isolation areas.
其他医务工作者只能戴基本的挂耳式口罩、穿普通工作服，“基本是暴露的状态”。
Other medical workers can only wear basic ear masks, wearing ordinary work clothes, "basically exposed state."
把全副武装优先给一线接待门诊的医生使用，几乎是所有物资紧缺医院采取的策略。
Giving priority to heavily armed doctors at first-line care clinics is a strategy adopted by almost all hospitals with scarce supplies.
李由的母亲在武汉黄陂区人民医院工作。
Li Yi's mother works in the People's Hospital of Huangpi District, Wuhan.
该医院“发热门诊已经爆满”，二线和三线的医生随时待命。
The hospital's "fever clinic is full" and second- and third-line doctors are on call.
李由的母亲就是待命的医生之一，处在这样一个交叉感染的环境里，却远远“轮不到防护服”。
Li's mother is one of the doctors on call, in such a cross-infection environment, but far from "protective clothing."
武汉市第五医院负责人在接受本刊采访时则提到，除了医用外科口罩，其余防护物资都紧缺，以至于该医院“一度开不了诊”。
The head of Wuhan Fifth Hospital told the magazine that, apart from medical surgical masks, other protective materials were in short supply, making the hospital "unusable for a time.
爆发的需求▲▲▲杨照是在1月20日真正意识到医院医用耗材的供应可能要出现问题的。
THE EXPLOSIVE NEEDS Yang Zhao realized on January 20th that there might be a problem with the supply of medical consumables in hospitals.
这天，武汉市通报新增100多个新型冠状病毒肺炎病例。
On that day, Wuhan City announced the addition of more than 100 new coronavirus pneumonia.
从去年底武汉首次通报有27例患者感染新型肺炎以来，杨照称，他们院里呼吸科和发热门诊的就诊人数一直在增加，但总体上都处在可控的增长。
Since Wuhan first reported 27 cases of new pneumonia late last year, Mr. Yang said attendance at the hospital's ventilator and fever clinic had been increasing, but overall it was growing at a manageable pace.
“其实增加医用耗材的采购、保障医护人员安全，我们院领导早就做了这样的决定。
"In fact, to increase the procurement of medical supplies, to ensure the safety of medical staff, our hospital leadership has long made such a decision.
比如从1月14日开始，院里的感染科要求穿隔离防护服，这在全省都是很早的，对于我们保障部门来说，医院平时也有做相应的准备。
For example, from January 14, the infection section of the hospital required to wear protective clothing, which is very early in the province, for our security department, the hospital also has the corresponding preparation.
”但是关键问题在于，医疗用品采购，对于医院来说是一项复杂的系统工程，“像类似口罩、消毒液这种大批量低价值的医疗耗材，通常是由地区卫计委通过省级的阳光采购平台统一招标采购的，也有一部分是医院通过医药代理公司采购，周期相对较长。
But the key issue is that the procurement of medical supplies, a complex systems project for hospitals, is "a large volume of low-value medical supplies, such as masks and disinfectants, usually procured by DHBs through the Provincial Sunshine Procurement Platform, or hospitals through pharmaceutical agents with relatively long lead times."
”杨照说，报告打上去后，虽然等的时间比较长，得到的反馈大都还算积极，不少企业表示有库存可以调货，但是也有医药代表提醒他，年底企业要停生产线，建议医院多采购一些。
Yang said the feedback was mostly positive after the report was typed in, with many companies saying they had stock from stock to move, but some medical representatives reminded him that companies should stop production lines by the end of the year and advised hospitals to buy more.
但是，因为当时还不确定自己所在的医院是否会被列为定点医院，院领导最终拍板了一个相对保守的数字。
However, because it was not certain that his hospital would be designated as a designated hospital, the hospital's leaders eventually called a relatively conservative number.
医务人员身着防护服接诊（中新社供图）但没想到，1月20日武汉通报新增病例后，超过日常人数10倍的患者涌入了医院，“这中间既有病毒潜伏期的问题，也有本身传染病爆发带给人们心态上的变化”，杨照说，虽然截止到目前，因为检验盒部署不足，部分患者仍然无法确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎，但同时，医院接诊的普通肺炎患者和因伤寒引起的发热患者也在迅速增长。
More than 10 times the daily number of patients poured into the hospital after Wuhan announced the new cases on January 20. "There are both latent virus problems and the outbreak of their own infectious diseases that have caused people to change their mindsets," Yang said.
“所以院里肯定也有相应调整，比如按原来的患者密度，一天可能4次消毒就够了，现在要增加到8次。
"So there must be a corresponding adjustment in the hospital. For example, at the original patient density, maybe four times a day would be enough to disinfect it now to eight times.
我们尽可能调整和优化了新型冠状病毒患者的确诊和治疗方案，比如通过设立发热门诊专区、做CT影像等排除一部分普通肺炎患者，减少不必要的医疗资源浪费，但仍然无法控制患者数量的井喷。
To the extent possible, we have adjusted and optimized the diagnosis and treatment programs for patients with new coronavirus, such as eliminating some common pneumonia patients by setting up special areas for fever clinics and making CT images, thus reducing unnecessary waste of medical resources, but still unable to control the blowout of patients.
”2天后的1月22日，武汉市卫计委公布的7家发热门诊定点医院（市汉口医院、市红十字会医院、市七医院、市四医院西院区、市九医院、市武昌医院、市五医院）为新型冠状病毒感染的疑似病例和确诊病例收治医院，但医疗耗材短缺的危机已经发生了。
"Two days later, on January 22, the seven designated hospitals (City Hankou Hospital, City Red Cross Hospital, City Seven Hospital, City Four Hospital Western Hospital, City Jiu Hospital, City Wuchang Hospital and City Five Hospital) were admitted to hospitals for the suspected and confirmed cases of the new coronavirus infection.
医院常规的采购渠道目前处于供不应求的状态。
The normal procurement channels of hospitals are in short supply at present.
“厂家要么已经放假，要么订不到货，各家医院都很紧缺。
"The factories are either closed or not ordered and hospitals are in short supply.
”王璐他们在发出网络求助前，向七八家武汉当地的医院打电话借调防护服，结果“一套都借不到，每一家医院都没有。
Wang Lu called seven or eight local hospitals to lend protective clothing before sending out online help, only to find that "not a suit can be borrowed, not a hospital.
”武汉科技大学附属天佑医院同样发布了“接受爱心捐赠公告”，该院医生告诉本刊，几天前他们想办法自己购买了一些，但也难以为继，“发了单子下来过，让我们填报需求，也不知道什么时候才能有”。
"Wuhan University of Science and Technology affiliated Tianyou Hospital also issued a" notice of acceptance of love donation, "the hospital doctors told the print that a few days ago they tried to buy some on their own, but could not sustain it.
即使是医院，面对突发的疫病也难言准备完全，一位负责采购的同事任菲称，按照正常程序，“防护服这个东西几乎已经很久没用过。
Even hospitals are ill-prepared for sudden outbreaks, says Ren Fei, a procurement co-worker. "Protective clothing has been around for almost a long time," says Ren Fei, a procurement officer.
在库存里面量都比较少。
Less quantity in stock.
爆发之前没有备，等大家接到通知时厂家早就放假，很多货调不过来，提前抢可能才有。
Before the outbreak of no preparation, and so everyone was informed that manufacturers have long holiday, a lot of goods can not come, pre-emptive may have.
”一位上述七家医院之一的眼科医生告诉本刊，他们处于二线科室的医生甚至只能通过海外的同学等协调购买，“我们有美国的同学，有澳大利亚的，有个北医联盟是同济的，他们发挥了很重要的作用，他们马上就呼吁帮我们买了，马上就看到截图说没有货了。
An ophthalmologist at one of the seven hospitals told the magazine that doctors in their second-tier departments could only buy in concert with their classmates overseas. "We have American classmates, Australian doctors, a northern medicine league, and they played a very important role in calling for help.
我就要了一点，不敢要多，不好意思一个人用，还是要分出去，自己留个一两套。
I asked for a little bit, dare not ask more, shame a person to use, still want to separate out, oneself leave one or two sets.
”眼科医生所在的医院目前已经转走了两个重症医生，隔离了好几个。
The ophthalmologist's hospital has now moved two doctors in serious condition and quarantined several.
难以抵达的救援▲▲▲医院的“自救”在互联网上引发巨大反响，包括武汉大学校友会、卓明灾害信息服务中心，以及大量粉丝团体都在积极协调各方资源。
Difficult to Reach The "self-help" in the Internet triggered a huge response, including Wuhan University Alumni Association, Zhuo Ming Disaster Information Service Center, and a large number of fans are actively coordinating resources.
武汉普仁医院一位医生告诉本刊，自从呼吁信息发出后，他就不断接到电话，“就在接你电话的这个当口，就有好几个来电”。
Wuhan Puren Hospital, a doctor told the print, since the appeal for information, he has been receiving phone calls, "just when you answer this mouth, there are several calls."
然而，这其中大多数的电话却并不能转化为有效的救助，原因是“物资进不来”。
Most of these calls, however, do not translate into effective relief because "supplies do not get in."
家住重庆的莲子，这几天都在寻找能够接受医护物资的医院。
Lianzi, who lives in Chongqing, has spent the past few days looking for hospitals that can receive medical supplies.
受她在澳洲开诊所的弟弟所托，购买了一万五千个医用level2口罩，但是出海关需要出具国内接收单位的函件，而据“武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部通告（第4号）”，对境外捐赠的规定是“暂不接受”。
Her brother, who runs a clinic in Australia, bought 15,000 medical level2 masks, but the customs needed a letter from the domestic receiving unit, and the regulations on overseas donations are "temporarily rejected" according to "Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Control Command Circular No. 4."
她看到1月24日网上开始流传的一封感谢信，盖着大红“湖北省归国华侨联合会”的印章。
She saw a thank-you letter circulated online on January 24, under the seal of the "Hubei Provincial Association of Returned Overseas Chinese."
该组织称，有海外侨胞发起募捐医用口罩活动，委托他们捐赠。
The group says overseas Chinese have launched a campaign to raise money for medical masks, entrusting them with donations.
该组织感谢海外侨胞的拳拳爱国之心，但也无奈表示，在与湖北省慈善总会联系时，对方称“疫情处置需要按照湖北省新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部的统一安排，暂不接受海外捐款款物”。
The group thanked the overseas Chinese for their patriotic sentiments, but said it had contacted the Hubei Provincial Association of Charity, saying "the epidemic needs to be handled in accordance with the unified arrangement of the Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command for the New Coronavirus Infected in Hubei Province and will not accept overseas donations," it said.
本刊联系了该组织，核实到感谢信是真实的，湖北省慈善总会给出的理由是，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部通告（第4号）规定，“暂不接受与疫情防控无关的物资和境外捐赠”，该规定公布于1月23日。
The organization was contacted to verify that the letter was genuine and that the Hubei Provincial Association of Charities had given the reason that Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Control Command Circular (No. 4) stipulated that "materials not related to epidemic prevention and control and donations from abroad" would not be accepted for the time being, the regulation was published on January 23.
正是这种“拒之门外”让莲子舍弃官方渠道，转而通过朋友转朋友的方式设法捐赠。
It is this "door of denial" that allows Lianzi to forsake official channels and seek donations through a friend-to-friend approach.
而普通民众第一时间想到的武汉红十字会，也公布了5个座机电话和1个手机号码，用以接受捐赠，遗憾的是，多有网友挨个拨打多次，未能成功接通。
The Wuhan Red Cross, the first think of by ordinary people, has also published five landline phones and a mobile phone number to receive donations. Unfortunately, many netizens made several calls one at a time, but failed to get through.
求助发出后，很多个人捐助者和明星粉丝群联系上医院请求捐助。
After the call, many individual donors and celebrity fans approached the hospital for donations.
“有一个杨幂的粉丝群，建成速度非常快，一下子大概拉了一百七八十号人。
"There is a power of fans, built very fast, all of a sudden about 170 people.
也在跟我们沟通，要什么样的口罩。
Also communicating with us, what kind of mask.
”棘手的是，N95防护口罩和防护服这类专业标准较高的物资，热心网友们也很难找到货源，王璐说，很多捐助者手里的口罩只能满足基本的防尘防雾的作用。
Trouble is that N95 face masks and protective clothing, which are of high professional standards, are also difficult to find for enthusiasts, said Wang Lu.
除此之外，防护服缺口仍然很大。
In addition, gaps in protective clothing remain significant.
任菲告诉本刊，目前捐助者还是以个人和小团体为主，他们一般也是在网上购买到这些物资后再寄过来。
Ren told the magazine that donors are still focused on individuals and small groups, who generally buy the material online and send it back.
因此捐助者的购买渠道较窄；防护服的单价较高可能是捐助者寥的另一个原因。
As a result, donors have a narrower purchasing channel; higher unit prices for protective clothing may be another source of donor support.
武汉“封城”后，目前通行的物流公司主要是顺丰，1月23日，顺丰发布了针对非常时间的收寄服务通知，称“优先保障特殊物资运输派送”。
Wuhan "closed the city," the current prevailing logistics companies are mainly Shunfeng, January 23, Shunfeng issued a special time to receive service notice, said that "priority to ensure the delivery of special goods.
捐赠志愿者和顺丰客服沟通，得到的回复是3公斤以下的东西可以分包装送过去，但是现在整个武汉市情况紧急，他们人员有限，需要收货人自提。
Donations of volunteers and Shun Feng customer service, the response is that less than 3 kg of things can be sent to separate packaging, but now the emergency situation throughout Wuhan, their limited personnel, the consignee need to make their own.
而关于大件物品的寄送，许多医院与捐赠者都在自己想办法。
As for sending large items, many hospitals and donors are doing their own thing.
顺丰的工作人员透露给本刊的是，光是23号这一天，全国范围内寄送医用物资就超过了60吨，这个数字是平常运量的8-10倍。
Shunfeng's staff told the magazine that on the 23rd alone, more than 60 tons of medical supplies were shipped nationwide, 8-10 times the usual volume.
王璐告诉本刊，1月24日上午刚接到的通知是，医院开证明后，就可以外派专用车辆去接这些货。
Wang Lu told this print, January 24 morning just received the notification that the hospital issued a certificate, can be sent out to pick up these goods.
但王璐新的担忧是，根据他们听到的风声，武汉下一步就是封区，封区以后各区之间的物流交通怎么办？她希望不会成为更大的难题。
But Wang Lu's new worry is that according to the wind they hear, Wuhan is the next step is to seal the area, after the district logistics between how to do? She hopes not to become a bigger problem.
（杨照、任菲和王璐为化名）作者档案驳静三联记者，喜欢听故事、说人话。
(Yang Zhao, Ren Fei and Wang Lu for alias) the author file LianJing Sanlian reporters, like to listen to stories, say people.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博、豆瓣都是：驳静董冀宁一个好吃的人26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@董记煎饼请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Jining Dong Jining a delicious person 26 minutes ago individual Weibo: @ Dongji Pancake please prick [5dZi] # Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # I'm On the Front Line # Topics Ongoing All-Stories in Three Lives Weekly are now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
驳静。
Calm down.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉医疗物资之困：我们能做什么？。
Wuhan Medical Material Hardship: What Can We Do?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉医疗物资之困：我们能做什么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
var msg_desc = "每天都涌进大量病人，具体物资的缺口难以统计。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with a large influx of patients every day, the gap in specific supplies is difficult to account for.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
