有序复工与做好防疫，一个都不能少！。
Orderly resume work and do a good job of epidemic prevention, not less than one!
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经十一人。
The following article comes from eleven financial experts.
Author 韩舒淋 等。
Author Han Shulin, etc.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
_2月10日这个周一，中国多个省市迎来了春节后第一个工作日，虽然比原定假期已推迟一周，但政府、企业和个人所面临的疫情防控压力都不小。
_ February 10 The first working day after the Spring Festival begins in many Chinese cities and provinces. Although the holiday has been delayed by a week, governments, businesses and individuals are under pressure to prevent and control the disease.
当前，湖北省仍需要着力抓好疫情防控，其他地区也需要做好防控的同时有序恢复生产_文|《财经》记者韩舒淋 辛颖杨立赟马霖 吴琼编辑| 余乐2月10日早上，数百万早起的北京市民在手机地图上看到了代表交通拥堵的红色。
At present, Hubei Province still needs to focus on disease prevention and control. Other areas also need to do a good job of preventing and controlling the disease while restoring production in an orderly fashion. Caijing reporter Han Shulin Xinying Yang Kai-yun, editor and director of Ma Lin Qiong.
自春节放假至今半个多月来，被推迟一周的第一个工作日，久违的“早高峰”又回来了，但比起日常的拥堵盛况还差了很多。
Since the Spring Festival holiday has lasted more than half a week, the long-overdue "early peak" has returned, but far less than the usual congestion.
上午10点左右，往日人流汹涌的北京东三环国贸商城客流不多。
Around 10: 00 a.m., the past crowd of people in Beijing DongSan Ring International Trade Center traffic is not much.
《财经》记者现场看到，商场入口有红外线体温检测，开门的商户约占一半，逛街者寥寥。
"Caijing" reporters saw the scene, the mall entrance infrared temperature testing, about half of the merchants opened the door, few visitors.
到了午餐时间，开业的餐馆不多，来吃饭的附近写字楼上班族也不多。
At lunchtime, there are not many restaurants open and not many office workers come to eat.
更多餐馆张贴着暂停营业的通知，重新开门时间预计再延后一周，2月17日。
More restaurants have been notified of the suspension and the reopening is expected to be postponed another week, 17 February.
2月10日复工首日，北京国贸商城北区3楼。
February 10 resumption of work, Beijing ITC North District, 3 / F.
摄影/《财经》记者 韩舒淋2月10日上午，往日拥挤的北京地铁，也不再一座难求。
Photography / Caijing reporter Han Shu Lin Feb 10 morning, the old crowded Beijing subway, also no longer difficult to find.
进入地铁需要检测体温，工作人员都佩戴了口罩，但未穿防护服。
To enter the subway need to check body temperature, staff wearing masks, but not wearing protective clothing.
地铁站内的广播一遍遍重复着已采取的防护措施，一切都在提醒大家，各方面为复工做了很多准备。
The broadcasts in the subway station repeated the precautions that had been taken, and everything was a reminder that much had been done to get back to work.
但《财经》记者调查发现，更多行业恢复到节前的状态，还有待时日。
But Caijing's survey of reporters found it will be some time before more industries return to their pre-holiday status.
2月10日复工首日上午10点左右，北京地铁4号线车厢内。
February 10, the first day of resumption of work around 10 a.m., Beijing Metro Line 4 inside the car.
供图/张路遥因为新冠肺炎疫情蔓延，包括北京在内，全国多个省份今年春节假期延长。
The Spring Festival holiday has been extended in several provinces across the country due to the spread of the new crown pneumonia, including Beijing.
随着确诊病例增加，各地不断推迟复工日期。
As confirmed cases have increased, the resumption of work has been continuously postponed.
全国人民宅在家中，大大降低了人员流动造成疫情传播的风险，但经济活动“停摆”带来的风险也在不断积聚。
Nationwide, people live at home, greatly reducing the risk of the spread of the epidemic caused by the movement of people, but the risks posed by the "stop-gap" of economic activity are also accumulating.
2月10日，全国多个省市迎来了节后第一个工作日，拉开了陆续复工潮的帷幕。
February 10, many provinces and cities across the country ushered in the first working day after the festival, began a succession of back-to-work curtain.
无论是对于疫情防控还是经济发展，对于国家、企业还是个人，都将是一场挑战。
Whether for disease control or economic development, for countries, enterprises or individuals, will be a challenge.
政策的支持和援救、企业和员工的团结和谅解，以及社会各界的互帮互助，将是走出困境的关键。
Policy support and rescue, corporate and employee solidarity and understanding, and mutual help from all sectors of society will be the key out of the difficult situation.
多管齐下，保障复工安全自1月23日武汉“封城”开始，新冠肺炎疫情在全国范围蔓延。
Multiple-track, to ensure the safety of the resumption of work since January 23 Wuhan "closure", the new crown pneumonia epidemic spread across the country.
据国家卫生健康委数据，2月9日全国新增确诊病例3062例，其中湖北2618例，累计确诊已超过4万例。
On February 9, 3,062 new cases were confirmed nationwide, including 2,618 in Hubei, with a cumulative total of more than 40,000 confirmed cases, according to the National Health Council.
令人稍感欣慰的是，除湖北外，其他省份的每日新增确诊病例数已从2月3日的890例下降到2月9日的444例，降幅超五成。
With the exception of Hubei, the number of newly confirmed cases per day fell by more than 50 per cent, from 890 on 3 February to 444 on 9 February.
这表明各地联防联控机制以及严格管理等防控措施正在发挥作用。
This shows that the joint control mechanisms and strict management of the various control measures are working.
面对严重程度不一的疫情，各地结合自身情况制定了不同的复工时间表。
In the face of different degrees of severity of the epidemic, the local situation has developed a different timetable for resumption of work.
疫情相对较轻的东北和西北各省区大多已于2月3日复工，更多的省份则在2月10日迎来第一个工作日，其中包括返城人口压力最大的北京、上海、广州等城市。
Most of the north-eastern and north-western provinces, where the epidemic was relatively low, resumed work on 3 February, while many more began their first working day on 10 February, including cities such as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou, which are among the most heavily affected by urban return.
疫情最严重的湖北省的复工日期定在2月14日。
The resumption of work in Hubei province, the worst affected province, is set for February 14.
那么，如何判断此时“复工”是安全的？多位接受《财经》记者采访的医学专家均表示，“每日新增疑似病例”是一个重要指标。
So how do you tell if it's safe to get back to work at this point? Many medical experts interviewed by Caijing said the number of "new suspected cases per day" was an important indicator.
“确诊病例的增加是积压下来的，不是新发数。
"The increase in confirmed cases is a backlog, not a new one.
所以要看疑似病例增加，”一位不愿透露姓名的传染病研究人员解释说。
So there is an increase in the number of suspected cases, "explained an infectious disease researcher who declined to be named.
从国家卫健委近一周公布的数字来看，全国和湖北省的新增疑似病例数呈现出稳中有降的趋势，这是一个积极的信号。
Figures released by the National Fitness and Health Commission in the past week show a steady downward trend in the number of new suspected cases nationwide and in Hubei province, which is a positive sign.
全国和湖北省每日新增疑似病例数 制表/李林第二个指标是潜伏期的计算。
The second indicator of daily number of new suspected cases in China and Hubei province is the calculation of incubation period.
前述研究人员称，新冠肺炎病毒的最长潜伏期为14天，大多数人的潜伏期则在7天以内。
According to the researchers, the maximum incubation period for the new crown pneumonia virus is 14 days, and for most people it is less than seven days.
目前湖北省的复工日期定在2月14日，距离武汉“封城”的日期已经过去了21天。
The resumption of work in Hubei Province is scheduled for February 14, 21 days after the date of Wuhan "closure".
也就是说，“封城”前因防控意识和措施不到位而感染病毒的人群都已“浮出水面”，并得到治疗和隔离。
In other words, people infected with the virus prior to the "closure" because of a lack of awareness and prevention measures have "surfaced" and were treated and quarantined.
“武汉是最早发病的地方，感染者大多也是最早一批。
"Wuhan was the earliest place to get sick, and most of the infected people were also the first group.
如果有这个病毒已经发出来了，没有这个病毒也过了潜伏期了，14天就是安全。
If the virus has been sent, no virus has passed its incubation period, 14 days is safe.
”上海瑞金医院感控科主任倪语星对《财经》记者说。
"Ni Yuxing, director of sensory control at Shanghai Ruijin Hospital, told Caijing.
“只要做好个人防护，再做好环境的清洁和消毒，逐步复工应该是可以考虑的。
"As long as you do a good job of personal protection, cleaning and disinfection of the environment, gradual resumption of work should be considered.
”此次新冠肺炎疫情的爆发，恰逢春节前夕。
The outbreak of pneumonia coincides with the Chinese New Year's Eve.
由于疫情未得到及时、足够的重视，人口大量流动导致了疫情从武汉扩散至全国。
Due to the epidemic did not receive timely and sufficient attention, the large-scale population movement led to the spread of the epidemic from Wuhan to the whole country.
现在，尽管防护意识大大提高，人们仍担心复工带来的大规模人口流动，可能会造成新的疫情蔓延。
Now, despite the heightened awareness of protection, there is concern that the massive population movements associated with the resumption of work could lead to the spread of new outbreaks.
为此，中央和各地政府已经采取了多种措施，以应对即将到来的返工大潮。
To this end, the central and local governments have taken various measures in response to the upcoming rework wave.
首先，各地根据自身的疫情形势，灵活地做出复工安排，如要求学校、幼儿园延迟开学，鼓励有条件的企业在家办公、错岗上班等，事实上形成了“错峰”返工的效果，降低了出行人口聚集的风险。
In the first place, all localities have the flexibility to make back-to-work arrangements in light of their own epidemic situation, such as requiring schools and kindergartens to reopen late, and encouraging conditional enterprises to work at home or in shifts, thus effectively creating a "staggered peak" rework effect, thus reducing the risk of mass migration.
对于返城路途上可能遇到的染病风险，交通运输部门也实行了多项措施，如要求将长途客运和客轮的成员人数按照额定人数的50％控制客座率，引导乘客间保持一定距离等。
The transport sector has also put in place a number of measures, such as requiring that the number of members of long-haul passenger and passenger ships should be controlled at 50 per cent of the authorized number of passengers and that passenger distance should be maintained.
各火车站、飞机场均设置了测温装置，火车上还预留了用于隔离发热人员的坐席。
All railway stations and airports are equipped with temperature measuring devices, the train is also reserved for the isolation of the febrile seat.
同时，各省市视情况对复工人员做了居家隔离要求，并对复工后人员密集可能带来的疫情风险做了安排。
At the same time, provinces and municipalities, depending on the circumstances, have imposed residential isolation requirements on returning workers and have made arrangements for the possible risk of epidemic disease resulting from such a build-up.
另一个有助于降低复工潮对疫情影响的因素是，经过半个多月的全国性战疫行动，全民防护意识已经大大提升。
Another factor that has helped to reduce the impact of the resumption of the epidemic is that, after more than half a month of nationwide operations, awareness of national protection has greatly increased.
城市中已很难见到外出不戴口罩的人。
It is hard to see people wearing masks outside the city.
无论机场、火车站、商店、餐厅还是社区街道，都有不同形式的量体温、封闭隔离、行踪排查等防控措施。
Whether the airport, railway station, shops, restaurants or community streets, there are different forms of temperature measurement, closed isolation, whereabouts screening and other control measures.
近一周来湖北省外的确诊病例大幅减少，说明这些措施已经起到了明显的效果。
The sharp drop in the number of confirmed cases outside Hubei province in the past week suggests that these measures have had a noticeable effect.
武汉协和医院感染科主任医师赵雷教授对《财经》记者表示，复工是对前期隔离工作是否到位的一个检验。
Professor Zhao Lei, director of infection department at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, told Caijing that returning to work was a test of whether pre-quarantine work was in place.
“如果隔离做得好，复工后可能影响不大。
"If the isolation is done well, it may have little impact when we get back to work.
但是如果隔离没做到位或者有疏漏，复工后的病例数可能就增加较快。
But if isolation does not occur or there are omissions, the number of cases may increase more quickly after resuming work.
”他说。
'he said.
备足口罩，守住复工生命线返城和复工潮的叠加，使得出行人数大大增加，口罩的需求量也必将激增。
The combination of a face mask, a back-to-work lifeline and a return to work has led to a dramatic increase in travel and demand for masks.
在当前的防疫形势下，口罩无疑是最为关键的战略物资。
In the current epidemic situation, masks are undoubtedly the most critical strategic materials.
口罩以及其他防疫物资的生产和供应能否跟得上，对于复工和防疫都非常重要。
The ability to keep pace with the production and supply of masks and other immunization supplies is essential for the resumption of work and immunization.
多个行业复工困难的背景下，防疫物资的相关企业是目前唯一能够正常开工的行业，并且供不应求。
Against the background of difficulties in resuming work in many industries, enterprises related to epidemic prevention materials are the only industries that are able to operate normally and in short supply.
目前各地都在想办法扩张口罩产能，亦不乏如富士康、比亚迪、上汽通用五菱这样的跨界造口罩的企业，这也推升了口罩生产原料和设备的需求。
Across the country, companies such as Foxconn, BYD and SAIC General Wuling are trying to expand their mask-making capacity, boosting demand for mask-making materials and equipment.
进入2月以来，中石化旗下多家工厂紧急增加相关产量，已向市场投放聚丙烯等医卫原料1.5万吨，预计二月份还将继续生产医卫原料约8万吨。
Since February, Sinopec has increased production at several of its plants, releasing 15,000 tons of health-care materials, including polypropylene, into the market, and is expected to produce about 80,000 tons of raw materials in February.
广东东莞是国内口罩生产设备最重要的基地，集中了国内口罩设备的主要供应商。
Dongguan Guangdong mask production equipment is the most important base, the main supplier of domestic mask equipment.
一家东莞口罩设备企业9日对《财经》记者表示，其从大年初三就已复工，现有的订单已经排到了6月，全国各地的客户都有，首批正在陆续交付。
Dongguan mask equipment enterprises told Caijing on the 9th, the company has resumed work since the New Year's Day, existing orders have been scheduled to June, customers all over the country, the first batch is being delivered.
在原材料供应方面，东莞当地工信局已协调上游企业开工，保障供应，并通过政府保障的特殊渠道运输，成本也较平时更贵，而出货的物流都是客户开货车上门自提。
In terms of raw material supply, Dongguan's local ITB has coordinated upstream operations to secure supplies and transport them through special government-guaranteed channels at a more expensive cost than usual, with the logistics of goods being delivered by customers in lorries.
但并非所有设备商都能如此幸运。
But not all device makers are so lucky.
一家长三角的口罩设备供应商对《财经》记者表示，当地的元器件市场还未开门，现在虽然已经申请复工，但产业链不恢复无法开工。
A supplier of mask equipment in the Yangtze River Delta told Caijing that the local component market had not yet opened and that although it had applied to resume work, the industrial chain would not be able to start again.
此外，也有不少上游原材料是温州的供应商提供，当前温州疫情严重，物流渠道也非常困难。
In addition, there are many upstream raw materials are Wenzhou suppliers, the current Wenzhou epidemic is serious, logistics channels are very difficult.
目前只能希望2月下旬市场恢复之后可以快速投入生产，在手订单的制造周期大约是半个月，但交付周期都在一个月左右。
It can only be hoped that production will begin soon after the market resumes in late February, with a manufacturing cycle of about half a month for hand orders and a delivery cycle of about one month.
金融市场对防疫物资的帮助也在同步进行，央行副行长潘功胜在2月7日国务院新闻发布会上表示，央行提供3000亿专项再贷款，通过商业银行向重点医用物品、生活物资的生产、运输、和销售重点企业提供优惠利率信贷支持。
The central bank is providing 300 billion refinancing loans to key medical and living goods production, transportation and sales of key enterprises at preferential interest rates, Pan Gongsheng, vice-president of the central bank, said at a State Council press conference on February 7.
一位山东国有商业银行有关人士对《财经》记者表示，国有商业银行授信流程繁琐，有整体的风险把控操作规范，往往周期较长。
A person concerned in Shandong state-owned commercial bank told Caijing that the credit process of state-owned commercial banks is tedious, and there is an overall risk of standardizing the operation of controls.
但是，目前总行已经下发了快速审批措施，对集团客户授信灵活处理，部分手续可以用款时后补，在新的措施下，预计存量客户一周、新客户两周就可以完成授信。
However, the head office has issued fast-track approval measures to grant credit flexibly to group customers, some of which can be filled in with time. Under the new measures, the credit is expected to be completed within a week for the stock of customers and two weeks for new customers.
不过，由于当前防疫物资需求巨大，防疫物资生产企业收到很多采购需求，并且都有预付款，生产资金并不缺。
However, due to the huge demand for epidemic prevention materials, manufacturers of epidemic prevention materials received a lot of procurement needs, and all have advance payments, production funds are not lacking.
该国有商业银行人士也表示，对当地企业调研发现，企业对银行贷款兴趣并不大，精力都投入在生产上。
Commercial bankers in the country also say surveys of local businesses have found little interest in bank lending and have concentrated on production.
亦有口罩企业高管对《财经》记者表示，多家当地银行前来争取发放贷款，有些银行开出的贷款利率甚至仅略高于2%，远低于4.35%的正常贷款利率。
Many local banks have come forward to lend, and some have offered rates just over 2%, well below the 4.35% normal lending rate, Caijing told Caijing.
但是，这位负责人仍然表示，目前现金流充裕，贷款利率再低也有利息，没有必要。
But the person in charge said there was no need for cash flow and low interest rates on loans.
多家接受采访的防疫企业均透露，虽然目前民用口罩的需求量极大，但由于政府征用时价格被锁定，且上游的物流、原材料成本都在上升，利润率其实相当有限。
A number of enterprises interviewed revealed that although the current demand for civilian masks, but the government requisitioned price lock-in, and upstream logistics, raw materials costs are rising, profit margins are quite limited.
同时，疫情结束后产能过剩的问题也在浮现。
At the same time, the problem of excess capacity has emerged since the end of the epidemic.
江苏的一家口罩生产企业高管对《财经》记者表示，该企业主要的原材料从上海采购，一般每个月进一次货，每次数十吨。
A senior executive at a mask maker in Jiangsu told Caijing that the company's main raw materials are purchased from Shanghai, typically once a month, for tens of tons at a time.
现在正常物流渠道中断，需要政府开具点对点的通行证，指派医药公司下属的物流企业运输，且原材料供应吃紧，只能两三天运一次，每次数百公斤，这都推升了制造的成本。
The disruption of normal logistics channels, the need for point-to-point permits from the Government, the assignment of logistics companies under pharmaceutical companies to transport, and the tight supply of raw materials, which can be shipped only once every two to three days, for hundreds of kilograms at a time, have contributed to the manufacturing costs.
尽管跟政府沟通可以适当提高产品价格，但总体利润有限。
Although communicating with the government can raise prices appropriately, overall profits are limited.
该企业具备多种民用、工业口罩的生产资质，此前产品全部出口国外，但目前产能已经全部供应给地方政府，用以调配到相关部门和企业使用。
The company is qualified to produce a variety of civil and industrial masks, all of which have previously been exported abroad, but capacity has now been fully supplied to local governments for deployment to relevant departments and companies.
工厂还将根据政府要求，新建医用口罩的生产线。
The factory will also build a new production line for medical masks as required by the government.
和民用口罩不同，医用口罩需要在净化车间中生产，尽管政府会在相关审批流程上会有绿色通道，但整个建设周期预计仍需要4到6个月。
Unlike civilian masks, medical masks need to be produced in purification plants, and while the government will have a green channel for approval, the entire construction cycle is expected to take four to six months.
这也就意味着，根据政府要求新投入的医用口罩的产能，暂时并不能解决当前紧缺的需求，待产线投产，疫情或许已经平息，市场情况还是未知数。
That means that the new supply of medical masks required by the government won't be able to meet the immediate needs until production begins, the epidemic may have subsided, and market conditions remain uncertain.
该负责人表示，此前国内对医控物资的储备没有硬性要求，此次疫情之后预计会有储备需求，但对消化产能贡献多大还不清楚。
The director said there had been no domestic mandatory reserve requirements for medical supplies, and that stocks were expected to be in demand after the outbreak, but it was not clear how much would contribute to the absorption of capacity.
企业复工挑战，各方合力克服除防疫物资行业加足马力生产外，大多数行业在过去的半个多月都处于停工状态。
Enterprises return to work challenges, the parties to overcome the epidemic prevention industry in addition to full horsepower production, most industries have been in the past half a month or more.
经济停摆对方方面面的冲击显而易见。
The impact of the economic pause on all sides is clear.
企业的停产和居民出行的减少使进出口、消费和投资都受到影响。
Output, consumption and investment have been affected by the shutdown of enterprises and the reduction in the movement of residents.
根据天风证券的预测，今年前两个月全国社会零售总额将同比下降10%，固定资产投资将下降4%，出口下降6%，进口下降10-12%。
According to Tianfeng Securities forecasts, total social retail sales will fall 10 percent year on year in the first two months of this year, fixed asset investment will fall by 4 percent, exports by 6 percent and imports by 10 to 12 percent.
多家国内外机构均将中国全年GDP增速的预期下调到5%左右。
Several domestic and foreign institutions cut their full-year GDP growth forecast to about 5%.
如果全国疫情并不严重的部分地区能够从2月10日开始陆续复工，很多此前严重受损的行业，将还有机会在一季度后半程有所恢复，相关企业生存、员工就业和经济增长，亦将有所回暖。
If work in parts of the country where the epidemic is less severe starts on February 10, many previously badly damaged industries will have a chance to recover in the second half of the quarter, and businesses, employment and economic growth will recover.
联想集团在深圳、合肥的工厂已经复工。
Lenovo's factories in Shenzhen and Hefei have resumed work.
供图/联想不过，企业在复工过程中仍有不少难题要克服。
However, there are still many difficulties to be overcome in the process of returning to work.
受停工或客流下降的影响，许多企业的资金链已经捉襟见肘，尤其是手中“余粮”不多的中小企业。
Many companies are already struggling with capital chains, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have much surplus, because of work stoppages or falling passenger flows.
即使马上复工，市场需求也很难马上回复到疫情出现前的水平。
Even if work resumes soon, market demand is unlikely to return immediately to pre-epidemic levels.
因此，许多企业的现金流预计将持续吃紧。
As a result, cash flow for many businesses is expected to remain tight.
清华和北大联合发布的一项调研结果显示，在接受调查的995家中小企业中，将近七成的企业现金流最多只能维持两个月，只有不到一成能维持六个月以上。
Nearly 70 percent of the 995 small and medium-sized enterprises surveyed have cash flow for at most two months and less than 10 percent last more than six months, according to a study published jointly by Tsinghua and Peking University.
西贝餐饮董事长贾国龙在接受投中网采访时表示，其两万多名员工的月工资达1.56亿元，在大多数门店停业的情况下，西贝账上的现金撑不过三个月。
Jia Guolong, president of Cibei Restaurant, told SciDev. Net that more than 20,000 employees earn 156 million yuan a month, and most stores are closed for less than three months.
好在，贾国龙的“诉苦”立刻引来了银行的关注。
Fortunately, Jia Guolong's "complaint" immediately attracted the attention of the bank.
2月6日，浦发银行北京分行授信西贝餐饮5.3亿元，其中1.2亿元已经入账。
On February 6, the Pudong branch in Beijing awarded 530m yuan in catering services, of which 120 million yuan has been accounted for.
中小型企业拿到贷款的可能很小，政府的支持政策对他们的帮助更大。
Small and medium-sized enterprises were less likely to receive credit and were assisted more by government support policies.
中央和各地政府已经出台了各种政策，以帮助企业解决复工中的资金困难问题。
Various policies have been put in place by the central and local governments to help businesses solve the financial difficulties of returning to work.
例如，湖北省人民政府2月9日发布了“支持中小微企业共度难关”的通知，宣布了减轻企业负担、强化金融支持和加大财税支持三个方面的措施。
For example, on February 9, the People's Government of Hubei Province issued a notice on supporting MSMEs to spend time together, announcing measures to ease the burden on enterprises, strengthen financial support and increase fiscal support.
具体措施包括下调水电价格、减免房租、加大信贷支持、降低融资成本、减免相关税费、缓缴社保等等。
Specific measures include cutting water and electricity prices, reducing rents, increasing credit support, lowering financing costs, reducing related taxes and fees, and withholding social security payments.
其他省市也都有类似的政策出台。
Similar policies are in place in other provinces and cities.
企业之间也在展开自救与互助行动。
Self-help and mutual assistance activities are also being carried out between enterprises.
万达、金茂、富力、华润置地、融创文旅集团等房企虽然流动性压力都不小，但仍然陆续公布了减免全体商户租金的公告，时间从半个月到一个月不等。
Wanda, Jinmao, FuLi, China Resources Land, integrated into the cultural tourism group and other housing companies although the pressure of liquidity is not small, but still released a waiver of rent for all merchants, from half a month to a month.
“肯定压力都大，共克时艰吧。
"I'm sure it's hard to overcome difficulties together.
”贵州万科的一位财务负责人说。
"said a finance official at Vanke, Guizhou.
员工因客观原因不能复工却需要安置，也是企业头疼的一大问题。
Employees who cannot resume work for objective reasons but need to be placed are also a major headache for enterprises.
近日，盒马鲜生等互联网零售商提出从餐饮等企业借调闲置员工，一方面解决自身的用工荒，另一方面也缓解餐饮企业的成本压力。
Recently, box horse Xiansheng and other Internet retailers offered to borrow idle staff from enterprises such as catering, on the one hand to solve their own shortage of workers, on the other hand, to ease the cost pressure of catering enterprises.
截至2月6号，望湘园、茶颜悦色等21家餐饮企业的1200多人已经加入盒马鲜生的临时用工队伍。
By February 6, more than 1,200 people from 21 catering establishments, including Wangxiang Garden and Tea- Yue, had joined the temporary workforce of fresh boxed horses.
大洋世家、阿铭哥牛肉面等餐饮企业的员工也已在京东七鲜超市上岗，七鲜超市为他们购买了新冠疫情补充保险。
Ocean family, Amingo beef noodle and other restaurant employees have also been in the Jingdong Seven Fresh Supermarket, seven fresh supermarkets for them to buy the new crown epidemic supplementary insurance.
京东方面称，还有多家餐饮、影院、酒店等企业致电咨询，均有兴趣“共享员工”。
Jingdong said that there are a number of restaurants, cinemas, hotels and other enterprises telephone consulting, are interested in "sharing staff."
互联网公司也在发挥着自己在网络基础设施方面的优势，为诸多线下行业提供支持。
Internet companies are also capitalizing on their network infrastructure to support many offline industries.
钉钉、企业微信等在线办公软件均免费开放，为在家办公创造条件。
Nailing, enterprise micro-letter and other online office software are free of charge to create the conditions for working from home.
腾讯方面透露，2月10日，企业微信迎来了最强的一波开工、上课需求，后台服务量上涨10余倍。
Tencent revealed that February 10, the enterprise micro-letter ushered in the strongest wave of work, class demand, backstage service volume rose more than 10 times.
除了自身的资金问题外，企业的复工还受许多外部因素的制约，如供应链上游的原材料企业和物流企业停摆、返乡过年的员工无法回城，以及复工申请的审批流程等等。
In addition to their own financial problems, the resumption of work is constrained by many external factors, such as the suspension of raw material enterprises and logistics enterprises upstream in the supply chain, the inability of workers returning home for the New Year, and the approval process for returning to work applications.
对于政府而言，则要在防控疫情和稳住经济之间做出决策，但二者并非非此即彼，仍有可改善的空间。
For the government, the choice is between controlling the epidemic and stabilizing the economy, but there is still room for improvement.
辽宁的一家小型汽车零部件供应商已经于2月10日复工，但该企业负责人对《财经》记者表示，当前生产的零部件只能供应日本、韩国的海外客户，国内客户仍在等待消息。
A small-car parts supplier in Liaoning resumed work on Feb. 10, but the head of the company told Caijing that the components currently produced can only supply Japanese and Korean customers overseas, and domestic customers are still waiting for news.
浙江的一家电气制造企业负责人对《财经》记者介绍，目前企业复工的硬性条件已经基本具备，采购好了口罩、消毒液等防护设备，企业员工也以本地人为主。
At present, the hard conditions for enterprises to return to work are basically in place, with the purchase of respirators, disinfectant and other protective equipment, and the majority of employees in enterprises are local, said the head of an electrical manufacturing enterprise in Zhejiang.
目前该企业向政府提交了审批材料，但何时能够获批并无明确消息。
The company has now submitted approval materials to the government, but there is no clear information on when it will be approved.
他表示，政府人手有限，而现在几千家企业都在排队等待审批。
He said the government had limited staff and thousands of companies were queuing up for approval.
天津一家制造企业的负责人也向《财经》记者表示，该企业2月初就开始向政府递交材料申请复工，但目前何时能复工仍然没有明确信息。
The head of a Tianjin-based manufacturing company also told Caijing that the company began submitting applications to the government in early February to resume work, but there was still no clear information on when it would resume work.
如果本地没有复工而竞争对手所在地区复工了，他的企业就将丢掉客户和渠道，对企业生存带来直接影响。
If local workers do not return to work and competitors return to work, his business will lose customers and channels, with a direct impact on the survival of the enterprise.
《财经》记者了解到，一些企业对于复工的态度十分矛盾。
Caijing reporter learned that some enterprises to return to work attitude is very contradictory.
停工造成的经济损失让他们难以承受，但他们也害怕复工后人员聚集，工人中出现感染新冠肺炎的情况。
The economic cost of the shutdown was unbearable, but they also feared a build-up of workers once they returned to work and a new outbreak of crowding pneumonia among workers.
在东部某省拥有两家工厂的杜先生就是如此。
This is the case of Mr. Du, who owns two factories in an eastern province.
按原计划，两家工厂都应该在2月3日恢复生产，但出于疫情防控的需要，省内规定各类企业不早于2月10日前复工。
Both plants were scheduled to resume production on February 3, but the province has ordered companies of all types to resume work no earlier than February 10 because of the need for epidemic prevention and control.
此外，工厂里有不少来自湖北省的员工，其中还有两名管理人员。
In addition, the factory has many employees from Hubei province, including two administrators.
2月10日预计只能有部分员工到岗，生产只能逐步恢复。
On 10 February, it was expected that only part of the staff would be on duty and production would resume only gradually.
“现在的心情很矛盾。
"I'm in a contradictory mood.
我希望安全开工，晚几天没关系，如果冒风险，宁愿不开。
I want to start safely, a couple of days later, but if I take the risk, I'd rather not.
”他对《财经》记者说。
'he told Caijing.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
有序复工与做好防疫，一个都不能少！。
Orderly resume work and do a good job of epidemic prevention, not less than one!
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "有序复工与做好防疫，一个都不能少！";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Orderly reinstated and vaccinated, none less!; & quot;
var msg_desc = "2月10日这个周一，中国多个省市迎来了春节后第一个工作日，虽然比原定假期已推迟一周，但政府、企业和个人所面临的疫情防控压力都不小。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
当前，湖北省仍需要着力抓好疫情防控，其他地区也需要做好防控的同时有序恢复生产";。
At present, Hubei province still needs to focus on epidemic prevention and control, and other areas need to do a good job of prevention and control while restoring production and control in an orderly manner.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
