证券业战“疫”：办公精简，线上业务大爆发。
Securities industry war "epidemic": office streamlining, the outbreak of online business.
张欣培 王颖。
Zhang Xinpei Wang Ying.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_在疫情影响下，券商营业部几乎暂停了所有现场交易和现场业务办理。
Under the influence of the epidemic, the brokerage department has suspended almost all on-site transactions and on-site business operations.
尽管现场业务受到限制，但线上业务迎来了大爆发_文|《财经》记者张欣培王颖编辑 | 陆玲A股开市第一周，在疫情影响下，各家券商都进行了最精简办公。
Despite the restrictions on on-site business, the online business has seen a surge in business. & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
“我们部门实行了1-2个人轮岗，其余员工全部在家办公。
"Our department has 1-2 people on rotation and the rest of the staff work from home.
”上海一家券商人士表示。
A Shanghai brokerage was quoted as saying.
根据记者了解，几乎所有券商在必要的人员必须去公司办公外，其余大部分员工均保持着居家办公状态。
According to the reporter, almost all brokers have to go to the company office in addition to the necessary personnel, the majority of the remaining employees are kept at home office.
不过，这样的状态即将结束。
However, this state of affairs is coming to an end.
2月10日，广发证券要求所有员工正常上班；2月14日，方正证券也将全员上班。
On Feb. 10, Guangfa Securities required all employees to report to work normally, and on Feb. 14 Founder Securities will also be at full capacity.
尽管遇到了疫情特殊情况，但券商的经纪业务并未受到较大影响。
Despite the special circumstances of the epidemic, brokerage brokerage business has not been greatly affected.
在现场业务受到限制下，线上业务迎来了大爆发。
In the field business constraints, the online business ushered in a major explosion.
国泰君安数据显示，平时线上业务65%-70%，但是在上周，这一比例超过了90%。
The average online business is 65% to 70%, but last week, that's more than 90%, according to Guotai Junan.
线上交易客户数占比99%，交易额超过了97%。
Online trading accounts for 99% of customers, with transactions exceeding 97%.
国泰君安客服中心开市首日来电总量增长为平日的2.8倍，线上人工服务量为平日3.5倍，灵犀客服单日累计服务客户数约4.8万人次，回答客户问题超7万次。
The total number of calls from Guotai Junan Customer Service Center in the first day of the opening day increased 2.8 times as much as usual.
随着疫情的爆发，各家券商都在力推线上业务。
With the outbreak of the epidemic, brokerage firms are pushing the online business.
“经纪业务方面，临柜业务受到影响，但整体上来说并没有受到太大影响。
"The brokerage business has been affected, but not as a whole.
”广州一家营业部负责人向《财经》记者表示。
The head of a business department in Guangzhou told Caijing.
除经纪业务外，投行业务、研究所以及销售业务也基本以线上为主。
In addition to brokerage business, investment banking, research institutes and sales operations are also basically on-line.
实际上，在疫情爆发之后，券商不仅有效提升投资者证券服务能力，也通过捐款、捐物支援疫区。
In fact, after the outbreak of the epidemic, brokers not only effectively enhance the capacity of investors in securities services, but also through donations, donations to support epidemic areas.
作为金融机构，券商也积极发挥专业优势提供融资支持。
As a financial institution, securities firms also actively play a professional advantage to provide financing support.
例如，长江证券、兴业证券、国海证券等通过发行战“疫”专题债，助力防控疫情。
For example, Changjiang Securities, Societe Generale Securities, Guohai Securities and other issues through the issue of "epidemic" special debt, to help prevent and control the epidemic.
此外，国君资管、广发资管、兴证资管等还通过认购旗下产品提振市场信心。
In addition, Guojun management, wide-spread investment management, interest card management and so on through subscription to its products to boost market confidence.
办公保持最精简状态在经历一次延期开市后，2月3日，中国A股正式开市，各家券商也正式返工。
Office Keeping the Most Streamlined After a delay in the opening of the market, February 3, China's A shares officially opened, the brokerage also formally rework.
不过，由于受到疫情影响，券商基本上保持了最佳精简状态，采取轮岗制，非必要人员在家办公。
However, due to the impact of the epidemic, brokerage basically maintained the best state of streamlining, the adoption of rotation, non-essential staff work from home.
“2月3日-7日，总部除必须返回办公地上班的部分员工外，其他员工原则上在家办公。
"From 3 to 7 February, the headquarters staff will, in principle, work from home, with the exception of some staff who will have to return to work at the premises.
”广发证券相关人士表示。
People involved in Guangfa Securities said.
方正证券亦告诉《财经》记者，2月3日起，除因工作需要必须现场办公外，采用灵活办公模式正常上班。
Founder Securities also told Caijing that from February 3, flexible working mode would be adopted, except for the on-site work necessitated by the need of work.
有现场办公人员的总部部门应制定轮动方案，两组人员交替现场办公。
Headquarters departments with field staff shall develop rotation programmes, with two groups of personnel working alternately in the field.
“2月9日开始，公司开始实行现场和非现场等差异化办公方式及轮岗、考勤。
"Starting February 9, the company began to implement on-site and off-site and other differentiated office methods, rotation, attendance.
对于必须现场办公的岗位，岗位员工设立AB岗，确保工作的持续性。
For the position which must work in the field, the staff of the post set up AB post to ensure the continuity of work.
”国金证券相关人士向《财经》记者表示。
Gold Securities Correspondents told Caijing.
不过，为了确保交易的正常进行，与交易、投资有关的部门大部分员工早已正式返岗。
However, in order to ensure the normal operation of the transaction, most of the staff of the departments concerned with transactions and investments have been formally returned to work.
“上周，与交易有关的部门，如IT、清算等部门，已经有充足的人员到现场办公，保障公司系统和客户工作的平稳。
"Last week, departments involved in transactions, such as IT and clearing, had enough people on site to keep systems and customers working smoothly," he said.
”国金证券相关负责人表示。
Guojin Securities said the relevant officials.
东吴证券也针对假期调整造成的系统变更，实施员工强制备份机制，对于可能影响业务连续性的重要岗位和工作，明确备岗人员及顶岗人员。
Soochow Securities also implemented a mandatory backup mechanism for staff in response to the system changes caused by the leave adjustment, and identified the personnel to be posted and the personnel to be laid off for key positions and jobs that could affect business continuity.
记者了解到，几乎所有券商的营业部办公人员都按照最小化原则配置，除轮岗人员外，营业部其他员工居家办公。
Reporters learned that almost all brokerage business office staff are allocated in accordance with the principle of minimization, in addition to staff rotation, the business department other staff from home.
对于疫区返工人员，券商要求在家办公14天无异常后方可返回。
For reworkers in the affected areas, brokers are required to work from home for 14 days without abnormalities before returning.
“开市我们就在岗了，不过我们也主要采取轮岗制，主要是居家在线办公的形式。
"We are on duty in Kaesong, but we also mainly adopt the system of rotation, mainly in the form of on-line office at home.
严格遵守相关防疫规定，在做好防疫工作的前提下，安排好业务相关工作。
Strictly observe the relevant epidemic prevention provisions, under the premise of doing a good job in epidemic prevention, arrangement of business-related work.
”广州一家营业部负责人告诉记者。
Guangzhou is responsible for a business department told reporters.
然而，接下来的挑战或在于未来两周，一些券商陆续全员返工。
However, the next challenge may lie in the next two weeks, a number of brokerage full rework.
根据广发证券通知，2月10日，所有员工全部正常上班。
According to the Guangfa Securities notice, February 10, all employees are normal to work.
方正证券也将在2月14日全部返工。
Founder Securities will also be fully reworked on February 14.
在疫情尚未减缓之下，大规模人员上班如何避免风险？对此，广发证券表示，公司将强化办公营业场所的卫生防控，进入公司办公场地以及营业场所的员工以及外来人员均要求统一佩戴口罩，经检测体温正常后方可进入。
In response to questions about how to avoid risk when large-scale workers arrive at work before the epidemic slows down, Guangfa Securities said it would step up sanitary controls at its offices, staff entering the company's offices and business premises, as well as foreign workers, and require them to wear masks with normal body temperature before entering.
要求所有办公场地及营业场所增加消毒频次以及加强通风换气，原则上不在办公地以及营业场所举行现场会议，减少人群聚集，利用视频会议、电话会议、邮件等方式进行交流，切实保障员工以及投资者的健康安全。
All office and business premises are required to increase the frequency of disinfection and ventilation, in principle not to hold on-site meetings at the office and business premises, reduce crowds, use videoconferencing, teleconferencing, mail and other means of communication to ensure the health and safety of employees as well as investors.
东吴证券则告诉《财经》记者，公司紧急采购口罩并要求统一佩戴，加强办公场所和营业网点的卫生防疫防护保障。
Dongwu Securities told Caijing, the company emergency procurement of masks and requirements to wear uniform, strengthen the office and business network sanitary and epidemiological protection.
全体员工暂停赴武汉及周边地区出差等。
All staff to Wuhan and surrounding areas on business.
线上业务大爆发在疫情影响下，券商营业部几乎暂停了所有现场交易和现场业务办理。
The outbreak of online business in the impact of the epidemic, brokerage business department almost suspended all on-site transactions and business operations.
“在财富管理这条线上，产品销售情况不是很理想，不是很容易推动。
"Wealth management is a line where product sales are not ideal and it's not easy to push.
尤其是私募类产品销售，基本处于停滞状态。
In particular, the sale of private equity products, basically at a standstill.
”上海一家资管人士告诉记者，主要原因在于现场业务受到限制。
One Shanghai official told reporters that the main reason was the limited nature of the on-site business.
“首次开通创业板、融资融券、大宗交易权限等一定要临柜办理，要进行双录对客户充分提示风险。
"For the first time to open GEM, Margin, bulk trading authority, such as must be handled in the cabinet, to double-record the risk to customers.
但是现在临柜业务受到很大限制。
But now there are big limits on the counter business.
”上述资管人士表示。
The person in charge said.
“整体上看经纪业务受到影响并不大，因为很多业务都可以线上进行，但确实有部分业务需要临柜办理。
"Brokerage as a whole is not much affected because a lot of business can be done online, but there are parts of the business that do need to be handled from there."
通过这次特殊情况，期待以后更多的业务可以线上放开，在线上直接办理。
Through this special case, I hope that more business can be released online and processed directly online.
”广州一家营业部负责人表示。
The head of a business department in Guangzhou said.
事实上，除部分临柜业务受到影响外，此次疫情并没有对经纪业务产生较大影响。
In fact, in addition to some of the cabinet business affected, the outbreak did not have a major impact on brokerage business.
国泰君安人士向记者表示，公司各项业务平稳有序，业务量和平时总体持平。
Guotai Junan people to reporters, the company's business smooth and orderly, business volume and generally flat.
不过线上业务比例大幅提升。
But the proportion of online business has risen sharply.
国泰君安数据显示，平时线上业务65%-70%，但是在上周这一比例超过了90%。
The average online business is 65% to 70%, according to Guotai Junan, but last week it exceeded 90%.
线上交易客户数占比99%，交易额超过了97%。
Online trading accounts for 99% of customers, with transactions exceeding 97%.
开市至今，国泰君安每日君弘在线访问人次约20万。
Since the opening of the market, Guotai Junan daily Grand online visitors about 200,000.
“开市第一天，网金部运营达到了高峰，不过第二天有所恢复。
"On the first day of trading, Netting reached its peak, but recovered the next day.
”上海一家大型券商人士告诉记者。
A leading Shanghai brokerage told reporters.
在疫情之下，券商经纪业务正全面转为线上。
Under the epidemic, brokerage business is fully into line.
由于券商之前在金融科技上的投入，目前个人大部分业务均可通过线上方式办理。
As a result of previous investment in financial technology brokerage, the majority of individual business can now be handled online.
记者了解到，多家券商已经暂停了现场交易与业务办理服务。
Reporters learned that a number of brokers have suspended on-site transactions and business services.
例如，国金证券自2月3日起，所有分支机构暂不提供现场交易和现场业务办理服务。
For example, since February 3, all branches of China Gold Securities will not provide on-site trading and on-site business services.
客户所有交易均可通过佣金宝APP、网上交易客户端等非现方式进行。
Customer all transactions can be through the commission treasure APP, online trading client and other non-cash methods.
国泰君安、光大证券、海通证券等数十家券商发布了非现场办理业务指南。
Guotai Junan, Everbright Securities, Haitong Securities and dozens of securities companies issued off-site business guidelines.
各家券商也开始了线上业务服务大比拼。
Brokers are also starting to compete for online business services.
多家券商通过提升交易体验、丰富线上服务类型、拓宽线上引流等多方面提高服务。
Brokerage through the promotion of trading experience, enrich the type of online services, broaden online drainage and other areas to improve services.
国泰君安推出“三端一微”平台可以实现全品种线上交易和网上开户、各类业务权限开通等40余项在线业务办理。
Guotai Junan launched "three end one micro" platform can achieve a full range of online transactions and online account opening, various types of business permission to open more than 40 online business transactions.
兴业证券网上营业厅“优理宝”列出了50项覆盖主流业务场景的在线业务；海通证券表示旗下e海通财app支持监管允许的所有线上办理业务；中信建投除了通过APP及CRM系统达成线上业务办理外，还同时提供了5000名专业顾问7x24小时的“优问”在线咨询、人工专家投顾和智能投顾服务等。
SocGen Online Business Office lists 50 online services covering mainstream business scenarios; Haitong Securities says its e-Hatcom Fapp supports all online transactions allowed by regulation; and Citic Capital offers 5,000 professional consultants 7x24 hours of online consulting, manual specialist care and intelligent care services, in addition to online transactions through APP and CRM systems.
实际上，在业内人士看来，此次危机甚至可以进一步推动券商财富管理转型。
In fact, in the industry's view, the crisis can even further promote the transformation of wealth management securities.
“首先，这次疫情进一步推动非现场交易和业务办理，对于传统实体营业部来说，客观上进一步弱化了证券营业部的运营职能；其次，本次疫情的出现，进一步推动客户对于非现场交易和服务的认可。
"First of all, the epidemic further promoted off-site transactions and business operations, for the traditional entity business department, objectively further weakened the operation functions of the securities business department; secondly, the emergence of this epidemic, further promote customers' recognition of off-site transactions and services.
最后，通过本次疫情，‘线上获客’方式将得以进一步强化。
Finally, through this outbreak, 'online access' will be further strengthened.
”前证券行业资深人士黄华认为，越来越多的证券从业人员使用各种互联网工具和客户连接沟通交流，线上获客方式得以进一步强化，传统实体证券营业部的获客能力进一步被替代。
Huang Hua, a former securities industry veteran, believes that as more and more securities professionals use a variety of Internet tools and customer connections, online access is being strengthened and the customer capacity of traditional physical securities businesses is being further replaced.
记者了解到，除经纪业务外，投行业务、销售交易业务等也几乎全部转为线上。
Reporters learned that in addition to brokerage business, investment banking business, sales transactions, and so on almost all turned online.
国泰君安启动了“现场轮岗+在线办公”双重工作模式，为保证项目的顺利发行，也对发行中心实行了半隔离措施。
Guotai Junan launched the "on-site rotation + on-line office" dual mode of work, to ensure the smooth release of the project, the distribution center also implemented semi-isolation measures.
在研究所方面，各家券商也取消了各种现场路演和实地调研活动等直接面对面交流活动方式，采取差异化线上办公模式。
In the Institute, brokers have also eliminated various on-site road shows and field research activities, such as direct face-to-face exchanges, adopt a differentiated online office model.
方正证券表示，目前方正证券研究所全部远程办公，研究服务全面线上化。
Founder Securities said that at present Founder Securities Institute all telecommuting, research services on the overall line.
多举措战“疫”作为金融机构，在疫情发生后，证券公司也在积极履行社会责任，通过多种渠道提供支援。
As a financial institution, securities companies are also actively fulfilling their social responsibilities and providing support through various channels.
根据中证协发布的数据，截至2020年2月5日12时，共有78家证券公司（含子公司、股东单位等）先后捐赠资金及紧缺物资超过4.77亿元。
As of 12: 00 p.m. on February 5, 2020, 78 securities companies (including subsidiaries, shareholders, etc.) had donated more than 477 million yuan in funds and materials in short supply, according to data released by the China Securities Association.
此次统计新增14家会员单位捐赠资金或物资超过4700万元。
The statistics show that 14 new members have donated more than 47 million yuan in funds or materials.
除积极履行社会责任投身疫区公益捐赠外，证券行业按照证监会有关通知要求，发挥服务融资专业优势，妥善维护系统运营安全，着力加强投资者服务，积极行动提振市场信心，多措并举。
In addition to actively fulfilling its social responsibility to participate in the public welfare donation in epidemic areas, the securities industry, in accordance with the notice requirements of the CSRC, gives full play to its professional advantages in service financing, properly safeguards the system's operational safety, focuses on strengthening investor services, and takes proactive measures to boost market confidence.
2月1日，中国人民银行、证监会等五部委联合印发《关于进一步强化金融支持防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的通知》，出台30条措施强化金融支持疫情防控。
On February 1, five ministries, including the People's Bank of China and the Securities and Futures Commission, jointly issued the Notice on Further Strengthening Financial Support for the Prevention and Control of New Coronavirus Infectious Pneumonia, and issued 30 measures to strengthen financial support for disease prevention and control.
证监会债券部近日发布通知称,延长公司债券许可批复时限，支持防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情，沪深交易所也开设“绿色通道”，积极推动湖北地区、医疗等重点行业有疫情相关融资需求的企业发行债券或者推动有批文额度待发行的企业融资。
The bond department of the CSRC recently issued a notice to extend the period for approval of corporate bonds to support the prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia. The Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges have also opened a "green passage" to actively promote enterprises with epidemic-related financing needs in Hubei region and medical and other key industries to issue bonds or promote enterprise financing with approval quota.
2月3日，由民生银行和长江证券担任主承销商的湖北省联合发展投资集团有限公司10亿元债权融资计划获备案通过，募集资金将优先用于疫情防控。
On February 3, the 1 billion yuan debt financing plan of Hubei Joint Development Investment Group Co. Ltd., with Minsheng Bank and Changjiang Securities as its main underwriters, was approved.
2月4日，由长江证券担任主承销商的武汉车都四水共治项目管理有限公司10亿元绿色项目收益公司债是疫情发生后湖北省首单获批的创新品种公司债券项目。
On February 4, Wuhan Che Du Four Water Management Co. Ltd., with Changjiang Securities as its main underwriter, received 1 billion yuan in green project revenue.
此外，兴业证券与国海证券也先后承销发行战“疫”专题债券。
In addition, Societe Generale Securities and Guohai Securities have also been underwriting the issue of "epidemic" thematic bonds.
2月6日，兴业证券承销发行国家开发银行2020年战“疫”专题债券8000万元，所筹资金主要用于疫情防控相关的重要医用物资和重要生活物资的生产经营和供应保障领域的贷款投放；2月7日，由国海证券担任主承销商，广西建工集团有限责任公司在交易所发行全国首单总额5亿元的战疫专项公司债券，募集资金将用于广西地区疫情防控应急医院及物资厂房建设等。
On February 6, the Societe Generale Securities underwrote and issued 80 million yuan of special bonds for the 2020 war of the China Development Bank. The funds raised were mainly used to finance the production, operation and supply guarantee of important medical supplies and vital living materials related to the prevention and control of the epidemic.
在A股大幅震荡下，一些券商机构通过认购旗下产品提振市场信心。
A-share shock, a number of brokerage institutions by subscribing to its products to boost market confidence.
截至2月6日，四家证券公司资管子公司宣布以自有资金配置旗下产品，合计出资不低于4.7亿元。
As of February 6, four securities companies announced that they would allocate their products with their own funds, with a total investment of not less than 470 million yuan.
其中，国泰君安资管拟出资3亿元自购旗下权益类产品，东方证券资管拟出资1亿元自购旗下10只偏股基金和集合资管计划，广发证券资管将新增5000万元自购旗下混合型集合资管计划，累计跟投旗下参照公募基金运作的集合资产管理计划超过3亿元，兴业证券资管已运用自有资金约2000万元认购旗下权益类产品。
Among them, Cathay Pacific Capital Management will contribute $300 million to buy its own equity products, while Oriental Securities will contribute $100 million to its 10-share and pooled management plans, adding more than $50 million to its pooled asset management plan with reference to public-equity funds.
国君资管表示，A股趋势上涨的核心逻辑在长期看均不会受到疫情扰动，此次疫情带来的恐慌下跌可能带来2020年最重要的择时机会。
Mr Guojun said the core logic behind the rising A-share trend would not be disturbed by the epidemic in the long run, and that the downturn in panic brought about by the outbreak was likely to present the most important timing opportunity in 2020.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click Here for more information about the epidemic:: Archives & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and may not be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
证券业战“疫”：办公精简，线上业务大爆发。
Securities industry war "epidemic": office streamlining, the outbreak of online business.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "证券业战“疫”：办公精简，线上业务大爆发";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; office streamlining; and
var msg_desc = "在疫情影响下，券商营业部几乎暂停了所有现场交易和现场业务办理。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Brokerage's business department virtually suspended all on-site trading and on-site operations because of the epidemic.
尽管现场业务受到限制，但线上业务迎来了大爆发";。
Despite the restrictions on its on-site business, its online business has come to AT & quot;.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
