数说疫情0209：洪峰通过，见“顶”可期。
Count 0209: Flood Peak pass, see "top" can be expected.
徐进。
Xu Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
文 |《财经》数据研究员 徐进编辑 | 谢丽容元宵节过完了，再下来是“龙抬头”。
At the end of last night's Lantern Festival, Xu Jin, a Caijing data researcher, came down as "Dragon Head."
1、 今日概况2月8日0—24时，31个省（自治区、直辖市）和新疆生产建设兵团报告，新增确诊病例2656例（湖北2147例），新增重症病例87例（湖北52例），新增死亡病例89例（湖北81例，河南2例，河北、黑龙江、安徽、山东、湖南、广西各1例），新增疑似病例3916例（湖北2067例）。
1. Today's survey At 0-24 p.m. Feb. 8, 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps reported 2,656 new confirmed cases (2,147 in Hubei), 87 new serious cases (52 in Hubei) and 89 new deaths (81 in Hubei, 2 in Henan and 1 each in Hebei, Heilongjiang, Anhui, Shandong, Hunan and Guangxi), with 3,916 new suspected cases (Hubei 2067).
2、 洪峰正在通过，头部已经清晰追踪疫情数据以来，小编今天的心情终于不那么沉重了。
2, the flood peak is passing, the head has been clearly tracking the epidemic data, the mood is not so heavy today.
非湖北地区新增病例继续下降，头部和右肩已然清晰明朗。
Non-Hubei new cases continue to decline, head and right shoulder has been clear.
湖北数据则走出双头形态，接下来有望确认右肩。
Hubei data out of the dual-headed form, next expected to confirm the right shoulder.
武汉数据今天给出了惊喜。
Wuhan data gave a surprise today.
鉴于中央赴湖北指导组和湖北省领导近两日一再强调尽快实现“应收尽收、一个不漏”，我们可以推测武汉及周边城市“堰塞湖”正在得到化解。
As the central guidance group to Hubei and the leadership of Hubei Province have repeatedly stressed in the past two days that "every receivable, no leakage" should be realized as soon as possible, we can assume that Wuhan and surrounding cities "Yan Sehu" are being resolved.
洪峰主体很可能已于2月7日通过。
The main body of the flood peak is likely to have passed on February 7.
武汉数据也因此有望走出双头形态。
Wuhan data is therefore expected to come out of double-headed form.
湖北新增在院治疗人数2月7日跳升随即于8日回落亦可印证此点。
Hubei new hospital treatment of the number of people jumped February 7 and then fell back on the 8th can also confirm this point.
另一件值得高兴的事是湖北卫健委网站开始发布疑似病例存量：”现有疑似病例23638人，其中集中隔离12928人。
Another welcome development is that the Hubei Weijian committee's website has begun to release a list of suspected cases: "There are 23,638 suspected cases, 12,928 of which are concentrated in quarantine.
当日排除1128人。
1,128 persons were excluded on the same day.
”寥寥数语，信息量很大。
In a few words, information is abundant.
不少网友曾问我们为何不分析疑似病例，其实主要是因为看不到湖北疑似病例的存量数据，小编难为无米之炊。
Many netizens have asked us why we do not analyze suspected cases, in fact, because we do not see the Hubei suspected cases of stock data, small compilation is difficult to have rice.
现在我们终于清楚了全国疑似病例存量（待排查量）中有多少在湖北。
Now we know at last how much of the national stock of suspected cases is in Hubei.
至于湖北卫健委网站为何一直没有发布这一重要疫情信息，小编不愿妄测。
As to why Hubei Wei Jiancheng website has not issued this important information about the epidemic, small editors do not want to delude.
但现在发布，足以让我们感受到信心和勇气！也让我们在接下来的疫情期可以掌握更多信息。
But now release, enough to let us feel confidence and courage! Also let us have more information in the next epidemic period.
3、确诊病例增长率预计10-15天后归零湖北增长率一举下降到10%以下令人鼓舞。
3.It is encouraging that the rate of increase of confirmed cases is expected to drop to below 10% in Hubei province after 10-15 days.
非湖北地区增长率进一步下探。
The growth rate of non-Hubei area is further explored.
我们对非湖北数据进行分段拟合，同时参照2003年SARS的数据形态，推测出其增长率降为零的时点应该在2月19日-21日。
We have segmented the non-Hubei data and extrapolated that the growth rate should be reduced to zero by 19-21 February with reference to the 2003 SARS data form.
同样，我们推测如果没有大的意外，湖北实现零增长的大概率时点应该在2月20日-2月25日。
Similarly, we speculate that, had there not been a major accident, Hubei would have achieved zero growth by February 20-25.
有网友指出分母增大会导致增长率过快下降的假象。
Some netizens pointed out that the denominator will cause the growth rate to fall too fast illusion.
谢谢！这个提醒很重要。
Thank you! This reminder is very important.
增长率是重要分析指标，其特点就是将分子分母的信息同时涵盖。
Growth rate is an important analysis index, which is characterized by the inclusion of numerator denominator information.
导致增长率过快下降假象的情况一般在分子变动相对分母过大时（如疫情早期）比较明显。
The conditions that lead to false declines in growth rate are usually obvious when molecular changes are too large relative to denominators, as in the early stages of an epidemic.
随着疫情发展，分母变大，分子变小，这个影响就趋于弱化。
As the epidemic progresses, the denominator becomes larger and the molecules become smaller, the effect tends to weaken.
但是在对增长率进行线性拟合时对此偏差必须注意校正。
However, this deviation must be corrected in linear fitting of the growth rate.
因此做数据拟合时我们没有采用早期数据。
So we did not use the early data when we did the data fitting.
同时我们采用分段的方式降低其影响。
At the same time, we adopted a segmented approach to reduce its impact.
4、待排查疑似病例存量补上湖北今天我们补上湖北的这个点，同时也补上非湖北的。
To be cleared up the stock of suspected cases to make up Hubei today we fill this point in Hubei, but also to make up for non-Hubei.
5、密切接触者追踪力度和存量注：密切接触者追踪系数=每日追踪的密切接触者增量/每日新增确诊病例数可以看到湖北对密切接触者追踪力度近几日有所提升。
Close Contacts Tracking Strength and Inventory Note: Close Contacts Tracking Factor = Daily Tracking Contacts Increments / Number of New Confirmed Cases per Day The tracking of close contacts in Hubei has improved in recent days.
平均每个病例追踪的密切接触者由3.3人左右上升到4.6人。
The average number of close contacts per case was around 3.3 to 4.6.
鉴于湖北新增病例依然很多，能做到这一点实属不易。
Given that there are still many new cases in Hubei, it is not easy to do so.
尚在接受医学观察人数方面，今天的亮点是非湖北地区出现显著下降。
In terms of the number of medical observers, the bright spot today was a significant decline in non-Hubei areas.
另一方面湖北略有增长，再次印证隔离、检测、收治能力提升。
On the other hand, Hubei slightly increased, again proof isolation, detection, treatment capacity improvement.
6、非湖北地区新增治愈人数接近新增确诊人数随着疫情进展，治愈人数远超病死人数已无悬念。
6. The number of newly diagnosed cases in non-Hubei areas is close to the number of newly confirmed cases.
今天起我们将新增治愈人数纳入视野。
Today we have added the number of new healers to our vision.
图9可以看到非湖北地区日趋下降的新增确诊病例与逐渐上升的新增治愈人数正相向而行。
Figure 9 shows that the decreasing number of newly diagnosed cases in non-Hubei areas is in line with the increasing number of newly diagnosed patients.
让我们共同期待第一个“黄金交叉”的到来！湖北非湖北病死率均有微弱回升。
Let us look forward to the first "golden cross"! Hubei non-Hubei disease mortality rate has slightly recovered.
小结：武汉“堰塞湖”化解关乎“抗疫”全局。
Summary: Wuhan "Yan Sehu" to resolve the overall situation related to "anti-epidemic."
此战结束，大局即可反转。
When the war is over, the situation can be reversed.
我们期待接下来几天的数据确认。
We look forward to data validation in the next few days.
虽说此时恐怕言“顶”尚早，小编已按捺不住要在明天尝试描述一下“顶”的形态。
Although at this time I'm afraid it is too early to speak, the editor can't resist trying to describe the "top" shape tomorrow.
同胞们，再接再厉！▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Keep Up the Good News!! This article is an original for Caijing Magazine and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
数说疫情0209：洪峰通过，见“顶”可期。
Count 0209: Flood Peak pass, see "top" can be expected.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "数说疫情0209：洪峰通过，见“顶”可期";。
var msg _ title = & quot; counted at & quot; 0209: Flood passed; see top & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "武汉“堰塞湖”化解关乎“抗疫”全局。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Wuhan "Yan Sehu" addressed the overall situation of "anti-epidemic."
此战结束，大局即可反转。
When the war is over, the situation can be reversed.
我们期待接下来几天的数据确认。
We look forward to data validation in the next few days.
虽说此时恐怕言“顶”尚早，小编已按捺不住要在明天尝试描述一下“顶”的形态。
Although at this time I'm afraid it is too early to speak, the editor can't resist trying to describe the "top" shape tomorrow.
同胞们，再接再厉！";。
My fellow citizens, try again!;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
