李铁：疫情较轻的城市应及时复工开业。
Li Tie: The city with a low epidemic should resume operation in time.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 财经E法。
The following article comes from the financial E method.
Author 李铁。
Author Li Tie.
财经E法。
Financial E-Law.
财经E法是脱胎于《财经》杂志的原创内容品牌，我们关注互联网行业中的法治、治理和伦理话题。
Finance E is an original content brand created by Caijing magazine. We focus on the rule of law, governance and ethics in the Internet industry.
。
.
_建议疫情较轻的城市管理者要有敢于承担风险的意识，最大化提高科学防控方法和手段，自行决定何时复工和开业，从而降低经济和社会风险，恢复经济的正常平稳运行_文 | 李铁从1月23日武汉封城开始，已经过去半个多月了。
It is recommended that city managers with a low epidemic should have the courage to take risks, maximize methods and means of scientific control, and decide when to resume work and operations, thereby reducing economic and social risks and restoring the normal and smooth functioning of the economy.
新冠肺炎疫情的防控实现了全国总动员，付出了巨大的经济和社会代价。
The prevention and control of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic achieved national mobilization at great economic and social cost.
在对重点城市和地区进行加强防范的同时，也出现了一些疫情并不严重的城市，盲目参照疫情严重地区，采取封城和停业等防控措施。
While the key cities and regions to strengthen the prevention, but also some of the epidemic is not serious cities, blind reference to the epidemic in the region, and take closure and other prevention and control measures.
有些城市确诊病例仅仅是个位数，但是防控措施堪比疫情灾区。
Some cities confirmed cases are in the single digits, but control measures are comparable to those in the affected areas.
这种盲目恐慌和攀比的心理，原因是一些干部没有底数，没有使用科学的分析方法，反而过份放大疫情影响，带来对经济的严重损害。
The reason for this blind panic and comparison is that some cadres do not know how to count and do not use scientific methods of analysis. Instead, they exaggerate the impact of the epidemic and cause serious damage to the economy.
一些经济学家预判，如果继续全国总动员，全部城市和乡村停业停工，中国的GDP将会下降2-3个百分点。
Some economists predict that China's GDP will fall by 2-3 percentage points if the country continues to mobilize and all cities and villages are shut down.
因此在防疫战役的关键时期，如何区分疫情的重点地区和非重点地区，采取因地制宜的科学防控措施，及时要求疫情较轻城市和地区复工和开业，对于降低疫情引发的经济和社会成本是十分必要的。
Therefore, in the crucial period of the epidemic prevention campaign, how to distinguish between key and non-key areas of the epidemic, adopt measures for scientific prevention and control adapted to local conditions, and promptly demand the resumption of work and the opening up of cities and regions with relatively low epidemics are necessary to reduce the economic and social costs of the epidemic.
目前，全国除重点城市和疫区之外，疫情都得到了控制，新增确诊病例在武汉之外的地区连续三天出现了下降。
At present, the epidemic has been brought under control in China, except in key cities and epidemic areas, with new confirmed cases falling for three days in a row outside Wuhan.
1月20日－2月7日新增确诊病例数量变化情况如何看待疫情的传播，需要对疫情科学地分析，不仅要在医学层面，而且更要在社会危机治理方面，了解疫情发生及传播的规律，进而制定更为合理的战略方案。
How the number of newly confirmed cases changes between January 20 and February 7 How the spread of the epidemic is perceived requires a scientific analysis of the epidemic, not only at the medical level, but also in the management of social crises, to understand the patterns of occurrence and spread of the epidemic and to formulate more rational strategic plans.
疫情的风险重点在两个方面，一个是即期的医学风险，涉及到传播的范围，确诊的病例，可治愈的人数和如何通过医学手段降低死亡人数和降低传播风险。
The risk of the outbreak focuses on two areas: immediate medical risks, which relate to the extent of transmission, the number of cases diagnosed, the number that can be cured and how to reduce the number of deaths and the risk of transmission through medical means.
另一个是为了疫情防控可能承担的经济社会风险，因为这些风险需要全社会来付出，并且可能对未来的经济社会发展造成巨大的困难和压力。
Another is the economic and social risks that can be assumed for the prevention and control of the epidemic, as these risks need to be borne by society as a whole and can create enormous difficulties and pressures for future economic and social development.
应考虑划分不同疫情级别区域疫情主要是从人传人开始的，形成大面积传播的主要原因在于中国的人口流动性就业，而且正好与春节期间人口流动的高峰期结合在一起，使得整个疫情的传播被放大到全国，甚至影响到国际。
It should be considered that different epidemic levels of regional epidemics mainly started from human-to-human transmission. The main reason for the large-scale spread lies in the fact that China's mobile employment is combined with the peak period of population movement during the Spring Festival, which has caused the spread of the epidemic to be magnified nationwide and even internationally.
按照初始的判断，疫情传播的危险点应该是春节前后。
According to the initial judgment, the danger point of epidemic spread should be around Spring Festival.
其一是返乡过节度假高峰，也是安排假期旅游和其他聚会活动的高峰。
One is to return home for the holiday rush, but also to arrange holiday travel and other party activities peak.
1月10日-1月24日，武汉外流人口中，流入湖北省内城市的占比68.1%；流向湖北省外城市人数占比31.9%。
From January 10 to January 24, 68.1 percent of the Wuhan outflow went to cities in Hubei Province, and 31.9 percent to cities outside Hubei province.
这一波人口流动，把疫情从武汉和湖北带到了全国。
This wave of population movement, from Wuhan and Hubei brought the epidemic to the whole country.
其二是春节后返城，大规模的人口从返乡途中回城就业，又一次形成了人口流动的高峰。
The second is to return to the city after the Spring Festival, large-scale population from the return journey back to urban employment, once again formed the peak of population movements.
如果没有进行疫情控制，这个高峰带来的后果将会极为严重。
Without epidemic control, the consequences of this peak will be severe.
春节返城的风险已经大大降低。
The risk of returning to town during Spring Festival has been greatly reduced.
在整个春节期间，已经对疫区外流人员实行了严防死守，全面的追踪和调查，并且对疫区相关人员基本实现了全隔离。
Throughout the Spring Festival, strict precautions have been taken against the outflow of people from affected areas, comprehensive tracking and investigation, and the affected persons in the affected areas have been basically isolated.
返城就业和度假回家的人，基本来自非疫区。
Those who return to urban areas for employment or vacation come from non-affected areas.
比如，1月25日－2月7日北京、上海的迁入来源地中，来自湖北省的迁入人数占总迁入人数的比例分别是0.6%和0.7%。
From January 25 to February 7, for example, the number of immigrants from Hubei province accounted for 0.6 percent and 0.7 percent of the total respectively.
虽然人口仍会出现大规模的流动，但是风险已经大大降低。
While large-scale population movements still occur, the risks have been significantly reduced.
根据各地疫情报告，疑似病例和确诊病例的分布并不平均。
The distribution of suspected and confirmed cases according to epidemic reports is uneven.
截至2月7日24时，湖北省累计确诊病例占全国的约72.1%，新增疑似病例占全国的约49.2%。
By 2400 hours February 7, a total of 72.1 percent of cases had been diagnosed in Hubei province, and the number of new suspected cases had accounted for 49.2 percent of the total.
流入湖北和武汉的就业人口，原先的流出地承担了较大的风险。
Hubei and Wuhan of the working population, the original outflow of people to bear a greater risk.
比如，虽然武汉及相关疫区采取的封城措施较晚，但是已经流出的人口无论是患病还是未患病，都得到了严格的控制，因此全国疫情分布的现状和格局处于相对稳定的状态。
For example, although Wuhan and related epidemic areas have adopted relatively late closure measures, the outflow of people, whether sick or not, has been strictly controlled, so that the current situation and pattern of epidemic distribution throughout the country is relatively stable.
分省看，除湖北、广东、浙江三省外，其他省份确诊病例小于1000人；直辖市和地级市中，确诊病例大于500人的只有湖北省内的10座城市，100－499人的有24座城市，包括北京、上海、广州、深圳，其余城市均少于100人。
With the exception of Hubei, Guangdong and Zhejiang provinces, less than 1,000 cases have been confirmed in other provinces, while only 10 cities in Hubei Province and 24 cities with 100-499 people have been diagnosed, including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, while the remaining cities have fewer than 100.
虽然目前还有死角，但绝大部分应该是在控制范围。
Although there is still a dead end, most of it should be under control.
全国病例数最多的前100个城市中，有69%的城市增长率下降，其中26%的城市显著下降。
Of the top 100 cities with the highest number of cases in the country, 69 per cent registered a decline in urban growth, 26 per cent of which registered significant declines.
应采取城市疫情分级政策。
The urban epidemic classification policy should be adopted.
根据当前情况，其实可以根据疫情发生率、风险程度，划分为疫情等级不同的区域，针对各地的不同情况进行分类指导。
According to the current situation, it can be divided into regions with different epidemic levels according to the prevalence rate and the degree of risk.
如果区域划分明确，对于可能出现的大规模人口流动，也不必过分担心。
Nor should there be undue concern about the possibility of large-scale population movements if regional divisions are clear.
因为还有各类检测措施和社区治理措施在跟进。
Because there are also various detection measures and community governance measures follow.
有机构已经根据疫情发生的危急程度，对全国的疫情进行了分级。
Some agencies have ranked the epidemic nationwide according to the severity of the outbreak.
当然这只是按照省的分级，并没有按照城市分级。
This is, of course, classified by province and not by city.
截至2月8日19时的分省累计确诊病例分布图片来源：疫情实时动态避免采取“一刀切”政策疫情发生后，将面临两类风险，即期风险和预期风险。
By 1900 hours on February 8, the cumulative distribution of confirmed cases by province. Source: real-time epidemic dynamic avoidance of "one-size-fits-all" policy outbreak, there will be two types of risk, immediate risk and expected risk.
现在处于疫情防控形势的转化期，应该未雨绸缪，把一部分关注重点放在预期的经济社会风险中。
Now in the transformation of the situation of epidemic prevention and control, we should be prepared to pay attention to some of the expected economic and social risks.
从全国各地疫情的应对上看，其实在缺乏防疫统一指导的情况下，各地大多采取了“一刀切”政策，就是停工停业，封闭社区和道路，甚至封城。
In fact, in the absence of unified guidance on epidemic prevention, most localities have adopted a "one-size-fits-all" policy of suspending operations, sealing off communities and roads and even sealing off cities.
对于疫情重点地区，这是必须的，但是对于非重点地区，是否也要向重点地区看齐，是在防疫新形势下不得不考虑的的紧迫问题。
This is necessary for priority areas of the epidemic, but for non-priority areas, whether to align with key areas is an urgent issue to be considered in the new situation of epidemic prevention.
我们认为，地方政府领导在科学实施疫情防控的过程中，还是需要加以引导，防止在防控手段上盲目照搬疫情重点地区。
We believe that in the process of scientific implementation of disease prevention and control, local government leaders need to be guided so as to avoid blindly copying the key areas of epidemic prevention and control.
我们担心，地方官员的恐慌和不担责心理，在疫情防控的过程中不计后果，将严重放大疫情带来的预期风险，终会给国家的经济发展和社会发展带来巨大的损失。
We are concerned that the panic and lack of responsibility of local officials in the course of epidemic prevention and control will seriously magnify the expected risks of the epidemic and eventually bring huge losses to the country's economic and social development.
毕竟各种防控措施的全面实施，将影响到无数个不同类型和规模的企业，影响到各个产业和行业的发展，同时影响到人们的正常生活。
After all, the full implementation of various control measures will affect countless enterprises of different types and sizes, affect the development of industries and industries, and affect the normal life of people.
当下，全国除了集中精力防疫之外，社会的很多方面都陷入了全面停摆之中。
At the moment, in addition to the national focus on immunization, many aspects of society are in a complete standstill.
再看一下受疫情影响的其他国家和地区，包括香港和台湾地区的情况。
Consider the situation in other countries and regions affected by the epidemic, including Hong Kong and Taiwan.
日本总人口1.27亿人，目前确诊病例86个；泰国总人口约6900万，目前确诊病例25个；德国总人口8300万，目前确诊病例12个；香港和台湾人口分别是745万和2400万，而确诊病例分别是26个和17个。
With a total population of 127 million, 86 cases have been confirmed; Thailand has a total population of about 69 million, with 25 confirmed cases; Germany has a total population of 83 million and 12 confirmed cases; and Hong Kong and Taiwan have 7.45 million and 24 million respectively, with 26 and 17 confirmed cases, respectively.
虽然确诊病例相对比较少，也要看到，这些国家和地区并没有采取类似“一刀切”的防控措施。
Although the number of confirmed cases is relatively small, it should be noted that these countries and regions have not adopted similar "one-size-fits-all" prevention and control measures.
反观中国的一些地级城市，人口规模达到上百万人，确诊案例数仅仅在个位数，但仍然采取了很多极端措施。
In contrast, some of China's provincial cities, with a population of millions, have adopted extreme measures despite the fact that the number of confirmed cases is only in the single digits.
从这个意义上来说，是否应该反思应该如何借鉴国际经验？相比于世界各国，中国在各种抗灾的战时全民动员力方面，具有强大的体制优势。
In this sense, should it reflect on how to draw on international experience? China has a strong institutional advantage over countries around the world in terms of its ability to mobilize its entire population in times of war against disasters.
但是如果不计成本的无限放大，全国都向重点疫区看齐，未来可能付出的成本和社会代价也是无限的。
But if the cost of unlimited expansion, the whole country to focus on the same epidemic areas, the future may pay costs and social costs are unlimited.
也许向疫区看齐，不会出现疫情传播的风险，看似是没错和没有责任的。
Perhaps to match the epidemic area, there is no risk of the spread of the epidemic, seems to be right and not responsible.
但是一系列的问题值得探讨：未来本地的经济和社会发展带来的损失，谁来承担？为什么同样发生疫情的一些国家或地区并没有按照我们的方式采取“一刀切”的全封闭政策？我们应该借鉴哪些方面的经验，如何在科学地采取防范措施之后，尽量减少经济和社会的成本？其实很多有效的措施和方法都在实施。
But there are a number of questions that deserve to be addressed: Who will bear the cost of future local economic and social development? Why are some countries or regions that are not following our "one-size-fits-all" one-size-fits-all policies?
例如，加强对疫区全方位的支持；强化疫区相关人员的防控，强化社区治理的优越性；对疫情发生风险相对较高的地区和城市，采取必要措施进行风险防范；通过各种媒体和新闻渠道，要求全社会提高个人的自我风险防范意识等。
For example, we should strengthen all-round support to epidemic areas, strengthen the prevention and control of relevant personnel in epidemic areas and strengthen the superiority of community governance, take necessary measures to prevent risks in areas and cities where the risk of epidemics is relatively high, and request the whole society to raise individual awareness of self-risk prevention through various media and news channels.
但是，必须承认在很多方面忽视了另外一些方法和手段。
However, it must be acknowledged that other methods and instruments have been neglected in many respects.
比如，加大科技手段的使用，充分利用手机信令和互联网大数据等，对疫情地区的人口扩散和人口流动的方向进行全方位的追踪。
For example, the use of technology to make full use of mobile phone signaling and large Internet data, etc. to the epidemic area of population proliferation and the direction of population movement to carry out all-round tracking.
各地采取协同作战的方法，加强信息统筹，实现数据和信息共享。
All localities have adopted a coordinated approach to enhance information integration and achieve data and information sharing.
这些本来也是中国独有的优势，如果充分利用，可以大大降低社会成本和经济成本。
These, too, are uniquely Chinese advantages that, if fully harnessed, can significantly reduce social and economic costs.
另外，还可以通过各种医学手段进行多层次的检测，也可以采取更为细致的防护手段和方法，降低传播风险。
In addition, a variety of medical means can be used for multi-level testing, but also more detailed means and methods of protection to reduce the risk of transmission.
通过疫情的防控，可以感受到医学专家们发挥了巨大的作用，在采取全民严防的基础上，更多地通过医学专业知识影响城乡居民加强自我防范意识，进而实现全社会总动员。
Through the prevention and control of the epidemic, it can be felt that medical experts have played a great role in the adoption of strict national defense, more through medical expertise to affect the urban and rural residents to strengthen self-prevention awareness, thus achieving overall social mobilization.
但是医学专家并不是经济专家和社会专家。
But medical experts are not economic experts or social experts.
他们的重要性在医学方面，而在防范经济社会风险方面，更需要其他学科的专家和政府共同提出方法和解决方案，才有可能防范预期发生的其他经济和社会风险。
Their importance in medicine, but also in the protection against economic and social risks, requires that experts from other disciplines and Governments come together to propose approaches and solutions that make it possible to guard against other anticipated economic and social risks.
所以，在抗击新冠肺炎疫情之战中，我们亟需党中央、国务院及有关部门提出指导全国抗击疫情的意见，要求各地区各城市根据本地实际情况因地制宜地提出自身的方案，采用更为科学、人文的方法来防控疫情，以期降低经济社会成本。
Therefore, in the war against the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, we urgently need the Central Committee of the Party, the State Council and relevant departments to give guidance to the nation in fighting the epidemic, and ask cities in all regions to put forward their own plans in light of local conditions and adopt a more scientific and humanistic approach to prevent and control the epidemic, with a view to reducing economic and social costs.
例如要求疫情较轻的城市，及时复工、开业，并提供技术支持。
For example, cities with low epidemics are required to resume work, open businesses and provide technical support in a timely manner.
同时，建议各级政府的主官们要有敢于承担风险的意识，最大化的提高科学防控的方法和手段。
At the same time, it is suggested that the principal officials of all levels of government should have the courage to take risks and maximize the methods and means of scientific control.
只有干部的恐惧心理降低了，社会的过度恐慌才有可能被缓解。
Only when the fear of cadres is reduced can the excessive panic of society be alleviated.
希望在疫情并不严重并已经达到了充分防控效果的城市，在提高防控能力和手段的同时，自主及时复工、开业，恢复正常经济和社会生活。
It is hoped that in cities where the epidemic is not serious and has achieved sufficient control and prevention effects, work will resume and begin operations in a timely manner and resume normal economic and social life, while improving the capacity and means for prevention and control.
可以说，只有真正地站在以人民为中心的立场出发，才有可能从根本上解决这次新冠肺炎抗疫之战的即期风险和预期风险问题，把损失降到最低。
It can be said that only from a truly people-centred standpoint will it be possible to fundamentally address the immediate and expected risks of the Battle against SARS and minimize the losses.
作者为中国城市和小城镇改革发展中心首席经济学家，编辑：朱弢▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 黄端 duanhuang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
The writer is a chief economist with the Center for Reform and Development of Chinese Cities and Small Towns, editor Taoho Taoho. Click here to find out more about the epidemic. Huang Duanhuang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article by Caijing magazine.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李铁：疫情较轻的城市应及时复工开业。
Li Tie: The city with a low epidemic should resume operation in time.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "李铁：疫情较轻的城市应及时复工开业";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Li iron: & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "建议疫情较轻的城市管理者要有敢于承担风险的意识，最大化提高科学防控方法和手段，自行决定何时复工和开业，从而降低经济和社会风险，恢复经济的正常平稳运行";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Recommends that city managers with a low prevalence of the disease have the courage to take the risk, maximize the scientific methods and tools for control, and decide for themselves when to resume work and operations, thereby reducing economic and social risks and restoring normal and stable economic service;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
