野味消费：病毒突变的“祸根”。
Game consumption: the "bane of virus mutation".
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
SARS之后，我们以为人们对野味的消费会减少很多，没想到最近几年，这种需求又在不断增加，消费的种类也呈现不断扩大趋势。
After SARS, we thought that people's consumption of game will be reduced a lot, but in recent years, this demand is increasing, the type of consumption is also showing an expanding trend.
然而，从猎捕到运输、加工、售卖下的每个环节，也使得病毒在传播过程中不断发生变异。
However, every link from hunting to transportation, processing and sale also causes the virus to continue to mutate in the process of transmission.
记者 | 王珊 王海燕野味集散地▲▲▲武汉肺炎爆发后，许多武汉人才开始仔细打量起华南海鲜市场。
WANG SHAN Wang Hai Yan's game distribution center has seen the South China seafood market carefully since the outbreak of Wuhan Pneumonia.
这座位于武汉市江汉区发展大道207号的市场，被新华路劈成东西两区，与汉口火车站和客运中心只有几分钟的步行距离，是一个二级批发市场，周边的居民有时也会到这里买菜。
Located at 207 Jianghan Road in Wuhan city, the market is split east and west by Xinhua Road. It is only a few minutes' walk from Hankou Railway Station and Passenger Terminal Center.
如今，曾经的热闹都已经变成了静寂。
Now, once bustle has become quiet.
国家卫健委高级别专家组在1月20日的发布会上指出，武汉肺炎爆发的源头是华南海鲜市场，病毒的源头很大可能是野生动物。
The Wuhan Pneumonia outbreak has its roots in the South China seafood market, and the source of the virus is likely to be wild animals, a high-level panel of experts said on January 20.
据国家卫健委官网消息，2020年1月25日0-24时，29个省（区、市）报告新增确诊病例688例，新增重症病例87例，新增死亡病例15例，新增治愈出院病例11例，新增疑似病例1309例。
On January 25, 2020, at 0-24 hours, 29 provinces (districts and cities) reported 688 new confirmed cases, 87 new cases of serious illness, 15 new cases of death, 11 new cases of discharge and 1,309 new suspected cases.
武汉华南海鲜市场陈明是武汉人，曾经很喜欢吃野味，也开过馆子。
Wuhan South China seafood market Chen Ming is Wuhan people, once liked to eat game, also opened restaurants.
2003年非典之后，他的生意就不再做了。
After SARS in 2003, his business ceased.
他觉得这是自然界的一种报复，需要引起警惕。
He felt that it was nature's revenge and required vigilance.
陈明说吃野味的潮流兴起于上世纪90年代，最早在海南兴起，一个个乡下的小破房子，消费动辄就是几千元。
Chen Ming said the trend of eating game emerged in the 1990s, the first in Hainan, a small rural house, consumption of thousands of dollars.
吃得最多的就是眼镜王蛇，身体很长，最长有三米，毒性非常大。
Eat the most is king cobra, the body is very long, the longest three meters, very toxic.
店家会将其片成薄薄的一片，看起来跟日本刺身一样，烫好之后蘸不同的酱料，吃起来觉得很生猛。
Shoppers will slice it into a thin piece that looks like a Japanese sashimi and is then dipped in different sauces, making it feel fierce to eat.
北方野味的代表则是“飞龙汤”。
The representative of the northern game is "flying dragon soup."
“飞龙”指的是松鸡，这是一种体型比较大的珍贵飞禽，现在已经被国家列为二级保护野生动物。
"Flying dragon" refers to the grouse, a relatively large and valuable flying bird, has now been listed by the state as a secondary protected wild animal.
也有人喜欢吃野猪，野猪最讲究吃背上的一块皮，吃的人认为野猪喜欢在树上摩擦，长久以来会有松茸等各种菌菇的香味。
Some people like to eat boar, wild boar eat the back of a piece of skin, eat people think wild boar like to rub on trees, there have long been a variety of mushroom fragrance.
这两年，武汉普遍流行的野味是甲鱼和蛇。
In these two years, Wuhan popular game is turtle and snake.
在一家餐厅老板的印象里，仅是去年甲鱼店就开了不少，整个市场竞争很大。
In a restaurant owner's impression, just last year the turtle store opened a lot, the whole market competition is very large.
“我们有一道以蛇为食材的菜，几乎桌桌都会点。
"We have a snake-based dish that can be ordered almost anywhere on the table.
”这位老板告诉我们，他们用的蛇都是蛇场养的，并不是野生，“但武汉吃蛇近两年确实很流行。
"The boss told us that the snakes they use are snake farm animals, not wild ones," but Wuhan has been a real hit for the last two years.
”在陈明看来，对于吃野味的人来说，甲鱼和蛇并不够“野”——湖北森林资源丰富，野生动物品种丰富，全省共有脊椎动物851种，其中兽类118种，鸟类431种，爬行类52种，两栖类44种，鱼类206种，约占全国种类总数的19%。
According to Chen, the turtles and snakes are not "wild" enough for game eaters - Hubei is rich in forest resources and wildlife, with 851 species of vertebrates in the province, including 118 animals, 431 birds, 52 reptiles, 44 amphibians and 206 fish species, accounting for about 19 percent of the country's total.
那么，被犯罪分子和食客觊觎的品种当然不止上面说的两种。
Then, the variety that the criminal and the diner covets certainly is not only above two kinds.
网传华南海鲜市场野味价目图2018年湖北省森林公安局公布的数字指出，湖北省全年累计侦办涉野生动物类刑事案件250起，查处行政案件494起，查获非法捕猎的野生动物16123只。
Figures released by the Hubei Forest Public Security Bureau in 2018 show that in Hubei Province 250 criminal cases involving wildlife were investigated and 494 administrative cases were investigated and dealt with, and 1,6123 wild animals were found to have been illegally hunted.
为了应对盗猎，湖北组织的森林公安队伍已超过1500人。
In response to poaching, more than 1,500 members of Hubei forest police have been organized.
有20多年工作经验的江西森林公安李苏告诉我，非法盗猎的野生动物一般有两个出口，一是自我消化，另外一个则是运往外地。
Li Su, who has more than 20 years of work experience, tells me that illegal wildlife poaching generally has two outlets, one is self-digestion and the other is shipped overseas.
陈明觉得湖北本地消耗的比例并不大，“以武汉为例，武汉人餐桌上人均消费标准最高也就500元，上世纪90年代吃一顿野味算下来人均也得上千元甚至更多，武汉消费不起。
Wuhan, for example, has the highest per capita consumption standard of 500 yuan. Even counting a meal of game in the 1990s, Wuhan could not afford to spend.
”他说某种程度上来说，作为中部地区的中心城市，武汉九省通衢，是长江航运中心，拥有38座码头，是华中地区最大的交通枢纽，“很多野味都是从武汉中转到了别的地方。
In part, he said, Wuhan, the thoroughfare of nine provinces in central China, the main thoroughfare of the Yangtze River, has 38 terminals and is the largest transportation hub in central China.
其他地方的货物也会从这里中转到别的地方。
Goods from other places will also be diverted from here.
”李苏工作在江西，他说野生动物不一定卖得贵，“捕杀野生动物没有什么成本，用的只是一张网。
LiSu, who works in Jiangxi, says wild animals are not necessarily expensive. "There is no cost to kill them, they use only one net.
”他告诉我，有时也卖得便宜。
"Sometimes, he told me, they sold cheaply.
作为一名森林公安，李苏的主要职责是保护森林和野生动物资源，并进行林区的治安防范，这些年随着野生动物偷盗现象的严重，他60%以上的精力都被野生动物保护牵扯着。
As a forest police officer, Li Su's main job is to protect forests and wildlife resources and to provide security in forest areas. Over the years, he has been involved in wildlife conservation as much as 60 percent of his energy has been stolen from wild animals.
他告诉本刊，在他们查处的案件里，有许多是从湖北过来的，也有从江西运往湖北的。
He told the print, in their investigation and punishment of the case, many from Hubei, also from Jiangxi to Hubei.
“贩卖野生动物，利润很高，业人士认为其收益堪比贩毒，却成本最低。
"Wildlife trafficking is very profitable and people think it pays as much as drug trafficking, but it costs the least.
所以案件一直很猖狂。
So the case has been rampant.
”李苏说，野生动物已经形成了非常完整的产业链，捕、贩、运、销，在每个环节价格都会翻上数倍。
"He said wild animals have formed a very complete industrial chain, trapping, trafficking, transporting and selling, and the price of wild animals doubles many times at every link.
一则报道显示，比如穿山甲，在中越边境收购价格仅为几百元一只，可到了餐桌上，价格就高达近2000元一公斤，以一只穿山甲6-7公斤计算，仅一只穿山甲就能给产业链带来近万元的收益。
According to one report, the price of pangolin at the border between China and Vietnam is only a few hundred yuan, but when it comes to the table, the price is nearly 2,000 yuan a kilogram.
整个链条的终端，最终指向各地的批发市场。
The end of the chain, ultimately pointing to the wholesale market everywhere.
一位保护野生动物的志愿者告诉本刊，他曾到过广州清远一个农批市场考察，里面全部都是野生动物，“野生动物都是一车车拉到那个地方，收完了以后再分流，批发继续往外地走，不散卖，以鸟类为主，各种野鸭子。
A wildlife volunteer told the magazine that he had visited a farm-batch market in Qingyuan, Guangzhou, all of which are wild animals. "Wild animals are truckloads of wagons to that place, collect them and then redistribute them.
更野的东西必须要熟人才能购买。
The wilder things must be purchased by acquaintances.
”另一名志愿者曾去过外地一个海鲜批发市场，里面甚至有一个野味区，67家的商铺专门卖野生动物的腊制品，也有少量的活体。
Another volunteer had been to an off-site wholesale seafood market, where there was even a game section, with 67 stores specializing in the sale of wax products from wild animals and a small number of live animals.
他告诉我们，从他的判断来说，某种意义上，最先出现疫情的华南海鲜市场也像是这样一个终端市场，只是规模上可能小一些，“人们可以到这里买各种各样的产品，品类会比较多。
He told us that, in his judgment, the South China seafood market, where the outbreak first occurred, also seemed to be an end market, albeit on a smaller scale, "where people can buy a wide variety of products and a wider variety of products."
”漏洞下的风险▲▲▲这两年来，李苏觉得工作变得越来越忙。
Risk under the loophole For the past two years, Sue has felt increasingly busy at work.
他将此归结为两个原因，一是随着外来务工人员的增多，农村人口减少，野生动物的生存环境相对改善，野生动物增多了，第二则是因为打击力度跟不上，捕猎野生动物的行为依然大量存在。
He attributed this to two factors: firstly, with the increase in migrant workers, the decrease in the rural population, the relative improvement in the living environment of wild animals and the increase in wild animals.
这得到了一位采访对象的作证。
This was supported by the testimony of an interviewee.
她家位于西南地区，2006年退耕还林之后，野生动物慢慢变多，包括猪獾、黄鼠狼、麂子、野猪等，当地农民会在原先自己家的地界设陷阱捕获，捕回来卖钱。
Her home is in the southwestern part of the country. Wild animals, including badgers, weasels, suede, wild boar, etc., slowly increase after the conversion of cropland to forest in 2006.
对于没有外出的人来说，这是一项不错的收入。
This is a good income for people who don't go out.
“我家并没有捕捉野生动物对不对的概念，只是觉得这些东西能换钱而已，也没人管。
"My family doesn't capture the concept of wildlife right, it just feels like it can be exchanged for money, and nobody cares.
”这恰恰是李苏和同事执法困难所在。
That is where the enforcement difficulties lie for Mr Lisou and his colleagues.
“你在农村打死老百姓一只羊，事主会天天来找你，让你帮他要赔偿，这是不得了的事。
'When you kill a sheep in the country, the Lord will come to you every day and ask you to pay for it.
而如果是野生动物，这些在他们看来都是天生天养的东西，是没有成本的。
And in the case of wild animals, these seem to them to be innate things, without cost.
长期下来，执法部门也就没有压力。
In the long run, there will be no pressure on law enforcement.
”李苏举了一个例子，他说根据刑法规定，非法猎捕、杀害国家重点保护的珍贵、濒危野生动物的，或者非法收购、运输、出售国家重点保护的珍贵、濒危野生动物及其制品的，处五年以下有期徒刑或者拘役，并处罚金；情节严重的，处五年以上十年以下有期徒刑，并处罚金，“猫头鹰属于国家二级保护动物，猎捕5只以上就属于比较严重的行为，按照法律要判5年以上，但在量刑从轻的大背景下，多半案件都不会这么做。
He said that anyone who illegally hunts or kills precious or endangered wildlife under special state protection or illegally buys, transports or sells precious or endangered wildlife and their products under special state protection shall be sentenced to fixed-term imprisonment of not less than five years and not more than 10 years and a fine.
”李苏发现，近几年来，野生动物的贩卖规模有不断增加的趋势。
The scale of wildlife trafficking has been on the rise in recent years, Li found.
他们曾经查获一辆运输从安徽出发，途径江西的运输车，车门打开的一瞬间，执法人员都震惊了，满满一车全是动物，最后统计有4000多只，包括黄麂、猪獾、狗獾、白面狸、鹭鸟等，同时另有眼镜蛇、五步蛇、乌梢蛇等爬行类600余公斤。
When the door was opened, law enforcement officials were shocked. There were more than 4,000 animals, including muntjac, pig badger, dog badger, beaver, egret and so on. At the same time, there were more than 600 kilograms of cobras, serpents, eunuchs and other reptiles.
“大批被截获野生动物已死亡。
"Large numbers of intercepted wildlife have died.
规模大是这两年的新特点，以前可能就是跟着大巴车或者是放在后备箱里。
Large-scale is a new feature of the past two years, which may have been following the bus or in the trunk.
冬天是猎捕野生动物的旺季，这个时候容易储藏。
Winter is a good season for hunting wild animals. It is easy to store at this time.
”中国观鸟组织联合行动平台的工作人员朱雀会将国内的野生动物市场概括为“大江大河”和“小溪小流”，他告诉本刊，大江大河是指有成熟的贸易链条，从动物怎么抓、怎么处理、谁来卖、谁来运，都一应俱全，也有固定的运输道路。
Zhu Dao, a staff member of the China Bird Watching Organisation's Joint Action Platform, will summarise the domestic wildlife market as "Big River" and "Little Stream," telling this print that the Big River refers to a well-established trade chain with everything from how animals are caught, handled, sold and transported.
我们杂志曾经做过猎杀禾花雀的报道。
Our magazine used to report on the killing of grasses.
禾花雀多从天津唐山一代捕捉，一般都很瘦，因此需要催肥，用苏子、芝麻、小米、葡萄糖、维C，还有一种叫“速达肥”的家禽添加剂饲料，养20天左右后闷死。
Grasses, caught mostly from the Tangshan generation in Tianjin, are generally thin and need to be fattened to death after about 20 days using prune, sesame, millet, glucose, vitamin C, and a poultry additive known as "quick-starter" feed.
采取闷死的办法一是省事，二是方便运输，三是为了带血，因为食客认为这样可以壮阳。
The way to take suffocation is to save time, the second is to facilitate transportation, and the third is to bring blood, because diners think this can Zhuang Yang.
这些禾花雀以100只为一个食品兜的单位装泡沫箱，用胶带封好，密闭保鲜，可通过机场销往广东。
The sparrows are packed with 100 units for a single food basket, sealed with tape, sealed and kept fresh, and can be sold to Guangdong through the airport.
“小河小溪”则是指普通人能够接触到的途径，即野味从村镇集市上收购以后，直接到临近的城市，共给一些苍蝇馆子。
"Stream and Creek" refers to the way ordinary people can access, that is, game from village bazaars, directly to nearby cities, a total of some fly restaurants.
“这个链条短平快，可能只有一个人开个面包车到市场，这样就很难执法。
"The chain is short and fast, and maybe only one person has a van to get to the market, which makes it difficult to enforce the law.
”运送的过程也加大了野生动物食用的风险。
The transportation process also increases the risk of wildlife consumption.
李苏经常会查获到长途大巴运送野生动物，大巴上层是人，下层则是行李，动物们跟着汽车走十多个小时。
Li Su often catches long-distance buses carrying wild animals. The upper layer is human and the lower level is the luggage.
这是他们现在相对重视的案例，“人和动物长时间在一起，极易产生交叉感染。
This is the case they now value relatively, "people and animals together for a long time, easy to cross-infection.
这一块不及时制止，可能会产生很严重的后果。
If this block is not stopped in time, it may have very serious consequences.
”李苏说如果涉及到大批量的野生动物，在长途运输之前，商贩会给它们服药，以延长他们的活力，“这中间存在滥用药的问题，而且野生动物不经过检疫，这些都增加了食用的风险。
"When it comes to large quantities of wild animals, traders give them drugs to keep them alive long before they are transported long distances," says Li Su. "There is a drug abuse problem and wild animals are not quarantined, which increases the risk of consumption.
”病毒突变▲▲▲根据《动物防疫法》及《动物检疫管理办法》规定，野生动物必须是合法捕获的，且需在捕获后3天内向当地动物卫生监督机构申报检疫，经检疫符合以下条件的，自非封锁区、临床检查健康、农业部规定需要进行实验室疫病检测的，检测结果符合要求，由官方兽医出具《动物检疫合格证明》后，方可饲养、经营和运输。
According to the Animal Disease Prevention Law and the Administrative Measures on Animal Quarantine, wild animals must be legally caught and must report quarantine to the local animal health supervision authorities within three days after they are caught.
非法猎捕的前提之下，这一系列举措显然都无法运行下去。
Given the prospect of illegal hunting, it is clear that none of this will work.
李苏告诉本刊，按照《国家重点保护野生动物驯养繁殖许可证管理办法》规定，凡驯养繁殖国家一级保护野生动物的，由省、自治区、直辖市政府林业行政主管部门报林业部审批；凡驯养繁殖国家二级保护野生动物的，由省、自治区、直辖市政府林业行政主管部门审批。
The department of forestry administration of the government of a province, autonomous region or municipality directly under the Central Government shall report the matter to the Ministry of Forestry for examination and approval.
“申请许可证的单位或者个人必须要有适宜的驯养繁殖野生动物的固定场所和必需的设施，但在我们办理的案件里，许多地方条件是不具备的，但是他们手上却有许可证明，所以目前系统是有漏洞的。
"Units or individuals applying for permits must have proper facilities for domesticating and breeding wild animals, but in many cases the local conditions are not available, but they have permits, so there are loopholes in the current system.
我们就得费更大的力气去证明它的来源是非法的。
We'll have to do a lot more to prove that its source is illegal.
”安徽医科大学基础医学院微生物学教研室教师瞿明胜的专业就是研究病毒。
Qu Mingsheng, a teacher at the Institute of Microbiology at Anhui Medical University's School of Basic Medicine, studied viruses.
他告诉本刊野生动物运送途中很有可能产生交叉感染的问题。
He told the print wildlife transport is likely to have cross-infection problems.
“这种感染会使得病毒发生突变，导致病毒能力增强，从而传播到人的身上。
"The infection causes the virus to mutate, leading to an increased viral capacity that can then spread to people.
”瞿明胜说，病毒包括冠状病毒发生突变的一个重要原因，即是其自然条件或者环境条件发生变化，病毒在生存中面临选择压力，必须要靠不断地调整和改变自己来适应环境。
Qu Mingsheng said an important reason for the virus to mutate, including the coronavirus, is that its natural or environmental conditions have changed.
“比如说之前sars病毒的宿主是果子狸，但现在果子狸越来越少，病毒可能就会去寻找新的宿主，然后最终感染到人。
"Before, for example, the SARS virus was hosted by a civet, but now that there are fewer beavers, the virus may look for a new host and eventually infect people.
”瞿明胜告诉本刊，跟流感病毒和HIV病毒相比，冠状病毒其实是很稳定的，一般不容易发生突变，目前却已经出现了三次变异：sars、中东呼吸综合症以及目前的新型冠状病毒。
Qu told the magazine that the coronavirus is stable compared to the influenza virus and HIV virus. It is not prone to mutation, but it has been mutated three times: sars, Middle East respiratory syndrome and the current coronavirus.
在病毒不断突变传播的过程中，病毒也会表现出对药物的耐药性。
Viruses also show resistance to drugs as the virus continues to mutate and spread.
瞿明胜说金刚烷胺对流感病毒有很好的治疗作用，但2013年H7N9禽流感病毒出现时，它却表现出了对金刚烷胺的抗药性，“后来发现病毒只是发生了一个氨基酸的突变。
Qu Mingsheng said amantadine has a good effect on influenza viruses, but it showed resistance to amantadine when H7N9 avian influenza virus appeared in 2013.
面对环境的压力，它不得不作出变化。
In the face of environmental pressures, it had to change.
”瞿明胜提到了此次疫情的最初爆发点华南海鲜市场，“各种各样的野生动物混在一起，病毒之间有可能出现遗传物质的交换，会为突变提供更便利的条件。
Qu Mingsheng mentioned the South China seafood market, where the outbreak first erupted. "All kinds of wild animals are mixed together and there is a possibility that viruses will exchange genetic material, providing better conditions for mutation."
市场内人流量特别大，病毒也会自己创造条件去感染人，并在人群中扩散。
Markets are particularly crowded, and the virus creates its own conditions to infect people and spread them among people.
”瞿明胜说，2013年H7N9疫情出现后，即刻关闭了活禽市场，疫情很快得到了控制。
Qu Mingsheng said the outbreak was quickly brought under control when the live poultry market was closed immediately after the H7N9 outbreak in 2013.
（李苏为化名）作者档案王珊喜欢阳光，喜欢晒太阳，最近喜欢易建联。
Author Wang Shan likes sunshine, likes to bask in the sun and likes Yi Jianlian recently.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@小笨走走停王海燕三联记者，比较喜欢采访，偶尔也喜欢写稿26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信公众号：解放路97号（jm-freetree）请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
26 minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo: @ Stupid Walk Stop Wang Haiyan journalists, prefer to interview, occasionally like to write 26 minutes ago Lifestyle Weekly personal micro-public number: 97 Jiefang Road # # I am in the epidemic line # articles in the ongoing Triple Lifestyle Weekly media are now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
小笨王珊。
Little stupid Wang Shan.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
野味消费：病毒突变的“祸根”。
Game consumption: the "bane of virus mutation".
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "野味消费：病毒突变的“祸根”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; game consumption: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "SARS之后，我们以为人类对野味的消费会减少很多，没想到最近几年，这种需求又在不断增加，消费的种类也呈现不断扩大趋势。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
然而，从猎捕到运输、加工、售卖环节下的漏洞，也使得病毒在传播过程中不断发生变异。
However, from hunting to transportation, processing and selling links under the loopholes, so that the virus in the process of transmission is constantly mutating.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
