李文亮医生的最后40天。
Dr. Lee's last 40 days.
季录。
Seasons.
财经十一人                      。
Eleven finance and economics.
财经十一人。
Eleven finance and economics.
由《财经》杂志公司产业报道团队创建，研讨企业成败，探究行业兴衰，推动阳光商业。
Founded by Caijing magazine's industry report team, it explores the success or failure of enterprises, probes into the ups and downs of the industry, and promotes sunshine business.
一位网友留言：世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
One netizen message: There is no hero in the world from the sky, only ordinary people who stand up.
这位已经逝去的年轻医生，为仍在抗击疫情的人们提出了警醒：这场战役依然艰巨季录| 文图片源自网络2020年2月7日凌晨3点48分，武汉中心医院在其官方微博发布消息：“我院眼科医生李文亮，在抗击新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染，经全力抢救无效，于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世。
The young doctor who has passed away is a wake-up call for those still battling the epidemic. Wuhan Central Hospital announced on its official Weibo service at 3: 48 a.m. on February 7, 2020: "Our hospital ophthalmologist Li Wenliang passed away at 2.58 a.m. on February 7, 2020 after suffering an unfortunate infection in the battle against pneumonia infected by the new coronavirus.
”武汉中心医院微博截图2月7日下午13点02分，中央纪委国家监委网站发布消息：“经中央批准，国家监察委员会决定派出调查组赴湖北省武汉市，就群众反映的涉及李文亮医生的有关问题作全面调查。
"With the approval of the central government, the State Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine Commission decided to send an investigation team to Wuhan, Hubei Province, to make a comprehensive investigation into the questions raised by the masses concerning Dr. Li Wenliang," the website of the Central Disciplinary Committee (CNCC) said.
”李文亮，终年34岁。
Li Wenliang is 34 years old.
他是两个孩子的父亲，一个5岁，一个孕期尚不足6个月。
He was the father of two children, aged five and less than six months pregnant.
在2019年12月30日，他偶然发现可能是一种新型病毒感染的肺炎疫情苗头，于是在专业医护人员微信群里小范围预警，叮嘱大家“注意防范”。
On December 30, 2019, he stumbled on an outbreak of pneumonia, possibly a new form of viral infection, and issued a small warning in a small group of health professionals to "watch out."
当时这个乐观开朗的年轻人不会意识到，自己进入了生命的最后40天。
The upbeat young man would not have realized that he was entering the last 40 days of his life.
图片源自网络虽然李文亮是眼科医生，他在微信群里警示的消息还是很快被截屏传播出去。
Although Li Wenliang is an ophthalmologist, the messages he warned about in the microphone group were quickly broadcast on the screen.
第二天他被院领导约谈，4天后，他配合警方签下一份训诫书，同意不再扩散“谣言”。
The next day he was interviewed by hospital officials, and four days later he cooperated with the police in signing a reprimand agreeing not to spread "rumours."
李文亮的一位同事说，院里多数医生了解情况后，只采用口头而非文字形式，互相提醒同事、家人做好防护，李文亮应当是院里唯一被“训诫”的医生。
A colleague said that most doctors in the hospital only use oral instead of written form to remind colleagues and family members to take precautions. Li should be the only doctor in the hospital who has been "reprimanded."
图片源自李文亮医生微博“训诫”结束后，李文亮重回眼科医生岗位，无意中接触到感染病人。
Li Wenliang returned to his position as an ophthalmologist after his microblog "sermon" ended and he came into contact with an infected patient.
据上述医生介绍，李文亮是他们院里第一批被感染的医生，彼时多数医生备好了口罩，但“没想到传染性这么强”。
Li Wenliang was one of the first doctors in his hospital to be infected, according to the doctor. Most doctors had masks in place, but "I didn't expect it to be so contagious."
如今，李文亮的直接领导，眼科室主任，还在重症监护室里。
Today, Li Wenliang's direct leader, the head of the ophthalmology department, is still in intensive care.
1月10日前后，李文亮出现咳嗽、发热症状。
Around January 10, Li Wenliang cough, fever symptoms.
李文亮后来接受采访时说，他对病毒不会人传人的说法“将信将疑”。
In an interview later, Li said he was "skeptical" that the virus would not be passed from person to person.
当时，国家卫健委专家组的专家对于病毒是否人传人尚不确定。
At that time, experts from the National Health Commission expert group on whether the virus from person to person is uncertain.
李文亮的怀疑和警示，后来都被事实证明是对的。
Li's suspicions and warnings turned out to be true.
1月20日，呼吸病学专家钟南山在接受央视采访时表示，新型冠状病毒“肯定人传人”。
January 20, the respiratory experts Zhong Nan Shan said in an interview with CCTV, the new coronavirus "positive person-to-person."
当时李文亮的父母已确诊，李文亮自己出现症状一周多，先后做了三次核酸试纸检测，两次显示“阴性”，一次显示“阳性”，最后在2月1日确诊。
Li Wenliang, whose parents had diagnosed Li Wenliang's symptoms for more than a week, did three tests of nucleic acid test paper, twice showed "negative," once showed "positive," and finally confirmed on February 1.
熟悉李文亮的人说，这位毕业于武汉大学医学院的辽宁小伙就是个普通人，喜欢吃炸鸡、泡面，也爱追星追剧。
People familiar with Li said the Liaoning man, a graduate of Wuhan University School of Medicine, was an ordinary man who loved fried chicken, noodles and star-hunting.
因为不擅人情世故，他从东北到武汉上学，毕业后先去厦门工作了三年，又回到武汉。
Due to his lack of social skills, he went to Wuhan from the Northeast to study, after graduation to work in Xiamen for three years, and then returned to Wuhan.
今年他将迎来第二个孩子的降生。
He is expecting his second child this year.
即使确诊是冠状病毒感染后，他依然乐观。
Even after he was diagnosed with coronavirus infection, he was optimistic.
他喜欢的电视剧主角在他微博留言祝福，他回复期待看到续集。
His favorite TV protagonist in his Weibo message blessing, he replied looking forward to seeing the sequel.
接受财新采访时他表示，被训诫后平不平反并不重要，“一个健康的社会不应该只有一种声音”。
In an interview with Caixin, he said it was not important to be disciplined, "a healthy society should not have one voice."
图片源自网络根据公开数据，截止2020年2月7日15时，全国新型冠状病毒确诊人数31224人，已有637人死亡，1606人治愈。
Up to 3: 00 p.m. February 7, 2020, the number of people diagnosed with the new coronavirus nationwide was 31,224, with 637 dead and 1,606 cured, according to open data.
这些数字背后，是和李文亮一样的普通人。
Behind these figures are ordinary people like Li Wenliang.
一位武汉中心医院的医生说：“现在不止是悲痛，如果你的救命恩人去世了，你会怎么样？”他在电话那头哭了起来。
"It's not just grief," said a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital. "What would happen if your savior died?" He cried over the phone.
该医生说，部分一线人员希望能将2月6日定为李文亮医生的纪念日，“记住，不是2月7日，是6日。
Some frontline staff hope to mark Dr Liang's anniversary on February 6, the doctor said. "Remember, it's not February 7, it's 6.
”这位医生说。
"said the doctor.
另一位和李文亮相熟的武汉中心医院医生说：“我要是昨天有机会见到他，会告诉他，你放心地去，你担心的事，都不是事，你屋里人有人照护。
"If I had the chance to see him yesterday, I would tell him that you can go with confidence and worry about nothing," said another doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, who is familiar with Li Wen.
如果我们有命活下来，以后每年找时间，倒酒祭天祭地祭兄弟！”“都不肯放弃最后一丝希望”“他的病情一直都比较重。
If we survive, some time every year thereafter, we pour out the offerings to the gods and brothers! He has always been in a bad way
”一位李文亮的同事说。
"said a colleague from Li Wenliang.
汇总各方面信息，李文亮在1月10日就出现了咳嗽症状，接着开始感到发热、恶心。
After summarizing all the information, Li Wenliang developed cough symptoms on January 10 and began to feel feverish and nauseous.
1月15日前后，李文亮住进武汉市中心医院重症监护室。
Around January 15, Li Wenliang was admitted to intensive care unit of Wuhan Central Hospital.
他做了三次核酸试纸检测，结果显示，两次阴性一次阳性，2月1日，李文亮确诊。
He did three tests on nucleic acid test paper, the results showed that twice negative positive, February 1, Lee Wenliang confirmed.
李文亮的病情从2月5日开始恶化。
Li's condition began to deteriorate on February 5.
2月6日10时14分，几位专家来到了武汉中心医院重症科，对李文亮进行会诊。
On February 6, 10: 14, several experts came to Wuhan central hospital intensive care unit, for consultation with Li Wenliang.
6分钟后，专家们对李文亮进行了血气分析、动脉抽血，并开始注射激素。
Six minutes later, experts analyzed the blood gas, extracted blood from the arteries and started injecting hormones.
查看武汉市中心医院给李文亮的用药记录：他当时情况已经较为危急。
See Wuhan City Central Hospital to Li Wenliang drug records: he was already in a critical situation.
经济观察网报道说，2月6日李文亮还和朋友通了话，称自己胸闷，喘不过气，氧饱和度只有85。
On Feb. 6, Li Wenliang talked to friends, saying he had tightness in the chest, breathlessness and oxygen saturation of only 85, the economic observatory reported.
《人物》报道称，2月6日下午，李文亮从武汉中心医院南京路院区转到后湖院区，据李的同学说，李的状况很差，因此需要用人工肺ECMO，但由于中心医院南京路园区没有该设备，只能将李文亮转到后湖院区。
On February 6 afternoon, Li Wenliang was transferred from the Nanjing Road courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital to the Houhu courtyard. Li's classmates said Li's condition was so bad that he needed an artificial lung ECMO, but since the equipment was not available in the central hospital's Nanjing Road Park, Li Wenliang had to be transferred to the Houhu courtyard.
亚心医院方面确认，抢救李文亮的这台ECMO仪器是由李文亮的同事从十几公里外的亚心医院借来的，李所在的后湖院区当时没有其他可用的ECMO设备。
The hospital confirmed that the ECMO had been borrowed by Li Wenliang's colleagues from the Yaxin Hospital about 10 kilometers away, and that Li's back-lake courtyard had no other ECMO equipment available at the time.
各方信息显示：2月6日晚19时前后，李文亮被推进了抢救室。
According to various sources: February 6 around 19 p.m., Li Wenliang was pushed into the rescue room.
当晚21时18分，用药记录显示，医生对李文亮注射了肾上腺素，专业人士分析，通常这表明病人当时心跳可能已经非常微弱、甚至出现了暂停。
At 21: 18 p.m., doctors administered epinephrine to Li Wenliang, a professional analysis that usually indicated that the patient's heartbeat might have been very weak or even stopped.
上述用药记录还显示，当晚21时33分，医生做了气管插管；医生用上了人工肺ECMO救治。
The dossier also showed that, at 21: 33 p.m., the doctor had a trachea intubation; the doctor used an artificial lung ECMO.
李文亮2月6日的医疗记录“晚上9点半插管时，李文亮已经没有了基础生命体征，对插管已经没有反应。
Li Wenliang February 6 medical records "at 9: 30 pm intubation, Li Wenliang has no basic vital signs, has no response to the intubation.
”一位接近李文亮主治医生的人士说。
"said a person close to the doctor.
一份聊天记录显示，武汉市中心医院呼吸内科杨勋表示自己愿意实名证明：在对李文亮的最后救治中，医生们胸外按压了3小时，才开始用人工肺ECMO救治。
Yang Xun, breathing specialist at Wuhan Central Hospital, said he was willing to give his name as proof that doctors had to wait three hours for external chest compressions before using an artificial lung ECMO, according to a chat record.
2月6日晚22时许，李文亮去世的消息第一次传出。
At about 22 p.m. on February 6, the news of Li Wenliang's death spread for the first time.
微博用户“协和医生Do先生”在22时52分发微博称，“李文亮医生于2月6日21点30分病逝”，微信公众号丁香医生也在22时许推送了《武汉李文亮医生抢救无效去世》，上述微博随后删除。
"Dr Li Wenliang died at 21: 30 on February 6," Weixin public doctor Dr. Do distributed Weibo at 22: 52. "The micro-blog was subsequently deleted after Dr. Wei Xin, a public doctor, sent off" Dr. Li Wenliang, Wuhan "at about 2200 hours.
这些说法被不少来自武汉中心医院的内部声音打破。
These claims were broken by internal voices from Wuhan Central Hospital.
多个渠道的信息显示，李文亮当晚心跳暂停后，医生们对他进行了心肺复苏抢救，接着进行了人工肺ECMO救治，当晚22时前后，李文亮依然有微弱生命体征。
He was resuscitated by cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and an artificial lung ECMO, according to multiple sources. At around 2200 hours that night, Li Wenliang still had weak vital signs.
“人体是一个非常精密的仪器，要把各个地方调好，是非常难的。
"The human body is a very sophisticated instrument, and it is very difficult to adjust places.
”武汉大学急救中心主任助理、急诊外科主任沈俊在得知这一消息时说。
Shen Jun, assistant director of emergency surgery at Wuhan University, said of the news.
他解释称，ECMO是代替心肺功能的，人即使两暂时没有了心肺功能，也可以通过ECMO维持他其它器官的血和氧供应，不至于立即发生多器官功能衰竭。
ECMO, he explains, replaces the cardiopulmonary function. Even if a person does not have cardiopulmonary function for a while, he can maintain the blood and oxygen supply to his other organs through ECMO, which prevents an immediate multi-organ failure.
“但这样的话，就得把这个机器用到极致。
"" But in that case, we have to use the machine to its limits.
需要做到不需要心肺，完全用机器代替，人的生命体征稳定，各个器官工作正常。
Need to do not need the heart and lungs, completely replaced by machines, human life signs stable, the normal functioning of all organs.
”沈俊表示。
Mr Shen said.
沈俊和团队此前曾用ECMO救活了一位新冠患者。
Shen and his team had previously used ECMO to resuscitate a new crown patient.
2月6日晚上23时许，有关李文亮死亡的消息第二次传出。
At about 2300 hours on February 6, news of Li Wenliang's death spread for the second time.
微博用户“谭飞”称：“22：57，李文亮医生卸掉了ECMO，与世长辞”。
"Dr Tam Fei, a Twitter user, said:" At 22: 57, Dr Liang took off ECMO and died.
2月7日零时38分，武汉市中心医院官方微博称：李文亮“目前病危，正在全力抢救中。
At 0038 hours on February 7, the official Weibo said: "Liang Wenliang is now critically ill and is being fully rescued.
”财新记者现场看到，有进出抢救室的巡回护士说，不行了，但里面仍在抢救。
The new reporter saw on the scene that a visiting nurse walking in and out of the emergency room said no, but it was still being rescued.
几乎同时，一位接近李文亮的人士表示，当时确实在用人工肺ECMO救治李文亮，医院尚未向其家属发放死亡通知书，“但事实上基本是没有救回的可能性了。
At about the same time, a person close to Mr. Li said the hospital had not yet issued death notices to his family, saying it was indeed treating him with an artificial lung ECMO.
”此时尽管已过了午夜，不少人还在社交平台上为李文亮祝福，期待奇迹出现。
Although it was past midnight, many people were still blessing Li on the social platform, hoping for a miracle.
一名中心医院医护人员说，2月7日凌晨1点前，还有同事在对李文亮进行抢救，“大家都不肯放弃最后一丝希望”。
Before 1: 00 am on February 7, a colleague was rescuing Li Wenliang. "Everyone won't give up the last hope," said a hospital staff member at the central hospital.
摄于武汉中心医院李文亮抢救室外一位武汉中心医院的医生说，2月7日凌晨两点以前，李文亮的救治病例在系统里还能查看，但两点以后便不再显示。
Li Wenliang, a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, said the case was still available in the system before 2 a.m. on Feb. 7, but would not show up after two o'clock.
2月7日凌晨3时48分，李文亮死亡的消息第三次传出。
At 3: 48 a.m. on February 7, the news of Li Wenliang's death spread for the third time.
这次消息来自武汉中心医院官方微博：“经全力抢救无效，李文亮于2020年2月7日凌晨2点58分去世，我们深表痛惜和哀悼。
"We deeply regret and mourn his death on February 7, 2020 at 2: 58 a.m.," said the official Weibo news from Wuhan Central Hospital.
”有人于2月7日凌晨零点29分、上午11时30分两个时段，分别给李文亮医生所在的武汉中心医院党委书记、院长、4名副院长打电话、发短信核实信息，6人均未接电话，也未回复信息。
On February 7, at 0 a.m. and 11.30 a.m., telephone calls and text messages were sent to the party secretary, dean and four vice-presidents of Wuhan Central Hospital, where Dr. Li was staying, to verify the information.
李文亮去世的消息公布后，外界对他的哀悼和敬意不绝于耳，许多人称他为平凡英雄，对他的离世深表不舍，人们不希望看到一位说了真话的人遽然离世。
When the news of his death was announced, many people called him an ordinary hero and gave him up for his passing. People did not want to see a man who told the truth suddenly die.
一位网友评论：他不是英雄，是和我们一样的凡人，他做的是我们每一个人都可能去做的事。
A netizen comment: He is not a hero, is like us mortal, he does what each of us can do.
李文亮去世前后，他的同事们分外揪心。
Before and after his death, Li Wenliang's colleagues were very upset.
“没有办法进行悼念活动，但我们想着为他的家属做一些事。
"There was no way to pay tribute, but we wanted to do something for his family.
”一位李文亮的同事说，2月7日一早，医院工会向职工发出了向李文亮家属捐赠的公告，但“我们都更愿意直接捐给家属，而不是通过工会。
A colleague from Li Wenliang said that early on February 7, the hospital union issued a notice to employees to donate to his family, but that "we would all prefer to donate directly to the family rather than through the union.
”一位其他科室的医生说，李文亮是中心医院感染医生中第一个去世的病例，目前还有数位医生在重症监护室。
A doctor from another department said Li was the first person to die of infection at the central hospital and several doctors were in the intensive care unit.
李文亮父母此前也被感染，曾在武汉当地医院住院，目前已经出院，仍在武汉。
Li Wenliang's parents, who were also infected, were hospitalized at a local hospital in Wuhan and are now out of hospital in Wuhan.
其妻子目前怀孕近6个月，没有受到感染，正在老家与他们5岁的长子进行自我隔离。
His wife, who is now nearly six months pregnant, is not infected and is isolating herself from her 5-year-old son at home.
2月6日23:25分，世界卫生组织发布一则推特：“我们为李文亮医生的离去感到深深的悲痛，我们所有人都该赞美他就新冠病毒疫情所做的工作。
6 February, 23: 25, the World Health Organization issued a Twitter message: "We are deeply saddened by the departure of Dr. Lee Wenliang, and we should all celebrate his work on the New Crown Virus outbreak.
”“真相最重要”2019年12月30日晚上，李文亮有些生气。
"Truth matters" On the evening of December 30, 2019, Li Wenliang was a little angry.
他特别叮嘱过武大的同学们，不要把自己下午在群里发的截图转发出去。
He specially advised the students of WU Da not to forward the screenshots they had sent in the group this afternoon.
没想到晚上就有一堆人拿着聊天记录截图追问他：SARS真的又回来了吗？截图中李文亮的姓名和单位都没有被打码，“华南海鲜水果市场确诊7例SARS”下面，配了一张：“临床病原体筛选结果”的检测报告。
I didn't expect a group of people to ask him in the evening with chat records: Is SARS really back? The name and unit of Li Wenliang in the screenshot have not been numbered.
这足够让经历过SARS的人们感到恐慌，以至于不少人忽略了李文亮后面几句话：“最新消息是，冠状病毒感染确定了，正在进行病毒分型”，“不要外传，让家人亲人注意防范”。
This is enough to frighten people who have experienced SARS to the point where many people have neglected the following words: "The latest information is that coronavirus infection has been confirmed and a virus is being typed.
当天，武汉卫健委在内部下发红头文件，称武汉出现不明原因肺炎，可能与华南海鲜市场有关联。
On the same day, Wuhan Wei Bodyguard Commission issued internal red documents, said Wuhan has an unknown cause of pneumonia, and may be linked to the South China seafood market.
李文亮的同事们，中心医院的其他人，也获悉了不明原因肺炎的信息，更多是口头上互相通知亲友、同事注意防护，没有人像李文亮一样用文字告知更多人。
Li Wenliang's colleagues, the rest of the central hospital, also learned about unknown causes of pneumonia, more oral notification to relatives and friends, colleagues pay attention to the protection, no one like Li Wenliang in the text to inform more people.
“这在规定上是不允许的。
"This is not permissible under the rules.
”一位中心医院的医生说。
"said a doctor at the Central Hospital.
2019年12月31日一早，李文亮被武汉市中心医院领导叫过去谈话，他被告知卫健委的专家们因为这件事凌晨一点半还在开会讨论，他后来在接受财新记者采访时谈到，当时心里想着“承认下错误应该就没事了”。
In the early morning of December 31, 2019, Li Wenliang was called to talk by the head of Wuhan Central Hospital. He was told that the health experts were still discussing the matter at 1: 30 am.
1月1日，武汉警方通报了8名“造谣者”的消息。
On January 1, Wuhan police announced the news of eight "disinformation."
李文亮不知道自己是不是其中之一，后来发现，8名“造谣者”多位是武汉当地医院医生。
Li Wenliang did not know whether he was one of them, and later found out that eight "rumour makers" are Wuhan local hospital doctors.
在李文亮被“约谈”的同时，武汉中心医院很多医生开始准备防护物资。
While Li was being "interviewed," many doctors at Wuhan Central Hospital began to prepare protective materials.
“临床一线医生不可能没有根据地提醒周围人，我们愿意去相信他。
"A clinical frontline doctor cannot unjustifiably remind people around us that we are willing to trust him.
”一位中心医院的医生说，他听到李文亮的警示后，号召科室的人紧急囤了一盒N95口罩。
A doctor at the central hospital said he heard Li Wenliang's warning and called on staff to urgently hoard a box of N95 masks.
1月3日李文亮被叫去派出所，签下一份《训诫书》。
On January 3, Li Wenliang was called to the police station to sign a "sermon."
从没遇到过这种事的李文亮免不了担心，他怕自己被派出所拘留了影响晋升，于是配合流程签了字。
Li Wenliang has never encountered this kind of thing inevitably worried, he was afraid of being detained by the police station to influence the promotion, so the process signed.
后来他被感染，躺在中心医院的病床上接受财新采访，说自己没想过走司法渠道找公安，“我很怕麻烦，公道自在人心。
Later, he was infected, lying in the hospital bed in the Central Hospital Caixin interview, said he did not want to use the judicial channels to find public security, "I am afraid of trouble, fair and comfortable people.
”在同事们眼里，他对工作尽心尽力。
"In the eyes of his colleagues, he was conscientious about his work.
接受训诫后不久，1月8日，他开始作为眼科医生接诊。
Shortly after his reprimand, on 8 January, he began consultations as an ophthalmologist.
但从1月10日开始，他先是出现了咳嗽的症状，没放在心上，依然坚持在一线工作。
But from January 10 onwards, he first developed cough symptoms, did not pay attention to, but still adhere to the front-line work.
1月11日，他的体温升到了38.2℃，“这才意识到问题大了”。
On January 11, his temperature rose to 38.2 degrees Celsius, "and he became aware of the problem."
当天做的CT结果显示，李文亮双肺多发感染，出现磨玻璃样病变。
CT findings on the same day showed that Li Wenliang had multiple lung infections and abrasive glass-like lesions.
和他同期出现症状的，还有来照顾病人的家属，同科室的两位同事，甚至之前口头警告不要再扩散“谣言”的医院领导。
He was accompanied by family members who took care of patients, two colleagues in the same section, and even hospital leaders who had previously verbally warned against spreading "rumour."
他的领导、眼科室主任，现在仍在重症监护室。
His head, the head of the ophthalmology department, is still in intensive care.
李文亮感知到了此次疫情的苗头，但病毒的扩散速度还是远远超出他的预想。
Li Wenliang sensed the beginning of the outbreak, but the virus spread much faster than he expected.
武汉中心医院的一位医生说，2019年12月底，他们开始戴上口罩接诊，但“谁都没想到传染性这么强”。
A doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital said they started wearing masks at the end of December 2019, but "no one expected it to be so contagious."
1月10日前后，是该医院医护人员第一批感染高峰，“医生们自己去网上买了护目镜等防护物资”。
Around January 10, the peak of the hospital's first wave of infections, "doctors went online and bought protective equipment such as goggles."
对于李文亮来说，传染没有按下暂停键。
For Li Wenliang, the infection did not press the pause button.
1月15日前后，李文亮的父母相继被感染入院。
Around January 15, Li's parents were admitted to hospital with infection.
尽管此前他已经做了主动隔离，但依然没能阻止病毒传播。
Although he had been actively quarantined, he had not been able to stop the virus from spreading.
在此过程中，李文亮一直希望能尽早确诊，这意味着他可以有更合适的床位和对应的治疗。
In the process, Lee has been hoping for an early diagnosis, which means he can have a more suitable bed and corresponding treatment.
一位武汉本地媒体人说，李文亮前后做过三次核酸检测，前两次都是阴性，直到第三次才是阳性，“中间耽误了时间”。
Li Wenliang was tested three times for nucleic acid, but the first two tests were negative, until the third time he was positive, "he said.
据了解，当时武汉的情况是，医生使用核酸试纸也需要排队，只有重症才能优先。
It is understood that Wuhan at that time, doctors use nucleic acid test paper also need to queue, only serious illness can be a priority.
一位中心医院的医生说，“核酸试纸的阳性率可能只有10%，有一些医护人员感染后出院，现也在隔离中，仍然没有确诊。
A doctor at a central hospital said: "The positive rate of nucleic acid test paper may be only 10 percent, and some medical staff have been discharged from the hospital after infection.
”据《北京青年报》报道，李文亮在1月26日前后体温反复，那时候已插上呼吸管，大小便不能下床，无法开口交流，只能靠打字，时间长了会头晕。
The Beijing Youth Daily reported that Li Wenliang had a recurrent temperature around January 26, when he had a breathing tube inserted, he could not get out of bed, he could not talk, he had to type, and he felt dizzy when he grew up.
他的同事说，1月20日前后李文亮的病情好过一段时间，“但之后病情就迅速加重了”。
His colleagues said Li Wenliang had been in better health for some time around January 20, "but since then his condition has rapidly worsened."
期间，李文亮接受了几家媒体采访，叙述他发布信息的经过。
During the period, Li Wenliang gave several media interviews, described his release of the information.
1月23日上午10时，武汉正式实施公共交通系统“封城”。
January 23 at 10 a.m., Wuhan officially implemented the public transport system "closed the city."
此后武汉市市长周先旺在接受媒体采访中表示，在“封城”之前，已经有500万人离开武汉。
In an interview with reporters, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said five million people had left Wuhan before the city was closed.
1月27日，武汉新增确诊病例近千人。
On January 27, nearly 1,000 new cases were confirmed in Wuhan.
周先旺在接受央视采访时承认，当地政府有关冠状病毒的信息披露不及时，希望大家理解。
In an interview with CCTV, Zhou acknowledged that the local government on the coronavirus disclosure is not timely, I hope you understand.
“只要把这个疫情控制好，我们（愿意）革职以谢天下。
"If we can only get this epidemic under control, we can (will) get rid of it.
”在离开的500万人中，有多少是因为8位“造谣者”的信息才离开的？李文亮一位学妹也是医生，她说自己正是看到李文亮在群里发出提醒，才有了防范意识。
How many of the five million people who left did so because of information from eight disinformation persons.Li Wenliang, a schoolgirl and doctor, said she saw Li Wenliang warn her in the group before she became aware of prevention.
一位同事将李文亮称为“救命恩人”，他说：“我们院很多医生都是听了他的警示开始准备防护物资，不然的话感染情况比现在更严重。
"A lot of doctors in our hospital listened to his warning and started to prepare the supplies, otherwise the infection would have been worse than it is now," said a colleague who called Li Wenliang a lifesaver.
”2月7日中午，这位医生从重症病房出来，他上午救治的病人就是一位医生，进入病房时没有N95口罩可以戴。
On February 7, at noon, the doctor came out of the intensive care unit. The patient he treated in the morning was a doctor who entered the ward without a N95 mask.
1月28日，最高人民法院微信公号发的一篇文章谈到武汉8位“造谣者”，文章称，如果社会公众当时听信了这个“谣言”，并且基于对SARS的恐慌，采取佩戴口罩、严格消毒、避免再去野生动物市场等措施，这对我们今天更好地防控新型肺炎，可能是一件幸事。
An article by the Supreme People's Court's Weixin official on January 28, referring to eight Wuhan rumors, said that if the public had listened to this "rumor" and based on panic over SARS, measures such as wearing masks, strictly disinfecting and avoiding going back to wildlife markets, it would have been a blessing for us today to better control the new pneumonia.
当时已经呼吸困难的李文亮也看到了这篇文章，他对来访的财新记者说：“平反不重要，大家看到真相最重要。
"It doesn't matter," Li Wenliang, who was already breathing hard at the time, told visiting reporters.
”1月初，武汉中心医院疫情防控领导小组选派医护人员上一线，李文亮在微信群中第三个报名。
In early January, Wuhan Central Hospital epidemic prevention and control team selected a first-line medical staff, Li Wenliang in the micro-letter group third registration.
入院治疗后，他也想着康复后要重回一线。
After being admitted to hospital, he also wants to get back on track after recovery.
2月1日李文亮最终被确诊，他发了条微博：“终于尘埃落定”还配上个狗头表情。
On Feb. 1, Lee was finally diagnosed with a tweet: "Finally the dust settles" with a dog's face.
李文亮医生微博截图“祭天祭地祭兄弟”武大樱园，图片源自网络2月7日上午，李文亮的遗体被运往汉口殡仪馆火化。
The body of Li Wenliang was taken to the Hankou mortuary to be cremated on the morning of Feb. 7, according to a photo taken by Dr. Li Wenliang.
这家殡仪馆在武汉市位置偏远，一路上需要检查通行证，殡仪馆早已封闭，没有亲友前去送别李文亮。
The funeral home in Wuhan, remote location, the way to check pass, funeral homes have long been closed, no friends and relatives to see off Li Wenliang.
当天武汉殡仪馆和武汉中心医院的对外联系电话均难接通。
Wuhan funeral parlour and Wuhan central hospital on the same day the external contact telephone are difficult to connect.
作为武汉市中心医院的一名医生，李文亮一直是个普通人。
As a doctor at Wuhan Central Hospital, Li Wenliang has always been an ordinary person.
武汉市中心医院两个分院一共4000多人，医院很多人之前都没有听过李文亮的名字。
Wuhan Central Hospital has two branches totalling more than 4000 people, many people in the hospital have not heard of Li Wenliang's name.
和他同院的医生孙文武说，初识李医生，就是因为1月初院里对一位讲真话的医生做了处罚；再见到，已经是科里的同事站在他周围，给他上ECMO。
Dr. Lee was first introduced to the hospital in early January for punishing a doctor who told the truth, said Sun Wenwu, a doctor in his hospital.
李文亮曾说，他对人生的态度是：不经审视的人生是不值得过的，希望大家都能实现自己的价值。
Li Wenliang once said that his attitude towards life is: unexamined life is not worth living, I hope that everyone can achieve their own value.
一位熟悉李文亮的同事说，李文亮乐观、讲义气、很会照顾人，“他是那种人，受人滴水之恩，会涌泉相报”。
Li Wenliang, a colleague familiar with the matter, said he was optimistic, generous and good at taking care of people.
一次同事们组团去巴厘岛游玩，该同事因排班无法前往，“我的家人一路上很受他的照顾”。
"My family was taken good care of by him all the way," said a colleague who was unable to travel to Bali due to scheduling.
据他说，李文亮是“大家的免费随身英文翻译，还会些三脚猫日语，在旅行过程中派上了用场。
According to him, Li Wenliang is "everyone's free English translation, but also some tripod Japanese, in the course of the trip came in handy.
”另一位同事说，在日常工作中，李文亮是一个细致、贴心的医生，对病人的疾病预后、注意事项交代都很细致。
"Another colleague said Li Wenliang was a meticulous and considerate doctor who spoke carefully about the prognosis and precautions for his patients.
据他周围的人介绍，他也像一名普通的“85后”青年，爱追星、追剧，喜欢看汽车、电子产品评测；经常半夜想吃东西，炸鸡、方便面、日料......对他来说，好吃的实在“诱惑太多”。
According to people around him, he is also like an ordinary "85th" youth, love to chase after stars, drama, like to watch cars, electronic products; often in the middle of the night to eat, fried chicken, instant noodles, daily necessities... for him, delicious really "too tempting."
他也抱怨不想上班，在放假前一周，就一天天倒数。
He also complained that he didn't want to go to work and countered day by day a week before the holiday.
有一次他逛超市，看到车厘子一斤158元，感叹实在吃不起。
Once while he was visiting the supermarket, he saw a catty of 158 yuan and lamented that he could not afford it.
看到微博上有转发抽奖送车厘子，他兴冲冲转发了。
Seeing that there was a forwarding lottery messenger on the microblog, he cheerfully forwarded it.
有人仔细看他之前发的微博，一大半是转发抽奖。
Someone looked carefully at his previous tweets, and more than half forwarded the lottery.
同事们还说，李文亮也常常表现出性格里的热心和热血。
Colleagues also said that Li Wenliang often displayed the warm-hearted and warm-blooded character.
2013年4月雅安地震，他捐了两次款，都是在微博上捐的。
Ya'an earthquake in April 2013, he donated twice, all on microblogging.
2019年12月28日，他转发了北京民航总医院杨文医生被杀害的新闻，表示难过、愤怒。
On 28 December 2019, he transmitted the news of the killing of Dr. Yang Wen at the General Civil Aviation Hospital in Beijing, expressing sadness and anger.
他有一个幸福的家庭，妻子在武汉爱尔眼科医院做医生，目前怀胎近6个月，预计今年7月待产，他们的长子5岁。
He has a happy family. His wife works as a doctor at the Er Eye Hospital in Wuhan. She is nearly six months pregnant and is expected to give birth in July.
他的微信头像是蜡笔小新一家四口。
His micro-letter head is crayon small new family of four.
2019年11月9日，他在微博上转发了秋日长城美景，说什么时候能带着儿子体验一下。
On November 9, 2019, he posted a beautiful view of the Great Wall of Autumn on Weibo, saying when he would be able to experience it with his son.
在微博上，李文亮写下的2020年愿望是：新的一岁希望能做一个简单的人，看得清世间繁杂却不在心中留下痕迹，保持足够的平常心。
On Weibo, Li wenliang wrote down his 2020 wish that the new one-year-old hopes to be a simple person who can see all the worldly things but leave no trace in his heart and keep enough of his ordinary heart.
一位曾经采访过李文亮的记者在他去世后和人写下文章，《我们昨晚失去了一位善良而坦荡的采访对象》。
A reporter who interviewed Li Wenliang wrote an article after his death, "We lost a kind and magnanimous interviewee last night."
她是最早采访李文亮的记者之一。
She was one of the first reporters to interview Li Wenliang.
那时李文亮正躺在重症病房里，采访通过打字完成，“他打字特别慢，每次也就几个字回复，交流一段时间后他还需要休息一会儿。
He typed so slowly that he replied to a few words at a time. After a while, he needed a rest
现在想来他当时接受采访也太不容易了。
It was not easy for him to be interviewed now.
”这位记者对《财经》回忆。
The reporter recalled Caijing.
但尽管如此，李文亮的讲述仍然毫无保留，“看到采访内容我就‘方’了，这么详细的经过，只要对着人找，一找一个准。
But despite this, Li Wenliang's account is still unreserved, "I see the content of the interview 'Fang', so detailed history, as long as looking for people, looking for a accurate.
”记者为了保护他，给他匿了名，还把他的病例单、训诫书、医院标志等都打了码，但之后她看到李文亮以真名出现在别的报道里。
"The reporter, to protect him, hid his name and numbered his medical records, sermons and hospital signs, but later she saw Li appear in other stories under his real name.
记者陆续跟李文亮保持着联系。
Reporters kept in touch with Li Wenliang.
1月27日上午9点的对话里，她问李文亮现在每天要吃多少药物，李文亮回复“很多”，之后她请李文亮更具体一点，他说“我没精力了”。
In the conversation at 9 a.m. on January 27th, Li Wenliang was asked how much medicine he would take every day. Li Wenliang responded "a lot," then asked Li to be more specific.
和李文亮熟识的医生朋友说，他和李文亮在微信上最后一次对话是，李文亮说“武汉还是有希望的，估计2月底能基本控制局势”，李文亮还提醒他面对发热患者要小心，防护做不好也会丟命。
"Wuhan is still promising and is expected to basically control the situation by the end of February," Li said. He also reminded him to be careful in the face of febrile patients and lose his life if he failed to do it well.
他们约好，等李文亮身体好了一起喝酒。
They made an appointment to drink with Li Wenliang when he was well.
“我要是昨天有机会见一下清醒的他，会先告诉他，你放心的去，你担心的事，都不是事，你屋里人都有人照护；第二，你休息休息，换兄弟们上，兄弟们一直在上，不掐灭病毒对不起你的牺牲，我们这些弟兄们，有命在，就扛到底！！第三，约好的吃饭，目测已经来不及了，如果我们这些人也要牺牲，那蛮好，趁着还没走远，就地解决！！如果我们有命活下来，以后每年找时间，倒酒祭天祭地祭兄弟！”2月7日上午，李文亮的医生朋友设置了手机日历：以后每年2月6日，都是给“李文亮祭祀”的日子，“每年约2月6号，吃饭！”同是医生的他，在武汉“封城”前向医院发出请战书：“随时听候召唤和派遣，不计生死，不计报酬。
If I had a chance to see him sober yesterday, I would tell him first that you are not worried about anything and that you are cared for in the house. Second, you rest on February 6, exchange brothers, do not nip out the virus.
”李文亮一位同事得知他去世后，在朋友圈回忆和他相处的细节：你是我眼里最可爱的同事，说话慢吞吞，从来不大声、不急躁。
A colleague learned the details of his relationship with him in a circle of friends after his death: You are the loveliest colleague in my eyes, speaking slowly and never loudly or impatiently.
有人找你换班你从来不拒绝，不管人家说什么不着边的话，你都会回一句，好的。
You never refuse to be changed, and you answer no matter what they say or say. Okay.
这样的你，竟然走了。
That's you, you're gone.
2020年2月7日上午，国家卫健委官网发布消息：“武汉市中心医院李文亮医生在抗击疫情中感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，经全力救治不幸逝世，国家卫生健康委表示深切哀悼，向李文亮医生的家属表示诚挚慰问。
On the morning of February 7, 2020, the National Health and Wellness Commission announced: "Dr. Li Wenliang, the central hospital of Wuhan City, died of a new coronavirus pneumonia in the fight against the epidemic.
”在2月7日举行的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，国家卫健委新闻发言人宋树立表示：“李文亮医生在抗击疫情中感染新型冠状病毒肺炎，经全力救治不幸逝世，国家卫生健康委表示深切哀悼，向李文亮医生的家属表示诚挚慰问。
"Dr. Li Wenliang expressed his deep condolences to the family of Dr. Li Wenliang on the death of the new coronavirus pneumonia in the fight against the epidemic," Song Zheng, spokesman for the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism, said at a press conference on Feb. 7.
”她还说，当前抗击疫情正处于关键时期，防控形势依然严峻复杂，需要全社会更加关心关爱医务人员。
"She added that the current fight against the epidemic is at a critical period, and the situation for prevention and control remains grave and complex, requiring the whole society to pay more attention to medical personnel.
当天上午，湖北省卫健委官网发布消息：“获悉武汉市中心医院眼科医生李文亮在抗击疫情中不幸感染新冠肺炎，经全力抢救无效不幸去世。
"I learned that Li Wenliang, an ophthalmologist at Wuhan Central Hospital, died after struggling to recover his newly infected crown pneumonia," Hubei Wei Health Officers' Web site said.
省卫生健康委向李文亮医生表示深切哀悼，并向其家属表示诚挚慰问！”2月7日上午，武汉市政府官网上发布了一条《公告》：“武汉中心医院李文亮医生，因感染新型肺炎，经全力抢救无效不幸去世。
"On the morning of February 7, Wuhan Central Hospital, Dr. Li Wenliang, died of pneumonia due to a new type of pneumonia, and his family members were offered sincere sympathy.
我们深表哀悼，万分惋惜！对其坚守一线抗击疫情表示敬意，对其家人表示诚挚慰问！”当天上午，湖北省人民政府官网转载了省卫健委的深切哀悼和武汉市政府的致敬。
We deeply mourn and deeply regret that he has stood by the frontline battle against the epidemic and expressed our sincere sympathy to his family! On the morning of the same day, the official website of the People's Government of Hubei Province reprinted the profound condolences of the provincial health committee and saluted the city of Wuhan.
另据湖北广电融媒体记者报道，经武汉市中心医院申请，武汉市人社局2月7日认定，李文亮作为医护人员在抗击新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情工作中不幸感染并经抢救无效去世，认定为工伤。
According to a report by Hubei Radio & amp; TV media reporters, the Wuhan Municipal Central Hospital applied and the Wuhan Municipal Bureau of Social Affairs determined on February 7 that Li Wenliang as a medical worker in the fight against the new coronavirus infection pneumonia unfortunately infected and died after rescue invalid, recognized as an industrial injury.
据核算，李文亮工伤保险待遇如下：一次性工亡补助金78.502万元、丧葬补助金3.6834万元。
According to accounting, Li Wenliang industrial injury insurance benefits as follows: one-time disability benefits 785.02 million yuan, funeral grants 368.34 million yuan.
2月7日晚9点多，武汉市中心医院门口响起了哨声，伴随着“武汉加油”的喊声。
February 7 night more than 9 o'clock, Wuhan City Central Hospital sounded the whistle, accompanied by "Wuhan refueling" shouts.
许多市民前来悼念李文亮，央视采访了一名家住医院附近的50岁市民，她抹着眼泪说：“我不认识李医生，但我觉得必须来一下。
"I don't know Dr. Li, but I think we need to come," she said, wiping her tears as she interviewed a 50-year-old citizen near her home hospital.
我本来想送一束花，但是没有卖的。
I wanted to send a bunch of flowers, but I didn't sell them.
”但是医院门诊大楼门前仍然摆满了鲜花，多是黄色和白色的菊花，“谢谢你的勇敢”，是鲜花上出现得最多的悼词。
But there were still flowers in front of the hospital's out-patient building, mostly yellow and white, "Thank you for your courage," the most common eulogy on flowers.
2月7日晚，武汉市中心医院门诊楼前感谢所有提供相关信息、资料和帮助的朋友责编 | 蒋丽lijiang@caijing.com.cn。
On the evening of February 7, thanks to all the friends who provided relevant information, materials and help, Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
李文亮医生的最后40天。
Dr. Lee's last 40 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经十一人";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics.
var msg_title = "李文亮医生的最后40天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Dr Liang's last 40 days;;
var msg_desc = "世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人。
var msg _ desc = & quot; No hero ever came down from the sky, only mortals who stood up.
这位已经逝去的年轻医生，为仍在抗击疫情的人们提出了警醒：这场战役依然艰巨";。
The young doctor who has passed away is a wake-up call for those still battling the epidemic: It's still a hard and fast battle.
title: '接待医护人员的武汉酒店：“现在不是谈钱的时候”，但真的快撑不住了',。
Wuhan, which has hosted paramedics: "This is not the time to talk about money," but it certainly has not held up & amp; apos; s service.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '穿越疫区：武汉“爱心司机”的一天12小时',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '直击火神山医院：“神速”交付，继续收尾，首批病人即将入院',。
Running straight to Mount Fujimori Hospital: Delivered at top speed, continues to close, and has its first patient at & apos; s.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
title: '浙江小老板们的疫情寒冬：复工难，丢订单，现金流撑不过三个月',。
Yesterday's winter at Zhejiang's small employers: a hard time getting back to work, dropping orders, and a cash flow that didn't last three months or more.
subject_name: '财经十一人',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & economics & amp; economics & amp; economics & amp; apos;
var title ="财经十一人";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; 11; & quot;
