留守武汉的孕产妇：新生命的到来拦不住。
Wuhan left behind the maternity: the arrival of new life can not stop.
高逸佳 冯洁等。
Gao Yat Jia Feng Jie etc.
南都周刊                      。
Nandu Weekly.
南都周刊。
Nandu Weekly.
有温度的新媒体。
New media with temperature.
在诸多志愿者和热心网友的帮助下，感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的小飞妻子在武汉协和西院顺利生产，母子平安。
With the help of many volunteers and enthusiastic netizens, Xiao Fei's wife, infected with the new coronavirus pneumonia, gave birth smoothly in the Western Hospital of Wuhan Concoronavirus.
文 | 高逸佳 冯洁 陈星萌 编辑 | 小豆2月1日19时13分，小飞更新微博动态：“顺产7.1斤胖小伙一个、孕妇状态很好。
At 19: 13 on February 1, Xiao Fei updated Weibo: "A fat man of 7.1 jin and a pregnant woman are in good shape."
感谢各位关注和转发。
Thank you for your attention and attention.
”在诸多志愿者和热心网友的帮助下，小飞的妻子在武汉协和西院顺利生产，母子平安。
"With the help of many volunteers and enthusiastic netizens, Xiao Fei's wife gave birth smoothly in the WUHAI WESTERN YUEN, and mother and child were safe.
目前，已经确诊感染新型冠状病毒肺炎的小飞和妻子在医院接受治疗，孩子出生后就与他们隔离。
Now Feifei and his wife, who have been confirmed to have contracted the new coronavirus pneumonia, have been treated in hospital and separated from their children since birth.
2月4日婴儿的核酸测试为阴性，转到了普通病房。
On 4 February, the baby tested negative for nucleic acid and was transferred to the general ward.
1月29日，小飞发布了一条求助微博，引起大量网友的关注。
January 29, Xiaofei issued a help micro-blog, attracted a large number of netizens attention.
妻子出现感染症状后，小飞多方联系医院与各种相关部门，找社区求助、呼叫120，将妻子送到武汉市中心医院后湖院区。
After his wife developed symptoms of infection, Xiao Fei contacted the hospital and various related departments to seek help from the community, call 120, to send his wife to Wuhan central hospital backlake courtyard.
但因为不满足为感染产妇接生的条件，医院没能对她进行接收。
However, the hospital was unable to receive her because she did not meet the conditions for the delivery of infected women.
在诸多志愿者的帮助下，1月31日早上，小飞联系上华中科技大学附属协和西院，医院虽然仍未彻底完成对感染新冠病毒的孕妇的产房准备，但还是接收了他们，并帮助小飞的妻子自然生产成功。
With the help of many volunteers, Xiao Fei contacted the Concorde West Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology on the morning of Jan. 31. Although the hospital had not yet completed its preparations for the delivery room for pregnant women infected with the new crown virus, it accepted them and helped Xiao Fei's wife to give birth naturally.
在湖北，越来越多的新生命顺利降生——1月24日，武汉疑似感染孕妇顺利娩下6斤2两的男婴，术后回到感染病房继续治疗；1月29日，湖北黄石首例确诊产妇成功剖腹产下一名5斤多的女婴，母女已于2月7日顺利出院；2月4日，湖北籍孕妇在隔离期内顺利产子，母子平安……面对着感染的风险、紧张的床位、被迫停下的产检、艰难的求医……疫区的孕产妇与医生和志愿者们一起撑起了一道“生门”。
More and more new babies were born in Hubei province on Jan. 24, 2007. Wuhan's pregnant woman gave birth to 6 jin and 2 babies, and returned to the infection ward for treatment.
孕妇心声：找一个最安全的地方生2月预产期对于准妈妈们来说，本意味着孩子可以在春天的陪伴下降生，意味着一个聪明伶俐的水瓶座宝宝，或是一个善良可爱的双鱼座宝宝。
Expectant mothers can expect their baby to drop off in the spring, meaning a bright Aquarius baby or a kind and loving Pisces baby.
但随着疫情的爆发，处于孕晚期的武汉孕妇集体陷入了焦虑不安。
But with the outbreak of the epidemic, Wuhan pregnant women in the late stage of the collective into anxiety.
“现在，去医院产检可能比不做产检的危险要更大一些。
"At the moment, a visit to a hospital may be more dangerous than not having a checkup," he said.
”孕期28周的小圆子搁置了她预定的产检计划。
The 28-week-old was put on hold for her scheduled medical check-up.
在早期产检时，她被检查出有前置胎盘的可能性，但只有到怀孕七个月的时候才可以做B超确认，本该这一周去武汉协和医院做产检的她，考虑到医院收治了大批患新冠肺炎的病人，决定取消这个计划。
She was tested for the possibility of having a placenta placed in front of her, but was only allowed to confirm her pregnancy by seven months. This week she was supposed to be at Wuhan Concorde Hospital for a check-up and decided to cancel the plan, given the large number of patients admitted to the hospital with pneumonia.
“护士告诉我，孕妇在病毒面前的抵抗力几乎为零。
"The nurse told me that the resistance of pregnant women to the virus was almost zero.
”小圆子说。
"said the little round.
家里人照顾非常周到，也没有家人被感染，环境相对安全。
The family was very considerate, no family members were infected and the environment was relatively safe.
但是前置胎盘孕妇在孕晚期存在大出血的风险，小圆子也担心如果在家里出现这种状况，去医院的话不知道能否快速找到，并且住进医院？“医院如果没有床位不收，我是不是得到处跑（去找医院）？”大部分武汉孕妇都和小圆子有着同样的担心。
But the placenta is at risk of bleeding in the late stages of pregnancy, and the baby is worried that if this happens at home, I won't be able to find it quickly and stay in a hospital.If the hospital doesn't have beds, do I have to run around [to the hospital]
一些关键产检不能做，在没有专家指导的情况下，如何自己判断出现的各种问题？如果有紧急情况需要去医院，能不能找到有条件收治的医院？怀孕37周的孕妇小影本来准备在武汉的大医院进行剖腹产。
If there is an emergency and need to go to a hospital, can you find a hospital where conditions can be met? The pregnant woman in the 37th week of pregnancy would have planned to have a Caesarean section at Wuhan's main hospital.
因为是二胎，胎儿又是“臀位”，“臀位就是胎儿的头在上面，很可能难产”。
Since it is a second child, the fetus is the "gluteal position," "hip position is the fetal head on top, is likely difficult labor."
但现在的形势让她根本不敢出门。
But the situation now made it impossible for her to go out.
“我现在迫切想知道到哪里生安全。
"I'm dying to know where it's safe to live.
我必须找一个最安全的地方生。
I have to find the safest place to live.
”小影说。
"said the shadow.
难解的孕妇“求医循环”根据武汉市统计局公布的数据，2018年武汉全市增加106610名新生儿。
Wuhan city added 106,610 newborns in 2018, according to figures released by Wuhan Municipal Bureau of Statistics.
一年10万新生人口，意味着在武汉这座大城市，平均每个月就有近9000个婴儿出生。
One hundred thousand births a year means that in Wuhan, a big city, nearly 9,000 babies are born every month on average.
纪录片《生门》中的场景。
Scenes from the documentary Shengmen.
目前武汉市规模比较大的三甲综合医院，比如协和医院、同济医院、中南医院、人民医院等，都是收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，也是平日里接收孕产妇相对比较多的医院。
At present, the large-scale Sanjia General Hospital in Wuhan, such as Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Zhongnan Hospital, People's Hospital, etc., are all designated hospitals for treating patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia, and are also those that receive relatively large numbers of women in general.
一些预产期临近的孕妇害怕感染，纷纷转向省妇幼保健院这样的专科医院，或者私立妇产医院。
Some expectant mothers, fearing infection, turn to specialized hospitals, such as provincial maternity homes, or to private maternity hospitals.
这些专科医院和私立妇产医院大多没有收治新冠病毒感染者，但相对于综合性医院，这些妇产医院的防护措施更少，接收的孕妇却更多，这导致医院收治孕妇前的检查也更为严格。
Most of these specialist hospitals and private maternity hospitals do not treat patients with the new crown virus, but they have fewer protective measures and receive more pregnant women than general hospitals, which leads to stricter pre-hospital screening of pregnant women.
小圆子说：“我认识的一个朋友，预产期2月份，她去了一家没有收治肺炎病人的私立医院预约生产。
"I know a friend who went to a private hospital in February to make an appointment for delivery without treating patients with pneumonia.
但是医院明确要求必须提供证明，证明自己经过检测没有感染新冠病毒才能收。
But the hospital specifically required proof that it had been tested for the virus before it could be collected.
”然而，对于孕妇来说，去不去开这个证明心里很矛盾。
"However, for pregnant women, the proof of whether to go or not is contradictory.
一方面，去综合性医院做检测，就面临感染新冠病毒的风险。
On the one hand, going to a general hospital for testing is at risk of contracting the new crown virus.
另一方面，普通医院用来检测新冠病毒感染的肺部CT检测，会产生对孕妇和胎儿有害的射线。
On the other hand, lung CT tests used in general hospitals to detect infection with the new crown virus produce radiation harmful to pregnant women and foetuses.
因此，孕妇只能选择去有核酸检测试剂盒的医院做检测。
As a result, pregnant women can only choose to be tested in hospitals with nucleic acid test kits.
截至2月8日，武汉市已有14家医院可以进行核酸检测，但由于检测试剂数量有限，大多不可以让孕妇优先检测。
As of February 8, 14 hospitals in Wuhan could be tested for nucleic acids, but because of the limited number of reagents tested, pregnant women could not be given priority for testing.
一些可以进行核酸检测的医院为减少排队人数，要求疑似病人先去社区医院检查，确认疑似后再携带报告来医院做核酸检测。
To reduce queuing, some hospitals where nucleic acid testing can be performed require suspected patients to go to a community hospital for tests, confirm suspicions and bring reports to the hospital for nucleic acid testing.
如此一来，为了拿到证明，孕妇们需辗转几个医院进行检测，被感染的风险大大提高。
As a result, pregnant women have to run through several hospitals to be tested for proof, increasing their risk of infection.
纪录片《生门》中的场景。
Scenes from the documentary Shengmen.
而对于那些已经出现感染症状的孕妇来说，在医院生产与治疗更是成为一个难以解开的“求医循环”。
For pregnant women who have developed symptoms of infection, hospital delivery and treatment is a difficult "cycle of seeking care."
根据武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组1月28日发布的《关于做好新冠肺炎疫情期间特殊病人医疗保障工作的通知》（下称《通知》），华中科技大学附属同济医院中法新城院区、华中科技大学附属协和医院西院、湖北省人民医院东院区和武汉市中心医院后湖院区是为确诊或疑似感染的孕产妇进行保健、手术的定点医院。
According to the Notice of the Medical Treatment Team of Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued on January 28, 2008, the hospital attached to Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, the Western Hospital of the Affiliated Concorde Hospital, Hubei Provincial People's Hospital and the Houhu Campus of Wuhan Central Hospital are designated hospitals for the care and operation of pregnant women with confirmed or suspected infection.
小飞的妻子告诉南都周刊，一般普通发热定点医院，只接收发热的普通的病人，不接收发热孕妇。
Xiao Fei's wife told Nandu Weekly, the general heating point hospital, only accept the fever of ordinary patients, do not accept febrile pregnant women.
她当时询问了几家普通发热定点医院，都没有被接收。
She asked several regular fever hospitals, but they were not taken in.
无奈之下，1月30日，小飞根据《通知》给出的定点医院名单，求助古田社区工作人员联系120救护车，带着妻子前往武汉市中心医院后湖院区。
On January 30, Xiao Fei asked Gutian community workers to contact 120 ambulances and take his wife to the Houhu courtyard of Wuhan city central hospital according to the list of designated hospitals given in the Notice.
然而，后湖医院的医护人员对小飞说，他们现在还在对发热病人进行转移，床位没有安排好，只能对孕妇进行简单的抽血和拍片孕检，没有接生的条件。
However, doctors and nurses at Houhu Hospital told Xiao Fei that they were still transferring febrile patients, that beds were not arranged and that pregnant women could only be given a simple blood sample and a pregnancy test, and that there were no conditions for delivery.
同样的情况也出现在其他三家定点接收发热孕妇的医院中。
The same is true of the other three hospitals that receive pregnant women with fever.
这些医院必须把其他病人腾出并且改造病房，使病房满足接收发热孕妇的条件，才能够确认接收和接生。
These hospitals must vacate other patients and reform wards so that they can meet the conditions for receiving pregnant women with fever before they can confirm admission and delivery.
在2月7日核实确认的信息中，《通知》指定的四家孕产妇定点医院里，华中科技大学附属同济医院中法新城院区可以接收治疗确诊的发热孕妇，但目前床位已满，该医院不能对疑似患者进行核酸检测，也不可以进行孕妇的产检和接生；武汉市中心医院后湖院区可以接收发热孕妇，目前床位已满，疑似孕妇住院后可以排队进行核酸检测，不可以进行孕妇产检和接生，核酸检测也有很多人排队。
Among the information confirmed by the 7 February verification, the four designated maternity hospitals in Tongji Hospital, affiliated with the Central University of Science and Technology, can receive treatment for confirmed febrile pregnant women, but the hospital is now full of beds for pregnant women with fever.
华中科技大学协和医院（本院）接收发热孕妇，要求孕妇前往发热门诊筛查后，视情况决定是否接收。
The Concorde Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology (the hospital) accepts pregnant women with fever and asks them to go to a fever clinic for screening.
在非官方指定的医院中，武汉湖北六七二中西医结合骨科医院、黄陂区人民医院、江夏区人民医院与武汉大学中南医院确认接收发热孕妇。
Among the unofficial designated hospitals, Wuhan Hubei 672 Combination Orthopaedic Hospital, Huangpi District People's Hospital, Jiangxia District People's Hospital and Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital confirmed the acceptance of pregnant women with fever.
但六七二中西医结合骨科医院只接收已经确诊的孕妇，仅中南医院和黄陂区人民医院可以为疑似孕妇进行核酸检测。
However, only confirmed pregnant women are admitted to the Combined Orthopaedic Hospital of both Chinese and Western Medicine. Only the Central and Southern Hospital and Huangpi District People's Hospital can test nucleic acid for suspected pregnant women.
“现在的情况就是如果孕妇不能确诊感染的话，就很难进定点医院做治疗，但是如果让孕妇到其他医院排队检测的话又很危险，因为孕妇的抵抗力低。
"The situation is that it's hard to get treatment in a referral hospital if you can't diagnose the infection, but it's dangerous to have pregnant women queued up at other hospitals because of the low resistance of pregnant women.
”小飞的妻子说。
"said Xiao Fei's wife.
互助支撑的高危孕妇们公共医疗资源紧张，疫情仍在肆虐，在通往顺利生产的路上，每个被困在武汉的孕妇都面临着巨大的不确定性。
With public health resources stretched to the limit and the disease still raging, Wuhan-bound pregnant women face enormous uncertainty as they make their way to a successful birth.
而对于流产率极高的高危孕妇来说，新冠病毒带来的影响更是普通人难以想象的。
For high-risk pregnant women with high abortion rates, the impact of the new crown virus is unimaginable.
高危孕妇，是指反复的以流产、胎停为妊娠的结局的孕妇群体。
High-risk pregnant women, refers to repeated abortion, the outcome of pregnancy to stop the pregnancy group.
小新是一名武汉的高危孕妇，她上一次怀孕在27周时出现胎停，检查之后，被确诊为非典型的抗磷脂综合症。
Xiaoxin, a high-risk pregnant woman in Wuhan, was diagnosed with atypical anti-phospholipid syndrome after a 27-week gestation.
“在武汉，有一些孕妇和我一样，在怀孕这件事情上很艰难，一路走的都很艰难。
"There are pregnant women in Wuhan who, like me, are having a difficult time getting pregnant and are having a hard time doing it all the way.
像我们这样的人，再次怀孕后，需要每周或每两周去产检一次，查各项指标，然后调整用药。
When we get pregnant again, we need to visit our doctor once a week or every two weeks, check the indicators, and then adjust the medication.
”小新这一次怀孕，从刚怀上就开始注射低分子肝素保胎，一天两针，同时还需要口服阿司匹林、优甲乐等其他药物。
"Xiaoxin became pregnant this time with a low-molecular-weight heparin injection two times a day from conception, along with other drugs such as aspirin and methylene terephthalate.
这些高危孕妇使用的保胎药基本都是处方药，必须去医院找医生开药后再从医院拿。
These high-risk pregnant women use abortion-preserving drugs are basically prescription drugs, have to go to the hospital to seek medicine from a doctor and then from the hospital.
小新皮肤上长期注射保胎针留下的淤青。
Small new skin long-term injection of foetus left bruising.
现在，湖北省妇幼保健院已经关闭了小新之前做保胎的科室。
Now, Hubei maternal and child health care hospital has closed the small new before doing foetal departments.
从怀孕第19周起，小新就再没有去过医院，至今已有半个多月。
Since the 19th week of pregnancy, Xiaoxin has not been to the hospital, has been more than half a month.
封城之前，她囤了一些低分子肝素，够用十几天，但这之后怎么办？“现在就算去医院，因为科室停诊，我也没办法把药开出来。
Before sealing the city, she hoarded some low-molecular-weight heparin for ten days, but what happens afterwards "Now I can't prescribe it even if I go to the hospital because the hospital is closed.
”小新加入了一个武汉高危孕妇建立的微信群。
Xiaoxin joined a microcosm group set up in Wuhan by high-risk pregnant women.
群里，每个人都很焦虑迷茫。
Everyone in the group was anxious and confused.
一些情况类似的孕妇，已经将原本一天两次低分子肝素的注射量，改为一天一针，甚至隔天一针。
Some pregnant women with similar conditions have switched from two doses of low-molecular-weight heparin twice a day to one shot a day, or even every other day.
但减少药量是否会导致胎停，甚至给自己带来危险，她们也很担心。
But they are also worried about whether cutting back on drugs could lead to a halt or even pose a danger to themselves.
疫情发生后，小新在家哭了很多次。
After the outbreak, Xiao Xin cried at home many times.
她不停地在网上翻查相关新闻，睡眠也变得非常差。
She keeps searching the news on the Internet and getting very bad sleep.
“每天都是凌晨两点才睡着，夜里还做噩梦。
"I fell asleep at two in the morning and had nightmares at night.
”焦虑不安的孕妇们在群里互相交流保胎经验，互相打气，尽可能的互相帮助。
Anxious pregnant women shared their experiences in the group, encouraged each other and helped each other as much as they could.
在微博上看到武汉有被感染的孕妇求助，她们就会在微博上帮她们呼救，帮她们联系可以接收的医院、拨打市长热线。
Seeing infected pregnant women turn to Wuhan for help on Weibo, they call for help on Weibo, help them contact an acceptable hospital, call the mayor's hotline.
遇到情况很紧急的孕妇，她们还会送出二甲双胍，芬吗通雌二醇和地屈孕酮这样的保胎药物。
Metformin, fentanyl, estradiol and diprogesterone are also given to pregnant women in emergency situations.
志愿者建立的“湖北孕妇咨询群”和“武汉留守孕妈群”幸运的是，有很多志愿者和医生组织正在通过多种方式，帮助武汉孕妇解决困难。
Volunteer groups such as Hubei Pregnant Women's Consulting Group and Wuhan Remaining Pregnant Mothers Fortunately, there are many volunteer and doctor's organizations helping Wuhan pregnant women cope with these difficulties in many ways.
贵州省遵义市妇幼保健院生殖医学科的韩磊医生建立了12个湖北孕妇咨询群，组织20-30名医生每天在线上对湖北省的孕妇们提出的问题进行回答。
Han Lei, of the Department of Reproductive Medicine at Zunyi Maternal and Child Health Center in Guizhou Province, set up 12 consultation groups of pregnant women in Hubei province and organized 20-30 doctors to answer questions from pregnant women in Hubei province online every day.
湖北的孕产妇可关注公众号“遵医道 行仁义”咨询加群事宜。
Hubei pregnant women can pay attention to the public number "Adherence Medical Road benevolence" advisory group matters.
韩磊说：“在疫情期间，既不能草木皆兵，遇到什么问题都去医院，也不能讳疾忌医，出了很多问题也不去产检。
"During the outbreak, you can't go to the hospital with any problems, you can't avoid doctors, you don't have to go to the clinic when you have a lot of problems," said Han Lei.
因为过度医疗会浪费医疗资源，增加传染风险，而漏诊是更要不得的，可能危及母儿生命健康。
Because overtreatment wastes medical resources and increases the risk of infection, missed diagnosis is even more necessary and can endanger the life and health of the mother and child.
为了尽快及时解决这个突出的矛盾，我们组建了湖北孕妇咨询群。
In order to solve this outstanding contradiction as soon as possible, we set up Hubei pregnant women consultation group.
”“我在第一时间利用我们现有的同行学术交流群，在群里发布公告，希望更多的同行加入，因为这需要大量的医生。
"" I first used our existing community of peer-to-peer academics to post announcements in the group in the hope that more colleagues would join us, as that would require a large number of doctors.
”韩磊说，现在每天群里都有更多的志愿者加入，这些志愿者来自全国的妇产科同行，有医生、护士也有助产士。
Every day, more volunteers from around the country come from gynecology and obstetrics colleagues, doctors, nurses and midwives, said Han Lei.
另外一群自发汇集的专业志愿者组成的“nCoV支援行动”，希望帮助武汉及周边疫区居家隔离的新冠肺炎（疑似）患者及家属。
Another group of self-assembled professional volunteers, the "nCoV Support Campaign," hopes to help families and patients with SARS isolated from their homes in Wuhan and surrounding affected areas.
其中，“nCoV～武汉留守孕妈群”，是这一行动中专门负责帮助有需要的孕妇联系医院和相关机构的小组。
Among them, "nCoV ~ Wuhan stay in the pregnant mother group," is the operation dedicated to helping pregnant women in need contact hospitals and related institutions.
湖北的孕产妇可关注微博账号@nCoV支援 咨询加群事宜。
Hubei pregnant women can pay attention to Weibo account @ nCoV support group matters.
“nCoV支援～武汉留守孕妈群”的负责人表示，已经有很多武汉的普通孕妇在私立医院或者专科医院成功生产，也有和小飞妻子一样的感染孕妇得到了帮助。
"nCoV support ~ Wuhan stay-at-home pregnant mothers" said many Wuhan ordinary pregnant women have given birth successfully in private hospitals or specialized hospitals, while others, like Xiao Fei's wife, have received help.
小组志愿者每两天整理一次医院信息，他们每天都收到大量的求助，也在通过各种渠道帮助武汉孕妇解决困难。
Once every two days, the group of volunteers organized the hospital information, they received a large number of help every day, also through various channels to help Wuhan pregnant women solve the difficulties.
现在，nCoV志愿者们已经筹集并寄送了一批必需的药品给有需要的高危孕妇。
Now, nCoV volunteers have raised and sent essential drugs to high-risk pregnant women in need.
小新也在强迫自己有规律地生活作息，让自己放松下来：“大家一起互相加油打气，说武汉一定会好的，咱们一定可以战胜这个病毒的。
Xiaoxin is also forcing himself to live a regular life and relax: "Together we refuel each other, saying Wuhan will be fine, we can certainly overcome the virus.
”“等疫情过后，欢迎大家都来武汉玩儿，吃热干面，吃鸭脖子。
"" After the epidemic, we are all welcome to Wuhan to play, eat hot dry noodles, eat duck neck.
”小圆子笑着说。
"said the little round man with a smile.
截止2月8日，南都周刊通过电话联系，确认武汉市有44家医院接收普通孕妇，有35家医院可以为普通孕妇接生，5家医院接收发热孕妇，其中3家医院确定可以为发热孕妇接生。
As of February 8, Nandu Weekly contacted by telephone and confirmed that there were 44 hospitals for pregnant women in Wuhan, 35 hospitals for pregnant women in general, and 5 hospitals for pregnant women with fever, 3 of which were sure to deliver pregnant women with fever.
同时，武汉市卫健委也于近期公布了44家助产机构名单，满足众多孕妇的产检、分娩需求。
Meanwhile, Wuhan Health Commission recently published a list of 44 midwifery institutions to meet the needs of many pregnant women for check-ups and childbirth.
（应被采访者要求，文中人物皆为化名。
(At the request of the interviewee, the characters are aliases.
）附：44家助产机构名单（来源：长江日报）点击下方链接可以获取最新确认的武汉医院信息（来源：凤凰网）武汉医院信息https://shimo.im/sheets/hPg9t9xT6GtkC3p8/MODOC?source=timeline&dt_dapp=1&from=timeline&isappinstalled=0来源｜南都周刊END欢迎分享到朋友圈，如想取得授权请邮件：newmedia@nbweekly.com。
Wuhan Hospital information https: / / shimo.im / sheets / hPg9t9xT6GtkC3p8 / MODOC? source = timeline & campaign; dt _ dapp = 1 & ampp; from _ dapp = 1 & ampp; from from = timeline & amp; ppt = 0.
如果想找到小南，可以在后台回复「小南」试试看哦~ 。
If you want to find Xiao Nan, you can reply to "Xiao Nan" in the background.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
留守武汉的孕产妇：新生命的到来拦不住。
Wuhan left behind the maternity: the arrival of new life can not stop.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "南都周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "留守武汉的孕产妇：新生命的到来拦不住";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情中艰难撑起的“生门”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; in the epidemic.
var title ="南都周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
