“发热”的黄冈：750万人仅一家三甲医院，县乡自救。
"Fever" Huanggang: 7.5 million people only a three-A hospital, county and township self-help.
李玉楼。
Yulou Li.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年1月29日，武警湖北总队黄冈支队官兵为担负隔离任务的黄冈市大别山区域医疗中心抢运物资。
January 29, 2020, the armed police Hubei team Huanggang detachment for the task of separation Huanggang City Dabie Mountain Regional Medical Center to rush supplies.
（新华社/图）全文共2888字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text of 2,888 words will take about seven minutes to read.
“我之前从来没在卫生院里看到过防护服。
"I've never seen protective clothing in a clinic before.
”刘河镇卫生院获得的第一批防护物资是在1月27日抵达的。
The first batch of protective gear obtained by Liu He Town Health Center arrived on January 27.
刘河镇是黄冈乡镇防疫现状的一个缩影，黄冈市第二人民医院派来了五名医护人员支援发热门诊，这已是上级医院所能提供的至多支持。
Liuhe Town is a microcosm of the current situation of township epidemic prevention in Huanggang. Five medical staff from Huanggang Second People's Hospital have come to support the fever clinic.
此后两周里，这座城市的确诊病例迅速从0飙升至1645，将这个以高考闻名的地级市变成了新冠肺炎的“疫情副中心”。
Over the next two weeks, the city's confirmed cases soared from 0 to 1645, turning the city, known as the college entrance exam, into a "vice center" for pneumonia.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李玉楼责任编辑 | 吴筱羽2020年1月31日，黄冈市蕲春县刘河镇卫生院的发热病房交付了。
Not allowed to reproduce this article without authorization at Southern Weekend, LiYuLou, a reporter from Southern Weekend, was delivered to the Heating Ward of Liu Ho Town Health Center, Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County, Huanggang City, on 31 January 2020.
病房建在一处驾校内，在1200平米的板房中设置了8个集装箱，这是这个小镇的“小汤山医院”，据称能安置40位病人。
The ward, built on a campus with eight containers in a 1,200-square-metre slab room, is the town's "Xiaotangshan Hospital" and is said to be able to accommodate 40 patients.
这是病毒学家周荣出的主意，他是刘河镇人，目前是钟南山团队的核心成员。
This is the idea of virologist Zhou Rongcheng, a native of Liu He, is now a core member of Zhong Nan Shan team.
1月25日，周荣从广州驱车至黄冈，应邀参加防疫工作，他提出了将防控关口前移至社区医疗中心和乡镇卫生院先隔离的思路。
On January 25, Zhou Rong drove from Guangzhou to Huanggang, where he was invited to participate in the epidemic prevention efforts.
次日，刘河镇政府收到了新建集装箱医院的命令。
The next day, Liu He township government received the new container hospital order.
彼时，刘河镇卫生院已有四名医务人员疑似感染新型冠状病毒，乡镇卫生院不具备传染病隔离条件，而该县三家定点医院早已人满为患。
At that time, Liu He Town Hospital has four medical staff suspected of contracting the new coronavirus, township hospitals do not have the conditions for the isolation of infectious diseases, and the county's three designated hospitals are already overcrowded.
1月23日，武汉和黄冈相继封城，封锁线很快延至县城和乡村，乡村患者无法外出就医。
Wuhan and Huanggang were closed on January 23, and the blockade was quickly extended to counties and villages, leaving rural patients unable to seek medical treatment.
分级诊疗金字塔尖的三甲医院自顾不暇，重症患者转诊无望，县乡医院不得不承担起兜底收治的功能，成为基层抵抗疫情的小堡垒。
With no hope of referral, county and township hospitals have to assume the function of taking care of patients and become small bastions of grass-roots resistance to the epidemic.
1月27日，黄冈市将定点发热门诊扩大至127家，新增了大量乡镇卫生院。
On 27 January, the city of Huanggang expanded the number of designated fever clinics to 127, adding a large number of township hospitals.
事实上，在此之前，他们已经承担起救治任务。
In fact, before that, they had taken care of it.
1镇里建起“小汤山”刘河镇卫生院的第一例高疑似病例出现在1月23日，次日即传出该院全部医护人员被感染，医院关停的消息。
"Xiaotangshan" Liu He Town Health Center in the town of the first high-suspected case occurred on January 23, the next day all the hospital staff were infected, the hospital closed the news.
该院副院长康奎雨随后回应媒体称，该院有四名医务人员出现发热，其中包括该院院长汪东方，但医院仍在正常接诊。
The hospital's deputy director, Conquest, subsequently responded to media reports that the hospital was still receiving regular treatment after fever among four medical staff, including the hospital's director, Wang Dong.
刘河镇是蕲春县数一数二的大镇，刘河镇卫生院有180位医务人员，这一规模的医疗机构，在这场疫情中承担起了重要的责任。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon is one of the largest towns in Agkistrodon County. The Liu Hezhen Medical Institute has 180 medical staff. The medical institution of this scale has played an important role in the outbreak.
李萌是刘河镇卫生院护士，据她介绍，第一例病人是通过CT筛查出来的，当时大家已经提高警惕，患者立马就隔离了，然而还是有同事中招了。
Li Meng, a nurse at the Liu River Town Health Center, said the first patient was screened through a CT scan, and the patient was immediately quarantined when her colleagues admitted it.
“我之前从来没在卫生院里看到过防护服。
"I've never seen protective clothing in a clinic before.
”李萌告诉南方周末记者，刘河镇卫生院获得的第一批防护物资是在1月27日抵达的。
Li told Southern Weekend that the first batch of protective materials obtained by the Liu He Town Health Center arrived on January 27.
作为有99000人的大镇，刘河镇卫生院的病房里很快住满了发热患者，“除夕夜就快二十个了，此后转进转出，现在还有三十来个”。
As a large town of 99,000 people, the ward of Liu He Town Health Center was soon filled with fever sufferers. "It's nearly twenty on New Year's Eve, and since then it has moved in and out, there are still about thirty."
卫生院没有隔离条件，只能轻症跟轻症放在一块，重症跟重症放在一块儿，病房也来不及按照传染病房的标准进行改造。
There is no isolation conditions, can only light disease and light disease put together, severe and severe together with serious illness, ward can not according to the standards of infectious disease room for transformation.
1月27日，周荣有关防控关口前移的建议被黄冈市采纳。
On January 27, Zhou Rong on the prevention and control of the forward movement of the proposed Huanggang City adopted.
当天，刘河镇镇长傅正锋接到县防疫指挥部的命令，要在两天内建一个临时发热门诊，但县里只能拨付部分资金，剩余的需要自筹。
On the same day, Liu Town Mayor Fu Zhengfeng received the county epidemic prevention command order to build a temporary fever clinic within two days, but the county can only allocate part of the funds, the remaining needs to self-financing.
傅正锋只能转求在外乡贤，通过蕲春各地商会筹得180余万现金和80万元物资，新建的发热病房在1月31日交付使用后，新增患者全部安置在集装箱病房中。
The Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Court is seeking more than 1.8 million dollars in cash and 800,000 yuan from chambers of commerce all over the country. The new heating ward was commissioned on January 31 and all the new patients are housed in the container ward.
带着核酸检测仪器回到蕲春的周荣计划在当地组建检测实验室，蕲春县人民医院副院长1月29日接受采访时表示该院已经具备检测能力，但2月4日湖北省卫健委公布的检测机构名单中却未见该院。
However, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon said in an interview on 29 January.
刘河镇卫生院工作人员告诉南方周末记者，该院不具备确诊权，但可以利用仪器进行初筛。
Liuhe Town Health Center staff told Southern Weekend reporter, the hospital does not have the right to diagnose, but can use the instrument for screening.
周荣的回乡和新病房的建立，提振了刘河镇乡亲的信心，“全县唯独刘河能新建起临时病房，”一位参与建设的当地居民告诉南方周末记者，“主要是因为我们镇出人才，既有专家，又有老板。
Zhou's return home and the establishment of a new ward boosted the confidence of his countrymen. "The only temporary ward in the county is the Liu River," a local resident involved in construction told Southern Weekend. "It's mainly because we have talented people from the town, both experts and bosses.
”2“疫情副中心”刘河镇是黄冈乡镇防疫现状的一个缩影，黄冈市第二人民医院派来了五名医护人员支援发热门诊。
Liu He Zhen, the "epidemic sub-center," epitomizes the current situation of township epidemic prevention in Huanggang. Five medical staff from the Huanggang Second People's Hospital have come to support the fever clinic.
这已是上级医院所能提供的至多支持。
This is as much support as the parent hospital can provide.
距离武汉更近的黄冈市区和那里的上级医院，更早接受了病毒挑战，以至于在这场防疫作战中自顾不暇。
The city of Huanggang, closer to Wuhan, and its superior hospital, have been challenged by the virus even earlier, to the point of being overwhelmed by the epidemic.
这场发端自武汉的疫情在2019年12月8日开始出现。
The outbreak, which started in Wuhan, began on December 8, 2019.
2020年1月10日，黄冈市中心医院发现了医务人员被感染，该院是黄冈市唯一的三甲医院。
On 10 January 2020, the infection was detected at the Huanggang Central Hospital, the only triple-A hospital in Huanggang City.
一周后，黄冈下辖区县医院的发热病人出现激增。
A week later, fever cases surged in the district hospital in the district of Huanggang.
黄冈市已是除武汉外首个通报出现确诊病例的湖北城市，但病毒的出现事实上来得更早。
Huanggang is the first city in Hubei province to report a confirmed case, except Wuhan, but the virus appeared earlier.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科主任彭志勇日前向媒体透露，1月6日，他所在的医院接诊了一名来自黄冈的病人，当时已是重症。
Peng Zhiyong, director of severe medicine at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, told reporters January 6 that his hospital had admitted a patient from Huanggang, who was seriously ill at the time.
1月10日，一位家住黄冈市蕲春县的孕妇发病，当天辗转黄冈市区四所医院后住进了武汉大学中南医院，并被确诊为不明原因肺炎。
On January 10, a Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon County was diagnosed with pneumonia on January 10 and was admitted to the Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University after passing through four hospitals on the same day.
公开报道中，最早被感染的黄冈医务人员是在黄冈市中心医院工作的护士董春风，她在1月7日出现发烧、咳嗽等症状，1月10日出现呼吸困难后住院。
Huang Chunfeng, a nurse working at the central hospital in Huanggang, was among the first to be infected. She developed fever, cough and other symptoms on January 7 and was hospitalized on January 10 after having difficulty breathing.
当黄冈市在1月19日获得第一批试剂盒时，董春风的病情已基本缓解，1月22日就基本痊愈了。
When the city of Huanggang received its first kits on January 19, Dong Chunfeng's condition was basically alleviated, and he basically recovered on January 22.
就在董春风患病入院的这十几天中，黄冈市区的医院迎来了发热病人激增，1月14日，发烧且肺部感染的患者张庆已经需要在黄冈市中医院排队等候床位。
On January 14, Zhang Qing, a patient with a fever and lung infection, had to wait in line at the Huanggang Chinese Hospital.
至1月中旬，黄冈市内的各大医院实际上已经如临大敌，但家住在中心医院附近的林杉却未有丝毫察觉。
By mid-January, hospitals in Huanggang were virtually at risk, but none of the fir trees that lived near the central hospital were aware of it.
林杉1月18日从外地回到黄冈，彼时黄冈市区还没有任何异常，大街上看不到一个戴口罩的人。
The trees returned to Huanggang on January 18, when there was no sign of any abnormality in the city and no one wearing a mask was visible on the street.
直至1月20日下午，林杉在前往中心医院对面药房买药时，发现药店柜员戴起了口罩。
Until the afternoon of January 20, when the wood fir went to the pharmacy opposite the central hospital to buy medicine, he found the drugstore teller wearing a mask.
次日，大街上才出现零星戴口罩的行人。
Only the next day, sporadic pedestrians wearing masks appeared on the street.
药店柜员戴起口罩的晚上，钟南山在央视连线中明确了新冠病毒会“人传人”。
Drug store teller put on a mask night, Zhong Nan Shan in CCTV cable made clear that the new crown virus will "person-to-person."
一场风暴正在黄冈这座紧邻武汉的城市酝酿，此后两周里，这座城市的确诊病例迅速从0飙升至1645，将这个以高考闻名的地级市变成了新冠肺炎的“疫情副中心”。
Two weeks after a storm brewed in the city of Huanggang, next to Wuhan, the city's confirmed cases soared from 0 to 1645, turning the city - known for its college entrance exams - into an "outbreak sub-centre" for pneumonia.
3处理、处分党员干部337人黄冈确实被疫情搞懵了。
Handling and disposing of 337 party cadres Huanggang was really stunned by the epidemic.
这座拥有750万人口的湖北人口第二大市，仅有一家三甲医院，春节前涌入的60万武汉返乡者为疫情暴发积蓄了巨大的隐患。
With Hubei, the second most populous city with a population of 7.5 million, there is only one triple-A hospital, and the influx of 600,000 Wuhan returnees before the Spring Festival has created a huge risk for the outbreak.
距武汉78公里的黄冈市与武汉联系紧密，高铁最快仅需要27分钟即可到达，百度地图提供的数据显示，武汉封城的前三天，黄冈均位居武汉出行目的地第二位，占比13%左右。
The city of Huanggang, 78 kilometers from Wuhan, is closely connected to Wuhan, which takes as little as 27 minutes to reach, and Baidu map shows that during the first three days of Wuhan, Huanggang ranked second in terms of travel destinations, accounting for about 13 percent.
1月24日，黄冈市拿到用于检测试剂盒的第二天，该市疾控中心发布求助信息，这一承担全黄冈新冠肺炎检测任务的机构只有一台RT-PCR仪器，希望社会捐赠仪器和三级防护装备，一套仪器和耗材的费用大致在35万元左右。
On January 24, the day after the city of Huanggang received the kit, the city's CDC issued a call for help. The agency tasked with testing all-Hwanggang New Crown Pneumonia has only one RT-PCR instrument. It is hoped that the cost of a set of instruments and consumables will be around $350,000.
按照黄冈市副市长陈少敏的说法，1月20日检测权下放至黄冈市，但没有拿到检测试剂盒，23日拿到试剂盒后，又面临人员不足等问题。
According to Chen Shaomin, deputy mayor of Huanggang, the right to be tested was decentralized to the city of Huanggang on January 20, but the test kit was not available.
2月2日之前，黄冈下辖各县中只有浠水、麻城、蕲春县确诊病例激增，原因在于，这几个县当时拥有了核酸检测能力。
It is indicated that it is indicated that Agkistrodon acutus acutus in these areas are believed to have a high incidence of these these days because of their ability to detect nucleic acid.
每天能检测多少样本？到底有多少张床位？收治了多少病患？1月29日之前，鲜少有黄冈官员能搞清楚这些问题。
How many samples can be tested each day? How many beds are there? How many patients have been admitted? Before January 29, few Huanggang officials were able to understand these problems.
当天，时任黄冈市卫健委主任唐志红在面对中央督查组提问时，表示自己不掌握这些数据。
On the same day, Huang Zhihong, then-director of the Huanggang City Health Committee, said he did not have the data when asked the central inspection team.
或正因如此，黄冈市直至1月24日才决定征用大别山医学中心作为隔离医院，此前仅划拨三家小型医疗机构用作隔离，仅三百余张床位。
That is why the city of Huanggang did not decide until January 24 to use the Dabie Mountain Medical Center as a separate hospital, having previously allocated only three small medical institutions for isolation, with more than 300 beds.
黄冈市长邱丽新在1月31日的新闻发布会上回答了数字问题：及时发现发热病人4726人，筹措了4200张床位，每日的核酸检测能力达到400例。
In a news conference on January 31, Huang Lixin, the governor of Huanggang, answered the numbers: 4,726 febrile patients were identified in time, 4,200 beds were raised and the daily nucleic acid detection capacity reached 400.
邱丽新还介绍，1月22日至1月31日累计出动了3497人次开展监察检查，检查重点部位和场所6416处，处理、处分党员干部337人。
From January 22 to January 31, a total of 3,497 people were dispatched to conduct inspections, 6,416 inspections of key sites and sites, and 337 Party cadres were handled and disciplined, Qiu Lixin said.
值得注意的是，其中一半以上是1月30日中央电视台播出唐志红“一问三不知”之后作出的处分，其中包含大量乡镇和村级干部。
It is worth noting that more than half of them, including a large number of township and village officials, were sanctioned on 30 January when CCTV broadcast Tang Chi-hong's "Three Questions and Don't Know."
唐志红被提名免职当天，大别山医疗中心投入运营。
The Dabie Mountain Medical Center opened on the day Mr Tang was nominated for dismissal.
2月4日，黄冈市区全部确诊病例均转入该集中收治点。
On 4 February, all confirmed cases in the Huanggang district were transferred to the central treatment centre.
而蕲春县刘河镇的患者，则从1月31日后就陆续住进了新建的刘河镇“小汤山”。
However, the Agkistrodon acutus Agkistrodon County has been living in the newly built town of "Xiaotangshan" since January 31.
刘河镇卫生院一名工作人员告诉南方周末记者，卫生院一级没有试剂盒，对经过血象和CT初筛的轻症患者按照新冠肺炎诊疗，重症患者才送往县医院确诊。
Liuhe Town Health Center staff told Southern Weekend reporter, the hospital level did not have a kit, after blood imaging and CT screening of light patients according to the new crown pneumonia, patients sent to the county hospital for diagnosis.
这意味着，庞大的黄冈乡镇卫生院中，仍然还有相当数量的未确诊病例。
This means that there are still a considerable number of undiagnosed cases in the huge township hospitals in Huanggang.
蕲春县人民医院已经预料到可能从卫生院涌来的病患，2月2日，该院将外科大楼全部腾空，按照感染病房进行改造，新增了400张床位，截止到2月4日24时，蕲春县累计确诊153例。
On February 2, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital anticipated a possible influx of patients from the health centre. On February 2, the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Agkistrodon Court vacated the building on February 2 and has adapted it to the infection ward.
（应受访者要求，李萌、张庆、林杉为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Li Meng, Zhang qing, Lin Sui as an alias, called Southern Weekend, are now openly soliciting news leads from all readers on the frontline of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）。
I am writing to inform you that your personal information will be kept confidential and that your phone number will be kept confidential.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“发热”的黄冈：750万人仅一家三甲医院，县乡自救。
"Fever" Huanggang: 7.5 million people only a three-A hospital, county and township self-help.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "“发热”的黄冈：750万人仅一家三甲医院，县乡自救";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
