探访雷神山医院：严防交叉感染，收治首批转运患者。
Visit Lui Shen Shan Hospital: Prevent cross-infection and treat the first batch of transporters.
南方周末记者。
Southern Weekend Journalist.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月8日晚，武汉雷神山医院收治第一批转运来的新冠肺炎患者。
On the night of February 8, Wuhan Raytheon Hill Hospital admitted the first batch of patients transferred to the New Crown Pneumonia.
（新华社/图 ）全文共2708字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2708 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
所有设备调试完毕后，雷神山医院感染一科十五、十六病区将迎来第一批患者。
After debugging all the equipment, Lei Shenshan Hospital infected with a section of 15, 16 disease areas will usher in the first patients.
湖北省肿瘤医院的一位医生告诉南方周末记者，最初几天的患者将以轻症为主，来自市内的各家医院。
A doctor at Hubei Oncology Hospital told Southern Weekend that patients in the first few days would come mainly from hospitals in the city.
防止交叉感染理念体现在了雷神山医院设计中。
The idea of preventing cross-infection is embodied in the design of Lei Shenshan Hospital.
医院平面设计图显示，每个隔离病区呈鱼骨状分布，中间是医护通道和医护工作区，病房分布在两侧。
Hospital plans showed that each isolated area was divided into fishbone-like areas with medial access and medical work areas, with wards located on both sides.
医院可进行核酸检测，核酸检测位于医院的“心脏”医技楼。
The hospital can carry out nucleic acid testing, nucleic acid testing in the hospital's "heart" medical building.
进入雷神山医院“万人食堂”前，工人必须脱帽接受体温检测。
Before entering the "ten thousand canteen" of Lei Shenshan Hospital, the worker must take off his hat to take temperature test.
食堂内部没有椅子，工作人员用喇叭循环播放“排好队，吃饭不许说话，吃完立即离开”。
There are no chairs inside the canteen, staff members with a loudspeaker cycle playing "lined up, eat not to talk, eat immediately left."
2月8日元宵节，工作人员煮了三大锅汤圆，很快就被工人们分光。
February 8 Lantern Festival, the staff cooked three large pot of soup Yuan, soon by the workers spectroscopic.
他们希望，这些汤圆能让工人们感受到节日的温暖。
They hope the dumplings will help workers feel the warmth of the holiday.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平 王伟凯 崔慧莹责任编辑 | 曹海东顾策火神山医院收治首批患者4天后，2月8日，雷神山医院正式交付使用。
This article began at Southern Weekend and was not allowed to reproduce without authorization. Li Shenshan Hospital was officially opened on February 8, four days after the first patients were admitted to Cao Haidong Guocheng Mountain Hospital.
8日晚20时，武汉雷神山医院收治了第一批转运过来的新冠肺炎患者。
8 night 20, Wuhan Lei Shenshan Hospital received the first batch of patients transferred from the New Crown Pneumonia.
这是“新冠肺炎”疫情发生后，武汉按照北京“小汤山”模式专门新建的第二家医院，全院共设床位1500张，只有住院，不设门诊。
This is the "new crown pneumonia" outbreak, Wuhan in accordance with Beijing's "Xiaotangshan" model dedicated to a new hospital, 1,500 beds, only hospital, no outpatient.
2月8日上午，南方周末记者来到位于武汉江夏区的雷神山医院探访，已有两个病区基本调试完毕。
February 8 morning, Southern Weekend reporters in Wuhan Jiangxia District, Lei Shenshan Hospital visit, has two basic debugging areas.
但根据现场的施工情况，整个雷神山医院完全投入使用，尚需一段时间。
However, according to the construction of the site, the whole Raytheon Hill Hospital fully operational, it will take some time.
“火神山和雷神山医院的最大优点，就是能够接收大量的病人。
"The best thing about Mount Fire and Raytheon Mountain hospitals is that they are able to take in large numbers of patients.
将这些患者集中收治，切断传染源，也就减少了疫情传播的可能。
Concentrating these patients and cutting off the source of infection also reduces the likelihood of the outbreak spreading.
”此前，一所军医大学援鄂医疗队首席专家告诉南方周末记者。
"Earlier, a leading expert on medical support team Hubei University told Southern Weekend reporter.
1设备正最后调试，两病区将迎首批患者2月8日上午，雷神山医院项目已进入最后施工阶段。
Debugging equipment is in the final stages, the two disease areas will welcome the first patients February 8 morning, Raytheon Hill Hospital project has entered the final construction phase.
一幢幢白色板房被载有土方与建筑材料的车辆包围，路边堆着PVC管，施工人员正在忙碌施工。
The white slabs were surrounded by vehicles carrying earth and building materials, and PVC pipes were stacked along the road.
雷神山医院项目已进入最后的施工阶段，施工人员正在板房外忙碌。
Lei Shenshan Hospital project has entered the final construction phase, construction personnel are busy outside the slab room.
（南方周末记者 马肃平/图）雷神山医院的南侧本是军运会的运动员驻地，外围还有大量没有开张的商铺；医院北侧栏杆后面是大片建设中的白色活动板房。
(Southern Weekend reporter Ma Su Ping / Tu) The southern side of Lei Shenshan Hospital was originally the athletes' residence of the military sports meet, and there were a large number of unopened shops on the outskirts.
感染一科十五、十六病区位于最北侧，均处于收尾阶段，即将接收第一批患者。
Infection area 15, 16 in the northernmost area, are in the final stage, about to receive the first patients.
2月5日，首批医疗队成员就率先进驻这里。
On 5 February, the first members of the medical team were among the first to arrive.
“病区中午12点就要封闭了。
The sick area will be closed at twelve o'clock.
”一位身着白大褂的医生匆匆告诉南方周末记者。
A doctor in a white coat hurriedly told Southern Weekend reporter.
病区内，至少十余位医护人员正在病房和走廊间穿梭，有的检查标识标牌，有的调试医疗设备。
At least a dozen health-care workers are shuttling through the wards and corridors, checking signs and adjusting medical equipment.
感染一科十五病区外景。
Infected one of the 15 disease areas outside.
（南方周末记者 马肃平/图）武汉市第一医院医疗队负责医务工作的柯于鹤正在检查病房里的地漏。
(Southern Weekend reporter Ma Su Ping / Tu) Koyu crane, a medical team in charge of medical work at Wuhan First Hospital, is inspecting the floor leak in the ward.
“因为赶工期，很多小细节还需要调整。
"There are many small details that need to be adjusted because of the schedule.
”他告诉南方周末记者，病区交付意味着“外壳”搭建完毕，内部的医疗设备、电脑等都需要医护人员自己准备，布置病房这样的工作，也只有医护人员才能搞定。
He told Southern Weekend that delivery meant the "shell" was in place, that medical equipment, computers and the like needed to be prepared by medical staff, and that only medical staff could handle the work.
雷神山医院感染一科十五病区。
Lei Shenshan Hospital infected a 15-disease area.
（南方周末记者 王伟凯/图）“昨天下午和晚上，光是设备和医用物资，我们就搬了六七车。
(Southern Weekend reporter Wang Weikai / Tu) "Yesterday afternoon and evening, we moved 67 carts of equipment and medical supplies alone.
”柯于鹤说，病房内各通道的操作流程，只有医护人员亲自走过一遍才能发现问题所在。
'The flow of the passages in the ward can only be detected if the paramedics walk through it, 'says Mr. Koyu-Ho.
有医生即在检查中发现，一间病房的紫外线缺了2根灯管。
A doctor is found in the examination, the ultraviolet ray of a ward is missing 2 lamp tube.
还有护士发现缓冲间的门装反了，这可能导致医患交叉感染，这些小问题都会在检查中予以更正。
Nurses also found that the door in the buffer room was upside down, which could lead to cross-infection between doctors and patients, all of which would be corrected during the check-up.
2月6日上午，柯于鹤就进驻了雷神山医院。
On the morning of February 6, Koyue He entered the Raytheon Hill Hospital.
首批医疗队共110余人，由湖北省肿瘤医院和武汉市第一医院骨干力量组成。
The first batch of 110 medical teams was composed of cadres from Hubei Province Oncology Hospital and Wuhan First Hospital.
柯于鹤告诉南方周末记者，一些医护人员此前不幸感染，加上本院还有病人，最近所有健康的医护人员几乎全部上岗了。
Koyue He told Southern Weekend that some medical staff had been unlucky enough to get infected, and that the hospital still had patients.
还处于施工阶段的接诊中心。
Referral centres are also under construction.
（南方周末记者 马肃平/图）所有设备调试完毕后，感染一科十五、十六病区将迎来第一批患者。
(Southern Weekend reporter Ma Su Ping / map) After debugging all the equipment, infected with a 15, 16 disease area will usher in the first patients.
湖北省肿瘤医院的一位医生告诉南方周末记者，最初几天的患者将以轻症为主，来自市内的各家医院。
A doctor at Hubei Oncology Hospital told Southern Weekend that patients in the first few days would come mainly from hospitals in the city.
医生将按照《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第五版）》对症治疗。
Doctors will seek symptomatic treatment under the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Scheme (Trial Version 5).
2多处设计防止交叉感染，可进行核酸检测资料显示，雷神山医院共设床位1500张，包括2个重症医学科病区、3个亚重症病区和27个普通病区。
More than 2 designs prevent cross-infection, can carry out nucleic acid test data shows that Lei Shenshan Hospital has 1500 beds, including 2 severe medical disease areas, 3 sub-severe disease areas and 27 common disease areas.
除重症病区外，病房均为2人间。
Except for the critical area, the ward is 2 rooms.
南方周末记者注意到，感染一科十六病区共有53张床位。
Southern Weekend reporter noticed that 16 infected area of a total of 53 beds.
每个病房内都摆放有两张病床，安装有空调和电视，均设独立卫生间，里面有坐便器、热水器、淋浴等生活设施。
Each ward is equipped with two beds, air-conditioned and television sets, separate toilets, and amenities such as toilets, water heaters and showers.
每个病房内都摆放有两张病床，安装有空调和电视，均设独立卫生间。
Each ward is equipped with two beds, air-conditioned and television sets and separate toilets.
（南方周末记者 马肃平/图）作为传染病医院，防止交叉感染极其重要。
As a hospital for infectious diseases, it is extremely important to prevent cross-infection.
这一理念也体现在了设计中。
This concept is also reflected in the design.
雷神山医院的平面设计图显示，每个隔离病区呈鱼骨状分布，中间是医护通道和医护工作区，病房分布在两侧。
Layout plans of Raytheon Hill Hospital show that each isolated area is divided into fishbone-like areas with medial access and medical care areas with wards located on both sides.
“技术上采用了三区两通道的设计。
"Technically, a three-zone, two-lane design has been adopted.
”中南建筑设计院有限公司副总建筑师张颂民在接受《焦点访谈》采访时解释，“三区”是指清洁区、半污染区和污染区，“两通道”指病人通道和医护通道。
"Three zones" refers to the clean, semi-polluted and polluted areas, and "two-way" refers to patient access and medical care, Zhang Songmin, vice-chief architect at China South Architectural Design Institute Ltd, explained in an interview with Focus Point Interview.
南方周末记者走进11号、12号房间，迎面是一面镜子，正中洗手台上方，标有“手卫生”提示语，这里是缓冲间。
Southern Weekend reporter walked into room 11, 12, face to face is a mirror, just above the washstand, marked "hand hygiene" signs, here is the buffer room.
两侧的门，分别通往两个不同的房间。
The doors on each side lead to two separate rooms.
缓冲区到病房的门只能医护走，非治疗时间关闭。
Buffer to ward door can only be taken care of, non-treatment time closed.
病房到患者通道还有一扇门，只能患者进出。
There is also a door from the ward to the patient's passageway, accessible only to patients.
感染一科十六病区的医护通道，该通道只供医护人员活动。
Infection of the care passages in the 16-disease area. This access is only for medical staff.
（南方周末记者 马肃平/图）每个床头都有3个插孔，均配备了供氧系统、负压抽吸系统。
(Southern Weekend reporter Ma Su Ping / picture) Each bed has 3 holes, equipped with oxygen supply system, negative pressure suction system.
现场一位医生解释，负压抽吸系统是通过特殊装置，让病房内的气压低于病房外的气压。
A doctor at the scene explained that the suction system is a special device that allows the air pressure inside the ward to be lower than that outside the ward.
这意味着，所有的空气从清洁区流向半污染区，再从半污染区流向污染区，不会逆向流动。
This means that all air flows from clean areas to semi-polluted areas and from semi-polluted areas to polluted areas without reverse flow.
每个病房还设有观察窗和传递窗。
Each ward also has observation windows and transfer windows.
传递窗像个方盒子，可从外面打开，医护人员在外面将药品递进方盒内，通过紫外线消毒，房间内的病人取用。
The transfer window is like a square box, which can be opened from outside. Medical staff pass the medicine into the box outside and sterilize it by ultraviolet light.
为避免感染，两侧玻璃禁止同时打开。
To avoid infection, both sides of the glass are forbidden to open simultaneously.
观察窗则较大，采用透明材质，不能打开，医护人员可由此观察病人情况。
The observation window is larger, uses the transparent material, cannot open, the medical personnel may observe the patient's condition from this.
柯于鹤告诉南方周末记者，雷神山医院也可进行核酸检测。
Koyue He told Southern Weekend reporter that Lei Shenshan Hospital can also carry out nucleic acid testing.
核酸检测位于医院的“心脏”医技楼。
Nucleic acid testing is located in the hospital's "heart" medical building.
医技楼将由武汉市的几家三甲医院负责，配有心电诊断科、超声影像科、放射影像科及医学检验科等医技科室，能满足新冠肺炎患者的辅助诊断要求。
The building will be run by three A hospitals in Wuhan and will be equipped with electrocardiogram, ultrasound, radiography and medical examination departments to meet the auxiliary diagnostic requirements of patients with new crown pneumonia.
3万人食堂：吃饭不许说话，元宵节有汤圆据《长江日报》报道，雷神山建设共动用了936名建设管理人员，7435名施工人员，1491台挖机、吊车等机械设备。
According to the Changjiang Daily, 936 construction managers, 7,435 construction personnel and 1,491 mechanical equipment such as excavators and cranes were used for the construction of the mountain.
2月8日上午，一眼望去，施工现场到处都是吊车、叉车和匆忙行走的工人。
On the morning of February 8, the construction site was filled with cranes, forklifts, and workers in a hurry.
34岁的伊藏虎正月初三就来到了雷神山医院，此前他一直在武汉做木工。
The 34-year-old Tibetan tiger arrived at Lei Shenshan Hospital on the third day of the first month, before he worked as a carpenter in Wuhan.
2008年汶川地震时，伊藏虎还没结婚，当时他就跑去四川灾区做了志愿者。
When the Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, the Tibetan tiger was not married, then he went to Sichuan disaster areas as a volunteer.
这次武汉新冠肺炎疫情严重，他主动向公司报名要求来雷神山。
Wuhan Xinguan pneumonia epidemic is serious, he volunteered to apply to the company to come to Lei Shenshan.
如今，伊藏虎的两个孩子已上小学，经常在电话里叮嘱爸爸“注意安全”。
Now, two of the tigers' children are in primary school, often on the phone telling their father to be "careful."
湖北洪湖的老家人并不乐意他来雷神山“冒险”，伊藏虎瞒着家人，只告诉他们“公司要召回”，直至到了武汉给家人发信息报了平安，家人这才知晓。
Hubei Honghu old family did not like him to come to Lei Shenshan "adventure," hiding tigers from their families, only to tell them "the company to recall," until Wuhan sent their families a message of peace, the family only to know.
新冠肺炎病毒主要通过呼吸道飞沫传播，人群聚集之地，风险无处不在。
New crown pneumonia virus mainly through respiratory droplets, crowd gathering place, the risk is everywhere.
南方周末记者注意到，施工现场有专门检测工人体温的通道。
Southern Weekend reporter noted that the construction site has a special test workers temperature channel.
2月7日，雷神山医院“万人食堂”刷屏朋友圈。
February 7, Lei Shenshan Hospital "ten thousand people canteen" brushing screen friends circle.
进入食堂前，排队的工人必须脱帽接受体温检测。
Before entering the canteen, the workers in line must take off their hats and have their temperature tested.
食堂内部没有椅子，多位工作人员用喇叭循环播放“排好队，吃饭不许说话，吃完立即离开”。
Canteen interior does not have a chair, a number of staff used loudspeaker circle play "lined up, eat not to talk, eat immediately left."
在统一管理下，即便到了饭点，临时食堂也没有出现拥挤现象，气氛相对工地显得相当安静。
Under the unified management, even when meals are served, there is no overcrowding in the temporary canteen and the atmosphere is relatively quiet compared to the construction site.
午饭过后，一些工人坐在食堂门前的草坪上休息。
After lunch, some of the workers sat on the lawn in front of the canteen.
有工人告诉南方周末记者，为了赶工期，最近他们的工作强度明显提升了——每天从早上7点开始工作，一直到晚上12点，中午和下午各有一小时休息时间。
A worker told Southern Weekend that they had recently stepped up their efforts to meet the deadline - starting work every day from 7 a.m. to 12 p.m., with a break of one hour at noon and one hour in the afternoon.
饭后，湖北恩施人陈先成和几位工友趴在草坪上，唱起了山歌。
After the meal, Chen Xiancheng of Hubei Enshi and several workmates lay on the lawn and sang folk songs.
他在工地上做通风管的水电工作，刚来工地的那几天，家里非常担心，“但这种事总要有人做，如果所有人都害怕，就无法战胜这场疫情”。
He worked on the site as a plumber, and on the first few days he arrived at the site, the family was very worried. "But it's something that has to be done, and if everyone is afraid, it can't be overcome.
2月8日，这一天是元宵节。
On February 8th, it is the Lantern Festival.
中建三局的工作人员煮了三大锅汤圆，很快就被工人们分光。
The staff of Zhongjian III cooked three large pots of soup bowls, which were soon spectroscopic by the workers.
他们希望，这些汤圆能让工人们感受到节日的温暖。
They hope the dumplings will help workers feel the warmth of the holiday.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
探访雷神山医院：严防交叉感染，收治首批转运患者。
Visit Lui Shen Shan Hospital: Prevent cross-infection and treat the first batch of transporters.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "探访雷神山医院：严防交叉感染，收治首批转运患者";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Visit Lui Shenshan Hospital: Prevent cross-infection and treat its first transhipment patients;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
