患者集中隔离后的武汉社区：防疫战最后那道承压阀。
The patient is concentrated in the isolated Wuhan community: the last pressure-bearing valve of the epidemic prevention campaign.
杜思琪。
Tusky.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月3日晚，3所“方舱医院”在武汉开建。
On the night of February 3, 2020, three "square cabin hospitals" in Wuhan began construction.
这三处“方舱医院”位于武汉国际会展中心、洪山体育馆和武汉客厅，以收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎轻症患者为主。
The three "square cabin hospitals" are located in Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, Hongshan Stadium and Wuhan living room to treat the new coronavirus infection patients with pneumonia.
（新华社/图）全文共4104字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4,104 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
据南方周末记者不完全统计，截至2月4日24时，武汉市至少开辟了36个集中隔离点。
According to Southern Weekend reporter incomplete statistics, as of 2400 hours on February 4, Wuhan city opened at least 36 concentrated isolation points.
“按照要求，社区每天消毒三四次，但每次出去消完毒，防护服就不能用了。
"The community is required to disinfect three or four times a day, but every time it goes out to get rid of the poison, protective clothing can't be used.
这样消耗下去，防护服很快就没了。
If this goes down, the suit will soon be gone.
”周慧说，“所以只好不穿。
"said Zhou Hui." So I won't wear it.
”住进隔离点的第三天，陈珍的父亲终于被转至社区中心医院进行住院治疗。
On the third day of confinement, Chen's father was finally transferred to the central community hospital for hospital treatment.
“接下来的事情就只有相信医生了。
"The next thing we have to do is trust the doctor.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 杜思琪南方周末实习生 任淼琳责任编辑 |吴筱羽反复发热的第10天，2020年2月3日，武汉人陈珍的父亲被送去了集中隔离点，之前，她一度担心，被诊断有肺炎症状的父亲会传染给其他家人，继而“拖垮”整个家。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
集中隔离点设于一家紧急改造的宾馆。
The central isolation point was set up in an emergency remodelled hotel.
一天前，武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部发布第十号通告，决定自通告发布之日起，对全市经发热门诊诊断有肺炎症状的发热病人和新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎（下称“新冠肺炎”）病人的密切接触者，由各区安排车辆分别送至区集中隔离观察点。
A day ago, the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command issued Notice 10, deciding that from the day of the announcement, close contacts with fever patients diagnosed with pneumonia and pneumonia (hereinafter referred to as "New Coronavirus Pneumonia") in the fever clinic across the city will be sent to the district centralized quarantine point.
政令自上而下传导，像湖面涟漪，自武汉市政府开始，在下辖区推行，迅速到达街道一级。
Decree top-down transmission, like ripples on the surface of the lake, starting with Wuhan city government, under the jurisdiction of the implementation, quickly reached the street level.
防疫链条终端，社区是最后那道承压阀。
The cordon sanitaire terminal, the community is the last pressure-bearing valve.
陈珍不知道的是，对链条终端的许多社区干部而言，“十号令”也是突如其来。
What Chen did not know was that, for many community cadres at the end of the chain, the Ten Order came suddenly.
南方周末记者了解到，集中隔离的最初两天，尽管有了隔离点，但尚无明确的隔离办法，还没有医护人员，也缺少药物。
Southern Weekend reporters learned that during the first two days of intensive isolation, despite the isolation points, there was no clear method of segregation, no medical staff and no medication.
结果是，投诉电话又像雪片一样飞向社区。
As a result, the complaint lines flew like snowflakes back to the community.
武汉“封城”后的13天里，这样的情形每天都在上演。
Wuhan after the "closure" of the 13 days, such a situation is staged every day.
病人的煎熬，家人的焦灼与社区的压力相伴而生。
The anguish of the patient, the anxiety of the family, and the pressure of the community.
病患者在寻求治疗的路上，和社区发生的磕碰乃至冲突，都折射出社会基层治理的复杂。
On the way of seeking treatment, the patients' collision with the community reflects the complexity of basic social governance.
好在更细致的防疫机制启动了，社会压力有所缓解。
Fortunately, more detailed anti-epidemic mechanisms have been activated, social pressure has eased.
据武汉市公布数据，截至2月4日24时，武汉市开辟了132个集中隔离点，12571张床位，集中隔离各类人员5425人。
As of 2400 hours February 4, Wuhan city had opened 132 centralized quarantine centers with 12,571 beds, concentrating 5,425 people of various categories, according to figures released by Wuhan city.
医疗和生活服务也在悄然跟上。
Medical and domestic services are quietly catching up.
在此之前，武汉改造包括国际会展中心在内的三处“方舱医院”，提供3800张床位，主要收治确诊新冠肺炎的轻症患者。
Before that, Wuhan transformed three "Fangcao hospitals," including the International Convention and Exhibition Center, providing 3,800 beds for people with mild cases of newly diagnosed pneumonia.
2月4日上午，完工的火神山医院收治了50名转院而来的病人。
On the morning of February 4, 50 patients were transferred to the completed Mount Fujimori Hospital.
也是在这一天，湖北省委书记蒋超良到武昌区检查疑似病人集中隔离点安置情况，强调要兑现“应收尽收，应治尽治”承诺。
On the same day, Hubei Provincial Party Secretary Jiang Xiuliang went to Wuchang District to inspect the resettlement of suspected patients in a concentrated isolation point, emphasizing to fulfill the promise of "all receivable, all cure."
1紧急上马“十号令”让陈珍看到了转机。
The urgent implementation of the "Ten Order" let Chen Zhen see a turning point.
此前，被武汉市第三医院的医生诊断为高度疑似新冠肺炎的陈珍父亲，只能居家隔离。
Chen's father, diagnosed by doctors at Wuhan's Third Hospital as highly suspected of pneumonia, was isolated at home.
父亲1月25日发病，陈珍从那天起就一直扑床位，但因为没有试剂盒，父亲始终无法确诊。
His father fell ill on January 25 and Chen has been in bed since that day, but he was never able to diagnose it because there was no kit.
确诊，意味着可以排号住进医院。
Diagnosis means you can stay in hospital with a platoon number.
而父亲只能在家反复发烧：胸闷、乏力、呼吸困难，所有纠缠新冠肺炎患者的病痛也纠缠着他。
But the father can only repeat fever at home: chest tightness, fatigue, breathing difficulties, all entangled in the new crown pneumonia patient's illness also entangled him.
但这并非完全隔离。
But this is not total isolation.
为了拿到药物和得到有效的诊断，他们不得不每天穿梭于武汉的大街小巷，往返于医院和住所。
To get medication and an effective diagnosis, they had to shuttle through Wuhan streets every day, commuting to hospitals and residences.
在专家们来看，这样的疑似病例就像“行走的病毒”，不知道哪天会突然离去，更不知道身边人何时会“中招”。
According to experts, such suspected cases are like "walking viruses," who do not know which day will suddenly leave, and do not know when the people around them will "move."
2月2日下午，陈珍看到“十号令”便马上给保利社区打去电话。
On the afternoon of February 2, Chen Zhen saw the "Ten Order" and immediately called the Pauli community.
她回忆，当时社区工作人员告诉她，隔离点有专家治疗，“我才比较放心把爸爸带过去”。
She recalls being told by community workers that there was specialist treatment at the quarantine site and that "it was easier for me to take my father there."
2月3日一早，她开车把父亲送去了离家约三公里的隔离点。
Early in the morning of 3 February, she drove her father to a seclusion about three kilometres from his home.
这幢四星级标准、共16层297间房的宾馆在一天前被征辟为新冠肺炎疑似患者的集中隔离区。
The four-star standard, 16-storey 297-room hotel was opened a day ago as a concentration of suspected patients with pneumonia in the New Crown.
在酒店大堂，陈珍被拦住了，工作人员态度明确，“只有要隔离的疑似患者可以上楼。
In the lobby, Chen was stopped and the staff made it clear, "Only suspected patients who want isolation can go upstairs."
”陈珍目送父亲带着行李上了楼，她准备离开，正遇到一辆急救车载着医护人员来到酒店，工作人员告诉她，这是来给隔离患者做核酸检测以确诊的。
Chen, who saw her father up the stairs with his luggage, was about to leave when an ambulance brought paramedics to the hotel and staff told her that it was for a DNA test to confirm the diagnosis.
陈珍有些开心，特地发了一条微博：父亲发热的第十天，把爸爸送去了集中隔离点，现已有医生过去做核酸检测，希望一切顺利。
Chen Zhen a little happy, specially sent a micro-blog: my father had a fever on the tenth day, sent his father to a concentrated isolation point, now that a doctor has done nucleic acid testing, hope that all the best.
然而，父亲未如预想中迅速得到检测和救治。
However, the father was not promptly tested and treated as expected.
当天下午，父亲再次呼吸困难，她借来一台家用制氧机送去。
Later that afternoon, her father was having difficulty breathing again and she borrowed a home oxygen machine.
看到父亲情况不对，陈珍又带着父亲去医院排队做核酸检测，并输液治疗。
Seeing his father was wrong, Chen Zhentook her father to the hospital to queue for a nucleic acid test, and infusion treatment.
南方周末记者了解到，这个隔离点有七八名工作人员，除了送饭和一些去热的基本药物外，其余均需要患者自理。
Southern Weekend reporter learned that the isolation point has 78 staff members, except for the delivery of food and some basic medicine to heat up, all of the patients need to take care of themselves.
陈珍在一个有一百多名隔离患者及家属的微信群里，几乎全天都有人请求工作人员配药送药、询问检测事宜、询问送饭时间、要求外出打针等等。
In a small group of more than 100 quarantined patients and their families, Chen has been asked almost all day for medication, tests, meals and needles.
他们往往只等到三个字：“等通知。
They tend to wait for only three words: "Wait for the announcement.
”等到了2月3日深夜接近零点时，工作人员终于在群里通知，让病人去一楼做核酸检测。
When it was almost midnight on February 3, the staff finally announced in the group that the patient would be tested for nucleic acid on the first floor.
南方周末记者多次联系该酒店工作人员，电话始终无人接听。
Southern Weekend reporter repeatedly contacted the hotel staff, the phone never answered.
但从硚口区某酒店工作人员处了解到，检测出来后，结果为阴性的人可以直接离开。
But from a hotel staff in Zhangkou District, detected, the negative results can be left directly.
确诊病人里，轻症继续在酒店隔离，重症则去医院。
In confirmed patients, mild cases continue to be isolated in hotels and severe cases are referred to hospitals.
但他并不知道“医院的床位由谁安排”。
But he did not know "who arranges hospital beds."
根据硚口区值班室工作人员2月3日向南方周末记者提供的说法，隔离点的实施不可能一步到位，吃住和治疗条件后期会跟上。
According to a report given to Southern Weekend reporter on February 3 by the staff of the Zhoukou District Duty Room, the implementation of the quarantine point could not be put in place overnight.
2社区“管事人”在仍然未明的防疫形势下，社区干部成了市民最容易联系的“管事人”，他们期盼能从这里获得帮助。
Community "caretakers" In the still-unclear epidemic situation, community cadres have become the most accessible "steward" of the public, looking forward to receiving help from here.
根据“十号令”要求，此次集中收治和隔离的包含“四类人员”。
According to the "Ten Order" request, this centralized treatment and isolation contains "four categories of personnel."
分别是：确诊的新冠肺炎患者、疑似患者、无法明确的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
They are: confirmed patients with new crown pneumonia, suspected patients, patients unable to clearly identify fever, confirmed patients in close contact.
其中，重症确诊患者必须进入定点医院，重症疑似患者必须入院治疗。
Among them, patients with severe diagnosis must be admitted to a designated hospital, severe suspected patients must be hospitalized.
无法入院的轻症确诊和疑似患者，必须集中隔离，不得进行居家隔离。
Persons diagnosed and suspected of being unhospitalized must be placed in isolation, not in their own homes.
然而，下沉到社区一级，有些社区得到的任务是隔离其中两类人员。
However, sinking down to the community level, some communities are given the task of separating two categories of people.
秦琦担任书记的汉阳区某社区就是如此。
Qin Qi secretary of the Hanyang District is such a community.
秦琦介绍，她带着社区9名工作人员，24小时值班，担负6个小区、共五千多人的疫情防控。
Qin Qi said she took nine community workers on 24-hour duty, responsible for six small areas, a total of more than 5,000 people disease prevention and control.
“现在有3个确诊病例，其中1位住进了医院，另外2位居家隔离。
"There are now three confirmed cases, of which one is hospitalized and the other two are in home isolation.
”在秦琦2月2日得到的通知里，他们可以组织社区居民前往某宾馆隔离。
In the February 2 notice Qin Qi received, they can organize community residents to go to a hotel to quarantine.
“但只有高度疑似和确诊患者的密切接触者才能去。
"But only those in close contact with highly suspected and diagnosed patients can go.
”何谓高度疑似？秦琦只能根据情况，凭感觉判断。
What is highly suspect? Qin Qi can only judge by feeling.
“比如咳嗽很厉害，高烧不退，呼吸困难。
"I have a bad cough, a high fever and difficulty breathing.
”综合南方周末记者对不同社区的采访，目前有两种路径可被集中隔离。
The Southern Weekend reporter interviewed different communities and now has two routes that can be grouped together.
一是社区主动联系，询问是否愿意；二是主动向社区申请，但如果条件不符合也会被拒绝。
The first is that the community reaches out and asks if it wishes to do so; the second is to apply to the community on its own initiative, but is refused if the conditions do not meet.
寄居在硚口区某小区的高霞就是社区主动联系的。
Living in a district of Zhangkou District Gao Xia is the community initiative contact.
她常居孝感，1月13日丈夫开始反复发热，她才来到武汉。
She often live filial piety, January 13 her husband began to feverish, she came to Wuhan.
2月3日，高霞告诉南方周末记者，来武汉后十多天后，丈夫被确诊为新冠肺炎，在1月31日仓促离世。
On February 3, Gao Xia told Southern Weekend reporter that more than 10 days after coming to Wuhan, her husband was diagnosed with pneumonia and died hurriedly on January 31.
没有体面的收拾，没有家属的告别，她只接到一张火化单。
There was no decent packing, no good-bye from her family, she received only one cremation.
丧夫之痛还来不及消化，高霞和儿子也开始出现发热症状。
Her husband's pain was too late to digest, and Gao Xia and her son began to develop febrile symptoms.
医院没有床位，武汉一位朋友收留了母子俩居家隔离。
The hospital had no beds, and a friend in Wuhan took in the mother and the child.
“我儿子每天都要去华科附属同济医院打点滴，一次6至7瓶。
"My son goes to Wako Tongji Hospital every day, six to seven bottles at a time.
”而她自己主要靠吃药来缓解症状。
"She took her medicine to relieve her symptoms.
2月2日中午，高霞接到社区干部的电话，让她带好生活必需品，下午有车接他们，往6公里外的酒店集中隔离。
At noon on 2 February, Gao Xia received a telephone call from community officials, asking her to bring the necessities of life with her. In the afternoon, she was picked up by car and herded to a hotel six kilometres away.
本就寄人篱下，高霞决定和儿子前往。
Ben on the fence, Gao Xia decided to go with her son.
高霞母子遇到了和陈珍父亲相似的情况，进去后不能再出来，“那我孩子每天要打点滴怎么办？”在这座有13个辖区，总面积8569.15平方公里的特大城市，高霞一时间不知何去何从。
After going in, she couldn't come out again, "What if my child drops every day?" Gao Xia, a mega-city with a total area of 8569.15 square kilometers in 13 jurisdictions, did not know where to go.
她再也忍不住，在电话里嚎啕大哭，和南方周末记者的电话也随即挂断。
She couldn't help crying on the phone and hanging up with Southern Weekend reporter.
第二天重新联系上时，他们已被安排到另一个隔离点。
By the time they re-contacted the following day, they had been moved to another isolation point.
3压力、权限与变化作为疫情防控的第一道防线，社区也站在风险和矛盾的最前沿。
Pressure, authority and change as the first line of defense against the epidemic, the community is also at the forefront of risks and contradictions.
2月2日上午，突然而至的“十号令”，让汉阳区江堤街道某社区书记程华觉得“安慰了一些”。
February 2 morning, the sudden arrival of "10", Hanyang District Jiangdi Street, a community secretary Cheng Hua feel "a little comfort."
在程华看来，集中隔离政策，初衷是为分担社区压力，降低居家隔离存在的风险。
In Cheng's view, the centralized segregation policy was originally designed to share community pressure and reduce the risk of segregation in the home.
此前，他每天都戴着普通医用口罩、穿着一次性防护服，和居家隔离的确诊、疑似病人打交道。
Previously, he had been wearing ordinary medical masks and disposable protective clothing every day, dealing with patients diagnosed and suspected of being isolated in their homes.
“我们也担心被感染，又传给其他居民和亲属。
"We also fear infection and pass it on to other residents and relatives.
”安慰很快转变为工作压力，因为政策的执行还得靠他们，如同11天前那样。
Comfort quickly turned into stress at work because it was up to them to implement policies, as they did 11 days ago.
那是1月23日凌晨，武汉决定“封城”，以抑制疫情的扩散。
It was the early morning of January 23, Wuhan decided to "seal the city" to curb the spread of the epidemic.
夜色中，消息很快传达到社区里。
In the darkness, the news quickly spread to the community.
同时传达的，还有指挥部发来的“七号令”。
At the same time, there is the "seven command" from the headquarters.
“七号令”明确：全市各社区要全面排查所服务辖区发热病人。
"Seven orders" clear: the city's communities to a comprehensive screening of fever patients in their areas of service.
对于需要到发热门诊的病人，各区统一安排车辆送达指定发热门诊就诊；对于不需要到复诊门诊就诊的病人，由各社区落实居家观察，社区做好市民居家观察服务工作。
For patients who need to go to a fever clinic, the districts arrange for vehicles to be delivered to designated fever clinics; for patients who do not need to come to a referral clinic, home observation is implemented by the communities and the community does a good job of observing the residents' homes.
“一切来得太快了，所有人、物、事一窝蜂涌向了社区。
"It's all happening so fast, people, things, things are rushing into the community.
”汉阳区江汉二桥街道某社区书记周慧2月4日对南方周末记者回忆。
Zhou Hui, a community secretary in Erqiao Street, JiangHan District, told Southern Weekend reporter on February 4.
从1月24日开始，她就没停过。
She hasn't stopped since January 24.
比起江汉二桥街道其它几个社区，周慧管辖社区的疫情不算严重。
Compared with several other communities in Erqiao Street, Zhou Hui's jurisdiction was not serious.
整个社区尚无确诊病例，有5个疑似病例。
There are no confirmed cases in the community as a whole and five suspected cases.
但社区有七千多人，退休老人多，她还是担心在严重疫情之下，老年人成为病毒的目标。
But with more than 7,000 people in the community and a large number of retirees, she fears that older people could be targeted by the virus in the face of a severe epidemic.
封城的第一天，周慧和15名同事没有任何防护措施。
On the first day of the city, Zhou Hui and 15 colleagues had no protection.
1月26日，街道办开始陆续发放一次性口罩。
On January 26, street offices began distributing disposable masks.
又过了一天，他们得到了一些消毒水和100件防护服。
The next day they were given some disinfectant and 100 protective clothing.
“按照要求，社区每天消毒三四次，但每次出去消完毒，防护服就不能用了。
"The community is required to disinfect three or four times a day, but every time it goes out to get rid of the poison, protective clothing can't be used.
这样消耗下去，防护服很快就没了。
If this goes down, the suit will soon be gone.
”周慧说，“所以只好不穿。
"said Zhou Hui." So I won't wear it.
”除了社区干部，在中国社会基层治理体系中，网格员扮演着重要角色。
In addition to community cadres, grid workers play an important role in the basic governance system of Chinese society.
从武汉市2019年公布的网格员数量来看，过去一年当地按照300-500户或常住人口1000人左右标准配备专兼职网格员，这个群体的数量达1.6万多名。
According to the number of grid workers published in Wuhan city in 2019, the number of full-time grid workers in the past year reached more than 16,000 according to the standard of 300-500 households or about 1,000 resident population.
以此计算，周慧所在的社区至少有7名网格员。
In this calculation, Zhou Hui's community has at least seven grid workers.
社区干部、网格员被动员起来，轮班倒连轴转。
Community cadres and grid workers were mobilized and rotated around in shifts.
24小时，他们不停接到电话。
For 24 hours, they were on the phone.
其中最多的是投诉电话。
The most frequent of these are complaint calls.
电话一接起，往往是连珠炮似的追问：为什么没有去医院的车？为什么还没床位？为什么还没安排隔离点？周慧能做的是拿起笔，记录下来，汇报上去。
When the phone rang up, it was often a barrage of questions: Why didn't you go to the hospital? Why didn't you have a bed? Why didn't you arrange an isolation point? What Zhou Huineng did was pick up the pen, write it down and report it.
然而，和自上而下的指令不一样，自下而上的反映，没有人知道它是否会在某一环节停下脚步。
However, unlike top-down instructions, no one knows if it will stop at some point from the bottom up.
这样的对话每天重复上演。
This dialogue is repeated every day.
电话那头是焦急等待的居民，“你们老在说反映，但什么时候是个头？”电话这头是疲惫不堪的工作人员，“从头到尾我们都在上报。
At the other end of the line were anxious residents, "You guys are always talking about it, but when is it a head?"
”社区工作人员和居民都疲惫到了极点，但争吵和投诉依然难以缓解。
Community workers and residents are exhausted, but wrangling and complaints remain intractable.
双方拉锯的起点和终点，都指向同一个问题，资源短缺。
Both sides of the start and end of the saw point to the same problem, a shortage of resources.
在接受南方周末记者采访的多位社区书记看来，他们甘心做事，但现实是社区资源跟不上。
According to community secretaries interviewed by Southern Weekend reporters, they are willing to do things, but the reality is that community resources have not kept pace.
以“十号令”为例。
Take the Ten Order as an example.
根据政府公文，对不愿进行隔离的人可以采取强制措施，但能执行强制措施的只能是社区片警。
According to government documents, coercive measures may be taken against persons who do not wish to be segregated, but only by the community police.
“我们没这个权限，只能去对接，但对接总要花费时间的。
"We don't have the right to docking, but docking always takes time.
”汉阳区江汉二桥街街道某社区书记告诉南方周末记者。
A community secretary on Erqiao Street, JiangHan District, told Southern Weekend reporter.
在他看来，当前居民诉求中最急迫的还是床位。
In his view, the most urgent demand of the current residents or beds.
拥有床位，意味着患者有了专业的隔离，从而切断传染源。
Having a bed means that the patient is professionally isolated, thus cutting off the source of infection.
短缺的床位、求治的诉求，让患者和家属不放过纷杂信息中的任何一条。
The shortage of beds, the demand for treatment, so that patients and family members not miss any of the miscellaneous information.
截至2月4日，武汉市28家定点医院，开放床位8254张，已用8182张。
As of February 4, there were 28 designated hospitals in Wuhan, with 8,254 beds open, of which 8,182 had been used.
同一天，国家卫健委表示，正在从全国陆续调集医护人员、护士到武汉看护患者。
On the same day, the National Fitness Commission said it was mobilizing medical staff and nurses from across the country to care for patients in Wuhan.
同时，建成后可提供1600张床位收治病人的武汉雷神山医院也预计2月5日交付，两座医院只接收确诊病人。
Wuhan Raytheon Mountain Hospital, which will provide 1,600 beds for patients when completed, is also due to be delivered on February 5.
2月4日晚上，陈珍又收到一个好消息和一个坏消息。
On the evening of February 4, Chen Zhen received another piece of good news and bad news.
坏消息是，父亲的核酸检测结果出来了，第一次阳性。
The bad news is that father's nucleic acid test results came out, the first time positive.
好消息是，集中隔离点工作人员开始在微信群里统计检测结果，称正安排部分检测结果为阳性的患者转诊住院。
The good news is that staff at the central quarantine point began counting test results in the microphone population, saying they were referring patients who were partially positive for testing to hospitals.
2月5日，住进隔离点的第三天，陈珍的父亲终于被转至社区中心医院进行住院治疗。
On February 5, the third day of confinement, Chen's father was finally transferred to the central community hospital for hospitalization.
虽非大医院，但有床位、有医院收治，陈珍总算舒了一口气。
Though not a major hospital, Chen was relieved to have a bed and a hospital.
“接下来的事情就只有相信医生了。
"The next thing we have to do is trust the doctor.
”（应受访者要求，文中所列名字均为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
The call for Southern Weekend is now open to all readers of the New Crown Pneumonia front line.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
患者集中隔离后的武汉社区：防疫战最后那道承压阀。
The patient is concentrated in the isolated Wuhan community: the last pressure-bearing valve of the epidemic prevention campaign.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "患者集中隔离后的武汉社区：防疫战最后那道承压阀";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
