那些为新冠肺炎“让路”的患者：防止交叉感染，常规诊疗暂停。
Those who "give way" to new crown pneumonia: Prevent cross-infection, and pause in routine consultations.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
The following article comes from 健言。
The following article comes from good words.
Author 马肃平。
Author Mashuping.
健言。
Good words.
“健言”关注我们每一个人赖以生存的食品、药品、医疗大健康话题，并带来最深度、最有价值的解读。
"Jianyu" focuses on the food, medicines, and health issues on which each of us depends, and brings the deepest and most valuable interpretations.
线下“健言沙龙”追求建设性想法，倡导跨界、多元、碰撞、共识的交流准则，务求新思维、新视野、新观点，立志打造中国食药健康领域最具影响力的青年智库。
In pursuit of constructive ideas, the "talkative salon" advocates cross-boundary, multi-faceted, collision and consensus exchange guidelines, seeking new ideas, perspectives and perspectives to create the most influential youth think tank in the field of Chinese medicine and health.
。
.
▲2020年1月31日，发热门诊收费员穿着防护服工作。
On January 31, 2020, the heating clinic toll collector will work in protective clothing.
（新华社/图）全文共3713字，阅读大约需要8分钟。
The full text is 3713 words and takes about eight minutes to read.
一些原本节假日还忙着开会“飞刀”的外科医生，最近基本没什么活儿干，闲得在微信群里聊起了天。
Some of the original holiday is still busy meeting "flying knife" surgeons, recently there is little work to do, free to chat in the micro-letter group.
北京、上海等地肿瘤相关科室的病房基本不收治外地病人，一些病房被清空，非急诊手术统统取消，“原先需要提前三个月排期，现在突然空了下来，有些大牌医生心理落差特别大。
The wards of oncology departments in Beijing and Shanghai were largely closed to patients from other places. Some wards were emptied and non-emergency surgeries were canceled.
”人群聚集有相互传播“新冠肺炎”病毒的风险，加之全国已经出现了一些无症状的“隐形感染者”，医院无法仅通过测量体温排除是否感染。
The crowds were at risk of transmitting the virus to each other, and hospitals could not rule out infection simply by measuring body temperature, with asymptomatic "invisible infections" appearing across the country.
特殊时期，医院显著压缩收治人数，各种检查基本暂停，没有诊断结果，手术自然也没法做。
During the special period, the number of hospital admissions was significantly reduced, examinations were basically suspended, no diagnostic results were available and the operation was not possible.
2020年1月28日，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组下发通知，要求做好疫情期间特殊病人的医疗保障工作，其中专门提到了要满足慢性肾衰病人、孕产妇、外科疾病等人群的医疗保健服务需求。
On January 28, 2020, the Medical Treatment Team of Wuhan's New Crown Pneumonia Control Command issued a notice requiring special medical care for special patients during the epidemic, with specific reference to the need to meet the health-care needs of patients with chronic renal failure and maternal and surgical diseases.
文 | 南方周末记者 马肃平责任编辑 | 曹海东血小板显著异常第四天了，2020年2月1日，“二水”再次发出这种影响看起来尚没有结束的日求救微博，说母亲情况有点不妙，有没有医院能够收治。
Cao Haidong, a reporter at Southern Weekend, was at least four days with a marked abnormal platelet. On February 1, 2020, Ershui again issued a daily call for help that appeared to be over, saying that there was something wrong with the mother and that there was no hospital for treatment.
这天，母亲的鼻腔和喉咙开始出血，只能在床上躺着，随时都可能陷入大出血境地。
On this day, the mother's nose and throat began to bleed, can only lie in bed, at any time may be plunged into bleeding situation.
“前两天还能看电视剧，说说话，昨晚舌头上的紫癜突然严重了。
"Two days ago can also watch TV play, talk, last night on the tongue of purpura suddenly serious.
”两年来，身患急性白血病的母亲病情平稳，但粒细胞长时间处于极低的状态，任何一点小小的感染都可能会致命。
For two years, a mother with acute leukemia was stable, but the granulocytes remained extremely low for a long time, and any small infection could be fatal.
她在武汉大学中南医院血液科依靠每周输一次血小板、每两周输一次红细胞和服用抗癌药延长生命。
She relies on platelets once a week, red blood cells every two weeks and anticancer drugs to prolong her life at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital.
连续几天，“二水”想尽一切办法为母亲寻找血小板，其间还拨打了武汉市长热线，终于在1月30日等到了武汉市卫健委的电话。
For several days, Ershui tried everything to find platelets for her mother, while calling Wuhan city governor's hotline, and finally waited for a call from Wuhan Health Commission on January 30.
不过，事情最终还得由中南医院解决。
Eventually, however, the matter will have to be resolved by the South-Central Hospital.
当时医院也没辙，“血液科发现了‘新冠肺炎’的确诊病例，整个科室都封了，你们去其他医院吧。
The hospital wasn't there either. "The hematology department found a confirmed case of New Crown Pneumonia and the whole department was sealed.
”不惟武汉市和湖北省，目前全国各地都在不惜一切代价防止“新冠肺炎”疫情扩散，几乎所有医院科室都在为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者让路，很多特殊的病患群体正被忽略。
"Wuhan and Hubei provinces are not the only cities in the country that are doing all they can to prevent the spread of the new coronavirus-infected pneumonia, with almost all hospital departments giving way to patients suffering from new coronavirus infections and many special groups of patients being neglected.
影响也在慢慢浮现。
The impact is also slowly emerging.
比如，由于医院担心交叉感染，病房住不进，手术室不开，好不容易轮到排期的手术也被取消;肿瘤化疗无限期推迟，病情可能进一步恶化。
For example, due to hospital concerns about cross-infection, hospital wards are not accessible, operating rooms are not open and scheduled surgery is cancelled; chemotherapy for tumours is postponed indefinitely and may deteriorate further.
药物临床试验也受到影响，受试者难以回到现场进行随访，数据收集不及时，违背方案的情况时有发生。
Clinical trials of drugs were also affected, it was difficult for subjects to return to the scene for follow-up, data collection was not timely, and violations of the protocol occurred.
1月31日，世卫组织总干事谭德塞在新闻发布会上表示，中国确诊人数占全球已报病例的99%，上百人因此失去生命，“我们一定要记住，这些是人，不是数字。
The number of confirmed cases in China is 99 percent of the world's reported cases, and hundreds of people have lost their lives. "We must remember that these are people, not numbers," WHO Director-General Theresa Tanner told a news conference.
”看到这段视频，“二水”有些难过，她不知道母亲能否扛住病情进展。
"Seeing the video," Ershui "a bit sad, she did not know whether her mother can hold the progress of the disease.
“不惜一切代价的代价，就是每个‘我们’，最后甚至都不能成为报道中的一个阿拉伯数字。
"The price at all costs is that each 'us' cannot even become an Arabic numeral in the report.
”1医院“不惜一切代价”防疫1月28日，接到医院血液科不再收治病人通知的那一刻，“二水”慌了。
"Hospital" at all costs "vaccination January 28, received the hospital hematology department no longer accept the patient's notification," Ershui "panic.
输不上血小板，母亲随时会因出血而死亡。
Without platelets, the mother would die of bleeding at any time.
当天的门诊化验结果相当糟糕——母亲的血小板已经掉到只剩15个单位(正常值为125-350)，还在不断往下跌，血制品输注成了刚需。
Outpatient testing that day turned out badly - the mother's platelets had fallen to just 15 units (a normal value of 125-350) and were falling steadily, with blood transfusions just in demand.
“二水”想尽办法在网络上寻找一切可能的希望，但当时正值疫情高峰，武汉同济医院、武汉协和、武钢总院......几乎所有医院都因为担心交叉感染而拒收其他病人。
Ershui tried its best to find every possible hope on the Internet, but at the height of the epidemic, Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Concorde and WISCO General Hospital... Almost all hospitals refused to accept other patients for fear of cross-infection.
“医院没错，患者没错，错的是谁呢?“”二水”绝望了。
"The hospital is right, the patient is right, who is wrong?" "Second water" despair.
白血病患者并非孤例。
Leukemia patients are not alone.
疫情非常时期，血液透析、化疗、肿瘤复诊病人的医疗需求，几乎都受到不同程度的影响。
The medical needs of patients undergoing hemodialysis, chemotherapy and oncology are affected to varying degrees during the emergency period.
更令人头疼的是，这种影响看起来尚没有结束的日程表。
Even more troubling, the impact seems to have no end in sight.
为缓解病床紧张的现状，进一步加强疫情防控工作，武汉市分5批征用了共51家定点医院，清出1.2万余张床位收治发热病人。
To ease the shortage of beds and further strengthen the prevention and control of the disease, the city of Wuhan requisitioned 51 designated hospitals in five batches, clearing more than 12,000 beds for fever patients.
一些医院在被列为定点医院后，某些原有的治疗项目被迫推迟或暂停。
Some pre-existing treatment projects have had to be postponed or suspended following the designation of hospitals as designated.
1月26日，尿毒症患者陈诺就在透析病友群里接到通知，由于汉阳中医院被征用为第三批定点救治医院，需要清空病人、关闭透析室。
On January 26, Chen No, a uremic patient, was told in a group of dialysis patients that the hospital needed to be emptied and its dialysis room closed because it had been requisitioned as the third designated hospital.
武汉全市有上万名透析患者，血液透析资源本就相对饱和。
Wuhan city has tens of thousands of dialysis patients, hemodialysis resources are already relatively saturated.
规模较大的综合医院尚有能力将病人分流到其他院区，而很多医院一旦被征收，血透室可能第二天就要关闭。
Larger general hospitals still have the capacity to divert patients to other districts, and many hospitals, once expropriated, may be closed the next day.
时间仓促，加之交通“封城”导致的出行困难，患者很难找到“路子”。
Hasty time, coupled with the traffic "closure" caused by travel difficulties, patients find it difficult to find a "way."
“你有办法帮忙联系到接收医院吗?”1月29日，刚接通电话，一位尿毒症患者就询问南方周末记者。
"Do you have a way to help contact the receiving hospital?" On January 29, a uremic sufferer asked Southern Weekend reporter.
上述患者已经4天没透析了，体内的毒素和积液无法排出，全身水肿得厉害。
These patients have not dialyzed for four days, the body of toxins and effusion can not be excreted, the whole body edema is severe.
时间久了，心率不齐，还可能因肺衰竭或心脏衰竭引起死亡。
Over time, the heart rate varies, and death may result from lung failure or heart failure.
患者互助平台“肾一样的人”的工作人员智安理解政府出台政策的初衷——透析病人免疫力差，在疫区属于易感染人群，医院被征用后会接收大量疑似感染或发热的病人，关停透析室并无不妥。
The staff of the Patient Mutual Aid Platform "Kidney-like People" understand the government's original intention - dialysis patients have poor immunity, are vulnerable to infection in affected areas, receive a large number of patients suspected of infection or fever after the hospital is requisitioned, and have no problem shutting down the dialysis room.
不过，不容忽视的一个问题是，如果不治疗，透析病人即使不感染也会死。
However, a problem that cannot be ignored is that dialysis patients die, if not infected, if not treated.
“(医院)怎样有计划地征用，把透析病人合理地安排出来。
"How do you plan the requisition and properly arrange the dialysis patients?
”前两轮医院被征用后，有透析床位的医院几乎全被占满。
After the first two rounds of hospitals were requisitioned, almost all dialysis-beds hospitals were occupied.
陈诺被分流到了汉阳天泽透析中心，生怕有什么意外，她一次性交齐了六次透析的钱，2700多元——平常经过医保重症报销每次只要一百元左右。
Cheno was shunned to the Hanyang Tianze dialysis center for fear of an accident. She handed in six dialysis sessions at a time for more than 2,700 yuan - usually only about $100 for serious medical claims.
但规律透析，是她活下去的唯一选择。
But regular dialysis was her only option for survival.
2“等疫情控制了再说”交通“封城”、集中力量诊治新冠肺炎患者，无形中抢占了其他患者的资源。
2 "When the epidemic control of traffic" closed the city ", concentrate on the diagnosis and treatment of patients with New Crown Pneumonia, unwittingly usurped other patients resources.
这种影响已经波及北京、成都、西安等大城市，无数肿瘤病人复查和化疗时间到了，服用靶向药和免疫治疗的时间到了，等候多时的手术时间到了，但“暂缓”“另等通知”的情况比比皆是。
The impact has affected major cities such as Beijing, Chengdu and Xi'an, where countless oncological patients are due for revisits and chemotherapy. The time for targeted drugs and immunotherapy has arrived.
“看情况吧，等疫情控制了再说。
"It depends, until the epidemic is under control.
”对于何时恢复手术和化疗，医生们也没有答案。
Doctors also have no answer as to when to resume surgery or chemotherapy.
腊月二十六，“清音”70岁的母亲因肠癌住进了中国医学科学院肿瘤医院，准备年后手术。
July 26, "Qingyin" 70-year-old mother because of bowel cancer admitted to the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Oncology Hospital, preparations for surgery after the year.
大年初七，医生递来一纸文件，让家属签字出院，“肿瘤病人抵抗力弱，医院担心交叉感染，疫情控制之前不再接待病人，也不做手术。
On the seventh day of the year, the doctor handed over a document, let the family sign out of the hospital, "tumor patients are weak resistance, the hospital worried about cross-infection, before the epidemic control no longer receive patients, nor surgery.
”“清音”是河北承德人，费了不少关系才让母亲住进这家全国知名的肿瘤医院，花了好几万元，还没等到手术竟然被“撵”回了家。
"Qingyin" was from Chengde, Hebei Province, and it took a lot of time for his mother to move into the country's famous oncology hospital and spend tens of thousands of yuan until the operation was "turned back.
“在这个特殊时期，既要保护好病人和家属，还要考虑到在院其他病人的安全。
"In this particular period, care must be taken not only to protect the sick and their families, but also the safety of other patients in the hospital.
”2月3日，中国医学科学院肿瘤医院院办回应南方周末记者采访时表示，根据卫健委发文，医院可根据实际情况采取适当措施。
In response to an interview with Southern Weekend reporter, the office of the Cancer Hospital of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences said on February 3 that hospitals could take appropriate measures according to the actual situation.
中国医学科学院肿瘤医院60%-70%为外地患者，肿瘤患者的抵抗力本来就非常弱，一旦感染，后果谁也承担不起。
The 60% -70% of the oncology hospital of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences is foreign patients, the resistance of cancer patients is already very weak, once infected, no one can afford consequences.
院办表示，将根据疫情情况决定何时恢复正常，届时将在各渠道通知。
The agency said it would decide when to resume normal in the light of the epidemic and would notify the authorities from all sources.
南方周末记者注意到，包括北京大学肿瘤医院在内，多家医院全面实施预约就诊，并暂时关闭了官网和官方微信的预约服务，现场已无法挂号、加号。
Southern Weekend reporter noted that many hospitals, including Peking University Oncology Hospital, fully implemented the appointment booking service, and temporarily closed the official website and official micro-letter booking service, the scene can no longer be registered, plus sign.
北京协和医院从2月3日至9日，每天只安排半天门诊，2月10日后根据北京市相关规定逐步恢复门诊。
Beijing Concorde Hospital from February 3 to 9, only a half-day clinic daily, February 10 in accordance with the relevant Beijing regulations gradually resume outpatient.
上海长海医院发布通知，从2月4日起暂停下午门诊，胃肠外科、肛肠外科、肝胆胰脾外科、放疗科等外科科室几乎全部停诊。
The Shanghai Changhai Hospital issued a notice suspending the afternoon clinic from February 4, and the surgery departments of gastrointestinal surgery, anal surgery, liver, pancreas and spleen surgery, radiotherapy etc.
有复旦大学附属中山医院的患者收到短信，原则上暂时不收治外地患者。
There are Fudan University affiliated Zhongshan Hospital patients received text messages, in principle, temporarily do not accept patients from abroad.
所有的措施都出于同样的考虑——减少人员聚集，防止交叉感染。
All of these measures are based on the same considerations - reducing crowding and preventing cross-infection.
“患者的治疗肯定会耽误。
"Treatment is bound to be delayed.
”云南省肿瘤医院胸外科副主任医师王昆告诉南方周末记者，人群聚集有相互传播“新冠肺炎”病毒的风险，更何况全国已经出现了一些无症状的“隐形感染者”，医院无法仅通过测量体温排除是否感染。
Wang Kun, vice-director of thoracic surgery at Yunnan's Oncology Hospital, told Southern Weekend that crowds were gathering to spread the virus and that there were already asymptomatic "invisible infections" across the country that could not be ruled out by measuring body temperature alone.
特殊时期，医院显著压缩收治人数，病人，一边保留透析室，血液透析各种检查基本暂停，没有诊断结果，手术自然也没法做。
During the special period, the number of patients admitted to the hospital was significantly reduced, patients were kept in dialysis rooms, various hemodialysis examinations were basically suspended, no diagnostic results were available, and the operation was naturally impossible.
医院规模越大，受到的影响似乎越大。
The bigger the hospital, the more likely it seems to be affected.
有偏远农村的患者试图在当地治疗，但对于一些化疗药和抗癌药，县医院的使用经验实在有限。
Patients in remote villages try to be treated locally, but county hospitals have limited experience with some chemotherapy and anticancer drugs.
因为伴有癌性发热，载病人看病的车根本进不了昆明市区，但其实，肿瘤患者的这种发热和感染“新冠肺炎”并无关系。
Because of the cancerous fever, the car carrying the patient can't get into Kunming city, but in fact, this kind of fever of cancer patient and infect "new crown pneumonia" is not related.
3常规诊疗亟待恢复武汉“新冠肺炎”疫情于2020年1月下旬升级，由于正值春节假期，其他常规型医疗工作全部搁置，医院专心投入新冠肺炎疫情的处理。
Routine medical treatment needs to restore Wuhan "new crown pneumonia" in late January 2020, due to the Spring Festival, other routine medical work has been put on hold, the hospital focused on the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic.
上海医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏早已注意到了节后的常规诊疗问题“，如果疫情不结束，难道其他疾病的病人就不看了?如果整个医疗系统全力对付新冠病毒，那有多少其他病人因为不能得到及时的诊疗而承受痛苦，是不是对这些病人不公平呢?”南方周末记者掌握的一份文件显示，1月28日，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部医疗救治组下发通知，要求做好疫情期间特殊病人的医疗保障工作，其中专门提到了要满足慢性肾衰病人、孕产妇、外科疾病等人群的医疗保健服务需求。
Zhang Wenhong, the head of the Shanghai Medical Treatment Expert Group and director of the infection department at Huashan Hospital, has long noted the problem of routine post-festival care. "If the epidemic does not end, will other patients not see it?
南方周末记者联系武汉市卫健委，询问如何保障肿瘤等其他特殊患者群体的就医需求，武汉市卫健委婉拒了采访。
Southern Weekend reporter contacted Wuhan city health committee, asked how to protect the tumor and other special groups of patients to seek medical treatment, Wuhan Weijian euphemism declined to interview.
2月4日，国家卫健委医政医管局副局长焦雅辉在新闻发布会上表示，国家卫健委已经下发了通知，要求全国所有医疗单位统筹做好肺炎疫情的救治和其他患者正常医疗需求之间的统筹工作，不能影响必需的急诊手术或急诊病人的就诊。
On February 4, the Deputy Director of the Hospital Authority, Jiao Yahui, said at a press conference that the State Health Council had issued a circular requiring all medical units in the country to coordinate the treatment of pneumonia cases with the regular medical needs of other patients, without affecting essential emergency surgery or emergency patient visits.
焦雅辉专门提到了原来就诊的医院被征用为定点医院的情况，“我们要求一定要把原来就诊的病人登记造册，每个病人都要给他办理好后续的治疗，特别是孕妇和血液透析病人等需要持续一段时间治疗的。
"We ask that the original patient be registered and registered, and that every patient be given follow-up treatment, especially for pregnant women and hemodialysis patients, who need some time to be treated.
”“二水”母亲的血小板危机似乎迎来了一线生机。
"Second water" mother's platelet crisis seems to usher in a glimmer of vitality.
2月1日下午，主管医生在微信上告诉他，医院可以给予母亲相应的治疗，前提是按照规定的流程就诊——先去急诊科排查是否属于“新冠肺炎”病人，如果不是，直接在急诊病房安排输血。
In the afternoon of 1 February, the doctor in charge informed him in a letter that the hospital could treat the mother accordingly, provided that the prescribed procedure was followed - first to the emergency department to check whether the patient was suffering from "new crown pneumonia" and, if not, to arrange a blood transfusion directly to the emergency ward.
不过，随之而来的是顾虑。
But then there are concerns.
中南医院同时接诊发热病人，在没有全套防护的前提下，母亲这样被感染风险极高的重症患者随时可能“中招”。
Central South Hospital at the same time to treat febrile patients, in the absence of a full set of protection, the mother such a high risk of serious infection may be "hit."
任何人去了都将成为密切接触者，回家后怎么办呢?在尿毒症患者的强烈要求下，一些被征用的医院一边接诊发热病人，一边保留透析室，血液透析的需求基本能够满足。
Anyone who goes will be in close contact with them. What will they do when they go home? At the strong request of the uremic patients, some of the hospitals requisitioned are treating febrile patients while retaining dialysis rooms, thus satisfying the need for hemodialysis.
由于机器有限，有些医院甚至开通了夜间透析。
Some hospitals have even opened night dialysis because of limited machines.
“新冠肺炎”的感染人数还在持续上升，在被征用的医院里的透析室透析风险很高，但这是尿毒症患者活下去的唯一选择。
The number of new cases continues to rise, and dialysis in dialysis rooms in requisitioned hospitals is at high risk, but it is the only option for people with uremia to survive.
一个有意思的现象是，王昆发现，一些原本节假日还忙着开会“飞刀”的外科医生，最近基本没什么活儿干，闲得在微信群里聊起了天。
Interestingly, Wang Kun found that some surgeons, who had been busy holding meetings on holidays and holidays, had little work to do these days.
北京、上海等地肿瘤相关科室的病房基本不收治外地病人，一些病房被清空，非急诊手术统统取消，“原先需要提前三个月排期，现在突然空了下来，有些大牌医生心理落差特别大。
The wards of oncology departments in Beijing and Shanghai were largely closed to patients from other places. Some wards were emptied and non-emergency surgeries were canceled.
”就算手术没被取消，血源也成了大问题。
Even if the operation had not been cancelled, blood supply would have been a big problem.
春节本就是献血淡季，各地通常会遭遇季节性血荒。
Spring Festival is the low season of blood donation, local usually encounter seasonal blood shortage.
今年春节，大多数人“宅”在家不出门，献血者更少。
This Spring Festival, most people "house" do not go out at home, blood donors less.
“血源稀缺，如果没有备血，手术只能延后。
"Blood is scarce and surgery can only be delayed if blood is not available.
”“清音”理解医院的无奈。
"Clear Voice" understands the helplessness of the hospital.
但眼下，规律治疗和常规用药的节奏确实已被打乱，“肿瘤进展不等人，人啊，其实说没就没。
But for now, the rhythm of regular therapy and routine medication has indeed been disrupted. "Tumors don't go anywhere, people do," he says.
”(为保护患者隐私，文中二水、陈诺、清音为化名)征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(To protect patients' privacy, Southern Weekend, which features Ershui, Cheno and Qingyin as aliases, is now soliciting news leads from all readers on the front lines of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些为新冠肺炎“让路”的患者：防止交叉感染，常规诊疗暂停。
Those who "give way" to new crown pneumonia: Prevent cross-infection, and pause in routine consultations.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "那些为新冠肺炎“让路”的患者：防止交叉感染，常规诊疗暂停";。
var msg _ title = & quot; those who "gave way" to new crown pneumonia: preventing cross-infection, and routinely suspending & quot;;;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
