疫情蔓延时，边陲县城徐闻的“另类”决定。
When the epidemic spread, the frontier county Xu Wen's "alternative" decision.
杜茂林。
Du Maolin.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲琼州海峡是自驾前往海南的必经之路，2020年1月25日，海口暂停湖北旅客上岛，大批过路人滞留徐闻。
Qiongzhou Strait is a must-drive to Hainan Island, January 25, 2020, Haikou, Hubei tourists on the island, a large number of passers-by stayed Xu Wen.
图为1月28日，在海口秀英港轮渡码头，工作人员为自驾车司机测量体温。
A motorist takes his temperature at the ferry pier in the port of Xiuying, Haikou, January 28, 2002.
（新华社/图）全文共3551字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3,551 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
打向徐闻县疾控中心的电话越来越多，一时之间，恐慌和排斥情绪笼罩着县城。
CDC call Xu Wenxian more and more calls, for a while, panic and rejection over the county.
结果有些出乎她的意料。
The result was somewhat unexpected.
住宿和饮食都是免费的，还有饮料水果提供，每天政府还会提供一个口罩，一到两天会有医生过来消毒。
Accommodation and food are free, drinks and fruit are provided, a mask is provided every day and doctors come to disinfect them in a day or two.
“房间里清洁打扫是我自己做。
"I did my own cleaning in the room.
”截至2020年2月3日20时，这家有一百多个房间的酒店已经接待湖北籍旅客153人，尚未发现确诊病例。
As at 2000 hours on February 3, 2020, the hotel, which has more than 100 rooms, had 153 residents from Hubei province and no confirmed cases had been found.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 杜茂林南方周末特约撰稿 蒋芷毓责任编辑 | 吴筱羽2020年1月20日，旅客日吞吐量高达13万人次的琼州海峡一侧，广东湛江市徐闻县一如往常繁忙却安静，承担着通往海南的交通要道功能。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint Jiang Zhiyu, a reporter at Southern Weekend reporter Jiang Zhiyu, the responsible editor and official writer. Wu Xiaoyu, who handles 130,000 passengers a day on the Qiongzhou Strait on January 20, 2020, is as busy but quiet as ever, assuming the function of a major transportation route to Hainan.
这天夜里，院士钟南山出现在央视连线中，对公众确认武汉新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎“人传人”，惊醒了武汉人，也惊醒了全国人。
That night, academician Zhong Nan Shan appeared on CCTV line, confirmed to the public Wuhan new coronavirus infection "person-to-person" pneumonia, woke up the Wuhan people, but also woke up the nation.
岁末年初是南国的旅游旺季，很多在外出游的湖北籍旅客，却因1月23日的武汉“封城令”，被阻隔在城市酒店之外，在异乡流浪。
The end of the year is the peak season for tourism in southern China, many expats of Hubei nationality, but due to the January 23 "closure order" in Wuhan, were blocked from the city hotel, wandering in a foreign country.
突然暴发的疫情，也让面积仅1605平方公里的偏远小县城，突然面临着防疫和安置湖北籍人士的压力。
The sudden outbreak of the outbreak, the area of only 1605 square kilometers of small remote county, suddenly faced epidemic prevention and resettlement of Hubei people under pressure.
徐闻县城南面，一个由县政府临时决定设立的安置点落在远离居民区的华通宾馆处。
To the south of Xu Wenxian, a temporary settlement decided by the county government landed at the Huatong Hotel, far from the residential area.
县防控工作领导小组办公室工作人员小向介绍，1月25日开始，县政府为湖北籍旅客提供了一家专门用来集中进行医学观察的酒店。
Since January 25, the county government has provided a hotel for Hubei residents to focus on medical observation.
也是在这天，海口暂停湖北旅客上岛，大批过路人滞留在这座南方县城。
Also on this day, Haikou suspended Hubei tourists on the island, a large number of passers-by in this southern county.
截至2月3日20时，这家有一百多个房间的酒店已经接待湖北籍旅客153人，至今尚未发现确诊病例。
By 2000 hours on February 3, the hotel, with more than 100 rooms, had received 153 visitors from Hubei province and no confirmed cases had been found.
正是这一举动，徐闻县成为了网上最先善待“武汉人”的城市。
It is this move, Xu Wenxian became the first online good treatment of "Wuhan people" the city.
但少为人知的是，徐闻县政府的这一举动，也曾遭受过阻力和非议。
But less well known, Xu Wenxian government of this move, has also encountered resistance and criticism.
用负责湖北籍旅客统筹安置的徐闻县机关事务管理局副局长梁光琉的话说，“这是一个大胆而及时的决定。
"It was a bold and timely decision," said Liang Guangyu, deputy director of the Xuwen County Administration, who was in charge of coordinating the resettlement of Hubei tourists.
”1突然的滞留和广东湛江下辖的其他市县一样，徐闻这座小县城，在最初迎来这群来自湖北的客人时，也是惊慌失措的。
Like other cities and counties under Guangdong's Zhanjiang River, Xu Wen, the small county seat, was stunned when it first welcomed visitors from Hubei.
徐闻扼守南海航道咽喉的雷州半岛最南侧，与海南岛隔海相望。
Xu Wen's southernmost peninsula of the South China Sea fairway, across the sea from Hainan Island.
到冬天“，候鸟”一样的旅客奔向南方，徐闻则是自驾经琼州海峡渡海前往海南的必经之地。
In winter, "migratory birds" like passengers rushed to the south, Xu Wen is a self-driving across the Channel to Hainan.
据湛江晚报报道，广东省海峡办发布消息称，2020年1月20日，琼州海峡旅客吞吐量达135127人，其中进岛83283人。
According to the Zhanjiang Evening News, the Guangdong Straits Office announced that on January 20, 2020, 135,127 passengers crossed the Strait of Jonglei, 83,283 of them on the island.
这里面难免有湖北籍的旅客。
There will inevitably be visitors of Hubei nationality.
惊慌首先来自徐闻县城的老百姓。
Panic first came from the people of Xuwen County.
随着疫情蔓延，在他们眼中，将“武汉人”与“病毒”划上等号的想法再正常不过。
As the epidemic spreads, the idea of equating "Wuhan people" with "virus" seems perfectly normal to them.
一些市民一旦发现自己楼下、马路旁停泊了鄂牌车辆，纷纷拍照，发到微博、朋友圈。
Some citizens once found themselves downstairs, parked beside the horse Er car, took photos, sent to Weibo, friends circle.
情绪逐渐累积。
Emotions build up gradually.
一面是滞留在徐闻的众多鄂A车辆，一面是还没戴上口罩的徐闻人，有网友呼吁，“政府重视起来，救救徐闻，救救湛江”。
On the one hand is stuck in Xu Wen's numerous E-E vehicles, on the other hand is not wearing masks Xu Wen, some netizens called, "the government attaches importance to save Xu Wen, save Zhanjiang."
徐闻当地一家羊粥铺老板告诉南方周末记者，那几天，来店里吃饭的人，他都要问问是不是湖北人。
Xu Wen, a local sheep porridge shop owner told Southern Weekend reporter, those days, the restaurant diners, he would like to ask whether Hubei people.
打向徐闻县疾控中心的电话越来越多，亲朋好友同心同力，看到鄂牌车辆就赶紧“举报”。
Call Xuwen County CDC calls more and more, relatives and friends with the same force, see Hubei car hurriedly "report."
一时之间，恐慌和排斥情绪笼罩着县城。
For a moment, panic and rejection enveloped the county.
政府很快感受到了压力。
The government soon felt the pressure.
据梁光琉回忆，25日一早县委、县政府就召开了紧急会议，商讨对策。
According to the recollection of Liang Guangyu, the county party and county government held an emergency meeting early on the 25th morning to discuss the countermeasure.
梁光琉没有参加会议。
Liang Guangyu did not attend the meeting.
事后他才从参会领导那了解到，会上争议激烈：有人认为县城防控力量薄弱，应该默许老百姓的行为。
Later he learned from the leadership of the meeting, the meeting was highly controversial: some people believe that the county control power is weak, should acquiesce to the behavior of the people.
“最终，县主要领导决定指定一间不靠近民居的宾馆收留湖北人进行医学观察。
"In the end, the county's main leaders decided to designate a hotel not close to the residence to take in Hubei people for medical observation.
”事后谈及此事，梁光琉依然能感觉到当时的压力。
Talking of it afterwards, Liang Guangyu could still feel the pressure of the time.
事实也的确如此，多位前往徐闻县指定酒店的湖北籍旅客向南方周末记者介绍，当时湛江下辖其他市县都没有这样的决定，他们也是被多个酒店拒绝，不得已才“逃”到了这里。
Indeed, many Hubei tourists who went to the designated hotel in Xuwen County told Southern Weekend reporter that Zhanjiang other cities and counties under his jurisdiction did not have such a decision, they were also rejected by several hotels, had to "escape" here.
一个有意思的细节是，事后有徐闻县工作人员在解释这项政策时，反复强调这是根据上级部署作出的决定。
An interesting detail is that Xu Wenxian staff, in explaining the policy, repeatedly stressed that it was decided on the basis of superior deployment.
但在梁光琉的描述中，由于这并非强制集中隔离，因此没有向更上级报备。
However, in Liang Guangyu's description, no higher authority was notified as this was not mandatory centralized segregation.
会议结束后，徐闻县成立了新型冠状病毒疫情防控工作指挥部，并发布告示，自2020年1月26日12时起，对来自湖北尤其是武汉、过海途经徐闻的旅客进行集中医学健康观察14天，地点在徐闻县徐闻大道华通酒店。
After the meeting, Xu Wenxian set up a new coronavirus epidemic prevention and control command, and issued a notice that from January 26, 2020, HuangWen tourists from Hubei, particularly Wuhan, through Xu Wen concentrated medical health observation for 14 days, at the Huatong Hotel Xu Wen Road, Xuwen County.
告示发布后，经社交媒体上大量转发，自愿来徐闻安置的湖北旅客越来越多，还有人从广西自驾前来。
After the announcement, a large number of social media relayed, Xu Wen resettlement of Hubei tourists more and more, and some people from Guangxi self-driving.
临时被抽调到防控指挥部工作的小向也印证了这一说法。
This is confirmed by the temporary redeployment to the command post.
告示一经网络传播，“办公室电话都快打爆了”。
Once the notice spread online, "the office phone is about to explode".
其中也有滞留在各个地方的湖北人，希望来徐闻安置。
Among them are also stranded in various places Hubei people, hope to come to Xu Wen resettlement.
2“不理解、不配合”但事情执行起来并非想象的那么顺利，毕竟疫情愈发严重。
2 "Do not understand, do not cooperate" But the implementation of things is not as smooth as expected, after all, the epidemic is getting worse.
1月26日，徐闻县安置湖北人当天，也是武汉“封城”的第四天，湖北省公布的确诊新冠肺炎的病例就已经达到了371例，相比于前一天，又增加了24例。
On January 26, the day Xu Wenxian settled Hubei people, the fourth day of the city's closure, 371 new cases of pneumonia were reported in Hubei province, an increase of 24 cases over the previous day.
同样是在这天，武汉市市长周先旺在新型肺炎疫情防控工作新闻发布会上表示，因春节和疫情的因素，有五百多万人离开了武汉，引发极大关注。
Also on the same day, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang told a news conference on the prevention and control of the new pneumonia epidemic that more than five million people had left Wuhan due to the Spring Festival and the outbreak.
五百多万人去了哪？这成了媒体和公众最为关心的问题。
Where have more than five million people gone? This has become a media and public concern.
第一财经·新一线城市研究所引用的迁徙大数据显示，1月10日至1月22日春运期间（武汉封城之前），从武汉出发的人有六至七成前往了湖北省内其他城市，其次是河南省、湖南省、安徽省、重庆市、江西省。
According to big migration data cited by the First Finance & amp; Finance & amp; New Frontier Urban Research Institute, between January 10 and January 22 (before the city was closed in Wuhan), 60 to 70 percent of those leaving Wuhan went to other cities in Hubei Province, followed by Henan Province, Hunan Province, Anhui Province, Chongqing City and Jiangxi Province.
在全国多个地方对湖北人亮起“红灯”时，徐闻县的决策还是遭到了一些本地市民的质疑。
In many parts of the country to Hubei people when the "red light", Xu Wenxian's decision-making or some local residents questioned.
“当时有市民打电话来吵，说你们都不要命了，把（武汉）人留在这。
"Some people called to argue that you were all dead and left the [Wuhan] people here.
”小向说，当湖北旅客到指定的华通酒店时，酒店的服务员也跑了。
"When Hubei tourists arrived at the designated Huatong hotel, the hotel attendants ran away," Xiao said.
责问不仅来自本地人，徐闻甚至在邻县人民心中也成了“疫区”。
Asking not only from the local people, Xu Wen even in the hearts of the people in neighbouring counties has become an "epidemic area."
距离徐闻两百多公里的高州市，当地一居民告诉南方周末记者，隔壁村有一个从徐闻回来探亲的人，大家表面上不会说什么，但私底下会互相告知不要去她家附近。
A resident of Gaozhou, more than 200 kilometers away, told Southern Weekend reporter that there was a visitor from the next village who had come back from Xu Wen.
他说，本地人是从新闻里了解到武汉人滞留徐闻的消息，因此徐闻也变得“危险”起来。
He said local people learned from the news that the Wuhan people stay in Xu Wen, so Xu Wen has also become "dangerous."
不过，乡下邻里都互相认识，并没有到赶他们走或者举报的程度，但出于对疫区人民的敏感，还是有些抵触。
However, rural neighborhoods do not know each other to the extent of forcing them out or reporting them, but there is some resistance because of their sensitivity to the people in the affected areas.
遇到不理解、不配合，但防控还得做。
There is a lack of understanding and cooperation, but prevention and control have to be done.
县指挥部只好动员机关单位的干部、民间志愿者和医务人员轮流值守。
The county command had to mobilize cadres, non-governmental volunteers and medical personnel in turn to guard.
按照小向的说法，当地成立了临时党小组，并抽调各乡镇卫生员轮流值守，“每三天换一批”。
According to the small talk, the local formed a temporary party group, and the township health workers in rotation, "every three days for a change."
目前该安置点有二十多个固定工作人员，再加上轮班医生、安保人员和志愿者，总共六十多人。
It currently has more than 20 permanent staff, plus shifts of doctors, security personnel and volunteers, for a total of more than 60 persons.
南方周末记者注意到，徐闻县对待湖北籍旅客或有湖北旅游史人员进行集中医学观察模式，被多地效仿。
Southern Weekend reporter noted that Xu Wen County to Hubei tourists or have a history of Hubei medical observation model, has been emulated.
例如厦门市政府将鼓浪屿上所有武汉游客迁移出岛，安置酒店隔离观察。
Xiamen, for example, the city government will Gulangyu all Wuhan tourists out of the island, the hotel isolation observation.
云南、海南等省份也相继发布公告，要求各地市为旅行在外的湖北游客提供帮助。
Yunnan, Hainan and other provinces have also issued notices, requiring cities to travel outside Hubei to provide assistance.
人员问题解决了，住宿解决了，对指挥部而言，是怎么解决他们的吃饭问题。
The personnel problem has been solved, the accommodation has been solved, for the headquarters, how to solve their food problem.
梁光琉介绍，25日湖北旅客刚来时，徐闻当地餐厅大多已经关闭，他们只能找些大排档吃饭。
When Hubei tourists first arrived on the 25th, Xu heard that most of the local restaurants had been closed. All they could do was find some stalls to eat.
梁光琉担心不卫生，容易导致腹泻，就统一安排一家快餐店准备饮食。
Liang Kwong-yuk worried about being unsanitary and prone to diarrhea arranged a fast food restaurant to prepare a meal.
但市场监管局说这家店卫生标准达不到。
But the market regulator says the store's hygiene standards are not up to par.
梁光琉只好找到华通酒店的老板，重新启用华通设备到位的厨房，这样距离近，饮食卫生也达标。
Liang Guangyu had to find the owner of Huatong Hotel and re-use Huatong's equipped kitchen, which was so close that it met the standards of food hygiene.
3连夜赶往徐闻的人安置总算走上了正轨。
The resettlement of those who rushed to Xu Wen overnight finally got off the right track.
小向说，每天早上8点和下午3点，医务人员都会上门为湖北旅客测量体温两次，并定时汇报体温监测情况给防疫工作小组办公室。
Every morning at 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., medical staff take temperature measurements twice a day for Hubei travellers and regularly report temperature monitoring to the epidemic prevention team office, Xiao said.
武汉籍旅客刘庆是最早入住徐闻县指定酒店的那批旅客之一。
Wuhan passenger Liu Qing is the earliest to stay in the designated hotel Xuwen County one of the group of tourists.
刘庆原本计划25日在雷州市（隶属湛江）住上一晚，第二天再启程自驾前往三亚。
Liu had planned to spend the night in Leizhou, which is part of Zhanjiang, before leaving for Sanya the next day.
旅途在这天脱离了预期的航道。
The journey deviated from the expected course on this day.
在雷州预定的酒店以“上面有要求”为由，拒绝了她的入住。
She was refused admission to a hotel in Leizhou on the grounds that it was "required above."
知道自己的身份“闯了祸”，刘庆也没有辩解和纠缠便准备离开。
Know their identity "in trouble", Liu Qing also has no excuse and entanglement is ready to leave.
此时已是晚上9点，当地疾控中心和警察找到了她，量了体温。
It was 9 p. m., when the local CDC and police found her and took her temperature.
结果显示正常，眼看天色已晚，疾控中心和酒店方面帮她联系了一个度假村，老板也同意她入住。
The results showed that it was getting late and the CDC and the hotel contacted her at a resort and her boss agreed to stay with her.
但很快她的车辆引起了当地人的注意。
But soon her car caught the attention of the locals.
“他们就在楼上喊，说的方言我听不懂，但我大概能感觉到气氛不对，就是要轰我走的感觉。
"They shouted upstairs, in a dialect I couldn't understand, but I could probably feel the atmosphere was wrong, the feeling of letting me go.
”刘庆告诉南方周末记者，幸亏有好心人告诉她，徐闻有政府安排的住处。
"Liu Qing told Southern Weekend reporter, thanks to a kind person told her, Xu Wen has a government arranged accommodation.
旅行再一次成为了“流浪”。
Once again, travel has become "vagrancy."
刘庆的遭遇绝非孤例。
Liu Qing's experience is by no means isolated.
其时湖北人在异乡可能遭遇的“尴尬”和“误解”还未引起足够的重视。
At that time, Hubei people in a foreign country may encounter "embarrassment" and "misunderstanding" has not attracted enough attention.
直到1月27日，武汉市文旅局发布《致兄弟城市旅游行业同仁的一封信》，信中特意请求，“兄弟城市文化和旅游部门继续给予大力协调和排忧解难，对所有在外旅行的武汉市民给予必要的帮助，让他们更深切地感受到兄弟城市的温暖和关爱”。
On January 27, the Wuhan Bureau of Culture and Tourism issued a letter to colleagues in the tourism industry of fraternal cities, in which the Bureau specifically requested that "the cultural and tourism departments of fraternal cities continue to provide strong coordination and relief, and provide necessary assistance to all Wuhan residents traveling abroad so that they may have a deeper appreciation of the warmth and care of fraternal cities."
25日夜里前往徐闻的刘庆，还没接收到温暖，反而是忐忑陪伴了她一路。
On the night of 25 Liu Qing to Xu Wen, has not received warmth, but is perturbed to accompany her all the way.
她担心酒店的卫生条件不好，还担心住进去后出现交叉感染。
She was worried about the unhygienic condition of the hotel and about cross-infection if she moved in.
但无处可去的她，也只能选择徐闻。
But nowhere to go, she can only choose Xu Wen.
结果有些出乎她的意料。
The result was somewhat unexpected.
住宿和饮食都是免费的，还有饮料水果提供，每天政府还会提供一个口罩，一到两天会有医生过来消毒，“房间里清洁打扫是我自己做”。
Accommodation and food are free, drinks and fruit are provided, a mask is provided every day, a doctor comes in a day or two, and "I do the cleaning."
事实上，南方周末记者注意到，徐闻县在当地算是一个经济不发达地区，工业并不发达。
In fact, Southern Weekend reporter noted that Xu Wenxian in the local economy is an underdeveloped area, industry is not developed.
2018年徐闻全县经济生产总值190.6亿元，排在湛江市9个县（市区）的倒数第二位。
In 2018, Xu Wen County's economic output reached 19.06 billion yuan, ranking second to last in nine counties (urban areas) in Zhanjiang City.
在梁光琉看来，政府能下决心提供免费食宿并不容易。
In Ryuk's view, it was not easy for the Government to make up its mind to provide free accommodation.
“目前工作人员的防护装备还比较缺乏，有些工作人员只穿着一次性雨衣作为防护服的替代。
"There is still a shortage of protective equipment for staff and some staff are wearing only disposable raincoats as an alternative to protective clothing.
”另一方面，民间的气氛也在逐渐好转。
On the other hand, the atmosphere among the people is gradually improving.
南方周末记者了解到，现在徐闻当地人有人送水果、牛奶、方便面等物资给湖北旅客，徐闻商会也组织了企业家为湖北捐款。
Southern Weekend reporter learned that Xu heard that some local people sent fruit, milk, instant noodles and other materials to Hubei tourists, Xu Wen Chamber of Commerce also organized entrepreneurs to donate money to Hubei.
自1月25日0时至2月5日12时，广东省累计增加确诊病例797例，湛江增加18例，但徐闻还未有一例确诊病例，这或许是市民的信心和包容都在恢复的原因之一。
From 0000 hours on January 25 to 1200 hours on February 5, a cumulative total of 797 cases and 18 cases of Zhanjiang have been confirmed in Guangdong Province. However, Xu has not reported any confirmed cases, which may be one of the reasons why public confidence and tolerance have been restored.
2月5日，梁光琉证实，徐闻第一批86名湖北籍旅客已解除医学观察。
On February 5, Ryuk confirmed that the first batch of 86 Hubei tourists had been released from medical observation.
按照他的说法，广东省防控指挥部要求，根据大数据监控，进入广东境内期满14天的湖北籍旅客，在没有异常症状的情况下，就可以解除隔离。
According to him, the Guangdong Provincial Control and Prevention Command has requested that, based on big data monitoring, Hubei tourists entering Guangdong province who have reached the end of the 14-day period can be relieved of isolation without abnormal symptoms.
“他们将获得徐闻县海安卫生院颁发的健康证。
"They will get a health certificate from the Hainan Health Center in Xuwen County.
”梁光琉说，其他地方看到他们的健康证后，会按规定给予放行。
Liang said other places would be given clearance after seeing their health certificates.
（应受访者要求，小向为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
At the request of the interviewee, Xiao Xiang solicited Southern Weekend, which is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情蔓延时，边陲县城徐闻的“另类”决定。
When the epidemic spread, the frontier county Xu Wen's "alternative" decision.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情蔓延时，边陲县城徐闻的“另类”决定";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by Xu Wen, the border county.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
