北美“百万口罩”计划“翻车”记：“了不起的年轻人”，还是“沽名钓誉的国际贸易贩子”？ - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
North America's Million Mask Mask Program "Flip Down": "Great Young People" or "Fingerful Traffickers in International Trade"? - Economic Watch - Professional Financial News Website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="刘可";。
Var auther = & quot; Liu & quot;;
北美“百万口罩”计划“翻车”记：“了不起的年轻人”，还是“沽名钓誉的国际贸易贩子”？。
North America's Million Mask Mask Program "Turnover": "Great young people" or "Sell for Fitch's International Trade Trader"?
刘可2020-02-06 10:48。
Liu Ke 2020-02-06 10: 48.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 刘可1月28日，一条“北美留学生募集到340万防护服捐给武汉”的视频迅速在网络上蹿红。
A video of North American students collecting 3.4 million protective clothing for donation to Wuhan jumped on the Internet Monday.
“百万口罩”计划的发起人刘狄青在视频中说道：“我们在阿拉巴马州筹集到了340万防护服，估计是在美国能找到最大的货量了，能供国内一个月的需求量。
"We've raised 3.4 million pieces of protective clothing in Alabama, and we expect to find the largest quantity in the United States for a month of domestic demand," Liu Di-ching, the founder of the One Million Mask Program, said in the video.
”。
"
在全网一片赞誉之后的不到24个小时内，就有人质疑防护服根本未到武汉、学生根本没有资金购买、防护服标准是工业用而非医用等问题后，网络舆论迅速转向，“了不起的年轻人”被“沽名钓誉的国际贸易贩子”所取代。
Less than 24 hours after the praise spread, online public opinion quickly shifted to questioning whether suits had ever arrived in Wuhan, students had no money to buy them at all, and standards for protective clothing were industrial rather than medical. "Great young people" were replaced by "international traders for prestige."
。
.
“边跑边装”的车？。
"Running while dressing" car?
在黄励勤看来，整个“百万口罩”就像是一辆“边跑边装的车”。
To Mr Huang, the "one-million-dollar mask" is like a "running car."
“这个车跑得其实是很快的，缺什么也可以把东西装上，比如说我们在过程中遇到了什么问题，马上就可以联系到相应的人能帮忙。
"It's a fast-moving car and you can put things on if you need anything. If you have any problems in the process, you can contact the right person right away.
但可能边跑边会掉零件。
But parts can fall off as you run.
”。
"
1月23日上午10时，武汉“封城”，一线医护人员医用物资短缺，武汉向全社会求援。
January 23 10: 00 a.m., Wuhan "closed the city," the first-line medical supplies shortage, Wuhan to the whole society for help.
据黄励勤介绍，“百万口罩” 计划也正是在这一天成立。
The Million Mask Program was set up on the same day, according to Mr Huang.
黄励勤是该计划的主要参与者之一。
Mr Wong is one of the main participants in the scheme.
。
.
此计划由部分北美留学生首先发起，主要参与的志愿者也都是在大学在校生，年龄多在20岁左右。
The program was first launched by some North American students and involved mainly university students, mostly in their 20s.
该计划一方面号召北美留学生们在身边商超购买符合国家捐赠标准的口罩、护目镜、防护服等物资后，寄送到美国加利福尼亚州，再组织统一寄送回国；另一方面“百万口罩”北美援助小组的成员也试图通过联系美国当地的物资货源，通过企业认捐的方式购买物资，最终将所有物资运往武汉。
The plan calls on North American students to buy masks, goggles and protective clothing in line with state donation standards before sending them back to California to be sent back home. Members of the MSM team are also trying to buy supplies through corporate donations and eventually ship them to Wuhan.
。
.
在过去的一个星期，黄励勤一直为此忙碌。
Over the past week, Mr Huang has been busy.
他是团队里的物资负责人，备受争议的“340万防护服”也是由他最先发现并开始对接的。
He was the head of the team and the controversial "3.4 million suit" was the first to be found and docked.
对于争议，黄励勤表示，截至2月3日，在340万件工业用防护服中，援助小组在清点后只抢下了大概41万件，其中13万件在企业认购后已经发往国内。
In response to the controversy, Mr Wong said that as at February 3, only about 410,000 of the 3.4 million industrial protective clothing items had been seized by aid teams, of which 130,000 had been dispatched to China after subscription by enterprises.
。
.
“车跑得很快但可能会翻车。
"The car is running fast but could overturn.
你翻了一个车之后，人家都记着你翻车的丑样，记得你翻车的惨状，而不是看到你翻车之后很快又站起，很快把七零八落的零件重新拼成一辆车然后继续跑。
When you turn over a car, people remember the ugly way you overturned, remember you overturned, rather than see you turn over and soon stand up, quickly re-pieces into a car and then continue to run.
” 黄励勤说到，“就翻车砸的那一声的响声比别的声音都大。
"said Mr Huang," the sound of the car toppling was louder than any other.
”。
"
“其实我们也没翻车，只是被曲解了一下而已” 黄励勤向记者强调。
"In fact, we did not overturn the car, just been misinterpreted just a bit," Huang told reporters.
。
.
发现数百万件防护服？。
Millions of protective suits found?
最开始“百万口罩”北美援助小组的工作就是不停地打电话。
At first, the "Million Mask" team in North America was working on the phone all the time.
在黄励勤的描述中，那时援助小组里并没有明确的分工，大家就不停地拨打能找到的全世界各大物资零售商的电话，去找有口罩、护目镜、防护服现货的网站。
In Mr Huang's description, there was no clear division of labour in the aid group at the time, and calls were constantly being made to all major retailers of goods around the world to find websites with masks, goggles, and protective clothing on hand.
这样的模式只持续了约24个小时，因为他们发现网站的物资很快就被抢空了。
The pattern lasted only about 24 hours, as they discovered that the site's contents were quickly taken away.
。
.
援助小组开始紧锣密鼓地筹备的下一项工作是发官方推文，号召有物资的企业和留学生群体捐募。
The next step, which the aid group has begun to prepare intensively, is to send out official tweets calling for donations from companies and groups of international students.
推文中写着，“我们希望所有有相关医护物资的组织和个人，可以联系我们，经由我们的绿色通道将物资尽快的运输到国内”，并列举了可接受捐赠的医用物资型号。
"We hope that all organizations and individuals with relevant medical supplies can contact us and deliver the materials to China as soon as possible through our Green Channel," the paper said, citing the types of medical materials that can be donated.
对于“绿色通道”，黄励勤表示是援助小组中的运输组有联系到相关贸易公司可帮助清关。
For the "Green Channel," Mr Wong said that the Transport Section of the assistance team was linked to the relevant trading companies to help clear the customs.
。
.
“我们一开始用的标准非常严格，口罩只收医用N95级别，防护服只收3M的4565型号。
"We started out with a very strict standard, taking only N95 medical masks and 4565 models of protective clothing.
是后来前线不停传来消息告诉我们，他们什么都没有，我们才慢慢开始慢慢放低标准。
It was the news from the front line that told us they had nothing and that we were slowly starting to slow down.
” 黄励勤表示，在筹备推文的时候援助小组就开始有了分工，谁负责物流，谁负责物资搜集，谁负责管理对接逐渐明晰。
Mr Huang said the division of labour between the teams began when preparing the tweets, with who would be responsible for logistics, who would be responsible for material collection and who would manage the docking.
为确保援助小组的标准可以得到落实，援助小组建立了验货机制。
To ensure that the standards of the Assistance Group are implemented, the Assistance Team has established inspection mechanisms.
所有公众想要捐赠的物资必须经过组内工作根据其提供的产品信息进行核验，期间组内工作人员会要求捐赠者自行电话核实货品的真实库存情况。
All materials intended to be donated by the public must be checked against the product information provided by the team, during which time the staff of the group will request the donor to verify the true inventory of the goods by telephone.
。
.
团队规模也在这过程中迅速扩大，由最初包括黄励勤在内只有7个人发展到超过50个人，如果将其后进采购物资审核群负责验货的志愿者也计算在内，援助小组的总人数应超过80人。
The size of the team also expanded rapidly in this process, from just seven people, including Mr Huang, to more than 50 people, and the total number of assistance teams should be more than 80 if the volunteers in charge of the subsequent procurement review group are included.
。
.
尽管准备不算充分，但这辆“车”就这样在一声声加油中跑动起来。
Though not well prepared, the "car" thus ran in a roaring voice.
据黄励勤介绍，他作为物资协调负责人每天微信里都有上千条微信待回复，这其中有武汉一线急缺物资的医院负责人、有表示希望捐款或者认捐的企业、有分散在北美各地可提供物资的经销商或零售商。
Huang said he had thousands of letters waiting to be answered, including the head of Wuhan's first-line hospital, companies wishing to donate or pledge money, and distributors or retailers scattered throughout North America.
。
.
直到1月31日下午，黄励勤无意间发现在自己的微信中躺着一条这样的消息“阿拉巴马的一个仓库里面有数百万件防护服！”。
On the afternoon of January 31, Mr Huang found himself lying in a microphone with the message "There are millions of protective suits in a warehouse in Alabama!"
“翻车”。
"Overturn".
在那人提供的防护服仓储表里面，黄励勤看到了杜邦品牌的Tychem QC120和Tychem 200这两个型号的防护服。
In the protective clothing warehouse form provided by the man, Huang Lai-qin saw two models of protective clothing from DuPont brand Tychem QC120 and Tychem 200.
通过查询，黄励勤了解到这种型号的防护服是可以防血液传播疾病（例如埃博拉病毒），并且通过了ASTM1670标准（防护织物用抗合成血液渗透材料的标准试验方法 ）。
Upon enquiry, Mr Wong learned that this model of protective clothing was a blood-borne disease (e.g. Ebola virus) and passed the ASTM 1670 standard (standard test method for synthetic blood permeable materials for protective fabrics).
QC120在仓库中共有约20万件，但经过多方沟通，黄励勤发现这二十几万件并不符合当时官方公布的国内医药采购标准，并且该型号已经被杜邦官方下架，能搜集到的信息有限。
QC120 had about 200,000 pieces in the warehouse, but after much communication, Huang found that the 200,000 pieces did not meet the official domestic medicine procurement standards published at the time, and that the model had been removed from the shelves by DuPont officials and limited information could be gathered.
。
.
对于这引起争议的，总量约在340万防护服最大的质疑，就是这340万件防护服只是工业用品。
The biggest challenge to the controversial, roughly 3.4 million protective clothing, is that the 3.4 million pieces are just industrial supplies.
“lolali岛屿”（网名）的微博中写着这样的话：“不专业的物资送到武汉一线，不能防血污病毒，就是杀人。
The "Lolali island" micro-blog wrote: "Unprofessional materials sent to the Wuhan line, can not prevent blood-tainted virus, is killing.
”。
"
但黄励勤认为，这340万件工业用防护服经其查证均通过了ASTM1670防血液传播疾病标准，其中30万件Posiwear品牌的防护服通过了更高级的ASTM1671标准可以抵抗空气传播疾病 。
But Mr Wong said the 3.4 million pieces of industrial protective clothing had passed the ASTM 1670 standard for blood-borne diseases and 300,000 of the Posiwear-branded suits passed the more advanced ASTM 1671 standard to protect against airborne diseases.
“我们在对这批防护服与资方进行协调的时候有跟资方说，这个是工业品，它不是医疗用品，但可以用于二三线人员，比如说警察、清洁工，以及这种维护城市正常运输的人员。
"When we were coordinating with the management about this suit, we told the management that it was an industrial product, it was not a medical product, but it could be used by second and third-line personnel, such as police, cleaners, and the people who maintain the normal traffic in the city.
” 黄励勤这样说。
"said Mr Huang.
而对于“百万口罩”计划高价代购引起口罩价格上涨一说，黄励勤则表示，这340万件工业用防护服属压仓货，单件防护服价格谈到了3美元一件。
Huang said the 3.4 million pieces of industrial protective clothing were in pressurized stores and the price of one-piece protective clothing was $3 a piece.
。
.
黄励勤现在也还是希望能找到认捐的企业，能将这340万防护服运往国内。
Mr Huang also now hopes to find companies that pledge to ship the 3.4 million suits to China.
对于为什么不接受捐款,而只在中间协调采用接受企业认捐的形式。
Instead of accepting contributions, coordination takes the form of accepting corporate pledges only in the middle.
黄励勤表示，在美国所有能接受公众捐款的非盈利组织都应具有501(c)(3)资格。
Mr Wong said all non-profit organizations in the US that could receive public donations should be eligible for 501 (c) (3) status.
美国国内税收法中的一项条款规定向大多数501(c)(3)组织提供捐赠者可以享受对应金额的联邦所得税减免优惠。
A provision in United States domestic tax law provides for a federal income tax credit to most 501 (c) (3) organizations for which the donor is entitled to a matching amount.
由于这项与捐赠相关联的减税条款的存在，是否具有501(c)(3)资格对一个非盈利组织的维持和运作而言至关重要，但此资格的审核时间较长。
As a result of the existence of the tax reduction clause associated with the donation, eligibility for 501 (c) (3) is essential for the maintenance and operation of a non-profit organization, but it takes a longer time to review such eligibility.
。
.
除此之外，黄励勤认为，如果接受捐赠就需要有审计公司介入，确保更高要求的公正透明。
In addition, Mr Wong believed that accepting donations would require the involvement of auditing firms to ensure greater fairness and transparency.
“你怎么能保证你能把这些钱全部用完？如果买不到物资，钱只好堆在那里。
"How can you guarantee that you'll run out of all this money? If you can't get supplies, you'll have to pile up there.
所以我们‘百万口罩’其中一条原则就是，绝不碰一分钱。
So one of the principles of our Million Mask Mask is never to touch a penny.
”。
"
找企业资方出钱认捐或认购尚不算最难，但很多资方一定要求货源能过提供“三证”，即厂家的执照、医疗器械注册证和检测报告。
It is not the hardest thing to pledge or subscribe, but many management insist that the source can provide "three certificates," that is, the manufacturer's license, medical device registration certificate and test report.
但是黄励勤在实际对接过程中发现，因为美国采取的是公示制，一般分为厂家、经销商、分销商和零售商四个环节。
But in the actual docking process, Hwang Lai-qin found that because the United States adopted a public notice system, generally divided into manufacturers, dealers, distributors and retailers four links.
但援助小组成员一般都是接触到是最后的分销商跟零售商，往往他们并不能做到“三证齐全”。
But members of aid groups are usually approached as distributors and retailers of last resort, and often they are not able to "do all three."
。
.
对此，黄励勤自已的说法是，“在经销商给我们的对接时限并不宽裕的情况下，我们在对接大资本的情况下出现了很多的麻烦，我们没有成功把它完全对接出去。
In this regard, Huang Lai-qin himself said, "in the dealer gave us docking time is not generous, we have a lot of capital in the case of a lot of trouble, we have not succeeded in docking it out.
”。
"
在黄励勤就读的学校中，只有他一人加入了“百万口罩”北美援助小组。
Only one of Mr Huang's schools has joined a North American aid group called the Million Mask Mask.
“我还是可能会跟朋友们聊起‘百万口罩’，但我可能不会建议他们做同样的事了。
"I might still talk to my friends about a million masks, but I probably wouldn't advise them to do the same.
” 黄励勤对经济观察网记者说。
Mr Huang told the Economic Watch reporter.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
刘可经济观察报记者。
Liu Ke Economic Observer reporter.
深圳采访部记者。
Shenzhen Media Department.
关注生物医药与冶金矿业行业，新闻线索可联系邮箱：liuke@eeo.com.cn。
For information on the biomedical and metallurgical mining industries, contact the e-mail address: liuke @ eeo.com.cn.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、北美“百万口罩”计划“翻车”记：   。
One, North America "one million mask" program "overturn" record.
2、快讯 | 国家卫健委：新型冠状病毒   。
2. Express & # # 124; National Health Service Commission: New Coronavirus.
3、快讯 | 湖北新冠肺炎新增确诊2987   。
3. New diagnosis of Hubei Xinguan Pneumonia: 2987.
4、新冠肺炎累计治愈病例连续4日超死   。
4. Accumulated cases of new crown pneumonia were cured for 4 consecutive days.
5、快讯 | 宁波男子未戴口罩买菜被感   。
5. Ningbo Men are feeling comfortable buying vegetables without a mask.
6、重庆市抗肺炎物资中途被大理征用    。
6. Chongqing anti-pneumonia supplies mid-way by Dali requisitioned.
7、远离疫中的农村疫情防控：一场安静   。
7. Prevention and Control of Rural Epidemics Away from Epidemics: A Quiet.
8、余昌平：我是怎么从防疫专家变成危   。
Yu Changping: How did I change from a cordon sanitaire expert to a crisis?
9、农发行发行50亿阻击疫情主题金融债   。
9. Issuing 5 billion yuan to stop the epidemic's thematic financial debts.
10、上海市新型冠状病毒诊治方案初步确   。
The diagnosis and treatment of the new coronavirus in Shanghai is preliminary.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
