穿梭在孝感的城市“自救者”： 会害怕，但更想把物资转运到急需的地方 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Shuttle through filial city "self-help": will be afraid, but more want to transfer goods to the much-needed local - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="黄蕾";。
Var auther = & quot; Huang Lei & quot;;
穿梭在孝感的城市“自救者”： 会害怕，但更想把物资转运到急需的地方。
Shuttle in filial city "self-help": will be afraid, but more want to transfer goods to the place in need.
黄蕾2020-02-10 20:54。
Huang Lei 2020-02-10 20: 54.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 黄蕾 孝感报道 2月10日，湖北省孝感市宣布“封城”的第17天，当地确诊病例累计2541例，成为除武汉市之外的湖北疫情重灾区。
Huanglei Filial Feeling Feel Feel Feel Feel Feel Feel Feb. 10, Hubei province Xiaogan City announced the "closure" of the 17 days, a total of 2,541 local confirmed cases, in addition to Wuhan City, Hubei epidemic disaster areas.
。
.
在市民们响应政府号召待在家中的时候，有一批“逆行者”自1月25日既孝感封城的第一天起便持续奔走街头，他们每天早早出门，迟迟而归，穿行于医院、仓库、社区、甚至是市郊菜地，整理、搬运、送达各种急需物资。
As citizens responded to the government's call to stay at home, a group of "backpackers," who had been walking the streets since the first day of filial piety on January 25, left their homes early and arrived late, navigating hospitals, warehouses, communities and even suburban vegetable fields, sorting out, carrying and delivering much-needed supplies.
。
.
这批“逆行者”便是目前同样奋战在孝感防疫一线的志愿者们。
These "Reverse Walkers" are the same volunteers who are now fighting in the field of filial piety prevention.
在突如其来的疫情下，志愿服务更像是城市的自救，是对志愿者身体素质和勇气的双重考验。
In a sudden outbreak, volunteerism is more like urban self-help, a double test of the physical quality and courage of volunteers.
。
.
“当然会害怕，但物资要尽快送出去，才能最快发挥作用。
"It's scary, of course, but it has to be delivered as quickly as possible to make it work.
”组织了一支车队帮忙运送捐赠物资的孝感市孝南区积善之家志愿者协会会长涂雪松如是回应记者关于面临新冠病毒肺炎潜在感染风险的问题。
Tu Cedar, president of the Jianxin Home Volunteer Association in Southern District, who organized a convoy to help deliver the donated goods, responded to questions from journalists about the risk of potential infection with the new crown virus pneumonia.
。
.
作为另一家志愿组织孝感市义工联合会的会长，周文说，在家里和出去做义工同样都是防疫，目的是一样的。
As president of another volunteer organization, Honorary Chow, says volunteering at home and out is the same thing, for the same reason.
病毒无情，人间有爱，只希望做一点民间组织力所能及的事情。
Virus merciless, there is love on earth, just hope to do a little what civil organizations can do.
。
.
起初的困惑：能做什么？。
Initial confusion: What can be done?
“大年初一（1月25日），我们义工联的10名专职工作人员就已经全部到岗了。
"On the first day of New Year (January 25), all 10 full-time workers of our volunteer union have been posted.
刚开始，最大的困惑是我们能够做什么。
At first, the biggest confusion was what we could do.
”周文回忆说。
"Zhou Wen recalled.
2008年开始志愿服务，2016年成为专职公益人，他觉得这次和此前参与和组织的联合救灾或公益服务项目都不同。
He began volunteering in 2008 and became a full-time pro bono in 2016, feeling different from the joint disaster relief or public service projects he had been involved in and organized before.
。
.
“以往的志愿活动，是有时间有准备有计划安排的，人越多越好，通常还有其他城市的志愿者参与，只要保证通行安全，基本上不会有问题。
"In the past, there was time, preparation and planning for volunteering. The more people, the better, and usually volunteers from other cities, so long as it was safe to go, there was little problem.
现在不一样，疫情比较复杂，传染性也很强，封城条件下，人员流通有限制，志愿服务更像是城市自救，还要担心志愿者的身体状况。
Unlike today, where the epidemic is complex and contagious, there are restrictions on the movement of people under siege conditions, volunteering is more like urban self-help and concerns about the health of volunteers.
”周文说。
"said Zhou.
。
.
鲁锋的思考则源于一份“3000块钱的托付”，其是孝感市孝南区首家社工组织——孝南区益邦社会工作服务中心创办人之一，自2000年参加无偿献血起，已经参与大大小小众多的公益活动。
Lu Feng's thought came from a "3,000-yuan trust," one of the founders of the Yibang Social Work Service Center in Xiaogan District, the first social work organization in Xiaoyan City. He has been involved in many public welfare activities, large and small, since he joined the Blood Donation Service Center in 2000.
1月23日，在得知新冠病毒肺炎疫情后，鲁锋早先认识的一位上海的朋友给他转了3000块钱。
On January 23, after learning of the outbreak of the New Crown Virus pneumonia, Lu Feng earlier knew a friend in Shanghai gave him a transfer of 3000 yuan.
“我当时就想着，这3000元钱要怎么用到实处，看着医护人员在一线奋战，总不能包几个红包给医生发钱吧。
"I was thinking, how to use the 3000 yuan in practice, watching the medical staff in the front-line battle, can not package a few red packets to the doctor to send money.
”鲁锋有着同样的困惑。
Lu Feng was equally confused.
。
.
行动不约而同。
The actions coincide.
很快的，周文所在的义工联组织决定从最基本最急迫的做起，那就是保障医护人员的防疫物资。
Soon, Zhou Wenwen's organization decided to start with the most basic and urgent, that is to safeguard the health care workers epidemic prevention materials.
作为壹基金湖北省省级协调机构，在基金会的支持下，义工联1月25日便赶赴仙桃采购了第一批共计11万只的医用外科口罩和N95口罩。
As a provincial coordinating agency in Hubei Province, with the support of the Foundation, the ICFTU went to the peach market on 25 January to purchase the first batch of 110,000 medical surgical masks and N95 masks.
。
.
孝感市南方国际建材市场为义工联提供了一个8000平的仓库，现在每天都有基金会采购和其他机构捐赠的价值数十万元的物资运抵这个仓库，然后陆续转运给包括孝感在内的省内其他地区急需的医院。
The International Building Materials Market in the South of Xiaogan City provides a warehouse of 8,000 square meters for the ICFTU, and hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of supplies donated by the Foundation and other agencies are now delivered to the warehouse every day and then transferred to hospitals in other areas of the province that are in urgent need, including filial piety.
装卸物资需要招募义工，孝感义工联微信交流群每天都不断有人加入，要求参与志愿活动，截至目前已超200人。
Loading and unloading supplies requires volunteers, and the UITP Message Exchange Group is constantly being joined every day, with more than 200 volunteers so far.
。
.
义工联义工在仓库搬运物资。
UFTU volunteers carry supplies in the warehouse.
鲁锋也在医护人员急缺口罩的报道中受到启发，带着上述朋友转来的3000块钱，于1月25日中午奔赴仙桃买口罩。
Lu Feng, inspired by reports of a medical emergency gap, went to the peach plant on January 25 at noon with $3,000 from the above-mentioned friend to buy a mask.
“现在想想有遗憾，当时钱不多，车子没有装满。
"Now think of it with regret. There wasn't much money and the car wasn't full.
”此后他多次前往仙桃采购医疗防护物资。
He has since gone to the peaches several times to purchase medical supplies.
。
.
2015年开始参与志愿活动的涂雪松因为有运输车，便想到了帮助爱心企业和个人运送捐赠的医疗防护及生活用品等物资，从1月24日开始，志愿者每天早上八点半集合，到达需要运输的物资地点装车，并送到指定地方。
The Cedar Pine, which began volunteering in 2015, thought of transportation vehicles to help caring businesses and individuals deliver donated medical protection and household goods. Starting on January 24, volunteers gather at 8: 30 a.m. each morning to load cars at the material sites where they need to be transported and take them to designated places.
。
.
涂雪松（左一）和志愿者一起搬运物资。
Apply cedar (first left) and volunteer to carry supplies.
截至目前，鲁锋已为孝感市80个社区分别送去了300个口罩和两套防护服，基本覆盖主城区及近郊社区。
So far, Lu Feng has sent 300 face masks and two sets of protective clothing to 80 communities in Xiaogan City, basically covering the main urban and suburban communities.
同时，还想为更多的社区卫生服务中心和乡镇卫生院送去防护用品。
At the same time, more community health service centres and township hospitals will be provided with protective materials.
下一阶段，他准备转入协助被隔离社区消毒和防疫工作，帮助社区孤寡老人、居家观察市民等代购生活物资，补充社区工作力量的不足。
In the next phase, he intends to turn to assistance in disinfection and vaccination of isolated communities, help the community to buy supplies for the elderly, home observation, etc., to supplement the community work force.
。
.
周文表示，他们接下来的工作重点还是协助捐赠方给一线医疗单位、政府工作人员、社区工作人员转运物资。
Zhou said their next priority would be to help donors transfer supplies to front-line medical units, government staff and community workers.
。
.
目前的需求：最缺什么？。
Current needs: what are the most missing?
当问到目前孝感最缺什么物资时，上述志愿组织的负责人不约而同地提到防疫一线的医护人员、社区等基层工作人员紧缺防护物资。
When asked about the most lacking of filial piety, the leaders of the above-mentioned voluntary organizations also mentioned the shortage of protective materials for medical personnel and community workers at the grass-roots level.
。
.
“现在地市级医院普遍缺的还是专业级防护装备，比如口罩、防护服、护目镜、手套等，还有就是社区紧缺消毒杀菌用品，比如84消毒液、酒精等。
"There is a general shortage of professional-level protective equipment, such as face masks, protective clothing, goggles, gloves, and community-wide shortage of sterilization supplies such as disinfectant 84, alcohol, etc.
”周文说。
"said Zhou.
。
.
鲁锋因为曾经在社区工作过三年，深知社区工作不易，“目前社区工作人员和乡镇卫生院防护物资也是非常缺乏的。
Lu Feng, who has worked in the community for three years, knows that it is not easy to work in the community.
有的社区常驻居民接近两万人，社区干部加上网格员不到20个人，较小的社区都有4000多人。
Some communities have close to 20,000 permanent residents, less than 20 community leaders and grid workers, and more than 4,000 in smaller communities.
”。
"
涂雪松说，目前医疗单位缺少比如医用口罩、消毒酒精、乳胶手套、防护服、防护面罩等防护物资，基本上消耗品医疗物资都缺，生活物资上较为缺少新鲜蔬菜。
There is a shortage of protective equipment such as medical masks, disinfectant alcohol, latex gloves, protective clothing and face protection. Basically, consumables are lacking and fresh vegetables are scarce, Tu said.
他经常收到医护人员的医疗物资求助，有一线医护人员没有完整的防护装备，戴着口罩就上了一线，由于医疗物资紧缺，经常有医护人员一套防护服穿几天甚至破了也舍不得扔掉。
He often receives medical help from medical staff, some of whom do not have complete protective equipment and wear face masks. Because of the shortage of medical supplies, medical personnel often wear a suit of protective clothing for a few days or even to throw it away.
。
.
实际上，志愿者团队同样缺乏防疫物资。
In fact, volunteer teams also lack immunization supplies.
鲁锋往返医院运送物资，前段时间只有一次性医用口罩，这两天才多增了一个薄薄的红色隔离帽。
Lu Feng to and from the hospital to transport supplies, some time ago only disposable medical masks, these two days only added a thin red isolation hat.
涂雪松所在的志愿者团队每日往返于福利院、儿童福利院、区防疫指挥部、各医院、区政府、区公安局等单位，前几天他自己找了隔离服，这两天已用尽，口罩也剩余不多。
The volunteer team where Cedar Tu worked was commuting daily to and from welfare homes, children's welfare homes, district epidemic prevention headquarters, hospitals, district governments and district public security bureaus.
“我们出去也没有什么防护措施，我们也缺，但现在医疗战线更缺，我们就没有向组织提要求，我们还能坚持。
"We went out without protection, we lacked, but now that the medical front was even more inadequate, we did not ask the organization, and we were able to insist.
”涂雪松说。
"said Tu Cedar.
。
.
据记者了解，疫情下，时不时就有志愿者今天刚参加完志愿服务，明天就因为所在的小区有疑似或者确诊病例封闭管理，无法出来参与志愿活动。
According to the reporter, under the epidemic situation, from time to time volunteers have just participated in the voluntary service, tomorrow because the community where the suspected or confirmed cases are closed management, can not participate in voluntary activities.
此外，在全城交通管制、人员流动有所限制的情况下，志愿者也面临出行和归家问题。
In addition, while traffic control and mobility are limited throughout the city, volunteers also face travel and home issues.
。
.
有志愿者表示，特殊时期，常有志愿者出来参加完一天的志愿服务，返家时小区或者村子不让进入，“挺尴尬的，也不知道怎么解决。
Volunteers said that during special periods, often volunteers come out to take part in a day of volunteer service, when they return home the small community or village is not allowed to enter, "very awkward, do not know how to solve.
”。
"
一位不愿具名的志愿组织负责人表示，之前主要做了上街免费发放口罩，劝导不带口罩的人群等相关工作，后来帮助协调采购了一批口罩，防护服等物资，捐给了部分医院。
The head of a volunteer group, who declined to be named, said he helped coordinate the purchase of masks and protective clothing for some hospitals after doing free masks on the street and advising people not to wear them.
“作为负责人其实我内心比较纠结，想多做点但是又怕其他志愿者感染，所以心有余而力不足，总觉得有力没有用完。
"As a person in charge of my heart is actually more tangled, want to do more but afraid of other volunteers infected, so the heart is willing but not enough, always feel strong unused.
”前几日，因为有身边朋友发烧，该名负责人便停止了志愿服务，居家隔离。
A few days ago, the person in charge stopped volunteering because a friend had a fever and was kept in isolation.
。
.
“每个人都应该是个战士“。
"Everyone should be a fighter."
涂雪松说，因为目前都是接到运输请求就出发，很多都是突然来，有时候前一个运输任务还在途中，就接到另外一个需要帮助的任务。
Tu said that because of the current transport requests on the departure, many are sudden, sometimes the previous transport task on the way to receive another need for assistance.
刚开始每天到处跑基本上没吃饭也没地方吃，就吃点饼干零食填一下肚子，遇到有开水的地方就泡一碗方便面。
At the beginning of the day to run around basically no food or place to eat, eat biscuits and snacks to fill up their stomachs, where there is boiling water on a bowl of instant noodles.
前几天开始，区防疫指挥部让志愿者到他们食堂吃，情况才得到缓解。
The situation was alleviated the other day when the district anti-epidemic command sent volunteers to their canteen to eat.
。
.
让他印象深刻的是，志愿者协会有一位18岁的小志愿者（女孩），之前在美国纽约留学，由于疫情严重飞机停飞走不了，主动加入到志愿服务活动中来。
He was impressed by the fact that AVSI had an 18-year-old volunteer (a girl) who had been studying in New York, United States of America, and had volunteered because of the severe flight outage.
由于特殊时期没有买吃的，每天饿着肚子跟着涂雪松到处送物资直到晚上回去才吃点饭。
Since there was no food to buy at special times, I followed the cedar everywhere with my hunger every day until I went home for dinner.
。
.
鲁锋前两天去孝感市第一人民医院送物资，遇到了湖南长沙蓝天救援队的成员在那里调试喷洒消毒设备，和他们攀谈过程中发现，其中一位成员曾和他一样，2016年水灾时在荆门屈家岭援助。
Lu Feng two days ago to Xiaoyan City the first people's hospital to deliver supplies, encountered Hunan Changsha blue sky rescue team there debugging spray disinfection equipment, and their conversation with them found that one of his members, like him, in the 2016 floods in Jingmen Qu Jialing assistance.
“没有想到这次因为抗击疫情在孝感重逢，不过没有他乡遇故知的喜悦，只有彼此默默的鼓励与祝福。
"I did not think of the fight against the epidemic in filial piety reunion, but there was no joy, only mutual silent encouragement and blessing.
”鲁锋表示。
Lu said.
。
.
鲁锋（右）遇到驰援孝感的长沙蓝天救援队。
Lu Feng (right) meets the Changsha blue sky rescue team.
周文从1月25日开始，几乎每天都睡在办公室里，很多时候他只能睡两三个小时。
Zhou Wenwen has been sleeping in his office almost every day since January 25, often just two or three hours of sleep.
目前，周文在汇总省内各地公益组织的医疗物资需求，制定发放计划，确保物质供给一线的发热门诊和隔离医院。
At present, Zhou Wenwen summarizes the medical material needs of public welfare organizations throughout the province, formulates distribution plans, ensures the first-line supply of heat clinics and isolates hospitals.
周文直言这是一项挑战，比如前几天，他这边就收到了湖北周边地市共计8万多份的核酸检测试剂需求，还有近期要确保刚刚到达的100万只一次性医用丁腈手套能够如期分批发放。
Zhou said it was a challenge, saying he had received more than 80,000 nucleic acid reagents from Hubei's neighboring cities the other day, and that he needed to ensure that the one million disposable medical butyronitrile gloves that had just arrived would be delivered in batches as scheduled.
。
.
鲁锋每天出门时，母亲都会叮嘱他保护好自己，说他是家里的英雄，“会给我煮一大碗饺子，让我多吃点，这样才有抵抗力。
When Lu Feng left home every day, his mother would tell him to protect himself, said he was a hero, "I will boil a bowl of dumplings, let me eat more, so that resistance.
”涂雪松家里有两个孩子，一个才5个多月大。
Tooting Cedar had two children, one more than five months old.
1月24日至今，他每天都要忙到下午六点左右，其中有几天运送物资到次日凌晨两三点结束。
From 24 January to the present, he has been busy until around 6 p.m., including several days when supplies end at 2 or 3 a.m. the following day.
“家里没有帮忙照顾到，觉得愧对家人。
"I feel ashamed of my family for not helping me.
”。
"
虽然辛苦，不过他们都表示和一线医护人员相比不算什么，只想物资能够以最快的速度发放，转赠给急需的医院。
Hard as they are, they say they are nothing compared to front-line medical staff, who want supplies to be delivered as quickly as possible to hospitals in desperate need.
。
.
“这次防疫，只能靠我们自己了。
"The epidemic prevention is up to us.
”鲁锋如是感慨，说不害怕是不可能的，但是他觉得在家乡危难关头，每一个人都应该是一个战士。
Lu Feng said it was impossible not to be afraid, but he felt that in his hometown crisis, everyone should be a fighter.
。
.
新闻线索故事征集：欢迎包括孝感在内的湖北地区人民、医护人员联系经济观察报记者黄蕾（电话：15611686065）说出你们的故事和物资需求，一同抗击新冠肺炎！。
Hubei people, including filial piety, are welcome to contact the Economic Observer reporter Huang Lei (Tel: 1561 1668 6065) to tell your story and material needs and fight the New Crown Pneumonia!
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
黄蕾经济观察报记者。
Huanglei Economic Observer reporter.
金融机构新闻部记者。
Ministry of Information, Financial Institutions
主要关注银行、上市公司、证券领域。
Mainly concerned with banks, listed companies, securities sector.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、穿梭在孝感的城市“自救者”： 会   。
1. Shuttle in filial piety of the city "self-help": Yes.
2、医药板块连续回调 近30只个股跌停    。
2, medicine plate callback nearly 30 stock limit.
3、股指期货盘中意外触摸涨停板 空头   。
3, stock index futures trading unexpectedly touch short trading board.
4、2月10日建筑工地复工日 一些项目开   。
4, February 10 Construction site resumption day a number of projects.
5、非常时期催生新共享经济模式，“共   。
5. Emergence of a new shared economic model, "Common."
6、防控疫情工作不力 呼和浩特市卫健   。
Prevention and control of the epidemic weak health city of Hohhot.
7、2019年全国一般公共预算收入19万亿   。
7. National general public budget revenue of 19 trillion yuan in 2019.
8、疫情中复工潮来临，企业微信后台办   。
8, the outbreak of the return to work tide, after the enterprise micro-letter to do.
9、新潮传媒复工首日裁员500人：账上   。
9, trendy media resume work on the first day of layoffs 500 people: account.
10、大输液市场告急 全国最大无水葡萄   。
Large infusion market crisis in the country's largest anhydrous grapes.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
