一位武汉重症家属的困境：父亲从隔离点去方舱医院，又被拉回隔离点 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
The plight of a critically ill family member in Wuhan: his father went from the quarantine point to the cabin hospital and was taken back to the quarantined site - the Economic Watch - Professional Financial News website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="高歌";。
Var auther = & quot; Gao & quot;;
一位武汉重症家属的困境：父亲从隔离点去方舱医院，又被拉回隔离点。
The plight of a seriously ill family member in Wuhan: his father went from the quarantine point to the cabin hospital and was taken back to the quarantine point.
高歌2020-02-10 21:52。
Gao Song 2020-02-10 21: 52.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网记者高歌在过去的24小时里，陈赟经历了从社区隔离点拉去方舱医院，又因血氧量低不予接收，原路而返的周折。
In the past 24 hours, Chen Kai-yun has gone from a community quarantine point to a cabin hospital and refused to accept the original route because of low blood oxygen.
。
.
“我的东西都被踩烂了，被子都丢了，没有力气搬了，”今年55岁的武汉市民陈赟核酸检测结果为阳性，2月9日下午5时他从所在的隔离点上了一台救护车，去往武汉一家“方舱医院”。
"Everything was crushed, my quilt was lost and I had no strength to move," said Wang Chen-yun, 55, who tested positive for nucleic acid at Wuhan's Min Chen Kai-yun on February 9.
。
.
“救护车像公交车一样，一路拉人，一路下人”，串联各隔离点的确诊病患，最终同车的十几号人中的大部分人都被收治，仅有陈赟和另一位患者是例外。
"Ambulances are like buses pulling people down the road." Most of the dozens of people who eventually joined the group were treated, with the exception of Chen Kai-yun and another patient.
。
.
经过5个小时的等待，陈赟因为被测出血氧值低，属于重症并未被方舱医院收治，从隔离点派出的救护车司机由于没有收到来自任何一方的指示，原路返回。
After a five-hour wait, Chen Kai-yun, who was found to be of low blood oxygen value, was not admitted to the cabin hospital, and the ambulance driver from the quarantine point returned by the same route without receiving instructions from either side.
丢了被子的陈赟找了东西凑合盖了一宿。
Chen Kai-yun, who had lost his quilt, found something to cover the night.
他跟家人电话说：“还不如不折腾了。
He called his family and said, "It's better not to mess.
”。
"
隔离点并不具有医疗属性，仅能起到区隔筛选的作用。
The isolation point does not have the medical attribute, can only play the role of the partition screen.
正常情况下，隔离点经核酸检测为阳性的确诊病例，应该按照轻症患者送往方舱医院、重症送往定点医院接受相应的治疗的路径。
In normal circumstances, confirmed cases of positive nucleic acid test at isolation points should be sent to the Fangzhou Hospital according to the patients with mild cases, and the severe cases should be sent to designated hospitals for appropriate treatment.
。
.
根据国家卫健委2月4日发布的消息，从3日开始在全国23家地方方舱医院当中调集20家方舱医院及3个移动P3实验室支援武汉收治观察病例和轻症疑似病例的诊疗检测工作。
Since February 3, 20 cabin hospitals and three mobile P3 laboratories have been set up in 23 local cabins nationwide to support the diagnosis and treatment of suspected cases and cases.
另据《湖北日报》消息，截至2月5日，武汉市已经改造完成和正在改造的“方舱医院”包括洪山体育馆、武汉客厅、武汉国际会展中心等13处。
According to the Hubei Daily, as of February 5, the "Fang Cao Hospital" in Wuhan, which has already been renovated and is under renovation, includes 13 other places, including Hongshan Stadium, Wuhan Sitting Room and Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center.
。
.
按照武汉市防疫指挥部部署，武汉正集中落实“四类人员”分类集中管理措施，方舱医院的定位则是，主要收治轻症患者与65岁以下的病人，将更优质的医疗资源留给重症患者、身体较弱的老年人，优质的医疗资源是指31家定点医院。
According to the plan of Wuhan city epidemic prevention command, Wuhan is focusing on the centralized management measures for the classification of "four categories of personnel." The orientation of the Fang Hospital is to treat light patients and patients under 65 years of age, leaving better medical resources for the seriously ill and the frail elderly, and quality medical care means 31 designated hospitals.
。
.
陈赟的遭遇令家属忧心、困惑： “我们能够理解方舱医院只收治轻症患者，但因为是重症患者随时都有生命危险，方舱医院无法收治而返回隔离点，这正常吗？”。
Chen Kai's treatment worried and confused his family: "We can understand that only patients with mild illness are admitted to the cabin hospital, but because the patients are in serious condition at any moment, the hospital can not accept treatment and return to the quarantine point?
2月9日晚，在隔离点工作者帮助之下，陈赟的家属给他送进去了一罐氧气。
On the night of February 9, with the help of workers at the quarantine point, Chen Kai's family brought him in a can of oxygen.
在被原路送返的24小时里，除了不断地联系社区、联系指挥部、联系媒体，陈赟和他的家人什么都做不了，只能在焦急中等待被救治。
During the 24 hours he was sent back by the original route, Chen Kai-yun and his family were left with nothing to do but to wait anxiously for treatment, in addition to constant contact with the community, the headquarters and the media.
。
.
而根据武汉市卫健委2月10日早间公布的“全市定点医院病床使用情况（2020年2月9日）”，31家定点医院共开放床位10300张，已占用床位10087张，剩余床位378张。
According to Wuhan Health Commission announced on February 10 morning "the use of hospital beds in the city (9 February 2020)," a total of 31 designated hospitals opened a total of 10,300 beds, 10,087 beds, 378 beds left.
。
.
从家到社区隔离点。
Isolation from home to community.
陈赟在1月28日开始发烧，至今已有14天，目前血氧值低，呼吸困难，浑身乏力不能进食，随时都可能有生命危险。
Chen Kai-yun has had a fever since January 28 and has been suffering from hypoxemia, shortness of breath, fatigue and inability to eat. His life could be in danger at any time.
。
.
陈赟的儿子陈正维告诉记者，出现发烧咳嗽症状之后，陈赟就开始了自我隔离，陈正维作为密切接触者，也进行了隔离，但由于陈正维没有任何症状，因此他负责给父亲送饭、送药，后续去医院就诊，也是由他一路陪同。
Chen Kai-yun's son Chen Zhengwei told reporters that Chen Kai-yun began to isolate himself after he developed fever and cough symptoms. Chen was also quarantined as a close contact, but since Chen didn't have any symptoms, he was responsible for delivering food and medicine to his father and then going to the hospital with him.
。
.
服用了几天拜复乐和达菲的陈赟并未出现明显的好转，发热症状反反复复。
Chen Kai-yun, who had been taking bifurcation and Tamiflu for a few days, did not see a marked improvement.
2月1日，在陈正维的陪同下，陈赟去了武汉一家三甲医院做了CT检查。
On February 1, accompanied by Chen Zhengwei, Chen Kai-yun went to a hospital in Wuhan for a CT examination.
检查报告显示，双肺感染，医生建议他回家隔离观察：“我们医院没有核酸试剂盒，确诊不了，可以去定点发热门诊，你们自己想办法。
Examination report showed that two lung infections, the doctor advised him to go home to observe isolation: "Our hospital does not have nucleic acid test kits, can not be diagnosed, can go to fixed-point fever clinic, you find your own way.
”。
"
陈正维告诉记者，考虑到父亲当时的情况不好，他选择先送父亲回家休息，自己去了一家定点发热门诊查看情况：“当时排队的人很多，我觉得就算我父亲没感染（新冠肺炎），过去了也难保不会交叉感染。
Chen told reporters that considering his father's bad situation, he chose to send his father home for a rest, went to a sentinel fever clinic to check the situation: "There were so many people in the queue that I thought it would be difficult to avoid cross-infection even if my father didn't get infected.
”于是陈正维一家选择继续居家隔离观察。
So the Chen family chose to stay home and watch.
。
.
2月3日，一颗心悬而未定的陈正维一家辗转联系到了一家医院的核酸检测资源，几天后收到的结果为阴性，居家隔离仍是唯一的解决方案。
On February 3, a hanging family contacted a hospital for nucleic acid testing resources, only to receive negative results a few days later. Home isolation remains the only solution.
但陈赟病情仍未好转，反倒“越来越虚弱”。
But Chen Kai-yun is still not better, but "increasingly weak."
而回溯从核酸检测到拿到结果这几天的经历，陈正维觉得确诊流程很长，过程复杂且不明确。
Retrospective from nucleic acid detection to the results of the past few days, Chen Zhengwei felt that the diagnosis process is long, complicated and unclear.
。
.
“这个时候我们开始觉得光吃药不是办法，哪怕住院打针呢？”于是陈正维系了他们所在的社区，2月7日晚上，陈赟到社区隔离点隔离。
"At this point we start to feel that taking medicine alone is not the solution, even if the patient is hospitalized?" Chen Zheng tied up their community and went to the community isolation point on the night of February 7.
2月10日，陈赟在这家隔离点所做的核酸检测结果为阳性，由于陈赟有糖尿病等基础疾病，又一直未退烧，一度情况危急，“必须向上级医院送诊”。
Chen Kai-yun tested positive for nucleic acid at the quarantine site on February 10. Chen Kai-yun was in a critical condition after suffering from basic diseases such as diabetes mellitus.
。
.
“血氧值低，情况危急，生命有危险，不予收治，建议往一级医院送治。
"Low blood oxygen value, critical condition, life in danger, do not accept treatment, recommended to the level I hospital.
”这是2月9日晚十点左右，陈赟收到的方舱医院的意见。
"This is February 9 around 10 pm, Chen Kai-yun received the views of the cabin hospital.
。
.
送往方舱医院却原路而返。
He was taken to the Fang Causeway Hospital.
选择去隔离点在陈赟一家看来原本是一个转机。
The choice to go to the quarantine site seems like a turnaround for the Chen family.
。
.
陈正维说：“我们当时听说隔离点是有医生的，原本应该由社区的医护车接送病人去隔离点，但当时社区资源不足，没有这个能力，是我开车把父亲送过去的。
"We heard there was a doctor at the quarantine point and it was supposed to be a community ambulance to take the patient to the quarantine point, but I didn't have the resources to do that and I drove him over," Chen said.
”。
"
但之后发生的事情使他们意识到隔离点能够起到的作用是筛选区隔，相关的医疗资源并未匹配。
But then what happened made them realize that the isolation point could play a role in screening the area, and that the relevant medical resources did not match.
“和在家里隔离一个样，不过会有人按点送饭，询问体温。
"It's like being isolated at home, but someone will give you a meal by the hour and ask for your temperature.
”。
"
唯一不同的是这里可以很快做核酸检测，也是因为这一次的检测结果为阳性，才有前述陈赟被拉去方舱医院的一趟经历。
The only difference is that nucleic acid testing can be done quickly here, and because of the positive test results this time, Chen Kai-yun was pulled to the cabin hospital as mentioned above.
。
.
陈正维告诉记者，从2月7日父亲进入隔离点之后，家里人就没有再见过他。
Chen told reporters his family had not seen him since February 7, when his father went into quarantine.
这几天陈赟所服用的药物是之前家里联系社区医生开的。
Chen Kai's medication these days was prescribed by a community doctor contacted at home.
“那个医生很耐心，把每一个疗程给他说好，我们再想办法把药送进去。
"The doctor is patient and says yes to every course, and we'll try to get the medicine in.
”。
"
有关2月9日晚的具体情况，陈正维全程是听父亲转述的。
On the night of February 9, Chen Zhengwei listened to his father's story.
。
.
当天下午5点半，有医生通知陈赟收拾东西上救护车，但并未说要送去哪里。
At 5: 30 p.m. Chen Kai-yun was told to pack and get into the ambulance, but did not say where he was going.
“我们接到电话都蒙了。
"We got all the phone calls.
”陈正维说，救护车从隔离点开到方舱医院大约用了一个小时，在方舱医院等待检测花了3个小时，收到无法收治信息后，救护车不知道该往哪里送，于是叮嘱陈赟和另外一名重症患者上车等着，没过一会就“哪儿来的回哪儿去”了。
Chen Zhengwei said it took about an hour for an ambulance to drive from the quarantine point to the cabin hospital, three hours to wait for the test at the cabin hospital, and the ambulance didn't know where to send the untreated information, so he ordered Chen Kai-yun and another seriously ill patient to board and wait.
。
.
陈赟所在的隔离点的工作人员告诉记者：“隔离点一没有药，二没有针。
Chen Kai-yun's staff at the quarantine point told reporters: "There is no medicine in the quarantine point, two needles.
对于病情比较重的情况，我们除了密切关注，什么都做不了。
In more serious cases, we can do nothing but pay close attention.
”隔离点属于社区的管辖范畴，并不具备医疗救治的能力。
Isolation points fall within the jurisdiction of the community and do not have the capacity for medical treatment.
。
.
据他反映，陈赟并非孤例，此前也出现过年纪大的患者从隔离点送出去，但医院不收又返回的隔离点的情况。
Chen Kai-yun was not alone, he said. There had been cases of elderly patients being sent out of quarantine but hospitals did not accept back-to-back quarantine points.
这位工作人员告诉记者：“我们也有心无力，我跟他们说，我只是一个工作人员，能帮你们的我尽力，帮不到的你们也别怪我，我能力也就这么大。
"We also have a weak heart, I told them, I am just a staff member, I can help you I try my best, you can not help me do not blame me, I am so capable.
”。
"
接下来该去哪儿？。
Where should I go next?
“现在的实际问题是必须得往上送，只要是核算检测结果为阳性，我们社区就派车往上送，但往上送就得排队，哪怕打市长热线也是一样的。
"The real problem is that we have to go up and send cars up as long as the results are positive, but we have to wait in line to get up, even on the mayor's hotline.
”上述工作人员称，正常的流程是，隔离点的疑似病例会在1～2日内被安排进行核酸检测，确定阳性之后，隔离点派车送往方舱医院。
The staff said the normal procedure was for suspected cases at the quarantine site to be tested for nucleic acids within one to two days, and that once positive results were confirmed, the quarantine site would send vehicles to the Fang Hospital.
“如果方舱医院不收，其实跟隔离点就没有什么瓜葛了。
"If the cabin hospital doesn't take it, there's nothing to do with the quarantine.
”。
"
他进一步表示：“陈先生的这种情况已经确定不宜在隔离点继续待下去，应该去医院治疗，他在这里也是一个隐患，我们已经把他的情况上报了，”有关被方舱医院退回的事情，这位工作人员说，他得到的反馈是，陈赟应该联系上面的指挥部，但他不知道“上面的指挥部，到底是哪里？我们比他更着急”。
He further said: "Mr. Chen's condition has determined that it is not appropriate to stay in quarantine and should be treated in a hospital. He is also a danger here and we have reported him," he said.
。
.
从大年初六被派至这个街道工作至今，这位工作人员说他的电话每天响个不停，有时候凌晨都要从临时住的酒店赶过来。
Since being sent to work on the street on Saturday, the official said his phone rang day after day, sometimes from a makeshift hotel in the early morning.
我做这个工作不抱怨，有时候忙起来了，急起来了，不一样，但我平时说话也不这样。
I don't complain about doing this job. Sometimes I get busy and hurry up. It's different, but I don't usually talk that way.
“我希望不要被投诉，不要站着说话不腰疼。
"I hope not to be sued or to stand and speak without a waist ache.
”。
"
隔离点不是医疗机构，方舱医院可以理解为是简易的医疗机构，他认为，遇到陈赟这样的情况，应该是一级级往上报，作为重症患者不应被从轻症患者中间被筛选出来，再送回最初级的隔离点。
The quarantine point was not a medical institution, and the square-cabin hospital could be interpreted as a simple medical facility. In Chen Kai's case, it should be reported to the first class. As a serious patient, they should not be screened out of the light cases and returned to the most rudimentary isolation points.
“我就是一个联络员，药或者氧气，哪怕我自掏掏包都行，但是医院我联系不到。
"I'm a liaison, a drug or oxygen, even if I pay for it myself, but I can't reach the hospital.
”。
"
从2月9号晚开始，陈正维已经向他所在的社区、街道、区拨打电话反映他们一家所遇到的现实困境，一位街道工作人员给他的回复是，情况已上报，但仍需排队等上级单位的安排。
Since the evening of February 9, Chen has called his community, streets and districts to report the family's real predicament, and a street worker has responded that the situation has been reported but he still has to wait in line for a superior arrangement.
。
.
回溯父亲的患病原因，陈正维告诉记者，完全不清楚。
Looking back at the cause of his father's illness, Chen told reporters it was completely unclear.
他们所在的区域属于中心城区，大学众多。
They live in a central city with a large number of universities.
“从12月开始，我们的意识比较强，一直戴口罩，但官方口径都是未见人传人，甚至到武汉封城，很多老一辈的人还是不警觉，出门也不戴口罩。
"Since December, we have been conscious of wearing masks, but official voices have not been passed from person to person, even to Wuhan, many of the elderly people are still not alert, not wearing masks outside.
”。
"
而向外界发出寻求救助的信息对于陈正维的家庭而言相当于把重要的隐私袒露出来，陈正维说他的长辈还是有顾虑的，但他仍希望将过去24小时经历通过匿名的方式发布出来的原因在于，希望能为其他具有相似困境的家庭提供借鉴。
Chen's family still has concerns, but he hopes the anonymity of the past 24 hours will help other families with similar difficulties.
“已知的重症患者是否还要从隔离点送去方舱医院，而方舱医院不能收治下一步的治疗安排是否能够更加明确？”。
"Is it possible that patients who are known to be in serious condition will be taken from the isolation point to the Fang Causeway Hospital, and whether the next steps in the treatment arrangements will be clearer?"
（应受访者要求：陈赟、陈正维为化名）。
(At the request of respondents: Chen Kai-yun, Chen Zhengwei alias).
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
高歌经济观察报记者。
Gao Song Economic Observer reporter.
财税与环保新闻部记者。
Reporter, Ministry of Finance and Environmental Protection.
长期关注能源、工业相关话题，线索请联系：gaoge@eeo.com.cn。
Long-term focus on energy, industry related topics, contact: gaoge @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、一位武汉重症家属的困境：父亲从隔   。
The plight of a seriously ill family member in Wuhan: his father is separated from him.
2、称停产一日损失4亿元 北京奔驰紧急   。
2, said the production production loss of 400 million yuan a day Beijing Mercedes-Benz emergency.
3、孤岛中的快递员：有人在汉口站网点   。
A courier from an isolated island: Someone is at the Hankou Station.
4、受疫情冲击 北京5G基站暂无法施工   。
The construction of Beijing 5G base station will be suspended due to the epidemic.
5、疫情防控专项债首批试点落地，首单   。
5, the disease prevention and control special debt first pilot landing.
6、穿梭在孝感的城市“自救者”： 会   。
6. Shuttle in filial piety of the city "self-help": Yes.
7、医药板块连续回调 近30只个股跌停    。
7, medicine plate callback nearly 30 stock limit.
8、股指期货盘中意外触摸涨停板 空头   。
8, stock index futures trading unexpectedly touch short trading board.
9、2月10日建筑工地复工日 一些项目开   。
9, February 10 Construction site resumption day a number of projects.
10、非常时期催生新共享经济模式，“共   。
10. Emergence of a new shared economic model, "Communism.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
