武汉防疫：如何利用好现有资源？。
Wuhan epidemic prevention: how to make good use of existing resources?
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
截至1月28日，国家卫健委称，已向湖北派出近6000人的医疗队，支援湖北的疫情防治工作。
As of January 28, the National Fitness and Health Commission said it had sent nearly 6,000 medical teams to Hubei province to help prevent and treat the disease.
全国各地医护人员和物资救济，正在缓慢改变武汉的应对现状。
Medical personnel and material relief across the country are slowly changing Wuhan's response.
武汉也在不断总结和调整应对举措。
Wuhan is also constantly summing up and adjusting the response.
随着各地输入病例不断增多，武汉防疫中的操作经验与教训，或许可以成为其它地区的借鉴。
With the increasing number of imported cases, Wuhan epidemic prevention in the operation of experience and lessons, may become a reference for other regions.
在上海市公共卫生临床咨询专家缪晓辉看来，武汉新建医院扩充场地固然重要，但如何调配好现有资源，快速应对，其实更加重要。
In the opinion of Shanghai public health clinical consultant Miao Xiaohui, Wuhan new hospital expansion site is important, but how to deploy existing resources, rapid response, in fact more important.
记者 | 王海燕 王珊各级医院的难题▲▲▲1月24日中午，武汉市新冠肺炎防控指挥部发布公告，对新冠肺炎实行分级诊疗，发热病人将由社区送往社区医疗中心，筛查分类，再往上级医院输送。
At noon on January 24, Wuhan's Xinguan Pneumonia Control and Prevention Command issued a notice classifying new crown pneumonia. Fever patients will be taken to community health centres, screened and classified, and transported to a higher hospital.
但对一些病人来说，问题变得更棘手了。
But for some patients, the problem has become more intractable.
徐彩家住武汉市江岸区塔子湖街道君安社区，她的公公、婆婆、丈夫分别在1月10号和15号开始发热，后来一直在医院打针，排号拍CT，全都显示双肺感染，且排除甲流、乙流和其它肺炎，但无法确诊新冠肺炎。
Her father-in-law, mother-in-law and husband began febrile on January 10 and January 15, respectively, and have been giving injections and arranging CT scans in hospitals, all of which showed two-lung infections and ruled out A, B and other pneumonia, but couldn't confirm the new crown pneumonia.
1月23日，武汉封城，市内公共交通停止运行，徐彩家没有车，病人开始走路往返医院。
On January 23, Wuhan closed the city's public transport operation, Xu Caijia did not have a car, patients began to walk to and from the hospital.
因为已经出现呼吸带喘，2公里的路，徐彩的公公婆婆要走2个小时。
Xu's father-in-law had to walk for two hours because he was breathing and breathing for two kilometers.
1月25日下午，徐彩的丈夫开始发烧，遵照分级诊疗政策，徐彩给所在的社区居委会打电话，但一整天占线，社区医院则无人接听。
On the afternoon of January 25, Xu's husband began to have a fever and, in accordance with the grading policy, Xu Cai telephoned his local neighborhood committee, but the line was busy all day and the community hospital was left unattended.
直到晚上10点，社区终于联系上徐彩，建议她自己克服一下，但此时的徐彩丈夫已经长时间高烧不退，退烧药也无济于事。
Until 10: 00 pm, the community finally contact Xu Cai, advised her to overcome it, but this time Xu Cai husband has a high fever for a long time, antipyretics is also of no avail.
徐彩只能越过社区，直接拨打120。
Xu can only cross the community and dial 120 directly.
大年初一凌晨3：00，在和朋友一起连续拨打2个多小时后，徐彩终于找到一辆救护车，接走了她丈夫。
New Year's Day at 3: 00 a.m., and friends in the continuous dialing more than two hours, Xu finally found an ambulance, took her husband.
第一站送到的武汉市天佑医院，一所新公布的定点医院，但救护车开过去后，医院才告知，还在清理床位，无法接诊。
The first stop was taken to Tian You Hospital in Wuhan, a newly announced designated hospital, but only after the ambulance passed by was the hospital informed that the bed was still being cleaned and could not be treated.
救护车只好把人送到十一医院，就是徐彩丈夫一直打针的定点医院，随后的肺部CT结果显示，徐彩丈夫的感染在加重。
Ambulances had to be taken to hospital XI, where Xu's husband had been injections, and subsequent lung CT findings indicated that Xu's infection was on the rise.
但十一医院无法安排住院，一是没有床位，二是按照新的分级诊疗政策，住院必须从社区渠道上报，经确诊后统一安排。
However, 11 hospitals were unable to arrange hospitalization, either because there were no beds or because, in accordance with the new classification policy, hospitalization had to be reported from community channels and arranged after diagnosis.
徐彩和朋友多方寻找关系，多家医院的答复都是如此。
Xu Cai and friends looking for a relationship, the response of many hospitals are so.
徐彩只能反复催促社区，而社区唯一能给出的反馈是，已经申报了，不知道什么时候有结果。
Xu can only repeatedly urge the community, and the only feedback the community can give is that they have declared, do not know when the results.
远征 摄1月26日上午，也就是分级诊疗方案公布两天过后，本刊记者随机拨打了多个区的10个街道办公开座机，其中一半无人接听，两个街道办可以帮忙安排车辆和上报，两个街道办表示负责分级诊疗信息传送，但无法保证车辆等。
January 26 morning, that is, two days after the publication of the classified treatment program, our reporter randomly dialed 10 street offices in various districts, half of them unattended, two street offices can help arrange vehicles and report, two street offices said responsible for hierarchical information transmission, but no guarantee of vehicles, etc.
本刊记者还拨打了10个社区医院和居委会电话，共有3个单位接通，2个称有车，可跑通流程，1个称自己也搞不清楚情况。
This print reporter also called 10 community hospitals and neighborhood committee telephone, a total of 3 units connected, 2 said there is a car, can run through the process, 1 said that they also do not know the situation.
实际上，在社区诊疗之前，已有一套分级诊疗流程，即原来普通医院收治的发热患者转往定点医院，定点医院的确诊重症患者转往金银潭医院。
In fact, before the community consultation, there was a set of graded procedures, namely the transfer of fever patients admitted to ordinary hospitals to designated hospitals, and the referral of confirmed patients from designated hospitals to Gold and Silver Pool Hospital.
走通这里的每一环同样艰难，一家三甲医院医生告诉本刊，“宣布定点医院制度后，我们区所在的那家定点医院设置了一个条件，即必须是确诊患者。
Each link here is equally difficult, a doctor at a triple-A hospital told the magazine. "After the announcement, the designated hospital in our district made it a condition that the patient be diagnosed.
现在试剂盒检测名额非常少，按照这个标准，我们手里的病人一时半会根本出不去，但医生已经支援出去，我们也将定点医院其他科室病人收入我们医院，我们现在只能竭力保持正常运转。
There are very few test kits available, and by that standard our patients won't be able to get out at all for a while, but the doctors have backed us up and we are going to have to book patients from other sections of the hospital into our hospital.
”定点医院也有难题。
Scheduling hospitals has its problems.
一家定点医院的护士李彤告诉本刊，他们医院的呼吸科在12月底开始爆满，今年1月初，医院先后腾出了好几层病房，专门收治发热病人。
Li Tong, a nurse at a designated hospital, told the magazine that the department began filling up at the end of December and that in early January several hospital rooms were set aside for treatment of febrile patients.
1月21日晚，医院接到通知，成为新冠肺炎的定点医院，更多的病人立刻蜂拥而至，在门外排起了数百米的长队，难以消化。
On the night of January 21, the hospital was notified that it would be the designated hospital for pneumonia, and more patients rushed in, lining up outside for hundreds of meters to digest it.
作为目前最终端的金银潭医院，需要确诊和转院手续才能入住， “准入”严格，人数相对可控的，这里的问题是严重缺乏医护人员。
As the final end of the gold and silver pool hospital, the need for diagnosis and transfer procedures in order to be admitted, "access" is strict, relatively manageable number of people, here the problem is a serious shortage of medical personnel.
林白在金银潭医院做护士，她和搭档们都是武汉市各医院志愿报名参加护理工作的。
Lin Bai worked as a nurse at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. She and her partners volunteered to take part in the nursing work at Wuhan hospitals.
一层楼接近40个病人，白班护士只有8人，夜班护士只有3人，从打针，到吃、喝、拉、撒、洗，全都要负责，其中危重病房里，护士护理时除了全身防护服，还要随身携带重达10斤的通风循环系统，每次最长只能待3个小时左右，否则有休克的危险。
Close to 40 patients per floor, only 8 nurses in the day shift and only 3 night nurses, ranging from injections to food, drink, pull, spread and wash. In the critically ill room, nurses take care of themselves in addition to their full-length protective clothing and a ventilation system of up to 10 kilos at a time for up to three hours at a time or risk of shock.
金银潭医院没有医护人员休息的地方，每天与危重症患者密切接触的医护人员，下班依然只能回家，做不到完全隔离。
There is no rest area for medical staff in the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital. Medical staff who are in close contact with critically ill patients every day can only return home from work without complete isolation.
为了增加抵抗力，林白和同事每天都吃中药和胸肽腺，后者是一种预防作用不确定的免疫调节药。
To increase their resistance, Lin Bai and his colleagues take both Chinese medicine and the thymopeptide glands daily, the latter being an immunomodulatory drug with uncertain preventive effects.
因为对金银潭医院的防护物资优先保障，她们的防护物资目前尚且充足。
Because of the priority given to the protection of the gold and silver pool hospital, their protective equipment is still adequate.
突然成为定点医院▲▲▲各级医院都面临着巨大的物资短缺，与急剧增加的问诊病人有关，也与前期准备不足有关。
Suddenly become the point of hospital are facing a huge material shortage, and the sharp increase in patients related to consultations, but also related to the lack of preparation.
李彤记得，1月22日，她们的医院成为定点医院，是突然宣布的。
On January 22, Li Tong remembers, their hospital was suddenly announced as a designated hospital.
李彤所在科室不是呼吸科，但之前已收治了几个住院病人，高度疑似新冠肺炎患者。
Li Tong's department is not respiratory department, but has previously admitted several inpatients, highly suspected patients with New Crown Pneumonia.
当时除了普通口罩，李彤所在科室，所有医护人员没有任何防护措施，属于“裸奔”状态。
At that time, in addition to ordinary masks, Li Tong's office, all medical personnel did not have any protective measures, belonging to the state of "streaking naked."
1月17号，医护人员中，已经有好几名疑似感染者，医护人员强烈申请防护用品，但得不到结果。
On January 17, there were already several cases of suspected infection among health-care workers, who pressed for protective equipment, but to no avail.
过了几天，1月20日左右，护士们的布料质地护士帽才终于换成一次性帽子。
A few days later, around January 20, the nurses' cloth caps finally changed to disposable hats.
自己单位成为定点医院的消息，李彤和患者差不多是同时知道的。
Unit become the news of the designated hospital, Li Tong and patients almost at the same time know.
这意味着，络绎不绝的发热病人已经涌到了门口，医院还在手忙脚乱地加装隔离门，做传染病房改造。
This means that a steady stream of feverish patients has flooded to the door and hospitals are scrambling to install quarantine doors and renovate infectious rooms.
医院只有两天时间缓冲，两天里，李彤要给自己的病人办理出院或转院，只见缝插针地接受了唯一一场培训，学会了穿脱防护服。
The hospital had a two-day buffer, and for two days, Li Tong had to get his patients out of the hospital or transferred to hospital.
最终，防护用品1月23日晚才正式发下来。
In the end, the supplies were not officially issued until the evening of 23 January.
匆忙的应对给医护人员带来了风险。
A hasty response poses a risk to health-care providers.
1月23日，李彤所在医院做了一次医护人员全员查血，光李彤所在的科室，就有好几个人居家隔离，整个医院则有数十名医护人员需要住院治疗，医护人员短缺也就变得更加严重。
On January 23, Li Tong's hospital did a full blood check by medical staffs. Several people in Li Tong's department were isolated at home, and dozens of hospital staff needed hospital treatment.
本刊记者采访的时候，李彤的一个同事已经连续上班18个小时。
When this print reporter interviewed, one of Li Tong's colleagues had worked continuously for 18 hours.
吴宏是武汉一家三甲医院的管理者，他说，封城后，政府对医疗人员没作任何安排。
Wu Hong, the administrator of a three-A hospital in Wuhan, said the government had made no arrangements for medical staff after the city was closed.
吴宏家离医院很远，平时都是靠公共交通出行，封城第一天他光是打车就花了1个多小时。
Wu Hongjia is far from the hospital and usually travels by public transportation. On the first day of the city, he spent more than an hour just taking a taxi.
他的同事中，家稍微近的一些人只能骑自行车上班。
Some of his colleagues who are closer to home have to ride bicycles to work.
医院最初连防护物资和基本民生物资运输通道都没有，直到多家医院呼吁，才打开一道专门运输通道。
The hospital did not even have access to protective equipment and basic necessities until several hospitals appealed to open a special transport corridor.
和大多数医院一样，吴宏所在的医院急缺口罩，他打了个比方，比如一家医院500人，最低限度，1人1天1个口罩，5000个口罩也只够用10天。
Like most hospitals, Wu Hong's hospital has an acute gap cover. For example, he has 500 people in a hospital, a minimum of one mask a day for one person, and 5,000 masks for only 10 days.
“如何才能一人一天一个口罩，怎么能够让医生一天好多台手术只用一个口罩？”为了减少使用，医院只能尽量给医务人员分工排班，减少非重点科室人员上班时间。
"How can one person a day get a mask, how can a doctor operate many times a day with just one mask?" To reduce usage, hospitals have had to divide their staff into as many classes as possible and cut down on non-priority sections.
这样一来，又加剧了医疗资源紧张的状况。
This, in turn, exacerbates the strain on medical resources.
防护品紧缺，跟用量激增和春节工厂停产有关，平时医院很少囤积防护用品。
Defensive products are in short supply and are related to surges in use and the shutdown of Spring Festival factories.
但根据吴宏的了解，市政府层面是有储备的，之所以没有放出来，是因为武汉版“小汤山医院”即正在建设当中，需要满足新建医院的需求。
But according to Wu Hong's understanding, the city government level is a reserve, why not released, because Wuhan version of the "Xiaotangshan Hospital" is under construction, to meet the needs of the new hospital.
目前，各大医院都在自己想办法向社会募捐防护物资。
At present, major hospitals are in their own way to collect protective materials from the community.
吴宏说，“募捐上，应该政府先拿出物资，（不足时）再向社会募集，现在反过来了。
"On fund-raising, the government should bring out the materials first, then collect from the society (when insufficient), and now the other way around," Wu said.
”1月24日晚间，湖北省新冠肺防控工作第三场新闻发布会召开，湖北省药监局称，将“走访省内口罩、人体测温仪、抗病毒药品的生产企业和批发企业……确保疫情防控所需药品、医疗器械的质量安全和市场供应。
During the night of January 24, the third press conference on the prevention and control of new coronary arteries and lungs in Hubei Province was held, and the Hubei Provincial Drug Administration said it would visit manufacturers and wholesalers of face masks, thermometers and antiviral drugs in the province to ensure the quality and safety of drugs and medical devices needed for disease prevention and control.
”实际上，与武汉相隔100多公里的仙桃市就是全国有名的一次性无纺布口罩生产基地。
In fact, the city of Xiantao, which is more than 100 kilometers away from Wuhan, is the country's famous single-use non-woven mask production base.
仙桃市的一位口罩代工厂管理者王名告诉本刊，就口罩而言，并没有囤积必要。
Xiantao City, a mask factory manager Wang name told this print, as far as masks are concerned, did not hoard necessary.
他提到，无论民用还是医用口罩，只要有滤材原料，工艺都是一样的，投产很快。
He mentioned that whether civilian or medical masks, as long as there are filter materials, the process is the same, put into production quickly.
王名所在工厂的口罩主要用于出口，月产量最高可达到3000万个。
Wang's factory masks are mainly for export, with a monthly output of up to 30 million.
目前，该厂存量原料可出品医用级别口罩几十万个，民用口罩700万个（防飞沫）。
At present, the factory's stock of raw materials can produce hundreds of thousands of medical-grade masks, civilian masks 7 million (anti-foam).
王名所在厂小年之前就放假了，放假之前，他和周围的同行都接到过来自港澳地区的口罩订单，其中有人单个订单达200万个，王名所在工厂最后一批加急订单是1月初接到的。
Before the holiday, Wang and his colleagues received orders for masks from Hong Kong and Macao, including two million individual orders, and the last batch of urgent orders from Wang's factory was received in early January.
疫情爆发以来，王名和同行一直在观望是否开工。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, Wang and his peers have been watching to see if work can begin.
他们去为卫健委咨询过，如果产品有医药公司接收，可以办通行证，但王名更担心的是原料问题，他们的存量只够用几天，原料不属于防护用品，是无法办通行证的，到时候怎么进来，现在还没有答案。
But Wang's name is more worried about raw materials. They only have enough for a few days. The raw materials are not protective and cannot be used. How to get in then is not known.
缪晓辉是上海市公共卫生临床咨询专家，曾全程参与2003年上海市和北京小汤山SARS防控。
Miao Xiaohui is a public health clinical consultant who participated in the prevention and control of Shanghai and Beijing Xiaotangshan SARS in 2003.
注意到武汉要加建两座临时医院时，缪晓辉很疑惑。
Noting Wuhan to build two additional temporary hospitals, Miao Xiaohui was very puzzled.
他说，2003年过后，全国的大型城市，基本上都新建了专门应对突发公共卫生事件的专科医院，加上原先肺科医院，所以至少有两家医院可以专门收治新冠肺炎感染者的医院，尤其是政府拨款于2003年之后新建的传染病医院，完全可以也必须承担类似于SARS期间小汤山医院的功能。
After 2003, he said, new hospitals specializing in public health emergencies had been built in major cities across the country, and the former pulmonary hospital had allowed at least two hospitals to specialize in treating patients with pneumonia, particularly the newly built infectious diseases hospital after 2003, which was funded by the Government, and could and must function like the Xiaotangshan Hospital during the SARS period.
在他看来，新建医院扩充场地固然重要，但如何调配好现有资源，快速应对，其实更加重要。
In his view, while it was important to expand the site of the new hospital, it was even more important to deploy existing resources and respond quickly.
事实上，有金银潭医护人员告诉本刊，直到1月25日，金银潭医院尚有部分病区闲置，主要原因是医护人员不够。
As a matter of fact, Gold and Silver Pool medical staff told the magazine that as at 25 January, there were still some sick areas in the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, mainly due to a shortage of medical staff.
避免恐慌性就医▲▲▲算下来，1月20日，钟南山在央视接受采访，1月22日，湖北省启动突发公共卫生事件II级应急响应，两天后升级为Ⅰ级响应，各省纷纷响应，短短一周之内，全中国的民众都经历了剧烈的情绪变化。
To avoid panic medical care, January 20, Zhong Nan Shan in CCTV interview, January 22, Hubei Province launched a public health emergency response, two days later to a class I response, the provinces have responded, in a week, people across China have experienced dramatic emotional changes.
那些处在暴风眼中心的武汉人感受可能尤其强烈。
Wuhan people in the eye of the storm may feel particularly strongly.
高兰兰是武汉青山人，她怀疑，她爸爸是惊慌过度才发热的。
Gao Lanlan is Wuhan Qingshan people, she suspects, her father is panic excessive febrile.
12月末，通过医疗圈的朋友，高兰兰是最早知晓疫情并高度警觉的少数人之一，她早早买了口罩，在朋友圈发出警示，但她爸爸一直很淡定，直到1月23日，武汉已经封城，高兰兰跟朋友讨论疫情时，老人依然嘱咐她，不要造谣传谣。
At the end of December, Gallang, one of the first people in the medical community to know about the outbreak and be on high alert, bought a mask early enough to warn her friends, but her father remained silent until January 23, when Wuhan was closed to friends about the outbreak and the old man told her not to rumor.
老人的情绪转折发生在1月24日一早，当时高兰兰一个朋友的丈夫被隔离，打电话通知了高兰兰。
The emotional turn for the old man came early on January 24, when the husband of a friend of Goran's was quarantined and telephoned Goran Lan.
头一天，高兰兰的邻居家有老人去世，虽然后来证实是流感引发，但大家都很怀疑，加上微信群里疯传的各类医护人员崩溃视频，老人的血压迅速飙升，虽然吃药后已恢复正常，但老人一直心慌难受。
The first day an old man died in a neighbor's house. Although it turned out to be flu-related, there was a lot of suspicion. Coupled with the video of a frantic breakdown of medical staff in the crowd, blood pressure soared.
老人是在1月25日发热的，体温在37.3和37.4之间徘徊，高兰兰第一反应是给社区打电话，想走分级诊疗流程，但社区工作人员告诉高兰兰，他们不是医生，没有防护，也没办法，建议高兰兰带着老人到青山区定点医院九医院去看门诊，或直接拨打120，并强调“打120一定可以住进医院”。
The old man had a fever on January 25, and his body temperature hovered between 37.3 and 37.4. Goran's first reaction was to call the community, which told him they were not doctors, had no protection or could not help.
高兰兰很犹豫，她想在家给爸爸做隔离，但附近药店都关门了，如果去医院的话，她知道青山区的定点医院九医院早已人满为患。
Goran hesitated. She wanted to isolate her father at home, but the nearby drugstore was closed. If she went to the hospital, she knew that the nine hospitals in Qingshan District were already overcrowded.
最后，还是一个公务员朋友告诉她，前几天去过一所大型三级医院收拾病床，就在高兰兰家附近，建议她去试试。
Finally, a civil servant friend told her that she had been to a large level III hospital the other day to clean up her bed, near the Goran family, and suggested that she try.
高兰兰带着老人过去后，才知道这里的发热门诊一直开着，除了救护车进进出出，整个医院里非常冷清，高兰兰爸爸的前面，只有三个病人。
Goran took the old man over and found out that the fever clinic was open, except for ambulances coming in and out, the hospital was deserted, and Papa Goran had only three patients in front.
远征 摄在医院，高兰兰的爸爸查了甲流、乙流，也拍了肺部CT，最后医生判断，除了支气管炎，老人其实没病，暂时不用开药。
At the hospital, Gallang's father checked A-flow, B-flow, and also took a lung CT, finally doctors, except bronchitis, the old man is not really ill, temporarily do not need to prescribe drugs.
1月26日一早，老人体温恢复正常，但无论高兰兰如何安慰，老人始终惊恐不安，总认为自己处于潜伏期。
Early on January 26, the old man's temperature returned to normal, but no matter how reassuring Goran was, the old man was always frightened and thought he was in latency.
和高兰兰父亲一样恐慌性就医的可能不少，就在高兰兰带父亲看病时，他们前面的一位中年妇女，一周之内已经连续去了三趟医院，医生再三嘱咐她，不要再来了，再拍CT，没病也要拍出病来。
As likely as Gallang's father to have a panic attack, a middle-aged woman in front of him, who had been to the hospital three times in a week, repeatedly told her not to come back, to take a CT, not to get sick.
这也是为什么，在缪晓辉看来，在面对如此复杂的疫情时，抢救病人是一个层面，但打好社区基础也非常重要。
That is why, in Muse's view, rescuing patients in the face of such a complex epidemic is a level, but it is also important to lay the foundations of a community.
但打好社区基础，不是将筛查分流的决定交给社区，这既难以操作，民众也没有信任感，而是在防护齐全的基础上，挨家挨户上门，帮助政府做好流行病学调查、心理安抚和科普，“要做的是一些细致专业的工作，考验的是当地政府的行政智慧”，缪晓辉说。
But rather than leaving the decision to divert screening to the community, which is difficult to operate and there is no trust in the population, it is to help the government with epidemiological investigations, psychological pacification, and popular science on a well-guarded basis. "The job is to do some meticulous professional work that tests the administrative wisdom of the local government," says Miao Xiaohui.
根据本刊了解，截止1月26日，部分社区居委会和社区医院还没有任何通知，培训和防护物资也无从谈起，这意味着，作为如今新冠肺炎分级诊疗中的最基础和重要的一环，社区委员会和医院，除了等待患者上门后，完成信息上报，实际能做的工作比较有限。
According to this publication, as of January 26, some community neighbourhood committees and community hospitals have not been notified, and training and protective materials are not available. This means that community committees and hospitals, as the most basic and important part of the grading of new crown pneumonia, can do little more than wait for patients to complete their reports.
目前，武汉市基本已停掉所有交通，吴宏估计，这种措施之下，新增感染病例会立马减少，但病毒的潜伏期长达到两周，所以起码要经过两个观察周期，才能考虑是否解除一些措施。
At present, Wuhan city has basically stopped all traffic, Wu Hong estimated that under this measure, new infections will immediately reduce, but the incubation period of the virus up to two weeks, so at least two observation cycles before considering whether to lift some of the measures.
作为一个对网络信息充分敏感的年轻人，在1月初，高兰兰非常惊慌，当时身边大多数人都不理解她。
As a young man who was sufficiently sensitive to online information, Gallang panicked so much in early January that most people around him did not understand her.
但1月23日封城那边，凌晨三点，好朋友给她打来电话，问她要不要买机票一起逃离武汉时，高兰兰看着身边的小家伙，想想隔壁房间的老人，再想想自己在武汉的30多年美好生活，最终放弃了还有余票的航班。
But when her best friend called her at 3 a. m., asking her if she wanted to buy a ticket to flee Wuhan, Goran looked at the little fellow next door, thinking about the old man in the next room, thinking about his 30-year good life in Wuhan, and finally giving up the flight with the ticket.
如今，身在武汉，和一个星期前难以捉摸的风平浪静不同，她每天都能看到汹涌的疫情信息，有疾病扩散、物资短缺的负能量，也有陌生人与陌生人守望相助的正能量。
Now, unlike the erratic calm of a week ago, Wuhan, she sees daily a surge of information about the epidemic, the spread of disease, the negative energy of shortages, and the positive energy of strangers and strangers to help each other.
每一条信息都能让窥见一些真相，她反而冷静下来，并且劝说父亲，相信集体的力量。
Each piece of information gives a glimpse of the truth, but she calms down and persuades her father to believe in the power of the collective.
（大力感谢片片在武汉的帮助和支持，吴宏、李彤、高兰兰、王名、林白为化名，实习生杨月、张佳婧对本文亦有贡献）进展：1月26日晚，通过社区渠道，徐彩的丈夫终于排到一张床位，病床来自正是高兰兰家附近的那家三级医院。
Wu Hong, Li Tong, Gao Lan Lan, Wang name and Lin Bai are alias. Intern Yang Yun and Zhang Jia Jing also contributed to this article. On the night of January 26, Xu Cha-cai's husband was finally assigned to a bed at the level-III hospital near the Goran family home.
1月28日，徐彩的公公婆婆也在漫长的等待后，入院治疗。
On January 28, Xu Cai's father-in-law was hospitalized after a long wait.
在最艰难的时期，有朋友去医院接送她的丈夫，有陌生的网友在她家门口放下了防护用品、生活物资，还有众多邻居一起协助她，到处寻找就医渠道。
In the toughest times, friends went to the hospital to pick up her husband, strangers left protective equipment and supplies in front of her house, and many neighbors helped her and looked for medical treatment.
当她的公公婆婆一直无法入院时，有人建议她带着公婆去社区委员会所在地守着，但她拒绝了，无论再艰难，她不希望自己的家人成为传染源。
When her mother-in-law was unable to go to the hospital, she was advised to take her in-laws to the community council site, but she refused, and no matter how difficult it was, she did not want her family to be a source of infection.
作者档案王海燕三联记者，比较喜欢采访，偶尔也喜欢写稿26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信公众号：解放路97号（jm-freetree）王珊喜欢阳光，喜欢晒太阳，最近喜欢易建联。
Author files Wang Haiyan reporters, more like the interview, occasionally also like to write 26 minutes ago Lifestyle personal micro-public number: 97 (jm-freetre) Wang Shan likes the sun, likes the sun, recently likes Yi Jianlian.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@小笨走走停请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Twenty-six minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo @ Stupid Walk Stop Poking! Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the lookout for the epidemic # # The Triple Lifestyle Weekly media is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉防疫：如何利用好现有资源？。
Wuhan epidemic prevention: how to make good use of existing resources?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉防疫：如何利用好现有资源？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan Prevention: How to use its existing resources?;;
var msg_desc = "新建医院扩充场地固然重要，但如何调配好现有资源，快速应对，其实更加重要。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
