航班因疫情停飞后，我开启了海外自救之旅。
After the flight was grounded by the outbreak, I started my overseas self-help trip.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
The following article comes from 凤凰网读书。
The following article comes from the Order of the Phoenix.
Author 李牧谣。
Author Li Ballad.
凤凰网读书。
Order of Phoenix.
文字之美，精神之渊。
The beauty of words, the spirit of deep.
关注当下优秀出版书籍，打捞故纸陈书，推出凤凰网读书会、读药周刊、凤凰好书榜、文学青年周刊、凤凰副刊、一日一书、凤凰诗刊等精品专刊。
Pay attention to the excellent publication of books, salvage the old paper, launch Phoenix Internet Reading Club, Reading Medicine Weekly, Phoenix Good Book List, Literature and Youth Weekly, Phoenix Supplement, One Day Book, Phoenix Poetry Journal, etc.
在繁杂的世俗生活中，留一点时间探寻文字的美感，徜徉于精神的深渊，安静下来，慢一点生活。
Leave some time to explore the beauty of the written word and to indulge yourself in the depths of the spirit.
。
.
____1月31日，意大利宣布国家进入紧急状态，当天便停飞了来往中国的航班。
On January 31, Italy declared a state of emergency and suspended flights to and from China on the same day.
朋友告诉我，很多国人滞留在了意大利，其中便有她的前同事翔哥。
Friends told me that many people stay in Italy, among them her former colleague Xiang Ge.
我和翔哥联系上的时候是2月4号，那时他已离开了意大利，到了阿布扎比（阿联酋），因为那里直飞中国的航班还开着。
When I contacted Xiang Ge on February 4, he had already left Italy for Abu Dhabi (UAE), where direct flights to China were still on.
他告诉我，阿联酋航空刚刚暂停了除北京以外，所有往返中国的航班。
He told me Emirates had just suspended all flights to and from China except Beijing.
情况一天一变，他很担心自己会从滞留意大利变成滞留中东。
As the situation changed, he worried that he would turn from staying in Italy to staying in the Middle East.
说起在意大利的见闻，他反复提到的词汇是：“歧视”与“自救”。
Speaking of what he had seen in Italy, he repeatedly referred to the words "discrimination" and "self-help."
（本文根据翔哥口述，整理、撰写而成）____01一夜之间，意大利进入紧急状态我出国的时候（1月21号），武汉还没封城，新闻也没什么报道。
When I left the country (January 21), Wuhan was still closed, and the news did not report on it.
在我的印象里，那只是个地区性的流感。
As far as I can tell, it was a regional flu.
我先在捷克待了几天，然后去了意大利（1月27日）。
I stayed in the Czech Republic for a few days before going to Italy (January 27).
冬天的意大利明媚温暖，很少落雨。
Italy is bright and warm in winter and seldom rains.
那儿的人很友好，比起英国人的脾气古怪，他们挺爱聊天。
The people there were friendly, more chatty than the English.
意大利街景一位奢侈品店员跟我说，佛罗伦萨附近的高速上发现了一辆武汉旅行团的大巴，车上有人发烧。
A luxury goods store clerk told me that a Wuhan tour bus with a fever had been spotted on the highway near Florence.
于是报了警，结果整个高速都封路了。
I called the police and the whole freeway was blocked.
那两天，每晚回到酒店，我都会看看CNN和BBC新闻（因为就这俩是英文频道了），看它们一会儿“弹劾川普”一会儿“武汉肺炎”。
On those two days, back at the hotel every night, I would look at CNN and BBC News (because these are the English channels) and watch them impeach Trump for a while for "Wuhan Pneumonia."
后来，武汉的篇幅越来越多，还有个BBC记者想闯金银潭医院，被武警拦了下来。
Later, Wuhan, more and more length, and a BBC reporter wanted to break into the gold and silver pool hospital, was stopped down by armed police.
起初我很庆幸，觉得自己出来旅游躲过了疫情。
At first I was lucky enough to feel I had escaped the epidemic when I went out traveling.
结果事态急转直下，1月30号，意大利就出现在了CNN新闻上。
As a result, things fell sharply, with Italy appearing on CNN news on January 30.
两名武汉的游客在罗马确诊了，意大利海岸的歌诗达游轮上有一对香港夫妇疑似“新冠”，同乘的7000人都滞留在了游轮上。
Two Wuhan tourists confirmed a suspected new crown for a Hong Kong couple aboard the Italian coast's GetWord ("New Crown"); cruise ship, with 7,000 people stranded on board.
同天，世界卫生组织（以下简称“世卫组织”）把“新冠”疫情列为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件。
On the same day, the World Health Organization (WHO) listed the New Crown outbreak as a public health emergency of international concern.
据歌诗达翡翠邮轮证实，包含船员和乘客，约7000人被扣留在邮轮上大约12个小时。
About 7,000 people, including crew and passengers, were detained on the cruise ship for about 12 hours, according to Gesthda Jade Cruise.
在检验结果呈阴性之后，乘客才开始被允许放行。
Passengers were not allowed to proceed until negative results had been obtained.
几件事堆叠，意大利一夜之间宣布进入紧急状态，停飞了所有往返中国的航班。
Several events piled up, and Italy declared a state of emergency overnight, stopping all flights to and from China.
我到罗马才两天，还没怎么开始玩儿，就发现回不去了。
I've only been in Rome for two days and I haven't had much time to play yet and I can't get back.
02通话大使馆停飞后，我立刻开始研究，如何从第三国中转回国。
02 After the embassy was grounded, I immediately began to study how to transit home from a third country.
不妙的是，世卫组织消息一出，很多国家都停飞了，英航是最早停的。
Unfortunately, the WHO news, many countries stopped flying, British Airways is the first to stop.
我在微博上看到，很多滞留在意大利的国人连夜赶去马德里、法兰克福、阿姆斯特丹，希望从那里直飞中国，返程机票炒都到了三万六。
I saw on Weibo that a lot of people staying in Italy go to Madrid, Frankfurt and Amsterdam by night, hoping to fly directly from there to China.
结果他们到了那边，反馈说：航班也取消了。
When they got there, they reported that the flight had also been canceled.
我乘坐的国航给了我两个选择：退款和免费改签到五个月内的航班。
Air China gave me two choices: a refund and a free renewal of my flight within five months.
我问：“那这不是让我滞留三四个月么，签证过期了怎么办？”他们说：“这个要问意大利的海关或者移民局。
I asked, "Isn't that what happens if I'm stuck for three or four months, when my visa expires?" They say, "It's going to ask the Italian customs or immigration authorities.
”意大利人的英文听起来有点费劲，大概他们听我的英文也费劲。
The Italians' English sounded a little difficult, and they probably had a hard time listening to it.
我们总是聊得驴头不对马嘴，于是我拨了中国驻意大利大使馆的电话。
We always talked badly, so I dialed the Chinese Embassy in Italy.
电话一直占线。
The telephone has been busy.
那时，我正在威尼斯一个餐厅吃饭，每隔一段时间就拿起手机再打一次。
At that time, I was eating at a Venetian restaurant, picking up my cell phone every once in a while and trying to call again.
我旁边坐着俩英国人，用很正宗的英伦腔说：“中国人连蝙蝠都吃，活该吃出来那个病。
Next to me sat two Englishmen, who said in a very proper English accent: "The Chinese even eat bats. They deserve it.
”“他们这样破坏自然和侵害动物，是上帝的惩罚。
"" It is God's punishment for destroying nature and attacking animals in this way.
”电话终于拨通了。
"At last the telephone dialed.
大使馆问我是不是湖北籍，有没有感冒发烧的迹象。
The embassy asked me if I was of Hubei nationality and had any signs of catching a cold or fever.
我说没有。
I said no.
我问他们会不会包机把滞留在意大利的国人统一接回去。
I asked them if they could charter a plane to bring the stranded Italians home.
他们说，正在联系，但可能优先湖北籍的，其他户籍建议自行离开，去第三国转机。
They said the contact, but may be priority Hubei nationality, other household registration proposed to leave, to a third country transit.
我问，还有哪些国家可以中转。
I ask which countries are still in transit.
他们说，可以到机场咨询台问问。
They said they could ask at the airport information desk.
走出餐厅的时候，路边的鸽子忽然成群地飞走了。
As they walked out of the restaurant, the pigeons on the side of the road flew away in droves.
“要是我也会飞，就好了。
If only I could fly, too.
”我想。
"I thought.
意大利，威尼斯广场03China Virus(中国病毒)2月1号，是我滞留在意大利的第五天。
Venice Plaza 03 China Virus, Italy February 1, is my fifth day in Italy.
当地报纸的头版出现了“China Virus（中国病毒）”的报道。
"China Virus" appeared on the front page of a local newspaper.
2月1日，意大利当地晚报这两天我被问得最多的问题是“Where are you from?”(你从哪儿来？)我的标准答案是：“China,but relax,not from Wuhan.”(来自中国，放心，但我不是武汉来的。
On February 1, the most frequently asked question in the Italian evening paper these two days was "Where are you from?" (My standard answer is "China, but not from rain?").
)佛罗伦萨的LV门口站着一排戴口罩的店员，只有中国游客还在里面逛，已经很少能看见老外了。
) Inside Florence's LV stand a line of mask-wearing shop assistants. Only Chinese tourists wander inside. Foreigners are rarely seen.
远看去，仿佛是中国人的“隔离房”。
Looking ahead, it seems to be the "isolation room" of the Chinese people.
微博上的滞留求助者越来越多，一位博主组建了“滞留意大利自救联盟小分队”微信群。
As the number of callers on Weibo grew, a blogger formed the "AutoHelp Team in Italy" micro-group.
滞留群公告截图进群之后，我发现我的情况还算好的，群里很多人一句英文都不懂，他们真的完全不知道怎么办。
After the interception of the detention group announcement into the group, I found that my situation is good, many people in the group do not understand a word of English, they really do not know how to do.
群里有人说，川航本来想从罗马接回一批滞留的国人，机票也挺便宜，四千多，但是意大利官方态度很强硬，就是不让中国航班落地。
Some people in the group said Sichuan Airlines had wanted to pick up some stranded Chinese from Rome, and airfares were cheap, more than 4,000, but Italian officials were tough enough not to let Chinese flights land.
另外，我们很快证实了：目前俄罗斯航空和阿联酋航空还能飞中国。
In addition, we quickly confirmed that at present Russian Airlines and Emirates can still fly to China.
大家都说，患难见真情，这俩是真兄弟。
Everybody says that once in a blue moon, these two are real brothers.
我果断买了2月3号飞阿布扎比（阿联酋），2月6号从阿联酋飞北京的机票。
I decisively bought the February 3 flight to Abu Dhabi (UAE), February 6 from the United Arab Emirates to Beijing.
在去机场的公交上，一个白人老太太看见了我，然后突然用围巾捂住鼻子，冲下了车。
On the bus to the airport, a white old lady saw me and suddenly covered her nose with a scarf and rushed out of the car.
车上另一位看报纸的男性，也瞥了我几眼。
The other man on the bus, who was reading the newspaper, glanced at me a few times.
我看见他手上报纸的头版写着“远离中国人”。
I saw the front page of his newspaper saying "Away from the Chinese."
这两天，这类现象很常见，一些餐厅和酒店已经明确写着“不接待中国人”；我在意大利念书的朋友说，留学生群体遭受的歧视很严重；互助群里的还有一些朋友被酒店安排在了地下室。
Over the past two days, the phenomenon has become commonplace, with some restaurants and hotels clearly saying "No to the Chinese"; my friends studying in Italy say the discrimination against the international community is severe; some friends in the solidarity group are housed in the basement.
“不允许中国国籍游客进入”通告出关的安检出人意料地松懈，我本来以为“国家进入紧急状态”会更严格。
Security at the exit of the "No Chinese Tourists" notice was surprisingly relaxed, and I thought the "state of emergency" would be stricter.
他们给中国人单独开了一个安检通道，既不量体温，也不怎么查退税的单据。
They set up a separate security check for the Chinese, without measuring body temperature or checking tax rebates.
和我以前来意大利的时候不一样。
It's not the same as when I came to Italy.
我在这种“优待”里接受到了一个特别明确的信息：你啥都不缺，赶紧走就好。
I received a particularly clear message in this "favor": You don't need anything, just walk away.
04绕道阿联酋从罗马到阿布扎比的飞机上，我右边坐着一位美国男人，气质斯文，没戴口罩。
On a plane detour from Rome to Abu Dhabi, I sat on the right of an American man with a gentle temperament and no mask.
他问我从哪儿来，我说中国。
He asked me where I came from and I said China.
交谈中，我得知他老婆是无国界医生组织的一员，正在非洲处理类似的疾病。
During the conversation, I learned that his wife was a member of Médecins Sans Frontières and was dealing with similar diseases in Africa.
“中国这次的病毒太聪明了，初期看不出来，后期才爆发传染给很多人。
"The virus in China was too clever to be seen at the beginning and spread to many people only later.
”“很多病毒口罩是防范不住的，更重要的是洗手。
"Many viral masks can't be prevented, and washing hands is more important.
”“中国政府这次反应的比我想象得要好。
"The Chinese government has reacted better than I expected this time.
”“希望你回国是正确的决定。
"" I hope you made the right decision to return home.
”他一个人絮絮叨叨地说，粉色的POLO衫让他显得更随性和健谈。
'Pink polo shirts make him more sociable and talkative, 'he says alone.
我频频对他表达赞赏和感谢。
I often express my appreciation and gratitude to him.
这大概是我这些天，听到的最客观的言论和最平等的对话。
This is probably the most objective statement and the most equal conversation I've ever heard these days.
下飞机后，我看到阿联酋航空的通告：暂停了除北京以外，所有往返中国的航班。
When I got off the plane, I saw Emirates Airways announcing that it had suspended all flights to and from China except Beijing.
我心头一紧：我不会从滞留意大利，变成滞留中东了吧。
My heart tightened: I would not stay in Italy, but in the Middle East.
阿联酋航空新闻截图阿联酋对中国疫情敏感和警惕不亚于意大利。
Emirates Airline News footage shows the UAE as sensitive and vigilant to the Chinese epidemic as Italy.
机场里全是戴口罩的人，清真寺、博物馆的工作人员也全部戴起了口罩。
The airport is full of masks, and the staff of mosques and museums are all wearing masks.
我们每坐一辆出租车，司机都会问：“你来自哪里？”在得知我来自中国后，他们便立刻戴上口罩，其中一人叽里呱啦说了些什么，我只记住了一个单词“Dangerous（危险）”。
Every time we took a taxi, the driver would ask, "Where are you from?" When they learned that I was from China, they immediately put on a mask, and one of them squeaked.
有一次我在阿布扎比地铁上，听见两个黑人在聊天。
I once heard two Negroes chatting on the Abu Dhabi subway.
“你没有口罩吗？”“没有。
Do you have a mask? No.
”“你知不知道有一种来自于中国的可怕的病毒？”然后，其中一人给另一人递去一个口罩。
"" Did you know there was a terrible virus from China? "Then one of them handed another a mask.
他们就站在我旁边，或许他们以为我听不懂英文。
They were standing next to me. Maybe they thought I didn't understand English.
其实我也能理解这种歧视：这是他们自我保护的一种方式。
I can also understand the discrimination: it's a way for them to protect themselves.
外国人躲中国人，和一些国人躲武汉人一样，谁都站不上道德的制高点。
Foreigners hide from the Chinese, and some Chinese people hide from Wuhan, no one can stand on the moral high ground.
那位美国朋友说的“希望你回国是正确的选择”，我知道他其实想说“或许你留在欧洲更好”。
The American friend said, "I hope you're the right choice," and I knew he was trying to say, "Maybe you'd better stay in Europe."
到底哪种选择更好？安全与平等哪个更重要？逃离和归家哪个更明智？我想了一路。
Which option is better? Which is more important, security or equality? Which is wiser to flee and go home? I thought all the way.
翔哥的阿联酋航班2月6日，我的航班如约起飞了，这架航班里全是中国人。
Xiang Ge's Emirates flight February 6, my flight scheduled to take off, this flight is full of Chinese people.
空姐不太情愿地服务我们，头顶上方的呼叫铃按了几次，都没有人来。
The stewardess grudgingly served us, and the call bell above the head rang several times, but no one came.
当外国人对国人避之不及的时候，这一飞机的人却千方百计地要回国。
When foreigners shun their countrymen, the plane's men try to get back home.
飞机落地北京的时候，机上发出一阵轻微的欢呼，我也觉得自己运气真好。
As the plane landed in Beijing, there was a slight cheer and I felt lucky.
我想，那些两难题，我们都找到答案了。
I think we've found the answers to both of those questions.
编辑：_童_指杏花村图片来自网络知识 | 思想 凤 凰 读 书 文学|趣味。
Editing: _ Tong _ refers to apricot village photo from Internet knowledge and phoenix phoenix phoenix phoenix has read book literature & # 144; # 124; fun.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
航班因疫情停飞后，我开启了海外自救之旅。
After the flight was grounded by the outbreak, I started my overseas self-help trip.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "航班因疫情停飞后，我开启了海外自救之旅";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; I started overseas with AT & quot; when the flight was grounded by the outbreak.
var msg_desc = "安全与平等哪个更重要？逃离和归家哪个更明智？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Which is more important, security or equality? Which is wiser to run from and get home?;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
