比“武汉加油”更实际的，是善待武汉人。
"Wuhan refueling" more practical, is to treat Wuhan people well.
王梓辉 张佳婧。
Zi Hui Zhang Jing Jing.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
这些天，我们收到很多武汉人在外省遭遇的反馈。
These days, we have received a lot of feedback from Wuhan people in the provinces.
在“武汉加油”的口号下，“武汉人”却成了被特殊对待的对象。
Under the slogan of "Wuhan refueling," "Wuhan people" has become the object of special treatment.
滞留在外的他们，被驱逐、歧视甚至遭遇个人隐私的严重泄露。
They have been expelled, discriminated against and even exposed to serious breaches of their privacy.
这种因恐慌而起的非理性反应，让很多人似乎忘了，武汉疫情并不是武汉人的错。
This irrational response, caused by panic, makes many people seem to forget that Wuhan epidemic is not the fault of Wuhan people.
他们中的很多人，都是1月23号“封城”之前、甚至是1月20号疫情爆发之前离开的武汉。
Many of them were in Wuhan before the January 23 "siege," or even before the January 20 outbreak.
他们中的多数人，也都愿意配合所到之地卫生部门的隔离与检查。
Most of them are also willing to cooperate with the quarantine and inspection by the health authorities of the places they visit.
而现在他们面临的处境，不仅是想回家而不得，更是被排斥在了正常的社会生活之外。
Now they are in a situation where they not only want to go home, but are also excluded from normal social life.
不过，让人开始感到安慰的是，已经有些地方政府开始主动为武汉以及其他湖北籍游客提供集中统一的住宿场所。
However, it is beginning to take comfort that some local governments have taken the initiative to provide centralized accommodation for Wuhan and other Hubei tourists.
这也是目前最可行的解决办法。
This is also the most feasible solution at present.
如霍布斯在《论人性》中所言，“发生在一个无辜人身上的苦难，也有可能发生在所有人身上。
As Hobbes put it in "On Human Nature," "What happens to an innocent person can happen to everyone."
”善待武汉人，才是真正善待我们自己。
To treat Wuhan people well is to treat ourselves well.
记者 | 王梓辉实习记者 | 张佳婧李青霞一家是在1月25号被物业从租住的酒店式公寓里赶出来的。
Journalist Wang Zihui's internship with Ren Jing Li and her family were evicted from their rented apartment on January 25.
在那之前，李青霞一家三口带着她的公公婆婆已经在那里住了4天。
Before that, the three Li Qingxia family and her parents-in-law had been living there for four days.
前两天都没问题，直到1月23号武汉宣布“封城”，全国人民都意识到了疫情的严重性，他们的度假之旅也就被迫结束了。
The first two days were fine, until January 23rd, when Wuhan declared a "closed city," when the whole country realized the seriousness of the epidemic and their vacation was forced to end.
去年11月，李青霞一家人就定了要去海南三亚过年的行程。
Last November, the Li Qingxia family decided to go to Sanya Hainan to celebrate the New Year.
1月16日，他们一家5口人开着一辆鄂A牌照的车从武汉自驾前往海南，并于1月18日登上了海南岛。
On January 16, the five-member family drove from Wuhan to Hainan in a car with a Hubei A license plate and boarded Hainan Island on January 18.
那时，家住武昌地区、自称“很少往汉口跑”的李青霞只知道华南海鲜市场出了问题，具体是什么问题她也不清楚。
At the time, Li Qingxia, who lives in Wuchang and calls herself "seldom runs to Hankou," only knew that the South China seafood market was out of order.
1月23号当天下午，这片房产的物业找上门来对他们说，“你们是武汉人，不能住在这里。
On the afternoon of January 23, the property approached them and said, "You are Wuhan people. You can't live here.
”李青霞一家当然不能接受，就找当初订房的旅行网站出面协调，暂时解决了问题。
The Li Qingxia family certainly cannot accept, sought the original booking travel website to come forward to coordinate, temporarily solved the problem.
但24、25号，物业方面仍然希望他们搬走。
On the 24th and 25th, the property still wants them to move out.
25号下午，李青霞他们和物业工作人员发生了激烈的言语冲突，李青霞对物业说：“我们是付了钱的，为什么要走？哪一条法律法规规定了武汉人不能住房？你要是拿法律法规出来，我马上走。
On the afternoon of the 25th, Li Qingxia and her property staff had a violent verbal conflict. "We paid for it, why should we go?" Li told the property.
”双方叫来了警察。
"Police came from both sides.
在李青霞家人拍摄的视频中，民警和物业希望他们一家去医疗机构做检查，证明自己没有感染冠状病毒；而李青霞他们一家一方面认为医院无法给普通人开具“没有新型冠状病毒”的证明，另一方面也无法获得民警后续“只要开具了证明就可以不被酒店赶走”的保证。
In a video taken by Li's family, police and property wanted the family to go to a medical facility to check that they were not infected with the coronavirus, while Li and his family said the hospital was unable to certify that the coronavirus was free of coronavirus.
双方僵持之下，还是靠旅行网站出面协调，旅行网站的工作人员说可以帮李青霞一家再找个地方，但是要他们隐藏武汉人的身份。
The two sides froze, or rely on travel website coordination, travel site staff said to help the Li Qingxia family find another place, but they have to hide Wuhan identity.
李青霞觉得被歧视和侮辱了，“我跟他们说，我要住就堂堂正正地住。
Li Qingxia felt discriminated against and insulted. "I told them I wanted to live in a decent way."
第一我没得病，我不是感染者；第二，没有哪条法律规定武汉人不能住。
First, I did not get sick, I am not infected; secondly, there is no law against Wuhan people can not live.
”最后还是一家大型连锁酒店在保证每日体温检测的情况下接纳了他们。
Finally, a large hotel chain accepted them with a daily temperature check.
但在视频中，当地民警无意中的一句话让李青霞最为愤怒，那位民警一边登记他们的身份证信息，一边随口说：“说句不好听的话，你们是偷偷跑出来的，你们应该在家隔离的。
But in the video, the local civilian police inadvertently let Li Qingxia the most angry, the civilian police while registering their identity card information, casually said: "To say a bad word, you sneak out, you should be isolated at home.
”李青霞一家听到后瞬间炸开了，李青霞甚至哭了起来，边哭边反驳：“我们不是偷跑出来的，我们1月16号就出来，23号才发的封城，那时哪个知道会发生这个情况嘛。
When the Li Qingxia family heard about the explosion, Li Qingxia even started to cry and retorted: "We didn't sneak out, we came out on January 16, the city that was issued on the 23rd.
如果我们知道有这个情况，还跑出来祸害别人干嘛？”远征 摄你看，这也是大多数滞留在外地的武汉人觉得自己最冤枉的地方：我们明明都是1月23号之前、甚至是1月20号疫情爆发之前离开的武汉，我们自己也不知道情况会变成这样，又不是故意要跑出来的。
If we had known this, we would have run out and done harm to others.As you can see, this is what most Wuhan people in other places feel most wronged: we were all in Wuhan before January 23rd or even before the outbreak of Jan. 20, and we didn't know it was going to happen.
数据似乎也能说明这一点。
The data also seem to illustrate this point.
据武汉市长周先旺透露的数据，因为春节和疫情影响离开武汉的人超过500万。
More than five million people left Wuhan during the Spring Festival and the outbreak, according to figures released by Wuhan city chief Zhou Xianwang.
而百度地图慧眼的迁徙大数据显示，1月10日至1月22日春运期间，每天从武汉出发的人群中有6至7成的人都流向了湖北省内，扩散至全国其他地区的人数反而是少数。
But big data on migration from Baidu's map show that between 6 and 70 percent of the daily flow of people leaving Wuhan during the Spring Festival from January 10 to January 22 went to Hubei province, where the number of people spreading to the rest of the country was a minority.
但老百姓对传染病的恐惧压倒了一切。
But the common people's fear of infectious disease overcame everything.
一些武汉人隐瞒信息的案例被放大，本就处于风口浪尖的“武汉人”在全国其他地区成了被特殊对待的对象。
Some Wuhan people hide information cases have been magnified, this is at the top of the "Wuhan people" in the rest of the country has become a special treatment object.
李青霞一家至少还有酒店住，在很多的旅游目的地，因为“一刀切”的政策，在那边旅游的武汉人这几天的经历更惨。
The Li family still has at least hotel accommodation, in many tourist destinations, because of the "one-size-fits-all" policy, Wuhan people who travel there have had worse experiences in the past few days.
悦心在云南大理开了一间民宿，她告诉本刊，1月25号上午，大理古城景区就宣布整个景区将在晚上7:30关闭，且所有的民宿旅舍都不能接待客人。
Yueyin, who runs a residential residence in Dali, Yunnan, told the magazine on the morning of January 25 that the entire area would be closed at 7: 30 pm and that all residential hostels would not be able to receive guests.
而当天晚上十点，就有从武汉来的一家三口找不到地方住，还在给他们家打电话问能不能够收留他们。
At ten o'clock that evening, a family of three from Wuhan could not find a place to live, and were still calling their families to see if they could take them in.
“但是我们也不敢收留，大家也挺心酸的。
"But we did not dare to take in, and we were all rather sad.
”事实上，大部分武汉人也不想滞留在外地，他们是想回家而不得。
In fact, most Wuhan people do not want to stay outside, they want to go home instead.
虽然1月23号“封城”的公告只是关闭了机场与火车站的离汉通道，但所有发往武汉的航班和火车也同时停运；很多途径武汉的列车虽然还在营运，但也取消了在武汉三镇的停靠。
While the January 23 "closure" announcement only closed the Han Passage from the airport to the railway station, all flights and trains to Wuhan were also suspended, and many trains to Wuhan, while still in operation, cancelled calls in Wuhan.
武汉人要想回家，只能钻各种漏洞。
Wuhan people want to go home, can only drill various loopholes.
远征 摄武汉人凌玉1月18号在武汉一家旅行社报名了“云南六日游”的旅行团，那时她对疫情的状况几乎一无所知。
An expedition to Wuhan January 18 Lingyu signed up for a tour of Yunnan's Sixth Day Tour at a travel agency in Wuhan on January 18, when she knew little about the epidemic.
她回忆说，当时她还没有戴口罩，周围也几乎没有人戴口罩，“大家都是正常地生活，没有恐慌，也没有任何不好的新闻。
She recalls that she was not wearing a mask and that almost no one around her was wearing one. "Everyone lived a normal life without panic and without any bad news.
”1月21号抵达昆明后，前两天的游玩很顺利，直到23号。
After arriving in Kunming on January 21, the first two days of the journey went smoothly until the 23rd.
“我当天一听说封城的消息，就觉得一时半会肯定是不会解除的。
"As soon as I heard the news of the cityscape that day, I felt certain it would not be broken for some time.
所以我一想，旅程结束了以后我一个人在外面待着也不是个事儿，就跟旅行社商量，看能不能提前赶回去。
So I thought it was not a big deal for me to stay out alone after the trip, so I talked to the travel agency to see if I could make it back early.
”旅行社先是给他改签了一张26号下午到长沙的机票，但困难的地方是如何从长沙回武汉。
The travel agency first changed his ticket for the afternoon of May 26 to Changsha, but the trouble was how to get back to Wuhan from Changsha.
除夕那天晚上，凌玉在丽江的酒店里没有看春晚，一直在查票。
On New Year's Eve, Ling Yu did not see the Spring Festival Gala in Lijiang's hotel, has been checking tickets.
晚上十一二点左右，旅行社突然给她发了条信息，说有一辆火车可以在武汉停靠，而且是刚刚开通的，让她马上订票，凌玉就订了。
About 11: 12 pm, the travel agency sent her a message that a train can stop in Wuhan, and is just open, let her book tickets immediately, Lingyu ordered.
订完火车票后，凌玉给导游打了电话，问她能不能改机票，改成25号中午就能飞，因为旅社帮她改签到长沙的飞机票是26号下午才能到的，而她去往武汉的火车是26号凌晨1:30的，这个行程就冲突了。
After booking the train ticket, Ling Yu called the guide and asked her if she could change her ticket to fly on the 25th noon, because the hotel would not arrive until the afternoon of the 26th and her train to Wuhan at 1: 30 am.
沟通了一晚上，旅行社也没有办法，凌玉决定自己去买火车票回家。
Communicate all night, travel agency also has no way, Ling Yu decided to buy their own train ticket home.
她先买了一张从丽江到昆明的火车票，是25号早上11：04开的。
She first bought a train ticket from Lijiang to Kunming, which opened at 11: 04 a.m. on the 25th.
但等她要买从昆明到长沙的火车票时，系统却告诉她说跟她的一个行程冲突了。
But when she wanted to buy a train ticket from Kunming to Changsha, the system told her that it was in conflict with one of her itineraries.
凌玉也不知道为什么，只好第二天早上到丽江火车站排队。
Ling Yu also did not know why, had to the next morning Lijiang train station queue.
第二天9点多到了以后，她才发现整个火车站已经爆满，原因是丽江市在前一天确诊了1例新型冠状病毒感染案例，鉴于这种情况，丽江市三大景区丽江古城、玉龙雪山、泸沽湖均发出关闭通知，从25号开始，不再对外开放。
After arriving at 9 pm the next day, she found the whole railway station was full because Lijiang had confirmed a case of a new coronavirus infection the day before. In view of this, Lijiang old city, Yulong Snow Mountain and Lugu Lake, three major scenic spots in Lijiang City, were closed to the public starting on May 25.
所以当时所有的旅客全部都跑来买票改行程。
So all the passengers came to buy tickets to change their itinerary.
到火车站一查，凌玉才知道，原来旅行社之前给她订了一张从大理到长沙的火车票，就形成了冲突，所以她又得去排队退票才能重新买票。
The train station to check, Ling Yu only know that the original travel agency to her from Dali to Changsha had a train ticket, resulting in a conflict, so she had to queue up to repurchase tickets.
因为所有人都在赶时间，凌玉一面要排队退票，又要排队买票，她说自己当时都急哭了。
Because everyone was in a hurry, Lingyu had to queue up for a refund and a ticket. She said she was crying in a hurry.
“因为没有人会让我先买，当时离开车只剩半个小时了，还好最后赶上了。
"Because no one was going to let me buy it first. It was only half an hour before I left the car.
”就这样，她从丽江转到昆明，再从昆明坐高铁到长沙，压着点赶上了凌晨开往武汉的火车。
In this way, she transferred from Lijiang to Kunming, from Kunming to Changsha by high-speed rail, pressing to catch the early morning train to Wuhan.
到家后，凌玉在“滞留外地的武汉人”的微信群里分享自己的经验，同时感慨说：“武汉三镇从来没有这么团结过。
After arriving home, Lingyu shared her experience in a group of micro-letters from "Wuhan people stranded in other places" and lamented: "Wuhan three towns have never been so united.
”但大量滞留在外的武汉人，甚至是那些从武汉回到家乡的人，他们却没办法抱团取暖，反而被排斥在了正常的社会生活之外。
But a large number of Wuhan people, even those who have returned home from Wuhan, are unable to get warm and are instead excluded from normal social life.
武汉大学中国乡村治理研究中心研究员吕德文就在《南风窗》撰文讲述了自己的经历。
Lu Devin, a researcher at Wuhan University's China Rural Governance Research Center, wrote about his experiences in Window to the South.
他和妻子回到了湖南乡下过年，也主动减少了出门次数，取消了亲戚聚会。
He and his wife returned to the countryside in Hunan to celebrate the New Year and took the initiative to reduce the number of trips and cancel relatives' parties.
但他们还是逐渐遇到了“微妙的被排斥感”，大年初一下午，吕德文的岳父母因有事上街，结果旁人看到他们都低着头，躲得远远的。
On the afternoon of the Chinese New Year's Day, Lu Wei's parents-in-law went out on business. As a result, they were seen to duck their heads and hide far away.
大年初二那天，就有熟人听到谣言打电话过来，询问他们一家是不是到医院去检查了。
On the second day of New Year's Day, some acquaintances heard rumors calling to ask if the family had gone to the hospital for an examination.
吕德文只能自嘲说：“看来，我们一家在乡亲们的眼中，怕是和瘟神差不多了。
Ludwig could only laugh at himself and said: "It seems that our family in the eyes of the villagers, I am afraid it is similar to Misery.
”推己及人，我们也很难在这种场景里责怪吕德文的乡亲们，吕德文就回复本刊说，任何一个常态社会为了维持“常态”，都会对异样的事物排斥，这是很正常的现象。
It is not unusual for a normal society to reject something different in order to maintain "normality," LWE replied, referring to the difficulty of blaming his countrymen in such a scenario.
比如悦心虽然在社交网站上发表了同情武汉游客的言论，为此还被一些网友以“圣母”之名攻击。
For example, although Yueyin published on social networking sites sympathize with Wuhan tourists, this was also attacked by some netizens in the name of "Virgin Mary."
但当我问她，如果有武汉的客人在下规定前来拜托她，说他们没有地方去了，她会愿意接待他们吗？悦心很坦诚地回答：“我们也不敢。
But when I asked her if there were Wuhan guests coming down to beg her that they had no place to go, would she be willing to receive them?
”她解释说，“因为我们客栈有5个服务人员，有两个前台阿姨。
"Because we have five attendants at the inn and two front aunts," she explained.
而大理这边的医疗条件特别差，如果大理真的感染了，外面没有来援助的话，后果真的是不堪设想”。
And Dali side of the medical conditions are particularly bad, if Dali is really infected, there is no outside assistance, the consequences are really unthinkable.
当然她随后也赶紧补充道：“如果游客他自己生病了，或者有什么危急情况，我们是愿意提供帮助的。
Of course, she hastened to add later: "If the visitor is ill himself, or if there is any crisis, we are willing to help.
”这种“两难”的心理再正常不过了。
This "dilemma" cannot be more normal.
民众们的警惕与“武汉人”的委屈都不难理解，这时候最需要、也是最有效的或许是政府出面提供一些具有可行性的解决办法。
People's vigilance and "Wuhan people" grievances are not difficult to understand, this time the most needed, but also the most effective is perhaps the government to provide some viable solutions.
为武汉甚至是湖北籍游客提供集中统一的住宿场所就是一个被广泛提到的办法。
Providing centralized accommodation for Wuhan or even Hubei tourists is a widely mentioned method.
李青霞这样的武汉人也说，如果大家对武汉人有顾虑，他们是接受被检测的，“检测后有病的就直接住院治疗，没病的就开个证明，或者把我们集中安排一个地方，让我们可以住在那里。
Wuhan people such as Li Qingxia also said that if people are concerned about Wuhan people, they are being tested, "those who are ill after the test are directly hospitalized, those who are not sick will be issued a certificate, or we will be grouped together in a place where we can live.
”另一方面，针对广泛出现的“泄露武汉返乡人员信息”的情况，我们也必须明确表示，这种行为既侵犯了公民的隐私权，也无助于防控疫情，更加剧了社会的撕裂。
On the other hand, in response to the widespread "leaks of information about Wuhan returnees," we must also make it clear that such acts not only violate citizens' right to privacy, but also do not contribute to the prevention and control of the epidemic and exacerbate the tearing apart of society.
霍布斯就在《论人性》中就说过：“发生在一个无辜人身上的苦难，也有可能发生在所有人身上。
Hobbes said in "On Human Nature": "What happens to an innocent person can happen to everyone.
”爱吃野味的中国人也绝不只集中在武汉。
The game-loving Chinese are by no means concentrated in Wuhan.
最近，网上都在称赞河南等地采取的“硬核”防护措施，确实要为这种果断而有力的行为点个赞。
Recently, the Internet has praised Henan and other places to take "hard core" protective measures, indeed for this decisive and powerful behavior.
但我们同时也想提醒大家，在这个过程中，如果能在面对武汉人的时候多一些善意和尊重，可能会更好。
But we would also like to remind you that, in the process, it may be better to show more kindness and respect towards the Wuhan people.
毕竟谁也不知道下一次可能出现的大规模疫情会爆发在哪里。
After all, no one knows where the next large-scale outbreak is likely to occur.
病毒无情，但人有情，这次我们如何对待武汉人，下一次，我们也会被以同样的方式对待。
The virus is ruthless, but people have love, this time how we treat Wuhan people, next time, we will be treated in the same way.
作者档案王梓辉可慢慢而归26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：guitumanman个人微博：汉瑟姆WANG请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Author's file, Wang Zihui can come back slowly and come back 26 minutes ago. Personal Weibo: Hantham WANG please prick me! Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # I'm on the line of the epidemic!
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
比“武汉加油”更实际的，是善待武汉人。
"Wuhan refueling" more practical, is to treat Wuhan people well.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "比“武汉加油”更实际的，是善待武汉人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "谁也不知道下一次可能出现的大规模疫情会爆发在哪里。
var msg _ desc = & quot; no one knows where the next large-scale outbreak may come.
病毒无情，但人有情，这次我们如何对待武汉人，下一次，我们也会被以同样的方式对待。
The virus is ruthless, but people have love, this time how we treat Wuhan people, next time, we will be treated in the same way.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
