在人间丨我在武汉隔离病房的14天。
14 days in Wuhan Isolation Ward.
晓光。
Xiaoguang.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品武汉的朱红一家，在过去的一个月里，经历了生离死别。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix net in the world studio produced Wuhan Zhuhong family, in the past month, experienced life and death.
身体一向很好的公公，从高烧到意外离世，只有7天。
My father-in-law, who had always been in good health, died from a high fever for only seven days.
葬礼结束的当天下午，片刻不敢耽误，朱红、婆婆、小姑子（老公的妹妹）马上到医院做了检查。
On the afternoon of the funeral, Zhu Hong, her mother-in-law and sister-in-law (husband's sister) immediately went to the hospital for a check-up.
几天前她和婆婆就开始咳嗽，随着新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情的不断加重，她心底的怀疑、不安也日渐加重。
A few days ago she and her mother-in-law began to cough, with the new coronavirus pneumonia is increasing, her heart of suspicion, unease is also growing.
到了医院，CT、查血，一切结果都显示，三人极有可能都受到了感染。
At the hospital, CT, blood tests, all the results show that the three are most likely infected.
刚刚痛失亲人的她们，不得不开始了新的“战斗”。
Just lost their loved ones, they had to start a new "fight."
1月19号，朱红被协和医院收治。
On January 19th, Zhu Hong was admitted to Concorde Hospital.
住院期间，朱红老公给他出主意，把在病房里拍的视频发在快手平台上。
In hospital, husband Zhu Hong gave him advice, the video taken in the ward in the fast-hand platform.
很快，就有人过来给她加油，还有越来越多的患者、家属过来问她，吃什么药，怎么治疗的，需要注意什么？慢慢地，朱红觉得“自己有义务说些什么”。
Soon, someone came over to cheer her up, and more and more patients and family members came to ask her what kind of medicine to take, how to treat it and what to pay attention to.
■ 金银潭医院病房前长长的走廊，拍于2月1日出院。
▪ The long corridor in front of the ward of the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was discharged on 1 February.
2月1号，朱红出院了。
On February 1, Zhu Hong was discharged from hospital.
婆婆和小姑子的病情也在逐渐好转。
Mother-in-law and sister-in-law are also getting better.
走出医院大楼的那一刻，朱红不由自主地拿出手机，对着摄像头情不自禁地喊道：重见天日的感觉，真好！以下是朱红的讲述：一我公公今年67岁，他的身体一向很好，也没有老年人常见的那些慢性病。
When she left the hospital building, Zhu Hong involuntarily took out her cell phone and shouted to the camera, It's nice to see the sun again.Here is Zhu Hong's story: My father-in-law is 67 years old, and he has always been in good health and has no chronic diseases common to old people.
1月初的时候，他开始轻微地咳嗽，不发烧，到社区医院诊断说是普通感冒，打几天头孢，就好了。
At the beginning of January he began to cough slightly, without fever, and went to the community hospital to diagnose a common cold and fight ceffor a few days.
9号那天，公公突然开始发烧，到晚上有点严重，我们立刻去武钢医院看急诊。
On the 9th, my father-in-law suddenly began to have a fever. By evening, we went to Wugang Hospital for emergency treatment.
查血的结果还好，但是CT显示双肺感染，有斑片状和磨玻璃影，就是现在很明显的那个症状。
The results of the blood tests were good, but the CT showed two lung infections, patches and glassy shadows, the symptoms that are now evident.
但他没有接触史，我们和华南海鲜市场是不同的区域，那个在汉口，我们在青山区。
But he has no contact with history, we and the South China seafood market are different regions, that in Hankou, we are in Qingshan.
他平时也不去菜市场买菜，所以压根儿就不会往那方面想。
He doesn't usually go to the vegetable market, so he doesn't think about that at all.
12号，呼吸科主任来查房，当时就说很严重，肝脏、肾脏、心脏都已经出现异常。
12, the respiratory director came to check room, at that time said very serious, liver, kidneys, heart have been abnormal.
我婆婆问主任，这到底是什么病啊？主任说，是病毒性肺炎。
My mother-in-law asked the director, what is this disease? Director said, it is viral pneumonia.
他让我婆婆赶快通知家属，准备告病危。
He told my mother-in-law to inform her family that she was dying.
这时我已经发烧4天了，有两天39度多。
By this time I had a fever for 4 days, more than 39 degrees for two days.
在医院开的口服奥司他韦，吃完温度降下来了，就以为是普通的感冒。
The oral oseltamivir in the hospital, after the temperature came down, thought it was a common cold.
接到婆婆的电话，我赶紧往医院跑。
Upon receiving a call from my mother-in-law, I rushed to the hospital.
那时我老公还在外地出差，只能靠我到处联系。
My husband was away on business, so I had to get in touch with him everywhere.
到了武钢医院，主任让我们马上往大医院转，他说现在只是刚刚开始，到高峰期还有几天的样子。
Arriving at Wuhan Iron and Steel Hospital, the director told us to transfer to the big hospital immediately. He said it was only just beginning.
最好尽快转到同济、协和、中南或者金银潭去。
Better move as soon as possible to Tongji, Concorde, Central South or Gold and Silver Pool.
事后我们才知道，当时在武钢医院呼吸科里，我公公是最严重的一个。
After the fact, we know that at that time in Wugang hospital breathing department, my father-in-law is the most serious one.
但是因为各种原因，没有转出去。
But for a variety of reasons, did not go out.
经过协商，武钢医院12号当晚把我公公转到了ICU病房，这样病人能得到更好的护理。
After consultation, Wu Gang Hospital transferred my father-in-law to the ICU ward on the night of the 12th, so that patients could receive better care.
但是转进去之后，我们就相当于跟病人隔离开来了，只有每天下午4点多，通过视频可以看一下他。
But when we turn in, we're sort of isolated from the patient, only to see him via video every afternoon at more than 4: 00 pm.
那时他状态还好，还可以把氧管拿掉，起来坐一会儿。
He was in good shape. He could take the oxygen out and sit up for a while.
一直到14号我老公赶到医院，公公的精神状况都还可以，护士说，他精神好一点了，还可以坐起来，把脚吊在床边。
By the time my husband arrived at the hospital on the 14th, my father-in-law was in good spirits, said the nurse. He could sit up and hang his feet by the bed.
17号一早，医院通知我老公，说公公有轻生的举动。
Early in the morning of the 17th, the hospital informed my husband that my father-in-law had acted lightly.
他昨晚不知怎么从病床上摔下去，呼吸变得更加困难，几乎喘不过气来。
He fell off his bed somehow last night and his breathing became more difficult and almost breathless.
等我老公赶到ICU门口，人已经开始抢救了。
By the time my husband arrived at the ICU door, people had begun to rescue him.
没想到，人在手术台上，就走了。
Unexpectedly, the person on the operating table, left.
二等忙完丧事，下葬当天下午，我就让小姑和她老公赶快带婆婆去协和医院检查。
After the funeral, I told my sister-in-law and her husband to take her to Concorde Hospital for examination.
婆婆接触公公的时间是最长的，从生病就一直在身边照顾。
Grandmother-in-law is the longest contact with father-in-law, since illness has been around to care.
而且她已经咳嗽好几天了。
And she's been coughing for days.
到了晚上，验血和CT的结果出来了，就是典型的新冠的症状。
In the evening, the results of the blood test and CT come out, which is typical of the symptoms of the new crown.
唯一没有做的是核酸检测，因为那里还没有做核酸的条件，婆婆还查出来甲流是弱阳性。
The only thing that wasn't done was nucleic acid testing, because there was no nucleic acid conditions there, mother-in-law also found that stream A was weak positive.
我也抓紧往医院赶，一拍CT，双肺感染，只不过比我婆婆稍微好一点点。
I also hurried to the hospital, a CT, two-lung infection, just a little better than my mother-in-law.
协和医院那时也是没床位，他们就不收。
Concorde Hospital was also without beds. They didn't take it.
看着发热门诊那边排的长长的队，我老公和家里其他亲戚，非常着急。
Looking at the long queue over there at the fever clinic, my husband and other relatives at home, very anxious.
他们不顾一切地冲进隔离区，跟医生说了我们家的这个情况。
They rushed desperately into the quarantine zone and told the doctor about our family.
■协和医院病房里的空气净化器，每天净化2小时。
▪ The air purifier in the hospital ward of Concorde Hospital is purified for 2 hours per day.
医生终于肯收我们了！19号，我和婆婆马上被收到隔离病区里。
The doctor is finally ready to accept us! On the 19th, my mother-in-law and I were immediately taken to the quarantine area.
当天，我老公就在朋友圈里发了信息，说我们已经被隔离治疗，请家里的亲戚朋友做好防护，密切观察自己的身体情况。
On the same day, my husband sent a message in the circle of friends that we had been isolated treatment, invited the family members and friends to protect themselves, closely observe their physical condition.
入院以后，整个心都是悬着的。
After admission, the whole heart was hanging.
那时还没有很多消息出来，到底可不可治，可不可控，都是未知数。
At that time, there was not a lot of news, after all, can not be ruled out, can not be controlled, are unknown.
再加上我公公走得太快了，我跟婆婆两个人在医院里面，真是很怕。
Besides, my father-in-law is leaving so fast that my mother-in-law and I are both in the hospital.
在协和医院临时搭建的隔离区住了两天后，协和又把一个骨科的老楼，整个一层楼全腾出来收治我们，住的条件变好一些了，我们的病情也稳定了一些。
After two days in the makeshift colony at Concorde Hospital, Concorde vacated an old orthopaedic building and an entire floor for us. Living conditions became better and our condition stabilized.
22号，我们做了核酸检测。
22, we did a nucleic acid test.
我的结果一出来，当时就确诊是被感染了，但是CT的结果比上一次略有好转。
As soon as my results came out, it was confirmed to be infected, but the CT results were slightly better than the previous one.
医生说，这就证明治疗用药都是有效的。
The doctors say this proves that all treatments are effective.
我婆婆却没有检测出来，但她的病情比我更严重，拍的片子也比之前还要严重。
My mother-in-law didn't detect it, but she was more serious than I was, and she made more serious films than before.
23号，协和通知我们要转院，说我要转去金银潭，可把我吓坏了。
'' Twenty-three, Concorde told us we were going to be transferred, and told me that I was going to transfer to the Gold and Silver Pool.
从我开始知道这个病，就了解到金银潭收治的都是最重的，都是其他医院治不了的。
From the moment I first learned about the disease, I learned that the gold and silver pools were the heaviest and could not be treated by other hospitals.
当时我很害怕，情绪也有很大的影响。
I was scared and my emotions had a big impact.
婆婆因为还没有被确诊，被转到了红十字会医院。
The mother-in-law was transferred to the Red Cross hospital because she had not been diagnosed.
医生说，就算第一次检测是阴性也不能排除不是这个病，还要看CT和查血，因为核酸检测的准确率不是那么高，病毒的隐藏性太强了。
Doctors say even negative first-time tests don't rule out the disease, but CT and blood tests because nucleic acid testing isn't so accurate and the virus is too hidden.
小姑那边，她的结果也没出。
Little sister-in-law, she didn't come out.
她是我们三个人里面发病最重的，一直在九医院接受治疗。
She is the most affected of the three of us and has been treated in Nine Hospitals.
三一个人在里面很无助，所有的情绪都要靠我自己调节。
Three people in the inside is very helpless, all emotions have to rely on my own regulation.
为了打发时间，我录了一些视频在手机里，发给我老公。
To pass the time, I recorded some videos on the phone and sent them to my husband.
我老公把视频发到了快手平台上，陆续就有一些人给我加油鼓劲！我老公通过微信发给我，他说很多人都在鼓励你，你看一下，看一下可能心情会好一些。
My husband sent the video to the fast-hand platform, and there were some people cheering me up! My husband sent me a message saying that many people were encouraging you.
后来我看到很多人有一些疑问，我就开始有针对性地录一些视频，让大家了解里面的真实情况。
Later I saw a lot of people have some questions, I began to specifically record some video, let everyone know the truth inside.
■金银潭医院病房。
▪ Gold and Silver Pool Hospital Ward.
在金银潭我们是四个人一个病房，医生要求口罩24小时戴着，无论如何不能出病房的门。
In Gold and Silver Pool we are a four-person ward and doctors require masks to be worn 24 hours a day.
房间里有机器，24小时通风换气。
There's a machine in the room, 24-hour ventilation.
大概22号的时候，政府宣布承担我们所有的费用。
About the 22nd, the government announced that it would cover all our expenses.
我们在金银潭医院的一日三餐就都由政府负责。
Our three meals a day at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital are the responsibility of the Government.
每餐有汤，有三四个菜，荤素搭配的，还会有牛奶。
Each meal has soup, three or four vegetarian dishes, plus milk.
就不用亲属再分心照顾我们吃饭的问题了。
No more distractions from caring for our meals.
病了这些天，我也在不断总结经验，以便更好地照顾自己。
Sick these days, I am also constantly summing up experience in order to better take care of themselves.
每次发烧后，会出特别多的汗。
Every time you have a fever, you sweat a lot.
衣服湿了我马上就换干的衣服，湿哒哒的衣服贴在身上，会加重病情。
When my clothes get wet, I change my clothes quickly. My wet cloths stick to my body, which will aggravate my condition.
我还按医生的嘱咐，有意识地喝特别多的水，让自己多排汗多排尿。
I also follow the doctor's instructions, consciously drink extra water, so that more sweat and more urine.
但水一定要喝温水，不能喝凉水。
But you must drink warm water, not cold water.
得这个病，还会口干口苦，恶心，呕吐，人会非常非常没有胃口，一点东西都不想吃。
This disease, but also dry mouth bitter, nausea, vomiting, people will be very, very hungry, do not want to eat anything.
但是再难受，我都会强迫自己吃很大一碗饭。
But no matter how hard it was, I would force myself to eat a large bowl of rice.
我知道病毒在侵蚀我的肌体，如果身体不具备与病毒搏斗的能力，如果我自己没有足够的意志力，用再好的药都没有用。
I know the virus is eating away at my body, and no amount of medicine can do it if the body doesn't have the strength to fight it, if I don't have enough willpower myself.
自己垮了，神仙也救不了你！Play■老公为我录视频加油。
I broke down, the immortal can not save you! Play: Husband for me to record the video refueling.
25号，大年初一，老公特意跑来给我送鸡汤。
No. 25, New Year's Day, my husband came to give me chicken soup.
他在视频里跟我讲：老婆，等我，我给你送鸡汤来了！他说这个病没有特效药，自己的抵抗力是最关键的。
He told me in the video: Wife, wait for me, I sent you chicken soup! He said this disease has no specific medicine, his resistance is the most critical.
你要加油！加油！那罐鸡汤，我是用勺子一点一点喝完的，每一滴都是家人带给我的温暖。
You have to refuel! Come on! That can of chicken soup, I drink it bit by bit with a spoon, every drop is my family brought me warmth.
人在医院里面，我最担心的还是我的家人。
In the hospital, my family is what worries me the most.
老人啊，孩子啊，他们才是易感人群。
Old people, kids. They're the ones who are susceptible.
很担心他们再出事情。
I'm worried they're gonna make it.
幸运地是，除了婆婆，小姑和我，家里的其他亲友，后来确认都没有被感染。
Fortunately, except my mother-in-law, sister-in-law and I, the rest of the family, later confirmed that they were not infected.
这是让我最欣慰的了。
That's the most comforting thing I've ever seen.
四在医院里，每天看到最多的，就是一线的医护人员太辛苦了，完全超负荷地工作。
Four in the hospital, see the most every day, is the front-line medical staff too hard, completely overworked.
他们说是4个小时一个班，但如果后面的人没有防护服，或者临时有人员调整，没有人过来接班，那前一个就不能下班。
They said it was a four-hour shift, but if the latter did not have protective clothing or if there were temporary adjustments and no one came to take over, the former would not be able to leave.
病人要打针换药，有不舒服的，有这样那样的需求，里面的医护人员就一刻都不能停地忙来忙去。
Patients have to be injected to change medicine, there is uncomfortable, there are so many needs, the medical staff inside can not stop busy.
这个不像平时普通住院，还有一两个陪护的家属，缓解医护人员的工作量。
Unlike the usual number of hospitalizations, there are one or two accompanying family members to ease the workload of medical staff.
现在包括送饭、清理垃圾，打扫卫生、照顾病人起居，完全都是医护人员在做，无形中增加了他们很多的工作量和风险。
It now includes food delivery, garbage removal, cleaning, and personal care, all done by health care workers, which increases their workload and risks.
没有亲身经历，真的体会不到他们的难处。
Without first-hand experience, I really can't feel their difficulties.
在危难关头，他们每一个人都是斗士！我们病房一个婆婆，总是到处丢纸，随地吐痰，任你怎么说，她还是这样。
In a crisis, each of them is a fighter! A mother-in-law in our ward, always dropping papers, spitting everywhere, whatever you say, she is still like this.
有个小护士拿了垃圾袋给她，让她自己装一下，或者往袋子里吐，说你这样到处吐，会影响其他病人，出现交叉感染的。
A little nurse gave her a garbage bag and told her to pack it up or spit it out, saying that if you vomit like this, you'll affect other patients and cross-infect her.
但是那个婆婆完全不听。
But the mother-in-law wouldn't listen.
有一天早上6点多钟，我迷迷糊糊的，就看见有个小护士，蹲在那儿，一点一点地把地上的脏纸全部收拾好，拿出去了。
One morning at more than six o'clock, I was in a daze and saw a little nurse squatting there, picking up all the dirty paper on the floor and taking it out.
■病房护士正在仔细地检查吊瓶的滴速。
▪ The nurse in the ward is carefully checking the speed of the bottle.
护士们都很年轻，很多都是90后、95后，她们难道不怕吗？有的进来给我们扎针的时候，手都在抖。
Nurses are very young, many after 90, 95, they are not afraid of it? Some come in to give us needle, the hand is shaking.
但她还是在做。
But she's still doing it.
有一个护士，个子矮矮的，稍有点胖，她每次进来，一边垫着脚去够那个很高的点滴杆，一边还会跟我们说，等一下啊，我马上就好了。
There was a nurse, short and a little stout, who would come in with her feet to reach the tall drip-stick and tell us, Wait a minute, I'll be right back.
很照顾我们的情绪。
Take care of our moods.
给我们打热水的时候，她会很细心地给每个人的水瓶编号，保证我们不交叉使用。
When she brings us hot water, she gives everyone's water bottle number carefully to make sure we don't cross-use it.
还会把瓶里凉了的水倒掉，全部换上热水，免得我们喝了受凉。
We also pour out the cold water from the bottle and replace it with hot water so that we don't get cold.
她拿回来的水瓶，每次瓶口都是冲洗干净的。
The water bottle she brought back was rinsed clean every time.
这些细节我看在眼里，心里特别地感动。
I was particularly moved to see the details.
可她穿着那个隔离服，我到现在都不知道她长什么样子。
But she's wearing that quarantine dress, And I don't even know what she looks like.
五29号这天，金银潭医院一位80多岁的老奶奶出院了，这个消息真的很振奋人心！大家都很受鼓舞，我的心情也轻松了很多。
On May 29th, an 80-year-old granny from the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was discharged from the hospital.
我开始有针对性地拍一些视频，把每顿吃的饭，每天吃的药，都拍下来给大家看，把需要注意的地方都讲给大家听，希望能给大家一些帮助。
I began to take some targeted video, every meal, every day to take medicine, take a picture of everyone, the need to pay attention to all the places, hope to give everyone some help.
2月1号，医生通知我，我的两次核酸检验呈阴性，连续三天不发烧，可以出院了！医生给我开了止咳的药，嘱咐我回去跟社区联系，如果病情有反复，社区会安排后续的治疗。
On February 1, my doctor told me that I had been tested negative for two nucleic acid tests and had not had a fever for three days before I was discharged from the hospital.
随着感染的人数不断增多，医院床位不够的问题非常突出。
As the number of infected persons continues to increase, the shortage of hospital beds is acute.
我想，我也要尽快出院，把床位让给更需要的人。
I want to get out of the hospital as soon as possible and give up my bed to someone who needs it more.
我现在回想，这个病如果从开始就注意了，应该是可以防护的。
I now recall that the disease could have been prevented if it had been noted from the beginning.
我因为之前有感冒发烧，所以到医院给公公送饭时，一直戴着口罩。
I had a fever because I had a cold before, so I went to the hospital to deliver meals to my father-in-law, wearing a mask.
后来我女儿，我父母，都跟我有过接触，但他们都没有被传染。
Then my daughter, my parents, had contact with me, but they weren't infected.
我想这就说明这是可以防护的。
I think that means it's defensible.
但是疫情开始的时候，没有人把它的重要性说出来，也没有有效地去指导病人，才造成很大范围的传染。
But when the epidemic began, no one spoke of its importance, and no effective guidance was given to the patient, causing widespread infection.
另外，恐慌正在阻碍医疗资源的合理分配，导致很多需要救治的人得不到及时有效的治疗。
Moreover, panic is hampering the rational allocation of health-care resources, leaving many people in need without timely and effective treatment.
只要救治及时，这个病应该是不会直接导致死亡的。
As long as the treatment is timely, the disease should not directly lead to death.
我公公走得太突然了，如果再晚几天，很多情况就会不一样。
My father-in-law left so suddenly that many things would have been different if he had been a few days later.
人们在对病毒认识不清的时候，就会恐慌，而恐慌，会让我们犯更大的错。
People panic when they don't know the virus, and panic makes us make bigger mistakes.
现在网上一传什么药、什么防护用品有效，马上就疯抢。
Now what medicine online, what protection supplies are effective, immediately seized madly.
真正有病的人买不到，但是其他人抢了囤在家里干什么呢？我真的希望大家不要那么恐慌，要相信自己！因为面对人间疾苦，我们只能向前冲！新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in a quarantined area, please contact the ruler of the world (zairenjianliving) if you want to tell the true story of the epidemic whether you are a frontline medical worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, or a person who has been cured of an epidemic.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨我在武汉隔离病房的14天。
14 days in Wuhan Isolation Ward.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨我在武汉隔离病房的14天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; at least 14 days in the Wuhan isolation ward;
var msg_desc = "面对人间疾苦，我们只能向前冲！";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间 | 从湖北13个县市，送300个医护人员回武汉抗疫',。
At & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（三）：4个离家和回家的故事',。
Ritual: & amp; # 39; & # 45; Imaged Diary into the World; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
