封城后，接到母亲的病危通知书。
After sealing the city, received the mother's notice of critical illness.
张舒婷。
Zhang Shuting.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，武汉等地相继封城，住在孝感的林琪接到七旬母亲的病危通知书。
After the outbreak of the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, Wuhan and other places have been closed, living in the sense of filial piety Lin Qi received the 70-year-old mother's notification of critical illness.
为了见到母亲并安排救治，林琪先后三次启程回汉川市老家，穿越重重关卡，80公里路走了10天。
In order to see her mother and arrange for treatment, Linqi returned to her hometown of Hanchuan three times, through many roadblocks, 80 km walk for 10 days.
最终，女儿见到了重症监护室里的母亲。
Eventually, the daughter met the mother in the intensive care unit.
这是真实故事计划第547个故事故事时间：2020年故事地点：孝感、汉川1月25日，下午2点，准备午睡的林琪听到了电话铃响，来电者是父亲林华晖。
2007-9-25 21: 48 Filial piety, Hanchuan January 25, 2: 00 p.m., the afternoon nap of the Linqi heard the telephone rang, the caller is father Lin Huahui.
林琪正和丈夫在湖北孝感的公公家过春节，前一晚除夕，她才向住在汉川的父母亲拜过年。
Lingqi and her husband in Hubei filial piety of the Spring Festival, the eve of the New Year, she only live in Hanchuan parents worship the New Year.
电话那头，父亲的声音有些急躁：“林琪，快打个电话给你妈。
At the other end of the line, my father's voice was a little edgy: "Lynch, give your mother a call.
”不待林琪反应，他继续说道，“她几天不肯吃饭了，你劝劝她。
"Without waiting for the reaction," he continued, "she won't eat for days.
”想到母亲的病情，林琪立即发起视频邀请。
"Thinking of her mother's illness, Lingqi immediately launched a video invitation.
几秒钟后，母亲张慧文的脸庞出现在了屏幕上，脸颊两边高高肿起。
Seconds later, her mother, Huiwen Zhang's face appeared on the screen, her cheeks swelled up on both sides.
母亲回应说“我很好，没什么事”，声音像从水缸里传出来。
"My mother replied," I'm fine, nothing's wrong, "and her voice sounded like it was coming out of a water jar.
母亲今年70岁了，4年前母亲夜半腹痛，送急诊出院后，林琪询问母亲，得到的回复也是“没什么事”。
Her mother, 70 years old, four years ago her mother abdominal pain, sent out of the emergency, Linqi asked her mother, the response is also "nothing.
这句话，让林琪心里响了警钟，她认定母亲肯定出了大事。
This sentence, let the heart of the Linqi alarm bell, she decided that the mother must be something important.
流着泪，她叮嘱母亲一定要按时吃饭，母亲点点头。
Tearful, she told her mother to eat regularly, her mother nodded.
林琪决定回汉川老家。
Lingqi decided to return to her hometown of Hanchuan.
老家距离孝感80余公里，平常也一个多小时路程。
Home is more than 80 kilometers away from filial piety, usually more than an hour away.
可眼下，新冠肺炎疫情严峻，1月24日24：00起，孝感已经封城，车辆无法出去。
But now, the new crown pneumonia, January 24 at 24: 00, filial piety has been closed, vehicles can not go out.
母亲张慧文几天来食欲不振，日夜卧床，又怕去医院感染新型肺炎病毒，就决心在家硬扛。
Mother Zhang Huiwen a few days of loss of appetite, day and night in bed, and afraid to go to the hospital infected with the new pneumonia virus, determined to hard-shoulder.
为了让女儿放心，她还特地扒了几口饭，拍了照片。
In order to reassure her daughter, she also specially a few mouthfuls of rice, took photos.
可是，林华晖却在垃圾篓的纸巾里发现了血迹，张慧文搪塞说是流了鼻血。
However, Lin Huahui in the waste basket in the paper towel found traces of blood, Zhang Huiwen enamel said is a bleeding nose.
等到大年初三，晚上11点多，林华晖被一阵剧烈的咳嗽声惊醒。
Waiting until the New Year's Day, 11: 00 p.m., Lin Huahui was awakened by a fierce cough.
他赶紧起身，拿来盆，绕到床的另一侧，搁在张慧文身下。
He quickly got up, fetched the basin, wound it to the other side of the bed, and put it under Zhang Hui tattoos.
看到妻子呕出的混合物，林华晖心里一沉，是黑色的。
See his wife vomit out of the mixture, Lin Huahui heart a heavy, is black.
一晚上，张慧文吐了五次。
One night, Zhang Huiwen vomited five times.
天亮后，张慧文到镇上的医院查血常规，拍胸片和照脊椎。
After daybreak, Zhang Huiwen went to the town's hospital for blood tests, chest films and spinal photographs.
报告显示，张慧文的肺部没有问题，体温正常，但颈椎有异，医生怀疑是中风前兆，建议迅速送往汉川的上级医院。
Zhang's lungs were fine and his temperature was normal, but the cervical spine was different. Doctors suspected it to be a sign of a stroke.
医生警示说，脑中风如果处理不当，可能引发脑梗，有死亡的风险。
Doctors warned that a stroke, if not handled properly, could trigger a cerebral infarction with a risk of death.
可疫情之下，汉川市内的救护车全被征用，医院没有车可以派到镇上接人，小镇也受到交通管制，私家车不能随意出镇，镇上医院也无法接收。
Under the epidemic situation, ambulances were requisitioned, hospitals had no cars to send to meet people in the town, traffic control was imposed on the town, private cars were not allowed out of the town and the town hospital could not receive them.
输了液后，张慧文只能带着医生开的消炎药，被迫回家观察。
After losing the liquid, Zhang Huiwen can only take the doctor prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs, forced home to observe.
得知母亲病重，林琪心急如焚，她必须赶回汉川将母亲送医。
Knowing that her mother was seriously ill, Lingqi was so anxious that she had to go back to Hanchuan to see her mother.
林琪和丈夫出了家门，开着车尝试突破封锁。
Lingqi and her husband left the house and drove to try to break the blockade.
父亲年纪大了，心思糊涂，几年前已不能独自搭火车，在林琪看来，他更无力处理现在的危机情况。
His father is old, confused, and a few years ago was no longer able to take the train alone, in Lingqi, he is even less able to deal with the current crisis situation.
母亲需要她在身边。
Mother needs her around.
母亲已经是中风前兆，必须要送医救治。
The mother is already a forerunner of stroke and must be treated.
可现在孝感却围困着林琪，高铁火车站、高速等离开市辖区的通道全部关闭。
But now filial piety is surrounded by Lingqi, high-speed railway stations, high-speed access to leave the municipal district all closed.
以往四通八达的城市，现在已经隔离成一座孤岛。
What used to be a well-connected city is now isolated into an island.
林琪和丈夫试图找到防控体系的薄弱点，车开上国道不久就碰上了人为把守的关卡，只好绕行走小路。
Lingqi and her husband tried to find weaknesses in the control system. Shortly after driving onto the National Highway, they ran into man-made roadblocks.
等到了小路上，虽然没有人值守，却碰到了各种围栏路障，还遇上了横停道路的车辆。
When we reached the lane, though no one was on duty, we came across various barricades and cars on the side of the road.
像无头苍蝇般，开开停停，最后，只得原路折返。
Like headless flies, open and stop, finally, had to turn back the original road.
再度回到家里，林琪只能守着手机，眼巴巴地看疫情防控等信息。
Back home again, Lingqi can only watch the mobile phone, eyeball epidemic prevention and control information.
到了饭点，林琪就急忙给母亲打过去，看她是否吃得下饭，母亲也装着样子吃一些。
When it was time to eat, Lingqi hurried to call her mother to see if she could eat, her mother pretended to eat some.
张慧文身体稳定的假象，在2月1日彻底坍塌：她吞不下一点食物了。
The illusion of Zhang Huiwen's stability collapsed on February 1: she couldn't swallow any more food.
林琪拿着手机，拨打医院的急救电话，得到的还是焦灼的拒绝。
Lingqi took the mobile phone, called the hospital emergency phone, or get anxious refusals.
无奈下，林琪发了条微博，向陌生人求助，她的粉丝数只有四百多，这时，也是无用之用了。
But Lin Qi sent a micro-blog, to ask for help from strangers, her fan count of only 400, at this time, is also useless.
林琪没有想到的是，一位网友留下了汉川市人民医院院长的号码，她也联系上了小镇的防疫指挥部，事情出现转机。
What Lin Qi did not think is, a netizen left the number of the director of the people's hospital in Hanchuan, she also contacted the cordon of epidemic prevention in the small town, things changed.
社区的工作人员找到了家里，确认了母亲病危的事实。
The community workers found the home and confirmed the fact that the mother was dying.
林华晖来到防疫指挥部办通行证，同时等待女儿联系车辆的消息。
Lin Huahui came to the epidemic prevention command to do pass, while waiting for the daughter to contact the vehicle news.
下午4点左右，得知了车牌号，他把它填在通行证上。
At about 4 p.m., he learned the number of the car and put it on his pass.
拿着证，林华晖赶回家，和张慧文一起上了车，奔向汉川市人民医院。
Holding the certificate, Lin Huahui rushed home, and Zhang Huiwen together on the car, rushed to the Hanchuan People's Hospital.
一切顺利的话，半小时后他们就能抵达二十多公里外的医院。
If all goes well, they will reach the hospital more than twenty kilometers away in half an hour.
但路上关卡重重，下车检查登记，耽搁了一些时间。
However, there were heavy roadblocks and delays in getting off and checking registration.
5点多，他们才到了目的地。
It was more than five o'clock before they reached their destination.
进医院后，张慧文首先拍了胸部CT，然后依次做了肾功能、肝功能等检查。
After entering the hospital, Zhang Huiwen first took a chest CT, and then did kidney function, liver function and so on.
等到晚间23时20分，因高血压、中度贫血、肾功能异常、高钾血症，医院对张慧文发下了病危通知书：“患者目前病情危重，随时可能发生呼吸心脏骤停而危急生命。
By 23: 20 p.m., because of hypertension, moderate anemia, abnormal kidney function, hyperkalemia, the hospital issued a notice of critical illness to Zhang Huiwen: "The patient is in critical condition and life is at risk from sudden cardiac arrest.
”张慧文的血钾高达7.3，这个数字意味着她必须尽快做透析，否则随时有生命危险，但此时医院暂无可供她使用的透析设备，只能联系转院。
Zhang's blood potassium is 7.3, which means she must undergo dialysis as soon as possible or risk her life, but dialysis equipment is temporarily unavailable and can only be transferred to hospital.
林华晖乱了分寸，医生和他商量治疗方案，他 “什么都搞不清楚”，只好不停给女儿林琪打电话。
Lin Huahui confusion, the doctor and he discussed the treatment plan, he "nothing clear", had to constantly call her daughter, Lingqi.
护士们立即将张慧文推进重症监护室，插上了呼吸机，家属不能探视。
The nurses immediately wheeled Zhang Huiwen into the intensive care unit, inserted a ventilator, and the family could not visit him.
被留在室外的林华晖，看不见妻子，担心她一个人在里面孤单，责怪女儿：“为什么要把你妈妈送进去？”林华晖坚持认为，自己应该陪在妻子身边。
Lin Huahui, left outdoors, couldn't see his wife, worried that she was alone in the inside, blaming her daughter: "Why send your mother in?" Lin Huahui insisted that he should stay with his wife.
病危通知下来，林琪第二次出发了。
When she was in critical condition, Lingqi set off for the second time.
根据孝感的规定，持病危通知书的家属，具有通关的资格。
According to filial piety, the family members holding the notice of critical illness are eligible for customs clearance.
林琪在手机上收到了母亲病危通知书的照片，这成了护佑她通关的令牌。
Lin Qi on the mobile phone received the mother's critically ill notification of the photos, which became the guardian of her customs clearance token.
林琪和丈夫选择了经过武汉的路线，它用时最少。
Lin Qi and her husband chose the route through Wuhan, it took the least time.
如果不出意外，70分钟后，林琪就能和父亲见面。
If nothing happens, in 70 minutes, Lynch will be able to meet her father.
每到一个关卡，林琪都要冷静地陈述母亲生命垂危的事实，拿出病危通知书的照片，给陌生的工作人员确认，一遍又一遍。
At each level, Lingqi calmly state the fact that the mother's life is in danger, take out the pictures of the critically ill notification, confirm to the unknown staff, again and again.
林琪没想到，自己也会成为阻碍的一部分。
Lingqi did not expect that they will also become a part of the obstruction.
在一次通关例行量体温时，她的体温爬到了37.0℃。
During a routine temperature check at customs, her temperature climbed to 37.0 ℃.
如果体温异常，就不能通过关卡。
If you have an abnormal temperature, you can't pass the checkpoint.
工作人员让林琪站在车旁冷静一下。
The staff stood Lingqi beside the car to calm down.
三分钟后，林琪忐忑地再测了一次，一看数值，体温下降，林琪急忙上车，继续前进。
Three minutes later, Lingqi perturbed to take another test, a look at the value, temperature drop, Linqi rushed into the car, continued to move.
到了武汉边界，病危通知书却失效了。
At the Wuhan border, the notification of critical illness lapsed.
工作人员收到的指令是严防死守，即使有病危通知书，武汉也只许进不许出。
Staff members received instructions to guard strictly, even if there is a notice of critical illness, Wuhan is only allowed to enter and leave.
林琪和丈夫当即更改路线，不经过武汉，往云梦县的方向去汉川。
Lin Qi and her husband immediately changed the route, not through Wuhan, to the direction of Yunmeng County to Hanchuan.
林琪和丈夫没有说话，车内一片寂静，连手机铃声也没有。
Lingqi and her husband did not speak, the car was silent, even the phone ring tone.
此时，没有消息就是最好的消息。
At this point, no message is the best news.
虽然绕了远路，但接下来没有遇到阻碍。
It was a long way around, but it didn't get in the way.
万籁俱寂，凌晨3点半，地图显示，再通过一座桥就来到汉川地界。
Profound silence, 3: 30am, the map shows that through a bridge to the Hanchuan border.
接近桥头的时候，林琪隐约意识到不对劲。
As she neared the bridge, Lingqi faintly realized that something was wrong.
小路没有路灯，一片黑暗中，车灯照亮了前方的障碍物：不是人为控制的栏杆，而是一堆半米来高的土块。
There were no streetlights, and in the darkness the headlights lit up the barrier in front of them: not artificial railing, but a pile of earth half a metre high.
通知书、语言、车辆在没有生命的土块前统统失效，绝望感淹没了林琪。
Notices, words, and vehicles all lapse in front of lifeless clods, and a sense of hopelessness overwhelms Lingqi.
母亲躺在重症监护室的事实，就像颗定时炸弹，她不知道时间给自己留有多少余地。
The fact that the mother was lying in intensive care was like a time bomb, and she did not know how much time left for herself.
母亲一直是林琪最强大的依靠。
Mother has always been Lynch's strongest support.
林琪记得，很多年前，她半夜做梦嚎啕大哭，醒来的时候发现妈妈竟然靠在床边，像拍打小孩一样轻轻拍着她的背，不停轻柔地说：“不要怕，不要怕，妈妈在。
She wakes up to find her mother leaning on the bed, patting her back like a child, and saying gently, "Don't be afraid, don't be afraid, Mom is there.
”那时，林琪难过的心情一下就被抚平，但现在，母亲一个人被孤单地留在重症监护室，作为女儿，她却连握着母亲的手都做不到。
Back then, Lingqi's sad mood was soothed, but now the mother was left alone in the intensive care unit, and as a daughter she could not even hold her mother's hand.
第二次原路返回孝感，林琪像根棍子般挺在家里的床上。
The second way back to filial piety, like a stick Lingqi straight in the home bed.
将手机握在手里，林琪一面将音量开到最大，一面又害怕铃声突然响起，传来噩耗。
Holding the phone in her hand, Lingqi turned the volume up to the maximum while fearing the sudden sound of the bell and bad news.
睁着眼，只希望天快点亮。
Open your eyes and hope the day will soon light up.
熬到6点多，林琪立刻拨通医生的电话，商量转院透析的方案。
By six o'clock or so, Lingqi dialed the doctor immediately to discuss the plan for the hospital dialysis.
汉川市内没有医院接收，只能跨市转院，需要家属自行联系。
Hanchuan City no hospital reception, can only be transferred across the city, the need for family contact.
以往情况，汉川的患者会往邻近的武汉转，但此时武汉没有多余的医疗资源，林琪准备将母亲转到她所在的孝感。
In the past, Hanchuan patients will turn to the neighboring Wuhan, but at this time Wuhan has no surplus medical resources, Lingqi is ready to transfer her mother to her place of filial piety.
相隔两地，林琪和母亲的命运却被绑定，此时她的每一个电话，都将影响母亲的生死。
Two places apart, the fate of Lingqi and her mother is bound, at this time her every phone call, will affect the life and death of the mother.
从网络上，林琪搜集到了几家医院的电话，首先联系了孝感中心医院、孝感一医院，可它们都不接收病人。
From the network, Lin Qi collected several hospital phone, first contact filial piety central hospital, filial piety a hospital, but they do not accept patients.
每次拨通电话，林琪都要重新说明情况，如同机器，重复到后面，“像在陈述别人的故事”。
Every time I dial the phone, Lingqi restates the situation, like a machine, and repeats, "It's like telling someone else's story."
她又拨打了孝感中医院的电话，对方反馈可以接受转院，却做不了血管通路，而肾衰竭病人需要先做血管通路才能进行透析。
She also made a call to Filial Piety Chinese Hospital, where the callback was acceptable, but not a blood vessel, and patients with kidney failure needed a vascular access to get dialysis.
如此一来，林琪的联系清单上，就只剩下一家航天医院。
As a result, the only space-faring hospital left on Lynch's contact list.
可那一会，航天医院的电话一直接不通。
But that moment, the space hospital's telephone a direct connection.
如同被困在隧道，林琪在微博上无望地写下：“请给我一个指示告诉我接下来怎么办。
As if trapped in a tunnel, Lingqi hopelessly wrote on the microblog: "Please give me a direction to tell me what to do next.
”此时是2月2日7点48分，距离母亲进重症监护室已过去8小时。
It was 7: 48 on February 2, eight hours after the mother was admitted to intensive care.
9点多，林华晖徘徊在重症监护室外。
More than 9: 00, Lin Huahui lingered outside the intensive care unit.
妻子病危，焦灼的他却帮不上忙。
His wife was dying and he was anxious but he could not help.
医生都直接与林琪联系，林华晖也在等女儿的电话。
Doctors are in direct contact with Linqi Lin Huahui is also waiting for her daughter to call.
虽然重症病人的家属，在走廊上有单独的床位，但林华晖顾虑妻子，没能好好休息。
Although the family of the seriously ill had separate beds in the corridor, Lin Huahui worried about his wife and did not have a good rest.
林琪告诉父亲，湖北航天医院愿意接收病人，同时，汉川这边的医院也联系了医疗部，可以挪一台设备在床边透析。
Lin Qi told her father that Hubei Space Hospital was willing to accept patients, while the hospital on this side of Hanchuan contacted the medical department and could move a piece of equipment for dialysis by bed.
考虑到张慧文的身体状况，林华晖和林琪没有办理转院。
Considering Zhang Huiwen's physical condition, Lin Huahui and Lin Qi did not transfer to hospital.
中午12点多，林华晖在确诊尿毒症的文件上签下字，张慧文做上了透析。
12: 00 noon, Lin Huahui in the diagnosis of uremia on the document signed, Zhang Huiwen did dialysis.
8个小时后，第一次透析完成，林华晖买了八宝粥、牛奶，托护士送进去，听说张慧文吃了点，他悬着的心稍微放下一些。
Eight hours later, the first dialysis completed, Lin Huahui bought porridge, milk, entrusted nurses to send in, I heard that Zhang Huiwen ate a little, his heart hanging a little lower.
张慧文的血钾含量回归正常值，肌酐从1897下降到了709，林华晖并不理解指标的含义，他只能从日常点滴里，掌握妻子脱险的信息。
Zhang Huiwen returned to normal blood potassium content, creatinine from 1897 to 709, Lin Huahui did not understand the meaning of the indicators, he can only from the daily drops, his wife escaped the danger information.
2月3日，当母亲进行第二次透析时，林琪终于出了孝感。
On February 3, when her mother had a second dialysis, Lingqi finally showed filial piety.
依次联系居委会、街道办、区指挥部后，她总算拿到可经过武汉的证明，再次开车上路。
Contacts the neighborhood committee in turn, the street office, the district command post, she finally got can pass Wuhan's certificate, drive again on the road.
一向车水马龙的道路，此时空空荡荡，林琪转头问丈夫：“我们像不像生活在灾难片里？”通过重重关卡，下午2点多，林琪和丈夫终于赶到汉川市人民医院。
The road has been busy, now empty, Lingqi turned her head to ask her husband: "Do we not live in a disaster film?" Through the barrier, more than 2: 00 p.m., Lin Qi and her husband finally arrived at the Hanchuan People's Hospital.
张慧文当时还在透析，靠近监护室门口，林琪感觉自己听到了母亲的咳嗽声。
Zhang Huiwen was still on dialysis, near the door of the intensive care unit, and Lingqi felt she heard her mother cough.
林琪决定，由丈夫送父亲回家，自己留在医院陪护。
Lingqi decided that her husband would take her father home and stay with him in the hospital.
6点多，护士进重症监护室为病人换药，没关门，消毒水的气味散了出来。
More than 6: 00, nurses into the intensive care unit for patients, did not close the door, the smell of disinfectant came out.
透过两扇门的缝隙，看到了坐在床上的母亲，林琪马上喊了声“妈”，张慧文听到了，眼睛转了过来。
Through the gap between the two doors, saw the mother sitting on the bed, Lingqi immediately called "mother," Zhang Huiwen heard, eyes turned over.
林琪继续说：“妈你要吃饭的。
"Lingqi continued:" Mom you want to eat.
”张慧文应道：“让你不要回来，为什么非要回来？”她还在担心医院人多，感染风险大。
"Tell you not to come back, why do you have to come back?" She was also worried about the large number of people in the hospital and the high risk of infection.
护士关上门，短暂的对话中断了。
The nurse closed the door and the brief conversation broke off.
过了会，林琪接到父亲电话：“你妈妈一直打我电话找你。
After the meeting, Lingqi received a phone call from her father: "Your mother has been calling me for you.
”林琪赶紧给母亲拨过去。
"Lingqi hurriedly dialed her mother.
原来看见她来了，张慧文急着要出院，跟林琪说“我挺好的”。
Originally saw her coming, Zhang Huiwen anxious to leave the hospital, and said with the Lingqi "I am very good."
母亲还得待在重症监护室，即使一切顺利，之后每两周，她也需要做五次透析来维持生命，从此离不开医院。
The mother had to stay in intensive care and, even if all went well, she needed dialysis five times every two weeks to keep her alive and needed a hospital ever since.
林琪后悔不已，母亲对她从没有任何要求，成年后，她只带母亲出去旅行过三次。
Lingqi remorse, her mother has never asked for her, as an adult, she only took her mother to travel three times.
在医院里，林琪才得知4年前母亲那次急诊的真相，其实是慢性肾病，需要及时治疗，延缓尿毒症的到来，但母亲害怕给她添麻烦，没有倾吐过自己有任何不舒服。
In the hospital, Lin Qi only learned the truth about her mother's emergency 4 years ago, is in fact a chronic kidney disease, need timely treatment to delay the arrival of uremia, but her mother is afraid to give her trouble, did not pour out any discomfort.
晚上，林琪戴着口罩睡在走廊的病床上。
At night, Lingqi sleeps in a bed in the hallway wearing a mask.
突然，监护室中一位老人生命指标不好，已经昏迷，护士询问睡在林琪隔壁床上的家属：“继续抢救还是放弃治疗？”听到这句话，林琪再次体会到，死亡离自己如此之近。
Suddenly, an old man in the intensive care unit was unconscious, and the nurse asked the family sleeping next door to Lingqi, "Keep saving or give up treatment?"
母亲躺在重症监护室，林琪意识到自己没办法劝别人“尊重病人的选择”，她害怕母亲告诉她“我真的很辛苦”。
Lying in the intensive care unit, Lingqi realized that she could not persuade others to "respect the patient's choice." She was afraid that her mother would tell her, "I'm really hard."
第二天，医院又来了位病危病人，将母亲从ICU转到了普通病房。
The next day, a critically ill patient arrived and her mother was transferred from the ICU to the general ward.
10点多，林琪终于近距离看到了母亲，她吸着氧气，脖子上插着透析管。
More than 10 o'clock, Lingqi finally close to see her mother, she inhaled oxygen, a dialysis tube inserted in her neck.
林琪发现母亲的脸庞，比之前浮肿得更厉害。
Lingqi found her mother's face, more swollen than before.
林琪紧紧握住母亲的手，问：“有没有哪里不舒服？” 张慧文摇了摇头，像往常一样否认。
"Is there anything wrong?" Zhang Huiwen shook her head, denying it as usual.
但其实每次透析，都需要从颈边的置管，先抽出两管血。
But in fact, every time dialysis, need from the jugular side of the tube, first draw out two tubes of blood.
鲜红的血液从管子里流过，体内的毒素跟随水分离开她的身体，呕吐、昏睡都是透析后的常见反应。
Bright red blood flowed through the tube, toxins left her body following the water, and vomiting and lethargy were common reactions after dialysis.
张慧文劝女儿：“人生都有这一遭，你不要哭。
Zhang Huiwen advised her daughter: "Life has this experience, you do not cry.
”坐着坐着，她就睡着了，不停地讲梦话，手挥舞着不知道想抓住什么。
"Sitting there, she fell asleep and kept talking in her sleep, her hands waving and not knowing what to catch.
等母亲睡熟一点，林琪轻轻把护理床放平，盖好被子。
Wait for the mother to sleep a little, Lingqi gently put the bed of care flat, cover a good quilt.
站在床边，林琪贪婪地听着母亲的呼吸声。
Standing by the bed, Lingqi greedily listened to her mother's breathing.
这一刻，她像挣脱压力的弹簧，松弛开来。
At this moment she loosened like a spring free from pressure.
焦灼了10天后，终于回到母亲身边。
After ten days of anxiety, I finally returned to my mother.
*文中林琪、林华晖、张慧文为化名。
* Linqi, Lin Huahui and Zhang Huiwen are aliases.
- END -撰文| 张舒婷编辑| 雷磊。
- END-article and # 124; Zhang Shu Ting, editor and deputy director Lei Lei.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
封城后，接到母亲的病危通知书。
After sealing the city, received the mother's notice of critical illness.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "封城后，接到母亲的病危通知书";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; after her mother's death notice.
var msg_desc = "80公里路，走了10天。
var msg _ desc = & quot; 80 km, a 10-day walk.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
