俞敏洪的13篇疫情日记：李文亮去世，痛哭半小时。
Yu Minhong 13 epidemic diary: Li Wenliang died, crying for half an hour.
冯超。
Feng Chao.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：冯超来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）那天晚上，新东方创始人俞敏洪和很多网友一样，等待着李文亮的消息。
Author: Feng Chaoyuan: ID: biz-leaders that night, New Oriental founder Yu Minhong and many netizens, waiting for the news of Li Wenliang.
等到凌晨一点，太疲惫，就睡着了。
Wait until 1 am, too tired, fell asleep.
早上，他看到消息后，“心一下子坠到谷底，失魂落魄，内心瞬间充满了悲愤和痛苦，一个人关在书房里，痛哭了半个小时”。
In the morning, when he saw the news, his heart sank to the bottom of the valley, and he was overwhelmed with grief and pain, and shut himself up in his study for half an hour.
这是俞敏洪2月7日的疫情日记。
This is Yu Minhong February 7 epidemic diary.
去世的李文亮。
Li Wenliang died.
救援队伍。
Rescue teams.
《鲁迅全集》。
The Complete Works of Lu Xun.
“对不起，今天的日记，尽是眼泪了。
"Sorry, today's diary, full of tears.
”他已经写了13篇疫情日记，每篇3000字左右，从1月29号到2月10号。
He has written 13 epidemiological diaries, each of about 3,000 words, from January 29 to February 10.
这些日记，都发在他的个人公号并转发到微博上。
These diaries were sent to his personal official number and forwarded to Weibo.
也许等到疫情出现拐点，他才会停笔。
Maybe he won't stop until there's an inflection point.
漫长假期里，偶然看到他的微博后，我就迷上了他的日记。
I fell in love with his diary when I happened to see his microblog during the long vacation.
俞敏洪跟其他企业家一样，都是捐款捐物，为灾区贡献力量。
Yu Minhong, like other entrepreneurs, is a donation to the disaster area.
疫情期间，中国的企业家们大多闷着头，没援助的没说话，正在援助的，也没多说几句话。
During the epidemic, China's entrepreneurs mostly sulk, say nothing without aid, are helping, and don't say much more.
但俞敏洪有点特殊。
But Yu Minhong is special.
他的表达欲望很强烈，你朋友圈、微博上看到的那些匪夷所思、让人错愕愤怒的疫情热点事件，他都通过日记表达了自己的看法。
His desire to express himself is very strong, you can see on the circle of friends, micro-blog those strange, shocking and angry epidemic hotspots, he expressed his views through his diary.
知名人物的日记，如史学家杨天石所言的，大概有两类。
The diaries of well-known persons, as the historian Yang Tianshi put it, are of two kinds.
一类是装腔作势，隐藏真实自我，比如阎锡山的《感想日记》，满篇都是教别人做人的鸡汤。
One is to pretend, hide the true self, such as Yan Xishan's "Feeling Diary," is full of teaching others to be human chicken soup.
一类就是写给自己的看的，比如蒋介石的日记，他会记录自己的生理欲望，也会无所顾忌地痛骂戴季陶、李宗仁等好友同僚。
One is for himself, such as Chiang Kai-shek's diary, which records his physiological desires and dismisses his close friends like Dajtao and Li Zongren without scruple.
俞敏洪的日记，刨除企业产品介绍外，则是隐藏部分自我，较为克制。
Yu Minhong's diary, except for the introduction of enterprise products, is part of the hidden ego, more restraint.
他自己也写道，“语言上各种斟酌，胆颤心惊”，害怕给新东方惹来麻烦，他在微信后台回复网友，自己“只是一个胆怯的说话者”。
He wrote himself, "all sorts of language, fear of trouble to the New Oriental," he replied backstage in a micro-letter, "just a timid speaker."
俞敏洪在日记里推荐了一个博主拍摄的武汉视频，称其具有史料价值。
Yu Minhong in the diary recommended a blogger shot Wuhan video, said that it has historical value.
其实，他的日记也有一定的历史价值。
In fact, his diary also has a certain historical value.
这毕竟是一个中国知名企业家的观察。
This, after all, is the observation of a well-known Chinese entrepreneur.
本文将对其疫情的日记进行粗略的归纳、汇编。
This article will carry on the rough summary, the compilation to its epidemic situation diary.
至于他所记录之文字是否属实，感兴趣者可以看他的原文鉴注。
As to whether the words he wrote are true or not, those who are interested may read his original notes.
关于疫情俞敏洪写道——“如果地方政府能够高度重视，及时发布疫情提醒，那老百姓自身可能会更加警惕并自动防范，疫情就不会传播得这么迅速。
"If local governments pay close attention and issue timely reminders of the epidemic, the people themselves may be more vigilant and self-defensive, and the epidemic will not spread so quickly," Yu wrote.
另外，如果老百姓有更多的发声和反应的渠道，基层的问题能够第一时间被决策层获知，就能够提前做好全国防控，而不会造成目前几乎覆盖全国范围的疫情。
In addition, if the people have more voice and response channels, grass-roots issues can be first heard at the decision-making level, so that national control can be done ahead of time, without causing the current epidemic, which covers almost the entire country.
”“一个小小的病毒，在12月中旬就已经发现……不作为、不担当、粉饰太平，弄得不可收拾。
"" A little virus, discovered in the middle of December,... has gone haywire with inaction, irresponsibility and smoothness.
不知事件过后，我们会不会从根本上进行反思，会不会进行有效的变革。
We do not know after the event, we will not fundamentally reflect on whether there will be effective change.
”1月31日，他谈到了湖北红十字会。
On January 31, he talked about the Hubei Red Cross.
“这次疫情，像烈火真金一样，把不少官僚作风烧出了原形。
"This outbreak, like real gold, has burned a lot of bureaucracy into shape.
搪塞、推诿、互撕、愚蠢、无能，都原形毕露。
prevarication, prevarication, mutual tearing, stupidity, incompetence, all plain.
”新东方向湖北红十字会捐款2000万元。
New Oriental donated 20 million yuan to the Hubei Red Cross.
“我们和红十字会取得了联系，对方态度挺好，会按照我们的意愿，再转捐给湖北各地最需要的医院去。
"We got in touch with the Red Cross and they were very good and would give it to the hospitals in Hubei province where they were most needed, according to our wishes.
希望这些钱到了医院，能够用在正道上。
Hopefully this money will go to the hospital and be used on the right track.
”2月1日，双黄连被哄抢，他在日记写，其实3天前就有人告诉他，“上海什么研究所用双黄连治疗病毒实验成功，让我去买点双黄连，还让我千万别告诉别人。
On February 1, Shuang Huanglian was robbed and he wrote in his diary. In fact, he was told three days ago, "What research institute in Shanghai has successfully used Shuanghuanglian to treat the virus?
我凭着有限的科学常识觉得这个不靠谱，就没有理会。
With limited scientific common sense, I found this unreliable and ignored it.
”“我们这种一夜之间的伪科学实在比较多，大家对这种背后可能有着某种不可告人的商业目的的宣传，还是冷静对待比较好。
"" We have a lot of pseudoscience going on overnight, and it's better to be calm about this kind of propaganda that might have some sort of ulterior commercial purpose.
”一人被隔离，他养的猫被活埋。
One man was quarantined, and his cat was buried alive.
“没有人情温暖的做法，实在让人不寒而栗。
"The lack of warmth makes people shudder
”他痛恨那些隐瞒病情，导致他人被隔离的人。
He hates those who conceal their condition and cause others to be isolated.
他觉得，这种人出现的原因是，权利不被保障后，形成两种心态，一种是好处赶紧占，一种是别人好坏与我没关系。
The reason, he felt, was that when rights were not guaranteed, there were two mindsets, one for good and one for bad.
俞敏洪相信人性向善。
Miss Yu believes in goodness.
网上很多感人的故事，他所在的企业家群里，很多因为疫情都受到影响，但每天讨论的都是如何支持武汉。
There are many moving stories on the Internet, and many of his entrepreneurs are affected by the epidemic, but each day they talk about how to support Wuhan.
朋友请他转发一个微博消息，那是一个女孩发的求救信息，奶奶生病，却无法住院。
His friend asked him to forward a tweet message from a girl who was ill but could not be hospitalized.
后来的日记里，他说他低估了人性的恶，因为有人说李文亮是沽名钓誉，得病后的表现是为得到别人的捐款，还有人骂俞敏洪是“美帝的走狗”。
Later in the diary, he said that he underestimated the evil of human nature, because some people said Li Wenliang is selling for fame, after the performance of the disease is to get donations, and others called Yu Minghong "the servant of the United States Emperor.
5日，他写道，“今天的中国，鼓励敢说话的人出来说话，已经变得比什么都重要了”。
"Encouraging outspoken people to speak out has become more important than anything else in China today," he wrote.
他对那些歌功颂德的写手发表了看法：“真正有良知的文人应该认真去关心一下普通老百姓，那些被传染了疾病的人和那些奋战在一线的医护人员，他们的处境是什么？而不是跟着领导后面，屁颠屁颠的跑。
He commented on those who wrote the praises: "A truly conscientious writer should take a serious look at ordinary people, those infected with the disease and those on the front line, what they are in, rather than running after their leaders.
领导也许真的很辛苦，但等疫情结束了再来看功过是非似乎更好。
Leadership may be hard, but it may be better to wait until the epidemic is over before looking at what is right and wrong.
回顾，能够让我们把事情看得更清楚。
In retrospect, it allows us to see things more clearly.
”他批评了基层的抗疫动作变形，基层的工作人员的留言被收入日记内容。
He criticized grass-roots anti-epidemic deformations, with grassroots workers' messages being included in the diary.
“确实，现在除了医护人员，一线基层人员最辛苦。
"It's true that people at the grass-roots level are the hardest nowadays, except for paramedics.
”他后来说：“尽管他们有的时候会言行粗暴，但他们承受的压力要比我们在家里待着的人，高出好几倍。
"Although they can be violent at times, they're several times more stressed than the people we stay at home with," he said later.
”关于企业新东方线下课堂停课。
Classrooms are closed on the New Oriental Line.
上百万的寒假班学生不能上课。
Millions of students in winter vacation classes cannot attend classes.
“如果新东方全部停课退费，新东方就只能关门大吉，七八万老师员工的生计，立刻就成了问题。
"If New Oriental were to suspend all tuition and refunds, New Oriental would have to close its doors and the livelihood of its 780,000 teachers and staff would immediately be in question.
”解决方法是，搬到线上，“否则接近三十年的新东方，将会山崩地裂”。
The solution is to move to the line, "or nearly three decades of New East, it will fall apart."
技术人员熬夜研发，几万名老师除夕晚在线培训、备课。
Technicians stay up late research and development, tens of thousands of teachers New Year's Eve online training, preparation.
1月30日，几十万学生开始使用线上直播系统。
On January 30, hundreds of thousands of students began to use the online broadcast system.
俞敏洪“每一个神经都紧绷着，唯恐系统崩溃掉。
"Every nerve is strained lest the system break down," Yu said.
还好一天下来并无大碍”。
Fortunately, the end of the day is nothing serious.
31日，新东方的服务器遭到猛烈攻击，很多学生无法上课。
On July 31, servers in New Oriental were heavily attacked, and many students were unable to attend classes.
他写道，“我不管你是出于什么原因攻击新东方，都是不恰当的。
"I don't care what the reason is for attacking New Oriental," he wrote.
人做事情要有底线和共识。
People do things with a bottom line and a common understanding.
”有家长问他，线上上课，为何不降价格或者免费。
Some parents asked him why classes were not cheaper or free.
他说，实在是做不到，教室不能开课，房租照付，教师员工工资照付，课堂搬到线上，还有昂贵的系统运营费。
He says it can't be done. Classrooms cannot be opened, rents paid, teachers paid, classrooms moved online, and expensive system operating costs.
如果免费，“新东方基本上撑不到3个月就烟消云散了”。
If free of charge, "New Oriental barely lasted three months before it disappeared."
当然，新东方还是推出了部分免费课程，有些还是针对医护人员的孩子。
New Oriental has, of course, introduced some free classes, some for the children of healthcare professionals.
2号，他所在的微信群里，讨论最多的是企业生存问题。
No.2, in his micro-group, the most discussed issue was the survival of the business.
“房租要继续付，工资要继续发。
"Rent continues to be paid, and wages continue to be paid.
有些地方政府还来添乱，要求企业从3-9号员工上班或者在家里加班的话，企业要付双份工资。
Some local governments add to the confusion by requiring companies to pay double wages if they work from employees 3-9 or work overtime at home.
但没有任何权威机构来认定，因为疫情这个阶段在家里上班，算不算是休息日加班？大量的企业，账上的现金估计能够撑住两个月就不错了。
But there is no authority to conclude that working at home at this stage of the epidemic does not count as a day off? For many businesses, cash on the books is expected to last for two months.
连生意如此兴旺的西贝，也说最多能撑三个月。
Even Sebastian, whose business is so booming, says he can hold out for up to three months.
社保、个人所得税、企业所得税照收不误，银行的贷款不会因为疫情就不收利息，有的银行甚至还在催还本金。
Social security, personal income tax, corporate income tax, banks do not pay interest on loans because of the epidemic, some banks even rush to repay the principal.
”6号，北京出台了中小企业扶植政策。
On No.6, Beijing launched an SME support policy.
“这些措施有的有点虚，有的需要尽快落到实处。
"Some of these measures are a bit hollow, some need to be implemented as soon as possible.
中小企业真的已经很难了，很多企业最多熬两个月，尤其是服务业领域。
Small and medium-sized enterprises are really hard to come by, many for up to two months, especially in the service sector.
新东方算是有点家底的公司，现在也有点入不敷出的紧张。
New Oriental is a bit of a backwater company, and now it's a little overstretched.
幸亏我原来一直坚持现金为王的策略，使得新东方账上还有点余粮。
Fortunately, I had always insisted on cash as the king's strategy, so that the New Oriental account is still a bit of surplus.
”10号，全国各地不少公司复工。
"On the 10th, many companies across the country went back to work.
“确实，中国经济有点拖不起了。
"Indeed, the Chinese economy is a bit untenable.
尤其是很多企业，要是再拖下去不复工的话，真有可能被拖垮了。
In particular, many enterprises, if the delay does not resume work, there is a real risk of being dragged down.
网上已经传出了不少公司裁员的消息。
There has been a spate of layoffs on the Internet.
新东方没有裁员，还是要求员工都在家里上班，不到万不得已不要去办公室坐班。
New Oriental isn't laying off workers, or asking employees to stay at home and stay out of the office until they have to.
尽管效率上会有一定影响，但至少会让员工感觉更加安全一点。
While efficiency may have an impact, it will at least make employees feel safer.
”关于生活俞敏洪大部分时间都呆在家里。
Miss Yu spends most of her time at home.
办公，读书，写日记。
Work, read, keep a diary.
他一边听音频，一边在家里散步。
He was walking home while listening to the audio.
某日，他在家里走几百圈，步数达到一万步以上。
One day he walked hundreds of times around the house, taking more than 10,000 steps.
家里还有他90岁的老母亲。
The family also has his 90-year-old mother.
他偶尔会用轮椅推着母亲转圈散步。
Occasionally he wheeled his mother around for a walk.
母亲得了老年痴呆症。
My mother has Alzheimer's disease.
以前，俞敏洪给母亲零花钱后，母亲都存着不花，怕儿子成了穷光蛋。
Previously, Yu Min Hong to her mother after pocket money, the mother do not spend, afraid of the son has become poor.
“我现在把存款单拿出来给她看，问她这是什么，她摇摇头说不知道。
'I'm going to show her the deposit--ask her what it is, and shake her head and say she doesn't know.
看到她木然的表情，我除了心酸还是心酸。
Seeing her impassive expression, I was still heartbroken.
唯一能够做的就是给她多买点吃的，把她伺候好。
The only thing that could be done was to buy her more food and wait on her.
最动人的时候，就是当她把我认出来的时候，她脸上总会浮现出慈母的温暖的微笑。
The most touching moment, when she recognized me, there was always the warm smile of a mother on her face.
”在某个晚上，他也云喝酒，打开微信视频，朋友们隔着屏幕开始聚会。
One night, he also drank wine, opened microphone videos and friends began to meet across the screen.
1号晚上，半轮明月悬挂。
On the night of the 1st, half a moon hangs.
他倒了一大碗米酒，对着月亮，一饮而尽。
He poured a large bowl of rice wine, facing the moon, and drank it off.
“我倒了另外一碗酒，洒在地上，算是我对逝者的祭奠，愿逝者在天堂安息。
"I poured out another bowl of wine, sprinkled on the ground, as a tribute to the dead, may the dead rest in heaven.
现在你们不得不和家人说再见，但总有一天，我们大家都会在天堂相见。
Now you have to say goodbye to your families, but one day we will all meet in heaven.
”推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles and reprints of "business people" must be authorized.
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
俞敏洪的13篇疫情日记：李文亮去世，痛哭半小时。
Yu Minhong 13 epidemic diary: Li Wenliang died, crying for half an hour.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "俞敏洪的13篇疫情日记：李文亮去世，痛哭半小时";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Miss Yu & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "今天的日记，尽是眼泪了。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Today's diary is full of tears.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '治愈者口述：全家染病，我也跟病毒抗争了20天',。
Healer oral: The whole family was sick, and I fought with the virus for twenty days or so.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '无名之辈',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '草莓红了，疫情来了',。
strawberry red and AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
