治愈者口述：全家染病，我也跟病毒抗争了20天。
The Healer Oral: The whole family got sick and I fought the virus for 20 days.
刘倩。
Clinique Liu.
商业人物                      。
Business people.
商业人物。
Business people.
定义中国商业力量。
Defining China's commercial power.
作者：刘倩来源：商业人物（ID：biz-leaders）周宁没有想过自己会得新冠肺炎，就像他没有想过从小到大经常光顾的华南海鲜市场会成为给他带来这场无妄之灾的罪魁祸首。
Zhou Ning, a business personality, doesn't think he will get a new crown pneumonia, just as he doesn't think the South China seafood market, which he frequented from childhood to adulthood, will be the culprit for the disaster.
他没有海鲜市场暴露史，却因为家和学校都在距离不远的高危区而中招。
He has no history of exposure to seafood markets, but his home and school are in high-risk areas not too far away.
他一家人，“4个疑似，2个确诊”。
His family, "four suspected, two confirmed."
在这场和病毒的遭遇战中，他本该有机会提前准备的，但一切如常的生活、零星而乐观的消息让他放松了警惕，直到灾难降临，变得与每个人息息相关。
In this encounter with the virus, he should have had the opportunity to prepare ahead of time, but all the usual life, sporadic and optimistic news let him relax his guard until the disaster, become everyone's business.
周宁算是幸运的，他选对了首诊医院，顺利地看上了病；他被分配到了试剂盒，得以确诊用药；他年轻、身体底子好，通过输液和吃药渐渐痊愈，始终没有住院；他出身医药世家，父亲未雨绸缪备的药成为了全家的救命稻草。
Zhou Ning was fortunate to have chosen the right hospital for his first visit; he was given a kit in which to confirm the medication; he was young, had a good body, gradually recovered through infusion and medication, and had never been hospitalized; he came from a family of medicine, and his father's well-prepared medicine became a lifeline for the whole family.
从1月17日发病，到2月7日治愈，周宁经历了人生中最难熬的20天，第二次试剂盒结果仍然显示双阴的那天，他在微博上发了长长的一段话，详细记录了自己的治疗过程和用药经验，“希望能帮到还在与阎王爷对抗的患者们”。
From his illness on January 17 to his cure on February 7, Zhou Ning experienced the hardest 20 days of his life, and on the day when the results of the second kit still showed that it was cloudy, he wrote a long paragraph on Weibo detailing his treatment and medication, "hoping to help the patients who are still fighting Yama."
周宁说，他的诊疗过程只是个案，他的经验也不能保证有效和专业性，一定要询问医生并严格遵照医嘱用药。
Zhou Ning said that his diagnosis and treatment process is only an individual case, his experience does not guarantee effective and professional, must consult a doctor and strictly follow the doctor's instructions.
“商业人物”也强调：这篇文章只是记录周宁的个人经历，求医用药，请严格遵照医嘱。
"Business figures" also stressed that this article is only to record Zhou Ning's personal experience, seek medical treatment, please strictly follow the doctor's advice.
以下是周宁的口述：发病我是武汉本地人，家就住在高危区，离华南海鲜市场直线距离四公里。
The following is Zhou Ning's oral: I am Wuhan native, home to live in high-risk areas, from the South China seafood market line distance of four kilometers.
1月17日周五，我正在语言学校上寒假班，觉得浑身酸痛，就吃了泰诺，后面又上了几天的课也觉得没什么问题。
On Friday, January 17, I was in a winter vacation class at the language school and felt sore all over. I ate Tyler and had a few more days of classes.
1月初听到过肺炎的消息，说是不太严重，还有人说武汉有P4级别的生物安全实验室，大家都比较乐观，我就没有太关注，也没有远离华南海鲜市场的意识。
I heard the news of pneumonia in early January, that it was not too serious, and some people said Wuhan has a P-4 biosafety laboratory, everyone is optimistic, I did not pay much attention to, nor away from the South China seafood market awareness.
我从小到大都是在华南海鲜市场买海鲜，那里卫生状况不太行，但我觉得也是海鲜市场的一种常态，有卖野味的，像斑鸠、甲鱼这种符合常识的野味比较多，我们家也挺爱买。
I grew up buying seafood at the South China Seafood Market, where hygiene is not very good, but I think it is the norm in the seafood market. There are more common sense game like turtledove and turtle.
但是穿山甲、蝙蝠我从来没见过。
But the pangolin, the bat I've never seen.
为什么人类还能吃那玩意？无法想象，太疯狂了。
Why can people still eat that stuff? It's unthinkable. It's crazy.
发病前，我没有接近过华南海鲜市场，但是学校还有我家都在高危区。
Before the onset of illness, I did not approach the South China seafood market, but the school and my family are in high-risk areas.
华南海鲜市场就在汉口火车站隔壁，从汉口火车站地铁站到语言学校大概四站路，我可能就是这样被传染的。
South China Seafood Market is next door to Hankou Railway Station, from Hankou Railway Station subway to the language school about four stops, I may have been infected.
第一次觉得武汉情况已经很严重了是在1月17日，也就是我浑身酸痛的那天，中午出来吃饭，发现楼下的口罩全都卖完了。
It was on January 17, the day I was sore, that I came out for lunch and found all the masks sold out downstairs.
我从来没有遇到过这种情况，有点慌，意识到危机要来了。
I've never seen anything like this before, I'm a little nervous, I realize the crisis is coming.
从17号到21号，我除了浑身酸痛外没有别的症状，可能已经发烧了，但我对体温没有特别的感知。
From the 17th to the 21st, I have no symptoms but aches and pains. I may already have a fever, but I don't have a special sense of body temperature.
后来问了下班上其他同学，很多人在那天也有不同程度的发烧，不知道是谁传染的谁，想想挺可怕的。
Later asked other students off duty, many people also have different degrees of fever on that day, do not know who infected who, think it is terrible.
但他们吃了抗病毒药或者抗生素，都自行退烧了，我以为自己是普通感冒，吃的泰诺。
But they took antiviral drugs or antibiotics, all of their own fever, I thought I was a common cold, eat Taino.
现在想想，那个时候我错过了最佳治疗时间，没能通过吃抗病毒药物把病毒扼杀在萌芽状态，而且泰诺有舒缓作用，很可能就因为这个掩盖了病情，有点后悔。
Now think about it, I missed the best treatment time, failed to nip the virus in the bud by taking antiviral drugs, and Tyler had a soothing effect, probably because of this cover-up, and a little remorse.
21号周二，中午感觉身体非常酸痛，就联系了我爸。
On Tuesday the 21st, feeling very sore at noon, I contacted my father.
我爸觉得不对劲，叫我赶紧回家，傍晚在家量体温，37.4℃左右，低烧，晚上十一点再测，还是低烧，赶快就去了同济医院。
My father felt something wrong, told me to hurry home, evening temperature at home, 37.4 degrees Celsius, low fever, 11: 00 p.m. again, or low fever, rushed to Tongji Hospital.
我爸很敏锐，从一月中旬就开始做准备了，弄来一堆口罩，又备了一大堆抗病毒药阿比朵尔，他在药品行业干了二十多年，消息肯定比我灵通，也跟我讲过相关情况，但我当时没有在意。
My father was sharp and had been preparing since mid-January, getting a stack of masks and a huge supply of the antiviral drug Abidol. He had worked in the pharmaceutical industry for more than 20 years. He must have known better and told me about it, but I didn't care.
那个时候什么都是正常的，大家都没有在意，直到这场灾难与每个人息息相关。
At that time, everything was normal, and no one cared until the disaster concerned everyone.
确诊我到同济医院，发现那里人山人海，患者非常非常多，都戴着口罩。
Confirmed that I went to Tongji Hospital, found there was a sea of people, very, very many patients, all wearing masks.
同济医院把整个内科楼全部作为发热门诊，所有医生都穿着隔离服，我第一次看到穿隔离服的人还有点怕。
Tongji Hospital used the entire internal medicine building as a fever clinic, all the doctors were in quarantine, and I was afraid to see people in quarantine for the first time.
我们决定去不远处的武汉肺科医院，平时是结核病防治所，那天晚上发热门诊居然一个人都没有。
We decided to go to Wuhan lung hospital not far away, usually tuberculosis prevention and treatment, that night a fever clinic unexpectedly no one.
很顺利地挂上了夜间急诊，拍了CT，查了血常规和肝功能。
Very smoothly hung up the night emergency, took a CT, check blood routine and liver function.
CT当晚就出结果了，斑片状影，双下肺感染，第二天出来的肝功能显示一切正常，血常规除了超敏C反应蛋白（CPR）略高也一切正常。
The CT showed results on the night of CT, patchy shadow, lower lung infection, liver function coming out the next day all normal, except for hypersensitive C-reactive protein (CPR) slightly higher.
医生给开了奥司他韦、奈诺沙星和金莲花软胶囊，要求三天后复查。
The doctor prescribed oseltamivir, naloxacin and Jinlianhua soft capsules and requested a review after three days.
这是一个比较标准的流程，没有收住院，是因为当时我不严重。
It was a standard procedure, not hospitalized, because I wasn't serious at the time.
之后两天我的病加重了，开始咳嗽，越咳越严重，主要是干咳，有一丁点黄痰，在比较深的下肺，咳出来的过程很痛苦，还有一点点胸闷。
The next two days I got worse, began to cough, more serious cough, mainly dry cough, a little bit of yellow sputum, in the deeper lower lungs, coughing process is painful, and a little bit of chest tightness.
25号复查结果也显示病情加重，感染扩散到了全肺，超敏C反应蛋白从6.3飚到39.76，正常值是0-5。
Review 25 also showed that the infection spread to the entire lung, with hypersensitive C-reactive protein ranging from 6.3 to 39.76, with a normal value of 0-5.
我妈是同济医学院毕业的，马上给我解释，CPR增高意味着身体内有急性炎症的快速发展。
My mother, a Tongji medical school graduate, immediately explained to me that CPR increases mean rapid development of acute inflammation in the body.
医生还是没收我住院，因为床位明显紧张。
The doctor still confiscated my hospital because the bed was obviously tight.
除了继续吃药，还开了输液的处方，也是抗病毒的药物，连续输了四五天。
In addition to continuing to take medicine, there is also a prescription for infusion, but also antiviral drugs, four or five days in a row.
26号是我最难受的时候，起床都格外困难，觉得很冷，打寒颤，高烧39度多，还腹泻呕吐，吃啥吐啥，真的好想哭。
26 is the most difficult time for me to get up, feel very cold, shiver, high fever 39 degrees, but also diarrhea and vomiting, eat what vomit, really want to cry.
我就开始看动漫，看《偶像大师灰姑娘女孩》，边看边抹眼泪，感觉他们平静的日常离我好远好远。
I began to watch animation, see the "idol master Cinderella girl," while watching and wiping tears, feeling their quiet everyday far away from me.
我看这个是为了提醒自己不能忘记喜欢的人是谁，还有我选择的人生道路再难也一定要走下去，我一定不能就这么死掉，我要活着。
I see this to remind myself that I can't forget who I like, and that the path I have chosen is difficult and necessary. I must not die like this. I want to live.
这个病中期进展极快，好在那天我本来就是要去医院输液的，输了液烧立马退了下来，病情就那么急剧恶化了一天，我鬼门关一日游，还逃票了。
This disease in the medium term progress very fast, but that day I was going to the hospital infusion, a liquid fever immediately retired, the disease so rapidly deteriorated a day, I ghost tours, and also escape the ticket.
我最严重的时候，血氧饱和度还是正常的，我会抑制自己的呼吸，尽量短呼吸，这样咳嗽的就会轻一点，就算让自己气短，我的血氧还是能维持在95，其实也算有一点点低了。
When I was at my worst, blood oxygen saturation was normal. I suppressed my breathing and tried to breathe for as short a time as possible so that my cough would be lighter. Even if I kept my breath short, my blood oxygen would still be at 95.
28号我再次复查，经过专家组会诊，分配到了一个试剂盒。
28 I re-check, after the expert group consultation, the distribution of a kit.
能感觉到试剂盒非常紧缺，专家组会诊认为严重的病患才能开出来，如果用CT确诊能更快速一些，时间就是生命啊。
Feeling that the kit was in short supply, the Panel was able to open it for patients who had been diagnosed as serious. Time is of the essence if it could be diagnosed more quickly with CT.
试剂盒99块钱一个，在自动缴费机缴费，直接就采样，把喉咙张开，用棉签在喉咙沾一下，然后放到试剂盒培养液中，直接送到检验科进行检验。
The kit is 99 yuan a piece, at the automatic bill machine, directly sampling, throat open, with a cotton swab in the throat, then put into the kit medium, directly to the test section for inspection.
24小时出结果，我在29号被确诊为新冠肺炎。
Twenty-four hours later, I was diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia on the 29th.
23号武汉“封城”，我们家窗外就是二环，我活了21年从没见过如此冷清的武汉。
Wuhan 23, "closed the city," our window is the second ring, I have lived 21 years never seen such a lonely Wuhan.
治愈确诊后，医院免费发放了五天的克力芝，一种治疗艾滋病的药物。
After the diagnosis was cured, the hospital gave out Kaletra, a drug to treat AIDS, free of charge for five days.
这是我见过的最大的单颗药，酒红色的硬胶囊，特别重，拿着都可以感受到它的重量，我吃后有粥状粪便和腹胀的症状，算是很常见的副作用。
It was the largest single drug I had ever seen, the wine-red hard capsule, especially heavy, and I could feel its weight in it. I had congee-shaped feces and bloated abdomen after eating, which was a common side effect.
从发病到确诊，我一直没有住院，自己在家隔离。
From the onset of illness to the diagnosis, I have not been hospitalized, their own isolation.
我把全家人都传染了，除了我爸没有症状，我妈和奶奶都发烧了，不过没有确诊，自己吃药好了。
I infected the whole family, except my father did not have symptoms, my mother and grandmother have a fever, but did not confirm, take their own medicine.
我哥在29号开始发烧、咳嗽，2月2号确诊了，正在治疗，已经大幅好转了。
My brother began to have a fever and cough on February 29. He was diagnosed on February 2nd and is being treated.
我们全家都按照我爸的建议吃药，吃阿比朵尔和左氧氟沙星，我和我哥再加上克力芝。
My family took the medicine recommended by my father, took abidol and levofloxacin, and my brother and I took Kaletra.
一换药，我不腹泻也不呕吐了，吃饭也能消化了。
A change of medicine, I do not diarrhea nor vomit, eating can also be digestible.
我从未用过如此好的抗病毒药，体内病毒对这个非常敏感，立马就缴械投降了。
I had never used such a good antiviral drug, the body virus is very sensitive to this, immediately surrendered.
之后每次复查都在好转，2月1号我的病灶吸收到只剩下双肺的了，咳嗽也开始缓解，CRP降到2，恢复到正常水平。
After each visit, my focus was reduced to only two lungs on Feb. 1, coughing began to subside and CRP dropped to 2, returning to normal levels.
2月4号再次复查，肺部继续好转，咳嗽停止，补开了两天的克力芝，进行试剂盒检测，价格为150元，结果双阴，应该算是理论康复了，我还发了条微博庆祝。
Feb. 4 review, the lungs continue to improve, cough stopped, two days of Kaletra, testing kits for 150 yuan, the result of double yin, should be a theoretical recovery, I also sent a micro-blog to celebrate.
2月6号再次复查，试剂盒这次是免费的。
February 6 re-examination, the kit is free this time.
但我又有点咳嗽，7号拿到结果还是双阴，那就说明我体内真的没有病毒了。
But I also have a cough, the result of the 7th or double yin, that means I really do not have the virus.
从患病到治愈，历时20天，没有谁通知我我被加入治愈患者数字里，但我知道我是。
From illness to cure, for 20 days, no one informed me that I was included in the number of cured patients, but I knew I was.
得了这么严重的病还能好，我真的能吹一年，不，能吹好几年。
I can really play for a year. No, I can play for years.
我年内计划去日本，还要在我偶像面前吹一下，来自武汉的新冠肺炎患者好了。
I plan to go to Japan this year, but also in front of my idol blow, from Wuhan, the new crown pneumonia patients.
这两天我的情况有些反复，胸闷、咳嗽、喉咙痒。
These two days my condition is a bit repetitive, chest tightness, cough, throat itchy.
虽然在病理学上，我的身体应该是产生了抗体，但是很有限，而且治愈是通过药物，免疫力没有起太大作用，所以说还是要注意安全，为防二次感染，我爸让我千万别出门。
Although clinically, my body should be producing antibodies, but very limited, and the cure is through drugs, immunity does not play a major role, so be careful, to prevent secondary infections, my father told me not to go out.
现在我在酒店隔离，政府有了新政策，确诊后无论转阴与否都得去酒店隔离，包吃住，鉴于我已经两次转阴，在酒店里进行第三次检测还是阴性后就可以回家了。
Now that I'm in hotel seclusion and the government has a new policy, I have to stay in the hotel secluded after a diagnosis, whether it's cloudy or not, and since I've had two shades, I can go home after a third negative test at the hotel.
这次生病我大概花了5000块钱，确诊后把缴费单据留好，会报销的，虽说一分钱不花，但是得病还是受罪。
I spent about five thousand dollars on this illness. When I was diagnosed, I kept my bill for reimbursement. Although it cost nothing, I still suffered from illness.
我们家4个疑似，2个确诊，均安然无恙。
Our family 4 suspected, 2 confirmed, all safe.
其实胜负一开始就已经见分晓了，病毒打不赢我的。
In fact, the beginning of the victory has been clear, the virus won't beat me.
我的案例也没有办法作为一个普遍案例，毕竟能有我们家这种很好的医疗条件的人不多，我在医院看到不少病患，真的好可怜。
My case can not be regarded as a universal case, after all, our family this good medical conditions are not many people, I saw a lot of patients in the hospital, really pitiful.
这些天我看到医院的患者越来越多，跟我一起输液的大多数是老人，很多人手都青了，一拔针手上全是血。
These days I see more and more patients in the hospital. Most of the patients who have been infusion with me are old people.
我还看到一个老人在那吸氧，他的呼吸都没法连续，那是种什么样子？是人快死了的样子，这就是地狱，太恐怖了。
I also saw an old man breathing oxygen, his breath can not continue, that is what it is like? It is dying, this is hell, it is terrible.
很多时候医生也无能为力，有一天我在肺科医院看到汉口殡仪馆的车开进来，真像是死神来了。
Most of the time, doctors can not help, one day I saw Hankou funeral parlor in the car, really like death came.
医生病的越来越多，资源也越来越紧缺。
Doctors are increasingly ill and resources are increasingly scarce.
我拍CT的时候有不少本院的医生护士也在检查，我一问都是被感染的，都在发烧。
There were a lot of doctors and nurses at the hospital when I took my CT, and I asked if they were infected and feverish.
他们的防护服品牌一直在变，我至少看到了四个品牌，医生说储备的早就没有了，全是社会捐赠的，我还看到他们在用自制的物件强化自己的防护。
Their brand of protective clothing has been changing, I've seen at least four brands, doctors say the stock is long gone, all donated by society, and I see them fortifying themselves with homemade objects.
医生真的是拿命在拼，他们本应受到最好的保护。
Doctors are really fighting for their lives. They deserve the best protection.
这些天我看到太多可悲的东西了。
I've seen so many sad things these days.
我爸问我，经此一役感觉成熟些没有，我说，成熟了，成熟好多。
My father asked me, after this service feeling mature, I said, mature, much more mature.
我想对其他正在治疗的人说，活下去，困难千千万，但是你要活下去。
I would like to say to others who are being treated, "To live, to live, to be difficult, but to live."
（文中采访对象为化名）*头图为看看新闻knews视频截图推荐阅读严正声明：“商业人物”所有原创文章，转载均须获授权。
All original articles by "business people" must be authorized for reprinting. "(Agencies) Vocabulary: commercial persona:
一切形式非法转载，包括但不限于盗转、未获“商业人物”授权通过第三方转载行为，均属侵权行为，“商业人物”将公布“黑名单”并追究法律责任。
All forms of illegal reproduction, including, but not limited to, theft and unauthorized reprinting by a third party without the authorization of a "business person," who will publish the "blacklist" and will be held liable.
“商业人物”只愿与尊重知识产权的机构合作。
"Business people" are willing to cooperate only with institutions that respect intellectual property rights.
投稿、约访、合作，联系邮箱：bizleaders@qq.com添加微信biz-leader，获转载授权或邀您加入商友群微信名：商业人物微信ID：biz-leaders1.长按右侧二维码即可关注。
Subscriptions, interviews, collaborations, contact mailboxes: bizleaders @ qq.com, get permission to reprint, or invite you to join the microphone group of business people: micro-ID: biz-leaders1. Click on the two-dimensional code on the right.
2.期待您置顶与星标。
2. Expect you to place your top and star.
欢迎分享与评论，欢迎通过留言或私信方式给我们提供选题线索。
Welcome to share and comment, welcome to leave a message or private letter to us to provide clues to the topic.
3.点击“阅读原文”，看商业人物官网，获取更多精彩内容。
3. Click on "Read the original text" to see the official website of business people, to get more wonderful content.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
治愈者口述：全家染病，我也跟病毒抗争了20天。
The Healer Oral: The whole family got sick and I fought the virus for 20 days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "商业人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
var msg_title = "治愈者口述：全家染病，我也跟病毒抗争了20天";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Healer's dictation: My family was sick, and I fought with the virus for twenty days;;
var msg_desc = "希望好消息越来越多。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Hope the good news keeps growing.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '无名之辈',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '草莓红了，疫情来了',。
strawberry red and AT & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
title: '肺炎阴影下，天津的非典型春节',。
AT & P's Atypical Spring Festival in the shadow of pneumonia.
subject_name: '商业人物',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos;.
var title ="商业人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; commercial & quot;.
