那些给2000万人上免费直播课的湖北老师们。
Hubei teachers who give 20 million people free live lessons.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
万人空巷，形容的是成千上万的人涌向某处，使得巷子里空阔冷落的情景。
An empty alley describes a situation in which thousands of people flock to one place to make it empty and desolate.
「全国各个省份的学生都凑在一起上直播课，大城市的有，下面县里村里的学生也有，街道上却空无一人。
"Students from every province in the country huddled together to have live lessons, from the big cities to the students from the counties below, but the streets were empty.
你想想，这是个什么场景。
You know, what a scene this is.
」文 |易方兴编辑 |楚明25岁的黄婧玉老师已经两周没吃到米饭了。
The way Huang Jade, 25, at the age of 25, has not eaten rice in two weeks.
这些天她一直在吃泡面。
She has been eating noodles these days.
早些时候一天泡两包，如今泡面储备也不足了，就一天吃一包。
Earlier a day bubble two packs, now that the stock of noodles is also insufficient, eat a bag a day.
作为中国1600万名老师之一，她属于一个相对小众的群体——作业帮直播课一名主讲老师。
As one of China's 16 million teachers, she is a lecturer in a relatively small group, Homework Live.
吃饭很马虎，是因为精力放在别处。
Eating is sloppy because energy is elsewhere.
黄婧玉每天要花15个小时备课，最近这几天一天只睡4个小时。
The way yellow Jade takes 15 hours a day to prepare classes, these days only four hours a day sleep.
她是武汉人，今年没能回家，一面牵挂家人，一面在北京租的房子里给全国学生上课。
Wuhan, she did not return home this year, while worried about their families, while in Beijing rented a house for students throughout the country.
这是一套特殊时期的特殊课程。
This is a special course for a special period.
疫情来袭，她所在的作业帮直播课，推出了面向全国的免费在线直播课。
As the epidemic hit, her homework helped broadcast the lessons live, offering free live online classes across the country.
2月10日上午，报名这个公益课的学生人数达到了史无前例的2000万人。
On the morning of February 10, an unprecedented 20 million students signed up for the volunteer class.
「史上最长寒假」背后，是推迟开学的孩子们的巨大学习需求。
Behind the longest winter break in history is a huge learning need for children who delay starting school.
此前，从没有哪一个时刻像今天这样，在线教育成为主流的教育方式。
Never before has online education been the mainstay of education as it is today.
就连一些传统的公立学校都开启了线上教学模式，让原本是线下的老师们纷纷转到线上。
Even some traditional public schools have opened up online teaching models, allowing teachers who were already offline to switch to it.
以前是对着学生讲课，现在都变成对着空气讲课。
What used to be a lecture to a student is now a lecture to the air.
说到在线教育，黄婧玉所在的作业帮直播课是专业的。
When it comes to online education, the Jade Yellow Jade homework is professional.
他们成为在另一条战线上抗击疫情的人。
They became people fighting the epidemic on another front.
疫情爆发后，它是第一家下决心给全国学生推出免费在线公益课的教育机构。
After the outbreak, it was the first educational institution to make a decision to introduce free online volunteering classes to students across the country.
这意味着，必须尽快打造出面对各个年级、学科的全新课程。
This means that an entirely new curriculum for all levels and disciplines must be developed as soon as possible.
对已经创立6年，成为中国用户规模最大的在线教育平台的作业帮来说，要让全国学生安心在家上课，依然需要付出几百名老师们的时间、精力，与热情。
For Homework, the largest online educational platform for Chinese users since it was created six years ago, hundreds of teachers' time, energy and enthusiasm are still needed to keep students at home.
老师们都在拼。
The teachers are all fighting.
从大年三十算起，被学生称作「鲸鱼老师」的黄婧玉，从94斤瘦到了86斤。
From about 30 years, students called the "whale teacher" the yellow way jade, from 94 jin to 86 jin.
黄婧玉在备课 受访者供图难以抵达的距离2月9日这一天，黄婧玉很高兴，她从柜子深处翻出来两包泡面，又可以在北京撑两天。
The way Huang Jade in the preparation of the participants difficult to reach the distance between February 9, the yellow Jade is very happy, she dug from the depths of the cabinet, two bags of noodles, can stay in Beijing for two days.
也不是不想出去买，但她没有口罩。
Not that she doesn't want to go out, but she doesn't have a mask.
仅有的3个口罩还是很久之前的雾霾天买的，这半个月已经用尽。
The last three masks were bought long ago in a haze that had run out in the first half of the month.
大年二十九那天，她刚刚结束之前的寒假语文直播课，迫不及待想回家去。
On the twenty-ninth day of the year, she had just finished her winter vacation Chinese live lessons and couldn't wait to go home.
湖北人口味重，她搓了一顿，吃了一碗干锅肥肠配米饭。
Hubei people taste heavy, she rubbed a meal, ate a bowl of fat pot with rice.
结果大年三十上午，接到通知，作业帮准备针对全国疫区开免费直播课，她只能把回家的票退了。
Results In the morning of New Year's Eve, she was told that homework help was going to hold free live lessons for the affected areas of China.
那顿肥肠饭，成了她这半个月吃的唯一一次米饭。
The pudding was the only rice she had eaten for half a month.
对黄婧玉来说，退票是个艰难的决定。
The way yellow Jade, refund ticket is a difficult decision.
她的爸爸去年因为尿毒症去世，按照习俗，今年过年回武汉老家给爸爸立碑。
Her father died of uremia last year, according to custom, this year back home to Wuhan father monument.
与此同时，她84岁的爷爷也因为心梗和脑瘤卧病在床，她也得回去探望爷爷。
Meanwhile, her 84-year-old grandfather was in bed with a heart attack and a brain tumor, and she had to go back to see Grandpa.
另一个必须回家的理由是，如果今年过年不回去，家里只有妈妈一个人。
Another reason I have to go home is that if I don't go home this year, my mother is the only one at home.
一时间，武汉成了难以抵达的距离。
For a time, Wuhan became hard to reach the distance.
退票的时候她哭了。
She cried when the ticket was refunded.
老师们接到返京通知时，情况大都很突然。
When the teachers were notified to return to Beijing, the situation was mostly unexpected.
作业帮的高中语文老师罗斐然，接到通知时正在泰国度蜜月，她本来准备今年5月份办婚礼。
Rafferan, a high school language teacher for Homework, was on her honeymoon in Thailand at the time of her announcement that she was planning a wedding in May.
每个返京的老师们都需要在线填写一份信息表，她是蹲在泰国的街上用手机填的。
Every teacher returning to Beijing has to fill out an information form online, which she filled in on her cell phone in the streets of Thailand.
不过，无论收不收到通知，她都准备回来了。
Still, she was ready to return, whether she received it or not.
她和老公都是湖北襄阳人，家乡确诊患者越来越多，父亲还得每天出去值班，她实在是没心情继续旅游。
She and her husband are Hubei Xiangyang people, home confirmed more and more patients, father has to go out every day on duty, she is really in no mood to continue traveling.
也有没回来成的。
And some of them didn't come back.
作业帮高中数学老师张华是少数几个没能返京的老师之一。
Homework help high school math teacher Zhang Hua is one of the few teachers who failed to return to Beijing.
年前，他奶奶去世，他赶回湖北荆州石首市老家的村里奔丧。
His grandmother died a few years ago and he rushed back to the village of Shiqiu, Jingzhou, Hubei Province.
接到通知后，他大年三十从荆州开车往北京赶，结果开到湖南长沙想赶飞机，高速封了，只能原路返回。
After receiving the notice, he drove from Jingzhou to Beijing on New Year's Eve. As a result, he wanted to catch a plane in Changsha, Hunan Province.
直播课迫在眉睫，他的首要难题就是怎么在村里找到直播能用的电脑、手写板、补光灯、背景布。
With live lessons looming, his first challenge was to find a live computer, stylus, floodlight and backcloth in the village.
灯和布还好解决，电脑不太好找。
Lights and cloths work. Computers are not easy to find.
好在他是石首市2005年的高考状元，为村里争了光，村委会决定把办公电脑借他用。
Fortunately, he is the city in 2005, for the village won the light, the village committee decided to borrow his office computer.
但村委会电脑内存是2G的，要运行直播课，起码也要6G内存，他只能把另外电脑上的内存条都拔下来，插到一个电脑上。
But the village council has 2G of computer memory, so to run a live class, he needs at least 6gigabytes of memory. He can only unplug the memory on another computer and plug it into a computer.
村里实在找不到手写板，只能从北京寄。
The village couldn't find any handwriting, so it had to be mailed from Beijing.
在等待快递来的漫长几天里，直播课已经开始了，他用最原始的方法，把摄像头对着白纸，用笔手写来做板书。
In the long days of waiting for the express to arrive, the live class has begun, using the most primitive method, the camera to the white paper, pen handwriting to make the board.
在1月24日的大年三十，作业帮直播课做出开免费直播课的决定，各部门积极响应，随后于1月25日大年初一首家上线报名入口，2月3日正式上课。
On January 24, New Year's Day, the homework to help the class make a free live broadcast of the decision, departments responded positively, and then January 25 on the first line on the first registration entrance, February 3 formal classes.
这中间只有9天时间给老师们准备。
There were only nine days to prepare for the teachers.
赶回北京，只是开课前要面临的重重困难中的第一个。
Rushing back to Beijing was only the first of many difficulties to face before classes started.
接下来的难题在于备课。
The next challenge is to prepare for class.
「这之前从没有给这么多学生上过课。
"I've never taught so many students before.
」黄婧玉最多同时给6000个学生在线上课，免费课推出之后，如今她的课有30万人报名，每堂课在线人数都有数万人左右。
The way Huang Jade gives classes online to up to 6,000 students at a time. After free classes are launched, she now has 300,000 enrollees and tens of thousands of people online for each class.
她是华中师范大学硕士，在作业帮也讲了快两年课，但如今面对30万人，又有了一种最开始当老师时的感觉，上课前手心都会紧张得出汗。
She is a master's degree from Central China Normal University and has been lecturing for nearly two years at Homework, but now she has a feeling of being a teacher for the first time. Her palms are sweaty before class.
她给自己定的要求颇高。
She set herself very high standards.
她觉得，30万人就是30万个未来，「我要是哪一道题没讲明白，那这30万人考试时可能这5分就丢了。
She felt that 300,000 people were 300,000 for the future and that "if I didn't answer any of the questions, maybe the 300,000 people would have lost those five points.
」作业帮要求的是6倍时间备课法，按照免费直播课一节课40分钟的长度来算，需要花费4个小时来备课。
"Homework asked for six times as much preparation time as 40 minutes for a free live lesson, which took four hours to prepare.
她为了把课打磨好，每节课花10个小时准备，备完了课，还要试讲一遍录下来，再回放一遍看看哪里不够好。
To polish the class, she spends 10 hours preparing for each class, trying to tape it again and then replaying it to see if it isn't good enough.
黄婧玉线上授课时的自我介绍受访者供图万人空巷给几万个人上课，跟给千百人上课完全不同。
The way Huang Jade teaching self-introduction interviewees for tens of thousands of people to teach classes, and hundreds of people completely different.
万人空巷，形容的是成千上万的人涌向某处，使得巷子里空阔冷落的情景。
An empty alley describes a situation in which thousands of people flock to one place to make it empty and desolate.
用在作业帮的免费直播课上正合适。
Free live broadcast class for homework help is just right.
「全国各个省份的学生都凑在一起上直播课，大城市的有，下面县里村里的学生也有，街道上却空无一人。
"Students from every province in the country huddled together to have live lessons, from the big cities to the students from the counties below, but the streets were empty.
你想想，这是个什么场景。
You know, what a scene this is.
」作业帮数学老师张华说。
"Homework for the math teacher Zhang Hua.
海量的学生带来的是难以分层的问题。
Large numbers of students create problems that are difficult to stratify.
各个地区学生进度不一，水平不一，因此原有的上课模式已经行不通了。
The progress of students varies from region to region, so the original mode of teaching is no longer feasible.
张华要讲的是高一数学的函数章节，他想出来一个办法，把课本上的所有知识点全盘做了归类，分析了函数在各种情况下的值域问题。
Zhang Hua wants to talk about the function chapter of high school mathematics, he came up with a way to classify all the knowledge points in the textbook, and analyzed the range problem of the function in various cases.
「这样对于基础差一点的学生，会发现函数总共也没那么多种，学起来并不是那么难；对于基础好一些的学生来说，他们也会觉得，原来函数还可以这么分类，也会有所收获。
"For the less basic students, the total number of functions is not so many and it's not that hard to learn; for the better-groomed students, they also feel that the original function can be classified in the same way and that it will yield results.
」张华已经有11年教龄了。
Zhang Hua has been teaching for 11 years.
前5年都在线下学校当老师，后面6年转型到了线上。
The first five years of school online teachers, the next six years to the transition to online.
他对在线教育的认识也在改变。
His understanding of online education is also changing.
他以前觉得线上课程唯一的好处，就是可以同时教更多的学生。
He used to think that the only advantage of online courses was that they taught more students at the same time.
但现在，他发现要想在线上抓住学生的注意力，就必须要求课程更有趣味性，知识点的密度也需要更高。
Now, however, he finds that to catch students' attention online, he must demand more interesting courses and a higher density of knowledge.
「从这个意义上来说，线上教育要比线下教育更优质。
"In this sense, online education is better than offline education.
比如这次免费直播课，你必须讲好，不然学生们按一个home键，就去玩游戏了。
For example, this free live class, you have to say good, or the students press a home key, to play the game.
」初中语文老师黄婧玉要讲的课是「八年级上重点诗歌回顾」。
The way the junior middle school language teacher Huang Jade lectures is "eighth grade key poetry review."
其中有一首杜甫的《春望》，「国破山河在，城春草木深」。
One of them is Du Fu's "Spring Wangwang", "the country broke the mountains and rivers, the city spring vegetation deep."
安史之乱后，唐都长安城里草木丛生。
After the Anshi Rebellion, Tang Duo Changan City overgrown with vegetation.
为了加深学生们的记忆，她讲到为了抗击疫情，人们都宅在家里，实际上外面春光已至，草木已经开始生长了，也是另一种「城春草木深」。
To deepen the students' memories, she said that to fight the epidemic, people were staying at home. In fact, the spring had come out and the plants were beginning to grow, another kind of "city and spring grass."
「只不过与唐朝不同的是，如今时代不一样了，很多有志之士冲上抗疫前线，所以我们也要有信心。
"It's just that unlike the Tang Dynasty, times are different and many people with a sense of purpose are on the front line, so we have to be confident.
」对于作业帮的湖北籍老师们来说，这次给学生们上直播课，还要多一层牵挂。
"For Hubei teachers who helped with the homework, there was one more layer of concern for the students, who were given a live lesson.
2月6号那天零点，高中语文老师罗斐然正在为第二天的直播课备课，她在湖北襄阳的表妹连着给她发了3条微信，都是一个字「姐」。
February 6 at 0 o'clock, high school language teacher Luo Feilan is preparing for the next day of live lessons, her cousin Xiangyang in Hubei Province sent her three consecutive messages, all one word "sister."
正在备课，她把微信调成了静音，没有听到。
As she prepared for the class, she turned the message into a silent one, which she did not hear.
20分钟后，妹妹又打电话来，用颤抖的声音说，「姐，我发烧了，37度5。
Twenty minutes later, my sister called again and said in a shaking voice, "I have a fever, sister, 37 degrees 5.
」罗斐然的老家襄阳，是湖北省里疫情较严重的疫区，确诊人数过千。
"Lofty's hometown of Xiangyang, Hubei Province in the more serious epidemic area, confirmed the number of thousands.
罗斐然从小和妹妹一起长大，关系很好，妹妹有什么事都告诉她。
Lofty grew up with his sister, and she was on good terms, and told her everything.
就在几天前，妹妹小区隔壁楼刚刚抬出去一名疑似病人，就在这时，妹妹发烧了。
Just a few days ago, my sister just carried out a suspected patient next door, just then, my sister had a fever.
「我妹妹是个单亲妈妈，一直很坚强，孩子已经带到4岁。
"My sister is a single mother and has always been strong. The child is 4 years old.
」但这一次，妹妹的声音是颤抖的，半夜里起床在家里来回找药，电话里传来粗重的喘息声。
But this time her sister's voice trembled, she got up in the middle of the night to look for medicine at home, and there was a heavy gasp from the telephone.
北京这边，罗斐然也很焦急，只能安慰妹妹，没事的，肯定会没事的。
Beijing side, Raffayette is also very anxious, can only comfort sister, it is all right, it will be all right.
第二天早上9点，免费直播课上课前，罗斐然又给妹妹打了个电话，没有人接听。
The next morning at 9 a.m., before the free live class, Raffayette called her sister again, but no one answered.
她安慰自己，妹妹还在睡觉，说明烧可能退了，不然妹妹可能一晚上都睡不好觉。
She consoled herself that her sister was still asleep, indicating that the fever might have receded, or she might not have slept well all night.
1分钟后，罗斐然开始了直播课。
A minute later, Raffayette started live lessons.
在接下来40分钟的讲课时间里，她必须暂时忘记这些牵挂的人和事，投入到教学中。
During the next 40 minutes of her lecture, she had to forget the people and things she cared about for a while and devote herself to teaching.
罗斐然在家上课受访者供图七天可以改变什么在武汉火神山医院建成前几天，可能是武汉最令人担忧的时刻。
2007-9-24 16: 23 2007-9-24 16: 23 What Can Change for Seven Days Before the construction of Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital, Wuhan may be the most worrying moment.
大量的病人没有病床可住，只能隔离在家，给家人和邻居增加传染的风险。
A large number of patients have no beds and are confined to isolated homes, increasing the risk of transmission to their families and neighbours.
黄婧玉的奶奶是个热心肠的老人。
The way Huang Jade grandma is a warm-hearted old man.
在武汉，奶奶家对门住着另一个老人，是疑似病人，当时没病床，正在家隔离。
In Wuhan, there was another old man living opposite the door, a suspected patient, who had no hospital beds and was living in isolation.
到了晚上，这个老人心脏病犯了，打电话到奶奶这里，希望奶奶去看她一下。
In the evening, the old man had a heart attack. He called Grandma and asked her to come and see her.
奶奶赶紧到门口，确认对方没事了才离开。
Grandma hurried to the door to make sure she was all right before she left.
黄婧玉担心奶奶，「她是疑似，要是把你传染上怎么办？」奶奶电话里说，「没办法，关系好呀。
The way Huang Jade worried about Grandma, "she is suspected, if you infect what?" Grandma said on the phone, "no way, good relationship."
」奶奶反过来安慰黄婧玉，让她别担心，安心在北京把课上好。
"Grandma in turn comfort the way Jade, let her not worry, peace of mind in Beijing good classes.
如果不是还有课要上，从武汉家乡传递过来的焦虑可能会让黄婧玉更加无所适从。
If there are no lessons to be transferred from Wuhan hometown anxiety may let the yellow Jade more out of place.
有段时间她一看到家乡的消息，就要掉眼泪。
There was a time when she would shed tears when she saw the news of her hometown.
相比之下，长时间的备课和上课，反倒成了一种快乐的事。
In contrast, the long preparation for classes and classes, on the contrary, has become a happy thing.
对于学生们来说，黄婧玉取消了假期，来给他们上课，但反过来，学生们也在支撑着她。
For students, the way Huang Jade canceled holidays to give them lessons, but in turn, students are supporting her.
上免费直播课前，她给几万个学生做自我介绍，说「我是湖北武汉人」，结果一时间，直播软件的留言区里都在说「老师加油」。
"I'm from Wuhan, Hubei Province," she introduced herself to tens of thousands of students before attending the free live broadcast class.
她还特意让奶奶录了段对孩子们说的话，在课堂上播给孩子们看。
She also had her grandma videotape a message to the children and show it to them in class.
奶奶说，「保自己，就是保国家，这是无烟的战争。
Grandma said, "To protect oneself is to protect the country. This is a smoke-free war."
」几天课下来，鲸鱼老师收获了一批鱼粉，在作业帮APP上，学生给她留言的数量达到了6000多条。
A few days after class, the whale teacher harvested a batch of fishmeal, and on the homework help APP, the number of messages sent to her by students reached more than 6,000.
学生们来自于全国，安徽宣城，广东深圳，河南商丘……每节课后，在APP上看到学生评论，可能是线上教学的老师们最重要的成就感来源。
Students come from all over the country, Anhui Xuancheng, Shenzhen, Henan Shangqiu... After every class, students' comments are probably the most important source of achievement for online teachers.
不同的评论背后，是不同的性格的学生。
Behind the different comments are students of different personalities.
2月9日那一天，黄婧玉为期一周的公益直播课上完最后一节，有的学生比较抒情，留言写道，「今天是寒假最后一节课了，非常的不舍，留恋春天的风，夏天的雨，秋天的落叶，冬天的白雪，更加留恋和鲸鱼姐的快乐时光。
February 9, the yellow Jade the end of the week-long public welfare class, some students more lyrical message, "today is the last class, very reluctant to miss the spring wind, summer rain, autumn leaves, winter snow, more yearning and whale sister happy time.
」还有的学生拿出了追星的劲头，「超级喜欢鲸鱼姐，鲸鱼姐是一位非常厉害的学霸，更是超级宠粉。
"Other students showed off their zeal for the stars." The whale sister is a very powerful bully and is a big fan.
」来自学生们的鼓励，也在温暖着老师们。
"Encouraged by the students, they also warmed the teachers.
哪怕是已经教了15年高中数学，听过许多学生的肯定，依然会因为得到陌生学生的鼓励而感动。
Even after 15 years of teaching high school mathematics, many students will be impressed by the encouragement they receive from strangers.
疫情下，许多学生都是第一次接触到作业帮，有的还是第一次听直播课。
Many students were exposed to homework for the first time during the outbreak, some of them for the first time.
虽然老师们一般是以一周为教课期限，时间短暂，但学生们依然能够在这短短的7天里，有所改变。
Although teachers usually teach for a short period of one week, students can still make a difference in just seven days.
张华2月6号讲的章节是「初探空间中的垂直关系」。
Zhang Hua spoke on February 6 in the chapter "Explore the vertical relationship in space."
一名以前看到数学就烦的学生留言，「只是时间太短，华哥还没眼熟我，你一点点的影响我对数学的看法，从原来的看到就烦，到现在竟然耐着性子听完一整节课，对我来说，真的进步很大，你让我感觉学数学的甜头，因为当一页练习题有了自己会做的，那不是碾压别人的快乐，而是征服自己的自豪，谢谢你！遇到你真的很幸福！」张华在家上直播课的环境受访者供图每节课都是代表作在加入作业帮，成为一名直播课老师之前，黄婧玉一度被挫败感包围。
One student who had been bored with mathematics before said, "It is just that time is too short, Waggo is not familiar with me, you have a little influence on my views on mathematics, from the original to listen to the whole class, thank you!
父亲在她4岁的时候就肾衰竭过一次，演变成了尿毒症。
My father had a kidney failure when she was 4 years old and developed uremia.
那是20年前，由于家里贫穷，父亲出不起800块钱一次的透析费用，在奶奶的搀扶下，满武汉找医院，终于找到一家小医院，透析一次400块钱。
It was 20 years ago, because the family was poor, the father could not afford 800 yuan once a dialysis expenses, in the grandma's help, Manchuang looked for a hospital, finally found a small hospital, dialysis once 400 yuan.
在社会上好心人的帮助下，父亲最后找到了肾源，并且筹集到了换肾的费用。
With the help of well-wishers in the community, the father finally found the kidney source and raised money to replace it.
可以说，正是由于民间的善意，让黄婧玉的父亲有了再陪她20年的机会。
Can say, it is because of the goodwill of the people, let the way yellow Jade's father has the opportunity to accompany her 20 years.
「但我小时候太不懂事了。
"But I was too ignorant when I was a child.
」她觉得家里总是舍不得花钱，连个雪糕都不肯给她买，爸爸也不像别人的爸爸那样会赚钱。
"She felt like the family was always reluctant to spend money, she didn't even want to buy her an ice cream, and Dad didn't make the money that other dads do.
整个小学就她没有一条自己的裙子。
She didn't have a dress of her own all through elementary school.
小学毕业典礼那天，她很渴望能有一条粉色的公主裙，但母亲就是不肯给她买。
On graduation day, she longed for a pink princess dress, but her mother refused to buy it for her.
她记得很清楚，裙子50块钱，她已经悄悄去看了许多遍。
She remembered quite well that her dress cost fifty dollars, and that she had seen it many times.
最后，是爸爸买给了她。
Finally, my father bought it for her.
后来，她中考失败，没能考上最好的高中，极为消沉。
Later, she failed the exam, failed to enter the best high school, extremely depressed.
父亲第一次把换肾的事情讲给了她听。
My father told her about the kidney change for the first time.
在她原来的记忆里，父亲很节省，在质量监督所上班，是个查缺斤短两的普通职员。
In her original memory, the father is very economical, in the quality supervision office work, is a check jack ordinary staff.
那天，父亲说起换肾的痛苦和不易，告诉她，「遇到任何事情都不要怕，难过没有用，因为以后可能还会遇到比这更难受的事情，最关键的是要有乐观的心态。
That day, my father told her about the pain and difficulty of changing the kidney. He told her, "Don't be afraid of anything. It's no use being upset because you may have to deal with something worse later.
」而到了父亲去世那天，她忙于弄毕业论文，竟没能赶上见父亲最后一面。
"But on the day her father died, she was so busy with her graduation thesis that she failed to make it to her father's last.
她印象里还停留在上一次见到父亲时的情景，那是一家人在病房里吃的最后一顿饭，吃的青椒肉丝，父亲拿着碗一直抖，笑着对她说，「没想到我还有机会和女儿一起吃饭。
She remembered the last time she had met her father, who had eaten his last meal in the hospital room. He had eaten the filet of green pepper. He was shaking in his bowl and smiling.
」一周后，父亲走了。
"A week later his father went away.
「为什么父亲在的时候，我没能多陪陪他？」她陷入一种自我否定和愧疚中。
"Why wasn't I able to accompany my father more when he was around?" She felt a sense of self-denial and guilt.
直到毕业后，她成了一名老师，心境才有所改观。
It was not until she graduated that she became a teacher that her state of mind changed.
她对自己定下严格的要求，从教学的过程中感受到了一种久违的成就感。
She sets strict requirements for herself and feels a sense of accomplishment from the process of teaching.
「这一点点的成就感，让我觉得我还不是活得那么失败。
"This little sense of accomplishment made me feel like I wasn't living that bad.
」这也是几天来为什么，她哪怕不出门，一天只吃一顿泡面，也要把课备好的原因。
"That's why, even if she didn't go out for a few days, she'd just eat a piece of noodles a day and get her lessons ready.
因为父亲曾经告诉她，「遇到任何事情都不要怕」，以及，「要回报社会」。
Because my father once told her, "Don't be afraid of anything," and, "Give back to society."
实际上，在作业帮这个大集体里，每一个老师都有自己的故事。
In fact, in the homework help this big group, each teacher has his own story.
他们经历过不同的人生，但相同的是对教育都有一样的热情。
They have lived through different lives, but with the same passion for education.
高中语文的杨勇老师，是作业帮「纵横语文」体系的创始人。
Yang Yong, a senior Chinese teacher, is the founder of the "vertical and horizontal Chinese" system.
1979年出生的他，已经算是公司里年纪最大的十个老师之一了。
Born in 1979, he is already one of the ten oldest teachers in the company.
这之前，他已经在公立学校里教了15年书。
Before that, he had taught in public schools for 15 years.
「在公立学校里上课，是一种你20岁，就能看见60岁样子的体验。
"Learning in a public school is a 60-year-old experience you can see when you are 20.
」他辞职，加入作业帮，重新开始琢磨，怎么把新时代的教育做得更适合学生。
"He quit, joined the homework and began anew to figure out how to make education for the new age more suitable for students.
在公司，40岁「高龄」的他，成了公司里每天睡觉时间最短的人。
At the company, the 40-year-old has become the company's shortest bedtime person.
就拿这次免费直播课来说，他每天晚上备课都到了两三点，早上六七点又要爬起来。
In the case of this free live class, he gets ready for class two or three every night and gets up six or seven in the morning.
「现在公司里都是年轻的一代，我再不努力，都要被淘汰了。
"Now the company is a young generation, if I don't work hard, I will be eliminated.
」从零开始打造一个新模式，意味着不断的推翻和重建。
"Building a new model from scratch means constantly overthrowing and rebuilding.
支撑他做下去的，就是对教育的热情。
What sustained him was his enthusiasm for education.
学生和杨勇互动 受访者供图这次作业帮最早决定做面向疫区学生的直播课时，教研组群里的几个老师一致觉得，「要做，肯定就做免费课。
The students and Yang Yong interacted with the respondents that the assignment helped decide the first time to do a live class for students in the affected areas. Several teachers in the research group agreed, "To do it, we must do it for free.
」这更像是一种执念。
"It was more like an obsession.
「可能你再给我3倍工资，我也不会离开作业帮。
"Maybe if you give me three more times my salary, I won't leave my homework.
」高中数学老师张华一直认同的是作业帮的理念，「让每一节课都成为代表作」。
"High school math teacher Zhang Hua has always agreed with the idea of" let every class become a representative work.
他觉得这是一家教育公司应该有的态度，也是他自己的初心。
He felt that this was the attitude an educational company should have, and that it was his first thought.
他创立了「快数学」品牌，是作业帮直播课整个高中数学的负责人。
He founded the "Fast Mathematics" brand and was in charge of the whole high school math class.
大年三十那天，是他负责挨个给老师打电话，催他们提前返回北京。
On New Year's Eve, he was responsible for calling the teachers one by one, urging them to return to Beijing early.
他怀着心理上的压力打这些电话。
He made the calls under psychological pressure.
在他的预期里，让老师们放弃在家团圆，提前返回北京上课，是一件颇为不易的事。
It was not easy, he predicted, for teachers to give up family reunions and return to Beijing early.
那天，他一共打了24个电话，没有一个老师拒绝和退缩。
He made 24 calls that day, and none of the teachers refused or flinched.
没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Not Enough? More exciting stories waiting for you, two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
那些给2000万人上免费直播课的湖北老师们。
Hubei teachers who give 20 million people free live lessons.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "教育培训";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & T; & quot;;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "那些给2000万人上免费直播课的湖北老师们";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Hubei teachers & quot; who & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "忘记那些牵挂的人和事，投入上课中。
var msg _ desc = & quot; forget the people and things that concern you; get involved in class.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
