我守护在武汉金银潭的重症病房。
I guarded the intensive care unit in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
陈德昌说，金银潭医院的重症病人情况比较严重。
Chen Dechang said the situation of serious patients at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was serious.
在他工作的病房里，29个病人有16个都上了呼吸机，同时面临物资短缺的难题。
In the ward where he worked, 16 of the 29 patients had ventilators and faced shortages.
当他们作为上海医疗队进驻时，原有医护人员已连续工作近一个月了。
When they arrived as a Shanghai medical team, the original medical staff had been working continuously for nearly a month.
这次出征，比想象中要艰苦。
The battle was harder than expected.
57岁的陈德昌是上海瑞金医院重症医学科主任、中华医学会重症医学分会侯任主任委员。
Chen Dechang, 57, is director of severe medicine at Shanghai Ruijin Hospital and an appointed director of the Chinese Medical Association's Severe Medicine Division.
他主动请缨，除夕夜随上海医疗队紧急赶到武汉，奔忙在照顾新型冠状病毒重症患者的一线。
He volunteered to go to Wuhan on New Year's Eve with the Shanghai medical team, rushed to care for the new coronavirus patients in the front line.
上海医疗队支援的第一批医护人员136人，来自上海各大医院，主要分成普通救治队70多人和危重症救治队60多人。
The first batch of 136 medical personnel supported by the Shanghai Medical Team came from the major hospitals in Shanghai.
口述 | 陈德昌记者 | 黄子懿支援北三区：救治重症病人我们是1月26日下午正式进驻武汉金银潭医院的，进驻之前经过了一天的防护培训。
Ritual & # 124; Chen DeChang & amp; Yi & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
应该说，金银潭医院的情况还是蛮严重的。
It should be said that the situation at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital is quite serious.
这是武汉专门收治确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎重症患者的医院，有400多个病人分散在各个病区，重症病人大概130-140个。
This is Wuhan special hospital for patients diagnosed with severe coronavirus pneumonia, there are more than 400 patients scattered in the various regions, serious patients about 130-140.
医院主要分为南区和北区，我们上海医疗队负责整体接手北区二楼和北区三楼的病房，加起来70多个病人。
The hospital is divided into the Southern and Northern Sectors. Our Shanghai Medical Team is responsible for taking over the wards on the second and third floors of the Northern District.
北二楼的病人情况稍微好一点，北三楼全是重症病人。
Patients on the second floor of the north are slightly better. The third floor is full of seriously ill patients.
北三区的病房是医院这次专门由普通病房改建的，抢救条件相对简陋一点。
Northern three ward is the hospital this time by the general ward reconstruction, rescue conditions are relatively simple.
我主要负责情况比较重的北三区。
I'm primarily responsible for the more serious situation in the Northern Three Areas.
有29个重症病人，有16个都上了呼吸机，属于危重病人，很多人血氧饱和度只有90%-91%（注：正常值为98%）。
Twenty-nine patients with severe illnesses, 16 of whom were ventilators, were critically ill and many had blood oxygen saturation of only 90-91 per cent (note: normal value 98 per cent).
重症患者中，中老年人会偏多一点，也有30多岁的年轻人。
Among the seriously ill, the middle-aged and elderly tend to be a little bit older, and there are also young people in their 30s.
重症病人的特点就是呼吸困难、肺纤维化，有时候氧气也不容易输进去。
Severe cases are characterized by dyspnea, pulmonary fibrosis, and sometimes oxygen is not readily available.
我们进去的时候，原来的医护人员都非常疲惫了。
When we entered, the old paramedics were very tired.
他们的工作节奏都特别紧张，强度大，人员少，物资紧缺。
Their pace of work is particularly intense, intense, small in personnel and in short supply.
这个病区之前只有7-8个医生，40个护士，大家24小时连轴转，工作量是很大很大的。
There used to be only 7-8 doctors and 40 nurses in this area, all working around the clock and doing a lot of work.
要照顾这么多病人，他们一些人几乎晚上就不回家了，24小时在医院里边，已经有快一个月了，非常累。
To take care of so many patients, some of them do not go home almost at night, 24 hours inside the hospital, has been almost a month, very tired.
另一方面，金银潭还在不停接收新的病人，前两天新开了两个病区。
On the other hand, the gold and silver pools continued to receive new patients, and two new areas were opened the previous two days.
入驻头一天，我下班从病区出来时，救护车正好把病人往里送。
On the first day of stay, when I came out of work from the sick area, the ambulance was taking the patient inside.
所以他们是非常需要支援的。
So they are in great need of support.
这次国家支援湖北，采取了对口支援的模式。
This time, the state supported Hubei by adopting the mode of corresponding support.
除了我们之外，陆军军医大学也支援金银潭医院，主要负责北区4-6楼。
Apart from us, the Army Medical University also supports the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, which is mainly responsible for the 4th-6th floors, North District.
上海医疗队来支援的第一批医护人员136人，来自上海各大医院。
The first batch of 136 medical personnel supported by the Shanghai Medical Team came from major hospitals in Shanghai.
其中医生大概30多人，护士90多人，集中在重症医学、感染科、呼吸科，其他诸如消化、血液等生理学科也有，主要分成普通救治队70多人和危重症救治队60多人。
There are about 30 doctors and more than 90 nurses concentrated in the departments of severe medicine, infectious diseases, respiration, and other physiology, such as digestion and blood, mainly divided into more than 70 general treatment teams and more than 60 critical care teams.
1月23日小年夜，瑞金医院的领导通知我们，说武汉那边情况紧急，上海要组织医疗队过去支援。
January 23 small, Ruijin Hospital leadership informed us that Wuhan side of the emergency, Shanghai to organize medical teams in the past to support.
因为当时说武汉需要重症方面的专家，我刚好也是做重症医疗的，就马上报了名上去。
Because at that time said Wuhan needed experts in severe cases, I happen to be doing severe medical treatment, immediately applied for the name.
我和我爱人都是第二军医大学（海军军医大学）毕业的，军人出身，虽然后来从部队退役转业了，但心里还是有一种军人的责任感。
My wife and I, both graduates of the Second Military Medical University (NMU), were military men who, although later released from military service, had a sense of military responsibility.
2003年SARS时，我也参与了一些防控，但没有到北京小汤山医院这样的一线去。
When SARS came in 2003, I was involved in some prevention and control, but I didn't go to the small Tangshan Hospital in Beijing.
现在国家有难，挺身而出是天职，国家需要你，你总归要到最需要的地方去。
Now that the nation is in trouble, it is its duty to stand up for you, for the country needs you, and you always go where you need it most.
大年三十上午，院里就打电话给我，说报名卫健委通过了，“你赶快去参加培训！”我就急忙赶去培训，培训大概两个多小时，主要讲了一些新型冠状病毒的防护知识。
In the morning of New Year's Day, the hospital called me to say that the registration health care committee adopted, "you go to attend training!" I rushed to training, about two hours, mainly about the new coronavirus protection knowledge.
培训完了后，我问大概什么时候会走？当时得到答复说还没有通知，“估计是要到武汉一个类似的小汤山的新建医院去，可能还要几天时间。
When the training was over, I asked when I would probably leave.When I was told that I hadn't been notified, I thought it would be a few days before I go to the new hospital in Xiaotangshan, Wuhan
”我就回去吃年夜饭去了。
I went back to dinner on New Year's Eve.
除夕夜的傍晚六点，家里年夜饭刚上桌，电话就来了，说：“今天晚上马上就要走！你赶快赶到医院，到医院领完物资就赶快去机场。
New Year's Eve evening at six o'clock, the dinner at home, the telephone came, said: "Tonight is going to leave! You hurry to the hospital, pick up the goods to the airport.
”我匆匆地吃了一碗家里的米饭，然后就出门了。
"I ate a bowl of home rice in a hurry and went out.
家人还是很支持我的，但也不能说完全没有顾虑，主要就是个人的防护。
My family is still very supportive of me, but also can not say that there is no fear, mainly personal protection.
走之前，爱人反复叮嘱我，“一定要做好防护”。
Before leaving, my lover repeatedly told me, "must do a good job of protection."
她帮我准备了一些过年的衣服，我当晚把它穿上，当作是护身符。
She helped me prepare some New Year's Eve clothes, which I put on that night as a talisman.
我也准备了很多个人物品，因为我知道，这次可能短时间内回不来。
I also prepared a lot of personal belongings, because I knew that this time may not be able to return.
防护培训：参照埃博拉病毒上海医疗队大年初一凌晨到的，算比较早的。
Protection training: Reference to the Ebola virus Shanghai medical team arrived in the early morning of the first day of the calculation of early.
到达后还不会立马接手，会有一个长达一天的培训，主要是卫健委安排的专家做一些自我防护的相关培训，要做到医护人员零感染。
After arrival will not immediately take over, there will be a day-long training, mainly health care experts to do some self-protection-related training, to achieve zero infection.
培训的一个重点内容就是如何穿戴防护用品。
A key component of the training was the wearing of protective equipment.
穿戴是什么顺序？卸装是什么顺序？这是很有讲究的。
What is the order of dressing? What is the order of unloading? This is very fastidious.
金银潭的重症病房被分为了几部分，从防护的角度看就是清洁区、缓冲区和污染区。
The intensive care unit of Gold and Silver Pool is divided into several sections, which are clean area, buffer zone and contaminated area from the protection point of view.
防护用品的穿戴在清洁状态下问题不大，但卸装就很重要了。
The wearing of protective equipment in a clean state is not a major problem, but unloading is very important.
你从ICU（重症监护室）里出来，把带病毒的东西卸掉，该用什么顺序？这非常重要，都是被病毒污染的物资，如果顺序不对，很可能会把你暴露。
What order do you use when you come out of ICU and unload something with the virus? It's very important. It's contaminated material, and if it's not in the right order, it's likely to expose you.
这是很危险的，尤其是到病房去以后，环境突然一变，你一慌张，可能就忘了怎么弄了。
This is very dangerous, especially after going to the ward, the environment suddenly changed, you panic, you may have forgotten how to do.
因为工作需要，工作时间必须戴上护目镜，寒冷的冬日里，护目镜上总隔着一层水雾。
Goggles must be worn during working hours because of the demands of work, and on cold winter days there is always a mist over the goggles.
（高星 摄）到达后的第一天，我们都在反复练习，一遍一遍地练习穿戴和卸装，这比飞机上练习带氧气面罩复杂得多，光卸装就得10-20分钟，每个步骤都要消毒。
On the first day of our arrival, we practiced wearing and dismounting over and over again. It was much more complicated than practicing wearing an oxygen mask on an airplane. It took 10 to 20 minutes to uninstall and disinfect every step.
像我身材比较魁梧一点，衣服不是很合身，穿和脱都非常困难，不合身就有暴露的风险，需要反复注意。
Like me, the larger body, clothes do not fit well, wear and take off are very difficult, improper risk of exposure, need repeated attention.
对于医护人员来说，到重症病房里去看重症患者，按照要求必须得有二级防护；但在ICU有时候要做一些非常危险的操作，比如气管插管这些，还需要做到三级防护。
For medical staff, a secondary level of protection is required to see a patient in the intensive care unit, but sometimes there are very dangerous operations in the ICU, such as endotracheal intubation, which requires tertiary protection.
欣慰的是，我们发现，金银潭的医护人员防护做得非常不错，目前医务人员基本上没有被感染的，他们在这方面特别重视和努力。
Thankfully, we found that the health care workers in the Gold and Silver Pool have done a very good job of protection and that the medical staff are largely uninfected.
当然，不是说重症病人的传染性就强，轻症病人也一样传染，只是重症患者可能咳嗽得多，喷出的飞沫比轻症病人多，传染风险稍微大一点。
Of course, this is not to say that severe cases are more contagious, as are light patients, although severe patients may cough more, spew out more droplets and carry a slightly higher risk of infection than light patients.
另一方面比较奇怪的是，金银潭检验科的检验师们从来不接触病人，只是做化验和测试，结果却有4个感染上了。
On the other hand, curiously, the inspectors of the gold and silver pool laboratory never came into contact with the patients.
他们是怎么被传染的呢？专家推测，一种可能性是，在进行化验测试等高危操作时，病人的血液样本暴露在空气里形成气溶胶，气溶胶里的携带病毒就传染给这4个检验师了。
One possibility, experts speculate, is that a patient's blood samples are exposed to aerosols in the air during high-risk operations such as laboratory tests, where the virus carries the virus to the four examiners.
如果是这样，那这病毒是很厉害的，不接触病人，一点血液在外面，变成气溶胶就有可能被传染。
If so, then the virus is very severe, do not touch the patient, a little blood outside, into aerosols can be infected.
传播途径也因此能分为接触传播、飞沫传播、空气传播，主要传播途径它可能都占。
Transmission can therefore be divided into contact transmission, droplet transmission, air transmission, the main means of transmission may be it.
最后，我们内部参照了陆军军医大学应对埃博拉病毒的防护程序，做了多层保护。
Finally, we have built in multiple layers of protection against the Ebola virus from Army Military Medical University.
我之前在ICU工作时也有防护，但主要是防止耐药菌传播，不是特别严格，因为它没什么传染性。
I also had protection when I worked with the ICU, but mainly to prevent the spread of drug-resistant bacteria, not particularly strict, because it is not infectious.
一般就是穿隔离衣、戴口罩和帽子，口罩一般外科口罩就可以了。
General is to wear protective clothing, masks and hats, mask general surgical mask can be.
现在是必须穿防护服了，防护服外面还要穿隔离衣，带护目镜、面罩和口罩，还有两层手套，两层帽子。
Now it was necessary to wear protective clothing, with protective clothing, goggles, face masks and masks, as well as two gloves and two hats.
为了防止感染，有女队员把长发都减掉了。
In order to prevent infection, some of the women have lost their long hair.
我们只有保护好自己，才能救治更多的重症病人。
Only by protecting ourselves can we save more patients from serious diseases.
“来了就是吃苦的”因为我们是整体接手，所以花了时间进行工作交接，目前还蛮顺利，金银潭这边留下了一个联络人，负责配合和协调。
"Coming is bitter." Because we took over as a whole, it took time to make the transition, and it went well, with a liaison person on the side of the gold and silver pool to coordinate and coordinate.
这里物资紧缺状况还是超出之前的预料，原本我们以为医院现有物资可以支撑一个星期，但去了之后一了解，金银潭的防护服总共只剩500套，够使用2天。
The shortage was greater than previously thought. We thought the hospital would have enough supplies for a week, but on going, we found that the gold and silver pool had only 500 suits left, enough for two days.
我们带的物资或许能维持一星期，都是应急用的。
We may be able to carry supplies for a week. They are emergency supplies.
目前物资还是一天一领，比较短缺，我们已经将需求报了上去，相信后续通过协调能有效解决。
At present, the material is still a day, a relative shortage, we have reported the demand, I believe that the follow-up through coordination can be effectively addressed.
由于北三区的病房是普通病房改造的，所以抢救条件很有限。
Because the ward of north 3 area is general ward reformation, the rescue condition is very limited.
一般情况下，普通病房是不能做ICU的，正式ICU里的氧源气源都有一定要求，电力系统都有两套，因为涉及到很多设备的使用。
In general, the general ward is not able to do ICU, the official ICU oxygen source gas source has certain requirements, the power system has two sets, because involves many equipment use.
比如氧气，现在ICU里的插呼吸机的人有16个，再多可能就负荷不起了，因为病房里氧气会不够用。
Oxygen, for example, now has 16 people in ICU who can't afford it at all, because there's not enough oxygen in the room.
设备用多了，电力也会跳闸。
More equipment, and electricity will trip.
我们医生安排是每天6小时一班，夜班是12小时，每5-6天值一次。
Our doctor arranges for a shift of 6 hours a day and a night shift of 12 hours, with a value of 5-6 days.
每天工作这6个小时强度是很大的，要穿着特殊的防护装备在特殊的环境里工作，非常闷，而且病人病情重，但病房条件相对有限，工作会比想象中要艰苦一点。
The six hours a day are intense, work in special protective equipment in a special environment, very stuffy, and the patient is very sick, but the conditions in the ward are relatively limited and the work is a little more difficult than expected.
6个小时里不吃不喝，大小便都不行，一穿一脱都是10-20钟。
Not eating or drinking for six hours, not even urinating, 10 to 20 minutes in a strip.
病人多，我们工作量也很大，医护人员要在ICU进进出出。
The number of patients, our workload is also very large, medical staff in and out of the ICU.
可能我们刚查完房要出来开医嘱，里边病人的病情就有变化，你就又要穿着新的防护服进去，所以每天的物资消耗很大。
Maybe as soon as we're done checking out the room, the patient's condition changes, and you have to wear a new suit, so you're consuming a lot of supplies every day.
刚进来的时候，人手比较紧张。
When I first came in, my hands were tight.
一般ICU里的病人与医生比例是1:0.8，传染病最好是1:1.2，护士要配到1:3、甚至1:3.5，29个病人至少要87个护士。
The average patient-to-doctor ratio in ICUs is 1: 0.8, infectious diseases are ideally 1: 1.2, nurses are assigned to 1: 3, or even 1: 3.5, and 29 patients require at least 87 nurses.
刚进驻的时候北三区只有48名护士，每天要上8个小时班，所以她们非常非常累。
When they first arrived, there were only 48 nurses in the Northern Region, who had to work eight hours a day, so they were very, very tired.
在重症病房不宜工作太长时间，每天理想时长是4个小时，时间一长，口罩一湿，就失去了防护作用。
In the intensive care unit should not work too long, the ideal length of the day is 4 hours, a long time, a wet mask, lost its protective effect.
冬天冷，这8小时还不能开暖气和空调，冻得双手都冻快麻了，非常辛苦。
Winter is cold, this 8 hours can not turn on the heating and air conditioning, frozen hands are almost numb, very hard.
取暖器也不敢多用，怕ICU里跳闸。
Heaters do not dare to use more, afraid of ICU tripping.
经过协调，北二区病房的团队又分配给我们15名护士，原来8小时一班可能会变成6小时。
After coordination, the team in the North Second Ward assigned us another 15 nurses. The eight-hour shift might have turned into six hours.
上海第二批支援医疗队也来了，还有50名护士补充进来，这会大大缓解压力。
The arrival of a second support medical team from Shanghai, supplemented by 50 nurses, will greatly relieve the pressure.
但因为物资短缺，我们也不敢加太多的人手，不然消耗量会很大，这也是一个两难。
But because of the shortage of materials, we dare not add too many people, otherwise the consumption will be very large, this is also a dilemma.
作者：阁阁《我不知道你是谁？但我知道你为了谁！》所以，现有的医护人员会比较辛苦一点。
Author: Cabinet cabinet "I don't know who you are? But I know you for whom!" So, the existing medical staff will be more difficult.
不过来了就是吃苦的，不是来享福的，这个我们大家都有心理准备。
Do not come is to suffer, not to enjoy the well-being of this we all have psychological preparation.
目前一切都在按部就班进行，包括我们医疗上的规则制度都制定好了，在按流程走，也成立了临时党支部。
Everything is now on schedule, including our rules and regulations for health care are in place, and temporary Party branches have been set up along the way.
老党员要放平心态，做好艰苦战斗的准备。
Old Party members should relax their minds and be ready to fight hard.
总体来说，目前一些病人的情况在好转。
In general, the situation of some patients is improving.
我的病房里有一个30多岁的年轻人，已经在里面治疗两个礼拜了，呼吸困难，喘气非常吃力，上了呼吸机。
In my room was a young man in his thirties who had been in the hospital for two weeks, breathing hard, panting, and on to the ventilator.
接手第一天晚上我一看，他的血氧饱和度只有90%左右，我当时想，“居然这么重，可能会比较棘手”。
The first night I took over I saw that his blood oxygen saturation was only about 90 percent, and I thought, "It could be tricky to be so heavy."
当天晚上我们医护人员值班，第二天我去看，血氧饱和度上升到93%，他自己也说感觉好了一点；还有一个40-50岁的病人，有谵妄，有时候会有妄想，情绪非常不稳定。
Our paramedics were on duty that night, and the next day I went to see that blood oxygen saturation had risen to 93% and he himself said he was feeling a little better. There was also a 40-50 year-old patient who had delirium, sometimes delusions, and was emotionally unstable.
我们给了做思想工作，用了药，目前看他的情况也能慢慢稳定。
We gave him thought work and medication, and now we see that his condition is slowly stabilizing.
我们也收了第一个新病人，来的时候，病人情况很危急，血氧饱和度最低只有40％，经过全力抢救，现在病人血氧饱和度上升到了98%，人也清醒过来了。
We also admitted our first new patient, who arrived in a critical condition, with a blood oxygen saturation of at least 40 per cent. After intensive care, the patient's blood oxygen saturation has now risen to 98 per cent and the patient has regained consciousness.
总之，病人还在源源不断地送过来，我们也没有想过什么时候能回去，现在正是需要鼓舞士气的时候。
In short, the flow of patients continued, and we had no idea when we would be able to come back. Now was the time to bring it on.
作者档案黄子懿做好打持久战的准备26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@杰货请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
The author's file, Huang Tzu Yi, prepares for a protracted war 26 minutes ago Three Lives Weekly personal blogs: @ Jie Jie please stamp! Wuhan New Pneumonia Series The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to friends circle, please contact backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
黄子懿。
Huang Tzu Yi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
我守护在武汉金银潭的重症病房。
I guarded the intensive care unit in Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "我守护在武汉金银潭的重症病房";。
var msg _ title = & quot; I guarded & quot; s intensive care unit at Wuhan's Gold and Silver Pool.
var msg_desc = "这次出征，比想象中要艰苦。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; the expedition was tougher than it should have been.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
