备战返京潮：北京各医院全方位防疫、分批次复诊。
Returning to Beijing: Beijing hospitals comprehensive epidemic prevention, sub-batch re-diagnosis.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
The following article comes from 活粒。
The following article comes from living grains.
Author 活粒。
Author live granules.
活粒。
Live granules.
联动三医，桥接资本，直达健康。
Connect three medicine, bridge capital, directly to health.
_北京家庭聚集性病例占比高，说明此前居家医学观察者，防控措施并未做好。
The high percentage of cases of familial agglomeration in Beijing suggests that home medical observers had not done a good job of prevention and control.
节后复工，加之进京求医人员，都在增加第二、三代病例的传播风险，北京医院严阵以待_文 |《财经》记者 辛颖 实习记者 朱贺 编辑 | 王小2月10日，北京市迎来复工第一天，上百万人从全国各地陆续返京，给北京市的疫情防控带来新的挑战。
Resumption of work after the holiday, coupled with visits to Beijing to seek medical attention, is increasing the risk of transmission for second- and third-generation cases. Beijing Hospital is bracing itself for a second and third generation of cases.
同时，由于医疗资源丰富，北京也一直是全国各地患者求医的聚集地，在今年春节后，北京各大医院如何协调疫情防控和日常接诊，压力倍增。
Meanwhile, with its rich medical resources, Beijing has long been a gathering place for patients from all over the country. After the Spring Festival, the pressure on Beijing's major hospitals to coordinate epidemic prevention and treatment has doubled.
据了解，近期从外地来京就医的患者，要先签署一个保证书。
It is understood that recent patients from outside Beijing for medical treatment, should first sign a pledge.
在北京一家三甲医院肿瘤科，患者需要保证最近没有去过疫区，没有发热症状等。
In the oncology department of a three-A hospital in Beijing, patients need to make sure they haven't been to an infected area recently.
对来自武汉的患者，北京多家医院会建议患者返回当地就诊。
For patients from Wuhan, several hospitals in Beijing will advise patients to return to the local clinic.
即便患者保证所述如实，也必须先在京隔离14天。
Even if the patient guarantees the truth, he must remain in isolation in Beijing for 14 days.
但目前，北京各大医院并没有多余的床位接待需要隔离的患者，医生们得尽量减少门诊转住院的病人数量，必须住院的外地患者，只能让他们登记后先自行在院外隔离。
But so far, hospitals in Beijing do not have extra beds for patients in need of isolation. Doctors have to keep the number of patients transferred to hospitals to a minimum, and patients who have to be hospitalized can only be placed in isolation outside the hospital first.
如此严苛的筛查也是防疫形势所迫。
Such stringent screening is also dictated by the epidemiological situation.
就在一周前，北京市公布第一例医护人员聚集性感染新冠肺炎，当事医院正是北京首都医科大学附属复兴医院（下称“复兴医院”）。
Just over a week ago, Beijing announced the first case of conglomerate nosocomial pneumonia in a hospital affiliated with Beijing's Capital Medical University, Renaissance Hospital.
有消息称，复兴医院发热门诊收治一位老年病人，疑似新冠肺炎，可老人和家属隐瞒了接触史，托关系转到心内科重症监护室CCU治疗，导致医护人员感染。
Revival hospital fever clinic admitted a elderly patient, suspected New Crown Pneumonia, but the elderly and their families concealed contact history, referral to the intensive care unit of the Department of Cardiology CCU treatment, resulting in infection.
2月10日，一位复兴医院门诊办公室工作人员告诉《财经》记者，目前没有听说医院主要负责人有任何变动。
On February 10, a staff member of the outpatient office of Renaissance Hospital told Caijing that there had been no news of any change in the hospital's chief staff.
相关部门调查发现，复兴医院的这例聚集性感染，是由首发病例与外部感染者发病后接触造成了医院科室局部范围传播。
The investigation of related departments found that this case of conglomerate infection in the hospital was caused by the contact between the first case and the external infection.
“复兴医院的首发病例并不是老年患者，无武汉旅居史，是接触了有武汉旅居史者后感染的。
"Renaissance hospital is not the first cases of elderly patients, no Wuhan sojourn history, is contact with Wuhan after the sojourner infected.
”北京市疾控中心副主任庞星火向《财经》记者解释。
Pang Xinghua, deputy director of the Beijing CDC, explained to Caijing.
作为北京首例聚集性医护感染事件，这引起了北京各医院足够的重视。
As the first case of conglomerate medical infection in Beijing, this has attracted enough attention from hospitals in Beijing.
多位业内人士向《财经》记者证实，北京多家医院在内部传达了复兴医院感染案例，并强调控制疫情的关键时期，接诊发热等新冠肺炎疑似症状病人，一定严格按规范流程办理。
A number of industry sources confirmed to Caijing that many hospitals in Beijing have conveyed cases of nosocomial infection and stressed the critical period of controlling the epidemic. Patients with suspected symptoms of pneumonia, such as fever, should be treated strictly according to the standard procedure.
截至2月10日24时，北京市累计确诊病例342例，出院48例，死亡3例。
As of 2400 hours on February 10, 342 cases had been confirmed in Beijing, 48 cases had been discharged and 3 cases had died.
其中，共有73例聚集性案例，而家庭聚集性有66例，占比约90%，涉及197例确诊患者。
Of these, there were 73 cases of agglomeration, while 66 cases, or about 90 per cent, involved 197 confirmed cases.
尽管疫情之下，专业人士每日连篇累牍地警示，可北京市疾控中心主任医师吴疆仍指出，就北京目前疫情看，需要居家进行医学观察的对象，并没有都落实好相关措施。
Despite the epidemic and daily warnings from professionals, Wu Xinjiang, director of the Beijing CDC, said the current epidemic situation in Beijing meant that home-based medical observation was not always implemented.
自2月10日，来自全国各地的复工人员陆续大批返京。
Since 10 February, a large number of returning workers from all over the country have returned to Beijing.
北京市卫健委新闻发言人高小俊建议，疫情高发区计划返京人员暂不返京，各地进京看病的暂时尽量不要来。
Beijing health committee spokesman Gao Xiaojun suggested that the high-incidence area planning to return to Beijing personnel temporarily not to Beijing, all over the temporary to Beijing to see doctors try not to come.
各医院分批次复工“复兴医院住院部现在不开诊，何时开放尚不可知。
"The inpatient department of Renaissance Hospital is not open now. When it will open is not known.
”上述复兴医院工作人员称。
The Revival Hospital staff said.
截止2月7日6时，复兴医院6名医务人员、护工4人皆感染，已转至定点医院救治。
As at 0600 hours on 7 February, six medical and nursing staff of the Revival Hospital were infected and referred to designated hospitals for treatment.
近期各地返京人员大增，医院又是患者交叉感染的重要聚集地。
Recently, many people have returned to Beijing, and the hospital is an important gathering place for patients with cross-infection.
血液透析室原本就是医院内感染控制的重中之重，自从疫情发生，其防控措施更是全面升级。
The hemodialysis room was originally the most important part of infection control in the hospital. Since the outbreak, its prevention and control measures have been upgraded.
血液透析室也是医院中少数全年无休的科室之一。
The hemodialysis unit is also one of the few units in the hospital that remain open throughout the year.
因为每周进行三次血液透析的患者，一次都不能停。
Patients undergoing hemodialysis three times a week were not allowed to stop at a time.
记者在现场看到，静静等候在北大人民医院血透室外的患者家属全部戴着口罩，没有人说话。
Reporters at the scene, quietly waiting in the Beijing University People's Hospital blood outside the patient's family wearing masks, no one spoke.
就是在过年期间，北大人民医院血透室的所有仪器都是满员工作状态。
During the Spring Festival, all the instruments in the hemodialysis room of Peking University People's Hospital were fully staffed.
关卡从进入医院就开始，除了医院入口设置的体温检测，进入血透室前还必须再次测量体温。
In addition to the temperature test set at the entrance to the hospital, the temperature must be taken again before entering the hemodialysis room.
北大人民医院血透室负责人甘良英告诉《财经》记者，第一关预检分诊，就要了解每个病人的流行病学史，近期是否去过疫区等，检测体温。
People's Hospital head of the blood room Kan Liangying told Caijing, the first level of pre-screening, we need to know the epidemiological history of each patient, whether recently visited epidemic areas, temperature testing.
一切正常，才能上机透析。
Everything's all right for dialysis.
在疫情期间，血透室的常规消毒从原本每日两次增加到每日四次，两批患者之间，必需保证30分钟以上的通风时间。
During the outbreak, routine sterilization of the hemodialysis unit was increased from two to four times a day, and ventilation time of more than 30 minutes must be guaranteed between two groups of patients.
选择的消毒液浓度也由500mg/L，提升到1000-2000mg/L。
The concentration of the selected disinfectant was also raised from 500 mg / L to 1000-2000 mg / L.
每个病人的单次血透时间在4小时左右。
Each patient had a single hemodialysis time of about 4 hours.
平日里，家属可以陪护病人，还可以送食物进入透析室，现在，这些都停止了，家属只能在外等候。
Families can accompany patients and send food to dialysis rooms on weekdays, but now these are stopped and families have to wait outside.
控制医院人员流动的方案之一，便是分批次放开诊疗。
One of the plans to control the movement of hospital personnel is to liberalize treatment by batches.
春节后，各医院陆续复诊。
After the Spring Festival, hospitals have been repeated.
北京天坛医院在2月3日已恢复日常出诊，北京协和医院临时调整2月3日至2月9日开放半天门诊，至10日全面复诊。
The Beijing Tiantan Hospital resumed regular medical visits on Feb. 3, and the Beijing Concorde Hospital temporarily adjusted its half-day clinic from February 3 to February 9 to 10 for a full revisit.
“我们到目前仍只开半天门诊，何时恢复还未通知。
"We only have half-day clinics so far, and we haven't been informed when.
”上述三甲医院肿瘤科医生介绍。
"The Sanjia Hospital oncologist introduced.
复兴医院的门诊已恢复日常接诊。
Routine consultations have been resumed at the Revival Hospital clinic.
复兴医院是一家三级综合医院，在北京木樨地附近共有两个院区，以及下辖的月坛社区卫生服务中心，三者在地理位置上互相隔离。
Renaissance Hospital, a level-III general hospital, had two courtyard blocks near Muxidi, in Beijing, and the Yuetan Community Health Service Center, which were geographically separated from each other.
2月10日，复兴医院工作人员告诉《财经》记者，月坛院区门诊和月坛社区卫生服务中心全部开放，市民戴口罩去就诊即可，但木樨地院区住院部以及门急诊仍关闭，何时开放未知。
On February 10, Renaissance Hospital staff told Caijing News that the Yuetan courtyard outpatient clinic and Yuetan Community Health Service Center were open to the public, wearing masks, but that the hospital and emergency rooms at Muxidi courtyard remained closed.
2月3日北京市曾通告，复兴医院出现医护人员聚集性感染情况，当时初步确诊9例，其中医护人员5例，住院患者4例，以轻症为主。
February 3, Beijing announced that the revival of the hospital medical personnel in the case of concentrated infection, at the time of the initial diagnosis of 9 cases, including 5 medical staff, 4 patients in hospital, mainly light disease.
此感染事件发生后，《财经》记者了解到，复兴医院CCU所在的南病房楼，最先被全封闭隔离。
After the infection, Caijing reporter learned that the Renaissance Hospital CCU is located in the south ward building, was the first to be completely sealed off.
2月4日，北楼急诊停诊，药房仍然开放，血透室维持工作，楼内全面消毒。
On 4 February, the North Building was closed for emergency treatment, the pharmacy remained open, the hemodialysis room was maintained and the building was fully sanitized.
进入复兴医院需做详细登记，测量体温。
Entrance to the Renaissance Hospital requires detailed registration and temperature measurement.
一位知情人士向《财经》记者透露，此次事件，复兴医院心内科是主要受影响科室，急诊科未受大影响。
A person familiar with the matter told Caijing that the resuscitation of the hospital's cardiology department was the main department affected, and the emergency department was not greatly affected.
2月5日起，该院区进出人员排查再升级，入院检查点从医院门口向外移动约30米，血透室关闭，非工作人员、车辆不得进入，医院门口原本开放的庆丰包子铺也关闭。
Starting on 5 February, the screening of persons entering and leaving the hospital area was upgraded, the admission check-point moved some 30 metres from the hospital gate, the hemodialysis room was closed to non-staff personnel and vehicles, and the previously open Gyeongfeng Bao Zi shop in front of the hospital was closed.
在此期间，对木樨地院区南楼、北楼，月坛院区门诊部等所有的医护人员、患者、护工及行政后勤人员进行检测排查。
During this period, all the medical staff, patients, nurses, and administrative logisticians worked at Muxidi courtyard, south, north, and Yuetan courtyard, etc.
停止复兴医院住院部与门诊部、月坛社区卫生服务中心的医护人员工作交流，对未在岗医护人员进行居家隔离观察。
The inpatient department of the hospital and the outpatient department, Yuetan community health service center of the work exchange, not on-the-job medical personnel for home isolation observation.
庞星火介绍，排查后，认为此起疫情波及范围局限，目前没有造成进一步扩散。
Pang Xing-fire, after screening, believed that the epidemic affected the scope of the limited, did not cause further proliferation.
此外，虽然复兴医院已经严格隔离，但周边社区居民的活动并未受影响，与复兴医院仅一墙之隔的木樨地北里小区的居民介绍出入正常，小区也一如此前进行体温检测等进出人员排查。
Moreover, although the hospital had been reactivated in strict isolation, residents of surrounding communities remained unaffected, with residents of Muxidi's northern neighborhood, just one wall away from the hospital's resuscitation hospital, introduced normal access to Muxidi's residential area, which also underwent in-and-out body temperature checks, among others.
患者数量尚未骤增全面复工第一天，2月10日清晨八点的早高峰，北京地铁七号线一节车厢只有5个人；下午5点，昔日拥挤不堪的10号线，也仅寥寥数人。
The number of patients has not yet surged. On February 10, the morning rush hour at 8 a.m., there were only five people in a train on Line 7 of the Beijing subway.
到2月11日，早上7点40分，乘坐地铁10号线的人才明显多了起来。
By 7: 40 a.m. on February 11, the number of people taking the subway line 10 was noticeably higher.
尽管对重点工业企业，北京开复工率预计可达95%，然而，北京的街道一片空寂，往日的拥堵不复存在，大多可选择的企业，仍然要求员工在家远程办公。
Beijing's streets are deserted, old gridlock is gone and most alternative businesses still require telecommuting at home, despite an estimated 95 per cent resumption rate for key industrial companies.
北京市交通委第二次推迟了恢复机动车尾号限行措施。
Beijing Traffic Committee postponed the second time to resume the vehicle tail restrictions.
笼罩在疫情中的北京尚未苏醒，医院更是人们唯恐避之不及的地方。
Beijing, shrouded in an epidemic, has yet to wake up, and hospitals are places that people fear to avoid.
在孕产妇平日需要排队建档的一家妇产医院，一位产科主治医生2月10日下午的门诊，有20%的预约患者没来。
At a maternity hospital, which is lined up for maternity days, an obstetrician attended an afternoon consultation on February 10, when 20% of patients were absent.
“预约号来与不来，医生没办法控制，也不可能逐一电话通知。
"The doctor has no control over the appointment numbers, and it's impossible to call them all.
针对低风险的孕妇，我们适当延长了产检的间隔，但对于高风险者，还是需要如期产检，毕竟孕产妇及胎儿的安全也很重要。
For low-risk pregnant women, we have increased the interval between check-ups, but high-risk people, still need to be scheduled, after all, maternal and fetal safety is also important.
”上述产科主治医生对《财经》记者说。
"The obstetrician told Caijing.
在疫情期间，需要定期产检的孕产妇也一直是各家医院关注的重点。
During the epidemic period, the need for regular prenatal check-ups of pregnant women has also been the focus of attention in hospitals.
在北京复兴医院聚集性感染事件中，也有孕产妇因医院停诊受到影响。
In the event of conglomerate infection in Beijing Renaissance Hospital, there are also cases of pregnant women affected by hospital terminations.
据相关负责人介绍，目前，北京复兴医院受到影响的孕产妇已经安排妥当转院。
According to the relevant officials, Beijing Renaissance Hospital has been affected by the maternal arrangements have been properly transferred to the hospital.
在接受孕产妇转院之一的北京大学第一医院，一位工作人员告诉《财经》记者，由上级指定转诊名单，安排过来的我们都接收。
At Peking University Hospital No. 1, which receives one of the referrals, a staff member told Caijing that we accept all referrals made by higher-level staff.
转诊孕产妇都是严格按照诊疗流程，入院先进行体温检测排查，后续诊疗与正常孕妇一样。
Referral of pregnant women are strictly in accordance with the process of diagnosis and treatment, the admission of body temperature screening, follow-up with normal pregnant women.
北京丰台医院产科门诊工作人员介绍，“之前有一个复兴医院的孕妇来做过检查，孕妇都可以正常入院检查。
"There was a pregnant woman who had been admitted to the hospital for check-ups and all of them could be admitted normally," said the obstetrician-clinic staff at Fengtai Hospital in Beijing.
不过现在疫情紧张，如果身体没什么问题可以推迟几周再来。
But now the outbreak is tense and can be delayed for a few weeks if there is nothing wrong with your health.
”为防止潜在的感染扩散，各医院对诊疗、收治患者都有所限制。
Hospitals limit the number of patients they see and treat in order to prevent potential infections from spreading.
《新京报》报道，中日友好医院的一位武汉来京的发热肺炎患者，曾以“重症甲流”收入院，2月5日确诊感染新冠肺炎后，医院立刻采取了隔离措施。
A case of fever pneumonia in Beijing from the China-Japan Friendship Hospital was admitted to hospital with severe swine flu on February 5, the Beijing News reported.
中日友好医院呼吸与危重症医学科四部医务人员告诉《财经》记者，该科室从5号开始已不收病人，何时再收需要等通知。
China-Japan Friendship Hospital Respiratory and Critical Medical Department, four medical staff told Caijing that the department has not collected patients since No.5, when to collect the required notice.
该科室一部护士站也介绍，停止接收病人后，“目前科室就剩五个病人”。
One of the department's nurses also introduced, stop receiving patients, "at present there are only five patients in the department."
“此前部分医护人员感染的案例提示，感染往往发生在不是重点防控的普通病区，来了一个非发热的潜伏期病人，由于没有做好基本个人防护，造成感染。
"Previous cases of infection by some health-care workers have suggested that infections often occur in common disease areas that are not the focus of prevention and control, with a non-febrile latency period causing infection due to a lack of basic personal protection.
”上海瑞金医院感控科主任倪语星向《财经》记者分析。
"Shanghai Ruijin Hospital sensibility control department director Ni Xing to" Caijing "reporter analysis.
随着第一代输入性病例逐步控制，第二代没有去过武汉，但是接触过武汉人的病例，以及第三代本地人传人的病例，将要成为节后复工的防控重点。
With the gradual control of the first generation of imported cases, the second generation has not been to Wuhan, but contact with Wuhan cases, as well as third-generation native-to-human transmission, will be the focus of prevention and control after the holiday.
倪语星指出，节后医院正常的门急诊开放，使院感防控工作面临双重巨大压力，既要做好发热门急诊、隔离留观病人的重点防控工作，又要做好日常医疗中的防控工作。
Ni Yingxing pointed out that the hospital after the opening of normal emergency door and emergency work, so that the hospital sense of prevention and control work face double enormous pressure, not only to do a good job of fever, emergency care, isolation patients focus on prevention and control, but also to do a good job in routine medical prevention and control.
（《财经》记者孙爱民对此文亦有贡献）（本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载。
("Caijing" reporter Sun Aimin also contributed to this article) (This article is "Caijing" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reproduce.
）▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
For more information about the outbreak, see below: Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
备战返京潮：北京各医院全方位防疫、分批次复诊。
Returning to Beijing: Beijing hospitals comprehensive epidemic prevention, sub-batch re-diagnosis.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "备战返京潮：北京各医院全方位防疫、分批次复诊";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "北京家庭聚集性病例占比高，说明此前居家医学观察者，防控措施并未做好。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Beijing has had a high incidence of home-gathering, which means that home medical observers didn't do enough to prevent it.
节后复工，加之进京求医人员，都在增加第二、三代病例的传播风险，北京医院严阵以待";。
Resumption of work after the holiday, coupled with visits to Beijing to seek medical attention, has increased the risk of second and third-generation transmission.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
