追踪钻石公主号：邮轮上有两名内地乘客，一人已确诊。
Tracking Princess Diamond: There are two mainland passengers on board and one has been confirmed.
杨立赟。
Yang Liyun.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_一名香港游客感染了新冠肺炎病毒，使得这艘邮轮的“春节之旅”演变为一场全球直播的公共卫生事件_文 |《财经》记者 杨立赟 余乐编辑 | 余乐最近一周以来，停靠在日本横滨港的“钻石公主号”邮轮成为了全球关注的焦点。
A Hong Kong tourist has been infected with the New Crown Pneumonia virus, turning the cruise's Spring Festival cruise into a live global public health event. Caijing journalist Yang Liyun Yuk-yuk has been the focus of global attention for the past week.
因一名先期下船的乘客确诊新冠肺炎，这艘船上的3700多名乘客和船员均被要求不得下船，可能被感染的恐慌开始在这个独特的隔离场所中蔓延。
More than 3,700 passengers and crew members of the ship were told not to disembark after an early passenger was confirmed with pneumonia, and fears of possible infection began to spread in this unique quarantine area.
2月11日，公主邮轮方面向《财经》披露了中国籍乘客的信息。
On Feb. 11, the princess disclosed information about Chinese passengers to Caijing.
钻石公主号上一共有286名中国籍乘客，包括2名中国内地乘客、260名中国香港乘客、2名中国澳门乘客、22名中国台湾乘客。
The Princess is carrying 286 passengers of Chinese nationality, including 2 from the Mainland of China, 260 from Hong Kong, China, 2 from Macao, China and 22 from Taiwan, China.
公主邮轮方面称，截至2月10日，共有5名中国籍乘客被确诊感染了新型冠状病毒，其中包括一名内地乘客。
As of February 10, five passengers of Chinese nationality had been diagnosed with the new coronavirus, including a mainland passenger, the princess said.
这五人已经由日本当地公共卫生部门带离下船，前往当地医院治疗。
The five have been taken off the ship by local public health authorities and taken to local hospitals for treatment.
根据凤凰卫视驻日记者李淼的报道，钻石公主号上的中国内地人士一共有22人。
According to the Phoenix Satellite TV correspondent Li Miao, the number of mainland Chinese aboard the Princess Diamond stood at 22.
如果这一数字属实，那么船上的内地船员人数为20人。
If that were true, the number of mainland crew on board would be 20.
“梨视频国际拍客”的报道也称内地船员在20人左右。
"Pear video international filming" the report also said that the mainland crew of about 20.
但截止目前，公主邮轮未透露船员国籍信息。
But so far, the princess did not disclose the crew's nationality information.
整体来看，这艘邮轮上的2666名乘客中，近一半来自日本，另一半由美国、澳大利亚、英国、加拿大、中国、新西兰、俄罗斯、意大利等多个国家的居民组成。
Overall, nearly half of the 2,666 passengers aboard the cruise ship came from Japan, while the other half consisted of residents from the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, China, New Zealand, Russia and Italy.
除了乘客，邮轮上还有1045名船员。
In addition to the passengers, there were 1,045 crew members on board.
到2月11日为止，乘客和船员们已经在钻石公主号上度过了23天。
By February 11, passengers and crew had spent 23 days aboard the Princess Diamond.
一位不愿具名的日本籍男性乘客通过网络接受了《财经》记者的采访。
A Japanese male passenger, who declined to be named, was interviewed online by Caijing.
他说自己住在一间海景房（有窗户，无阳台）里，目前情绪平稳。
He said he lives in a sea view room (with windows and no balcony) and is in a stable mood.
“大多数人都比较平和。
"Most people are more peaceful.
（如果被感染）潜伏期很长，发脾气一点好处也没有。
The incubation period is long and losing temper is not good at all.
”他说。
'he said.
从2月3日晚上11点开始，乘客就被通知在房间里隔离。
From 11 p.m. on February 3, passengers were told to remain in quarantine in their rooms.
一日三餐由工作人员送到房间，但不允许乘客和工作人员交谈。
Three meals a day were delivered to the room by the staff, but passengers and staff were not allowed to talk.
这名乘客称已经接受了检测，结果显示他没有感染病毒。
The passenger said he had been tested and results showed he was not infected with the virus.
2月11日钻石公主号上乘客的晚餐。
Dinner for passengers aboard the Princess Diamond on 11 February.
供图/钻石公主号乘客（推特@daxa_tw）公主邮轮方面表示，目前乘客可在每日菜单上选择食物和饮料，由船员直接送至舱房。
In the case of Princess Tut / Princess Diamond (Twitter @ daxa _ tw), passengers can now select food and drink from the daily menu and ship them directly to the cabin.
部分乘客可以拥有固定的户外活动时间。
Some passengers can have a fixed time for outdoor activities.
乘客在户外活动时，船员会对舱房进行彻底清洁，包括换洗干净床单和毛巾。
During outdoor activities, the crew will thoroughly clean the cabin, including changing clean sheets and towels.
据悉，日本政府为钻石公主号提供7000个防护口罩、16名医生、12名护士及医疗接待人员等物资和人力支持。
The Japanese government is said to have provided 7,000 face masks, 16 doctors, 12 nurses and medical personnel to support the Princess Diamond.
此外，公主邮轮方面已收到约2000个药品补缺需求，这些需求将根据紧急程度进行优先次序处理2月5日，钻石公主号在海上隔离的第一天，身着防护服的日本政府人员上船进行检测。
In addition, the Princess Cruise has received approximately 2,000 medical supply gaps, which will be prioritized according to the degree of urgency. On 5 February, on the first day of separation at sea, the Princess Diamonds was put on board a ship and tested by Japanese Government personnel in protective clothing.
供图/钻石公主号乘客一场全球直播的公关卫生事件突如其来的疫情和隔离让船上的人员猝不及防。
Passenger 1: The sudden outbreak and isolation of a public health event broadcast live around the world caught the crew off guard.
他们被隔离在各自的房间内，不能自由出入。
They were isolated in their respective rooms and had no free access.
一些患有基础病的老年人更是面临着痛苦和生命危险。
Some older persons with basic illnesses are at greater risk of suffering and loss of life.
互联网成了这3000多人的窗口。
The Internet has become a window for more than 3,000 people.
船上已开通免费网络和电话通信服务。
Free Internet and telephone communication services are available on board.
在最初的恐惧、焦虑之后，人们拿起手机，开始利用现代科技互助和自救。
After initial fears and anxieties, people picked up their cell phones and began to use modern technology to help each other and save themselves.
他们在社交媒体上公布船上的情况，对外求助，同时在乘客内部建立虚拟群组，相互打气。
They advertise the ship on social media, ask for help, and create virtual groups among passengers to cheer each other up.
虽然目前看来这并不能改变在海上漂泊的境遇，但多少能释放一些压力。
It doesn't seem to be changing the ocean drift, but it does release some of the stress.
中国台湾的魔术师陈日昇，因为工作的关系被困在这艘邮轮上。
Sun Chen, a magician in Taiwan, China, was stranded on the cruise ship because of his work.
1月27日，他从越南登上钻石公主号，在船上的剧场为乘客表演魔术，原定2月4日在日本横滨下船，未料遭遇疫情围困。
On 27 January, he boarded the Princess Diamond from Viet Nam and performed magic tricks for passengers in the ship's theatre. He was due to disembark in Yokohama, Japan, on 4 February, only to encounter an outbreak of siege.
他通过自己的脸书（Facebook）主页发布了一些视频，向外报告船上的情况。
He posted videos on his Facebook page to report on the ship.
“我现在没有发烧，但有咳嗽，船上规定必须发烧才能筛检，所以我也无法去做筛检。
"I don't have a fever now, but I have a cough and I have a fever on board to screen, so I can't go for a screening," she said.
船上目前医疗人力资源吃紧。
Medical human resources on board are currently strained.
”陈日昇在2月9日说，船上提供了心理咨询专线 , 提供给精神压力大的客人。
Chen Sun Sun on Feb. 9 said the ship offered psychological counselling lines to stressed-out guests.
此前，船长广播一些特定楼层的乘客可以分批离开房间放风。
Previously, the captain had announced that passengers on certain floors would be allowed to leave the room in batches.
据悉，一名麦姓中国台湾乘客发出求救信称，“85岁老人家都咳出血了，病例又不停地增加，在这无阳光、无新鲜空气的内舱，真的要求不多，至少先让家父出去，下船隔离。
"The 85-year-old has coughed up blood and the number of cases is on the increase," said a Taiwanese passenger surnamed Mak. "In this sunless, fresh air-free cabin, we really don't ask much, at least let my father go out and get off the boat.
我能让日本政府继续隔离检疫。
I can keep the Japanese government quarantined.
”对于英国人大卫·亚伯（David Abel）来说，这注定是一个难忘的金婚。
For David Abel, an Englishman, it was destined to be an unforgettable golden wedding.
他和妻子来自英国，为庆祝结婚50周年而登上钻石公主号。
He and his wife, from England, boarded the Princess Diamond to celebrate her 50th wedding anniversary.
在海上隔离后，每天在Facebook直播成了他的任务和乐趣。
After being isolated at sea, it became his mission and pleasure to live it live on Facebook every day.
他们夫妇住在一个阳台套房内。
The couple live in a balcony suite.
相对住在内舱的乘客，他们够拥有更舒畅的活动范围和心情。
They have a more comfortable range of activities and moods than passengers who live in the inner cabin.
他非常在意船上的免费wifi信号是否稳定，除了实时公布船上的动态，还尽量满足一些私信请求，比如拍一张海面的全景照片给网友看。
He was concerned about the stability of the ship's free Wifi signals and tried to satisfy personal requests, such as a panoramic view of the sea, in addition to posting real-time news of the ship's progress.
为了帮助乘客们打发时间，邮轮上已经新增了电视直播频道、30种语言的新闻报纸以及50多部不同语言的电影。
To help passengers pass the time, new live television channels, newspapers in 30 languages and more than 50 films in different languages have been added to the cruise.
船上还开通了英语和日语的心理服务热线，为精神压力大的乘客进行心理疏导。
The ship also opened a psychological service hotline in English and Japanese to provide psychological counselling for high-stress passengers.
2月10日，公主邮轮宣布，该航次所有乘客将获得全额退款，包括船票、机票、酒店住宿、地面交通、预付岸上观光费、本航程服务费和其它相关费用。
On 10 February, Princess Cruise announced that all passengers on the cruise would receive a full refund, including boat tickets, air tickets, hotel accommodation, ground transportation, advance shore excursions, voyage services and other related charges.
在船上隔离期间，乘客也无需支付任何附加费用。
Passengers are also not required to pay any additional charges during the period of ship isolation.
“春节之旅”演变为一场困局钻石公主号隶属于公主邮轮，后者是全球最大的邮轮公司——嘉年华（Carnival）旗下的一个子品牌。
The trip turned into a battle of woes with the Princess Diamond, a sub-brand of Carnival, the world's largest cruise company.
资料显示，公主邮轮目前共有18艘船，运行于全球各地的航线。
According to the data, the Princess Cruise currently has 18 ships operating on routes all over the world.
2017年，公主邮轮旗下的盛世公主号完成了以上海为母港的首航，这也是该公司第一次进入中国内地市场。
In 2017, the Princess Saatchi, the princess' s flagship, completed her maiden voyage to Shanghai as her home port, the company's first foray into the mainland market.
目前，公主邮轮暂无以中国内地为母港的航线。
At present, the Princess Cruise has no route to Mainland China as her home port.
该公司原计划于2020年6月重返内地市场，由钻石公主号的姐妹船——蓝宝石公主号执行从上海出发的航线，但受此次疫情事件的影响，目前6月3日和11日的航次已经取消。
The company had planned to return to the mainland market in June 2020 with the Princess Sapphire sister ship, the Princess Sapphire, on a flight from Shanghai, but the current flights of 3 and 11 June were cancelled as a result of the outbreak.
钻石公主号于2004年下水服役，吨位为11.6万吨，可容纳2670名乘客和1100名船员。
The Princess Diamond was launched into service in 2004. Its tonnage is 116,000 tons and can accommodate 2,670 passengers and 1,100 crew members.
在当前的邮轮世界中，这样一艘船属于中等规模。
In the current world of cruise ships, such a ship is of medium size.
2018年起，钻石公主号开始以横滨为母港的航线，主要目的地为东南亚地区。
Since 2018, Princess Diamond began to Yokohama as the home port of the route, the main destination for South-East Asia.
1月20日，载有2666名乘客和1045名船员的钻石公主号从横滨港出发，开始执行为期15天的“东南亚春节之旅”。
On January 20, the Princess Diamond, with 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members on board, began a 15-day trip from Yokohama to Southeast Asia for the Spring Festival.
按照计划，邮轮将依次经停鹿儿岛、香港、岘港、下龙湾、台北、冲绳，再返回横滨。
According to the plan, the cruise ship will stop at Kagoshima, Hong Kong, Danang, Ha Long Wan, Taipei, Okinawa and then return to Yokohama.
图：钻石公主号1月20日航次路线图。
Photo: Map of the Diamond Princess sailing on 20 January.
来源：iglucruise.com半个月的行程已经属于长线，但乘客和船员们都没有想到，他们在船上度过的时间会远远超过这个期限。
www.iglucruise.com The half-month trip was already long, but neither the passengers nor the crew expected them to spend much longer on board.
旅行的前半程一切正常。
The first half of the trip was all right.
1月25日，钻石公主号抵达香港，一名80岁的香港游客下船。
On January 25, the Princess Diamond arrived in Hong Kong and an 80-year-old Hong Kong tourist disembarked.
他是1月17日从香港乘飞机抵达东京的，之前还于1月10日从罗湖口岸进入深圳，逗留了几小时。
He arrived in Tokyo by air from Hong Kong on January 17, after spending a few hours in Shenzhen from the Lo Wu crossing on January 10.
后来的调查显示，这名游客曾于1月22日与其他游客一起乘坐大巴在鹿儿岛观光，次日还使用了船上的按摩浴池和桑拿设施。
A later investigation revealed that the tourist had taken a bus tour of Kagoshima on January 22 with other tourists and used a massage bath and sauna on the next day.
1月30日，这名香港游客出现发热症状，2月1日被确诊感染了新冠肺炎，此时距离他下船的时间已过了七天，钻石公主号正停靠在冲绳。
The Hong Kong tourist, who developed fever on January 30, was diagnosed with pneumonia on February 1, seven days after he got off the ship and the Princess Diamond was docking in Okinawa.
在这七天里，浑然不知危险已经降临的乘客们仍在享受着旅途，那名香港感染者曾经出入过的公共场所也照常开放。
For seven days, passengers who had no idea of the danger were still enjoying their journey, and the public place to which the Hong Kong-infected man had once been had been opened.
2月3日，钻石公主号按原定计划返回横滨港，日本厚生省随即宣布全体乘客和船员均不得下船，执行为期14天的隔离和检疫。
On February 3, the Princess of Diamonds returned to Yokohama harbour as planned, and the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Welfare announced that all passengers and crew members would not be allowed to disembark for a period of 14 days.
此时，船上已经陆续有人报告发热症状。
By this time, fever symptoms had been reported on board.
2月4日，日本方面宣布船上10人确诊感染，5日又确诊10人。
On February 4, the Japanese side announced that 10 people on board the ship confirmed the infection, and another 10 people were confirmed on February 5.
随后几天，确诊数字更是加速攀升，截至2月10日已达135人。
In the days that followed, the number of confirmed cases accelerated, reaching 135 as at 10 February.
由于检测能力有限，目前接受检测的人员只占船上3700多人中的一小部分。
Because of limited testing capacity, only a small fraction of the more than 3,700 people on board are currently being tested.
截至2月9日，接受检测的只有336人，其中即已有70人确诊，占全部被测人员的五分之一。
As at 9 February, only 336 persons had been tested, of whom 70, or one fifth, had been diagnosed.
不过，按照日本厚生省的说法，有发热症状的人和老人会得到优先检测。
However, according to the MHLW, people with fever symptoms and the elderly will be given priority testing.
日本官房长官菅义伟在10日的新闻发布会上称，以目前的条件，对所有人实行检测“有难度”。
Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Naoto Kan said at a news conference on the 10, the current conditions, all testing "difficult."
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
追踪钻石公主号：邮轮上有两名内地乘客，一人已确诊。
Tracking Princess Diamond: There are two mainland passengers on board and one has been confirmed.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "追踪钻石公主号：邮轮上有两名内地乘客，一人已确诊";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Tracking the Diamond Princess: There were two mainland passengers on board, and one was diagnosed with & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "一名香港游客感染了新冠肺炎病毒，使得这艘邮轮的“春节之旅”演变为一场全球直播的公共卫生事件";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; A Hong Kong tourist was infected with the New Crown Pneumonia virus, turning the cruise's Spring Festival into a live global public health event and quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
