一线医生口述：疫情期间，泡面是最好的朋友。
First-line doctors oral: During the epidemic, bubble noodles is the best friend.
喵葵 桐医生。
Dr. Meow Kwan Tong.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
“我不害怕，我们是专业的医务人员。
"I'm not afraid. We're medical professionals.
我相信我们能战胜这次疫情。
I believe we can overcome this epidemic.
就是想起家人，我……”桐医生突然哽咽了起来。
Just think of my family, I... "Dr. Tong suddenly choked up.
我们已经在电话里聊了半小时她的工作。
We've been chatting over the phone for half an hour about her work.
她本来还在不停地跟我开着玩笑，可提到“家”这个字的时候，她的情绪突然急转直下。
She was still joking with me all the time, but when she mentioned the word "home," her mood suddenly dropped sharply.
我有点慌了，说了好几声“喂喂喂”，电话那头却安静了好几分钟。
I panicked and said several times, "Hello," but the other end of the line was quiet for several minutes.
她终于又开始出声：“这几天我很压抑，但我不能在家人面前哭，怕他们担心；也不能在护士面前哭，护士的年纪小，我得给他们做个榜样。
"I've been depressed these days, but I can't cry in front of my family for fear of them, I can't cry in front of the nurse, I have to set an example for them.
”插画 | 陈志远到今天为止，她已经连续十五天没见过自己的孩子了。
Chen Zhiyuan has not seen her children for 15 days in a row.
桐医生是广东佛山某个基层医院中医科的主治医师，武汉封城以后，广东省启动重大公共卫生事件一级响应，她所在的医院也临时组织了一个24人的防疫工作小组，进行发热病人的初级筛选工作。
After the closure of Wuhan, the chief physician of a basic Chinese medicine department at Foshan Hospital in Guangdong Province, Guangdong Province launched a major public health event first-level response, and her hospital temporarily organized a 24-member epidemic prevention team to conduct primary screening of febrile patients.
其中包括18名护士和6名医生，囊括了全院每个科室的精干力量，就连骨科、外科也派出了同事支援。
They included 18 nurses and six doctors, covering the entire department of the hospital, even orthopaedic, surgical staff support.
她是队伍中的成员之一，从大年初一开始，整个工作小组进入隔离状态，没有人再回过家。
She is one of the members of the team, from the beginning of the New Year, the entire working group into isolation, no one has ever returned home.
她只是一个非常普通的医生，既不是武汉传染病房的一线人员，也不是最危重病房的医生。
She is just a very ordinary doctor, neither Wuhan infectious disease room front-line staff, nor the most critical ward of doctors.
在全国一线医务人员的浩瀚大海中，她只是最不起眼的一滴海水。
In the vast ocean of front-line medical workers across the country, she is only the most insignificant drop of water.
她的喜怒哀乐都是如此平凡，但是在这场不平凡的战役中，她的故事也是千万人的故事。
Her moods and sorrows are so ordinary, but in this extraordinary campaign, her story is the story of millions of people.
以下是她的自述。
The following is her account of herself.
口述 | 桐医生作者| 喵葵判断他是不是医务人员要看他膀胱能力好不好走进24小时灯火通明的发热门诊大厅，已经是深夜十点半了。
It was half past ten in the night to see if medical personnel needed to see if his bladder was strong enough to walk into the brightly lit 24-hour fever clinic.
但我必须抓紧时间，才能在规定的时间内抵达我的工作区，跟下晚班的同事完成交接。
But I had to hurry to get to my work area within the allotted time to complete the handover with my colleagues on the following night shift.
整个发热门诊的面积不过两百平左右，但是要从门口进入我的工作区域，需要通过三道关卡：清洁区、缓冲区和隔离区。
The total area of the fever clinic was only about 200 square metres, but access to my work area from the entrance required three checkpoints: the cleaning area, the buffer zone and the area of separation.
首先我要在清洁区穿日常工作服、戴上第一层口罩和手套。
First, I would like to wear daily work clothes, first layer mask and gloves in the cleaning area.
再进入缓冲区，戴上第二层口罩和手套，并换上防护服。
Reenter the buffer zone, put on a second mask and gloves, and change into protective clothing.
戴两层口罩是因为当时N95断货了，如果有了N95戴一层就够了。
The reason for wearing two masks was that N95 was out of stock at the time.
最后进入隔离区，穿隔离衣并带上防护目镜。
Finally, enter the area of separation, wearing protective clothing and glasses.
每完成一个动作，都要进行一次手部消毒。
A hand disinfection is performed for each action performed.
整套流程分成二十几个步骤，要进行十几次消毒，全部完成至少耗时半小时以上。
The whole process is divided into more than 20 steps, more than a dozen disinfection, all completed in at least half an hour.
不能漏掉任何步骤，稍有不慎，便会对无菌更衣间造成污染。
Do not omit any steps. A little carelessness will result in contamination of sterile dressing rooms.
很多同事的双手都因过多的消毒变白了。
Many of my colleagues have turned white with too much disinfection.
即便穿防护服的流程很繁琐，但这段时间没有一个同事会因此耽误交接班，每个人到岗都很准时，这是这几天最让我觉得感动的事情。
Even though the process of wearing protective clothing is cumbersome, no one in this period of time will delay the handover, everyone is very punctual to the post, this is the most touching thing these days.
凌晨11点，我全副武装地进入工作区，打开电脑查看工作文件，我们每天都有新的内容需要学习，包括新型肺炎的症状、诊断标准等等。
At 11 a.m., I entered the work area fully armed, opened my computer to view the working papers, and we had new things to learn every day, including symptoms of new pneumonia, diagnostic criteria, and so on.
为了保证通风，发热门诊没有安装取暖装置。
To ensure ventilation, the heating clinic is not equipped with heating devices.
晚上天气很冷，我想喝点热水，但刚拿起杯子我就放下了。
It was very cold at night, I want to have some hot water, but I put down the cup as soon as I picked it up.
因为从现在开始直到明天早上8点下班，在长达9小时的时间里，我都不能去厕所。
Because from now until 8: 00 tomorrow morning, I can't go to the bathroom for nine hours.
因为工作需要，工作时间必须戴上护目镜，寒冷的冬日里，护目镜上总隔着一层水雾。
Goggles must be worn during working hours because of the demands of work, and on cold winter days there is always a mist over the goggles.
（高星 摄）由于防护服是一次性的，每去一次厕所都要换一次防护服，这就等于要重新走一遍进入工作区域的流程，为了节省这个时间，几乎所有的医生在上班时间内都不会去厕所。
Because protective clothing is disposable, changing the suit every time you go to the toilet means walking through the work area again. To save time, almost all doctors don't use the restroom during office hours.
我们只是佛山的一个基层医院，主要负责对发热病人做出初步甄别和筛选，工作强度远远低于在武汉定点医院工作的医生，但是我们仍然只能在交接班时换下防护服。
We are just a basic hospital in Foshan, which is mainly responsible for the initial screening and screening of febrile patients, the intensity of work is far less than that of doctors working in Wuhan Ding Hospital, but we can only change protective clothing when the shift takes place.
而在武汉工作的一线医生，每天的接待量是我们的几十倍。
And the first-line doctors working in Wuhan, the daily amount of reception is our dozens of times.
所以他们干脆在防护服里穿上纸尿裤，节省上厕所的时间。
So they simply put on diapers in protective clothing to save time on the toilet.
我们医院也会给医生发纸尿裤，但是我很抗拒，就宁愿不吃不喝不上厕所。
Our hospital will also give the doctor diapers, but I resist, would rather not eat not to drink toilet.
我们执行三班倒的流程，白班的时间是从早上8：00到下午5：30，如果坚决不穿纸尿裤的话，憋尿将成为一个巨大的挑战。
We run a three-shift system, with daytime shifts running from 8: 00 a.m. to 5: 30 p.m. If we are determined not to wear paper diapers, then pissing up can be a huge challenge.
有一次我快下班了，护士过来问我，你真的不去厕所啊？我打了个尿颤，说我不去，还能忍。
One time when I was about to leave work, the nurse came to me and asked, Are you sure you're not going to the bathroom? I had a piss and said I wouldn't go.
我们经常拿这个开玩笑，比如在交接班的时候，交班的人说我现在又饿又累，接班的人就会来一句：还尿急。
We used to joke about it, for example, when the shift workers said I was hungry and tired, and the successor would say, Urging.
然后两个人很有默契地大笑。
Then the two of them had a good laugh.
在中国，医生有一个不成文的共识，判断一个人是不是医务人员，第一看他磅胱好不好，第二看他吃饭快不快。
In China, doctors have an unwritten consensus about whether a person is a medical worker. The first looks at his bladder, and the second sees how fast he eats.
就算是平时出诊，我也很少在上班时间去厕所，因为病人多而医生少，去几次厕所就没法准时下班了。
Even when I go out on a regular basis, I rarely go to the toilet during office hours because I can't get off work on time because there are so many patients and so few doctors.
所以憋尿的能力是长期锻炼出来的。
So the ability to hold urine is long-term.
更重要的是，我们的库存一直在不断减少，我们一天有6个人值班，至少要消耗6套防护服，12个N95口罩。
More importantly, we have been running out of inventory, with 6 people on duty a day, consuming at least 6 suits and 12 N95 masks.
我们医院不是定点医院，除了发热门诊以外，其他科室也在同步运行。
Our hospital is not a designated hospital, in addition to the fever clinic, other departments are also running in sync.
但其他科室都尽量把防护服和眼罩都留给一线工作人员。
However, other sections have tried to leave protective clothing and eye protection to first-line staff.
远征 摄他们没有办法分到防护服，只能穿白大褂上班。
They couldn't get protective clothing, they had to wear white coats to work.
没有护目镜，他们发挥创意自制防护面罩。
Without goggles, they play creative homemade protective masks.
放射科的男同事使用废旧的X光片，绑上两根绳子，垫上海绵就可以了。
The male colleagues in the radiology department used the old X-ray film, tied two ropes, put on the sponge.
而妇产科的女同事做得最漂亮，她们使用的材料是透明的塑料文件袋，这样的防护面罩可以代替护目镜阻挡飞沫。
Gynecology and obstetrics colleagues do the most beautiful, they use transparent plastic file bags, such a shield can replace goggles to block the droplets.
这几天我对自己的磅胱功能还是比较满意。
I've been pretty satisfied with my bladder function these days.
每个班我都只用了一套防护服，没有浪费任何物资。
I used only one suit for each class, and I didn't waste anything.
不止在抗疫时期随时待命是医生的工作常态但是不断袭来的饥饿和口渴却折磨着我，直到凌晨两点，我仍然非常清醒。
Not only was it normal for doctors to be on call at all times, but hunger and thirst continued to plague me until two in the morning.
晚上没有病人的时候，我们可以在值班室的床上躺一下，但我睡不着。
When there were no patients at night, we could lie in the bed in the duty room, but I couldn't sleep.
我已经连续两夜通宵值班了，倒不觉得累，只是上班上得有点麻木。
I've been on duty all night for two nights now. I'm not tired. I'm just a little numb at work.
如果没有这次疫情，我应该会和我的两个孩子一起站在高耸的澳门塔上俯瞰碧蓝的海湾，看码头上的灯火逐一被黑夜点亮。
Had it not been for the outbreak, I would have stood with my two children in the towering Macau Tower overlooking the blue bay, watching the lights on the dock lit up by night.
事实上，我在接到被抽调到发热门诊的通知之前，已经连续上了四十几天班。
In fact, I had been working for forty days before I was notified of my transfer to the fever clinic.
其实医务人员是没有节假日概念的。
In fact, medical staff do not have the concept of holidays.
正常的话，我们是按照轮班制上班。
Normally, we work on a shift.
因为我们科室最近人手不够，每周的双休日变成了单休日。
Due to the recent shortage of staff in our department, the weekly two-day break has become a single day off.
我为了攒出大年初一到初四的假期，就利用仅有的单休日帮同事代班。
In order to save the holidays from the first to the fourth day of the New Year, I use the only day off to help colleagues substitute.
一直到1月23日，武汉封城的警报拉响，广东省启动一级响应。
Until January 23, Wuhan closed the city of the alarm sounded, Guangdong Province launched a response.
我们医院也迅速做出了反应，在两天之内将发热门诊升级改造完毕，并从全院各科室抽调医务人员，组成过年期间的抗疫工作小组。
Our hospital also responded quickly by upgrading the fever clinic within two days and by drawing medical staff from all sections of the hospital to form an anti-epidemic team during the New Year.
我在这个医院工作了九年，现在是中医科的主治医师，研究生专业就读的是呼吸内科，所以成为了本科室最合适的人选。
I have worked in this hospital for nine years, and now I am the attending physician of TCM. My graduate major is in Respiratory Medicine, so I am the most suitable candidate for undergraduate course.
我当天就退掉了酒店和行程，老公非常支持我的工作，只说了一句，你好好工作，我来带孩子。
I retired the same day the hotel and itinerary, my husband very supportive of my work, just said, you work well, I will take care of the children.
突然取消休假对医生来说是司空见惯的事情，我们家人早就习惯了我的工作状态。
It's common for doctors to take a break. My family has long been used to my work.
医生的下班时间都必须保持随时待命的状态，每年广州发生登革热、甲流等疫情的时候，我们都会去其他门诊支援，就算是平时，如果我的病人突然身体出现问题，我也需要在半小时内抵达医院现场。
Doctors have to be on standby at all times of the week. Every year when there is dengue fever and swine flu in Guangzhou, we go to other clinics to support them.
对疫情的响应一启动，整个医院都像进入了战争状态。
As soon as the response to the outbreak began, the whole hospital was in a state of war.
护士长是一个四十多岁的女强人，她当时两天两夜都没回家，承受的压力最大，医院的每个部门都要跟她对接。
The head nurse was a powerful woman in her forties who had not been home for two days or nights and who was under the greatest pressure and had to be docked by every part of the hospital.
大年初一发热门诊正式启用，分出了三个相对独立的区域，墙上贴好了详细的流程，所有的物资配置到位。
New Year's Day fever clinic officially opened, separated out three relatively independent areas, wall affixed with detailed procedures, all material configuration in place.
我在中医科的岗位上一直工作到除夕，大年初一就到发热门诊报道。
I worked in TCM until New Year's Eve and reported to the fever clinic on the first day of New Year.
这些日子值班，特别饿的时候就会想起大年三十吃到的年夜饭，真是美味啊。
These days on duty, especially when hungry will remember the New Year's Eve dinner, really delicious ah.
当时我并不知道，第二天等待自己的会是隔离。
I didn't know it was segregation that awaited me the next day.
高星 摄他就站在楼下朝我挥手但是我怎么都看不清他的表情接到隔离通知就是在大年初一，我去发热门诊报道的当天。
Gao Xing He just stood downstairs and waved to me But I couldn't see his face It was on New Year's Day, the day I went to the fever clinic.
疫情的战场瞬息万变，我们每个人都没有心理准备。
The battlefield of the epidemic is rapidly changing, and we are not prepared for it.
大年初一是我和老公的十周年结婚纪念日，大年初二是我儿子的生日，本来计划好的庆祝仪式，现在都要取消了。
New Year's Day is my husband's tenth anniversary, New Year's Day is my son's birthday, originally planned to celebrate the ceremony, now will be canceled.
就连随身衣物都是家人收拾好送到宿舍楼下的。
Even the belongings were packed up by the family and sent to the dormitory under the building.
我们被隔离在医院宿舍里，步行5-10分钟就可以走到发热门诊。
We were quarantined in the hospital dormitory and walked for 5-10 minutes to the fever clinic.
随着疫情的不断升级，家里人的担心也与日俱增。
As the epidemic escalated, so did the family's fears.
但是我很懂得怎么对待家人的担心。
But I do know how to deal with my family's fears.
我经常给孩子发我穿防护服的照片，问他们，你们看妈妈像不像天线宝宝？我告诉我爸妈，我们在全医院防护最到位的工作间。
I often send my kids pictures of me wearing protective clothing and ask them, Do you think mom is like a baby? I tell my parents we have the best-protected workshop in the hospital.
迄今为止，全广东也没有医务人员被感染。
So far, no medical personnel have been infected throughout Guangdong.
我还会经常故意跟老公说：马云已经给我们买了保险啦，轻症感染可以拿两万赔偿，还有14天假期。
I will often deliberately say to my husband: Ma Yun has bought us insurance, a mild infection can get 20, 000 compensation, and 14 days of vacation.
轻症感染就像普通感冒一样好治，很划算啦。
A mild infection is just as treatable as a common cold. It's a good deal.
重症还能拿到10万。
One hundred thousand more in serious condition.
我老公笑我无聊，说不理我了。
My husband laughed at my boredom and said no to me.
其实他知道我在装疯卖傻。
Actually, he knows I'm acting crazy.
有一天我上班的时候，五岁的女儿哭着给我打电话，我一看视频里，她的手被门夹了，都变黑了。
One day when I was at work, my five-year-old daughter called me crying. I saw the video, her hands were sandwiched by the door.
我忍住泪，小声跟她说我在上班不能回家，就挂断了电话。
Resisting tears, I whispered to her that I couldn't get home from work, so I hung up.
还好有丈夫帮她处理好伤口，等到我能回复电话的时候，家人都已经入睡了。
Fortunately, her husband helped her with the wound, and by the time I could return the call, the family had fallen asleep.
被隔离以后，我每天都会挑状态最好的时候给家人打电话、发微信。
After being quarantined, I would call my family and send them a message every day at my best.
但我很少跟家人视频。
But I seldom video with my family.
因为我照镜子的时候，发现我的整个脸都肿了，长期被口罩勒着，本来就敏感的皮肤开始出红疹子，很多同事都跟我一样，靠吃抗过敏药上阵。
Because when I looked in the mirror, my whole face was swollen, I was strangled by a mask, my sensitive skin began to develop a rash, and many of my colleagues took allergy medicine.
我老公不是那种会甜言蜜语的人，他发现以后没有说什么，从家里开车过来给我送来了一堆护肤品。
My husband is not a sweet talker. When he found out that he didn't say anything, he drove over from home and brought me a pile of skincare products.
他送过来的时候我正在楼上，但是他只能送到楼下的保卫处，我不能下楼，只能在四楼的窗台上看着他，他在下面朝我挥手，但我看不清楚他的表情。
I was upstairs when he arrived, but he had to be sent downstairs to his security, I couldn't go downstairs, I could only look at him from the window sill on the fourth floor, and he waved to me from below, but I could not make out his face.
过了一会儿他开车走了，我还在窗前看了很久。
After a while he drove away and I looked at the window for a long time.
那一瞬间，我真的挺想家的。
At that moment, I was really homesick.
抗疫期间泡面是医生最好的朋友那天我听到隔离区非常喧闹。
Bubble face is the doctor's best friend The other day I heard a lot of noise in the quarantine.
有病人在大厅辱骂，你们没有医德！他们是一家五口，有武汉的旅行史，在进入佛山时被警察发现小孩子体温异常，因此被送到我们医院等待排查。
There are patients in the hall abuse, you do not have medical ethics! They are a family of five, Wuhan travel history, when the police found the children in Foshan abnormal temperature, so was sent to our hospital waiting to be screened.
但大人坚持认为孩子没有生病，不肯配合筛查。
But adults insist that children are not sick and do not cooperate with screening.
恰好那天隔离区患者特别多，他们等了一个小时，有点不耐烦了。
It happened that day that there were so many patients in the colony that they waited for an hour, a little impatient.
我当时在清洁区值班，病人还不算多，一联想起最近的伤医事件我就非常紧张，不停跟领导汇报现场状况。
I was on duty in the cleaning area, patients were not too many, and when I think of the recent casualty incident, I am very nervous and keep reporting the situation to the leadership.
不一会儿领导通知了保安、警察，经过沟通以后按照他们的意愿，将他们送到上级医院进行治疗。
In a few moments, the leaders informed the security and police and, after communicating with them, they were taken to higher hospitals for treatment if they so wished.
这件事情解决了，可我们还是会很紧张。
It's settled, but we're gonna be nervous.
虽然大部分病人都能理解医生的辛苦，但是哪怕是万分之一的风险对于医生来说都是不可承受的。
While most patients understand the doctor's pain, even one in 10,000 risks is too much for a doctor to bear.
所幸，至今我们医院还没有发现任何的阳性病例。
Fortunately, so far no positive cases have been found in our hospital.
国家出台政策，给予我们一线工作人员每天200元-300元的补助。
The state has introduced a policy of providing a subsidy of 200 yuan to 300 yuan per day to our frontline staff.
我们不是为了这个钱来加班，但这笔钱让我们觉得很受用，政府为医护人员真的做了很多。
We don't work overtime for this money, but it makes us feel good. The government really does a lot for health care workers.
天空渐渐亮起来，已经到了早上8点了，我可以下班了。
The sky is getting brighter. It's 8 o'clock in the morning. I can get off work.
接下来我将迎来五十多天来的第一个休息日。
Then I will have my first day off in more than fifty days.
在我被隔离的第一天，老公给我拿了一箱泡面到宿舍。
On my first day of isolation, my husband brought me a box of noodles to the dorm.
我没想到，这箱泡面是我隔离期间最大的安慰。
I didn't think this box of noodles was the greatest comfort I had during my isolation.
网上有一张特别火的照片，武汉医生的年夜饭是泡面和蛋黄派，大众很心疼我们医生。
There is a special picture of fire online, Wuhan doctor's New Year's dinner is bubble noodles and egg yolk pie, the public love our doctor very much.
其实就算送热食给我们，在上班时间我们也没办法吃。
In fact, even sending hot food to us, we can not eat in the office hours.
一是为了节省时间，避免上厕所。
One is to save time and avoid going to the toilet.
二是避免吃饭造成污染，浪费本来就紧缺的物资。
The second is to avoid food pollution, waste already scarce materials.
我们在三班倒的状态下，经常赶不上食堂的饭点，我们医院地点比较偏僻，过年期间本来就不好叫外卖，如果没有泡面，我们可能一整天都吃不到热食。
We often miss the canteen when we are on three shifts. Our hospital is out of the way and we might not be able to eat hot food all day without noodles.
只有泡面可以随时想吃就吃，还不怕坏。
Only noodles can be eaten whenever you want, not afraid of bad.
因此抗疫期间泡面成了我们最好的朋友。
So bubble noodles became our best friend during the fight against the epidemic.
下班回到宿舍，吃泡面就像一个仪式。
Coming back from work to the dorm, eating noodles is like a ritual.
我先把手进行消毒，再洗个热水澡，用含氯的消毒液浸泡我所有的衣服。
I disinfect my hands, take a hot bath and soak all my clothes in chlorine disinfectant.
然后我再煮上一个泡面，哧溜一声，热腾腾的汤进入胃里，真的特别幸福。
Then I boil a bubble noodles, swish, hot soup into the stomach, really very happy.
请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please stamp [5prE5teiFEn] New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一线医生口述：疫情期间，泡面是最好的朋友。
First-line doctors oral: During the epidemic, bubble noodles is the best friend.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "一线医生口述：疫情期间，泡面是最好的朋友";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; during the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "在这场不平凡的战役中，她的故事也是千万人的故事。
var msg _ desc = & quot; her story is the story of millions of people in this remarkable battle.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
