疫情阴影下的网约车：部分司机收入锐减80%。
Online cars in the shadow of the epidemic: Some drivers saw their incomes plummet by 80%.
柯晓斌。
Koh Xiaobin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：柯晓斌  编辑：文姝琪“ 当下，人们出行需求紧缩，网约车的订单量也在急剧下降。
Photo Source: China Visual Correspondent: Gao Xiaobin, editor: "Nowadays, people's travel demand is shrinking, and the volume of orders for online cars is falling sharply.
这意味着，这段时间，司机们将没有收入或只有极低的收入。
This means that during this time, drivers will have no or very low incomes.
”在疫情的阴影下，网约车行业正经历着一场可能从未有过的困难。
In the shadow of the epidemic, the online-car industry is experiencing a difficulty it may never have had.
1月23日，武汉封城，新型冠状病毒在全国蔓延后，几乎所有的交通枢纽都停摆，随后，诸多城市开始封锁城市内的道路，不允许市民出门。
On January 23, Wuhan, the new coronavirus spread throughout the country, almost all the transport hubs were stopped, then many cities began to block the city's roads, not allow citizens to go out.
当下，人们出行需求紧缩，网约车的订单量也在急剧下降。
Demand for cars is shrinking, and orders for online vehicles are falling sharply.
这意味着，这段时间，司机们将没有收入或只有极低的收入。
This means that during this time, drivers will have no or very low incomes.
这只是困难的一部分。
This is only part of the difficulty.
“华南某省尽管没有封城，但是受疫情影响，现在已经陆陆续续有司机要求退租。
"Although a province in South China has not been closed, but affected by the epidemic, there has been a trickle of drivers to request rent refund.
”一位拥有数千辆汽车的租赁公司老板接受界面新闻记者采访时表示，年后退租司机占比达到30％。
In an interview with Interface News, the owner of a rental company, which owns thousands of cars, said the proportion of renters who rent cars each year reached 30 per cent.
“司机一旦退租，车子就会空置，每辆车的成本大概是在4800元/月左右，这笔钱就需要租赁公司自己掏，这对于租赁公司而言是无法承担的。
"Once the car is refunded, it will be empty at a cost of about 4,800 yuan per car, which the leasing company will have to pay at its own expense, which the leasing company cannot afford.
”在他看来，对于租赁公司而言，已经到了生死存亡的关键点。
In his view, a crucial point had been reached for leasing companies, where survival was at stake.
同时，在当下，为了保证一线医护人员的正常出行，包括曹操出行、高德、滴滴等在内的大出行公司都召集了司机志愿者给他们提供出行服务。
At the same time, in order to ensure the normal travel of front-line medical staff, including Cao Cao travel, Gao De, drip, and other large travel companies have gathered drivers volunteers to provide them with travel services.
“只有共同去抗疫，才能尽快的恢复正常运转，然后再想办法突围。
"Only by fighting the disease together can we get back to normal operation as soon as possible and then find a way to break through.
”一位不愿具名的大出行公司联合创始人表示。
"said co-founder of a major travel company that declined to be named.
但真实情况也许并没有如此乐观。
But the truth may not be so rosy.
收入减少五分之四两天前2月8号，张丽英开始在家休息。
Income is down by four fifths Two days ago, on February 8th, Zhang Liying began to rest at home.
随着新型冠状病毒的蔓延，三天前，杭州也几乎进入封城状态，市民出入小区都需要办证明，量体温。
With the spread of the new coronavirus, three days ago, Hangzhou also almost into the status of a closed city, residents to enter and exit the district need to do a certificate, take temperature.
大部分的城市道路都被封锁。
Most of the city's roads are blocked.
截止2月10号上午11点，浙江省确诊病例为1092位，仅次于湖北和广东，其中新增29例。
By 11 a.m. on February 10, 1,092 cases had been confirmed in Zhejiang Province, just behind Hubei and Guangdong, with 29 new cases.
这对于张丽英而言并不是一个好消息。
This is not good news for Zhang Liying.
每天早上醒来，她做的第一件事是打开手机查看全国范围内的新增感染人数、死亡人数，疑似病例人数。
The first thing she does when she wakes up in the morning is to turn on her mobile phone and check the number of new infections, deaths and suspected cases nationwide.
“希望疫情能早点过去，这样经济上压力也会少一些。
"Hopefully, the epidemic will get over earlier, so there will be less economic pressure.
”她是山西人，今年40岁，有两个女儿，其中大女儿今年马上要高考。
She is from Shanxi, 40, and has two daughters, the eldest of whom will be taking the entrance exam this year.
两年前，张丽英离婚后，一个人来到杭州，成为曹操出行的一名网约车全职司机。
Two years ago, Zhang Liying divorced, a person came to Hangzhou, Cao Cao travel as a full-time driver.
“每月房租2000元，其他开销2000元、吃饭1500元、两个孩子生活费1500元左右。
"Rent 2,000 yuan a month, spend 2,000 yuan on other expenses, 1,500 yuan on meals and 1,500 yuan on two children.
”她算了一笔账。
She made an account.
此前，她作为曹操出行的司机队长，每月到手收入大概在一万一千元左右。
Before that, she as Cao Cao travel's chauffeur captain, received a monthly income of about eleven thousand yuan.
“如果节省一点，每月可以存下五千元。
If you save a little, you can save five thousand a month
”这是她在杭州过的第二个年。
It was her second year in Hangzhou.
“从杭州到太原，高铁需8个半小时，票价561元，年前飞机基本都在一千五百元左右，过了春节节假日后，从杭州到太原的特价飞机票价有的只需要300元。
"From Hangzhou to Taiyuan, the high-speed railway takes eight and a half hours, it costs 561 yuan, and the airplanes were nearly 1,500 yuan a year ago. After the Spring Festival holiday, some special airfares from Hangzhou to Taiyuan cost as little as 300 yuan
”为了省回家的路费，和去年一样，她计划春节假期过后再回家看望孩子。
To save money for her trip home, she plans to visit her children after the Spring Festival holiday, as she did last year.
同时，春节期间，因为司机大都回家过年，也不会堵车，公司还有奖励和补贴。
At the same time, during the Spring Festival, because most drivers go home to celebrate the New Year, there will be no traffic jam, the company incentives and subsidies.
算下来，去年从大年初一到初七，一个礼拜每天在岗10多个小时，平均每天二十多单，她赚了大概5000元。
Come to think of it, last year from the New Year's Day to the seventh, a week on duty more than 10 hours, an average of more than 20 bills a day, she earned about 5000 yuan.
“我要多存一点钱，孩子念大学需要钱，虽然是由其父亲抚养，但作为母亲，还是想尽可能地去供她读大学。
"I want to save a little more money. My child needs money to go to college, and although she is raised by her father, as a mother, she wants to go to college as much as possible.
”而今年受疫情影响，这七天她整体收入只有去年的五分之一。
Her overall income for the seven days of the epidemic this year is only one-fifth that of last year.
“在杭州开始封锁城市交通道路之前，武汉封城后，杭州打车用户就明显减少，一个小时都拉不到一单。
"Before Hangzhou began to block city traffic roads, Wuhan closed the city, Hangzhou taxi users significantly reduced, an hour can not pull a single.
三天前，杭州禁止外出后，直接就没订单了。
Three days ago, after Hangzhou banned going out, there were no direct orders.
”她说，庆幸的是，她是曹操出行的全职司机，不管怎样，公司依然会给她提供底薪和五险。
Fortunately for Cao Cao, she said, she was a full-time driver and despite everything, the company still offered her a base salary and five benefits.
没办法上岗的日子，她只能呆在自己的出租屋里。
When she couldn't get on the job, she had to stay in her rental room.
“这个时候回家要隔离14天，一来一回28天，一个月就没有了，不划算，还是想着疫情能尽快得到控制，然后上岗赚钱。
"It's 14 days of isolation, 28 days at a time. It's not worth it," he said.
”她说。
'she said.
今年5月，她打算回家一趟，陪她女儿参加高考。
In May, she plans to go home to accompany her daughter to the college entrance examination.
让她焦虑的是，她可能存不到预期中想要给女儿读书的钱了。
To her anxiety, she may not be able to save the money she was expecting for her daughter.
租赁公司几乎崩盘最近一个礼拜，刘明（化名）都焦虑到失眠。
Leasing companies nearly collapsed Liu Ming (not his real name) has been worried about insomnia for the past week.
2014年，在网约车平台开始兴起时，他帮滴滴在华南地区招募并管理司机。
In 2014, he helped recruit and manage drivers in southern China as the internet platform began to emerge.
如今，他的公司已成为滴滴比较大的合作商，目前有接近1000辆汽车。
Today, his company has become a bigger partner, with close to 1,000 cars.
去年八月份开始，滴滴取消了融资租赁（以租代购）模式，在全国范围内推行经营性租赁。
Beginning in August last year, drip-drop eliminated the finance lease (hire-for-purchase) model and introduced operating leases nationwide.
和融资租赁不同，经营性租赁的车辆最后归属权归于司机所挂靠的租赁公司所有，这意味着，和滴滴合作的租赁公司必须自己购买车辆，属于重资产运营的模式。
Unlike a finance lease, the ultimate ownership of an operating lease vehicle rests with the leasing company to which the driver is attached, meaning that the leasing company and the drip-by-drop partner must purchase their own vehicles, which is part of the heavy asset operating model.
同时，司机退租的政策也相对灵活，一旦提前退租，只需要缴纳押金的10%－20%作为违约金就可以，基本只需付出两三千元。
At the same time, the policy of renting back drivers is relatively flexible. Once the rent is refunded early, only 10% to 20% of the deposit will be required as a penalty.
作为滴滴的第三方供应商，租赁公司必须要自己拥有车辆。
As third-party suppliers, leasing companies must own their own vehicles.
但中小企业缺乏足够的现金流去购买车辆，它必须通过第三方机构授信从中借贷，把车辆作为金融产品打包卖給司机，从租金差中获利。
But SMEs lack sufficient cash flow to buy vehicles and must borrow from them through third-party agencies, packaging them as financial products for sale to drivers and profiting from the rent differentials.
这意味着，一旦司机退租，车辆将成为公司的空置资产，无法产生效益。
This means that once the driver rerents, the vehicle will become an empty asset of the company and will not be productive.
同时，作为中间层的租赁公司还需按月给授信机构缴纳所有车辆的贷款。
At the same time, the leasing company, as an intermediary, is required to pay a monthly loan to the lending institution for all vehicles.
在刘明公司现有的1000辆汽车中，融资租赁和经营性租赁各占一半。
Of the 1000 cars available to Liu Ming Company, finance lease and operating lease are each equally divided.
其中，融资租赁的月供直接由司机自己承担。
Of these, the monthly financing lease payments are borne directly by the drivers themselves.
“疫情爆发以后， 目前已经有接近30%的司机要求退租。
"Nearly 30 percent of drivers have now asked to be let back after the outbreak.
”让刘明焦虑的是，这1000台汽车，加上利息、保养等费用，每辆车每月需要4800元左右，这也意味着每个月硬支出近500万。
To his annoyance, the 1,000 cars, plus interest and maintenance costs, cost about 4,800 yuan per month per car, which also means spending nearly five million yuan a month on hard expenses.
保守估计，30% 的退租率中有一半属于经营性租赁，这意味着有150辆车子在招募到新的司机上岗前实际上就是负资产，不可能带来收益，这部分每个月付给银行和其他的费用支出总计72万。
Conservative estimates suggest that half of the 30 per cent rent-back rate is for operating leases, meaning that 150 vehicles are effectively negative assets before new drivers are recruited and are unlikely to generate revenue, which amounts to $0.72 million per month in bank and other expenses.
“现在情况还不明朗，也不知道什么时候能恢复正常，也许退租率还会更高。
"It is not clear when things will return to normal and perhaps the rent-back rate will be higher.
”他表示，公司员工的工资、办公地的租金、水电这几项加在一起，每月也得支出50万左右。
He says the company's employees' salaries, office rents and utilities add up to about half a million dollars a month.
“这次黑天鹅事件，几乎让租赁公司体系面临崩盘。
"The Black Swan affair almost brought the leasing system to a crashing point.
”他说，更为关键的是，租赁公司几乎没有通过减少开支等方式去度过危机的可能，一旦全国范围内租赁公司体系出现崩盘，很多司机将面临下岗。
More critically, leasing companies have done little to avert a crisis, such as spending cuts, and many drivers will face layoffs if the nation-wide leasing system collapses.
“如果银行及金融公司能延长租赁公司还款半年，同时，政府对这个行业进行补贴，租赁公司才有可能活下去。
"If banks and financial companies can extend the repayment period for six months and the government subsidizes the industry, leasing companies can survive.
”同时，刘明还寄希望于在特殊时期，平台能在计价方面的政策作出调整。
Mr Liu also hopes that, in exceptional times, the platform will be able to adjust its pricing policies.
刘明的焦虑是这个行业当下的缩影。
Liu Ming's anxiety is a microcosm of the industry today.
另外一位不愿具名的全国性出行平台联合创始人则表现出更为长远的担忧，他表示，就算疫情得到控制，但很长一段时间内用户对于出行的安全性会产生担忧，很多出行场景需求将会降低，比如去KTV和饭店等等。
Another co-founder of the national travel platform, who declined to be named, expressed longer-term concerns, saying that even if the outbreak were contained, users would have concerns about the safety of travel for a long time and many travel scenarios, such as going to KTV and restaurants, would be less in demand.
不过，在他看来，也许这也是一个机会。
In his view, however, it might also be an opportunity.
如何去满足特定出行场景的需求，是接下来值得去思考的问题。
How to meet the needs of a particular travel scenario is worth thinking about next.
先抗疫，再突围“用户需求会降低、供应链的艰难会直接影响供给侧。
Fight first, break through again "user demand will be reduced, supply chain hardship will directly affect the supply side.
”多位出行公司的CEO均和界面新闻记者表达了看法。
CEOs of many travel companies and interface journalists have expressed their views.
的确如此，以滴滴为例，其供应链的生存状态将会给它带来直接影响。
Indeed, the survival of its supply chain, for example, will have a direct impact on droplets.
滴滴官方宣布的数据显示，目前，全国范围内，滴滴的租赁公司达到3000多家，每天的日订单量达到3000万单左右。
Official statistics show that there are now more than 3,000 leasing companies in the country, placing about 30 million orders a day.
值得一提的是，作为全国最大的信息撮合出行平台，滴滴并不直接控制车辆，更多的是依靠租赁公司或其和车企共同成立的合资公司。
It should be noted that, as the largest information matchmaking platform in the country, drops do not directly control vehicles, relying more on leasing companies or joint ventures with them.
一周以前，滴滴旗下的小桔车宣布，和湖北省内94家租赁公司伙伴、26家金融保险等机构沟通协商，共同发起倡议行动：在武汉、黄冈等湖北16个城市里，从小桔车服合作租赁公司租车的司机无须缴纳2020年2月份的租金，车辆租期顺延一个月。
A week ago, drip-drip's Orange Cart announced a one-month extension of the vehicle lease term for drivers in 16 cities in Hubei province, including Wuhan, Huanggang and Huanggang, without paying the February 2020 rent.
但目前这个倡议行动只覆盖到了湖北地区，刘明旗下的司机享受不到这个政策。
But so far the initiative has covered only Hubei, a policy not enjoyed by Liu Ming's drivers.
针对全国范围内其他受疫情影响的城市，小桔车服表示正加紧和20家金融机构、37家保险机构以及近3000家租赁公司等产业上下游合作伙伴紧密沟通，同时也在积极和各地主管部门寻求帮助和指导。
In other affected cities across the country, Orange said it was working closely with upstream and downstream partners from 20 financial institutions, 37 insurance companies and nearly 3,000 leasing companies, as well as actively seeking help and guidance from local authorities.
小桔车服方面表示，“我们正联合行业伙伴协调制定更全面的解决方案，希望最大程度帮司机缓解车租压力，请大家给我们一点时间。
"We are co-ordinating a more comprehensive solution with our industry partners in an effort to help minimise the pressure on car rental," Orange said.
”无论如何，“活下去”是刘明们目前最大的需求，但也只有等疫情过去，才能想办法进行自救。
In any case, "living" is Liu Mingmen's biggest need at the moment, but only when the epidemic is over can he find a way to save himself.
“现在公司都在抗疫，只有等疫情过去了，才能去着手准备突围的事情。
"The company is fighting the epidemic now, and only when the epidemic is over can we start preparing for the breakout.
”多家出行公司创始人也都这么认为。
Many of the founders of travel companies agree.
的确，时间意味着资金成本，只有共同抗疫、缩短受疫情影响的时间，尽快恢复运营，才有更多可能。
Indeed, time means the cost of money, and that is more likely only if there is a common response to the epidemic, a reduction in the duration of the epidemic and an early resumption of operations.
另一方面，他们也寄希望于国家出台更多有利于企业的业务恢复政策。
On the other hand, they are counting on the state to put in place more business recovery policies that benefit businesses.
截止目前，已经有滴滴、曹操出行、高德等多家出行平台都召集了司机志愿者在武汉等多个城市给一线医护、社区提供出行服务。
Up to now, drip drop, Cao Cao travel, Gao De many other travel platforms have gathered drivers volunteers in Wuhan and other cities to provide first-line medical care, community travel services.
其中，曹操出行设立了2亿元人民币新型冠状病毒防控专项基金，并出资100万元給社区居民免费提供出行服务。
Cao Cao set up a special fund of 200 million yuan for the prevention and control of the new coronavirus and donated 1 million yuan to provide free travel services to community residents.
滴滴此前也设立2亿元的保障车队专项资金，用于这些车队司机津贴、保障和采购防疫物资等。
Ditto also set up a $200 million convoy protection fund to subsidize, safeguard and procure epidemic prevention materials for the convoy drivers.
目前已在全国一百多个城市设立司机防疫服务站，免费为司机发放口罩、消毒液等防护物资。
At present, drivers' epidemic prevention service stations have been set up in more than 100 cities around the country.
出行公司正在不断通过一些措施来给司乘两端恢复信心。
The company is taking a number of measures to restore confidence on both sides of the company.
无论如何，人们的出行需求始终存在，在生活恢复正常节奏之后，打车依然是城市人口的刚需。
In any case, people's travel needs are always there, and after life returns to normal rhythm, taxis are still needed by the urban population.
但值得注意的是，经过这一战之后，出行行业的大量供应商将异常艰难。
But it is worth noting that, after this battle, a large number of suppliers in the travel industry will be extremely difficult.
这也就意味着，在运力端将面临着重新洗牌的可能，而新补充进来的运力端（供应链）和平台端，也需要重新磨合。
This means that the capacity side will face the possibility of a reshuffle, while the newly added capacity (supply chain) and platform end will also need to be re-aligned.
不过，就像他们说的，眼下只有齐心，才可能尽快地攻克疫情，然后恢复生产。
But, as they say, only by working together now will it be possible to overcome the epidemic as soon as possible and then resume production.
作为这个生态中的一名个体，这也是张丽英目前最大的期待。
As an individual in this ecology, this is also Zhang Liying's biggest expectation at present.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情阴影下的网约车：部分司机收入锐减80%。
Online cars in the shadow of the epidemic: Some drivers saw their incomes plummet by 80%.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情阴影下的网约车：部分司机收入锐减80%";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; in the shadow of the epidemic: Some drivers saw their earnings plummet at 80%;;;
var msg_desc = "当下，人们出行需求紧缩，网约车的订单量也在急剧下降。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
这意味着，这段时间，司机们将没有收入或只有极低的收入。
This means that during this time, drivers will have no or very low incomes.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
