疫情中的心理援助：寻找局部的安全。
Psychological assistance in an epidemic: looking for local security.
刘敏、徐沉沉。
Liu Min, Xu Leng.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
西英俊医生参与过汶川地震和天津港爆炸事故的心理救援。
West handsome doctor participated in Wenchuan earthquake and Tianjin Harbor explosion accident psychological rescue.
此次新冠肺炎他尚未介入，他说这是“我目前没有去给他们添乱，处于待命状态”。
He has yet to step in with the new crown pneumonia, which he says is "I'm not going to mess with them at the moment, on standby."
危机来自多方面，“心理危机干预永远是放在最后”，他多次表达，解决实际问题更加紧要。
The crisis comes from many sources, "psychological crisis intervention is always at the end," he said repeatedly, addressing practical problems is more urgent.
与此同时，处在封锁中的人们能做什么？面对护士崩溃大哭的视频、家属痛失亲人的自述，和不断上升的感染人数，人们的负面情绪如何纾解？隋双戈博士为我们提供了一些方法。
At the same time, what can people do with blockades? Dr. Sui and Dr. Sui Shuangge offer some ways to alleviate the negative emotions in the face of videos of nurses crying, family bereaved of their loved ones, and the rising number of infections.
他是中国心理学会注册督导师，肺炎疫情的心理援助中，他为多家心理机构的咨询师、志愿者提供培训和督导。
He is a registered supervisor of the Chinese Psychological Association, and he provides training and supervision for counsellors and volunteers from various psychological organizations in psychological assistance for pneumonia cases.
他认为，“我们控制不了大环境，可以寻找自己能控制的一小部分，寻找局部的安全。
"We can't control the general environment, we can find a small part of their control, looking for local security.
”GQ报道与他们聊了聊此次肺炎疫情的心理援助与危机干预。
GQ reported talking to them about psychological aid and crisis intervention about the pneumonia epidemic.
···············GQ报道：一周前，有一条护士情绪崩溃的视频在微信上传播很广。
One week ago, a video of a nurse dissolving into a frenzy was posted on a microphone.
在一个办公室里，有名女护士嚎啕大哭，情绪崩溃，有一名女同事去拍背安抚她，其他人继续沉默地吃饭。
In one office, a female nurse burst into tears, a female colleague went to pat her back to appease her, and the others continued to eat in silence.
这个视频给了很多人巨大的冲击，大家非常担心一线医护人员的心理状况。
This video has given a lot of people a huge impact, people are very worried about the psychological state of front-line medical personnel.
像视频里这位护士的的崩溃，同事们应该怎么应对？隋双戈：我觉得视频里的状态就是合适的：有人安抚，有人继续做自己的事情。
Like the collapse of the nurse in the video, what should colleagues do with it? Sui Shuangge: I think the state in the video is just right: someone comforts, someone goes on doing their own thing.
第一，这样能保持医护人员自己的稳定，保证高压状态下继续正常地吃饭、休息、工作；第二，她们也是一种情绪隔离——不管发生了什么，我当做没发生，稳定好自己；第三，这对崩溃的同事也有好处。
First, it keeps the staff stable and ensures that they can eat, rest and work normally under high pressure. Second, they are emotionally isolated - no matter what happens, I act as if I didn't, stabilizing myself, and thirdly, it is good for a crumbling colleague.
人是社会动物，需要表达，需要被看见、被知道，然后被关心。
Human beings are social animals that need to be expressed, seen, understood, and then cared for.
但不能做过头，如果大家此时都涌上去安慰她，会强化她的行为，对她也没好处。
But don't overdo it. If everyone comes to comfort her at this time, it will reinforce her behavior and do her no good.
所以她们的处置还是比较得当的， 有人适度地关心、关切，其他人保持稳定，也能保护好自己。
So their treatment is still more appropriate, some moderately concerned, concerned, others stable, but also able to protect themselves.
GQ报道：情绪崩溃的护士如果得不到心理安抚会有什么后果？西英俊：没有得到外在支持，危机就不只是这件事情引发的了。
What happens to a stressed-out nurse if she is not reassured? West Handsome: Without outside support, the crisis isn't just about it.
“没人帮我”这个危机更大。
"Nobody helps me" is a bigger crisis.
危机干预最重要体现在社会支持程度大不大。
The most important aspect of crisis intervention is the low level of social support.
2015年湖北监利的“东方之星”旅游客船倾覆事件，在社会支持上就做得非常好，当地全社会动员，几乎所有人把自己家的房间腾出来给处理善后工作的人、遇难者家属去住，出租车司机免费接送。
In 2015, Hubei prison "Orient Star" tourist boat capsize, the social support is very good, local social mobilization, almost all of their homes to deal with the aftercare workers, the families of the victims to live, taxi drivers free of charge.
社会支持对危机当事人是非常大的抚慰，他们（当事人）会感到内心得到很大的安慰和支持，危机就会减轻。
Social support is a great comfort to the crisis victims, who will feel a great deal of comfort and support and the crisis will be alleviated.
视频中的护士未来的走向，之后是由社会支持程度够不够决定的。
The future of the nurse in the video is then determined by the level of social support.
要给予希望，不单是说你给她什么东西，而是让她看到现在这个社会各个层面都在源源不断地支持他们。
Give hope, not just what you give her, but let her see that there is a constant flow of support for them from all walks of life.
从物资、人员，到疫情的控制程度，都在传递积极的东西，而这个积极不是虚构出来的。
From the material, people, to the degree of control of the epidemic, are delivering positive things, and the positive is not imaginary.
要让她看到自己的困难正在得到解决。
Let her see that her troubles are being solved.
GQ报道：在过去的突发性大型公共事件中，您是怎么做危机干预的？西英俊：比如2015年的“8.12天津港爆炸事故”，事故中，天津市泰达医院离爆炸现场很近，医院自己的一些玻璃都被震碎了，死伤人员源源不断送到医院里，所有的医生、护士此时都处在一个应激状态。
How did you intervene in a major public emergency in the past? West Handsome: For example, the 8.12-day Tianjin Port Explosion in 2015, in which Tianjin-based Teda Hospital was very close to the site of the blast, shattering some of its own glass, sending dead and wounded to hospitals and leaving all doctors and nurses in a state of stress.
但出于一种完全自我隔离的反应，他们必须去做规范的医疗护理、抢救。
But in a reaction of complete self-isolation, they have to do standard medical care, rescue.
但是几天后，就出现了问题。
But a few days later, something went wrong.
很多人脑海里总是反复出现血肉模糊的死伤人员景象，心理学上这叫闪回，他们出现了躯体反应，睡眠问题、情绪波动、安全感下降、工作精力下降等问题。
Many people's minds are filled with blood-blurred images of the dead and wounded. Psychologically this is called flashbacks. They experience somatic reactions, sleep problems, mood swings, reduced security, and reduced energy.
我们做心理干预，先做评估，把有同质性问题的人员组织在一起。
We make psychological interventions, do assessments, and bring together people who have homogenous problems.
我们做健康教育——跟他们讲解，这是一种经历危机之后的正常反应，打消他们对自身症状的担心。
We do health education - explaining to them that this is a normal reaction to a crisis and allaying their fears about their symptoms.
然后，再教他们一些简单易行的小方法。
Then teach them simple, easy-to-use tips.
比如肌肉放松、想象放松的训练，还有一些音乐疗法等。
Examples are muscle relaxation, relaxation training, and music therapy.
这些都有助于在危机初期改善他们的情绪状态。
These helped to improve their emotional state in the early stages of the crisis.
此外我们还可以做药物干预，帮助他们改善睡眠。
In addition, we can do medication to help them improve their sleep.
GQ报道：“8.12天津港爆炸事故”是突发事件，这一次长期持续的疫情，并且会有传染危险，二者的危机干预有什么区别？心理专家要去疫情一线做危机干预吗？西英俊：“8.12天津港爆炸事故”第一时间我们就去了。
What is the difference between the crisis intervention of the 8.12-day Tianjin Port Explosion and the long-term continuous outbreak and the risk of infection? Psychologists are going to the frontline of the epidemic for crisis intervention.
爆炸是给遇难者家属、参与救治的医护人员、解放军部队等，带来了一次非常直接的、冲击性的心理创伤。
The explosion was given to the families of the victims, the medical staff involved in the treatment, the PLA troops and so on, bringing a very direct, shock psychological trauma.
强烈的冲击会引发他们急性的应激反应，需要快速给他一些危机干预，包括药物的干预和治疗等。
A strong shock can trigger an acute stress response, requiring rapid crisis intervention, including drug intervention and treatment.
“8.12天津港爆炸事故”虽然是化学品爆炸，有一定危害性，但检测环境没有问题后，我们马上就可以进驻，危机干预人员自身没有风险。
"8.12 Tianjin Port explosion accident" although the chemical explosion, there is some harm, but the detection environment is not a problem, we can immediately enter, crisis intervention personnel themselves do not risk.
但是新冠肺炎这次事件属于一种疫情，不是冲击性、爆发性的，大家是从第一开始的忽略、没意识，到后来慢慢地感觉到有危险。
But the new crown pneumonia incident is an outbreak, not an impact, explosive, from the first neglect, unconscious, to the later slowly feel dangerous.
很多恐慌来自想象层面的，来自谣言的夸大等等。
A lot of panic comes from the imaginary level, from the exaggeration of rumors, etc.
这是不需要我们面对面去做干预，而是做健康教育。
This is not a face-to-face intervention, but health education.
比如官方发布及时的回答，专家澄清疫情的一些事实，来稳定大家的状态。
For example, the official issued a timely response, experts to clarify some facts about the epidemic, to stabilize the state of everyone.
心理学、精神医学专业人员，现在到疫区，开展不了太多的工作。
Psychology, mental health professionals, now into epidemic areas, can not carry out too much work.
而且这种消耗性的疾病，感染者也没有多余的精力接受心理干预。
And this expendable disease, infected people do not have the extra energy to receive psychological intervention.
危机干预在这是不是最主要的，先以防控为主。
Crisis intervention in this is not the most important, first to control the main.
GQ报道：危机干预的工作应该由谁来做？西英俊：一个危机干预组织是分层次的。
Who should do the job of crisis intervention? West Handsome: A crisis intervention organization is hierarchical.
不同专业背景的人员都可以参与到危机干预工作里面，精神科医生、心理学专家、心理学专业人员、精神科护士、志愿者，不同的人所承担的责任是不一样的。
People from different professional backgrounds can participate in crisis intervention, and psychiatrists, psychologists, psychologists, psychiatric nurses, volunteers all have different responsibilities.
危机它不只限定在心理层面。
The crisis is not confined to the psychological level.
比如说志愿者可能解决一些实际的问题，护理人员负责护理受创人员躯体的损害。
For example, volunteers may solve practical problems, and nursing staff are responsible for taking care of physical damage to the injured person.
一个病人躺着难受翻不过身，实际也是危机，护理人员帮他解决这个问题，也是危机干预。
The fact that a patient is lying on his back, unable to turn over, is also a crisis, nursing staff to help him solve this problem, is also crisis intervention.
再说心理学专业领域。
And then there's psychology.
比如一个人总是悲观、受制于谣言，我们心理学专业人员就可以从认知矫正的层面上帮助他。
For example, if a person is always pessimistic and subject to rumors, we psychologists can help him from the perspective of cognitive correction.
又比如一个人睡不好觉、持续两周情绪低落，也许他有抑郁症病史，这一次突发事件加重了他的病况。
He may have had a history of depression. This incident aggravated his condition.
这就是精神科医生的工作。
That's what psychiatrists do.
所以说危机干预的范畴是很大的。
So the scope of crisis intervention is very large.
心理学专业人员不要觉得自己不可替代，觉得自己是绝对的权威、专业，危机干预就是我来做。
Psychological professionals do not feel irreplaceable, feel that they are absolute authority, professional, crisis intervention is I do.
那是一种特别自恋的说法。
That's a particularly narcissistic term.
GQ报道：眼下对公众开展心理援助的心理咨询师，应该具备哪些条件？西英俊：这基于他有没有接受足够的心理学培训和督导，拿到资格认证。
What are the requirements for a counselor who currently provides psychological support to the public? West Handsome: It's based on whether he has enough psychological training and supervision to qualify.
目前来讲，国内最可信的能够去胜任这次危机干预的组织，是中国心理学会注册系统下面的心理学专业人员，这是一个比较严格的评价体系。
At present, the most credible organization in China that can handle this crisis intervention is the psychology professional under the registration system of the Chinese Psychological Association, which is a relatively strict evaluation system.
GQ报道：跟突发自然灾害不同，公共卫生危机是一个持续的过程。
Unlike sudden natural disasters, a public health crisis is an ongoing process, GQ reports.
比如感染的风险、物资的缺乏、人手不足，这些问题一直存在。
These problems persist, such as the risk of infection, lack of supplies and inadequate staffing.
客观问题解决不了，心理援助能起到什么作用？隋双戈：我们做的广义上叫“社会心理援助”——援助是多方面的，联结社会资源，应对当前危机。
What can psychological aid do if the objective problem is not solveSui and Shuangge: What we call "psycho-social assistance" in the broad sense of the word - assistance is multifaceted, linking social resources to respond to the current crisis.
就个体层面来讲，可以通过认知、行为的调整来处理问题。
At the individual level, problems can be addressed through cognitive and behavioural modification.
像感染的风险是客观存在，但人的感受是一种主观感受。
Like the risk of infection is an objective existence, but people's feelings are a subjective feeling.
我们控制不了大环境，可以寻找自己能控制的一小部分，寻找局部的安全。
We can't control the environment, we can find a small part of their control, looking for local security.
比如有人小区里有住户被隔离了，他整天怀疑是不是空气里都有病毒？我去过xxx会不会被传染？可以问问自己：小区不安全，但卧室、书房是不是安全的？是否可以找个安全的空间把自己隔离起来，继续做自己能做的事。
If someone in a neighborhood is quarantined, he wonders all day if there is a virus in the air. Have I ever been to xxx to get infected? Ask yourself: Is the neighborhood unsafe, but are the bedrooms and study safe? Can you find a safe place to isolate yourself and continue doing what you can?
比如医护现在没法好好睡觉休息，持续下去会耗竭。
Health care, for example, is not getting enough sleep to rest, which is exhausting.
那能不能积极地寻找机会？比如找个5分钟、10分钟，做腹式呼吸等放松训练，或者短暂午睡一会儿。
Can you actively look for opportunities like 5 minutes, 10 minutes, relaxation exercises such as abdominal breathing, or a short nap.
用小的方法去照料、补充自己的精力。
Take care of yourself and replenish your energy in small ways.
对感染的恐惧，也可以从科学的角度来分析化解，病毒的传播有三个条件：一是有传染源：二是有传播途径，三是有易感人群——并不是每个接触的人就会被传染的，真是这样那还了得？三个条件少一个都没法被传染，你没有密切接触过病人，不出门，出门口罩、眼镜都戴得很好，自己又身强力壮，那被传染的概率很低。
The fear of infection can also be analyzed and dispelled from a scientific point of view. There are three conditions for the spread of the virus: one is the source of infection; the other is that there are transmission routes, and third, the susceptible population is not contagious.
信息不对称和大众对信息的解读，是风险被大众放大并带来恐慌的首要因素。
Information asymmetries and popular interpretations of information are the primary factors that magnify risk and cause panic.
2015年，隋双戈在危机干预现场西英俊：实际的问题不解决的话，不可能用心理学来去替代。
In 2015, Sui and Shuanggo were handsome at the scene of the crisis intervention: psychology is unlikely to replace real problems unless they are resolved.
心理学不可替代物资、安全、医疗方面的保障。
Psychology is no substitute for material, safety and medical security.
这也是我想借此给专业人员的忠告：不要把心理危机干预作为第一干预，心理危机干预永远是放在最后的，永远都是在解决了其他保障的前提下才可以去开展的。
This is what I would like to advise professionals: do not use psychological crisis intervention as the first intervention, psychological crisis intervention is always the last, always on the premise that other guarantees have been addressed.
其他方面的问题可以要命，而心理危机在短时间之内不会对人造成致命打击。
Other problems can be deadly, and the psychological crisis will not be fatal in a short time.
危机干预是在一开始密切关注，提出建议政府和相关部门，哪些问题会造成恐慌、危机，规避谣言造成的负性影响，给予参与救助人员共同的人文关怀。
Crisis intervention involves paying close attention at the outset and making recommendations to the Government and the authorities concerned on the problems that may cause panic, crisis, avoidance of the negative effects of rumours, and common humanitarian care for those involved.
GQ报道：实地进行危机干预时可能遇到什么障碍？比如汶川地震这种重大突发灾害中，安定医院22个人的心理专家组到当地进行危机干预，工作是怎么开展的？西英俊：当时那种情境对于人的冲击是很大的，必须第一时间发现有没有急性应激反应，甚至其他精神障碍的情况。
What are the obstacles to crisis intervention on the ground, such as the Wenchuan earthquake, where a team of 22 psychologists from the Staying Hospital intervened in a crisis? West Handsome: The situation was so overwhelming that people had to find out whether there was an acute stress response or even other mental disorder in the first place.
首先我们跟当地取得联系，根据需求进入到不同的地带开展工作，比如团体治疗、个别治疗，还有对当地工作人员的培训、讲课、督导，然后把信息数据进行汇总上报。
First of all, we contact the local area and work in different areas according to the needs, such as group therapy, individual treatment, training, lectures, supervision of local staff, and then aggregate the information data and report it.
危机干预工作的理念就是这次来帮你们，在我们走后，留下一支不走的队伍。
The idea of crisis intervention is to help you out this time, leaving behind a team that won't walk away.
不是外来人员替代当地心理学专业人员，外来的人员永远都是辅助他们开展工作。
It is not the outsider who takes the place of the local psychologist, but the outside person always assists them in their work.
2008年是心理危机干预工作第一次被放到非常重要的位置上，经验非常缺乏。
The year 2008 was the first time that psychological crisis interventions had been brought to the forefront, and there was a dearth of experience.
有很多人抱着热情去现场，甚至有人打着心理学专业人员的名号去猎奇。
A lot of people went to the scene with enthusiasm, and some even went on the hunt under the name of a professional psychologist.
第一批人的工作做好了，没有统一协调，又有一些打着心理专业的人员去做，实际是二次创伤。
The work of the first group was done, without uniformity and coordination, and by a number of persons specializing in psychology, in fact secondary trauma.
给当地造成了很大的危害。
It has done great harm to the local area.
那次以后就规范了，我后续参与过很多次国家组织的工作，我们到地方后与卫生厅或卫生局对接，征调当地的心理专业人员，一起组成专家组，商定工作制度和方案。
Since then, I have been involved in a number of state-organized work, and when we arrive at the local level, we connect with the Department of Health or the Department of Health, recruit local psychological professionals, form a group of experts and agree on a working system and programme.
比如我们驻扎在一个医院，对志愿也实行统一组织，不允许随随便便地来做所谓的干预，不得有不明身份的人员进出医院。
For example, we are stationed in a hospital, where there is a unified organization of volunteers, where so-called interventions are not permitted and unknown persons are not allowed to enter or leave the hospital.
参与救援的心理危机干预人员佩戴统一标识，事先跟病房负责人联络，了解情况。
The psychological crisis intervention personnel who participate in the rescue wearing a unified logo, contact the head of the ward in advance to understand the situation.
比如一个村子受伤了，一支整齐划一的部队走过来，还不用开始干什么，村子里的人就会看到希望。
For example, if a village is injured and a uniform army comes along, the people in the village will see hope before they do anything about it.
因为队伍的稳定性传递给了村民。
Because the stability of the team passed on to the villagers.
不需要先从技术层面上实施，而是从外在的层面就给大家带来安全感和稳定感。
Do not need to be implemented from the technical level, but from the external level to bring everyone a sense of security and stability.
危机干预工作的信息发布、组织工作进行、救援人员的淡定和沉着、工作的科学性，都是化解危机的过程。
The release of information, the organization of crisis intervention, the calmness and composure of the rescue workers and the scientific nature of the work are all processes of defusing the crisis.
GQ报道：这次新冠肺炎疫情中，一些去世患者的家属，从手忙脚乱找医院、到照顾病人，到料理后事，一定是应激的状态。
Families of some deceased patients must be in a state of stress as they scramble to find hospitals, take care of patients and take care of themselves after the outbreak, GQ reported.
这些人之后会不会有心理创伤？隋双戈：他们后面会进入一种哀伤的阶段， 这跟一般的应激反应不太一样，属于更细的细分领域，叫居丧反应。
Sui and Shuangge: They will enter a stage of sadness behind them, which is not the same as the normal stress response. It belongs to a more subdivision called mourning.
他们失去了亲密关系，前面也会经历否认、怀疑、震惊、麻木，看上去也能正常做很多事情，但慢慢地各种情绪症状就会出来。
They lose intimacy, experience denial, doubt, shock, numbness, and seem to be able to do a lot of things, but slowly all sorts of emotional symptoms come out.
他们会悲痛、焦虑、埋怨、自责，会后悔：“我如果怎么怎么样就好了”“当时如果那么做就好了”……逐渐可能会进入到一段抑郁状态（不一定是抑郁症），感到无力、无意义等等。
They will grieve, fret, complain, blame themselves, and regret: "I wish I had done that..." "If only I had done that..." Gradually they might have gone into a depressive state (not necessarily depression), feeling powerless, meaningless, etc.
后续症状逐渐缓解，会有反复，其他新信息整合进来，逐渐开始新的生活，渐渐走出来。
Follow-up symptoms gradually ease, there will be repeated, other new information into the integration, gradually starting a new life, gradually come out.
这一般需要6个月到1年的时间， 每个个体的情况不同。
This generally takes between six months and one year and varies from one individual to another.
GQ报道：这期间Ta的家人朋友应该注意什么？隋双戈：正常就好。
GQ: What should Ta's family and friends pay attention to during this period? Sui and Shuangge: Normal.
不需要刻意回避，会让他们感觉被疏离，慢慢家庭关系也疏远了。
Do not need to deliberately avoid, will let them feel alienated, slowly the family relationship also estranged.
也没必要刻意拉着他们去说。
There's no need to drag them around.
最好多陪伴他们，到底是陪在身边，还是让他们一个人待着，要看看他们个人的需要。
Better to accompany them, after all, is to stay with them, or let them stay alone, to see their personal needs.
如果当事人想表达，就倾听、陪伴，也不要说“你别想这个事儿了”——这种诉说对他们是一种抒发。
If the person wants to express themselves, listen, accompany, and don't say "Don't think about it" - it's a way of expressing themselves to them.
他们说后悔、自责的情绪，就陪伴他们，情感高涨的时候，说理也是没什么用的，亲友能照顾陪伴就行了。
They say regret, self-reproach mood, accompany them, when feeling high, reasoning is also of little use, friends and relatives can take care of the company.
逝者的物品到底保留、还是收走，也要看当事人的意愿，没有绝对的正确。
Whether the objects of the deceased are kept or taken away also depends on the will of the person concerned and is not absolutely correct.
最主要的是照顾当事人的情绪，不要造成家庭矛盾，或者新的伤害。
The most important thing is to take care of the mood of the person concerned and not to cause family conflicts or new injuries.
亲友在早期也要照顾当事人的作息、饮食、安全等。
Relatives and friends should also take care of the parties in the early days, food, security, etc.
因为当事人此时的意识相对比较狭窄，想事不会那么周全，比如开车的时候就没那么安全。
Because the person concerned is relatively narrow-minded at this time, think things will not be so comprehensive, such as driving when it is not so safe.
如果当事人持续处在强烈痛苦里，或者有自伤、伤人的风险，这就要寻求专业支持，去心理咨询，或到精神科看看ta的情况了。
If the person is in constant and intense pain, or is at risk of self-harm or injury, professional support, counselling, or a visit to a psychiatrist to see him or her is required.
GQ报道：普通人现在应该防范什么心理问题吗？隋双戈：有个术语叫“替代性创伤”，很多人虽然不是灾难事件当事人，但看视频、听消息，听讲述，自己的感受就跟当事人差不多了，这就是替代性创伤。
Sui Shuangge: There is a term for "substitution trauma," in which many people, though not necessarily the ones involved in a disaster, watch videos, listen to news, and listen to stories that make them feel just as good as their clients, and that's the alternative trauma.
尤其现在资讯越发达，各种视频传播得越广，就越容易发生，大众都可能成为替代性创伤的受害者。
In particular, the more developed the information, and the more widely videos are disseminated, the more likely it is that the general public will become victims of alternative trauma.
媒体也要把握如何去担当媒体责任，避免最痛苦的、细致入微的血淋淋的报道引起更多人的这种创伤。
The media must also grasp how to take responsibility for the media, to avoid the most painful, nuanced and bloody reports to cause more of this trauma.
如果是疫情相关工作者，肯定要收集相关信息。
If you are an epidemic worker, you must gather relevant information.
如果不是，每天从早到晚刷消息也是一种应激反应，是一种本能。
If not, the daily brushing of messages from morning to night is also a stress response, an instinct.
可以适当减少关注的频率。
The frequency of attention can be reduced appropriately.
减成半天，一天看一次，能极大地减少对自己的负面冲击。
Reducing to half a day and seeing it once a day greatly reduces the negative impact on yourself.
看消息看正规媒体，也多看一些正向的好消息。
Read the news to see the formal media, but also to see some positive news.
不是看今天多少确诊，而是看确诊的人数是否下降了，看多少人被治愈、多少人解除了隔离。
It is not how many are diagnosed today, but whether the number of people diagnosed has declined, how many have been cured and how many have been removed from isolation.
否则人总会聚焦于自己关注的信息，盯着一个点看，周围的东西你是看不见的，会感觉世界就是这一个点。
Otherwise, people will always focus on their attention to the message, staring at a point, you will not see around you, will feel the world is this point.
也可以做一些让自己感觉好一些的事情，找一点科普知识教给家人，打扫打扫卫生，想想自己的规划……做自己该做的事就好了。
You can do things that make you feel better, teach your family a little bit about science, clean up your house, think about your plans... and just do what you have to do.
GQ报道：参与一线危机干预的人本身会遇到心理上的问题吗？包括提供心理援助的志愿者们。
Do people involved in frontline crisis intervention have their own psychological problems, including volunteers who provide psychological assistance, GQ said.
西英俊：也会。
West Handsome: Yes, too.
专业人员也会有一定的情感卷入，既往的创伤也可能被这些事件激发出来，所以我们做好自我防护非常重要，这是危机干预工作必不可少的一部分。
Professionals also have some emotional involvement and past traumas can be triggered by these events, so it's important that we protect ourselves, which is an essential part of crisis intervention.
我们在现场工作的时候，每次工作完以后汇总讨论，其实都是在处理这些事情。
When we work on the ground, we gather together after every job, and we're dealing with these things.
专业人员的稳定性、自我处理危机的能力，决定了你能够带给别人的稳定性和你处理别人危机的能力。
The stability and self-management skills of professionals determine the stability you can bring to others and your ability to cope with other people's crises.
这是相一致的。
This is consistent.
2013年“4.20”四川雅安地震，西英俊在为孩子做个别心理干预GQ报道：非典和这次疫情有一个很大的共同点，信息给人们造成的恐慌。
The 2013 "4. 20" earthquake in Ya'an, Sichuan, West handsome in the individual psychological intervention for children GQ reported: SARS and this epidemic have a great common, people caused panic.
有人在封城前离开了武汉，对于这种所谓的“逃跑者”应该如何进行危机干预？公众采取什么态度会更有帮助？西英俊：这可能跟我们危机干预工作还是两回事，这是一个全民健康教育的过程。
Some people left Wuhan before the closure of the city, how should the so-called "runaways" intervene in the crisis? What attitude would the public take? West Handsome: Maybe it's different from our crisis intervention, it's a national health education process.
一些走的人是不了解疫情，回家过年。
Some people are not aware of the outbreak of the New Year home.
一些是带着惶恐的心态逃离武汉，我认为这是可以理解的。
Some fled Wuhan with trepidation, which I think is understandable.
这情况引发了一些外地人对武汉人的一种偏见。
This situation caused some outsiders to Wuhan people a bias.
整个社会对他们包容、接纳，才能让他们感到安全，才会让他们讲实情，得到及时的帮助和隔离，避免扩散。
Their inclusion and acceptance by society as a whole will make them feel safe, will allow them to tell the truth, receive timely help and isolation, and avoid proliferation.
如果是民众间对抗，让武汉居民东躲西藏，风险更大。
If it is a confrontation between the people, let Wuhan residents hide in Tibet, the greater the risk.
这件事也在反映社会的成熟度，反应出大众的心态，是否宽容、包容，是不是真的众志成城地解决这个问题。
This matter is also reflecting the maturity of society, reflects the public mentality, whether tolerance, tolerance, whether the problem is really a matter of public resolve.
实际上没有任何一个人可以保证说我在这一生当中不会摊上这样的事。
In fact, no one can guarantee that I will not stump it for the rest of my life.
GQ报道：眼下对新冠肺炎的心理援助志愿者很多，但求助者少。
There are many volunteers for psychological help with pneumonia, but few are looking for help, GQ reported.
会不会真正的心理问题高峰期还没有开始？隋双戈：社会心理援助，从什么时间节点都可以开始，只不过不同时期任务不一样。
Sui and Shuanggo: Psychosocial assistance can start at any point in time, but the tasks are different from time to time.
这次疫情结束后，各种支持、援助肯定要慢慢地撤回来，那时可能才是心理问题的真正高峰期。
After this outbreak, all kinds of support, aid must be slowly back, then may be the real peak of psychological problems.
像汶川地震，当时潮水般的人涌进来，一起抗震救灾时，大家其实都处在应激状态，很多东西是被压抑的，顾不上的。
Like the Wenchuan earthquake, when the tide-like people poured in, together with the earthquake relief, we are in fact in a state of stress, many things are suppressed, ignored.
当生活回到正轨，应激状态消除，一些正常的反应就该出来了，但这时的心理支持又没那么多了。
When life is back on track and stress is over, some of the normal reactions should come out, but there's not that much psychological support.
一些人会变得抑郁，像出现自杀这样的极端状况，也是有可能的。
Some people become depressed, and extreme conditions like suicide are possible.
我们现有所做的，就是通过宣传科普，希望全社会都能吸取当年的经验、教训；通过为心理援助人员和机构提供培训、督导，救助当下，备战未来。
What we have done now is to promote the science popularization and hope that the whole society can learn from the experience and lessons of that year, and help the present and prepare for the future by providing training, supervision and assistance to psychological aid workers and institutions.
GQ报道：媒体记者、心理咨询师，从休假状态转移到工作状态，开始使用专业技能，算不算也是一种个人情绪的自救？隋双戈：确实能降低自己的焦虑啊。
Sui and Shuangge: Can you really reduce your anxiety by shifting from a state of vacation to one of work and starting to use professional skills? Sui and Shuangge?
这是一种自我效能感，发现自己还有用，能帮助到别人，本身就是降低焦虑、处理创伤的方式。
It's a sense of self-efficacy, and finding yourself useful in helping others is itself a way to reduce anxiety and deal with trauma.
对其他行业的人也是，能帮助别人，就感觉好一点，或者自己去做有意义的事情，有很多好处。
It's also good for people in other industries to be able to help others, to feel better, or to do something meaningful themselves.
GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
If you are in an epidemic area, affected by the epidemic, or know all kinds of information that contribute to the prevention and treatment of the epidemic, please contact us at any time! Whether you are a health care worker, patient and family member, suspected patient, material supplier, transporter, volunteer, epidemic area service personnel, professional with knowledge of epidemic situation.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：刘敏、徐沉沉编辑：于蒙运营编辑：肖呱呱、二水。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! In the public backstage reply colored eggs, send you a colorful egg interview, writing: Liu Min, Xu Leng editor: Yu Meng operation editor: Xiao quack, Ershui.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的心理援助：寻找局部的安全。
Psychological assistance in an epidemic: looking for local security.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的心理援助：寻找局部的安全";。
var msg _ title = & quot; psychological assistance in the outbreak: seeking local safety and security;;
var msg_desc = "发现自己还很有用，能帮助到别人，本身就是降低焦虑、处理创伤的方式。
var msg _ desc = & quot; finding yourself useful and helpful to others is in itself a way to reduce anxiety and deal with trauma.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; when the epidemic ended.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情让人吃不下睡不着不停刷手机，该如何自救？',。
A: How did you help yourself when the outbreak kept you awake and brushing your cell phone?
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情危机中不被看见的人们：武汉周边城市百姓的自救行动',。
People invisible in the crisis: AT & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
