与武汉乘客同机：双方的困境。
With Wuhan Passenger: The Dilemma of Both sides.
薛芃。
Ariel.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
2020年1月29日上午9点41分，“杭州发布”通报，1月28日杭州新增确诊人数19名，其中有2名，正是来自1月24日新加坡酷航的TR188航班。
At 9: 41 a.m. on January 29, 2020, Hangzhou announces that 19 new cases were confirmed in Hangzhou on January 28, two of them from Singapore's cool flight TR188 on January 24.
该航班1月24日从新加坡樟宜机场飞往杭州萧山机场，当航班抵达的第二天，就已确诊2名新冠肺炎患者，现在，这个数字上升至4名。
The flight flew from Singapore's Changi airport to Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport on January 24, and two new cases of pneumonia were confirmed the day after the flight's arrival.
机上335名乘客中，有116人原本飞往武汉，但由于武汉航班取消，他们不得不选择其他航班回国，杭州成了他们集体选择的目的地。
Of the 335 passengers on board, 116 were originally flown to Wuhan, but as Wuhan flights were cancelled, they had to choose another flight home, making it their collective choice.
一边是非武汉乘客本能的不安与担忧，另一边是武汉人害怕成为病源的忐忑与回国心切，在两难的抉择面前，谁来保护他们各自的权益？记者 | 薛芃 驳静“杭州的先下”1月24日下午，戴永新一家三口很早就到了樟宜机场，没能买到口罩。
On the one hand, non-Wuhan passengers instinctively worried and worried, and on the other hand, Wuhan people feared to become a source of illness. In the face of this dilemma, who will protect their respective rights and interests?
远在杭州的大儿子头一天就告诉他，“最好买一点口罩”，他在酒店附近的大商场和几家“7-11”都没能买到。
"Better buy a mask," the oldest son in Hangzhou told him the day before. "He couldn't get one at the mall near the hotel or at several" 7-11 "shops.
他们一家三口，直到飞机降落后，才从防疫人员手中领到口罩。
The family of three did not receive the mask until after the plane landed.
与4位确诊患者共乘一机的他们，全程没有防护，对于能否顺利解除隔离，戴永新心中忐忑。
With four confirmed patients sharing a machine, the whole journey without protection, for the smooth release of isolation, Dai Yongxin heart perturbed.
同样忐忑的还有徐可与父母。
Also perturbed Xu and his parents.
他回想起来，新加坡机场的安检“形同虚设”，尤其是没有测量体温，似乎对当前的疫情显得漫不经心。
In retrospect, security checks at Singapore's airports were "dead letter," particularly the absence of temperature measurements, and seemed indifferent to the current outbreak.
原本这架航班上有4个团，其他都是散客。
There were four regiments on this flight. The rest were individual passengers.
其中的赵女士留意到，酷航更改过一次飞机型号，她后来怀疑，“是为了增加武汉改签杭州的116名乘客临时换的”。
Ms. Zhao, one of them, noticed that Cruise had changed the model of the plane once and later suspected that "it was to increase the number of passengers temporarily changed from Wuhan to Hangzhou."
得知武汉肺炎疫情后，新加坡酷航决定取消1月23日到2月2日期间所有飞往武汉的航班，原本这些航班的乘客可全额退款或自愿选择酷航其他航班，飞往大陆其他城市及港、澳地区，或将机票无限延期。
When told of the outbreak of pneumonia in Wuhan, Singapore Cruise decided to cancel all flights to Wuhan between Jan. 23 and Feb. 2. Passengers of these flights can either refund in full or voluntarily choose other flights to other cities on the mainland and to Hong Kong and Macau, or have their tickets extended indefinitely.
徐可一家是登机比较晚的一拨人，坐在飞机的后排。
The Xu family, a late group of people, sat in the back of the plane.
此时，前面的位子已基本坐满。
At this point, the front seat is almost full.
5个小时后，飞机于1月24日晚上9点半落地杭州萧山国际机场。
Five hours later, the plane landed at Xiaoshan International Airport in Hangzhou at 9.30 p.m. on January 24.
一看表，比计划早了15分钟。
Look at your watch. It's 15 minutes ahead of schedule.
机舱广播让乘客暂缓行动，按住了部分飞机一停稳就拿取行李的乘客。
The cabin broadcast put passengers on hold, holding down passengers who had picked up their luggage as soon as part of the plane had stopped.
十几分钟后，上来2位身穿防护服的人。
Ten minutes later, two men in protective clothing came up.
受访者供图波音787是宽型客机，有2个通道，2名防疫人员从通道一头开始分发“健康申报卡”。
The respondents told him that the 787 was a wide-bodied airliner with two lanes, and that two immunization workers began distributing "health declaration cards" from the end of the tunnel.
戴永新一家三口的座位在飞机中间一排，发到他们的时候，他问，“为什么不让空姐一起发”，他以平常国际航班乘务员发放入境卡为经验，想不明白为何发表格不能发得高效一点。
When Dai Yongxin's three-member family sat in a row in the middle of the plane, he asked them, "Why don't you let the flight attendants fly together?"
他得到的回答是，“你不要管”。
The answer he got was, "Never mind."
跟经验老道的戴永新相比，徐可则“老实”得多，21岁还在读大学的他对眼前发生的这一切都感到新鲜。
Xu is much more honest than the veteran Dai Yongxin, 21, who is still in college and feels fresh about what is happening.
他以为，这些都是航空公司和机场检疫在非常时期的常规程序，和大多数旅客一样，填完表后，耐心地待着等出舱。
These, he thought, were the usual procedures for airline and airport quarantine in times of emergency. Like most passengers, they waited patiently to get out of the cabin after completing the forms.
从发表格到最终放行，大概花去一个半小时。
It takes about an hour and a half from publication to final release.
飞机广播终于通知，“武汉乘客或最近去过武汉的乘客原地不动，其他乘客有序下机”。
"Wuhan passengers or those who have recently been to Wuhan have stayed where they are and other passengers have disembarked in an orderly fashion," the plane said.
徐可坐在最后一个机舱，他跟着人流一点一点往前舱门移动，越往前走，他发现坐着的人越多，他本以为这些乘客只是不愿挤，但从他们身边路过时，低头瞟见，他们表格中“出境地”一栏，填的都是“武汉”。
Xu could sit in the last cabin. As he followed the crowd, he moved the hatch bit by bit. As he went further, he noticed that the more people sat, the more people he thought they just didn't want to squeeze.
直到这时，他才意识到整架飞机约有三分之一的座位，都坐着武汉人，远比猜测中多得多。
Only then did he realize that about a third of the seats on the plane were filled by Wuhan people, far more than he had guessed.
那一瞬间，徐可心态有点崩了，本能地开始感到恐惧。
At that moment, Xu Ke mentality a bit avalanche, instinctively began to feel fear.
1月25日这天，新型冠状肺炎通报的全国确诊病例达1975人，其它国家也陆续有诊症病例传出。
On January 25, 1975 people were notified of the new type of coronary pneumonia, and other countries began to report cases.
人虽在“新马”，心思却被每天手机里的信息牵住，这么多“武汉出境者”，更使一家人感到不安。
Although people in the "new horse," mind is daily mobile phone information, so many "Wuhan Outbound", the family feel even more uneasy.
徐可没想到，在回家的最后一道关卡上，他们和一百多位武汉人共同处在一个密闭空间里，长达7小时。
Xu did not expect that in the last home level, they and more than 100 Wuhan people in a closed space, for up to seven hours.
“当时我也不知道都想了些什么，但已经做好了被感染的心理准备。
"I didn't know what I was thinking, but I was ready to get infected.
我自己倒还好，就是担心爸妈，不是说好多被传染的都是中老年吗？”机场除夕夜等他们到机场大厅，离飞机落地有1个多小时。
Im all right, Im worried about my parents, arent I telling you that a lot of the infected ones are middle-aged or old I waited for them to arrive at the airport lobby on New Year's Eve more than an hour before the plane landed.
戴永新在饮水机处，碰到飞机上服务他们那几排的空乘小姐——11名机组人员，将与219名乘客一起被隔离。
At the water dispenser, Dai encountered rows of flight attendants - 11 crew members - who would be quarantined with 219 passengers.
戴永新回想起，飞行期间，这位空乘曾试图为他们一家三口调换位置，但后来又放弃了。
Dai recalled that the flight attendant had tried to change seats for the family of three during the flight, but later gave up.
他于是上前问她，“是不是我们边上有武汉乘客”。
He then asked her, "Is there a Wuhan passenger next to us?"
这位空乘员长得很好看，也是杭州人，不过对她老乡提出的问题，给了一个以模棱两可的答案。
The flight attendant was a pretty-looking, Hangzhou-based crew member, but gave an ambiguous answer to her fellow townsman's questions.
受访者供图戴永新最后一次看到“武汉人”，就在到达机场大厅后不久。
The interviewee told Tu to see "Wuhan Man" for the last time, shortly after arriving at the airport lobby.
他本以为，下了飞机后，就没有机会与他们再有交集，没想到又看到了，是两位姑娘。
He had thought that when he got off the plane, he had no chance to meet them again. He did not expect to see them again.
她们出现在视野中时，左右各有3名“护法”，将二人护在中间。
When they appear in the field of vision, there are three "guardians" on each side, protecting the two in the middle.
赵女士也看到了这一幕，她觉得这两位姑娘是“二十出头”，“围着她们的起码有4个人”。
Zhao saw the scene, too. She thought the two girls were in their early twenties and had at least four people around them.
他们都是身穿防护服的工作人员，一行人出现时挺引人注目，朝机场洗手间走去。
They were all wearing protective clothing, and when the party appeared, they were conspicuous and headed for the airport lavatory.
受访者供图这之后，飞机上的“武汉人”和“非武汉人”彻底分开。
The interviewees told us that after this, the "Wuhan people" and "non-Wuhan people" on the plane were completely separated.
原本飞往武汉的116名乘客被带到了更封闭的地方，进行更细致的隔离检查。
The 116 passengers who had flown to Wuhan were taken to a more closed area for more detailed quarantine checks.
凌晨3点左右，来了一位工作人员，告诉大家说，116名乘客的检查结果出来了，“其中7位有异常”。
Around 3 a. m., a crew member arrived to tell the crowd that 116 passengers had been tested and that "seven of them were abnormal."
原本落地杭州的219名乘客，整个晚上都待在T3国际航站楼的一楼大厅里。
The 219 passengers who landed in Hangzhou spent the night in the lobby of the T3 international terminal.
越到夜里越冷，这些刚从热带国家回国的人也没带够衣服，徐可和父母把所有能穿能披的都套上，再加上机场发的毯子，可还是不够，就这么捱到了早上。
The colder the night, the less clothes the newcomers had brought home from the tropics. Xu and his parents put on all the things they could wear and the blankets from the airport, but they weren't enough.
上午10点左右，杭州市“冠状病毒肺炎”防控指挥部发布官方消息，称“飞机着陆后，2名发烧人员将送至萧山区第一人民医院，其余武汉乘客在机场宾馆就地隔离，219名其他乘客在市委党校集中医学观察”。
About 10 a.m., Hangzhou "coronavirus pneumonia" control command issued an official report, said that "after the plane landed, two fever personnel will be sent to the Xiaoshan First People's Hospital, the remaining Wuhan passengers at the airport hotel in situ, 219 other passengers in the city's Party School concentrated medical observation.
萧山区第一人民医院是国家三乙医院，也是距离机场最近的一家综合性医院。
Xiaoshan First People's Hospital is the country's third B hospital, is also the nearest to the airport a general hospital.
受访者供图戴永新听他儿子在网上刷到这条消息，不久，才得到工作人员的现场确认，来者说，先把大家送到宾馆去，如果没有问题就可以回家。
The interviewee told Tu Dai Yongxin to hear the news from his son on the Internet. It was not long before the staff confirmed on the spot that he would take everyone to the hotel first and go home if there were no problems.
在机场度过不眠之夜的这219位乘客，终于可以前往下一站，正如公告所说，他们果真将前往杭州市委党校。
The 219 passengers, who spent sleepless nights at the airport, were finally able to go to the next stop and, as the notice said, to Hangzhou Municipal Party School.
按戴永新的观察，车队浩荡有七八辆车之多，5辆大巴，另有领队警车，每两辆大巴中间，又有警车做间隔。
According to Dai Yongxin's observation, the motorcade has a huge fleet of seven or eight vehicles, five buses and a squad car with police cars spaced between two buses.
约一个小时后，他们到达目的地。
About an hour later, they arrived at their destination.
此时，已经是1月25日中午，离他们落地萧山机场超过12个小时。
It was already noon on January 25, more than 12 hours before they landed at Xiaoshan Airport.
这不安的一夜，也恰是除夕夜。
The restless night was New Year's Eve.
隔离开始杭州市委党校宾馆的条件不错，一人住一个标间，每天有送餐机器人定点送饭，需要任何生活必需品，在专门组建的微信群里发言，就有专人帮忙去买，包括大衣、外套。
Hangzhou Municipal Party School Guesthouse conditions are good, a person living in a standard room, daily delivery robot fixed-point food delivery, need any necessities of life, in a specially organized micro-letter group to speak, someone to help buy, including coats, jackets.
因为天冷，隔离观察又不能开热暖气，因此每人还会分到一个热水袋来取暖。
Because it is cold and cannot be heated in isolation, each person is given a hot water bag to keep warm.
被隔离的乘客和空乘人员要做的，就是每天定点测体温，上午9点半、下午3点各一次，确保身体没有不适。
All passengers and flight attendants are expected to do is take a daily temperature check at 9: 30 a.m. and 3: 00 p.m. to make sure they feel well.
其他的大把时间都属于自己，与外界沟通的唯一方式就是网络。
The only way to communicate with the outside world is through the Internet.
在萧山机场附近宾馆隔离的其余武汉乘客，也过着相似的生活，这样持续14天，其间不与任何人接触，除非感到身体不对劲要看医生。
The remaining Wuhan passengers, isolated at a hotel near Xiaoshan airport, led a similar life, lasting 14 days without any contact with anyone, unless they felt ill and wanted to see a doctor.
被隔离的第一天晚上，徐可发了低烧。
On the first night of isolation, Xu had a low fever.
他没有惊慌，很平静，因为在走出舱门时，他就预想到了这一刻的到来。
He was not alarmed, but calm, for as he came out of the hatch, he anticipated the moment.
徐可很快在微信群里联系了医生，体温37.8度，没有其他特殊症状，与冠状新型肺炎表征很大的差别是，徐可的喉咙发炎了，医生推测可能只是普通的感冒发烧。
Xu quickly contacted the doctor in the microphone group, with a temperature of 37.8 degrees and no other specific symptoms. In marked contrast to the appearance of the new coronary pneumonia, Xu Ke's throat was inflamed and doctors speculated that it might be just a common cold fever.
徐可想想也是，毕竟前一晚在机场冻得够呛。
Xu thought, after all, the night before at the airport was freezing cold.
受访者供图虽然徐可早有心理准备，但当母亲知道儿子发烧时，一下就哭了。
Although Xu had been prepared psychologically, her mother cried when she learned that her son had a fever.
一家三口的房间互相挨着，却见不到面，每天只能靠视频聊天，这一堵墙隔得好像有几千公里远似的。
The three-person family lived next to each other, but could not see each other and could only chat by video every day, a wall that seemed thousands of kilometres away.
219名乘客里有不少孩子。
Many of the 219 passengers were children.
赵女士的女儿才6岁，得以跟她住在同一个房间。
Ms. Zhao's daughter, a 6-year-old, was able to share a room with her.
漫漫14天，她哄女儿的方式是告诉她，“妈妈带你到另一个地方度假，咱们做一个游戏，在这里住半个月”。
For 14 days, the way she coaxed her daughter was to tell her, "Mom takes you on holiday to another place, we play a game and stay here for half a month."
第二天，女儿就说想回家，赵女士只能继续她善意的谎言：“还不行，要半个月，游戏咱们不能输”。
The next day, the daughter said she wanted to go home, Ms. Zhao can only continue her well-meaning lie: "Not yet, it takes half a month, we can not lose the game."
如果事先得知真相，她认为自己会选择“下飞机，只要舱门还没关”。
If she knew the truth beforehand, she thought she would choose to "get off the plane as long as the hatch is still open."
隔离期间，她咨询了律师朋友，得到的解释是，航空公司对乘客有“安全保障义务”和“告知义务”。
During the quarantine, she consulted lawyers and friends and was told that airlines had a "safety obligation" and a "duty to inform" passengers.
另一个她想不通的点在于，两批乘客即便上了同一趟飞机，为何将大家交叉混坐，而不是区隔开来？不过就像赵女士所假设，倘若真的被事先告知，他们当中将有多少人愿意继续搭乘这趟航班？这是个未知数。
Another thing she couldn't figure out was why the two groups of passengers, even on the same flight, would cross-sit rather than separate each other.But, as Ms Zhao assumes, how many of them would have preferred to continue on this flight if they had been told in advance?
两种困境酷航不是唯一做此选择的航空公司。
Cruise is not the only airline to have made that choice.
1月25日，马来西亚飞往天津的OD688航班上，有31名武汉乘客。
On January 25, 31 Wuhan passengers were on board Malaysia's flight OD688 to Tianjin.
北京人高珊告诉记者，飞机一降落，她就看到地面有十来名身着防护服的人，他们上飞机后，乘客才得知，同机原来武汉乘客，其中1位有发烧情况。
Gao Shan, a Beijing resident, told reporters she saw a dozen men in protective clothing on the ground as soon as the plane landed. It was only when they got on the plane that passengers learned that one of them had a fever.
在飞机上等待4个小时后，后排一位年长男性乘客被率先带离飞机，高珊注意到，即便此时，他也没有戴口罩，也没有被防疫工作人员要求做其它防护措施。
After waiting four hours on the plane, an elderly male passenger in the back row was first taken off the plane and Gosshan noticed that even then he was not wearing a mask and had not been asked by the vaccination workers to take other protective measures.
被安排在最后几排的这31名武汉乘客，也只有部分佩戴口罩。
The 31 Wuhan passengers, who were placed in the last rows, were only partially wearing masks.
第2天，高珊从网上得知，这位发热病人就被确诊了，并且“为重症病例”。
The next day, Gossyan learned from the Internet that the feverish patient had been diagnosed and was "seriously ill."
1月27日，此31名武汉乘客又新增一例确证患者。
On January 27, the 31 Wuhan passengers added a confirmed case of the patient.
也就是这天，微信群中的工作人员才松口说，“不出意外，需要隔离14天”。
It was on this day that the staff of the microphone group relaxed and said, "No accident, it takes 14 days of isolation."
至今也没有人告诉他们所处何地。
They have not been told where they are.
高珊从手机地图上揣测，他们应当是被隔离在天津手电筒厂厂区的一处招待所中。
Gossyan surmises from the mobile phone map that they should be quarantined in a guest house at the Tianjin Flashlight Factory.
同是1月25日，又有3架载有本应飞往武汉的乘客的国际航班，降落在杭州萧山机场，分别是AK1574、CA734、MF8642，从马来西亚沙巴、泰国曼谷和日本大阪飞来，3个航班上共25名武汉人，其中有1名发热病人。
Also on 25 January, three more international flights carrying passengers destined for Wuhan landed at Hangzhou Xiaoshan Airport, namely AK 1574, CA734 and MF8642, coming from Sabah, Bangkok, Thailand, and Osaka, Japan. There were 25 Wuhan people on three flights, including one with fever.
第二天同一时间大阪飞杭州的航班，又延续了这种情况。
This was repeated the next day on a flight from Osaka to Hangzhou at the same time.
图片来自微博网友@巧克力乌龟机上乘客经历大抵相同，打算返回武汉的乘客发现航班取消，不得已改签，落地或医治或隔离；而非武汉人在一无所知的情况下上了飞机，落地后才知道自己在刚才的几个小时中并不安全。
Passengers on their way back to Wuhan have found the flight canceled and had to change planes, land, or be treated or quarantined. Not until the plane landed did the Wuhan people know that they were not safe for the last few hours.
夹在他们中间是航空公司，航空公司是否应该将两拨乘客安排在同一班客机上？同乘一架飞机，是否应当做起码的区隔？是否应当尽到“告知义务”？是否应当发放口罩及提供其它防护措施？上述航班的乘客都提出了这些疑问。
Coupled with them is the airline, should the airlines place two groups of passengers on the same flight? Should there be a minimum distinction between them? Should they do their "duty to inform"? Should they be issued masks and other protective measures? Passengers of the flights have raised these questions.
问题的另一面则是如何保障武汉人的利益。
The other side of the coin is how to safeguard the interests of Wuhan people.
1月27日，南航CZ380由日本名古屋飞往上海，上海乘客觉察到同机有武汉乘客后，向机场反应，不愿与他们同乘一架飞机。
On January 27, SIA CZ380 flew from Nagoya, Japan, to Shanghai, where Shanghai passengers, aware of the presence of Wuhan passengers on board, responded to the airport and refused to share a plane with them.
最终，武汉乘客得以单独飞回上海，接受检查与医治。
Eventually, Wuhan passengers were able to fly back to Shanghai alone for examination and medical treatment.
对遭遇“嫌弃”的武汉乘客来说，封城后有家难回，何尝不是艰难的困境。
To encounter "aversion" to Wuhan passengers, after the closure of the home difficult to return, it is not a difficult dilemma.
这种困境既来自同胞的排斥，也来自部分航空公司“不接受湖北旅客”的措施，疫情当前，留给武汉乘客的选择并不多。
This dilemma comes from the exclusion of compatriots, but also from some airlines "do not accept Hubei tourists" measures, the current epidemic situation, Wuhan passengers left few options.
作为运送乘客的一线，如何兼顾湖北与非湖北乘客的利益，对航空公司来说也是个挑战。
As a first-line passenger transportation, how to balance the interests of Hubei and non-Hubei passengers is also a challenge for airlines.
在“善待武汉人”的口号中，当身边真的出现武汉人时，能否真的如倡议般善待，又该如何切实地既帮助他们又保护自己？在疫情面前，人与人之间相互防备的界线究竟该如何把控？病疫边界和人道关怀又该如何平衡？面对即将到来的“返工潮”，这既是对个人，也是对社会提出的更大难题。
In the slogan of "Be kind to Wuhan people," when Wuhan people really appear around, can really as good as the initiative, and how to effectively help them and protect themselves? In the face of the epidemic, how to balance the boundaries of disease and humanitarian care? This is a greater challenge for individuals and society at large.
（戴永新、徐可、高珊为化名，实习记者张佳婧对本文亦有帮助）作者档案薛芃上海、浙江地区疫情一线人员及社区防疫工作者，欢迎与我联系。
Ariel Shanghai and Zhejiang are frontline workers and community epidemic prevention workers. Please contact me. Ariel Shanghai and her community are welcome to contact her.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@kottabos驳静返京人员进小区困难者请与我联系。
26 minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo: @ kottabos Returning to Beijing Please contact me.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博、豆瓣都是：驳静请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Lifestyle Weekly individual tweet and pea petal 26 minutes ago: Jie Jing please stamp [Wuhan New Pneumonia Series] The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
薛芃。
Ariel.
别忘记昨夜，永远记住。
Don't forget last night. Always remember.
。
.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
别忘记昨夜，永远记住。
Don't forget last night. Always remember.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
与武汉乘客同机：双方的困境。
With Wuhan Passenger: The Dilemma of Both sides.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "与武汉乘客同机：双方的困境";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with Wuhan passenger: & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一边是非武汉乘客本能的不安与担忧，另一边是武汉人害怕成为病源的忐忑与回国心切，在两难的抉择面前，谁来保护他们各自的权益？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;.
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
