运力短缺、口罩不足，快递小哥的安全谁来守护？。
Shortage of capacity, insufficient masks, express brother's safety who will guard?
周伊雪 杨霞。
Zhou Yi Xue Yang Xia.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫记者：周伊雪 杨霞  编辑：文姝琪“ 全国性的人员流动被按下暂停键，依赖线下运力的外卖、快递等行业也因此受到影响。
Source: Toothworm reporter: Zhou Yi Xue Yang Xia editor: Wen Ningqi "National movement of people was pressed to suspend key, relying on the offline capacity of the takeaway, express and other industries also affected.
”晚上12点刚过，为次日采购食材的张丽就无奈地发现，7Fresh生鲜超市预约配送的十几个时段已经全部被约满，另一个买菜平台每日优鲜，则暂时下线了两小时内履约的极速达服务，只剩下三日内发货的优鲜超市可供选择。
"Just after 12: 00 pm, Zhang Li, who buys ingredients for the next day, found she had been booked up for more than a dozen times. Another shopping platform, which is daily good, is temporarily out of service for two hours, leaving excellent supermarkets available for delivery within three days.
受疫情影响，张丽已经尽量减少外出的频率，每日食材所需基本都在线上采购。
Affected by the outbreak, Zhang Li has minimized the frequency of travel, the daily food needs of the basic online procurement.
与张丽有类似想法的人不在少数，随着疫情爆发，各大生鲜电商平台的订单量都迎来了一波猛增。
Zhang Li has similar ideas with a number of people, as the outbreak of major live electrical business platform orders have experienced a wave of surge.
对各大生鲜电商来说，这本是快速扩张业务的好时机。
This would have been a good time for a fast-expanding business for big live-TV companies.
在积极调整供应链，保证货品供应充足之后，平台们却发现，人手不足、运力短缺又成了新的瓶颈。
After actively adjusting the supply chain to ensure an adequate supply of goods, the platforms found that understaffing and lack of capacity were new bottlenecks.
不光是生鲜电商，春节后逐步恢复正常业务的快递业也卡在了同样的瓶颈上。
Not only the raw electricity business, Spring Festival after the gradual restoration of normal business express industry also stuck in the same bottleneck.
据国家邮政局的数据，全国一线快递员超过300万。
According to the National Post Office, there are more than 3 million first-tier couriers nationwide.
另据美团的报告显示，2018年全年共有270多万名骑手在美团平台获得收入。
In 2018, more than 2.7 million riders earned income on the U.S. tour platform, according to the report.
总数近600万的快递员、配送员群体中有七成来自农村地区。
Seventy percent of the nearly six million couriers and distributors come from rural areas.
为防控疫情扩散，各地政府都出台一些措施来管控人员流动。
To prevent and control the spread of the epidemic, governments around the world have introduced measures to control the movement of people.
这导致返乡过年的快递员、配送员等暂时无法回到工作地。
This has led to the return home couriers, distribution staff and other temporary inability to return to work.
全国性的人员流动被按下暂停键，依赖线下运力的外卖、快递等行业也因此受到影响。
Movement across the country has been suspended, affecting sectors such as take-out, express delivery and reliance on offline capacity.
口罩储备量不一在全国大部分小区被封闭管理之后，居民每天最常见的应该就是快递员和配送员了。
After most neighborhoods around the country have been closed, the most common daily occurrence for residents should be couriers and distributors.
与此同时，快递员们是否有足够的口罩，是否做好自我保护措施，也成为居民关心的问题。
At the same time, whether couriers have enough masks and are prepared to protect themselves has also become a concern for residents.
在人员聚集的站点，快递员们都会戴着口罩，互相之间也尽量减少语言交流。
At crowded sites, couriers wear masks and minimize verbal communication with each other.
但口罩仍然是稀缺的防护品，每个快递员是否有足量的口罩，也取决于其站点负责人的储备情况。
But masks are still a scarce protection, and whether each courier has enough masks depends on his or her site manager's stock.
中通快递四川某县级网点老板对界面新闻表示，他们从2月9日开始复工，站点有11个快递员返回，加上文员和操作员，共有14名员工。
The owner of a county-level office in Sichuan told Interface News that they had resumed work on February 9 with 11 couriers returning, plus clerks and operators, for a total of 14 employees.
目前其储备了400多个普通口罩，每天给员工发一个，上班前要给员工检测体温，上下班还要用消毒水。
It now has more than 400 common face masks in stock, giving employees a daily dose of body temperature and disinfectant to get to and from work.
当地邮政管理局统一采购了两大桶消毒水，每桶大约50斤，预计可以使用一个月。
The local postal administration has procured two large drums of disinfectant, approximately 50 kilos per barrel, which is expected to last one month.
但若这400个口罩用完，再去哪里采购，这位老板也很犯愁，“县城药店已经没有口罩卖了。
But if the 400 masks run out, where to shop, the boss is also worried, "county pharmacies have no masks to sell.
打听了一些卖口罩的个人卖家，N95要25元一个，买不起。
Ask a few individual seller that sells mask, N95 wants 25 yuan a, cannot afford.
现在剩下的口罩是托朋友买的，价格贵点，每个3块多。
Now the rest of the mask is entrusted to friends to buy, the price is expensive, each more than 3.
听朋友说，估计后面口罩还要涨价。
Listen to a friend, estimate the price of masks behind the price.
”某快递公司湖北分公司负责人则称，公司集中组织采购了两批防疫物资，包括医用口罩、N95口罩、消毒水（片）、护目镜、防护服以及医用手套等。
The head of Hubei branch of a courier company said the company had focused on two batches of vaccines, including medical masks, N95 masks, disinfectant tablets, goggles, protective clothing and medical gloves.
在武汉封城后，公司没有正式复工，但是有部分员工在值班，并且参与到一线救援物资的运输中。
After the closure of Wuhan, the company did not formally resume work, but some of the staff on duty, and involved in the delivery of first-line relief supplies.
以其武汉分拨中心为例，平时员工数量有500-600人，目前在岗人员有30人左右，包括管理人员、分拣工、装卸工以及运输司机。
Wuhan Allotment Center, for example, has 500-600 employees in peacetime, and about 30 people are currently on duty, including managers, sorters, loaders and transport drivers.
在保护措施上，对于所有员工，该公司在其每天进出操作场地时均要进行测体温、登记工作；对于普通的室内工作的在岗员工，每人每天发一个普通医用口罩；对于送物资到一线的司机，额外发放N95口罩、护目镜、防护服以及手套。
In terms of protective measures, the company takes temperature measurements and registers every day as it moves in and out of the operating premises. For ordinary indoor workers, a daily medical mask is issued to each person on duty; for drivers delivering supplies to the front line, additional N95 masks, goggles, protective clothing and gloves are distributed.
目前看来，在其储备的防疫、消杀物资中，普通口罩剩余1万多个，按照每个员工一天一个的水平，短期内够值班员工用。
At present, in its reserve of epidemic prevention, disinfection supplies, more than 10,000 common masks, according to the level of one staff per day, short-term enough for duty staff.
但如果全面复工的话，这些储备也不够用。
But these reserves will not be sufficient if work resumes fully.
上述负责人告诉界面新闻，“如果真的全面复工，每天的消耗会巨大。
"If we really get back to work, the daily cost will be huge," the person in charge told Interface News.
就要根据情况抓紧采购。
Purchasing should be accelerated according to the situation.
一部分找总部帮忙，一部分就要自己想办法了。
Some turn to the head office for help, some of them have to figure out their own ways.
”即便公司提供了口罩等防护物资，一线的快递员和配送员每天长途奔波，接触大量居民，也面临着更复杂的情况。
Even when companies provide protective gear, such as masks, first-line couriers and distributors travel long distances daily to reach large numbers of people and face a more complex situation.
来自河北的快递员王峰告诉界面新闻，现在他一周可以从公司领到两个口罩，为了节省，每晚他都会用消毒液清洗口罩，反复使用。
Wang Feng, a courier from Hebei province, told Interface News that he now gets two masks a week from his company, and that every night he cleans them with disinfectant to save money.
而绍兴点我达驻丹鸟物流的配送员小陈则遇上了更糟心的经历，在社区登记信息后，他被自己的房东驱赶了。
Shaoxing point I arrived in Denmark logistics distributor Xiao Chen encountered a worse experience, after registering information in the community, he was expelled by his landlord.
“房东说，是因为我在外送快递、外卖，不安全、太敏感。
"The landlord said it was because I was too sensitive and unsafe to deliver couriers and take-out.
”小陈无奈表示，“房租合同都还没有到期，但是也没办法。
Chen helplessly said: "Rent contracts have not expired, but there is no way.
”他打算等其他同事全部返工，站点不缺骑手之后，就回老家转行，不再做骑手这一行了。
He plans to wait until his colleagues have all returned to work and the site has no shortage of riders before he moves back home and stops being a rider.
普遍运力短缺王峰所在的快递站点位于北京市朝阳区平乐园，在正常情况下，这个站点每天派送的快递单量有三千多单，满员状况下有二十多名快递员，现在由于疫情影响，存在部分运力缺口。
Wang Feng's express delivery site, located in Beijing's Chaoyang District, is normally filled with more than 3,000 express tickets and more than 20 couriers per day, and there is a partial capacity gap due to the epidemic.
王峰告诉界面新闻，春节期间这个站点共有七名快递员返乡过年，现在仍然有五人没有回京，“何时返京不好说，因为很多地方现在都封村封路。
Wang Feng told the interface that during the Spring Festival, a total of seven couriers returned home for the Lunar New Year, but there are still five people who have not returned to Beijing.
”由于存在运力缺口，再加上疫情期间人们网上购物的频次比以前更多。
"There is a capacity gap and people shop online more often than before during the epidemic.
王峰的工作量也要比平日更繁重些。
Wang Feng's workload is also heavier than usual.
现在他每天派送的快递单量达到两百多单，比平日要多出五十单。
Now he delivers more than two hundred express orders a day, fifty more than usual.
每天的工作时长要从早上六点开始持续到晚上八点以后。
The work day lasts from six in the morning to eight in the evening.
“送单压力还是比较大的。
"Billing pressure is still relatively large.
”王峰说，“我也怕被感染，但是既然做了这份工作，只能尽量注意些。
"I'm afraid of getting infected, too, but since I've done the job, I can only pay attention to it," Wang said.
”运力缺口不止存在于快递行业，各个生鲜电商平台和外卖平台同样如此。
The capacity gap is not limited to the express delivery industry, but also applies to all live telecoms platforms and takeout platforms.
在疫情爆发期间，提供蔬菜水果肉蛋等基本生活物资的生鲜电商都迎来了一波订单量的猛增。
During the outbreak of the outbreak, the supply of basic necessities such as vegetables, fruits and eggs fresh electricity businesses have experienced a surge in orders.
据每日优鲜CFO王珺称，每日优鲜平台的交易额在疫情期间同比增长了三倍多。
The daily premium platform turnover has more than tripled in the same period of the epidemic, according to Yucun CFO Wang.
美团买菜则表示，近期，北京、上海、深圳、武汉四地的销售量明显上涨，并呈现持续上涨趋势，其中北京地区的日销售量最高为节前的2-3倍。
According to US buyers, sales in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Wuhan have risen sharply recently and are on a sustained upward trend, with sales in Beijing up to 2-3 times their pre-holiday sales.
一方面是订单量的猛增，另一方面则是运力不足造成的履约困难。
On the one hand is the surge in orders, on the other hand is insufficient capacity to comply with the difficulties.
“疫情刚发生的时候是有很明显的动荡，因为很多员工回家过年了，单量又超过历史峰值。
"When the outbreak first hit, it was a clear shock, because many workers went home for the New Year and the numbers surpassed all-time highs.
”王珺说。
"Jun Wang says.
每日优鲜负责物流交付的副总裁王飞也表示，现在平台面临的最大问题是人手不足，另外在一线的员工普遍有焦虑情绪。
Wang Fei, vice president of logistics delivery at Daily Express, also said the biggest problem facing the platform today was staffing shortages and widespread anxiety among frontline staff.
以北京地区为例，界面新闻实测发现，美团买菜、京东到家全天可配送，基本能做到1小时达。
Taking Beijing area as an example, the interfacial news measurement shows that all-day distribution of American food can be done in one hour.
盒马生鲜运力紧张，经常显示配送预约已满，需要顾客到店自取。
Box horse fresh capacity is tight, often showing that the delivery booking is full, customers need to go to the store to get their own.
每日优鲜的优鲜达已经将履约时效从1小时放宽至两小时，但仍然不时出现部分地区由于订单量较大或骑手短缺，无法保证时效的情况。
The daily premium Yoshida has extended the time limit for performance from one hour to two hours, but there are still occasional situations in some areas where orders are high or riders are in short supply to guarantee a time limit.
外卖平台则面临着订单量下滑与运力短缺的双重局面。
The take-out platform faces a combination of declining orders and a shortage of capacity.
一位北京朝阳区十里河站点的外卖员告诉界面新闻，他所在的外卖站点满员情况下共有四十多人，现在则只有不到二十人，原因也是因为防疫要求，许多返乡过年的外卖员现在都无法回到工作地。
A take-out clerk at a 10-mile river station in Beijing's Chaoyang district told Interface News that his take-out site, with a full complement of more than 40, now has fewer than 20, also because many take-out workers returning home for the holidays are now unable to return to work.
但是由于北京地区外卖单量下降更为明显，所以整体来讲工作并不算忙碌。
But because Beijing's take-out orders have fallen more sharply, work as a whole has not been as hectic.
“现在每天的送单量从日均四五十单下降到二十几单。
"Now the daily delivery from the average of 40 to 50 to more than 20.
”上述外卖员说。
'said the man.
行业互助自救为应对运力短缺和供应不足等问题，多个线上平台已经与遭受疫情冲击较大的餐饮、酒店等行业展开互助合作，比如联合供应食材，招募后者的闲置员工等。
In response to capacity shortages and shortages, online platforms have teamed up with industries such as restaurants and hotels that have been hit hard by the epidemic, such as jointly supplying food supplies and recruiting idle employees.
王飞判断疫情整体还会持续一段时间。
Wang Fei judges that the epidemic will continue for some time.
他表示下一步每日优鲜还会加大与餐饮等行业的合作，以解决供应和配送问题。
The next step, he said, would be to work more closely with industries such as catering to solve supply and distribution problems.
现在，每日优鲜已经与西贝、眉州东坡等餐饮企业合作，由西贝与眉州东坡提供仓库和员工，为每日优鲜将毛菜加工成标品菜。
Now, Daily Fresh has cooperated with Xibei, Mei Zhou Dongpo and other catering enterprises, by the West Bay and Mei Zhou Dongpo to provide warehouses and staff, for daily fresh processing into standard dishes.
在华北地区，上述两家企业每天向每日优鲜提供10万件商品。
In North China, the two companies offer 100,000 items a day to premium goods.
在运力方面，每日优鲜则在积极与外卖平台展开合作。
In terms of capacity, Daily Premium is actively working with delivery platforms.
“现在很多餐饮企业开不了工，外卖平台的单量很少，这些外卖运力也可以与我们合作来环节配送的压力，相关的合作都在谈。
"A lot of restaurants can't open these days, there are very few take-out platforms, and these take-out capacities can also work with us to link up distribution pressures," he said.
”王飞说。
'said Wang.
此外，为了应对运力不足，提高履约效率、保证配送时效，每日优鲜还增添了三轮车作为配送工具，以提高单次的运载量。
In addition, in order to cope with the lack of capacity, improve performance efficiency and ensure delivery timeliness, the daily premium has added tricycles as a distribution tool to increase the capacity of a single delivery.
2月7日，饿了么推出“蓝海”共享用工平台，对10万家餐饮门店发出邀约，首批招募1万名临时骑手。
Feb. 7, hungry to launch the "Blue Sea" shared-use platform, to 100,000 restaurant offers, the first batch of 10,000 temporary jockeys.
饿了么表示，共享用工平台还将对接全国20万家商超、便利店，餐饮员工可从事外卖订单分拣、搬运等急缺岗位。
Hungry, the platform will also dock 200,000 stores, convenience stores, catering staff can be engaged in take-out order sorting, moving and other urgent vacancies.
2月8日，京东集团及其投资的达达（下属京东到家平台和达达快送平台）联合宣布将采取多种用工形式，面向全社会提供超过3.5万人的就业岗位。
On February 8, Jingdong Group and its invested Dada, a subsidiary of the Beijing-East China Platform and Dada Express, jointly announced plans to employ more than 35,000 people across the society.
其中，京东物流将面向全国开放包括仓储员、分拣员、快递员、驾驶员等在内的超两万个一线岗位。
Among them, Jingdong logistics will open to the whole country, including warehouse workers, sorters, couriers, drivers and other more than 20,000 frontline posts.
达达集团旗下达达快送平台将面向全国超过2400个县区市招募骑士，首批拟招募1万个骑士；达达集团旗下京东到家平台将协助零售合作伙伴面向全国超过30个城市招募拣货员、打包员等门店岗位，开放岗位超过五千个。
The Dada Group's Dada Express platform will recruit knights from more than 2,400 counties and cities across the country, with the first 10,000 knights to be recruited. The Dada Group's Kindong platform will help retail partners recruit pick-up and packer posts in more than 30 cities across the country, opening more than 5,000 jobs.
京东方面表示，京东物流将会为新加入的员工提供完善的业务操作、防护规范等岗前培训，按照国家防控疫情要求提供口罩、体温计、消毒液等防疫应急物资，做好体温检测、消毒等防控措施。
Jingdong said that Jingdong logistics will provide new employees with perfect business operations, protection norms and other pre-job training, according to the national epidemic prevention and control requirements to provide masks, thermometers, disinfectant and other epidemic prevention materials, do a good job of temperature testing, disinfection and other preventive and control measures.
此外，各家外卖平台或者电商平台都表示已经为骑手或者快递员配备了口罩、消毒液等防疫物资，要求一线员工全程配备口罩，并对健康状况进行抽检。
In addition, various delivery platforms or e-commerce platforms say they have equipped riders or couriers with face masks, disinfectant and other anti-epidemic materials, requiring front-line staff to wear face masks throughout the process and have their health checked.
美团、京东、每日优鲜等平台还为一线员工购买了防疫保险，让出外勤的一线员工们能够安心工作。
The American Mission, Jingdong, Daily Fresh and other platforms for front-line staff to buy immunization insurance, so that the field staff can work peace of mind.
但值得注意的是，一些以众包形式参与平台派单的个人劳动者并没有得到平台的防疫物资。
It is worth noting, however, that some individual workers who participate in the Platform's distribution through crowdsourcing do not receive epidemic prevention materials from the Platform.
一位美团众包外卖员告诉界面新闻，他的口罩是自费购置的，缺乏消毒水等物品，也未被平台要求上报体温数据和健康状况。
A crowd-sourced American takeaway told Interface News that his mask was purchased at his own expense, lacked items such as disinfectant and was not required by the platform to report temperature data and health status.
严格来说，众包员工并不是平台的正式员工，但其为消费者提供的是同样的服务，且绝对数量已经远远超过专送员工。
Strictly speaking, crowdsourcing employees are not regular employees of the platform, but they provide the same services to consumers, and in absolute numbers far outnumber dedicated staff.
这部分人群健康保障的缺失或是当前外卖平台防疫工作的漏洞。
This part of the population health security or the current take-out platform immunization work loopholes.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
运力短缺、口罩不足，快递小哥的安全谁来守护？。
Shortage of capacity, insufficient masks, express brother's safety who will guard?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "运力短缺、口罩不足，快递小哥的安全谁来守护？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "全国性的人员流动被按下暂停键，依赖线下运力的外卖、快递等行业也因此受到影响。
var msg _ desc = & quot; nationwide movement was suspended, affecting industries such as take-out and express delivery, which rely on offline capacity.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
