武汉发现一特殊案例：一新冠肺炎患者符合出院标准，但肺部仍有感染迹象。
Wuhan found a special case: patients with new crown pneumonia meet the discharge criteria, but the lungs still show signs of infection.
金淼。
Miao Jin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
记者：金淼  编辑：许悦“ 期待核酸检测之外，有更多类型试剂一同提高新冠的检出率。
Journalist: Xu Miao: "Looking forward to nucleic acid testing, there are more types of reagents together to improve the detection rate of the new crown.
”2月7日，武汉协和医院西院发现一特殊病例：该患者治疗后符合两次核酸检测为阴性的出院标准，但是患者肺部影像显示仍有病毒感染迹象。
On February 7, a special case was found in the west courtyard of Wuhan Concorde Hospital. The patient met two negative nucleic acid test discharge criteria after treatment, but lung imaging showed signs of infection.
北京世纪坛医院呼吸内科主任医师丁新民接受《我们》视频采访时表示，患者肺部影像显示右侧病变还是毛玻璃渗出：“对这个病例我们也不太放心，虽然达到要求可以出院，但我们没让病人出院。
"The patient's lung image showed a lesion on the right or a plexiglass seepage," Ding Xinmin, chief physician of respiratory department at Beijing Shijitan Hospital, told Us in a video interview.
”丁新民在采访中表示，核酸检测取样，需要进入肺深部取样检测，但是目前武汉临床医生资源紧张，多科室医生都可能参与取样工作，但是并非所有医生都掌握气管镜取样技术，做到深部检查是不现实的。
In an interview, Ding said DNA samples needed to be taken into deep lung sampling, but Wuhan clinicians are under pressure and doctors from many departments may be involved, but not all doctors have mastered tracheoscopy, making deep examinations impractical.
由此丁新民建议，患者出院后仍要做好隔离工作，防护工作不能松懈。
Ding Xinmin suggested that the patient should still do a good job of isolation after discharge from hospital, and the protection work should not be lax.
此前关于核酸检测假阴性问题的讨论，多聚焦在很多患者虽然肺部影像学显示已有病毒感染迹象，但由于核酸检测为阴性，未被计入确诊病例中。
Previous discussions on false-negative nucleic acid testing have focused on the fact that many patients are not included in the confirmed cases because of negative nucleic acid tests, although lung imaging shows signs of infection.
2月7日，中日友好医院确诊一例“三连阴”新冠肺炎患者，该患者入院前3此咽拭子新冠病毒核酸检测均为阴性，甲流核酸检测阳性。
Feb. 7, the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital confirmed a case of "three Lianyin" new crown pneumonia, the patient was admitted to the hospital three times before the Nucleic Acid Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) test negative.
由于患者肺炎症状较重，中日友好以“重症甲流”收治。
Due to severe pneumonia symptoms, the Sino-Japanese friendship to "severe swine flu" admission.
随后治疗中，医院对患者进行肺泡灌洗并取标本，核酸检测结果为新型冠状病毒阳性，确诊新冠肺炎。
Afterwards, the hospital to the patient alveolar lavage and take samples, nucleic acid test results for the new coronavirus positive, confirmed the new crown pneumonia.
中国医学科学院院长王辰院士在2月5日接受央视采访时针对核酸检测表示“对于真是这个病的病人，也不过只有30%-50%的阳性率。
In an interview with CCTV on Feb. 5, academician Wang Chen, dean of the Chinese Academy of Medicine, said: "For patients with the disease, there is only a 30-50 percent positive rate
通过（采集疑似病患）咽拭子的办法，还是有很多假阴性的。
By swabbing the pharynx, there are still a lot of false negatives.
核酸没有发现，但是实际上是的。
Nucleic acid was not found, but it did.
”病毒检测行业人士对界面新闻表示，如果新冠核酸检测对于确诊患者阳性率为30%-50%，是属于核酸检测中的不正常情况。
People in the virus detection industry told Interface News that the Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) test is an anomaly in the detection of nucleic acids if it is 30% -50% positive for a confirmed patient, the industry told Interface News.
“核酸检测对实验室条件、操作规范、人员技能和试剂性能都有要求，现在还附加一个额外的因素，对新型病毒的研究不足，导致采样时间和部位不够明确。
"Nucleic acid testing is required for laboratory conditions, operational specifications, human skills and reagent performance, and now an additional factor is added. Research on new viruses is inadequate, leading to a lack of clarity on the timing and location of samples.
目前来看(准确率低)的主要原因可能是采样问题和试剂性能”上述行业人士表示。
The main reason (low accuracy) at the moment may be sampling problems and reagent performance, "said people in the industry.
由于不同试剂盒企业的原材料供应商不同，不同企业间产品也存在试剂性能不同的问题。
Due to the different raw material suppliers of different kit enterprises, different products between enterprises also have different reagent performance problems.
（试剂性能的为灵敏性和特异性，即真阳性率、真阴性率。
(Reagent performance for sensitivity and specificity, that is, positive, true negative rate.
）2月4日，国家医疗专家组成员、北京地坛医院感染性疾病诊疗与研究中心首席专家李兴旺在国家卫健委发布会上表示：“从呼吸道标本来讲，肺泡灌洗液敏感性要高于痰的结果，痰的结果又高于咽部的。
"For respiratory specimens, alveolar lavage is more sensitive than sputum and the sputum is higher than phlegm," Li Shang, a member of the National Medical Experts Group and chief expert at the Center for Diagnosis and Research of Infectious Diseases at Ditan Hospital in Beijing, told a news conference.
”但是通常而言，肺泡灌洗液需要呼吸科医生操作，有技术难度，并且被感染风险大、病人接受度低。
But alveolar lotion usually requires a ventilator to operate, is technically difficult, and has a high risk of infection and low patient acceptance.
上述病毒检测行业内人士表示，随着行业内对于假阴性问题的关注、及在实践中提升的采样规范，短期内是能够提升核酸检测的准确率。
The virus detection industry said that with the industry's concern about false negative issues, and the practice of improved sampling norms, can improve the accuracy of nucleic acid detection in the short term.
此前中国疾控中心主任、中科院院士高福接受《中国科学报》采访时表示，新型冠状病毒的体外诊断试剂可以有核酸、抗原和抗体诊断试剂等多种类型，但目前只有核酸试剂应用于新型冠状病毒感染病例的诊断中。
The new coronavirus can be diagnosed in vitro with nucleic acid, antigen and antibody diagnostic reagent, but only nucleic acid reagent has been used in the diagnosis of new coronavirus infection, Gao Fu, director of the CDC and academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, told the China Science newspaper.
IgM（免疫球蛋白M）抗体试剂有多家研究机构和企业已经接近临床试验完成阶段，未来几种类型试剂结合会进一步提高新冠肺炎的检出率。
IgM (immunoglobulin M) antibody reagent has a number of research institutions and enterprises are nearing the stage of clinical trial completion, several types of reagent combination in the future will further improve the detection rate of new crown pneumonia.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉发现一特殊案例：一新冠肺炎患者符合出院标准，但肺部仍有感染迹象。
Wuhan found a special case: patients with new crown pneumonia meet the discharge criteria, but the lungs still show signs of infection.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉发现一特殊案例：一新冠肺炎患者符合出院标准，但肺部仍有感染迹象";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan has found a particular case where a patient with new crown pneumonia met the criteria for discharge from the hospital, but whose lungs still showed signs of infection;;
var msg_desc = "期待核酸检测之外，有更多类型试剂一同提高新冠的检出率。
var msg _ desc = & quot; expects more types of reagents to work together to improve new crown detection rates than did RNA testing.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
