开课不停、招生爆满，在线教育寒冬中逆袭？。
Non-stop classes, full enrollment, online education in the cold winter attack?
戴梦馨。
Wear a carnation.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：戴梦馨  编辑：李怡彭“ 疫情下的火爆为在线教育带来机遇，但现在还远不是谈红利的时候。
Photo: China Visual Correspondent: Dai Mengxin Editor: Li Eipen "The explosion of the epidemic has brought opportunities for online education, but it's far from the time to talk about dividends.
”无法上课，又没有培训班，家住农村的希希（化名）跑到屋顶，在冬日的寒风中借用隔壁的wifi信号，用手机打开了一节网课。
Without classes or classes, Chichi (not his real name), who lives in the countryside, runs to the roof, borrows the Wifi signal from the next door in the wintry wind and opens an online lesson on his cell phone.
开学延期、课外辅导班暂停，2020农历鼠年春节前后爆发的新冠病毒理解；肺炎疫情，将在线教育推上了“C位”。
School postponed, after-school remedial classes suspended, the 2020 Lunar New Year of the mouse around the Spring Festival outbreak of the new crown virus understanding; pneumonia, online education will be pushed into a "C" position.
巨大的学习需求占满了各平台的视频带宽余量，也让与之相关的股票在开市后持续飘红。
Huge learning needs fill the platform's video bandwidth allowance, and let its related stocks continue to flutter after the opening of the market.
在线教育行业的兴起，便源于“非典”时期的远程教学需求。
The rise of online education industry stems from the demand of distance education during the SARS period.
经历十余年发展，新一代学生已习惯了直播上课，将其视为辅助学习的选择之一。
After more than a decade of development, a new generation of students has become accustomed to live classes as one of the options for assisted learning.
但盈利难的问题，也让在线教育在2019年受到资本市场冷遇。
But the difficulty of making money also left online education cold in the capital markets in 2019.
在大多行业受到疫情影响开工延迟的情况下，在线教育与游戏、直播等少数行业一起被看作是迎来发展机遇的领域。
Online education, along with a few industries such as games and live broadcasting, is seen as an area of opportunity at a time when most industries have been delayed by the epidemic.
但对在线教育公司来说，现在还远不是谈“红利”的时候。
But for online education companies, the time is far from "dividend."
“网易捐了寒假作业”1月23日，距离春节放假只有一天，在网易有道（NYSE:DAO）副总裁刘韧磊准备回家过年，突然看到了武汉宣布封城的消息。
"Netease donated winter homework" January 23, just one day away from the Spring Festival holiday, at the NYSE: DAO vice-president Liu Philei prepared to go home for the New Year, suddenly saw the announcement of the closure of Wuhan.
“我们立刻意识到情况非常严重，希望提供一些在线课程，让孩子不要再出门上培训班了。
"We immediately realized that the situation was very serious and wanted to offer some online courses so the kids wouldn't have to go out to training again.
”刘韧磊告诉界面教育，1月23日，主营在线直播课的网易有道召集部门负责人讨论，决定为武汉学生提供免费在线课，并于次日对外公布了这个消息。
Liu told Interface Education that on January 23, Netease, the main online broadcast class, held discussions with department heads and decided to offer Wuhan students free online classes, which was announced the next day.
赠课与捐款、捐物资相比，显得尤其特殊，一开始并不被大众领情。
Compared with donation and donation, gift giving is very special. It is not appreciated by the public at first.
刘韧磊告诉界面教育，网上一度出现了“网易捐了寒假作业”的调侃，赠课后费了不少功夫向大众解释免费直播课是什么。
Liu diem told the interface education, the Internet once appeared "Netease donated winter vacation operations" ridicule, free after-school cost a lot of effort to explain to the public what free live classes are.
整个在线教育行业已经迅速反应过来，这是一个必须登场的时刻。
The entire online education industry has reacted quickly, and this is a moment that must come.
由于疫情防控要求严管人员流动、线下聚集，线下培训已被各地叫停。
Because epidemic prevention and control requires strict control of the movement of personnel, online aggregation, off-line training has been stopped everywhere.
疫情防控形势不断升级后，各地陆续宣布延期开学，待在家中的学生需要一个继续学习的方式。
As the epidemic escalates, schools are being postponed, and students who stay at home need a way to continue learning.
多家在线教育公司立刻从除夕、大年初一开始放弃假期，紧急开会并迅速上马免费直播课。
A number of online education companies immediately from New Year's Eve, the beginning of the new year gave up holidays, emergency meetings and quickly on free live classes.
作业帮相关人士告诉界面教育，作业帮于1月24日上午11点正式立项，要求各部门紧急加班，共计220名教学教研老师、140位产研工程师以及100多名支持人员到位，在1月25日中午上线报名入口。
At 11: 00 a.m. on January 24, homework helpers formally set up an emergency overtime program, requiring 220 teaching and research teachers, 140 research engineers and more than 100 support staff to enter the site at noon on January 25.
新东方（NYSE:EDU）集团主营线下培训，赠送免费直播课交由新东方在线（01797.HK）运营。
New Oriental (NYSE: EDU) Group's main offline training, giving free live courses to New Oriental Online (01797.HK) operation.
“大年初一早上吃完饺子，我就接到开会通知，要针对这次疫情做点什么。
"After eating dumplings on the morning of New Year's Day, I was informed of the meeting to do something about the outbreak.
”新东方在线营销负责人吴明珠告诉界面教育，新东方创始人俞敏洪在下发的全员信中，要求管理团队随时待命，不能耽误学生学习。
Wu Mingzhu, director of online marketing at New Oriental, told Interface Education that the letter from Yu Minhong, founder of New Oriental, asked the management team to be on standby so students could not be delayed.
1月25日召开深夜会确定方案后，新东方集团、新东方在线在26日宣布向湖北省医护人员子女免费赠课，并在27日将赠课范围扩展至全国，在2月1日宣布推出周中同步课。
After the program was confirmed at a late-night meeting on January 25, New Oriental Group, New Oriental Online announced on the 26th, Hubei medical staff children free classes, and on the 27th, the scope of the grant extended to the whole country, February 1 announced the introduction of mid-week synchronous classes.
与新东方同日宣布赠课的，是其最大的竞争对手好未来（NYSE:TAL）。
On the same day New Oriental announced the giveaways as its biggest competitor, NYSE: TAL.
好未来旗下学而思网校宣布，从2月1日起全天直播授课，成为开课最早的在线教育公司。
The school announced that it would be the first online educational company to offer classes live all day from February 1.
一名接近学而思网校的人士告诉界面教育，好未来提前要求老师做好网速测试，而好未来创始人张邦鑫、首席运营官刘亚超在1月26日出现在公司，慰问已在调试设备、准备工作的员工。
A person close to the school told Interface Education that teachers should be required to do a good Internet speed test ahead of time, while good future founder Zhang Bang Xin and Chief Operating Officer Liu Yachao showed up at the company on January 26 to pay tribute to the employees who were already adjusting their equipment and making preparations.
28日，在家无法直播的老师全部返回北京，准备返工上课。
On the 28th, all the teachers who were unable to live at home returned to Beijing to return to work.
喜忧参半的“火爆”越来越多的家长们发现了免费直播课，在线教育公司迎来了前所未有的报名数量。
More and more parents are finding free live lessons, and online education companies are seeing record numbers of applications.
“咨询量暴增”，吴明珠告诉界面教育，”我们一度无法承载那么大的咨询量”，家长、学生们打爆了新东方在线的咨询电话，公司召集了客服、销售、辅导老师三个团队负责对接。
"Advisory surges," Wu told Interface Education, "we were once unable to take on that amount of consultation." Parents and students blew up New Oriental Online, and the company assembled three teams of customer service, sales, and tutor to connect.
网易有道市场部副总裁刘韧磊告诉界面教育，网易有道在湖北地区接到了8万份申请、发出20万份课程，全国报名人数已达百万量级。
Liu Dai, vice-president of Netease's marketing department, told Interface Education that Netease had received 80,000 applications and sent 200,000 courses in Hubei province, and the national enrollment had reached one million orders of magnitude.
“最典型的是初三、高三学生。
"The most typical is the third year of junior high school students.
” 刘韧磊告诉界面教育，家长担心孩子中高考复习不足，非常焦虑。
Liu told Interface Education that parents were worried that their children were not getting enough revision for the college entrance exam and were worried.
新东方在线教研负责人殷涛告诉界面教育：“家长普遍焦虑，尤其是看到孩子在家无所事事、玩，就特别希望能给孩子找点事情做。
"There is widespread anxiety among parents, especially when they see their children doing nothing at home," Yin Tao, director of online education at New Oriental Online, told Interface Education.
”面对大量涌入的学生，在线教育公司喜忧参半。
Online education companies are mixed in the face of a flood of students.
教育行业的运转规律是在1-2月寒假班开课，并启动春季班招生。
The education sector operates on a regular basis, starting in January-February in winter and spring classes.
开设免费直播课后，原定的寒假工作被全盘打乱，如何同时服务现有的付费学生与大量涌入的免费课学生，这对在线教育公司师资、技术、产品、运营等各项能力是较大的考验。
After the free live broadcast, the original winter vacation job was completely disrupted. How to serve both existing paying students and the influx of free students was a big test of the online education company's faculty, skills, products, operations, etc.
学而思网校、猿辅导、作业帮，选择在付费课程之外单独开辟免费直播课，与付费课程并行。
Learn to think of online schools, ape counseling, homework help, choose to set up separate free live courses in addition to paid courses, parallel to paid courses.
但两类课程同时上线，对课程研发、师资调配、技术支持等环节提出了极高的要求。
But two kinds of courses go on-line at the same time, the curriculum development, teacher deployment, technical support and other links put forward very high requirements.
作业帮向界面教育表示，免费直播课的内容与春季付费班有一定区分，授课老师在老家克服不利条件上课，或者临时返回工作岗位，在高铁上磨课、备课。
Hands-on tutors told Interface Education that there was a difference between the content of free live lessons and those paid in the spring, with the instructor overcoming adverse conditions at home or returning temporarily to work to sharpen lessons and prepare classes on high-speed rail.
为了解决师资问题，学而思网校选择调集超过1000名主讲老师团队，并启用储备师资。
In order to solve the problem of teachers, Xueshi net school chose to mobilize more than 1000 teachers team, and use the reserve teachers.
但与常规开设的收费课相比，学而思网校单独开辟的免费直播课不再分层教学，也不再提供辅导老师的答疑、批改作业等辅导服务。
Compared with the regular fee-paying classes, the free direct broadcast classes set up separately by Xingsi School no longer offer stratified teaching and tutoring services such as problem-solving and homework correction by tutors.
缺少辅导老师配合后，在线网课的教学效果必然相对打折。
Without the cooperation of tutors, the teaching effect of online online courses is bound to be relatively discounted.
为了保证教学效果，新东方在线的选择是，将原本收费的课程全部改为免费赠送。
In order to guarantee the teaching effect, the choice of New Oriental Online is to charge fees for the course to be completely free of charge.
“我们考虑过到底要不要让老师做新课，但春节临时做课不可能是平时的质量。
"We considered whether or not to let the teacher do the new lesson, but the Spring Festival impromptu class could not be the usual quality.
” 新东方在线教研负责人殷涛向界面教育解释，教育行业一般提前备课、磨课，例如新东方要求“不磨课不上课”，正式上课前必须磨课5遍以上，因此老师必须提前两个季度启动备课。
Yin Tao, director of online teaching and research at New Oriental University, explained to the interface that the education industry generally prepares classes and classes ahead of time. For example, New Oriental requires that classes not be polished and lessons must be honed more than five times before formal classes begin.
最终新东方在线决定在春季班之前开设录播课、周中课，由家长督促辅导，在春季赠送常规的正价网课。
Finally, New Oriental Online decided to offer video classes and mid-week classes before the spring classes, with parents urging tutoring and regular free online classes in the spring.
真火还是虚火？截至2月10日，已有十余个在线教育公司的免费直播课正式开课，涌入上课的学生数量再次突破了在线教育公司的预估。
As of Feb. 10, more than a dozen online education companies had opened free live programs, and the influx of students had again exceeded online education companies' estimates.
开课首日，猿辅导的系统出现崩溃。
On the first day of classes, ape counseling systems collapsed.
猿辅导在当日表示，首日上课人数超过500万，因在线用户量巨大导致上课受影响。
The number of apes attending classes on the first day exceeded five million and was affected by the large number of online users, the service said on the same day.
作业帮宣布，2月5日全国报名人数已经突破1000万。
The help announced that February 5, the number of applications nationwide has exceeded 10 million.
学而思网校宣布，上课一周后，已招纳来自331个地级市的学生。
The school announced that after a week of classes, it had recruited students from 331 prefectural cities.
在线教育的火爆成为当下鲜见的行业情境。
The explosion of online education has become a rare industry situation.
赠送免费直播课也成为在线教育公司大力投入、竞争关注度的新阵地。
Free live broadcast classes have also become a new front for online education companies to focus on and compete for attention.
除了在自家官网、APP开设上课通道，多家在线教育公司宣布与爱奇艺、优酷、B站、快手、今日头条等平台合作。
In addition to their own official website, APP classes channel, a number of online education companies announced with Aichi, Youku, B station, fast-forward, today's headlines, and other platforms.
学而思网校、猿辅导、作业帮等公司宣布，课程已纳入央视频、学习强国、人民网等官方平台。
Companies such as Xueshi Cyber School, Apes Mentoring and Homework have announced that the curriculum has been integrated into official platforms such as Central Video, Learning Power and People's Web.
突然的火爆也暴露了在线教育尚待解决的问题。
The sudden explosion has also exposed the unresolved problem of online education.
网络状况不良、内容枯燥没有互动性等问题遭到了学生的集中吐槽，部分家长也通过朋友圈等社交平台表达了对网课带来视力下降的担忧。
Some parents expressed concern about the decline in vision caused by online classes through social platforms such as friends' circles.
教育部于2月4日发布通知，提醒各级教育行政部门、中小学和校外培训机构，在各地原计划的正式开学日之前，不要提前开始新学期课程网上教学。
On 4 February, the Ministry of Education issued a circular reminding education administrations at all levels, primary and secondary schools and out-of-school training institutions not to start online teaching of new semester courses in advance of the planned official opening days in their localities.
无论是公益支持还是市场扩展，免费直播课都已是在线教育公司选择坚持做下去的项目，多家公司宣布“疫情不停，上课不停”，并开始着手改善免费课的体验。
Both pro bono and market expansion, free live programs have been chosen by online education companies to stay the course, with companies declaring "the epidemic is ongoing, classes are continuing" and starting to improve the experience of free classes.
学而思网校将免费课程增加授课教材的地域版本，并在小学阶段增设外教课程。
The school will offer free-of-charge courses to increase the geographical version of teaching materials and introduce foreign language courses at the primary level.
作业帮向界面教育表示，为了响应教育部不超纲、不超前的在线教学要求，课程内容增设了美术、科学等素养课程。
In order to meet the needs of the Ministry of Education, we have added art and science literacy courses to the curriculum.
网易有道要求名师团队必须上免费直播课，从而加强课程内容质量。
Netease has requested that the team of famous teachers must attend the free live broadcast classes, thus strengthening the quality of the curriculum.
在投资者眼中，在线教育成为当下为数不多的利好行业。
In the eyes of investors, online education has become one of the few good industries.
但对于在线教育公司而言，免费直播课尽管报名火爆，但并没有带来更多收入，甚至导致公司收入锐减。
But for online education companies, free live broadcasts, despite the popularity of the program, have failed to generate more revenue and have even led to a sharp drop in revenues.
吴明珠告诉界面教育，“公司决定将收费课程作为免费课程赠送，必须向已收费学生退还学费”。
Wu told Interface Education: "The company decided to give the course free of charge and had to refund the tuition to the students who had already paid it."
这意味着除了已付出的高昂招生成本无法收回，也将导致春季近4个月的时间中小学部分业务没有收入。
That means that, in addition to the high cost of enrollment that has already been paid, it will leave some primary and secondary schools without revenue for nearly four months in the spring.
即使是仍在做收费课在线教育公司，此时也避免做出收费举动。
Even if you're still doing a fee-paying online education company, avoid charging at this point.
一名要求匿名的辅导老师向界面教育解释：“这个时候肯定不能做转化、让家长买付费班，这容易让家长的反感。
One tutor, who asked to remain anonymous, explained to the user interface: "This is definitely not the time to make the transition and let parents buy a paid class, which tends to drive parents crazy.
”免费赠课的公益项目，对于在线教育公司而言必然牺牲短期利益，从而获得更多家长、学生的良好印象。
For online education companies, free tuition is a public good at the expense of short-term gains, creating a good impression of parents and students.
长期效果还无法预知，各地中小学校已在着手准备在线教学方案，正式复课时间和线下培训，在疫情过后的恢复情况也都是影响在线教育未来发展的变量。
The long-term effects are uncertain, schools across the country are already preparing online learning programmes, formally resuming classes and offline training, and post-epidemic recovery is also a variable influencing the future of online education.
在线教育行业仍会回到商业轨道。
Online education will still be back on track.
有多少学生会继续留在线上上课，是在线教育能否在2020年得到“红利”的判断标准。
How many students will stay online is a measure of whether online education will receive a "dividend" in 2020.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
开课不停、招生爆满，在线教育寒冬中逆袭？。
Non-stop classes, full enrollment, online education in the cold winter attack?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "开课不停、招生爆满，在线教育寒冬中逆袭？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情下的火爆为在线教育带来机遇，但现在还远不是谈红利的时候。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; But this is far from a dividend.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
