医师7.77万人、护士9.71万人，援鄂不影响保卫上海。
With 77,700 doctors and 97,100 nurses, Hubei does not affect the protection of Shanghai.
杨蓉。
Yang Rong.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
摄影：杨舒鸿吉作者：杨蓉“ 上海市卫健委新闻发言人郑锦表示，上海有医疗机构3853家，医师7.77万人，护士9.71万人，总体来说可以满足上海疫情防控和医疗服务的需求。
There are 3,853 medical institutions in Shanghai with 77,700 doctors and 97,100 nurses, according to Zhang Jin, spokesman for the Shanghai Fitness and Health Commission.
”2月11日下午，上海市卫健委新闻发言人郑锦透露，截至2月10日，北京、广东、浙江等29个省市共一万七千多名医疗人员前往湖北支援。
On the afternoon of February 11, more than 17,000 medical personnel from 29 provinces and municipalities, including Beijing, Guangdong and Zhejiang, had gone to Hubei to provide support, according to a spokesman for the Shanghai Health Commission.
目前，上海有937名医务人员在武汉参与防控工作，其中，医师198名，护士644名。
At present, 937 medical personnel are involved in the prevention and control work in Wuhan, among them 198 physicians and 644 nurses.
这令部分上海市民担心，上海本地的疫情防控以及日常的诊疗是否会因此产生影响？对此，郑锦认为，上海有医疗机构3853家，医师7.77万人，护士9.71万人，总体来说可以满足上海疫情防控和医疗服务的需求。
In response to concerns among some Shanghai residents that the local epidemic and routine medical treatment would have an impact, Zheng said the city has 3,853 medical institutions, 77,700 doctors and 97,100 nurses, all of which could meet the needs of prevention, control and medical services in the city.
至于有市民质疑，近几日新增病例减少，是否是上海“统计口径”的改变？郑锦对此严正辟谣：上海始终按照国家要求，对在本市范围内发现的所有新型冠状病毒肺炎病例进行统计和定期发布，外地来沪人员在本市被确诊为新冠肺炎，全部纳入本市统计范围进行发布。
In response to questions from citizens about whether the decline in new cases in recent days is a change in Shanghai's "statistical caliber," Zheng Jin denied that Shanghai has always complied with the state's request to conduct statistics and issue regular reports on all new coronavirus pneumonia cases found within the city.
“我们的统计口径一直没有变过。
"Our statistical caliber has not changed.
”郑锦说，“我们将不断提高服务的质量和水平，也感谢大家的关心。
"We will continue to improve the quality and standard of our services and thank you for your concern," Mr Cheng said.
”随着2月10日上海超半数企业复工，郑锦也提醒各企业单位科学、规范使用中央空调系统，防范疫情借此传播。
With more than half of the enterprises in Shanghai back to work on February 10, Zheng Jin also reminded enterprises to use the central air-conditioning system scientifically and normatively to prevent the spread of the disease.
郑锦表示，企业使用符合下列条件之一的中央空调系统方可继续运行：一是采用全新风（循环风全部为室外新风）方式运行的，二是风机盘管加新风的空调系统，能确保各房间独立通风的。
Mr Cheng said that companies could continue to operate with a central air-conditioning system that met one of the following conditions: a fully fresh air system (with all the circulation air fresh outside) and an air-conditioning system with fresh air in the fan coil to ensure independent ventilation in the rooms.
她提醒，即使企业单位配备了符合以上条件的中央空调系统，也必须严格做到符合标准的消毒清洗和通风。
She cautioned that even if an enterprise is equipped with a central air-conditioning system that meets the above conditions, it must strictly follow standard disinfection, cleaning and ventilation.
首先，企业单位应每周对运行的集中空调通风系统的开放式冷却塔、过滤网、过滤器、净化器、风口、空气处理机组、表冷器、加热（湿）器、冷凝水盘等设备或部件进行清洗、消毒或者更换。
First, business units should clean, disinfect or replace, on a weekly basis, equipment or components such as open cooling towers, filters, filters, purifiers, air vents, air treatment units, watch chillers, heating (wet) units, condensate disks, etc.
其次，在每天生产或工作结束后，也应进行空气和环境清洁消毒。
Secondly, clean air and environment should also be carried out after daily production or work.
最后，企业单位须告知在集中空调通风系统楼宇或场所活动的人员，佩戴口罩，勤洗手，做好个人防护，尽量多开窗通风。
Finally, business units are required to inform persons operating in buildings or premises of the centralized air-conditioning ventilation system to wear masks, wash their hands frequently, take personal precautions and open as many windows as possible.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
医师7.77万人、护士9.71万人，援鄂不影响保卫上海。
With 77,700 doctors and 97,100 nurses, Hubei does not affect the protection of Shanghai.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "医师7.77万人、护士9.71万人，援鄂不影响保卫上海";。
var msg _ title = & quot; 77,700 doctors, 97,100 nurses, and E E did not affect RTS & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "上海市卫健委新闻发言人郑锦表示，上海有医疗机构3853家，医师7.77万人，护士9.71万人，总体来说可以满足上海疫情防控和医疗服务的需求。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Shanghai has 3,853 medical facilities, with 77,700 doctors and 97,100 nurses, according to Zhengjin, a spokesman for the Shanghai Fitness and Health Committee.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
