复工第一天，北京写字楼的防疫大考。
The first day of resumption of work, Beijing office immunization exam.
孙梅欣。
Sun Meixin.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
大望路的金地广场和写字楼加强管控。
Greater control of King's Square and office buildings on Tai Wang Road.
记者：孙梅欣“ 物资紧缺、人手不够，是写字楼防疫面临的难题。
Reporter: Sun Meixin "The material shortage, the manpower is insufficient, is the office epidemic prevention facing the difficult problem.
”虽然几天前公司人事部已经多次发邮件鼓励员工复工后在家上班，但正式复工的第一天，鲁媛还是选择去公司拿一些资料：“也看看公司的管控情况。
Although the company's personnel department had emailed several times a few days ago to encourage workers to return to work at home, Luyuan chose to go to the company on the first day of work to get some information: "Also look at the company's controls.
”戴上口罩、护目镜和手套，全副武装的鲁媛还是决定自驾去公司。
Wearing masks, goggles and gloves, Luyuan, heavily armed, decided to drive to the company.
不同于往常车位难求的公司停车场，复工第一天显得空空荡荡。
Unlike the company car park, which is often hard to find, the first day of work seems empty.
测体温、填登记表、查口罩，鲁媛进公司的流程还算顺利：“公司电梯没出现要牙签按楼层的情况，但是配上了面巾纸。
Liu entered the company's process for measuring his temperature, filling in a registration form, and checking his mask. This worked perfectly: "There was no floor-to-floor use of toothpicks in the corporate elevator, but it was paired with tissue paper.
”除了人少和每个人都蒙着口罩，鲁媛觉得没有太大差别。
Luyuan didn't see much difference except in the small number of people and the fact that everyone was wearing masks.
尽管如此，她也不敢在办公室久留，处理完工作后便迅速离开。
Nevertheless, she did not dare to stay in the office long enough to leave quickly after finishing her work.
除了担心中央空调这一可能的传播渠道，鲁媛说，按照规定，在公司最长停留时间不得超过4个小时。
In addition to concerns about central air conditioning, a possible transmission channel, Luyuan said the company's maximum stay by rule must not exceed four hours.
“和春节假期相比，复工第一天，管辖的物业楼内人员数量明显增加。
"Compared with the Spring Festival holiday, the number of people in the buildings under the jurisdiction increased significantly on the first day of work.
”世邦魏理仕（CBRE)华北区不动产管理部主管周业辉表示，这是根据楼宇物业人员针对进入人员的测温量做出的统计：“但和往年春节复工后的人数相比，现在回办公楼的人员比例只有正常时期的20%-25%。
According to Zhou Yihui, head of property management at CBRE's North China Real Estate Management, the figures are based on the number of people entering the building who measured temperature: "But compared with the number of people returning to work after the Spring Festival in previous years, the proportion of people returning to office buildings is only 20% to 25% of normal times.
大部分企业还是选择这一周先在家办公。
Most companies are still choosing to work from home this week.
”北京核心区超甲级写字楼的企业复工比例相对较低。
The proportion of businesses returning to work at super-Grade A offices in Beijing's core area is relatively low.
“以我们在金融街管理的项目为例，复工率大约30%左右。
"In the case of the projects we manage in the financial district, the return rate is about 30 per cent.
”周业辉观察到，反而在非核心区，例如酒仙桥、北四环等区域的写字楼里，中小型企业的复工数量更多一些。
Zhou observed that the number of small and medium-sized enterprises returning to work is higher in non-core areas such as Jiuxianqiao and Beisihuan, among others.
位于北京大望路的金地中心，其物业负责人刘晓薇表示，复工首日，进出写字楼的人员数量比早前摸底的情况要少很多：“摸底时有50家企业表示想复工，预计1000人进出。
Liu Xiaomei, head of property at Beijing's Jindi Centre on Dawang Road, said the number of people entering and leaving offices on the first day of work was much lower than in earlier surveys: "At the time of the mapping, 50 companies expressed their intention to resume work, with 1,000 expected to enter or leave.
但第一天实际上进入大楼的人员只有400人，不到总员工数量的10%，复工企业也只有35家，只占总企业数量的40%。
On the first day, however, only 400 people actually entered the building, less than 10 per cent of the total number of employees, and only 35 resumed businesses, accounting for only 40 per cent of the total number of enterprises.
”为了尽可能的减少人员聚集，复工前金地中心就动员入驻企业错峰上下班。
In order to minimise the number of people gathered, the Jindi Center mobilizes resident companies to work at staggered peaks.
“在写字楼和商场的进出口处都设有测温点，而且每个人都要保持1米以上的距离。
"There are temperature measuring points at the entrances and exits of offices and shopping malls, and everyone has to keep a distance of more than one meter.
”刘晓薇表示，对于电梯的乘坐人数也有着严格限制，每个轿厢最多只能乘坐6人：“但实际操作来看，大部分进楼的人员也很有防范意识，电梯站了2、3个人就选择等下一趟。
Ms Liu said there were also strict limits on the number of passengers in elevators, with a maximum of six: "But in practice, most people entering the building are also very defensive, with two or three people waiting for the next one.
”由于地处地铁换乘和商业核心区，为了避免出现管控盲点，金地广场联合北京地铁部门，关闭了商场连接地铁的进出口，整个写字楼和商业部分只保留了3个进出口，便于人员管控。
Located in the metro transfer and core business district, and in an effort to avoid control blind spots, Golden Mall joined with the Beijing metro department to close the entrance and exit of shopping malls connecting subways, leaving only three exits and exits for offices and businesses.
金茂物业则在中化大厦、凯晨世茂中心门口放上了各类标识牌，包括“口罩指定投放”、“清杀清洁”、“询问登记”等等，在进入楼宇前就进行警示。
Jinmao property in the Zhonghua Building, Kechen Shimao Center on the door on a variety of signs, including "Mask designated to put," "cleaning," "inquiry registration," and so on, before entering the building warning.
金茂物业的工作人员在对写字楼门前的地垫进行消杀。
Kim Mau property staff in front of the office mat for the elimination.
测温、检查戴口罩、进楼登记，对于写字楼内已经复工的企业，这是大部分物业最基础的防控流程。
Thermometer, check wearing masks, into the building registration, for the office has been reinstated in the enterprise, this is the most basic property control process.
另外，不少物业单位在大堂或者进出口都提供了免洗洗手液，或者酒精消毒。
In addition, many property units in the lobby or import and export are provided with wash-free hand sanitizer, or alcohol disinfection.
门前的地垫每定期用84消毒液进行消毒，以降低外部的病毒病菌进入楼宇的可能。
The floor mats in front of the door are regularly sterilized with disinfectant 84 to reduce the possibility of external viral pathogens entering the building.
”周业辉表示，世邦魏理仕针对负责的楼宇物业，要求电梯箱体、按钮、公共办公区域，都保持2小时消毒一次的频率，下水、地漏等细节处进行彻底消毒。
Mr Chow said that for the buildings under his responsibility, the company required lift boxes, buttons and public office areas to be disinfected on a 2-hour basis and to be thoroughly sanitized in details such as drainage and floor spillage.
针对中央空调这一潜在“威胁”，各物业都转为了新风系统，并定期进行消杀。
In response to the potential "threat" of central air conditioning, properties have been converted to a new air system, and regular elimination.
金地中心在物业进行消杀的同时，要求入驻企业在各自的进风口，定期喷洒消毒水。
Jindi center in the property for the elimination of the same time, require resident enterprises in their own inlet, regular spraying disinfectant water.
金茂物业对中央空调进行定期消杀的同时，启用正压新风系统，将室外空气加压及预处理后送送入室内，避免出现室内空气的回风循环。
Jinmao property to the central air conditioning at the same time, the use of positive pressure fresh air system, outdoor air pressure and pre-treatment and evacuation into the indoor, to avoid indoor air circulation.
在吃饭问题上，各物业也尽可能严防死守。
When it comes to food, properties are being guarded as closely as possible.
弘阳地产位于上海总部的办公楼里，错峰吃饭的员工每人独自占据一张桌子吃饭，并且保持着2米左右的距离。
Hongyang real estate is located in the Shanghai headquarters office building, staggered staff eat a single table, and maintain a distance of about 2 meters.
有员工感叹，把午饭吃出了考场的庄严感。
Have an employee sigh, eat lunch out of the solemn feeling of the examination room.
不同于封闭式的企业办公楼食堂，金地广场的餐饮区“大食代”承担了商场人流和写字楼人员两部分的餐饮需求。
Unlike the closed enterprise office canteen, the dining area of Jindi Square "big food generation" bears the catering demand of shopping malls and office workers.
“这部分餐饮区目前还在营业，但是桌椅重新进行了布置，一个桌子只配一把椅子，桌子之间也只留了对角线的空位，保证食客间隔用餐。
"The dining area is still open, but the tables and chairs have been rearranged, one table has only one chair and there are only diagonal spaces between the tables to ensure that diners eat at intervals.
”刘晓薇介绍，针对写字楼租户，也动员企业鼓励员工自行带餐。
For office tenants, Ms. Liu said, companies were also being urged to bring their own meals.
金地广场和金地中心的出入口都设有测温点和登记处。
The entrances and exits of King's Square and King's Land Centre are equipped with temperature measuring points and registration offices.
周业辉则表示，针对有食堂的楼宇，餐厅采用送餐制，由物业给每个员工送到工位上，避免可能存在的交叉传染。
Mr Chow said catering facilities were used to deliver food from the property to each staff member to avoid possible cross-infection.
由于有着17年前北京抗击非典的经验，因此在肺炎疫情的消息传来之后，周业辉和同事在春节前便开始做准备：一是物资采购，一是人员动员：“物业存在大量的外包人员，所以春节前就跟外包公司动员，希望一些保洁、保安等后勤人员能够春节不离京。
As a result of Beijing's experience in fighting SARS 17 years ago, Zhou and his colleagues began to prepare for the Spring Festival after the news of the outbreak of pneumonia. First, there are a large number of outsourced personnel in the property, so before the Spring Festival with outsourcing companies mobilization, hope that some cleaning, security and other logistics personnel can not leave Beijing.
”因此，目前所有物业上的工作人员，在春节期间均未离开北京：“既避免了输入传染的风险，也免去了返京的隔离时间。
As a result, none of the property's current staff left Beijing during the Spring Festival: "Both the risk of imported infections and the time spent in quarantine returning to Beijing were avoided.
“金茂物业要求物业人员每天实施两次体温检测，并对备勤住宿人员进行集中管理，严格控制出入，以避免物业员工中出现疫情。
"The Jinmao property requires property staff to have their body temperature tested twice a day, and to centralize the management of the standby staff to control access strictly in order to avoid outbreaks among property staff.
不过，随着“云办公”时间逐渐结束、人员陆续返回写字楼的情况，物资和工作人员配比，是物业管理人员担忧的重点。
However, with the gradual end of the "cloud office" time, people are returning to the office, materials and staff ratio, property management staff is the focus of concern.
周业辉表示，虽然春节前就抢定了一批包括防护服、口罩、护目镜等在内的防护物资，但由于消耗极大，因此能支撑的时间最长也只有1个月。
Zhou Yihui said that although the Spring Festival pre-ordered a group of protective clothing, masks, goggles and other protective materials, but because of the heavy consumption, can only last for a month.
虽然后续物资也在订购，但各行业都面临物资短缺的问题，是否能跟得上还是个问题。
While follow-up supplies are also being ordered, industries are facing shortages and it is questionable whether they will be able to keep up.
另外，尽管及早动员留下了一批物业工作人员，但和正常运转时期相比，现在的人员配比只有平时的70%，每栋楼宇目前都采用维持楼宇运转的基本保障人数去配备。
In addition, despite the early mobilization of a pool of property staff, the ratio is now only 70 per cent as compared to the normal operating period, and each building is currently equipped with a basic level of security to keep the building running.
“但是随着写字楼复工人员逐渐增多，这批人手工作量会面临较大压力的问题。
"But with the number of office workers returning to work, there will be a lot of pressure on these people.
如果离京人员还面临封村、封城、返程隔离的问题，人手不够会是很大的问题。
If the people who leave Beijing still face the problem of sealing the village, sealing the city and returning to the city, the shortage of staff will be a big problem.
”周业辉说。
'said Zhou.
金茂和金地的物业人员也表达出类似的忧虑。
Property owners in Jinmao and Jindi have expressed similar concerns.
刘晓薇表示，根据对客户的摸底调研，正式复工预计还有本月的17日、23日，以及3月的几个节点，随着人员进入越来越多，担心楼内的管控压力会越来越大。
Liu said she expected the work to resume on the 17th and 23rd of this month, as well as several nodes in March, on the basis of a mapping of customers, and expressed concern about increasing regulatory pressure in the building as more and more people enter.
金茂物业负责人也表示，由于很多物业员工春节期间就在岗，加上复工后的工作强度，一线员工也会存在过度疲劳、免疫力下降的情况。
Jin Mao property manager also said, because many property staff during the Spring Festival, plus the intensity of work after the resumption of work, frontline staff will have excessive fatigue, immune decline.
而对于写字楼行业而言，目前最担忧的问题，莫过于返工后可能出现的疑似及确证病例。
For the office industry, the most worrying issue is likely to be rework after the suspected and confirmed cases.
中指控股副总裁兼中指数据事业部总经理葛海峰在早前的商办分析会上表示，如果一旦楼内出现疫情，不论商户还是业主，都会面临巨大影响：“疫情一旦出现就会封楼，那么楼内的其他租户是否有权利提出免租要求？导致其他租户经营产生的停顿和阻碍怎么解决？这会产生一系列的法律问题。
At an earlier business analysis meeting, Ge Haifeng, the vice president of the middle finger and the general manager of the Data Division, said: "Should an outbreak occur, will the other tenants in the building have the right to claim rent-free status?
”因此他认为，即便企业陆续复工，防疫仍是首要工作。
So even as businesses resume work, immunization remains a top priority, he said.
(文中鲁媛为化名）未经授权 禁止转载。
Liu Yuanyuan is not authorized to reproduce this work.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
复工第一天，北京写字楼的防疫大考。
The first day of resumption of work, Beijing office immunization exam.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "复工第一天，北京写字楼的防疫大考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "物资紧缺、人手不够，是写字楼防疫面临的难题。
var msg _ desc = & quot; A shortage of supplies and staff is a problem for office buildings.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
