加油站生意惨淡，今年前两月成品油消费量同比降超三成。
Gas station business is bleak, product consumption fell more than 30% year on year in the first two months of this year.
侯瑞宁。
Hou Rinling.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：侯瑞宁“ 随着企业陆续复工，私家车出行有一定增加，汽油需求会有好转。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "With the resumption of work, private car travel to a certain extent, gasoline demand will improve.
短期内，汽油需求难以恢复正常水平。
In the short term, gasoline demand will not return to normal.
”“春节到现在，加油站每天的汽油销售量只有春节前的20%，这两天甚至下降到了10%。
"Gasoline sales at gas stations have fallen from 20 percent before the Spring Festival to as low as 10 percent in the past two days.
”2月11日，山西省太原市民营加油站老板甄荣对界面新闻表示，受新冠病毒疫情影响，本应在春节期间呈现小高峰的汽油销量，不断下跌。
Zhen Rong, owner of a private gas station in Taiyuan, Shanxi province, told the Interface News on Feb. 11 that gasoline sales, which were supposed to peak at a small peak during the Spring Festival, were falling due to the new cap virus.
为了应对疫情给加油站带来的影响，公司采取了轮班制。
To deal with the impact of the epidemic on gas stations, the company adopted a shift system.
“以前每个加油站每天有四名加油员值班，现在每天只有两名加油员。
"There used to be four refuellers per day at each gas station, but now there are only two refuellers a day.
”甄荣说。
Zhen Rong said.
“我们还没有降薪。
"We haven't cut wages yet.
”甄荣称如果疫情继续下去，希望政府能够给予税收减免等方面的支持。
Zhen said he hoped the government would provide tax relief and other support if the epidemic continues.
隆众资讯的监测数据显示，春节期间，各地民营加油站的汽油日销量下降到了2019年同期的20%-30%。
Monitoring data from rumbling sources show that daily gasoline sales at private gas stations around the country fell to 20% to 30% during the same period in 2019.
国有企业的加油站销售情况也不乐观。
Sales of gas stations in state-owned companies are also gloomy.
大宗商品一体化交易服务商金联创称，江苏省中石化某相关负责人表示，春节期间加油站汽油销量下滑严重，预计只完成去年同期的20%。
Jin Liancheng, a commodities integration trading service provider, said sales of gasoline at petrol stations fell sharply during the Spring Festival, compared with an estimated 20% in the same period last year.
2月10日，中国石化发布消息称，受春节及疫情影响，其1月成品油经营量同比下降12.7%，至1403万吨。
On February 10, Sinopec reported that due to the Spring Festival and the epidemic, its volume of refined oil business fell 12.7 percent year-on-year to 14.03 million tons in January.
金联创预计，1-2月，国内成品油市场消费量明显回落，汽柴油表观消费量同比跌幅约35%。
Mr Kim predicted that domestic consumption of refined oil would fall significantly between January and February, with apparent gasoline and diesel consumption down about 35 per cent year on year.
自疫情爆发以来，国内多地开始执行交通管制，民众出行大幅减少，私家车活跃度下降明显。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, many parts of the country began to enforce traffic control, people travel significantly reduced, private car activity decreased significantly.
加之下游工业企业延期开工，2月10日才开始大面积复产，成品油销量在此期间受到较大影响。
Combined with delays in the start of downstream industrial enterprises, February 10 began large-scale resumption of production, refined oil sales during the period affected.
在供应侧方面，据金联创开工率计算公式显示，截至2月3日，44家山东地炼平均开工率为48.9%，较节前下跌16个百分点；2月，55家主营炼厂的整体开工负荷将下滑至70%附近。
On the supply side, as of February 3, the average start-up rate in 44 Shandong provinces was 48.9%, down 16 percentage points from the previous year, according to the formula for calculating the start-up rate.
隆众资讯数据显示，截至2月3日，山东常减压装置实际炼能在200万吨/年及以上的地方炼厂，开工率跌至47.55%，为三年内新低。
As of February 3, local refineries with actual capacity of 2 million tons / year or more in shandong had fallen to a new low of 47.55 per cent in three years, according to information provided by the Ministry of Commerce.
隆众资讯分析师丁旭曾预计，2月上旬，山东地炼常减压装置开工率在45%-50%波动，仍有走低空间，但不会无限制下滑。
Ding Xu, an information analyst with Rongzhong, had predicted that construction of the Shandong atmospheric pressure-relief plant would fluctuate between 45% and 50% in the first half of February.
但相较于供给，疫情对于需求的影响更大，也由此带来了柴、汽油价格下滑。
But the epidemic has had a greater impact on demand than supply, leading to lower prices for firewood and gasoline.
据金联创监测全国指数显示，春节期间，92#汽油均价为6687元/吨，较节前下跌4.59%；95#汽油均价为6915元/吨，较节前下跌4.43%；0#柴油均价为6494元/吨，较节前下4.12%。
During the Spring Festival period, the average price of 92# gasoline was 6,687 yuan per ton, down 4.59 percent from the previous festival, while the average price of 95 # gasoline was 6915 yuan per ton, down 4.43 percent from the previous period.
“2月10日之后，随着企业陆续复工，私家车出行有一定增加，汽油需求会有好转。
"After February 10, as companies resume work and private car travel increases, the demand for gasoline will improve.
”金联创成品油高级分析师王延婷表示，但疫情仍在继续，民众出行半径以及频率依然较为有限，短期汽油需求难以恢复正常水平。
Wang Yanting, a senior analyst at KMT, said the epidemic was continuing, with limited travel radius and frequency and short-term demand for gasoline returning to normal levels.
近年来，国内汽油消费量一直低迷。
Domestic gasoline consumption has been low in recent years.
中国石油集团经济技术研究院发布的《2019年国内外油气行业发展报告》预计，2019年国内汽油实际消费量约1.54亿吨，较上年仅增长了4.6%，连续三年呈现中低速增长；汽油表观消费量首次出现了负增长，较上年降低了1.6%，达1.24亿吨。
The 2019 Domestic and International Oil and Gas Industry Development Report released by the China Petroleum Corporation's Institute of Economics and Technology predicts that the actual domestic consumption of gasoline in 2019 will be about 154 million tons, up only 4.6% from the previous year.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
加油站生意惨淡，今年前两月成品油消费量同比降超三成。
Gas station business is bleak, product consumption fell more than 30% year on year in the first two months of this year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "加油站生意惨淡，今年前两月成品油消费量同比降超三成";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; gas station business was dismal, with product consumption falling by more than 30% year-on-year in the first two months of this year.
var msg_desc = "随着企业陆续复工，私家车出行有一定增加，汽油需求会有好转。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; gasoline demand will improve as companies resume work and private car travel increases.
短期内，汽油需求难以恢复正常水平。
In the short term, gasoline demand will not return to normal.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
