“返京潮”的挑战，北京准备好了么？。
"Back to Beijing tide" challenge, Beijing ready?
丘濂 刘畅 陈晓。
CHEW Ting LIU CHEUNG
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
1月29日下午，北京市委办、市政府办联合发文，提出本市出现多起聚集性病例（一家人里有几人发病）、没有湖北接触史的本地病例、以及发现隐性感染者和低龄感染者，波及范围可能越来越广。
On the afternoon of January 29, a joint communication from the Beijing Municipal Committee Office and the municipal government office suggested that there had been a number of cases of aggregation in the city (several cases in one family), no history of exposure in Hubei Province, and the detection of hidden infections and young infections, which were likely to be more widespread.
这些迹象都意味着“北京疫情出现由输入期转入扩散期的迹象。
These are all signs of a "shift in the Beijing epidemic from an import phase to a spreading one."
”根据武汉天河机场的航班运力数据，在武汉封城之前的20多天，有六万五千多人从武汉飞到北京，位居全国第一。
According to Wuhan Tianhe Airport's flight capacity data, more than 65,000 people flew from Wuhan to Beijing in the more than 20 days before the city was closed, ranking first in the country.
随着整个春节期间疫情在各地的扩散，2月初即将到来的春运返京人潮，又给北京的防控工作提出新的挑战。
With the spread of the epidemic in all areas throughout the Spring Festival, the upcoming Spring Festival transportation back to Beijing in early February has posed new challenges to Beijing's prevention and control efforts.
疑似感染患者范围再次拓宽，一部分专科医疗骨干驰援武汉，新的返京人潮即将来临，北京准备好了吗？记者 | 丘濂 刘畅 陈晓“返京潮”的挑战，如何应对大量疑似患者？春节后的返京人流，对北京防疫而言是一个挑战。
Is Beijing ready to respond to the challenge of returning to Beijing with a new wave of returning Beijing residents? The influx of people back to Beijing after the Spring Festival is a challenge for the city.
由于疫情已在全国扩散，并且出现第三代、四代感染者，湖北之外的其他地区的返京人士都在防控范围内。
As the epidemic has spread throughout the country, and the emergence of the third and fourth generation of infected people, Hubei outside of the Beijing people are in the scope of prevention and control.
据《北京人口蓝皮书：北京人口发展报告（2018）》显示，朝阳区、海淀区常住外来人口最多，占全北京外来人口近4成，这两个区的防控任务更为严重。
According to the Beijing Population Blue Book: Beijing Population Development Report (2018), Chaoyang District and Haidian District are home to the most foreign residents, accounting for nearly 40 percent of the total migrant population in Beijing.
李黎是北京一处街道的负责人，他所在的街道有几万户家庭，是个规模较大的街道。
Li Li, who heads a street in Beijing, is part of a larger street with tens of thousands of families.
“按照潜伏期的大致规律，我们摸排的人从1月21日武汉疫情变得严峻往前推两周，调查从1月7日以后到过湖北的人，要求他们每天上报体温，自我隔离，尽量不出门。
"According to the general pattern of the incubation period, the people we mapped out turned out to be two weeks ahead of the Wuhan epidemic on January 21. Those who had been to Hubei from January 7 were asked to report their temperature every day, insulate themselves and try not to go out
即使出门也要戴口罩，不能乘坐公共交通。
Wear a mask even when going out. Do not use public transport.
”远征 摄李黎的街道并未有确诊病例，但是有“密切接触者”，也就是接触过确诊患者的人。
There were no confirmed cases on Li's street, but there were "close contacts," people who had been in contact with confirmed patients.
“针对这部分人，是街道和公安配合监控。
"For this part of the population, the streets and public security cooperation monitoring.
原则上坚决不允许出门，需要的物品我们集中采购再做配送。
In principle do not allow to go out, the need for goods we centralized procurement and distribution.
”李黎推测，下一步可能更多街道内的小区要进行封闭、半封闭的管理，减少人员的流动，以应对疫情扩散期。
The next step, Li speculates, could be for more neighborhoods in the streets to be under closed, semi-enclosed regulations to reduce the flow of people to cope with the spreading epidemic.
但如果措施落到实处，需要“人盯人”的管理。
But if the measures are implemented, people-to-person management is needed.
但许多老旧小区并没有物业，而以前能发动的街道志愿者又多为老年人，并不适合在疫情发生时出外活动。
But many of the old neighborhoods don't have properties, and the street volunteers who used to be able to do so are mostly elderly and are not suited to travel when outbreaks occur.
李黎担心，“到时人手可能会成为难题。
Li worried that "manpower may be a problem."
”北京疫情变化的一个重要节点是1月25日，疫情通报中首次出现了无湖北接触史的患者。
An important point in the change in Beijing was January 25, when patients with no history of Hubei contact appeared for the first time in an outbreak notice.
北京大学第一医院呼吸和危重症医学科主任王广发接受本刊采访时，特别强调了这起病例。
Beijing University Hospital No. 1 Respiratory and Critical Medicine Director Wang Guangfa told this print interview, with special emphasis on the case.
他在内参中写道，这起病例“意味着北京的防控策略要随时准备发生变化”，“防止病毒落地生根，再出现第二个武汉。
The case "means Beijing's prevention and control strategy needs to be ready to change," he wrote, "to prevent the virus from taking root and a second Wuhan.
”所谓“落地生根”，指的是大量新增病例不再是输入病例，而是本地病例。
"Rooting" means that a large number of new cases are no longer imported, but local.
本地病例增多则意味着存在社区传播的危险。
The increase in local cases means that there is a risk of community transmission.
2003年，北京曾在这个问题上有过惨痛教训。
In 2003, Beijing learned the hard way.
“‘非典’最早发生在广东，被一位超级传播者带到北京后，在北京落地生根，引起了非常严重的疫情。
"SARS first occurred in Guangdong, was brought to Beijing by a super-disseminator and took root in Beijing, causing a very serious outbreak.
目前一两例还不说明问题，但要密切关注这个数字的变化，一旦增加，防控就不能只盯着湖北方向的来人了。
One or two current cases do not illustrate the problem, but pay close attention to the number of changes, once the increase, the control can not only focus on Hubei people.
”王广发对本刊说。
"Wang Guangfa told the magazine.
1月27日，卫健委发布的第四版“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案”中，王广发的警示得到了体现。
On January 27, the health committee released the fourth edition of the "New Coronavirus Infection Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program," Wang Guangfa's warning was reflected.
对于疑似病人的判定，除了和湖北有关系外，还增加了发热前14天内接触“其他有本地病例持续传播地区”以及“有聚集性发病或与新型冠状病毒感染者有流行病学关联”。
For suspected patients, in addition to the relationship with Hubei, but also increased 14 days before the fever exposure "other areas where local cases continue to spread" and "there is a concentrated disease or epidemiological association with new coronary virus infections."
通俗些来说，前者指的是在有3代、4代感染者（无湖北接触史的病人）的地区旅行或居住，后者指的是有身边一些人同时发烧的现象，或者是和感染者有过接触。
Popular, the former refers to travel or residence in areas with three or four generations of infected persons (patients with no history of contact with Hubei), the latter referring to people around them who have a fever or who have been in contact with an infected person.
这就将排查范围扩大了。
This broadens the scope of the inventory.
2019年12月，北京的医院已经开始重视但这也形成一个新的问题——需要确诊的疑似病人数量可能增加不少。
By December 2019, hospitals in Beijing had begun to pay attention, but this also posed a new problem - the number of suspected patients who needed to be diagnosed could increase considerably.
2020年初新冠状病毒肺炎的一个特点就是：疑似很多，确诊相对更少。
Early in 2020 a new coronavirus pneumonia is characterized by a suspected high number of diagnosis of relatively few.
一个是因为对此次病毒的认识还不全面。
One is that knowledge of the virus is incomplete.
从不确定“人传人“，到确定”人传人”，再到出现无症状感染者，病毒的传播力和传染途径在不断拓宽，导致疑似范围大大增加。
From the uncertainty of "person-to-person" to the identification of "person-to-person" to asymptomatic infections, the transmission power of the virus and the ways in which it is transmitted continue to widen, leading to a significant increase in suspected areas.
再加上冬天原本就是呼吸道感染的高发季节，普通病毒肺炎、细菌肺炎、流感患者和新型冠状病毒患者混在一起，而用试剂盒确诊的方式因为敏感度较高，必须检测两次才能有结果。
Combined with the high incidence of respiratory tract infections in winter, common viral pneumonia, bacterial pneumonia, influenza patients and new coronavirus patients are mixed together, while the method of diagnosis with a kit is highly sensitive and must be tested twice before results can be obtained.
这样一来，大量涌现的疑似病患的确诊就需要更多时间和更多医疗程序。
As a result, more time and more medical procedures are needed to diagnose the large number of suspected patients that have emerged.
这对医疗空间，人力和医疗资源都提出相当大的考验。
This places considerable strain on medical space, human and medical resources.
“这也是现在武汉防控难度巨大的原因。
"This is the reason why Wuhan is now so difficult to control.
”王广发对本刊记者说。
"Wang Guangfa told our reporter.
北京目前也面临着相似的挑战。
Beijing faces a similar challenge.
因为本身医疗资源较强，加上2003年非典留下的经验教训，北京防控疫情的开局还不错。
Because of its strong medical resources and the lessons learned from SARS in 2003, Beijing has made a good start in preventing and controlling the epidemic.
北京一家三甲医院的呼吸科医生林安告诉本刊：“2019年12月下旬，当武汉疫情开始出现时，北京医院就已经下达通知，提醒门急诊相关科室注意筛查了。
"In late December 2019, when the Wuhan epidemic began to appear, Beijing hospitals had already issued circulars alerting the emergency department to the need for screening," Lin An, a respiratory doctor at a triple-A hospital in Beijing, told the magazine.
”但1月29日卫健委公布的信息表明，疫情确实还在爬坡阶段，北京本地二代病例呈上升趋势。
However, information released by the Wei Bodyguard Commission on January 29 showed that the epidemic was indeed climbing and that the number of local second-generation cases in Beijing was on the rise.
为了避免2003年落地生根的悲剧再次发生，在短时间内没有特效药的情况下，打赢这场仗的最有力手段就是早发现，早隔离，尽量将疑似患者纳入防控体系。
In order to avoid a recurrence of the tragedy that took root in 2003, and in the absence of a specific remedy in the short term, the most powerful means of winning the war is early detection, early isolation and the inclusion of suspected patients in the prevention and control system.
但北京的医疗资源是否有能力应对疫情爬坡期出现的更多疑似患者呢？发热门诊的压力林安告诉本刊：“目前在发热门诊，我们进行病人筛查时工作量就很大。
But will Beijing's medical resources be able to cope with the increased number of suspected patients during the uphill phase of the outbreak Lin'an told the magazine: "At the current fever clinic, we have a very heavy workload when it comes to patient screening
医生需要花费时间、掰开揉碎地去询问病人之前的经历。
It takes time for the doctor to break apart and ask the patient about his past experience.
不止湖北了，如果他去过其他地区，也要掂量他在当地的那几天里，那里的疫情到底算不算严重。
Hubei is not only, if he has been to other areas, but also to weigh his local days, where the epidemic is not serious.
一些地区到底有没有出现3代、4代的感染者并不是很明确，这就给判断造成了困难。
Whether three or four generations of infected people are present in some areas is not clear, which makes judgment difficult.
”林安所在的医院，发热门诊只有四个具备隔离条件的病房。
Lin'an's hospital has only four separate wards for fever clinics.
他们进行流行病学史和临床表现两方面的筛查后，如果仍然高度怀疑的病人，他们会向疾控中心申请来做试剂盒的检测。
After screening for both epidemiological and clinical findings, patients who are still highly suspicious apply to the CDC for a kit test.
检测第一次为阴性的病人会在这里隔离居住，等待第二次的检测。
Patients tested negative for the first time will be quarantined here, awaiting a second test.
卫健委已经向协和医院、人民医院等具备检测条件的医院下发试剂盒，林安的医院也将很快获得，这会加快确诊的速度。
The health committee has issued kits to hospitals equipped with testing conditions, such as Concorde Hospital and People's Hospital, and Lin'an's hospital will soon be available, which will speed up the diagnosis.
这或许会增加确诊速度，减轻隔离病房的压力。
This may increase the speed of diagnosis and relieve pressure on isolation wards.
北京现有101家医院设有发热门诊，各家面临的发热病人的数量并不相同。
There are 101 hospitals in Beijing with fever clinics, and families face different numbers of febrile patients.
在昌平区的一家医院，发热门诊的隔离病房已经几经扩大。
In a hospital in Changping district, the isolation ward of the fever clinic has been expanded several times.
“最开始是改造了肠道门诊，后来由将一处临时用房和一个体检中心都改为隔离病房。
"It started as a remodelling of the intestinal clinic and was later converted from a temporary facility and a medical examination centre into an isolation ward.
隔离病房要求不能是是在主楼楼建筑中，必须是独栋建筑，并且还要将病人单间隔离，不能两位疑似病人混在一起。
Isolation room requirements can not be in the main building building, must be a single building, and patients must be isolated, not two suspected patients mixed together.
”医院的一位医生李恒告诉本刊。
Li Heng, a doctor at the hospital, told the magazine.
按照这样的要求，经过收编改造，医院才有了30多个隔离病床，现在已经是满员状态。
As a result of this request, the hospital has more than 30 separate beds and is now fully staffed.
如何重组医生资源？1月26日和1月27日，由北京出发了三支医疗队伍奔赴武汉，全力投入防控新型冠状病毒感染肺炎疫情的战役中。
On January 26 and January 27, three medical teams from Beijing flew to Wuhan to devote themselves to the fight against the new coronavirus infection known as pneumonia.
“国家队”两支，一支由在京委属委管医院的6家医院组成，包括121名医务人员；还有一支是两家中医院、共计40名中医工作者组成的队伍。
There are two national teams, one consisting of six hospitals under the Beijing Commission Hospital, including 121 medical staff, and one team of 40 Chinese medicine practitioners from two Chinese medicine hospitals.
另外一支则是12家市属医院的136位医护人员组成的“北京队”。
The other is the Beijing team of 136 medical personnel from 12 city hospitals.
这三支队伍里集结了北京20家三甲医院急诊、感染、重症、呼吸等领域的骨干。
The three teams have assembled the backbone of 20 hospitals in Beijing in the areas of emergency, infection, severe illness and breathing.
王广发也告诉本刊记者，一旦确认痊愈出院后，他也很可能奔赴武汉，他所属的北京大学第一医院已经有个医疗队在那里了。
Wang also told reporters that once confirmed that he had recovered from hospital, he is also likely to go to Wuhan, where his Beijing University Hospital No. 1 already has a medical team.
一批医疗骨干支援最前线，对打赢这场战役固然是个好消息，但也给北京乃至所有支援“前线”的城市留下了一个问题：如何利用和重组好留在城市里的医生队伍，应对疫情爬坡期？林安告诉本刊记者，因为筛查病人的复杂性，前期负责筛查的医生压力比较大。
A cadre of health care workers at the forefront of the campaign is good news for winning the battle, but it also leaves Beijing - and all the cities that support it - with a question about how to use and reorganize the teams of doctors who remain in the city to cope with the uphill phase of the epidemic.
尤其这家医院也是支援武汉“国家队”的成员。
In particular, the hospital is supporting Wuhan "national team" members.
“医院走了20个人。
"There are 20 people in the hospital.
除了13名护士之外，呼吸科抽调了一位主任医师和两位高年资主治医师，外科监护室走了两位副主任医师和一位主治医师，感染控制处还调走了一位。
In addition to the 13 nurses, the Department of Respiratory Services deployed one chief physician and two senior physicians, the Surgery Unit two associate doctors and one attending physician, and the Infection Control Unit transferred one.
考虑到一个科室只有十三四个骨干，并且可能还有第二轮支援，我们也面临人手上的紧张。
Considering that one section has only 13 or 4 cadres, and possibly a second round of support, we also face human tensions.
”而李恒所在的医院也是北京市医疗队成员，同样承担了支援武汉的任务。
Li Heng's hospital, a member of the Beijing Medical Team, has also been tasked with supporting Wuhan.
一共派出11位医生和护士，都是和这次疫情最直接相关的呼吸与危重症医学科、感染性疾病科、重症医学科、急诊科、普内科等科室成员。
A total of 11 doctors and nurses were sent to the department of respiratory and critical medicine, infectious diseases, severe medicine, emergency medicine and general medicine, all of which were most directly related to the outbreak.
在30多张病床全满的情况下，医院的内科、外科、专科等部门都抽调出医生，由感染科统一进行培训，支援发热门诊的工作。
With more than 30 beds full, doctors are drawn from departments of medicine, surgery and specialties to support the work of the fever clinic through uniform training by the Infection Unit.
防控物资的缺口近日来，中日友好医院、安贞医院、军区总医院、中医科学院望京医院等都公开发布了向社会征集医疗物资的公告。
In recent days, the China-Japan Friendship Hospital, An Zhen Hospital, the General Hospital of the Military Region and the Wangjing Hospital of the Academy of Chinese Medicine have all made public announcements on the collection of medical materials from the public.
李恒告诉本刊，他所在医院的物资已经统一管理起来，并不能像过去那样按需领取。
Li Heng told the magazine that the materials of his hospital had been uniformly managed and could not be received on demand as in the past.
“急诊那边N95口罩之前是每四个小时一领取，现在变成八小时领一次。
"The N95 mask in the emergency department, which used to be collected every four hours, is now available for eight hours.
为了减少危险，医务人员在N95外边再加戴一个外科口罩，外科口罩保证四小时一换。
To reduce the risk, paramedics put on a surgical mask outside N95, which is guaranteed to be replaced every four hours.
”赵鹃是一家三甲医院的物资对接人，她告诉本刊，医院共派出10名医护人员支援武汉，本着不能给当地再增加压力的原则，援助人员带走了一些防护物资满足自用。
Zhao, a material docker at a three-A hospital, told reporters that the hospital had sent 10 medical staff to Wuhan to help meet its own needs, on the principle that it would not add pressure to the area.
因为防护衣平时医院用得少，本身仓库存货不多，这就成为了最“捉襟见肘”的消耗品。
Because protective clothing is usually used less hospital, its own warehouse inventory is not much, this has become the most "overstretched" consumables.
“一套防护服并不是能够穿着一天。
"A suit is not meant to last a day.
比如发热门诊一旦发现了高度疑似病例，医生就需要换掉防护服，才能接诊下一个病人。
If, for example, a fever clinic detects a highly suspicious case, the doctor needs to change the suit to take care of the next patient.
并且中间休息时，医生从发热门诊的污染区回到清洁区，就要脱掉防护服，再进去要换新的，防护服都是一次性使用。
And during the break, doctors from the fever clinic contaminated areas back to the clean area, have to take off protective clothing, and then go in to replace a new, protective clothing is a one-time use.
”出勤救助一次患者之后，医务人员让同事用医用酒精喷洒自己的目镜，在物资紧张的情况下，尽量能多用几次。
Attendance Rescue Medical staff asked colleagues to spray their glasses with medical alcohol once and use them as many times as possible under tight supplies.
（高星 摄）赵鹃所在医院目前的防护物资，只能满足急诊、发热门诊的医生进行装备。
(Gao Xing She) Zhao cuckoo's hospital's current protective materials, can only meet the emergency, fever clinic doctors to carry out equipment.
“但有的冠状病毒感染者可能并不会发烧，测量体温不能分诊到发热门诊进行治疗，所以像呼吸科、耳鼻喉科等一般门诊的大夫也是暴露在危险之下。
"But some people with coronary viruses may not have a fever and the temperature cannot be treated in a fever clinic, so doctors in general clinics such as respiratory departments, otorhinolaryngology are also at risk.
”在赵鹃给本刊提供的每日物资消耗列表里，如果要满足全院相关科室的使用，防护服每天就需要300套，还有N95口罩500个，无菌手套8500只等等。
"In the daily list of material consumption Zhao provides to the magazine, 300 suits a day, 500 N95 masks and 8,500 sterile gloves are needed to meet the needs of the hospital.
像口罩这样的防护用品都有保质期，平时购买渠道畅通时，医院不会采购太多，所以存货也不多。
Protective products such as masks have shelf life, usually when the purchase channel is open, the hospital will not purchase too much, so the stock is not much.
赵鹃告诉本刊：“现在医院最缺乏的是防护衣，还剩下三十套，估计能坚持三四天。
Zhao cuckoos told this print: "At present the hospital is the most lack of protective clothing, there are 30 sets left, estimated to last three or four days.
”尽管还没有公开发布求助公告，但赵鹃医院的工作人员都纷纷在朋友圈里向友人询问，是否有物资援助的渠道。
Though no public call for help has yet been made, the staff at the Zhao cuckoos hospital are asking friends in a circle of friends whether there are channels for material assistance.
1月28日，钟南山接受新华社采访时做出预测：“疫情可能在一周或十天左右达到高峰，但不会大规模增加了。
"The epidemic may peak in a week or so, but not on a large scale," Zhong told Xinhua on January 28.
”这个谨慎乐观的消息，既代表着之前的强力防控措施开始发挥作用，也表明着“黎明前的黑暗”即将来临——在1月底到2月初的这段时间，仍然是疫情的爬坡期。
The cautiously optimistic news represents both the start of strong control measures and the approach of "pre-dawn darkness" - the period between the end of January and the beginning of February, when the epidemic is still climbing.
（林安、李恒、赵鹃、李黎均为化名；实习记者张佳婧对本文亦有贡献）作者档案丘濂夏天请赶紧来26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@三联周刊丘濂请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
(Lin An, Li Heng, Zhao Cuckoo, Li Li are aliases; Practice Journalist Zhang Jing Jing has contributed to this article) Please come 26 minutes ago to Lifestyle Weekly individual Weibo: @ Three Lives Weekly News Series: Wuhan New Pneumonia Series
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“返京潮”的挑战，北京准备好了么？。
"Back to Beijing tide" challenge, Beijing ready?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“返京潮”的挑战，北京准备好了么？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疑似感染患者范围再次拓宽，一部分专科医疗骨干驰援武汉，新的返京人潮即将来临，北京准备好了吗？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; once again, the range of suspected infections has widened, with a cadre of specialist medical personnel racing to Wuhan and a new wave of returning Beijing ready?
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
