1人致三国11人感染，英国疑似“超级传播者”有何特点？。
One person infects 11 people in three countries. What are the characteristics of a suspected "super-communicator" in Britain?
潘金花。
Pan Jinhua.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
英国“三号患者”史蒂夫·沃尔什 图片来源：Servomex记者：潘金花“ 周二，英国疑似“超级传播者”沃尔什发表声明说，自己已经完全康复。
2007-9-25 21: 48 "British sufferer Steve Walsh says he's fully recovered from a suspected" super communicator "in Britain on Tuesday.
他感谢了朋友、家人与同事，也希望媒体能够尊重他们的隐私。
He thanked his friends, family and colleagues and hoped that the media would respect their privacy.
”上周四，英国确诊了第三例新型冠状病毒感染病例，为英国本土的首位患者。
Britain confirmed the third case of a new coronavirus infection on Thursday, the first case in the U.K.
当时，英国首席医学官克里斯·惠蒂教授（Chris Whitty）曾表示，应对这样的病例，国民保健系统（NHS）“已经做好充分的准备”。
At the time, Chris Whitty, Britain's chief medical officer, said the NHS was "well prepared" to deal with such cases.
但在短短四天后，英国人发现，该病例远没有想象中那么简单。
But just four days later, the British found the case to be far less simple than expected.
据《卫报》10日报道，这位“三号患者”现已被认为直接或间接传染了法国、英国及西班牙新增的11例确诊病例，很有可能是一名“超级传播者”。
The No.3 is believed to have directly or indirectly infected 11 new cases in France, the United Kingdom and Spain, possibly a "super-communicator," The Guardian reported Thursday.
追踪“三号患者”据了解，这名男子名叫史蒂夫·沃尔什（Steve Walsh），今年53岁。
Trace Patient # 3, a 53-year-old man known as Steve Walsh.
他来自英格兰东萨塞克斯郡布莱顿镇，是仕富梅（Servomex）公司的员工。
He is from Brighton, East Sussex, England, and works for Servmex.
1月20日至22日，这家专门提供气体分析解决方案的英国企业在新加坡君悦酒店组织了一场共有109人参加的行业会议，该男子也被安排出席。
The UK-based company, which specializes in gas analysis solutions, organized a 109-person industry conference at the Grand Hyatt in Singapore from January 20 to 22. The man was also scheduled to attend.
与他一样来自海外的与会代表共有94人，其中包括一位来自武汉的参会者。
He was joined by 94 delegates from overseas, including one from Wuhan.
会议结束后，该男子登上飞机，前往了海外之行的第二站——勃朗峰附近的法国滑雪胜地Les Contamines-Montjoie。
At the end of the meeting, the man boarded the plane for the French ski resort Les Contamines-Montjoie, near Mont Blanc, the second stop of his overseas trip.
1月24日至28日，他与多位英国籍人士（有报道称是其家人）在雪地坡顶的木屋里度过了五天时光。
From 24 to 28 January, he spent five days in a wooden hut on a snow slope with a number of British nationals, reportedly members of his family.
英国“三号患者”行动轨迹 来源：卫报28日当天，他乘坐从日内瓦飞往伦敦盖特威克机场的easyJet EZS8481航班返回英国，当时机上还载有其他183名乘客与6名机组人员。
The Guardian flew home from Geneva to London's Gatwick Airport with 183 other passengers and six crew members on board when he returned to Britain on Tuesday, according to the Guardian.
回到家后，他曾在当地的Cornerstone社区中心参加了一节瑜伽课，还在2月1日晚去了一家名叫The Grenadier的酒吧小酌。
Back home, he attended a yoga class at the local Cornerstone community center and spent the night of February 1 drinking at The Grenadier.
直至新加坡会议中有人确诊的消息传来，他才意识到，自己有可能感染了新冠病毒。
It was not until word of the confirmation came from a conference in Singapore that he realized he might be infected with the new crown virus.
4日至5日，马来西亚与韩国先后确诊了1例与2例与该会议有关的病例。
From 4 to 5, Malaysia and the Republic of Korea confirmed one case and two cases related to the conference.
还未出现症状的他随即向当地公共医疗机构报告，并在6日诊断出阳性后，被立即转移至NHS高危传染病（HCID）专业治疗中心下属的圣托马斯医院接受治疗。
He immediately reported the symptoms to the local public health service and was immediately referred to the St. Thomas Hospital of the NHS Centre for the Treatment of High-Risk Infections (HCID) following positive diagnosis on the 6th day.
很快，与他有接触史的确诊病例开始在英国及附近国家小范围暴发。
Soon, confirmed cases with a history of exposure began to erupt in the UK and nearby countries on a small scale.
8日，法国卫生部长布赞（Agnès Buzyn）宣布，包括一名9岁儿童在内的5名英国公民新冠病毒检测呈阳性，均曾与英国“三号患者”同住一间木屋。
On February 8, French Health Minister Agnès Buzyn announced that five British citizens, including a nine-year-old child, had tested positive for the new crown virus and had shared a wooden hut with British patient No. 3.
9日，英格兰公共卫生局（PHE）宣布出现第四例感染者，该患者曾在法国与“三号患者”有过接触。
A fourth case of infection has been reported in England by the Public Health Service (PHE), which has been in contact with No.3 in France.
同一日，西班牙马略卡岛也宣布新增一例确诊病例，患者曾前往上述法国雪场。
The same day, the Spanish island of Mallorca also announced a new confirmed case, the patients have been to the French snow field.
10日，PHE再次确认三男一女感染新冠病毒，均来自布莱顿。
10, PHE confirmed three men and a woman infected with the new crown virus, both from Brighton.
首席医学官惠蒂教授表示，新增的四名患者都属于先前确认的英国病例的已知接触者，病毒传自法国，其中有两人是医护工作者，一人为布莱顿萨塞克斯大学的学生。
Professor Whitty, chief medical officer, said the four new patients were known to have been in contact with previously confirmed cases in the UK, with the virus having spread from France, including two medical workers and a student at the University of Sussex in Brighton.
在那之前英国已有四个确诊病例。
There have been four confirmed cases in the UK since then.
超级传播者？为应对确诊病例的突然“翻倍”，英国已在10日宣布新冠病毒疫情是“对公共健康严重且迫在眉睫的威胁”。
In response to the sudden doubling of confirmed cases, the United Kingdom announced on the 10th the new crown virus outbreak as a "serious and imminent threat to public health."
目前，英国正在加紧排查所有曾与确诊患者接触过的人，并已在英格兰威勒尔及米尔顿凯恩斯划定了两家官方“隔离”医疗设施。
The UK is stepping up its efforts to identify all those who have come into contact with confirmed patients, and has designated two official "quarantined" medical facilities in Wales and Milton Cairns, England.
针对八位确诊患者曾去过的场所，如上述社区中心和酒吧，以及确诊医护工作者就职的布莱顿的两家全科诊所，也已进行了隔离或关闭处理。
Eight sites visited by confirmed patients, such as the above-mentioned community centres and bars, as well as two general practice clinics in Brighton where confirmed health-care workers are working, have also been quarantined or closed.
截至当地时间10日下午2点，英国已对1114人进行了病毒检测。
Britain had tested 1,114 people for the virus by 2: 00 p.m. local time yesterday.
确诊病例陡增的法国也正在对6名与感染者有过近距离接触的英国公民隔离观察，为预防起见，还关闭了9岁感染者去过的两所当地学校。
France, which has seen a sharp rise in confirmed cases, is also keeping six British citizens in close contact with the infected and, as a precaution, has closed two local schools visited by infected nine-year-olds.
不过，英国卫生部长汉考克仍强调，宣布严重威胁只是一种预防措施，有关公众风险的临床建议仍处于“中等”水平。
However, British Health Minister Mark Hancock stressed that declaring a serious threat was only a precautionary measure and that clinical advice on public risks remained at "moderate" level.
1月22日，英国卫生部门曾将新冠病毒的风险程度从“很低”调高至“低”，并在世卫组织宣布新冠病毒疫情为国际关注的突发公共卫生事件后，将风险程度再次调高至“中等”。
On January 22, British health authorities raised the risk of the new crown virus from "very low" to "low" and raised it again to "medium" after the WHO declared it a public health emergency of international concern.
那么，这位“三号患者”究竟是不是一位“超级传播者”呢？英国卡迪夫大学传染病专家弗里德曼博士（Andrew Freedman）认为，“疫情的出现并不让人意外，但这个病例的确将病毒传染给了较大数量的接触者，可以被称为超级传播者。
So is the "No.3" a "super communicator," argues Andrew Freedman, an infectious diseases specialist at Cardiff University in the UK: "The outbreak is not surprising, but it does spread the virus to a larger number of people who are in contact and can be called super-disseminators."
”“超级传播者”是流行病学术语，指的是一名具有极高传染性的带病者，其比正常带病者更容易传染他人，而导致疫情大规模暴发。
"Super Communicator" is an epidemiological term for a person with a highly infectious disease who is more likely to infect others than normal carriers, leading to large-scale outbreaks.
目前，对于“超级传播者”没有统一的定义标准，取决于流行病的不同属性。
At present, there is no uniform definition of "super communicator," depending on the characteristics of the epidemic.
部分“超级传播”案例会体现出典型的80/20法则，即20％的感染者导致80%的疫情传播。
Some cases of "super-transmission" reflect the classic 80 / 20 rule that 20% of those infected cause 80% of the disease to spread.
2003年流行病学家曾认为将SARS病毒传播给8人以上，就可被归类为“超级传播者”。
In 2003, epidemiologists thought that spreading the SARS virus to more than eight people could be classified as "super-disseminators."
美国疾控中心（CDC）则在分析了5个“超级传播”案例后指出，这类带病者往往将病毒传染给了10人以上。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), which analyses five cases of "super-transmission," notes that people with the disease often transmit the virus to more than 10 people.
在2015年的中东呼吸综合征（MERS）疫情中，还曾出现过一家医院的一位病人传染82人的案例。
In the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) epidemic in 2015, there was also a case of a hospital in which 82 people were infected by a patient.
而在西非暴发的埃博拉疫情中，也有多数病例（61%）是被一小拨感染患者（3%）传染的。
In the case of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the majority of cases (61 per cent) were transmitted by a small number of infected persons (3 per cent).
不过，在美国宾夕法尼亚州立大学传染病研究中心主任麦格劳（Elizabeth McGraw）看来，认定某患者是否为“超级传播者”，需要考虑的因素很复杂。
But Elizabeth McGraw, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research at Pennsylvania State University, sees the factors involved in determining whether a patient is a "super-communicator."
麦格劳30日在解释性新闻网站The Conversation上发文称，定义“超级传播者”不能单单依靠其传染的人数来做判断，还要考虑病原体及疾病的作用方式，患者所处的环境及其在有限时间内的活动等。
"Defining a" super communicator "cannot be based solely on the number of people it infects, but must also consider the pathogen and how the disease works, the patient's environment and his or her activities over a limited period of time, McGraw said in a statement posted on The Conversation, an explanatory news site.
一般来说，商务旅行者、店铺老板、医护人员等更易传播病毒。
In general, business travellers, shop owners, health care workers, etc. are more likely to spread the virus.
麦格劳还指出，高免疫力以及免疫能力较弱的人都可能成为“超级传播者”。
People with high immunity and weak immunity can be "super communicators," McGraw said.
前者不会产生明显症状，不会感到不适，因此可能会继续日常生活，无意中造成大面积传染；后者体内所复制的病毒则较常人更多，即使减少日常活动，也很容易传染给身边更多人。
The former does not produce obvious symptoms and does not feel unwell, and therefore may continue to live in daily life, unintentionally causing widespread infection; the latter has more copies of the virus in the body than normal people, and can easily infect more people around them even if their daily activities are reduced.
世卫组织：需严格防控针对英法出现的最新疫情动向，世卫组织总干事谭德塞10日已在记者会上指出，从未到过中国的“人传人”病例正在欧洲出现。
WHO: Strict control of the latest developments in the Franco-British epidemic, WHO Director-General Theresa Tanner said at a press conference on Monday that "human-to-human" cases that have never been to China are emerging in Europe.
他说，“这些病例可能会是足以燎原的星星之火（the spark that becomes a bigger fire），但目前还只是星星之火。
"These cases could be the sparks that could start a fire," he said. "But it's just a spark."
我们的目标仍是有效控制（疫情）。
Our goal remains effective control.
”世卫组织突发卫生事件规划执行主任迈克尔·瑞恩（Michael Ryan）则指出，尽管防疫形势严峻，但尚无证据证明国际上出现“超级传播者”，人们应该正常生活，不能完全将一切活动暂停，但要用风险管理的手段防控风险。
Michael Ryan, WHO's executive director of health emergency planning, notes that, despite the severity of the epidemic, there is no evidence of an international "super-communicator," and that people should live normal lives and not suspend all activities entirely, but use risk management to control risks.
从未到过中国的“人传人”病例的确值得警惕。
The "person-to-person" cases that have never been to China are indeed alarming.
根据世卫组织11日发布的情况报告，截至10日白天，已有24个国家发现新冠病毒确诊病例，共计319人。
According to a WHO situation report released on the 11th, as of the 10th day, 24 countries, a total of 319 new cases of the virus have been found.
界面新闻经梳理后发现，在这319人中，有16人（5%）未到过中国、但有其他国家的旅行史，还有51人（16%）是在本土被感染。
After combing the interface news, it was found that 16 (5 per cent) of the 319 had not been to China but had a history of travel from other countries, while 51 (16 per cent) had been infected at home.
右侧为旅行暴露史，从上至下分别为无旅行史、国际运输（指“钻石公主号”邮轮）、中国以外的国家、仍待调查、中国（地点未知）、中国湖北省外、中国湖北省 来源：WHO其中，韩国、德国、新加坡在本土感染的病例较多，且各有特点。
On the right is a history of travel exposure, from top to bottom with no travel history, international transportation (referring to Princess Diamond), countries outside China, still to be investigated, China (location unknown), outside Hubei Province, China, and Hubei Province, China.
韩国的这类患者多数都曾接触过有武汉旅行史的感染者，与后者多为亲属关系。
Most of these patients in South Korea have had contact with Wuhan travel history, with the latter are mostly relatives.
其中，第6例患者在接触了有武汉旅行史的确诊病例后，似乎又将病毒传染给了自己的两位亲属，被认为可能构成了三代传播。
The sixth case appeared to have transmitted the virus to two of her relatives after being exposed to a confirmed case of Wuhan travel history, and is believed to have constituted three generations of transmission.
德国在本土感染的病例则均与巴伐利亚州的一家企业有关。
Cases of indigenous infection in Germany have been linked to a business in Bavaria.
1月27日，该国确诊了首例病例，患者是被此前一周访问德国的一名中国女同事所传染，是首次在欧洲境内出现的“人传人”病例。
On 27 January, the country confirmed the first case of human-to-human transmission in Europe after being infected by a female Chinese colleague who visited Germany the previous week.
在此之后，该企业共有12位员工或员工家属确诊。
A total of 12 employees or their families were diagnosed after that date.
新加坡此类病例的分布则更广。
Singapore has a much wider distribution of such cases.
从其政府网站每日更新的病例信息来看，该国自2月4日起无中国旅行史的确诊病例数量开始陡增，主要与中药行“永泰行”以及君悦酒店举行的上述会议有关。
A daily update of case information on its government website shows that the number of confirmed cases with no Chinese travel history has risen sharply since February 4, mainly in connection with the Yongtai Line, the Chinese medicine company, and the above-mentioned meeting at the Grand Hyatt Hotel.
据了解，永泰行此前曾接待过中国旅行团，4日该店有两名员工确诊，其中一名员工的家政工人以及曾前往该店的一名导游也在当天确诊。
It is understood that Yongtai had previously received a Chinese tour group, the store was diagnosed by two employees on the 4th, one of the staff's domestic workers and a tour guide who had gone to the store was also confirmed the same day.
截至10日白天，与永泰行有关的确诊病例已达9例。
As at the end of the day, 9 cases of Yongtai had been confirmed.
新加坡中药行“永泰行” 来源：联合早报好在仍有好消息传来。
Singapore Chinese medicine company "Yongtai Travel" source: Lianhe Zaobao good news is still coming.
周二，英国疑似“超级传播者”沃尔什发表声明说，自己已经完全康复。
Britain's suspected "super communicator," Walsh, issued a statement Tuesday saying he was fully recovered.
他感谢了朋友、家人与同事，也希望媒体能够尊重他们的隐私。
He thanked his friends, family and colleagues and hoped that the media would respect their privacy.
“我想谢谢NHS的悉心帮助和照料，”沃尔什说，“我现在已经完全康复，而我的心将与所有感染了新冠病毒的人同在。
"I want to thank the NHS for its kind help and care," Walsh said. "I am now fully recovered and my heart is with all those infected with the new crown virus.
”。
"
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
1人致三国11人感染，英国疑似“超级传播者”有何特点？。
One person infects 11 people in three countries. What are the characteristics of a suspected "super-communicator" in Britain?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "1人致三国11人感染，英国疑似“超级传播者”有何特点？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; 1 person infected with 11 people in the three countries; and what features does Britain's suspected "super communicator" have?
var msg_desc = "周二，英国疑似“超级传播者”沃尔什发表声明说，自己已经完全康复。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Tuesday, Britain's suspected "super communicator," Walsh, said in a statement that he had fully recovered.
他感谢了朋友、家人与同事，也希望媒体能够尊重他们的隐私。
He thanked his friends, family and colleagues and hoped that the media would respect their privacy.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
