核酸检测“假阴性”，诊疗方案调整了/* declared */。
Nucleic acid test "false negative," diagnosis and treatment programme adjusted / * declared * /.
核酸检测“假阴性”，诊疗方案调整了<br>。
RNA was found to be "false-negative," and its diagnosis and treatment regimen was AT & ltd; br & gt;
| title       = 核酸检测“假阴性”，诊疗方案调整了。
RNA testing is "false-negative," and diagnostic protocols have been adjusted.
核酸检测“假阴性”，诊疗方案调整了。
Nucleic acid detection "false negative", the diagnosis and treatment program has been adjusted.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 胡丹萍 汤琪 罗梓晗 实习生 刘昱秀家住武汉市青山区的吴娟从来没有这样期待父亲能拿到一个核酸检测阳性的结果。
Hu Danping Tang Qi Luo Han intern Liu Yu-xiu living in the Qingshan area of Wuhan city Wu Juan never expected his father to get a nucleic acid positive result.
从1月26日出现乏力、咳嗽等症状以来，吴娟父亲一直在等待一个明确的诊断——如果没有确诊新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎（以下简称“新冠肺炎”），他就无法收治入院。
Since the onset of fatigue and cough on January 26, Wu Juan's father has been waiting for a clear diagnosis that he would not be admitted to hospital without pneumonia to confirm a new coronavirus infection.
因为发烧反复，吴娟父亲已经全身无力，站不住了。
Because of the fever repeatedly, Wu Juan's father has been weak, unable to stand.
吴娟一家面临的难题并非个例，一直作为新冠肺炎确诊“金标准”的病毒核酸检测在实践中出现了假阴性的情况。
Wu Juan's family is not alone, has been diagnosed as the "gold standard" of new crown pneumonia virus nucleic acid testing in practice appeared false negative situation.
华中科技大学公共卫生学院副院长徐顺清2月9日晚间在湖北省的新闻发布会上表示，新型冠状病毒侵害的部位主要是肺部，所以用核酸检测存在一定的假阴性，也就是有一部分病人没有检测出来，就是漏诊，这样可能造成一些传染源没有真正地被识别出来，有扩大的风险。
Xu Shunqing, vice-dean of the School of Public Health of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, told a news conference in Hubei province on the evening of February 9 that the new coronavirus is mainly in the lungs.
但同时，要在最短时间内筛查出确诊患者，再进行集中收治，这对于仍处于高发期的疫情来说至关重要。
At the same time, however, screening for confirmed patients in the shortest possible time for centralized treatment is critical for an epidemic that is still at its peak.
目前，核酸检测仍扮演着确诊过程中非常重要的一环。
At present, nucleic acid detection is still playing a very important role in the diagnosis process.
参与过2003年SARS疫情防控的北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生此前在接受澎湃新闻时表示，能够通过核酸检测尽快确诊新冠肺炎，这是相对于2003年的防控来说更加有利的条件。
Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Beijing Concorde Hospital, which helped prevent and control the 2003 SARS outbreak, told the roaring news that it would be more advantageous to confirm pneumonia by nucleic acid tests as soon as possible than in 2003.
与此同时，随着国家诊疗方案的调整和诸多医学专家的重视，核酸检测假阴性给确诊带来的漏洞正在收缩。
At the same time, with the adjustment of the national diagnosis and treatment programme and the attention of many medical experts, the loopholes caused by false-negative nucleic acid testing are shrinking.
“这个问题发现以后，国家卫健委试行第五版的新冠肺炎诊疗方案开始把CT、临床作为依据，现在病情的判断不仅仅是核酸检测阳性的出现，现在还有临床的标准，连续三天没有发热，CT影像学有改善，这三个方面结合起来。
"After the discovery of the problem, the National Fitness and Health Commission began to test the fifth edition of the new crown pneumonia diagnosis and treatment program based on CT, clinical basis, now not only the emergence of positive nucleic acid testing, but also the clinical standards, no fever for three consecutive days, CT imaging improved, these three aspects combined.
”徐顺清2月9日晚间说。
"Xu Shunqing said late February 9.
11日中午，吴娟诉澎湃新闻，父亲10日一早已被收治到武汉青山区集中隔离点。
At noon on the 11th, Wu Juanying told the news that his father had already been admitted to Qingshan District, Wuhan, on the 10th.
她们仍在等待父亲第二次核酸检测的结果。
They are still waiting for the results of their father's second nucleic acid test.
因为隔离点医疗条件有限，父亲住进隔离点后每天依旧要去往武汉市第九医院打针。
Due to the limited medical conditions at the quarantine site, the father still had to go to Wuhan Ninth Hospital to get the injection every day.
确诊必过的一扇“门”从武汉“封城”开始，吴娟才意识到这场疫情的严重性。
Diagnosis must go through a "door" from Wuhan "closed the city", Wu Juan just realized the severity of the epidemic.
但她更万万没想到，疫情的阴霾会降临在她的家庭。
But she did not expect that the haze of the epidemic would befall her family.
1月26日，正月初二，吴娟的父亲出现了腰部酸痛、浑身乏力、咳嗽等症状。
January 26, the second day of the first month, Wu Juan's father appeared waist ache, fatigue, cough and other symptoms.
此时，距离武汉 “封城”才刚刚过去3天。
At this point, Wuhan from the "closure" just past three days.
为了帮父亲买消炎药，吴娟跑遍家附近的药店，都没有买到，连治疗流感的奥司他韦也都卖完了。
To help her father buy anti-inflammatory drugs, Wu Juan ran around the house nearby pharmacies, not even the treatment of influenza oseltamivir sold out.
无奈之下，她只好买了10盒儿童版的奥司他韦给71岁的父亲服用。
She had to buy 10 boxes of the children's version of oseltamivir for her 71-year-old father.
此时，父亲还是很倔强。
At this point, the father is still very stubborn.
他始终认为自己的症状是因为开窗透气时睡着导致的着凉而已。
He had always attributed his symptoms to a cold caused by falling asleep when the window was ventilated.
一直到2月3日，父亲都没吃药，身体不适愈发严重。
He did not take any medicine until February 3, and his condition became worse.
2月4日一早，父亲乏力到不愿起床，脸色发红，测量体温是37.4°C，去青山区的一个社区门诊做了血常规检测后发现，他的白细胞、淋巴细胞的比例都比较低，还伴随发热，社区医院建议送至华润武钢总医院做CT检查。
On the morning of February 4, his father was too weak to get up, his face flushed, his temperature measured 37.4 ° C, and a routine blood test at a community clinic in Qingshan District revealed a low proportion of leukocytes and lymphocytes, accompanied by fever.
当天，CT诊断结果为双肺感染性病变，医生认为是病毒性肺炎，开了奥司他韦、莲花清瘟颗粒，建议他回家隔离观察，如果高烧至38.5°C以上，再到医院就诊。
On the same day, the CT diagnosis of bilateral lung infectious disease, doctors believe that it is viral pneumonia, opened oseltamivir, lotus rinse rinderpest granules, he is recommended to go home to observe isolation, if the fever reaches above 38.5 ° C, then to the hospital.
尽管有了这样的CT检查诊断结果，但按当时国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案（试行第四版）》规定，确诊病例需有“呼吸道标本或血液标本行实时荧光RT-PCR检测新型冠状病毒核酸阳性”，简单来说，就是核酸检测结果显示为阳性。
Despite these CT findings, according to the then National Health Commission's "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme (Trial Version 4)," confirmed cases require "real-time fluorescence RT-PCR testing of a new coronavirus nucleic acid positive in a respiratory specimen or blood specimen." In simple terms, nucleic acid test results are positive.
这成为吴娟父亲能否确诊的一扇必须打开的“大门”。
This became Wu Juan father whether can diagnose a must open a "gate".
“假阴性”疑云2月4日晚，吴娟父亲高烧到39°C。
"False negative" suspicion of February 4 night, Wu Juan's father high fever to 39 ° C.
吴娟赶紧送父亲到武钢总医院看病，尽管该医院不是定点医院，但离家比较近。
Wu Juan rushed her father to Wu Gang General Hospital to see a doctor, although the hospital is not a designated hospital, but closer to home.
医生开了10天的药，只能在门诊输液。
The doctor prescribed the medicine for 10 days, only in the outpatient infusion.
好在当晚，医生告知第二天一早可以到医院来做核酸检测，吴娟才觉得又有了希望。
Fortunately, the doctor told the next morning to go to the hospital for a nucleic acid test, Wu Juan felt hopeful again.
然而，第二天，当他们准时赶到武钢总医院后，发热门诊医生说当天只有20个核酸检测试剂，在登记名单上没有吴娟父亲的名字，当日的试剂已用完，要再等一天才能到医院检测。
However, the next day, when they arrived at WISCO General Hospital on time, the fever clinic doctor said there were only 20 reagents for nucleic acid testing that day.
因为发烧反复，吴娟父亲全身无力站不住，只能蹲在医院的走廊上休息。
Because of the fever repeatedly, Wu Juan's father can not stand all over, can only squat in the corridor of the hospital rest.
吴娟说，当天，正好有领导到武钢总医院巡查疫情防控工作，看到她父亲缩蹲在医院走廊，就上前了解情况，随后安排老人家走“绿色通道”，总算做到了确诊的关键一步——核酸检测。
Wu Juan said that on that day, the leadership to Wugang General Hospital inspection epidemic prevention and control work, to see her father squatting in the hospital corridor, and then arranged for the elderly to take the "Green Channel," finally achieved the key step of diagnosis - nucleic acid testing.
只有核酸检测阳性，才算确诊，父亲才有可能、有资格、有床位入院治疗。
Only if the nucleic acid test is positive is the diagnosis made possible, eligible and bed-bound hospitalization of the father possible.
“但如果不是阳性呢？”吴娟心里还是隐隐担忧。
"But if not the masculine?" Wu Juan's heart is still vaguely worried.
事实上，她的担忧并非空穴来风。
In fact, her fears were not groundless.
针对新冠肺炎病毒核酸检测假阴性的问题陆续浮出水面。
The problem of false-negative detection of Nucleic Acid (Nucleic Acid) of Newcap Pneumonia has surfaced.
2月5日晚间，中国工程院副院长、中国医学科学院院长王辰做客央视《新闻1+1》时表示，并不是所有的病患都能检测出核酸阳性，对于真是新型冠状病毒感染的病人，也不过只有30%至50%的阳性率。
Not all patients tested positive for nucleic acid (Nucleic Acid), and only 30 to 50 percent of patients who are truly infected with coronavirus, said Wang Chen, vice president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and vice-president of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
通过采集疑似病例咽拭子的办法，还是有很多假阴性。
By collecting swabs from suspected cases, there are still a lot of false negatives.
2月6日晚，引起全网关注的武汉市中心医院眼科医院李文亮病危，在经过数小时抢救后不幸去世。
Feb. 6 evening, Wuhan City Central Hospital Eye Hospital, Li Wenliang critically ill, after several hours of rescue after the tragic death.
根据李文亮生前发布的微博显示，他在经过三次核酸检测之后才被正式确诊，前面两次核酸检测结果都为阴性。
According to microblogs released by Li Wenliang, he was not officially diagnosed until after three nucleic acid tests, both negative.
2月7日中午，吴娟父亲的第一次核酸检测结果出炉，显示为阴性。
At noon on February 7, Wu Juan's father's first nucleic acid test results, showing negative.
但此时，父亲仍高烧不退，意识也有些模糊了。
But at this time, the father is still high fever, consciousness is also a bit fuzzy.
当天下午，她的父亲再次去武钢总医院检测了血常规、CT检查，CT影像诊断较第一次显示的病情更加严重了。
That afternoon, her father went to WISCO General Hospital for a blood test, CT imaging diagnosis than the first show of the disease more serious.
医生建议吴娟的父亲到九医院复查，因为武钢总医院不属于定点医院，不能判定新冠肺炎假阴性，并给她开了转院通知书。
The doctor advised Wu Juan's father to go to nine hospitals to review, because Wugang General Hospital is not a designated hospital, can not determine the new crown pneumonia false negative, and issued her a transfer notice.
2月8日上午，吴娟父亲去了武汉市第九医院，带着之前的检测结果给医生看，不过还得先在门诊输液等待。
On the morning of February 8, Wu Juan's father went to Wuhan Ninth Hospital to show the doctor the results of the previous test, but had to wait for the infusion in the clinic.
社区也在努力。
The community is working on it.
2月9日早上，在接到社区工作人员电话通知后，吴娟带着父亲到第九医院做了第二次核酸检测，大概两到三天后可以出结果。
On the morning of February 9, after receiving a telephone call from community workers, Wu Juan and her father went to the ninth hospital for a second nucleic acid test, which should yield results in about two to three days.
她说自己甚至有些期待父亲核酸检测结果是阳性，那样才能够尽快住院治疗。
She said she even expected her father to be tested positive for nucleic acid so he could be hospitalized as soon as possible.
上海第一批支援湖北医疗队专家组组长周新在接受澎湃新闻采访时也表示，假阴性还涉及到许多方面，包括不同人呼吸道敏感性差异、采样方式差异以及不同试剂盒公司生产的差异，种种原因都可能造成假阴性的出现。
In a roaring interview with reporters, Zhou Xin, head of Shanghai's first support team for the Hubei medical team, said false negatives also involved many aspects, including differences in respiratory sensitivity among different people, differences in sampling methods and differences in production by different kit companies, all of which could result in false negatives.
“补充方案”来了核酸检测假阴性的出现，也让针对新冠肺炎的诊疗方案作出微调。
The "Supplementary Program" has brought false-negative nucleic acid testing and fine-tuned the diagnosis and treatment of New Crown Pneumonia.
疫情发生后，国家层面对《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》不断更新，截止2月5日发布了试行第五版。
After the outbreak, the "New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme" was continuously updated at the national level, and a fifth edition of the trial was released on February 5.
这一版的诊疗方案在病例诊断上，将湖北省和湖北省以外其他省份进行了区别对待。
This version of the diagnosis and treatment programme in the case of diagnosis, Hubei Province and other provinces other than Hubei Province made a difference.
湖北以外其他省份仍然分为“疑似病例”和“确诊病例”两类。
Other provinces outside Hubei are still divided into "suspected cases" and "confirmed cases."
但是湖北省增加“临床诊断”分类。
But Hubei province added "clinical diagnosis" classification.
“疑似病例”标准修改为：无论有没有流行病学史，只要符合“发热和/或呼吸道症状”和“发病早期白细胞总数正常或降低，或淋巴细胞计数减少”这2条临床表现，便可考虑为疑似病例。
The "suspected case" criterion has been revised to refer to suspected cases, with or without an epidemiological history, provided that the 2 clinical manifestations of "fever and / or respiratory symptoms" and "normal or decreased leukocyte count in the early stages of onset, or reduced lymphocyte count" are met.
相当于疑似病例标准放宽了。
The standard for suspected cases has been relaxed.
疑似病例具有肺炎影像学特征者，为临床诊断病例。
Suspected cases with imaging features of pneumonia are clinically diagnosed.
确诊病例诊断标准没变。
Diagnostic criteria for confirmed cases remain unchanged.
核酸检测假阴性导致的漏诊问题也正引起专家的重视。
The problem of missing diagnosis caused by false negative nucleic acid detection is also attracting the attention of experts.
2月9日晚间，在湖北举行的新闻发布会上，华中科技大学公共卫生学院副院长徐顺清表示，新型冠状病毒侵害的部位主要是肺部，所以用核酸检测存在一定的假阴性，也就是有一部分病人没有检测出来，就是漏诊，这样可能造成一些传染源没有真正的被识别出来，有扩大的风险。
In the evening of February 9, Xu Shunqing, vice-dean of the School of Public Health of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, said at a press conference in Hubei Province that the new coronavirus was mainly in the lungs.
徐顺清认为，这个问题发现以后，试行第五版的诊疗方案把CT检测等临床症状作为依据，现在病情的判断不仅仅是核酸检测阳性的出现，还有临床的标准，连续三天没有发热，CT影像学有改善，这三个方面结合起来。
Xu Shunqing believes that after the discovery of this problem, the trial of the fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment plan based on clinical symptoms such as CT testing, now not only the emergence of positive nucleic acid testing, but also clinical standards, no fever for three consecutive days, CT imaging improved, these three aspects combined.
武汉人李青一家是上述第五版诊疗方案的受益者。
Wuhan Li Qing family is the above-mentioned fifth edition of the diagnosis and treatment programme beneficiaries.
2月3日，李青的公公婆婆和奶奶三人一起到华中科技大学附属同济医院进行核酸检测，三人的核酸检测结果显示，婆婆和奶奶为核酸阳性，确诊新冠肺炎后得以住院治疗。
On February 3, Li Qing's mother-in-law and grandmother together went to the Tongji Hospital affiliated with the Central University of Science and Technology for nucleic acid testing.
然而，通过CT检测结果显示，公公才是三人中肺部感染最严重的，而且有扩散，但是核酸检测结果显示阴性，医生让他重新排队做核酸检测。
However, CT findings showed that father-in-law was the most serious lung infection among the three and showed a spread, but negative nucleic acid testing results showed that he was requeued for a nucleic acid test.
李青告诉澎湃新闻，公公后来因为出现了较为严重的感染症状，以临床诊断标准为判断，于2月7日获得了住院治疗的机会。
Li told Peng Pai News that he was admitted to hospital on 7 February, judging by the clinical criteria, as a result of a more serious infection.
对于湖北省的新冠肺炎患者来说，如果未出现严重症状，为了降低传染风险，试行第五版诊疗方案要求各级各类医疗机构的医务人员发现符合病例定义的疑似病和临床诊断病例后，应当立即进行隔离治疗。
In order to reduce the risk of infection in patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia in Hubei Province, the experimental fifth edition of the programme requires medical personnel from all levels and categories of medical institutions to detect suspected and clinically diagnosed cases that meet the case definition and should undergo immediate isolation treatment.
疑似病例和临床诊断病例要单间隔离，对疑似病例和临床诊断病例要尽快采集标本进行病原学检测。
Suspected cases and clinically diagnosed cases should be isolated in isolation. Samples should be collected as soon as possible for etiological examination of suspected cases and clinical diagnosis cases.
出院标准不再单一武汉人刘桐70岁的母亲就是因为两次核酸检测结果均为阴性，无法确诊，但有一定的肺部感染症状而住进了隔离病房。
No longer a single Wuhan Liu Tong 70-year-old mother is due to two negative nucleic acid test results, can not be diagnosed, but there are certain symptoms of lung infection and live in the isolation ward.
他的母亲发病是在1月23日。
His mother became ill on January 23.
成为疑似病例之后，刘桐母亲在武汉市第八医院的病房隔离。
After becoming a suspected case, Liu Tong's mother was quarantined in the ward of Wuhan's Eighth Hospital.
从1月26日到现在，她一共做了两次核酸检测，医院并未通知他结果。
Since January 26, she has had two nucleic acid tests and the hospital has not informed him of the results.
但医院公告显示，48小时内未通知就是阴性，他就默认母亲的结果也是阴性。
But the hospital announcement showed that if he was negative within 48 hours, he acquiesced in his mother's negative results.
刘桐母亲此前的CT检查结果就显示双肺感染。
Liu Tong's mother's previous CT findings showed two-lung infection.
让他较为担心的是，由于不是确诊患者，母亲所住的并非是单人间的隔离病房，而是六人间，里面都是像母亲这样无法确诊的人。
What worried him more was that, since she was not a confirmed patient, the mother lived not in an isolation ward with a single room, but in six rooms filled with people like his mother who could not be diagnosed.
刘桐担忧，如果存在假阴性的情况，会不会出现交叉感染。
Liu expressed concern that if there were false negative cases, there would be cross-infection.
好在，他的母亲当前身体状况趋于稳定，但是疫情还在高发期，陈桐无法确认母亲是否可以出院，是否确定不是新冠肺炎患者、不具备传染性。
Thankfully, his mother's health is now stable, but the outbreak is still high, and Chen is unable to confirm whether the mother can be discharged from the hospital, or whether she is not a New Crown Pneumonia patient and is not infectious.
“只能再待几天看看了。
"Only a few more days to see.
”他说。
'he said.
对于痊愈出院的患者来说，核酸检测同样是必经的一道程序。
Nucleic acid testing is also a necessary procedure for patients who have recovered from hospital.
假阴性的困扰同样存在。
False-negative problems also exist.
在试行第四版以及之前的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》中，新冠肺炎患者解除隔离和出院标准就是体温恢复正常3天以上、呼吸道症状明显好转、连续两次呼吸道病原核酸检测阴性（采样时间间隔至少1天），可解除隔离出院或根据病情转至相应科室治疗其他疾病。
In the 4th edition and in the previous Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Coronavirus Infection, the release from isolation and discharge of patients with coronavirus is based on a return to normal body temperature for more than three days, significant improvement in respiratory symptoms, negative detection of two successive RNA tests (with a minimum one-day interval).
如果出现连续两次给感染者做核酸检测结果都是假阴性，那将影响对病愈患者的判定。
If two successive tests of an infected person's nucleic acid are false-negative, that will affect the diagnosis of the patient.
相应的补充出现在了试行第五版的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》中。
The corresponding supplement appears in the trial version 5 of the "New Coronavirus Infection of Pneumonia Diagnosis and Treatment Program."
该方案对出院标准要求有所增加，需从核酸检测、临床症状、肺部的影像学三个方面来判断是否可以出院。
The discharge standard of the program has been increased, the need for nucleic acid testing, clinical symptoms, lung imaging to determine whether or not can be discharged.
周新告诉澎湃新闻，普遍来讲，患者如果符合核酸检测两次阴性，基本上是可以安全地出院。
Zhou told Peng Pai News, generally speaking, if the patient meets the nucleic acid test twice negative, basically can be discharged safely.
出院以后再回家居家隔离两周，会更加科学和安全。
It will be more scientific and safe to go home for two weeks after discharge from hospital.
“要减少假阴性，采样就要准确，采样的方法要正确。
"To reduce false negatives, sampling should be accurate and sampling should be done correctly.
”周新表示，对于采样的医护人员来说，要经过规范的培训。
Zhou Xinxin said that for the sampled health-care workers, there had to be standardized training.
患者自行咳嗽咳出来的痰液可以做采样，灌洗液也可以做核酸的检测，如果能够取到深部的呼吸道的标本，它的敏感性和特异性就非常高。
The sputum that the patient coughs oneself coughs out can do sampling, irrigation liquid also can do nucleic acid test, if can take the specimen of deep respiratory tract, its sensitivity and specificity is very high.
对大部分患者来讲，是能够准确检查出来的。
For most patients, it is possible to detect them accurately.
参与过2003年SARS疫情防控的北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生此前在接受澎湃新闻时坦言，能够通过核酸检测尽快确诊新冠肺炎，这是相对于2003年的防控来说更加有利的条件。
Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Beijing Concorde Hospital, which helped prevent and control the 2003 SARS outbreak, admitted earlier in the news that he was able to confirm pneumonia by nucleic acid tests as soon as possible, a more favourable condition than in 2003.
吴娟诉澎湃新闻，2月10日一早，父亲已被收治到武汉青山区集中隔离点。
Wu Juanpai news, February 10, early in the morning, my father has been admitted to Wuhan Qingshan concentrated isolation point.
她们仍在等待父亲第二次核酸检测的结果。
They are still waiting for the results of their father's second nucleic acid test.
（吴娟、李青、刘桐为化名，实习生闫彩琪亦对此文有贡献。
(Wu Juan, Li Qing, Liu Tong as aliases, Yan-cai Yan-qi intern also contributed to this article.
）本期编辑 常琛推荐阅读    。
This issue of the editor Chang Chen recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
核酸检测“假阴性”，诊疗方案调整了。
Nucleic acid detection "false negative", the diagnosis and treatment program has been adjusted.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
