湖北即将断粮的3亿只鸡。
Hubei is about to lose grain 300 million chickens.
杨璐 李晓洁。
Lu Yang Xiaojie.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
据湖北省家禽业协会称，受封城影响，该省3亿多只鸡面临断粮。
According to the Hubei poultry association, more than 300 million chickens in the province face food shortages due to the blockade.
当地家禽业协会在一封信中称，由于进出湖北的交通运输已经中断，家禽饲料及用于生产饲料的原材料供应基本瘫痪，呼吁国有生产企业紧急支援。
A letter from the local poultry association called on state-owned production companies to provide emergency support after transportation to and from Hubei was disrupted and poultry feed and the raw materials used to produce it were basically paralysed.
人们在网络上热议村支书们抗击疫情的硬核“喊话”和土味标语时，也要看到蜿蜒在田间地头的道路，是保证社会系统运转的一部分。
While hotly debated on the Internet are hard-core "yells" and earthy slogans to fight the epidemic, the road winding through the fields is part of the social system.
最直观的联系，它关乎“菜篮子”的稳定和秩序，只有产得出、运得走、供得上，才能在当前疫情下尽量维持基层社会的运转，减少经济损失。
The most intuitive link, it is related to the "vegetable basket" stability and order, only the production, movement, supply, in order to maintain the grass-roots social functioning as far as possible under the current epidemic, to reduce economic losses.
记者 | 杨璐 李晓洁封路让饲料见底了周平是仙桃的一位货车司机，主要运送周边县城养鸡户的饲料，自己家也有个养鸡场。
Yang Lu Li Xiaojie sealed the road to the bottom. Zhou Ping is a trucker in Xiantao, mainly transporting poultry feed from neighbouring counties, and has a chicken farm at home.
1月30日，刚过完大年初五，他已经急得火烧眉毛。
On January 30th, just after the fifth anniversary of the beginning of the year, his eyebrows burned with eagerness.
周平与其他两三个养殖户被推举为代表，到政府去反映情况：因为农村封路，饲料再运不进来，鸡就要饿死了。
Zhou Ping and two or three other farmers were elected as representatives to the Government to reflect the situation: because the countryside closed the road, feed will not be brought in, the chicken will starve to death.
武汉在1月23日早上10点封城，湖北其他城市也紧接着封城，并且采取了交通管制的措施。
Wuhan was closed at 10 a.m. on January 23, followed by other cities in Hubei, and traffic control measures were taken.
在赤壁市，所有国、省、县道禁止车辆通行。
In Chibi, all state, provincial and county roads are closed to vehicular traffic.
城区三座桥梁继续实行交通管制（经批准的保供车辆、应急处突、防控通勤车辆除外），违反者处以200块到2000块钱的罚款，可以并处15天以下治安拘留。
Traffic control continues to be exercised at three bridges in the city (except for approved guaranteed vehicles, emergency services and control of commuter vehicles), which is punishable by a fine of between $200 and $2,000, and by up to 15 days of security detention.
除了政府发出的交通管制通知，那些如毛细血管一样联通各村庄到县城的小路，也被村民们设置了路障。
In addition to government traffic control notices, small roads that connect villages to county towns like capillaries have been blocked by villagers.
在赤壁乡下过年的果果告诉本刊记者：“从初一开始，去往各村口的道路都封了，有的用泥巴堆成土堆，有的用农用大卡拦在整个路上，还有的村设置了路障、栏杆之类。
"From the beginning of junior high school, the roads leading to the villages were blocked, some with mud, some with agricultural trucks, others with roadblocks, railing, and so on.
因为禁止车辆通行，大家出门只能靠走路和骑自行车，市里完全去不了，镇子上都没有人走，商铺、早点摊全都没开。
Because of the ban on vehicles, people have to walk and ride bicycles, the city can not go, no one left town, shops, breakfast all open.
”合理封路可以阻断新冠肺炎病毒的传播，但一些地方粗暴地挖断了路，给农业生产造成了障碍。
Reasonable road closures can block the spread of the new crown pneumonia virus, but in some places roads are roughly cut off, creating obstacles to agricultural production.
周平说：“正常情况下，养鸡户为了过春节，会储备从腊月二十四小年到正月初十的饲料。
Zhou Ping said: "Under normal circumstances, chicken farmers in order to celebrate the Spring Festival, will reserve from the end of the twenty-fourth to the first 10 months of the feed.
今年腊月二十八、二十九才听说武汉有疫情，大年初一突然封了路，没有人提前准备应对这个特殊情况的饲料。
Only on the 28th or 29th of this year, we heard that Wuhan had an epidemic situation. On the first day of the Lunar New Year, the road was suddenly closed.
”周平住的村子距离县城有10公里，距离武汉郊区更近，只有几公里，可两条路都堵死了，他的车没办法出去运饲料，其他的饲料车也进不来。
Zhou Ping lived about 10 kilometers from the county seat, only a few kilometers closer to the Wuhan suburb, but both roads were blocked, and his car could not get out to carry fodder and other forage trucks.
封路如果持续下去，损失很大。
If the closure continues, the damage will be great.
周平虽然不知道周边到底养了多少只鸡，可从饲料日常消耗算起来，数目巨大。
Although Zhou Ping does not know how many chickens around the end, can be calculated from the daily consumption of feed, the number is huge.
“一万只鸡每天要吃6包饲料，我日常每个月要给周边养鸡户运送1600吨饲料。
"Ten thousand chickens eat six packs of feed a day, and I ship 1,600 tons of feed each month to the surrounding chicken farmers.
像我这样的司机，我们县城周边还有十几个人在做。
Drivers like me have a dozen other people around our county.
“周平说。
"said Zhou Ping.
蛋鸡养殖只是一个微小案例，如果封路时间延长，很多类似的问题会陆续浮现。
Egg fowl farming is only a small case, if the closure time is extended, many similar problems will emerge.
湖北的小龙虾驰名全国，养殖户告诉本刊记者：“封路现在最大的影响是工人进出基地和饲料运送，好在现在这个时节饲料投喂量相对小，如果封路持续到2月底、3月初，对小龙虾养殖的影响就非常大了。
Hubei lobster well-known throughout the country, farmers told this print reporter: "Road closure is now the biggest impact of workers into and out of the base and feed delivery, fortunately at this time of the season feed volume relatively small, if the closure continued until the end of February and early March, the impact on crayfish farming is very large.
”疫情眼见着会让经济形势面临挑战，保障饲料的供应和物流系统，才能避免生猪、禽类等因饲料供应和销售受阻而大面积扑杀产生新的疫情，不要让事情变得更坏。
To prevent new outbreaks, such as hogs and poultry, from spreading because feed supplies and sales are blocked, don't let things get worse.
农村防疫的形势这种封路措施也随着疫情的传播，扩展到湖北省以外。
The situation of rural epidemic prevention this closure measures also spread beyond Hubei Province with the spread of the epidemic.
阜南是安徽人口最多的县，也是劳务输出的大县。
Funan is the most populous county in Anhui Province and a large county of labor export.
1月25日，本刊采访的朱寨镇停运了往县市发出的公交车和农用班车。
January 25, this print interview Zhuzhai town stopped to the county issued by the bus and agricultural bus.
1月26日，村与村之间通行的小路全部用泥土封住，每村只留下一条或者两条通往镇上的主干道，用来运送物资和应对特殊情况，比如有人生病，需要运出去。
On 26 January, the road between the village and the village was completely covered with earth and each village was left with only one or two main roads leading to the town to transport supplies and respond to special circumstances, such as illness, which required evacuation.
每个村在通往镇里的主路上设置卡点，一般是几辆车或者搭建简易帐篷，只允许本地车辆进入，一切外地车辆或者来拜年要进村的车辆都被劝返。
Each village has a checkpoint on the main road leading to the town, usually a few cars or makeshift tents, which are only allowed to enter by local vehicles. All non-local vehicles or vehicles coming to visit the village for the New Year are advised to return.
本村车辆进村需要登记和测体温，如果发现体温高的村民，卡点工作人员直接通知镇上的医护人员来做检查。
Our village vehicles enter the village to register and take temperature tests, if high-temperature villagers are found, card point staff directly to the town's medical staff for examination.
除了饲料运不进来，封路确实给农村群众的生活带来不便，随着疫情的持续，开始有人发微博抱怨。
In addition to feed can not be brought in, the closure of the rural people's lives do not bring inconvenience, as the epidemic continues, people began to complain Weibo.
本刊采访的陕西洋县的村民就因为去医院产检，想抄近路从其他村走，被挡了回来。
This print interviews the villagers of Shaanxi Yangxian because go to the hospital check-up, want to take a shortcut from other villages, was blocked back.
但是，封路确实迫在眉睫。
However, road closures are indeed imminent.
跟非典相比，这一次疫情对农村的威胁要严峻很多。
Compared with SARS, this time the threat to the countryside is much more severe.
非典大规模爆发在春节之后，疫情在城市之间流动，而这一次是在春运期间，全年中城乡流动最为频繁的阶段。
The SARS outbreak came after the Spring Festival, when the epidemic moved from city to city. This time, it was during the Spring Festival, the most frequent period of urban-rural mobility throughout the year.
1月26日的新闻发布会上，武汉市长周先旺表示，有500万人离开武汉，这其中有大量人口是务工返乡人员。
At a news conference on January 26, Wuhan city chief Zhou Xianwang said five million people had left Wuhan, including a large number of migrant workers returning home.
确诊病例高度回应了这个规律，安徽与湖北地理相近，安徽省疾控中心在1月25日召开发布会宣布，安徽的疫情呈现出“一快三高”的特点，即确诊病例增长快、农村占比高、中老年占比高、商业服务业人员和农民工占比高。
Anhui province is close to Hubei province, where the CDC announced on January 25 that the epidemic in Anhui province is characterized by a rapid increase in confirmed cases, a high proportion of cases in rural areas, a high proportion of middle-aged and elderly people, and a high proportion of commercial service workers and migrant workers.
跟城市相比，农村的防疫体系很脆弱。
Compared with the cities, the rural epidemic prevention system is very fragile.
截止2018年底，全国还有46个乡镇没有卫生院，有666个卫生院没有全科医生或者执业（助理）医师，1022个行政村没有卫生室，6903个卫生室没有合格的村医。
By the end of 2018, there were still 46 townships without health centres, 666 health centres without general practitioners or medical practitioners (assistants), 1,022 administrative villages without health rooms and 6,903 health rooms without qualified village doctors.
本刊采访的河南村医，每天在完全没有防护的情况下给隔离村民测两次体温，村民也没有防护能力，看病不戴口罩。
Henan village doctor interviewed in this print, every day in the complete absence of protection to isolate villagers twice temperature, villagers do not have the ability to protect themselves, see a doctor do not wear masks.
村医的女儿在大城市工作，带回家的口罩不够用，通过海外的朋友代购，快递现在却只能送到十几公里之外的县城。
The village doctor's daughter, who works in a big city and doesn't take home enough masks, buys them through friends overseas and now has to deliver them to county towns a dozen kilometers away.
“每个村都封了路，路况一天一个样，从村里走不到县城。
"Every village is sealed off and the roads are improving day by day. The county is not accessible from the village.
”村医的女儿说。
'said the village-doctor's daughter.
农村目前这种医疗、防疫体系和基础设施条件下，封路是成本最低，最为有效的手段。
Under the present medical treatment, epidemic prevention system and infrastructure in rural areas, road closure is the least costly and most effective means.
城市人从互联网上看到农民把巨大的土堆、农用卡车堵在路上，觉得不可思议，比如有网友留言疑问，为什么不用可移动的栅栏。
Urban people from the Internet to see farmers in the huge pile of dirt, agricultural trucks blocked in the road, feel strange, such as a netizen message, why not move the fence.
有过农村生活经验的人就会知道，农村有的是免费的土，用土堵路是典型的就地取材。
Those who have experience in rural life will know that the countryside has free soil, with soil blocking is a typical local material.
程存旺是中国人民大学农业与农村发展学院的博士，他既是农村问题的研究学者，同时创立农业科技有限公司，在北京、三亚等地有农场，从事农业实践。
Cheng, Ph.D., of the Institute of Agriculture and Rural Development at Renmin University of China, is both a research scholar on rural issues and a founder of Agricultural Technology Limited, which has farms and practices in Beijing, Sanya and other places.
每天跟农民和农村打交道，他说，网上那些土堆封路的照片背后其实有农民的灵活性。
Working with farmers and the countryside on a daily basis, he says, there's a farmer's flexibility behind the photos of the blockades on the Internet.
公司有人因为封村被困在了山东农村，那位同事跟村支书说一声必须得去上班了，村里先把路填上让他出村，然后再挖开。
Someone in the company was trapped in rural Shandong Province because of the closure of the village. The colleague told the village branch that he had to go to work.
让过还是不让过，不是硬性的规则，都有转圜的余地，这也是中国农村里的生态。
To let go or not to let go is not a hard rule, there is room to go round, which is also the ecology of rural China.
“菜篮子”不能断既然封路是有灵活性的，村民们得有意识在阻断疫情蔓延的同时，不能阻碍社会系统的运转。
"Basket" can not be broken since the closure of the road is flexible, villagers have to consciously block the spread of the epidemic while not impeding the functioning of the social system.
杨军（化名）是湖北省一家公司负责鸡蛋和饲料销售的副总，他最近一直发愁鸡蛋运输的障碍。
Yang Jun (not his real name), vice president of egg and feed sales at a company in Hubei province, has been worried recently about obstacles to egg shipments.
“就在前两天，我们公司从湖北下面一个县城往外运鸡蛋，到武汉差不多120公里的路程，鸡蛋搞了5次才把它搞出来。
"Just two days ago, our company shipped eggs from a county under Hubei Province to Wuhan about 120 kilometers away, eggs made five times to get it out.
我们用一辆车把鸡蛋运到路障边，车就不能走了，然后我们用人工把鸡蛋抬过土堆，换路障这一边的车再往外运。
We took the eggs to the roadblock in a car, the car couldn't go, and then we carried the eggs manually across the dirt, changing the vehicle on the roadblock and moving it out.
遇到路障，再人工抬鸡蛋过去，换一辆新车，反反复复搞了5次，耗费了大量的人力才把鸡蛋运到武汉的超市里去。
At the roadblock, manually lift the eggs to the past, a new car, do it again and again five times, took a lot of manpower to transport the eggs to the supermarket in Wuhan.
”杨军说。
"said Yang Jun.
敢于封村是因为农村自成循环单元，不用出村也能生活很长时间，可这些小单元同时也是整个社会运转的重要部分，那些如毛细血管一样连接各个村庄的道路，同时也是社会运转和循环的通路，“只许本村走不许外村过”的阻断会在疫情之外造成持续的影响。
They are also an important part of the functioning of society, the roads that connect villages like capillaries, and the way in which society operates and circulates. The blockage of "no village except through the village" can have a lasting impact outside the epidemic.
仙桃是湖北省内一个蛋鸡养殖基地，养殖户李强说：“仙桃80%的鸡蛋供应到湖南市场，也有一部分是直接卖到武汉的商超和农贸市场。
Xiantao is an egg-breeding base in Hubei Province. "Eighty percent of the eggs in Xiantao are supplied to the Hunan market, and some are sold directly to Shang Chao and farmers' markets in Wuhan," said Li Qiang, a farmer in Hubei Province.
按照正常情况，大年初三、初四，鸡蛋就开始往下面销售了，可今年突然就封了村，到现在为止，认识的养鸡户还没人卖出去鸡蛋。
According to the normal situation, on the third, fourth, eggs began to sell down, but this year suddenly closed the village, so far, known chicken farmers have not sold eggs.
”湖南的老客户不收湖北仙桃的鸡蛋，湖北省内的销售也阻碍重重。
Hunan's established customers don't collect eggs from Hubei Xiantao, and sales in Hubei province are also hampered.
李强说：“我的养鸡场通向村外的道路就被封住了，工人没办法来上班，鸡蛋也运不出去。
"The road from my chicken farm to the outside of the village is blocked, workers can't come to work and eggs can't go out," Li said.
”即便鸡蛋能运出村外，上高速需要通行证，为了保证救灾救援，现在通行证只发给救援车辆，除了它们驶过，高速上根本就没有车。
Even if the eggs can be shipped out of the village at high speeds, permits are now issued only to rescue vehicles, and there are no cars on the highway except for them.
不走高速，就要穿过一个个村庄，像杨军的公司那样120公里，要翻过5个路障，调动5段的车辆，普通养殖户没有这样的资源。
Without high-speed access, it would take villages 120 kilometres like Yang's company to cross five roadblocks and move five sections of vehicles, which ordinary farmers do not have.
这种封路让其他货物运输也基本上处于瘫痪状态，湖北货车驿站的站长告诉本刊记者：“因为封村，司机和车子都出不来，有些兄弟想参与湖北省内的救援，村里也不放人，担心出去把疫情带回来。
"Some of the brothers wanted to participate in the relief efforts in Hubei Province, and the village did not let anyone out, fearing to bring back the outbreak," the stationmaster of Hubei truck station told reporters.
”封路的影响不仅仅是湖北。
Hubei is not alone in its impact.
安徽亳州的袁师傅专门做某连锁快餐品牌原材料的配送，他在春节前的最后一单是1月19日运达北京的原材料，然后就开车回安徽老家过年。
Shifu Yuan of Bozhou, Anhui province, specializes in the distribution of raw materials for a chain of fast food brands. His last order before the Spring Festival comes on January 19, when he arrives in Beijing and drives back to his hometown of Anhui for the New Year.
新冠肺炎在全国蔓延，袁师傅说：“大年初二封了村，我们村子不许外人进村，我们村里的人也不能出去。
"The village was closed on the second day of the Lunar New Year," said Master Yuan. "Outsiders are not allowed to enter the village, nor can the people from our village go out.
我平时不住村里，只是回老家过年，就算出了村也没法接单，很多地方都设了路障，高速也只能上，不能下。
I usually do not live in the village, just back home New Year, even out of the village can not accept orders, many places have set up roadblocks, high-speed can only go up, not down.
我现在已经取消了年后北京、武汉、广州的订单。
I have now cancelled the order for Beijing, Wuhan and Guangzhou after next year.
”1月30日，农业农村办公厅、交通运输部办公厅、公安部办公厅已经发出了《关于确保“菜篮子”产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序的紧急通知》，严禁未经批准擅自设卡拦截、断路阻断交通等违法行为，维护“菜篮子”产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序。
On January 30, the Agricultural and Rural Office, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the General Office of the Ministry of Public Security issued an emergency notice on ensuring the normal flow of "basket" products and agricultural means of production.
“菜篮子”是目前最为紧迫、关乎生活和稳定的一个方面。
The "vegetable basket" is one of the most urgent aspects of life and stability.
阻断疫情十万火急，但它如果要持续一段时间的话，需要更细致的规划和对群众引导，尽量让社会运转靠近正常状态，把疫情造成的损失尽量降低。
Halting the epidemic is urgent, but if it is to last for some time, it will require more careful planning and guidance to keep society as close to normal as possible and to minimize the damage caused by the epidemic.
作者档案杨璐《三联生活周刊》资深主笔。
Author file Yang Lu "three Lifestyle" senior lead writer.
我就静静地看着这个世界。
I just watch the world silently.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@三联璐璐杨请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Lifestyle Weekly Personal Weibo 26 minutes ago: @ three Lu Lu Yang please poke [Wuhan New Pneumonia Series] The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
湖北即将断粮的3亿只鸡。
Hubei is about to lose grain 300 million chickens.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "湖北即将断粮的3亿只鸡";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "最直观的联系，它关乎“菜篮子”的稳定和秩序，只有产得出、运得走、供得上，才能在当前疫情下尽量维持基层社会的运转，减少经济损失。
var msg _ desc = & quot; the most intuitive link to & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
