“封城”十天 | 摄影镜头下的武汉。
Wuhan with a photographic lens.
蔡小川。
Tsai Xiaochuan.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
摄影记者 | 蔡小川“女士们先生们，列车已经到达武汉站，请您按照先后顺序下车……”广播响起来的时候，车厢里的气氛陡然升到了最高点。
"Ladies and gentlemen, the train has arrived at Wuhan Station, please get off in the order you want..." As the broadcast began, the atmosphere in the car suddenly reached its height.
所有人的目光都转向了车窗外夜幕之下黑压压的城市。
All eyes turned to the dark city outside the window.
一个列车员从车厢一头飞奔过来。
A conductor sped up from one end of the carriage.
“前面有两个人要在这里下车，还有谁要下？”我看向她，还没开口，她就明白了：“你是不是也要下？你怎么不早说？身份证拿来！”这下，全车厢哗然一片，全都看向了我。
"There are two people here to get off here, who else want to get off?" I looked at her, did not open her mouth, she understand: "You do not want to say? Why did not you say? ID card!"
有人在议论：居然有人在这儿下车！这是1月27日晚上，武汉封城后的第五天，我在G69列车上。
Someone is saying: Someone got off here! This is January 27 night, Wuhan after the closure of the fifth day, I am on the G69 train.
2020年1月27日武汉站前一天，图片总监宋文发信息问我：你愿意去武汉吗？我秒回：可以。
January 27, 2020 Wuhan Station, picture director Song Wenfa message asked me: Would you like to go to Wuhan? I seconds back: Yes.
我所在的《三联生活周刊》社会部的同事早就奔赴了现场。
My colleague from the Social Department of Triple Life Weekly had already gone to the scene.
对于我而言，这个年，父母见过了，爷爷奶奶姥爷姥姥的坟也去拜了，基本上算是了无牵挂。
For me, this year, my parents have seen, grandparents and grandma's grave also went to worship, basically nothing to worry about.
我本来准备和爹妈做做思想工作，出乎意料，他们很快就答应了，只是说让我做好防护。
I was going to do some thought work with Mom and Dad. Unexpectedly, they quickly agreed, saying only that they wanted me to protect myself.
这估计和我常年出差不着家有关，他们早就习惯了。
It probably has to do with my being away from home on business all year round. They're used to it.
如何进入已经封城的武汉？记者王珊指了个方向，买从北京到广州的一趟路过武汉的火车，会在武汉经停。
How to enter the already closed Wuhan? Reporter Wang Shan pointed the way to buy a train from Beijing to Guangzhou passing Wuhan, will stop at Wuhan.
“你就那时候下车。
"You get off at that time.
”电话挂断前，王珊叮嘱我多带点口罩，她说他们手上只有一次性医用口罩。
Before the phone hung up, Shan asked me to wear more masks, saying they only had disposable medical masks on their hands.
带着老妈给的几个口罩和图片总监宋文交给我3身防护服、3个医用口罩和3个护目镜，我坐上了去武汉的火车。
Taking several masks and pictures from my mother, Song Wen handed me three protective suits, three medical masks and three goggles. I got on the train to Wuhan.
火车人真不少，每个人都裹得严严实实。
There are so many people on the train, everyone is wrapped up in it.
周围不断有人咳嗽，气氛显得非常凝重。
There was a constant cough and the atmosphere was solemn.
也有心大的一家脱了口罩就喂孩子吃橘子，看得我目瞪口呆。
Also has the heart big family to take off the mask to feed the child to eat the orange, sees me staring dumbfounded.
为了松口气，我给好友发消息：我去武汉了。
In order to relax, I sent a message to my friend: I went to Wuhan.
他们不知道说啥，只回俩字：“保重。
"They didn't know what to say, just two words:" Take care.
”我拖着行李站在车门前等着开门，10秒，15秒，门像撒气了一样开了。
"I stood in front of the car with my bags and waited for the door to open ． For ten seconds ， fifteen seconds ， the door opened as if it had blown ．
目测这趟列车有十来个人下车。
Visually about a dozen people got off the train.
下车的人都不说话，低着头朝出口走去。
The men who got out did not speak, but walked towards the exit with their heads bowed.
还有人想上车。
Somebody else wanted to get on.
出站口，一个男人拼命往站里冲，被工作人员团团抱住。
Out of the station, a man desperately ran to the station, was surrounded by staff.
他攥着手机，屏幕亮着，上面显示了两个字“武汉”。
His cell phone was clutched and the screen was on, showing two words, Wuhan.
武汉站出口远处的显示牌上写着G69到达武汉的时间武汉整个交通系统全部停运了，同事潘鸿和文字记者张从志帮我联系了两辆车。
Wuhan station exits a far-off sign that says G69 arrives in Wuhan when the whole transport system in Wuhan is out of service. My colleague Pan Hong and Zhang Conzhi contacted two cars for me.
一位志愿者开车载上我，送我去和另一位好心市民汇合。
A volunteer picked me up in a car and took me to meet another kind citizen.
她自愿把自己的私家车提供给周刊使用。
She volunteered her private car for weekly use.
这位姐姐见到我，先打开后备箱交给我2瓶酒精，让我及时消毒，这可是武汉的稀缺物资。
When the elder sister saw me, she opened the trunk and handed me two bottles of alcohol to disinfect me in time, which was a scarce commodity in Wuhan.
她说，后备箱没时间收拾，都是些空酒瓶，让我凑合着开。
'There's no time to pack up the trunk, 'she says.' They're empty bottles.
我就拖着这些叮叮当当的酒瓶朝记者奔去。
I dragged the jingling bottles toward the reporters.
见到记者就像亲人团聚。
Seeing a reporter is like reuniting with a loved one.
在这天结束以前，我们先要送一家医院的采访对象回家，他不会开车，限行之后出门都成了问题。
By the end of the day, we had to take our interviewee home from a hospital. He couldn't drive, and going out after the line was a problem.
他们在车里聊着武汉现状，我开着车正好经过武汉长江大桥。
They were chatting in the car about the current situation in Wuhan and I was driving by the Wuhan Changjiang Bridge.
八车道空空荡荡，大家唏嘘不已。
The eight lanes were empty and sobbed.
到宾馆的时候，记者和我说他们今天采访的一个医生确认了肺部感染，我们相视无言。
When I got to the hotel, the reporter told me that a doctor they interviewed today confirmed the lung infection and we looked at each other speechless.
封城后的武汉二七长江大桥以下就是我用镜头记录的武汉。
Wuhan after the closure of the 27 Yangtze River Bridge is I used the camera records of Wuhan.
武汉大学中南医院位于武昌区东湖路169号，是一家三级医院。
Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital, located at 169 Donghu Road, Wuchang District, is a level III hospital.
这是我拍摄的第一家医院。
This is the first hospital I've ever photographed.
急救车刚送进来的重病号在来之前，我不清楚自己作为一个图片摄影能起到什么作用，我来拍这些东西是想说明什么，但我想如果不能在这个时刻近距离记录他们，可能也是一种冷漠吧。
I didn't know what I was going to do as a photo shoot before the arrival of the sick man who had just arrived, but I think it would be cold if I couldn't keep a close look at them at this moment.
忙碌的医护人员刚到这里时，我抓紧戴上了口罩。
I quickly put on my mask when the busy paramedics arrived.
门诊就有一个抢救室，里面有病人在抢救。
The clinic has a rescue room with patients in it.
老爷爷在门口看着抢救的老伴我在门口等了很久，病人终于出来了，插着呼吸管，被医务人员推去病房。
Grandfather at the door to see the rescue of my wife I waited at the door for a long time, the patient finally came out, inserted breathing tube, was pushed to the ward by medical staff.
我觉得她可怜，又觉得她幸运，毕竟相对于外面等待病床的患者，她起码已经得到了救治，生存上有了一线的希望。
I felt sorry for her and felt lucky that she had at least a glimmer of hope of survival, as opposed to a patient waiting outside for a bed.
戴着不合格口罩的家属，在疫情面前一样陪伴在家人身边。
Family members wearing unqualified masks accompany their families in the face of the epidemic.
我看着揪心，也许，在这个时候亲情能让人忘掉病毒带给人的恐惧。
I look at the heart, perhaps, at this time family can let people forget the fear of the virus.
我在抢救室拍了很久，最终不得不出去透了一口气，这种环境太让人窒息了。
I filmed in the recovery room for a long time and finally had to take a deep breath. It was such a suffocating environment.
相片还是能记录下一种文字无法描述的气氛，老爷爷的大手，老派的眼镜，花白的头发，他们在交谈什么，我们虽然听不到，但那种焦虑弥漫在空气里，谁都能感受到。
Photos can still capture an atmosphere that cannot be described in words, the big hands of grandfathers, the old-fashioned glasses, the gray hair, what they are talking about, and we can't hear it, but it's in the air, and everyone can feel it.
在医院里，语言仿佛失去了作用，医务人员、家属大家都在诉说彼此的难处，谁都没有解决的办法，医院没有多余的病床，病人依然住不了院。
In the hospital, the language seems to have lost its usefulness, the medical staff, the family are all telling each other's difficulties, no one has a solution, the hospital does not have extra beds, and the patients are still unable to stay in the hospital.
医院外面，一位女士咳嗽到不行，又住不进病房。
Outside the hospital, a woman coughed to such an extent that she could not enter the ward.
我看到了两个人的绝望，想要拍出来，却不知道怎么去表达，只拍到了两个人的沉默。
I saw the despair of two people, want to shoot out, but do not know how to express, only to capture the silence of two people.
武汉的立交指引着汽车前行的道路，却不见过马路的行人和车辆。
Wuhan intersection guides the road ahead of the car, but there are no pedestrians and vehicles crossing the road.
空旷的户部巷天桥下蓝色的线条指向道路远方零星的树叶，空旷的街道出行只能靠蹬车了记者张从志在武汉上了4年大学，他告诉我这条路是楚河汉街附近非常有人气的街道。
The blue line under the empty driveway flyover points to the scattered leaves in the distance, and the open streets can only be reached by cycling journalist Zhang Yongzhi, who spent four years in Wuhan. He told me it was a very popular street near Chu He Han Street.
老人还是习惯在出太阳的时候出来晾衣服。
The old man is still used to come out to dry his clothes in the sun.
拍这张只为左下角那位抱着琴的老人，琴声带给整条街一丝生气。
Pat the old man with the piano in his arms in the lower left corner and bring a breath of life to the whole street.
在清晨的雾气中，我们朝医院行驶。
In the early morning fog, we drove towards the hospital.
这里哪里像2020年的武汉。
It's like Wuhan in 2020.
武汉市第七医院是武汉当地一家二级医院，是武汉市第一批定点医院。
Wuhan 7th Hospital is a local level II hospital, Wuhan City is the first designated hospitals.
这个医院设施一般，看起来有点像我以前采访拍过的乡镇医院。
The hospital is average and looks a bit like the township hospital I interviewed before.
大量的氧气瓶被送进医院阴冷的武汉终于出了太阳，让医院显得没那么冰冷。
A large number of oxygen cylinders were sent to the hospital cold Wuhan finally out of the sun, so that the hospital appears less cold.
我进去之前，就看到医院门口各个显著位置都贴着“床位已满”的公告。
Before I went in, I saw announcements of "full beds" posted in prominent positions outside the hospital gates.
走进门去，右手边是一个输液房间，一排排座位上是一排排输液的人，我从来没有看到过这么多人一起输液，这个场景让我觉得心里很震动。
Entering the door, on the right, was an infusion room with rows and rows of infusion people. I had never seen so many people infusion together.
七院里聚集了不少来打吊针的人我用语言描述不出来，大家可以看看照片。
There were a lot of people in the seven yards who came to do the needles. I can't describe them in words.
为了避免感染，这些患者多是自己一个人过来，我看到许多年纪很大的老人，颤颤巍巍，也不知道他们是怎么在封城的情况下来到医院的。
To avoid infection, most of these patients came by themselves, I saw many very old people, trembling, do not know how they came to the hospital in the circumstances.
来医院的患者，选择雨衣作为防护工具住院患者和家属医护人员穿上了防护服，大家互相认不出来，就在衣服上写上了部门和自己的名字。
When the patients came to the hospital, they chose raincoat as a protection tool. The inpatient and the family member put on the protective clothing. They could not recognize each other.
CT室的工作人员说，现在是来一个人拍一个，根本没有上下班之说。
The staff in the CT room said it was time for one person to take a photo and there was no commuting.
1月30号我们拿到了18个N95口罩，心里有点高兴。
We got 18 N95 masks on January 30th, a little happy.
后来记者王珊去采访时，得知医院口罩急缺，一个口罩要用4天，她给我发消息让我把那些口罩全部拿给医院。
Reporter Wang Shang went to interview, learned that the urgent need for a surgical mask, a four-day period, she sent me a message to me to bring all those masks to the hospital.
我并没有同意，好不容易有了些N95，最好还是自己先留着，据说第二天还会有100个KN95口罩能给我们。
I didn't agree. Having some N95, I'd better keep it myself. It's said that 100 KN95 masks will be available for us the next day.
我说这18个我们就留下吧，明天给那些，王珊怒斥让我别废话。
I said these 18 let's stay, tomorrow to those, Wang Shan angrily told me to stop nonsense.
她捧着这些N95口罩给医生，对方拿到手里看了下，说这是防雾霾的口罩，医院用不了。
She held the N95 mask to the doctor, who held it in her hand and said it was a smog mask that the hospital could not use.
又是一通沉默。
There was another silence.
和第七医院一墙之隔的居民楼，左边的老奶奶在晒着太阳织毛衣，右边的老爷爷和老奶奶在晾衣服，这样的场面让人抱有对美好生活的希望。
On the left side of the residential building, just across the wall from the seventh hospital, the old woman on the left was knitting a sweater, and the grandpa and grandmother on the right were drying clothes.
高楼上的霓虹灯写着武汉加油，大家都宅在家里，这又是给谁看呢？出来就是一天，两位记者在后座睡了，我朝着宾馆开着。
The neon lights in the tall building said Wuhan refueling, everyone is in the house, which is for who to look at? Out one day, two journalists slept in the back seat, I open towards the hotel.
作者档案蔡小川一见哈哈笑26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@蔡小川请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
The author file Tsai Xiaochuan see Huajie 26 minutes ago Lifestyle Weekly personal blog: @ Cai Xiaochuan please stamp [Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Series] The copyright of the article belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
蔡小川。
Tsai Xiaochuan.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“封城”十天 | 摄影镜头下的武汉。
Wuhan with a photographic lens.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "图片";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; picture & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“封城”十天 | 摄影镜头下的武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "这里哪里像2020年的武汉。
var msg _ desc = & quot; where is Wuhan like 2020?
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
