3天备好2000个床位，武软学院回应宿舍征调质疑。
Three days ready 2000 beds, Wu soft college responded to the dormitory recruitment challenge.
王伟凯。
Wang Weikai.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
此前，这里被丢满了学生们的盒子、袋子等物品，现在已经清理干净。
Previously, the place was filled with students' boxes, bags and other things, which have now been cleaned up.
（王伟凯/摄）全文共2865字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 2 865 words and takes about 7 minutes to read.
武软的学生宿舍大都没有电梯，如果将物资统一搬运到楼下，时间和人力上都无法保障。
Most of the Wu soft student dormitory does not have elevator, if the unified material to move downstairs, time and manpower are not guaranteed.
于是，学校个别教职工选择了一个更直接的办法，就是将废物品扔到楼下，然后再统一收拾。
As a result, individual school staff chose a more direct approach, is to throw the waste items downstairs, and then the unified collection.
四所武汉市属高校将会改造成定点医疗点，用于收治轻症患者。
The four Wuhan municipal colleges and universities will be converted into designated medical points for treating patients with mild diseases.
短短几天里，他们要腾出8800个床位。
In a matter of days, they have 8,800 beds to spare.
“其实，学生贵重物品，电脑、手机等，还有一些有纪念意义的物品，比如有名字的水杯、照片、鞋子等，我们都有统计收拾起来了。
"In fact, students' valuables, computers, mobile phones, and other items with commemorative items, such as named water cups, photos, shoes, etc., we have our statistics sorted out
学生返校后，可以来领。
Students can claim it when they return to school.
”她希望学生们理解特殊时期学校的难处，同时再次表示将会给学生们补偿，而此时她已经跟同事们连续工作了3日。
She wants students to understand the difficulties of special time schools and says she will make amends for her students after three days of continuous work with colleagues.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 王伟凯责任编辑 | 张玥2020年2月9日下午6点，杜鹏的几个微信群突然热闹了起来，几张图片和几段视频让他和群友们炸了锅。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint Wang Weikai, a reporter at Southern Weekend. At 6 p.m. on February 9, a few small groups of Du Peng suddenly became busy. Several pictures and video clips have made him and his friends blow up the pot.
学生认为他们留在学校宿舍里的床褥、盆子、鞋子就像垃圾一样被“扔”了出来，整个楼道、房间都是乱糟糟的。
The students thought their mattresses, pots, and shoes left in the dorm were "thrown" out like trash, and the aisles and rooms were in disarray.
一段视频还显示，几名工作人员正把宿舍柜子里面的东西往外掏，随手就丢在了一旁。
A video also showed several staff members pulling things out of their dorm cabinets and throwing them aside.
杜鹏是武汉软件工程职业学院（以下简称“武软”）的大二学生，两天前，他们看到通知，学校部分宿舍将被改为防疫隔离区，图片和视频显示的正是工作人员清理宿舍的场景。
Two days ago, Du Peng, a sophomore at Wuhan Software Engineering Vocational College, saw a notice announcing that some of the school's dormitories would be turned into a quarantine zone. Pictures and videos show staff cleaning the dormitory.
当天晚上，这些图片和视频在各大网络、社交平台上传开。
That night, these pictures and videos in the major networks, social platforms spread.
第二天凌晨1时，学校发出了一封致歉信，并承诺会对同学们的物品损失予以补偿。
At 1 a.m. the next morning, the school sent out a letter of apology and promised to compensate the students for the loss of their belongings.
2月10日下午，该校副校长孙美华接受了南方周末记者采访，她承认工作中存在疏忽，但她希望学生们理解特殊时期学校的难处，同时再次表示将会给学生们补偿，而此时她已经跟同事们连续工作了3日。
In an interview with Southern Weekend reporter on the afternoon of February 10, Sun Mei-hua, vice-president of the school, admitted there had been negligence at work, but said she hoped students would understand the difficulties of schools in special times and reiterate that she would compensate students after three days of continuous work with colleagues.
1足够的床位是“应收尽收”的关键在武软北门的门口，贴着一个公告：根据武汉市疫情防控指挥部的命令，从2月7日起，学校北区10—16栋公寓，共2000个床位将作为防疫隔离区。
Sufficient beds are the key to "receivable" in front of the north gate of Wu soft, a notice: According to the order of Wuhan city epidemic prevention and control command, from February 7, the school north of 10-16 apartments, a total of 2,000 beds will be used as quarantine area.
一间宿舍只能做成一个床位或者两个床位，这也意味着需要腾出至少1000间宿舍。
One dormitory can only accommodate one bed or two, which also means that at least 1,000 dormitories need to be vacated.
孙美华向南方周末记者介绍，2月7日中午他们接到通知时，当时要求是1000个床位，但是到了第二天，这个要求翻了倍，要腾出2000个床位。
Sun told Southern Weekend that when they were notified at noon on February 7 that 1,000 beds were required, by the next day the demand had doubled to free 2,000 beds.
除了武软之外，被征作隔离区的高校还有武汉商学院、江汉大学、武汉船舶职业技术学院，上述4所高校是武汉市的市属高校，他们均投入到抗疫一线。
Besides Wusoft, Wuhan Business School, Jianghan University and Wuhan Shipping Vocational and Technical College are also among the universities that have been recruited into the quarantine zone.
新冠肺炎疫情暴发后，不断上涨的确诊患者、疑似患者、密切接触者数量对防止疫情的扩散提出了严峻的挑战。
After the outbreak of New Crown Pneumonia, the increasing number of confirmed patients, suspected patients and close contacts poses a serious challenge to prevent the spread of the epidemic.
2月5日，湖北省疫情防抗指挥部下达命令，要对疑似和确诊病例尽最大努力收治，不能收治的，则要转运至隔离点。
On February 5, the Hubei Provincial Anti-epidemic Command issued an order to treat suspected and confirmed cases to the best of its ability and, if they could not be treated, to transfer them to quarantine points.
“应收尽收、应治尽治”，成为了武汉“抗疫”的关键一战。
"Receivable, should cure all", has become Wuhan "anti-epidemic" key World War I.
这一“关键之战”能否取胜，取决于是否有足够的收治床位。
The success of this "crucial battle" depends on the availability of enough beds.
此前，床位少一直制约着抗疫的进程。
Until then, the lack of beds has been limiting the course of the epidemic.
为了解决这一问题，武汉市除了增加指定医院数量，兴建火神山、雷神山医院、方舱医院之外，也征调了学校、党校、宾馆等力量。
In order to solve this problem, Wuhan city has not only increased the number of designated hospitals, but also recruited schools, Party schools and guesthouses, in addition to building Mount Fire, Lei Shenshan Hospital and Fang Cao Hospital.
据南方周末记者不完全统计，除了上述四所高校之外，还有湖北省委党校以及武汉市交通学校、武汉机电工程学校、武汉市第二轻工业学校、武汉市第一商业学校、武汉市第一职业教育中心、武汉城市职业学校、武汉仪表电子学校等多所职业院校也被征调。
Besides the four above-mentioned universities, Hubei Provincial Party School, Wuhan Electromechanical Engineering School, Wuhan Second Light Industrial School, Wuhan First Commercial School, Wuhan City First Vocational Education Center, Wuhan City Vocational School and Wuhan Meter Electronic School were also called in addition to the four above-mentioned universities.
根据2月7日湖北省防疫新闻发布会信息，上述四所市属高校将会改造成定点医疗点，用于收治轻症患者。
According to a press conference on February 7 in Hubei province, the four municipal colleges and universities will be transformed into designated medical stations for treating patients with mild illness.
不同的人群要被不同隔离点收治。
Different groups of people have to be treated at different isolation points.
2月5日，武汉市疫控指挥部下发《关于进一步规范新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎定点收治医院患者收治工作的通知》，规定重症病例、危重症病例、疑似的危重症病例将会被定点医院收治；其余患者要送往社区隔离点或者方舱医院收治。
On February 5, the Wuhan Municipal Epidemic Command issued the Notice on Further Regulating the Admission and Treatment of Patients with Coronavirus Infection in Designated Hospitals, stipulating that serious cases, critical cases and suspected cases of serious illness will be treated at designated hospitals.
高校、酒店、党校所改建的隔离区，一般就属于“社区隔离点”，它们将接收轻症患者、疑似患者以及密切接触者。
Colleges and universities, hotels, party schools converted the isolation area, is generally a "community isolation point", they will receive light patients, suspected patients and close contacts.
2四所高校腾出8800个床位事实上，轻症患者、疑似患者以及密切接触者的接收，对病床的数量和要求更高。
In fact, the admission of light patients, suspected patients and close contacts has increased the number and demand for beds.
根据《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎诊疗方案》（试行第五版），确诊病例可以多人收治在同一病室，疑似病例则应当单人隔离治疗。
Under the New Coronavirus Infection Diagnosis and Treatment Programme for Pneumonia (trial version 5), confirmed cases can be treated in the same ward by multiple patients, while suspected cases should be treated in isolation.
以方舱医院为例，目前武汉已经投入使用的方舱医院共有3座，未来还将会建设10座，那里收治的均是轻症确诊患者。
Take the Fang Cao Hospital for example, Wuhan has already put into use a total of three Fang cabin hospitals, 10 will be built in the future, where patients diagnosed with mild illness are admitted.
方舱医院多是用体育馆、展览中心改建而成，收治的患者之间并未进行隔离，而是集中在体育馆或者展览中心内开放的空间里。
Most of the cabin hospitals are converted from gymnasiums and exhibition centers. Instead of isolating patients, they are concentrated in open spaces in stadiums or exhibition centers.
曾有患者和家属担心会继续被感染，在SARS时期担任北京医疗专家组组长的中国医学科学院院长王辰曾表示，由于是确诊患者，病原相同，交叉感染不是突出问题。
Wang Chen, director of the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, who led a Beijing medical panel during the SARS period, said cross-infection was not a problem because patients were diagnosed with the same pathogen.
根据武汉市疫控指挥部的要求，武汉市将对四类人员进行分类集中收治、隔离观察，四类人员指确诊患者、疑似患者、无法排除感染可能的发热患者、确诊患者的密切接触者。
According to the request of Wuhan city epidemic control command, Wuhan city will classify four categories of personnel for centralized treatment, isolation observation, four categories of personnel refers to confirmed patients, suspected patients, can not exclude the possibility of infection febrile patients, confirmed patients in close contact.
由于后三类人群无法确定是否已经感染，对于他们的隔离就需要单独隔离，同时他们又是数量最大的人群，这对于隔离房间和病床数量提出了更高的要求。
Since the latter three groups are unsure whether they are infected, their isolation requires isolation and they are the largest group, which places higher demands on the number of isolation rooms and beds.
武汉市疫控指挥部对武软最开始提出的要求是1000个床位，后来增加到2000个床位。
Wuhan city epidemic control headquarters for Wu soft at the beginning of the request is 1000 beds, later increased to 2,000 beds.
其他3所学校也是如此。
The same is true of the other three schools.
武汉商学院一名老师就向南方周末记者表示，他们最开始接到的通知是1000个床位，但是到了2月8日，这个要求变成了2400个。
A teacher at Wuhan Business School told Southern Weekend that they were initially notified of 1,000 beds, but by February 8 the number had changed to 2,400.
综合这位老师与孙美华的说法，其他两所市属高校要腾出的床位分别是2000个和2400个，这意味着4所高校要腾出8800个床位。
Taken together, the teacher and Sun said the other two municipal colleges would vacate 2,000 beds and 2,400 beds respectively, meaning 8,800 beds would be available at the four universities.
南方周末记者在武软看到，本来四人间的学生宿舍只在两张床上放了床褥，并准备了两套个人生活用品。
Southern Weekend reporter saw in Wu soft, originally 4 person dormitory put mattress on two beds only, and prepared two sets of personal belongings.
学校工作人员向南方周末记者表示，根据要求，宿舍将会接收轻症确诊患者，但是并不排除也有可能接收疑似患者或者密切接触者。
School staff told Southern Weekend reporter that, according to the request, the dormitory will accept patients diagnosed with mild cases, but does not exclude the possibility of receiving suspected patients or close contacts.
如果是疑似患者或者密切接触者，那么一个宿舍就只能住进一个人。
In the case of suspected patients or close contacts, then a dormitory can only be occupied by one person.
孙美华向南方周末记者介绍，学校有一套完整的生活设施，学生宿舍较多，能够在短时间内住进数千人。
Sun told Southern Weekend reporter that the school has a complete set of living facilities, more students dormitory, can live in a short time thousands of people.
不过，在介绍这段内容的时候，孙美华有一些矛盾。
However, in introducing this paragraph, Sun Mei-hua has some contradictions.
一方面，她觉得在这场抗疫中，学校应该做点什么，这既是为了社会，也是为了自己；另一方面，将学生宿舍贡献出去，等疫情结束之后，也担心学生们再次入住时，会有所顾虑。
On the one hand, she felt that the school should do something about the epidemic, both for society and for herself. On the other hand, by contributing to the hostel, she feared that students would be afraid to move in again when the outbreak was over.
这是已经整改为隔离点的学生宿舍，放着两床被褥和两套生活用品。
The hostel, which has been converted into a seclusion, contains two mattresses and two sets of daily necessities.
（王伟凯/摄）3“任务实在太重，给的时间又很短”从2月7日接到任务开始，他们最多只有3天时间，要将2000个床位腾出来。
"The task is too heavy and the time given is short," Wang said. From the start of their assignment on February 7, they have only three days to vacate up to 2,000 beds.
由于现在处于放假时间，加之疫情弥漫，各个城市实行交通管制，他们只能将还在武汉市的教职工们召回。
Because of the holiday season and the spread of the epidemic, the cities imposed traffic controls and had to recall their staff, who were still in Wuhan.
在学校的动员下，陆续有二百多个教职工返校，网上流传“乱扔”学生物品的也是这些教职工，并且大多数是老师。
Under the mobilization of the school, more than 200 faculty and staff have returned to school, and it is the same faculty members, most of whom are teachers, who spread the "littering" of students' belongings online.
武软机械学院一位负责人向南方周末记者坦言，老师们在收拾学生物品时，有些行为确实不恰当，但是任务实在太重，给的时间又很短。
A director of Wu's School of Mechanics told Southern Weekend that some teachers' actions were inappropriate when they packed up the students' belongings, but the task was too heavy and the time given was short.
他同时表示，参与工作的很多都是跟学生们朝夕相处的老师，不会去恶意乱丢同学们的物品。
He also said that many of the students are involved in the work of teachers with students, will not malicious throw the objects of the students.
武软的学生宿舍大都没有电梯，如果将物资统一搬运到楼下，时间和人力上都无法保障。
Most of the Wu soft student dormitory does not have elevator, if the unified material to move downstairs, time and manpower are not guaranteed.
于是，学校个别教职工选择了一个更直接的办法，就是将废物品扔到楼下，然后再统一收拾。
As a result, individual school staff chose a more direct approach, is to throw the waste items downstairs, and then the unified collection.
“其实，学生贵重物品，电脑、手机等，还有一些有纪念意义的物品，比如有名字的水杯、照片、鞋子等，我们都有统计收拾起来了。
"In fact, students' valuables, computers, mobile phones, and other items with commemorative items, such as named water cups, photos, shoes, etc., we have our statistics sorted out
学生返校后，可以来领。
Students can claim it when they return to school.
”这位负责人向南方周末记者展示了物品统计的表格。
The person in charge showed Southern Weekend reporters a tabulation of items.
孙美华则希望学生们能够理解学校，她表示，一些被褥、牙刷等生活用品，经过这次疫情之后，等结束假期返校后，也都应该更换。
Sun, who wants students to understand the school, said items such as bedding and toothbrushes should be replaced after returning to school after the epidemic.
同时还表示，学校已经制定了相关方案，将对学生物品的损坏予以补偿。
It also said schools have developed programs to compensate students for damage to their belongings.
事实上，一些学生也能够理解学校的做法。
In fact, some students are able to understand school practices.
以杜鹏为例，当他知道学校被征作防疫隔离区之后，他既自豪又有些担忧。
Du Peng, for example, was both proud and worried when he learned that his school was under quarantine.
自豪的是，在全国都在驰援武汉的时候，学校成为了抗疫一线的一分子；担忧的是，等疫情结束之后，宿舍会不会残留病毒。
While Wuhan was being helped across the country, the school was proud to be part of the frontline of the epidemic, and there was concern about whether there would be any virus left in the dormitories after the outbreak was over.
当他在网上看到，留在宿舍里的物品被“粗暴”对待，这种担忧变成了气愤。
When he saw on the Internet that things left in the dorm were "roughly" treated, the fear turned into anger.
不过，等他看到第二天凌晨学校的致歉信之后，气也逐渐消了。
But by the time he saw the letter of apology from the school the next morning, his anger had worn off.
他们学校也组织教职工们给学生们打电话、发信息去解释，寻求理解。
Their school also organizes faculty and staff to call students, send messages to explain, and seek understanding.
2月10日晚上，武软将学校的化粪池做了消毒、改造，因为根据此前的专家解释，粪便也可能成为病毒的传播途径。
On the night of February 10, Wu soft disinfected and modified the school's septic tank, because according to previous experts, feces may also become a route of transmission of the virus.
目前，学校宿舍的整改工作已经达到了院感专家的标准，不久就将会投入到使用中。
At present, the renovation of school dormitories has reached the standards of hospital specialists, and will soon be put into use.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
3天备好2000个床位，武软学院回应宿舍征调质疑。
Three days ready 2000 beds, Wu soft college responded to the dormitory recruitment challenge.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "3天备好2000个床位，武软学院回应宿舍征调质疑";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with 2,000 beds available in three days, Wu Soft College responded to RR & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
