下不了的高速：疫情中的现实“囧途”。
Unable to get off the high-speed: the reality of the epidemic "ostracism."
李慕琰。
Sharon Lee.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月8日，工作人员在浙江省湖州市长兴县的G50沪渝高速长兴西检查站执勤（图文无直接联系）。
Feb. 8, workers in Changxing County, Zhejiang Province, the G50 Shanghai-Chongqing high-speed Changxing West checkpoint (no direct link).
（新华社记者 徐昱/图）全文共3766字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3,766 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
他们听到最多的话是——“从哪来回哪去”。
The most they heard was - "Where to go back and forth".
但是目的地不让进，出发地不让回。
But the destination is not allowed in and the originating location is not allowed.
王雪松把他“高度敏感”的鄂A车丢在服务区后，实在想不通这一点：“到底人是感染体，还是车是感染体？”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 李慕琰南方周末特约撰稿 陈亚杰责任编辑 | 邢人俨过去一个月里，50岁的货车司机肖红兵开着他的轻卡车，跑遍了大半个中国。
After leaving his highly sensitive E-E vehicle in the service area, Wang couldn't figure out whether it was an infected person or a car, according to a report released by Southern Weekend reporter David Li. Yan Xing Xin Yan: In the past month, Xiao Hongbing, a 50-year-old truck driver, drove about half of China in his light truck.
2020年1月7日，他从湖北荆州出发，辗转浙江、贵州、湖南、广东、福建，临近除夕遇上急单，多加二百块钱，和家人一交代，咬咬牙接了，转道往四川奔去。
On January 7, 2020, he set out from Jingzhou, Hubei Province, tossing and turning Zhejiang, Guizhou, Hunan, Guangdong and Fujian. As he approached the New Year's Eve emergency list, he added 200 yuan to his family.
路上，手机要导航，没工夫看新闻。
Mobile phones need to navigate and have no time for news.
大年初一下高速，肖红兵觉得事情有些不对劲——高速口都是警察，穿着防护服，戴口罩，有人给他量了体温。
On the first day of New Year's Day, Xiao Hongbing felt something was amiss - he was wearing protective clothing and a mask, and his temperature had been taken.
这情形他从没见过。
He had never seen it before.
车停在四川小镇卸货，几个当地人远远盯着他。
Several locals stared at him as the car pulled up to unload in a small town in Sichuan.
过一会儿来了警车，要求肖红兵量体温，查看他之前的行程。
After a while came the police car, asked Xiao Hong Bing to take temperature and check his previous trip.
他这才得知，家乡湖北已成为疫区，许多地方不允许外地车辆进入，他的鄂牌车更是重点关注对象。
He then learned that his hometown of Hubei has become an epidemic area, many places do not allow foreign vehicles to enter, his Hubei car is more focused on the object.
警察要求他尽早离开。
The police asked him to leave as soon as possible.
后来他在另一个地方休息吃饭时，当地人用三轮车把他的货车团团围住，又是一通报警。
Later, while he was resting for dinner in another place, the locals surrounded his van with a tricycle and called the police again.
之后每到一处，肖红兵就对人解释自己从1月初就没去过湖北，但作用不大，人们只是说：赶紧走，别把湖北的病传染给我们，不管你有没有病，最好不要到我们这儿来。
After that, Xiao Hongbing explained to people that he had not been to Hubei since the beginning of January, but it didn't help much. People just said, 'Go away quickly and don't infect us with Hubei.
肖红兵只好又上了高速，开始流浪。
Xiao Hongbing had to go on the high speed again, began to roam.
他不甘心空车回家，继续尝试接单，想去陕西拉大米，走到半路，对方说湖北车进不来，生意又黄了。
Unwilling to return home empty, he continued to try to take orders, to pull rice in Shaanxi Province, half way, the other side said Hubei cars can not enter, business is yellow.
他走过国道、乡道，半夜走过弯弯绕绕的山路，到处都不让外地车过。
He walked along national roads and country roads, past zigzag mountain roads in the middle of the night, and stopped cars everywhere.
再后来，服务区也不让停了，催他快走，肖红兵彻底没了歇脚睡觉的地方。
Later, the service area also did not stop, hurry him to go, Xiao Hong Bing completely no place to rest his feet.
实在困的时候，他就打自己的脸，薅自己的头发。
When he was really sleepy, he struck his face and gathered up his hair.
晃晃荡荡一个多星期，差点撞在高速护栏上，一度跑反了方向。
Wobbled for more than a week, nearly hit the high-speed guardrail, once ran the other way.
1月29日下午，陕西汉中的执勤交警在高速公路上巡逻，发现一辆车停在应急车道上，司机睡着了。
January 29 afternoon, Shaanxi Hanzhong traffic police patrol on the highway, found a car parked in the emergency lane, the driver fell asleep.
他们敲开车窗，肖红兵醒过来，他说“我太累了，太累了”，哭了起来。
They knocked on the window, Xiao Hongbing woke up, he said "I was too tired, too tired," and began to cry.
离家22天后，肖红兵终于在汉中北服务区停了下来。
22 days after leaving home, Xiao Hong Bing finally stopped in the service area of Hanzhong North.
交警为他量体温、买水果，安排他就地隔离，但他怕付不起酒店钱，没敢问价格，拒绝了。
Traffic police took his temperature, bought fruit, arranged for him to be isolated in situ, but he refused for fear that he could not afford the hotel's money and dared not ask the price.
这几天的油钱加过路费，让他赔了半个月收入。
He lost half a month's income on gas and tolls these days.
在服务区，他仍然睡在车上。
In the service area, he still sleeps in the car.
又过了十来天，他被媒体报道，不断有陌生人打来电话，安慰他，为他捐款，钱很快超过了一万，肖红兵赶紧宣布不再接收。
Some ten days later, he was reported by the media, constantly called by strangers, comforted him, donated money for him, the money quickly exceeded 10, 000, Xiao Hongbing quickly announced that no longer accept.
手机被打到没电，肖红兵一刻不停地对人说着谢谢。
The cell phone was hit dead, Xiao Hong Bing did not stop to say thank you.
接受南方周末记者采访的这天晚上，他还是没能回家，但幸运地在服务区的宿舍免费住下了。
On the night of the interview with Southern Weekend reporter, he was still unable to go home, but was lucky enough to live in the dormitory of the service area for free.
没有具体统计表明究竟有多少人滞留在路上。
There are no specific statistics on how many people remain on the roads.
多个省市实施了只出不进的交通管制，许多收费站封闭关停，2月7日山东省政府通报，已经劝返了615辆外省车辆。
Several provinces and municipalities have imposed traffic control on only one route, with many toll gates closed and closed. On February 7, the Shandong Provincial Government announced that 615 vehicles from other provinces had been persuaded to return.
在“抖音”上，有人直播自己从云南回到浙江、又被迫折返云南的曲折之旅，跑了八箱油，涨了四万多粉丝。
On the "shake-off," some people from Yunnan back to Zhejiang, and then forced back to Yunnan twists and turns, ran eight cases of oil, up more than 40,000 fans.
葡萄园农民任明致从贵州老家过完年，想回到襄阳，他已过了隔离期，听说襄阳不封城，就开车上路了。
Ren Mingzhi, a vineyard farmer who had spent the New Year from his hometown in Guizhou, wanted to return to Xiangyang.
没想到路过重庆，不让走了，要求“从哪来回哪去”。
Did not expect to pass through Chongqing, not to let go, asked "where to go back and forth".
“我又不从你那儿下，这路过都不让我路过。
"I'm not coming down from you. I'm not allowed to pass by.
”他感到无奈。
He felt helpless.
南方周末记者采访的多位车主都经历了进退两难的境地：目的地不让进，出发地不让回。
Several car owners interviewed by Southern Weekend reporter experienced a dilemma: no access to the destination and no return from the starting point.
他们听到最多的话就是：“从哪来回哪去”。
The most they heard was: "Where to go back and forth."
1“明天就回去”陈秦在车上睡了14天。
"Go back tomorrow." Chen Qin slept in the car for 14 days.
座椅放平后，两侧扶手挤着他的肋骨，正躺侧躺都不舒服，到现在还疼。
The seat was flattened, his ribs were squeezed between the arms, and he was lying uncomfortably on his side, still in pain.
他年前开车去江西看朋友，疫情一暴发，村子进不去了，他买了床被子，反正和住酒店价格差不多，打算在车上凑合一夜。
He drove to Jiangxi to see his friends a few years ago. As soon as the epidemic broke out and the village couldn't get in, he bought a quilt that was about the same price as a hotel room.
想不到凑合了14天。
Fancy 14 days together.
起初他到处开车找吃的，停在不同村子的边缘，地方不能太显眼，多停一会儿就会有人拍照、举报。
At first he drove around looking for food. He stopped at the edge of different villages. The place was not conspicuous.
他的“浙C”车牌随着温州疫情加重而变得敏感。
His "zhec" license plate became sensitive as the Wenzhou epidemic intensified.
一对卖炒米粉的阿公阿婆见他可怜，想偷偷请他去家里住，可惜最后儿子没答应。
A pair of fried rice noodle mother-in-law see him poor, want to secretly invite him to live at home, but finally son did not agree.
阿婆给他使眼色，让他别说话，买完赶紧走，村里下了命令不准卖给说普通话的人。
A woman gave him a wink, told him to stop talking, rushed to buy, the village gave orders not to sell to Mandarin-speaking people.
陈秦把炒米粉提到车里“像做贼一样吃了”。
Chen Qin took fried rice flour to the car and "ate it like a thief."
后来很多天他只剩下方便面，没有热水，只能干啃，嘴巴干到流血。
For many days he was left with instant noodles, no hot water, only dry gnawing and dry mouth to bleed.
大年初八，警察敲窗，接群众举报，请他离开。
Year 8, the police knock on the window, to receive reports from the masses, ask him to leave.
陈秦开着车游荡，在教堂前找到一块宝地，“这是观察了方圆十里左右，又不出安全区的最佳位置”。
Chen Qin drove around and found a treasure house in front of the church. "This is the best place to observe a ten-mile radius from the safe area."
缺点就是当夜晚降临，附近都是坟地，如果开着车灯，窗外就有反光，就像有人趴在四周看他。
The disadvantage is that when night comes, there are cemeteries nearby, and if you turn on the lights, there is reflection out of the window, like someone looking at him on his stomach.
他不敢熄火，但又怕耗油。
He dare not put out the fire, but he is afraid of consuming oil.
白天，他大部分时候窝在车里，窗户不敢开很大，怕病毒。
During the day, he spent most of his day in his car, his windows afraid to open very large, afraid of viruses.
他看看疫情新闻和电影，反反复复睡觉，实在闷不住了，就去附近的山上走走。
He looked at the news of the epidemic and the movies and went back and forth to sleep. He was really bored and went for a walk to the nearby mountain.
陈秦想到自己这一年够倒霉的，生意失败，背着债，没脸回安徽老家过年，妻女远在四川。
Chen Qin thought of his own bad luck this year, business failure, carrying debts, face back to Anhui home New Year, his wife and daughter in Sichuan.
他在温州开的几家餐馆暂停营业了，想散散心，才跑了出来。
He opened a few restaurants in Wenzhou temporarily closed, want to relax, just ran out.
他有时也发个朋友圈安慰自己：“人生没有那么多十全十美，至少还活着。
He sometimes consoled himself with a circle of friends: Life isn't perfect, at least it's alive.
”教堂的好心人给他开门供电，陈秦偷偷去超市买了电饭煲、大米和榨菜，还没来得及用上，又被举报了。
The good people in the church opened the door for him to supply electricity, and Chen Qin secretly went to the supermarket to buy rice cookers, rice and vegetables before he could use them again.
警察带他到附近的卫生院，做完身体检查，院长给他开具了身体健康的证明。
The police took him to a nearby hospital for a physical examination, and the dean gave him a certificate of good health.
他们送他到上饶高速口，叮嘱道：这次要真的回去，千万不要再回来。
They sent him to the top of the ShangRao expressway, saying, "This time really to go back, do not come back.
上了高速，陈秦不知道该往哪里开。
On the high speed, Chen Qin did not know where to drive.
很长时间一路无车，他孤零零地在高速上跑。
He ran alone on the highway for a long time without a car.
他去加油，油枪半天捏不出油，工作人员说好多天没人来，机器都坏了。
He went to refueling, the oil gun can not pinch oil for a long time, the staff said that no one came for many days, the machine is broken.
这番景象，江西人王雪松也见到了。
This scene, the Jiangxi Wang Cedar also saw.
因为几年前在武汉待过，他开着鄂A车，尽管很久没有去过湖北，他经过加油站时还是很怕被人看见，只敢找无人的机器自助加油。
After spending a few years in Wuhan, he drove a E-bike. Although he had not been to Hubei for a long time, he was afraid to be seen passing by the gas station.
王雪松夜里出发，赶回上海上班，车开到浙江开化，不让过了。
Wang Cedar set out at night, rushed back to work in Shanghai, the car to Zhejiang civilized, not allowed.
他只好原路折返，回到江西，六小时前刚经过的收费口，不给进了。
He had to turn back and return to Jiangxi, where he had been denied access to the toll gate he had passed six hours earlier.
他形容自己“特别心碎”，自家的收费口，既不查身份证，也不看行驶记录，看见武汉牌照，就说什么也不让他再进去了。
He described himself as "particularly heartbroken" and said that he would not be allowed to re-enter the toll booth without checking his identity card or looking at the driving record and seeing Wuhan plates.
又回头开了三百多公里，王雪松到浙江龙岗已经是清晨六点，虽然过不去，交警引导他到服务区休息。
More than 300 kilometers back, Cedar Wang arrived in Longgang, Zhejiang Province at 6 am, although the traffic police guide him to the service area to rest.
他在车上断断续续睡了两个小时。
He slept intermittently for two hours in the car.
陈秦躲进了三清山服务区，这是他沿路找到唯一营业的地方。
Chen Qin hid in the service area of Sanqing Mountain, which was the only place where he found his business along the road.
他问服务区负责人，有没有地方暂住，他可以给钱，对方说没有。
He asked the person in charge of the service area if he had a place to stay and he could give the money.
问其他人，要么不敢接触他，要么就说不知道。
Ask other people, either dare not contact him, or just say do not know.
一位清洁工的老伴悄悄把他带到了工作间，可以用上电饭煲。
A dustman's wife quietly took him to the workshop where he could use an electric rice cooker.
粥煮好了，陈秦去超市买了一罐八宝粥，用里面配的勺子喝粥。
Porridge cooked, Chen Qin went to the supermarket to buy a can of porridge, with a spoon with which to drink porridge.
老大哥从食堂给他打来一条鱼，算是开荤了。
Big Brother brought him a fish from the canteen, which is exactly meat.
带出来的几套衣服早就汗湿发臭，老大哥带他去了洗衣房。
A few suits of clothes were sweaty and smelly, and Big Brother took him to the laundry.
夜里趁大家都睡下，陈秦偷偷把衣服洗了。
Chen Qin secretly washed his clothes during the night while everyone slept.
晾好之后，下了一场大雨，全部湿透，重洗。
When it was dry, there was a heavy rain, all soaked and washed again.
陈秦又买了把伞，把衣服们罩起来。
Chen Qin bought another umbrella to cover his clothes.
他感激得想哭，从车里拿来自己带的茅台，老大哥不肯收。
Thankfully, he tried to cry and brought his own thatch from the car, which he refused to take.
晚上，他还是睡在车里。
At night, he slept in the car.
每天三点多才能睡着，早上八点钟就醒。
You can't fall asleep until three o'clock and wake up at eight.
陈秦每天都在想：“明天回去，明天回去，明天就回去”。
Chen Qin thought every day, "Go back tomorrow, go back tomorrow, go back tomorrow."
2“人是感染体，还是车是感染体？”一觉醒来，王雪松发现困守在服务区的四五辆私家车里，有两个车主已经不见了。
When Cedar Wang woke up, he found that two of the four or five private cars stuck in the service area had disappeared.
大家都是鄂牌，最久的已经滞留四天了，都不知道怎么办，“唯一能达成共识的就是等”。
Everyone is Hubei card, the longest has stayed for four days, do not know how to do, "the only consensus is to wait."
他们把能想到的求助电话都打了一遍。
They called over every call they could think of for help.
市长热线让他们和高速交警自行协调；打给高速交警，协调不了；还打了媒体和110，都没什么效果。
The mayor's hotline had them coordinate with high-speed traffic police; they called high-speed traffic police, but could not coordinate; and they beat the media and 110, all to no avail.
他们问能否把车留在服务区，得到的反馈是不能。
They asked if they could leave their cars in the service area and received no feedback.
但大家还是这么做了，一位车主找朋友从杭州来接他们，几个“患难与共”的陌生人，终于一起坐这辆车逃离了高速公路。
However, they did so, a car owner from Hangzhou to pick them up, a few "shared weal and woe" strangers, finally together in this car fled the highway.
车丢下，人就顺利地通行了。
The car was left behind and the traffic passed smoothly.
王雪松把他“高度敏感”的鄂A车丢在服务区后，实在想不通这一点：“到底人是感染体，还是车是感染体？”从安徽出发的齐敏一家四口同样进退维谷，在高速上来回奔跑了一天一夜。
Cedar Wang left his "highly sensitive" E-E car in the service area and couldn't figure out: "Is it an infected person or a car?" Four members of the Qimin family from Anhui Province ran up and down the highway day and night.
丈夫和两个孩子的湖北身份证成了大麻烦，尽管他们今年没有回过湖北。
Hubei identity cards for her husband and two children have become a problem, even though they have not returned to Hubei this year.
凌晨两点多，安徽老家的高速路口前，交警和他们商量，能否让社区开结婚证明，证明丈夫的身份。
More than two in the morning, Anhui home before the highway junction, traffic police and they discussed whether the community can be issued marriage certificates, proof of the identity of the husband.
家人正在办理的路上，通知又来了：还是不行，“不管你出什么证件都不行”。
On the way home, the notice came again: No, "No matter what papers you give."
齐敏和丈夫轮流开车，不知开去哪里。
Qi Min and her husband took turns driving, not knowing where to drive.
鄂牌车只能加一百元的油，他们一路开，一路加。
Er car can only add 100 yuan of oil, they drive all the way, all the way.
七岁的儿子问她：“我好后悔自己是湖北人。
The seven-year-old son asked her, "I regret being from Hubei.
”最后他们决定把车丢在高速公路上，走路回家。
"Finally they decided to leave their car on the motorway and walk home.
一家四口在天蒙蒙亮时翻过围栏，打着手电，穿过山路回到了家。
The family of four climbed over the fence in the early morning hours, carrying flashlights and returning home via the mountain road.
在三清山服务区躲了几天的陈秦觉得无论如何都要启程了。
After hiding in the service area of Sanqing Mountain for a few days, Chen Qin felt ready to start anyway.
他有点低血糖，头晕，喝了罐装咖啡打起精神上路，打算去温州的几个高速路口依次试试。
He was a bit hypoglycemic, dizzy, drank canned coffee and took to the road, planning to try a few high-speed junctions in Wenzhou.
跑了一整天，试到第三个，他终于在温州东“闯关成功”。
Run all day, try to the third, he finally in Wenzhou East "break through a successful."
天已经黑了，在国道上高兴地跑了一阵，发现卡口依然很多。
It was already dark, running happily on the national road, and found that the jam was still very much.
经过一座大桥，陈秦再次被拦下，要求折返。
After passing a bridge, Chen Qin was again stopped and asked to turn back.
他的经历已经在网络上热传，交警认出了他，陈秦向他们求情，他已经一天没吃饭，心跳加速，实在走不动了。
His experience has been popular on the Internet, traffic police recognized him, Chen Qin begged them, he has not eaten for a day, the heart beat faster, really unable to walk.
交警为他泡了一碗方便面，拿来了橘子。
The traffic police made him a bowl of instant noodles and brought him oranges.
交警和上级协调后说，当地有人来担保他，才能把他接回县城。
Traffic police and superior coordination, said that the local people to guarantee him before he can be taken back to the county.
离县城只有35分钟车程了，陈秦觉得几乎就在眼前。
With only 35 minutes' drive from the county seat, Chen Qin felt almost at hand.
朋友们帮他四处联系，沟通了半小时，最终无果。
Friends helped him around, communication for half an hour, but in the end it was fruitless.
陈秦崩溃了，他把车停在路边哭了一场。
Chen Qin collapsed. He parked his car on the side of the road and cried.
好在考虑到他的特殊情况，当时所在的永嘉县为他“特事特办”——就地隔离。
Fortunately, given his special circumstances, Yongjia County at the time for his "special operation" - in situ isolation.
第15天，陈秦终于住进了旅馆，有床、有热水、一日三餐送到门口，14天2000元。
On the 15th day, Chen Qin finally checked into a hotel with a bed, hot water, three meals a day to the door, 14 days 2000 yuan.
深夜11点，他落脚后的第一件事是洗了个热水澡。
He took a hot bath the first thing after he settled down at eleven in the night.
滞留的这些天里，朋友们给陈秦提了很多建议，最坏的打算也就是把车丢下，只身走出高速公路。
During these days of detention, friends gave Chen Qin a lot of advice, the worst plan is to leave the car, out of the highway alone.
人总归是没事的。
You're gonna be fine.
但把车丢下可能会造成一大笔高速超时费，按小时收取。
But dropping the car could result in a hefty overtime charge, to be charged by the hour.
王雪松和齐敏都担心自己的车，不知道什么时候才能取回，会不会已经被举报拖走了。
Cedar Wang and Qi Min are worried about their cars, do not know when to get back, whether it has been reported to drag away.
陈秦的难言之隐也是钱：他怕被收取超时费，还有下去之后隔离的费用。
Chen's secret was money: he feared being charged for overtime, and the cost of isolation if he went down.
因为钱，他不敢回家过年，也不敢联系妻女。
Because of money, he did not dare to go home to celebrate the New Year, his wife and daughter.
他欠哥哥的债，哥哥认为漂流在外是对他的惩罚。
He owed his brother debt, and his brother thought it a punishment to drift away.
这一路他耗了1500元油钱，相当于在温州一个月的房租。
He spent 1,500 yuan on gas, the equivalent of one month's rent in Wenzhou.
困在路上的时候，信贷公司下了最后通牒，再还不上钱，就要通知他通讯录里的亲友。
Trapped on the road, the credit company issued an ultimatum, and again not to pay, to inform him of the address book friends and relatives.
卡里只剩13.89元，朋友打来一点钱，他才把油加上。
Cary had only 13.89 yuan left. He added the oil only after a little call from his friend.
陈秦至今没能回家，就算回去也没用。
Chen Qin has not been able to go home, even if it is useless.
他不知道这疫情何时结束，餐馆不能开门，员工还在宿舍里困着，他的生意将会崩盘。
He did not know when the outbreak would end, the restaurant would not open, the staff would remain trapped in the dormitory and his business would collapse.
他对南方周末记者说，这一路不算什么，“更痛苦的事情还在后面”。
'It wasn't much of a journey, 'he told Southern Weekend reporter.' More painful things still lie ahead. '
（陈秦、王雪松、齐敏为化名，感谢魏英杰、卢飞为本文提供帮助）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Chen Qin, Wang Cedar, Qi Min as aliases, thanks Wei Yingjie, Lu Fei to provide help for this article) collect Southern Weekend now open to all readers in the front line of the new crown pneumonia news clues.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
下不了的高速：疫情中的现实“囧途”。
Unable to get off the high-speed: the reality of the epidemic "ostracism."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "下不了的高速：疫情中的现实“囧途”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; a reality in the epidemic.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
