疫情中的中小企业： 政府驰援，积极自救。
Small and medium-sized enterprises in the epidemic: the Government rushed to help themselves.
徐庭芳。
Xu Tingfang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
2月10日，在上海一家公司，工作人员在车间内作业。
February 10, in a company in Shanghai, the staff work in the workshop.
（新华社记者 丁汀/图）全文共3166字，阅读大约需要7分钟。
The full text is 3,166 words and takes about seven minutes to read.
千千万万如王平工厂一样的中小企业，是链接上下游的关键。
Thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises like Wang Ping Factory are the key link upstream and downstream.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 徐庭芳责任编辑 | 冯叶近一周来，北京、上海、江西、山东等地都已陆续下发稳定经济的激励措施。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
通过延期缴税、贷款利息补贴、减免租金等方式驰援企业。
We will assist enterprises by way of deferred tax payment, interest subsidy on loans and rent relief.
这些措施主要是为了帮助新冠肺炎疫情之下的中小企业。
The main purpose of these measures is to help small and medium-sized enterprises under the new crown pneumonia epidemic.
根据工信部数据，截止到2018年底，全国中小企业数量已经超过3000万家，个体工商户数量超过7000万户。
By the end of 2018, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises had exceeded 30 million, and the number of individual businesses exceeded 70 million, according to the Ministry of Industry and Communications.
它们贡献了全国50%以上的税收，60%以上的GDP，70%以上的技术创新成果，以及80%以上的劳动就业。
They contribute more than 50 per cent of the country's tax revenue, more than 60 per cent of GDP, more than 70 per cent of technological innovation and more than 80 per cent of labour employment.
恒大研究院在近日发布的一份疫情报告称，伴随疫情减弱，在春节期间对消费的压抑很有可能出现“报复性”反弹，更为深邃的影响将体现在制造业。
As the epidemic subsides, the suppression of consumption during the Spring Festival is likely to "retaliate," with a deeper impact on manufacturing, according to a report released recently by the Hang Seng University Institute.
1生意停摆之后如何继续傅生正考虑卖房还债，因为疫情，手上的几个项目都停摆了，公司年底结算，账上只剩两万。
How to Continue After the Business Stopped Fu is considering selling his house to pay off his debts, because of the epidemic, several items on hand were stopped and the company closed at the end of the year, leaving only 20,000 on its books.
在浙江，他经营着一家污水、废气处理公司。
In Zhejiang, he runs a sewage and waste gas treatment company.
因为浙江很早开启了污染治理工作，当地同类企业少说也有三四十家，这些企业规模不大，大多只有十几号人。
Because Zhejiang started pollution control work very early, local similar enterprises are at least 30 or 40, these enterprises are not large, most of them only a dozen people.
他向南方周末记者介绍，他们的公司大多采取“预付款”制度。
He told Southern Weekend reporter that most of their companies adopted the "advance payment" system.
例如一个100万的中等规模项目，甲方会事先预付30%的金额，在工程全部完成并且验收后才会支付剩余部分。
For example, for a 1 million medium-sized project, Party A will prepay 30% in advance and pay the balance only after the project is completed and accepted.
而一些政府招标项目，甚至不会提供预付款。
Some government tenders do not even provide an advance payment.
但这30万远远不够项目开支。
But that $300,000 is far from enough to cover project costs.
在环保处理这行，最大的成本是设备购买，这项费用需要由工程方垫付。
In the environmental treatment industry, the biggest cost is the purchase of equipment, the cost of which needs to be paid for by the engineering side.
而像傅生这样的小企业主，没有大额的固定资产和抵押，只能通过利息较高的民间短期贷款或者信用卡套现来购买设备，有时甚至只能挪用下一个项目的预付款来填补上一个项目的资金。
And small business owners like Fu Sen, without large fixed assets and mortgages, can only buy equipment through short-term loans or credit cards with high interest rates, and sometimes even divert advance payments from the next project to fund a previous project.
这种模式对公司现金流要求很高，公司要及时完成项目，才能保证准时验收获得尾款。
This model to the company's cash flow requirements are very high, the company to complete the project in time to ensure timely acceptance of the balance.
傅生向南方周末记者坦言，企业为了维持运作，账上的流水不会超过两个月，万事皆靠“熬”。
Fu told Southern Weekend reporter that in order to maintain the operation, the account will not run for more than two months, everything depends on the "boil."
突如其来的疫情彻底打乱了公司计划，由于公司多为外来员工，按照此次春节延迟一周上班的规定，加上返工后还需隔离两周，开工要比原定的复工计划推迟近一个月。
The sudden outbreak completely disrupted the company's plans, which began nearly a month later than originally planned, as the company was staffed mostly by outsiders, a week behind schedule for the Spring Festival holiday and a two-week hiatus after the rework.
“好几个项目都是设备我已经全部采购回来了，就等着过完年马上去装，但现在只能全部堆在仓库里，甲方也不可能现在给我们钱。
"Several items are equipment that I have already purchased and are waiting to be loaded immediately after the new year, but now they are all in the warehouse and Party A can't give us any money now.
”傅生有些焦急。
"Fu was anxious.
收入被掐断了，支出却只增不减。
Income has been cut off, but spending has only increased.
按相关部门规定，疫情期间的假期必须按照正常工资发放，如果需要提前用工还需要发放两倍工资。
Vacations during the epidemic period must be paid at the normal rate, as defined by the relevant authority, and twice as much if early employment is required.
而据傅生透露，这一行的师傅都是至少五年以上经验的熟练工种，每月的基本工资就超过万元，如果加上项目奖金、差旅费用，一位师傅的用工成本超过两万。
According to Fu, the master of the industry is skilled workers with at least five years' experience, with a monthly basic salary of more than RMB10,000. If bonus and travel expenses are added, the cost of employing a master exceeds 20,000.
按照一个项目平均两个月计算，光是用工成本就要近40万，如果让工人加急赶工，无疑又是一笔支出，如果等员工自然复工，自己无论如何“拖不起”。
At an average of two months per project, the cost of employment alone would be close to 400,000, and it would be another expense to have workers working on an accelerated basis if they waited for the workers to return to work naturally.
“本来我们放假就早，这么一来相当于两个多月停工，工资照发，社保、房租都得付，还有银行贷款利息。
"We had an early holiday, which meant more than two months of work stoppage with pay, social security, rent, and interest on bank loans.
”傅生唯一想到的只有卖房。
The only thing that came to mind was selling houses.
相比之下，内容创业者杨霄觉得庆幸，过年前，自己还未下发员工的年终奖，“当时还觉得挺过意不去，要是发了，公司可能就过不去这个坎儿了”。
In contrast, content entrepreneur Yang Xiaxiao felt lucky, before the New Year, he has not issued the annual bonuses of employees, "I still feel sorry, if made, the company may not be able to go through this.
人力成本是内容创业团队支出的大头，受疫情影响，不仅放假时间延长，自己的广告、线下活动收入都大幅下降。
Manpower costs are the major part of the content startup team expenditure, affected by the epidemic, not only holiday time extension, their own advertising, off-line activities revenue has fallen significantly.
他估计，未来一段时间内团队收入都会明显缩水。
He estimates that team earnings will shrink significantly over the next few months.
在这次疫情中，也有公司直接选择关门止损。
In this outbreak, companies also directly choose to close the door to stop the loss.
赵锋在吉林长春经营着一家银行催收公司，已经干了两年，但他决定暂时关闭公司。
Zhao Feng runs a bank collection company in Changchun, Jilin. He has been working for two years, but he has decided to close the company temporarily.
因为这一行主要是人力成本，公司每个月流水七八万，二十多号人的人工费用占到80%以上，还不包括房租，实际能挣的不多。
Because this industry is mainly manpower costs, the company monthly water 780,000, more than 20 people's labor costs account for more than 80%, not including rent, can actually earn little.
赵锋并不打算放弃催收这个行当，公司关张只是暂时的应对，待疫情稳定，还会再开。
Zhao Feng does not intend to give up this industry, the company closed only temporary response, waiting for the epidemic to stabilize, but will open again.
他唯一有些放不下的是自己的员工，“公司倒了我饿不死，真正难的是普通员工”。
The only thing he couldn't spare was his own staff. "The company is starving me. The real difficulty is the average employee."
2制造业的上下游在无锡，王平经营着一家零部件加工工厂，二十多年的经商经验，令他眼下还未受到太大影响。
Upstream and downstream of the manufacturing industry In Wuxi, Wang Ping runs a component processing plant and has more than 20 years of business experience that hasn't affected him much yet.
他的工厂负责生产消防器具中的某几个零部件，是日本行业龙头企业的定点供货商。
His factory is responsible for the production of certain parts in the fire appliances, is Japan's leading industry suppliers.
通常完成生产后，会由专门的外贸公司报关，货物直发日本。
Usually upon completion of production, the goods will be declared directly to Japan by a special foreign trade company.
日本一直没有采取针对疫情的限制进口措施。
Japan has not taken measures to restrict imports in response to the epidemic.
也就是说，王平暂时只受到假期延期的影响，他手中的一批货物只要等待外贸公司上班后就能运输。
In other words, Wang Ping is only temporarily affected by the extension of the holiday, he has a batch of goods as long as waiting for foreign trade companies to work after the shipment.
而且疫情属于合同中的“不可抗力因素”，自己延迟发货不算违约。
And the outbreak of disease is a "force majeure factor" in the contract, their own delay is not a breach of contract.
王平比较幸运的地方在于，苏南地区用工多为本地人，所以工人不需要额外的隔离期，工厂能够尽早动工。
Wang Ping is fortunate that most of the jobs in southern Jiangsu are locals, so workers do not need additional quarantine periods, and factories can begin construction as soon as possible.
但他担忧的是之后，一旦这批库存清空，自己将面临无料可供、无货可发的情况。
But he is worried that once the inventory is empty, he will face the unexpected and non-availability of goods.
自疫情渐起，工厂所在的园区已经全部停工，随后是物流的限制，“我们的货出不去，外面的原材料进不来”。
Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the plant has been located in the park has been completely closed, followed by logistical constraints, "we can not get out of the goods, outside raw materials can not enter."
千千万万如王平工厂一样的中小企业，是链接上下游的关键。
Thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises like Wang Ping Factory are the key link upstream and downstream.
江苏之所以能成为全球知名的制造中心，正是因为完备的产业链和快捷的物流。
Jiangsu can become the world-famous manufacturing center, precisely because of the complete industrial chain and fast logistics.
“我们厂的各种零部件都是在周边地区采购，采购车程不超过三个小时。
"All the parts and components of our factory are purchased in the surrounding area, and the purchase distance is no more than three hours.
”王平说。
"said Wang Ping.
然而局部地区封锁意味着生产资源的缺乏，又或是物流成本的上升，这一切最终体现在商品价格上。
Local blockades, however, mean a lack of productive resources or a rise in logistics costs, all of which are ultimately reflected in commodity prices.
这对原本就采取薄利多销策略的国内出口行业来说并非好消息。
This is not good news for the domestic export industry, which has adopted a thin-selling strategy.
王平预计，最好的情况是，疫情很快得到控制，工厂加紧恢复生产，可能会损失一些短期的人工费用。
At its best, Wang predicted, the outbreak would be quickly contained and factories would resume production more quickly, with some short-term labor costs likely to be lost.
如若疫情短时间内无法得到遏制，各地区间为了控制疫情严防死守，运输严重受阻，即便工人到位，工厂也将缺少生产材料，这也将逼迫采购方不得不将订单转投全球其他地区，以弥补缺失的产能。
If the epidemic is not contained within a short period of time, transportation will be severely hampered in all sectors to contain the outbreak, and even if workers arrive, factories will lack production materials, which will force buyers to divert orders to other parts of the world to make up for lost capacity.
比如江苏苏州，国际500强企业强生、三星电子以及富士康等公司都在此设有工厂。
In Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, for example, the Fortune 500 companies Johnson & Johnson, Samsung Electronics and Foxconn have factories here.
就在富士康中国工厂表明会延长春节假期后，苹果首席执行官蒂姆·库克（Tim Cook）表示，iPhone将寻找替代供应商以弥补生产损失。
Tim Cook, Apple's chief executive, said the iPhone would seek alternative suppliers to offset production losses after Foxconn's China plant said it would extend the holiday.
3自救与他救各地政府已开始行动。
Help Yourself With Him Governments around the world have begun to act.
比如北京，正鼓励大型商务楼宇、商场、市场运营方对中小微租户适度减免疫情期间的租金，各区对采取减免租金措施的租赁企业可给予适度财政补贴。
Beijing, for example, is encouraging large commercial buildings, shopping malls and market operators to provide modest rent relief to MSMEs during the period of the epidemic, and various districts can provide appropriate financial subsidies to lease enterprises that adopt rent reduction measures.
“小微企业太难了，不替他们分担一下，客户真的要倒下一半。
"It's so difficult for micro and small businesses not to share for them that the customer is really going to fall by half.
”联合办公社区米域创始人冯印陶对此忧心忡忡。
Feng Yintao, founder of the United Office Community Rice, is worried.
米域的租户绝大部分都是小微企业和创业团队。
The majority of tenants in the rice domain are microenterprises and entrepreneurial teams.
虽然还没有出现大范围的退租，但租户们都在讨论裁员以及最坏打算。
While there has been no widespread renting, tenants are discussing layoffs and worst-case scenarios.
为了帮助自己的客户，米域宣布无条件免去入驻米域会员1月31日至2月9日（共10天）产生的会员服务费及租金，如果选择延长协议30天，还可以免去2月10日至2月19日（共10天）的会员服务费，这至少会给米域带来500万的损失。
To help his customers, Rice announced an unconditional waiver of membership fees and rental charges from Jan 31 to Feb. 9 (10 days), as well as a 10-day extension of the agreement from Feb. 10 to Feb. 19 (for a total of 10 days), which would cost rice fields at least $5 million.
近日，万达、大悦城等五百多家商业物业主，已经宣布主动减免商户租金。
Recently, Wanda, Big Yue City and other more than 500 commercial property owners, has announced the initiative to reduce or reduce rent.
美的商业宣布减免一个月租金及物管费，红星美凯龙免除自营商场商户任意一个月租费，华润置地减免全国各商业项目所有店铺16天租金。
Merchandise Trade announced a monthly rent reduction and rehousing fee waiver, Red Star Merkailong free of any monthly rental fee, China Resources all commercial projects all shops rent for 16 days.
冯印陶形容这是“唇亡齿寒”，他坦言，同为创业企业，米域现金流同样不宽裕，但这个时候“帮客户也是帮我们自己”。
Mr Feng described it as "a bitter cold," admitting that rice cash flow was also poor for startups, but "helping customers is also helping us."
多地也提出社保征收延期。
Many also proposed social security levy extension.
北京市人力资源和社会保障局局长徐熙表示，对旅游、住宿、餐饮、会展、商贸流通、交通运输、教育培训、文艺演出、影视剧院等受影响较大的行业企业，可将疫情影响期间应缴社会保险费征收期延长至7月底。
Xu Xi, director of the Beijing Bureau of Human Resources and Social Security, said that enterprises in highly affected industries such as tourism, accommodation, catering, convention and exhibition, trade circulation, transportation, education and training, theatrical performances, film and television drama schools could extend the period of collection of social insurance premiums payable during the epidemic period to the end of July.
据其测试，仅住宿、餐饮两个行业，北京市就有1.7万家企业、24万职工参保，此项政策为这两个行业就缓冲了3.2亿元压力。
According to the test, 17,000 enterprises and 240,000 employees in Beijing alone have joined the scheme, a policy that has cushioned the two industries by 320 million yuan.
再比如上海，将继续对不裁员、少减员、符合条件的用人单位返还单位及其职工上年度实际缴纳失业保险费总额的50%。
Shanghai, for example, will continue to pay 50 percent of the total unemployment insurance premiums paid in the previous year by employing units and their employees who do not lay off staff or reduce staff or meet the requirements.
该项政策实施后，预计2020年将有约14万家用人单位受益，减负约26亿元。
The implementation of the policy is expected to benefit about 140,000 employers in 2020, reducing the burden by about $2.6 billion.
作为外商投资聚集地，苏州市政府很早就向全社会公布了经济扶持政策，除去同样在延缴社保、减免房租上做文章，苏州还鼓励各银行机构通过压降成本费率，加大对小微企业的支持力度，在原有贷款利率水平上下浮10%以上，确保2020年小微企业融资成本不高于2019年同期融资成本。
As a gathering place for foreign investment, the government of Suzhou early announced the economic support policy to the whole society, except for the extension of social security contributions and rent relief. Suzhou also encouraged banking institutions to increase their support to micro and small enterprises by lowering their cost rates by more than 10 per cent above the original loan interest rates to ensure that the financing costs for MSMEs in 2020 are not higher than for the same period in 2019.
许多专家也提出进一步减税降费。
Many experts are also proposing further tax cuts.
中国社科院全球宏观经济研究室主任张斌近日接受采访时称，无论是针对特定企业的减税还是针对特定人群的补贴，这些支出不应该由企业或者居民部门来承担，同时地方政府不能乱花钱，更应该由中央政府来负责。
Whether it's tax cuts for specific companies or subsidies for specific groups of people, these expenditures should not be borne by companies or residential departments, and local governments should not spend too much, but rather the central government, Zhang Bin, director of the Center for Global Macroeconomics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, said in a recent interview.
（应受访者要求，赵锋、傅生、王平、杨霄为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(At the request of the respondents, Zhao Feng, Fu Sheng, Wang Ping and Yang Xiaoxiao, called Southern Weekend, are now openly soliciting news leads from all readers on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中的中小企业： 政府驰援，积极自救。
Small and medium-sized enterprises in the epidemic: the Government rushed to help themselves.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情中的中小企业： 政府驰援，积极自救";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; government assistance;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
