火神山医院背后的“战疫密码”。
The "plague code" behind the Mount Fire Hospital.
王紫。
Violet Wang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月4日，医护人员将患者转运至武汉火神山医院病房。
February 4, medical staff will transfer the patient to Wuhan Huoshen mountain hospital ward.
（新华社记者 肖艺九/图）全文共7126字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
The full text is 7126 words and takes about 14 minutes to read.
火神山医院从开工到交付使用，只用了大约10天时间，不仅吸引了国内数千万网友通过直播担当“云监工”，也让世界见证了中国速度。
It took only about 10 days from the start of construction to commissioning, attracting tens of millions of netizens from home to serve as "cloud supervisors" via live broadcast and let the world witness the speed of China.
这座“武汉版小汤山”医院时刻牵动着全国人民的目光，也承担着巨大的期望。
This "Wuhan Edition of Xiaotangshan" hospital always touches the eyes of the whole country, but also bears great expectations.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末特约撰稿 王紫南方周末实习生 李睿童责任编辑 | 姚忆江2020年2月8日，国人度过了一个格外难忘的元宵节。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reproduce & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; Southern Weekend Guest Writer & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
火神山医院交付军方已有一周时间。
Mount Fujimori Hospital has been handed over to the military for a week.
2月8日下午1时30分左右，第四批确诊患者分别从汉口医院、武汉市第六医院、武汉市红十字会医院转诊而来，陆续抵达火神山医院。
On February 8 at about 1.30 p.m., the fourth batch of confirmed patients from Hankou Hospital, Wuhan Sixth Hospital, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital and other referrals arrived at Mount Huoshen Hospital.
当晚7时50分，“武汉火神山医院”官方微博正式上线，向公众更新了医院近况：“火神山医院已收治数百个新冠肺炎确诊患者！”彼时，医院刚刚投入使用不到一周。
At 7: 50 pm, the official Weibo official Weibo in Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital updated the public with the latest news: "Huoshen Mountain Hospital has admitted hundreds of newly diagnosed cases of pneumonia!"
2月2日上午，武汉市市长周先旺和联勤保障部队白忠斌副司令员在武汉火神山医院签署互换交接文件，火神山医院正式交付军方。
On the morning of February 2, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang and Vice Commander Bai Zhongbin of the Logistics Support Force signed the handover documents at Wuhan Huoshen Mountain Hospital, which was handed over to the military.
火神山医院院长张思兵大校对媒体表示：“我们有信心、有决心落实好习主席的指示要求，打赢这场防疫的阻击战。
"We are confident and determined to carry out Xi's instructions and win the battle against epidemic prevention," the dean of Mount Huo's hospital, Senior Colonel Zhang Sibing, told the media.
”与疫情战斗，刻不容缓。
The fight against the epidemic is urgent.
2月2日凌晨，8架中国空军伊尔76运输机从沈阳、兰州、广州、南京起飞，装载了795名军队支援湖北医疗队队员和58吨物资，陆续降落在武汉天河机场，为火神山医院“开张”做好准备。
In the early morning hours of February 2, eight Air Force IL-76 transport planes took off from Shenyang, Lanzhou, Guangzhou and Nanjing, carrying 795 troops to support members of the Hubei medical team and 58 tons of supplies.
“疫情就是命令，防控就是责任，时间就是生命。
"Epidemic is command, control is responsibility, time is life.
”农历大年初二，中国卫生防疫专家陈薇少将临危受命赶赴武汉。
On the second day of the Lunar New Year, Chinese health and epidemic prevention expert Major General Chen Wei was ordered to Wuhan.
除了陈薇，还有黄文平、陈红、毛青……这些近日出现在媒体上的军医，连同其他出征的1400名军人，都有一个共同的前缀——军队支援湖北医疗队队员。
In addition to Chen Wei, there are Huang Wenping, Chen Hong, Mao Qing... these recently appeared in the media, along with other 1400 soldiers, have a common prefix - military support to Hubei Medical Corps members.
“我想请全国人民放心，在疫情面前，我们中国人民解放军誓死不退，一定护佑大家的平安和健康。
"I want to reassure the nation that in the face of the epidemic, we, the People's Liberation Army, are determined to protect the safety and health of all.
”其中一位队员马凌说出了中国军队医护人员的心声。
"One of the players, Ma Ling, spoke for Chinese army medical staff.
火神山医院从开工到交付使用，只用了大约10天时间，不仅吸引了国内数千万网友通过直播担当“云监工”，也让世界见证了中国速度。
It took only about 10 days from the start of construction to commissioning, attracting tens of millions of netizens from home to serve as "cloud supervisors" via live broadcast and let the world witness the speed of China.
这座“武汉版小汤山”医院时刻牵动着全国人民的目光，也承担着巨大的期望。
This "Wuhan Edition of Xiaotangshan" hospital always touches the eyes of the whole country, but also bears great expectations.
2003年，为控制SARS疫情，北京小汤山定点医院7天建成，两个月内收治全国七分之一的SARS患者，实现了“提高治愈率、降低病死率、确保零感染”，成为疫情由严峻走向缓和的转折点。
In 2003, in order to control the SARS epidemic, the Xiaotangshan Dingshan Hospital in Beijing was built in seven days, treating one in seven SARS patients in two months.
这一次，人们期盼着火神山医院，同样担负起顺利抗击新型冠状病毒的使命。
This time, people look forward to the fire Shenshan Hospital, also took on the mission of successfully fighting the new coronavirus.
1“拿出最充分的方案，准备最长期的奋战”武汉知音湖畔的火神山医院，占地面积6万平方米，其中医疗区3.5万平方米，办公生活区2.5万平方米。
"Take the fullest plan to prepare for the most long-term battle." Wuhan Boxing Lake Fire Mountain Hospital covers an area of 60,000 square meters, including 35,000 square meters in medical areas and 25,000 square meters in office living areas.
医疗区编设床位1000张，共设置19个病区单元。
The medical district has 1,000 beds and has 19 units.
医院集中收治新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者，不设门诊，开设重症监护病区、重症病区、普通病区，设置感染控制、检验、特诊、放射诊断等辅助科室。
The hospital will concentrate on treating pneumonia patients with new coronavirus infection. There will be no out-patient clinics, and auxiliary departments for infection control, testing, special consultation and radiologic diagnosis will be set up in the intensive care, severe and common areas.
火神山医院正式交付军方投入使用后，施工仍在紧张进行。
Construction of the Mount Huoshen Hospital continued after it was officially handed over to the military for use.
为了尽快接收病人，医院进入“边接诊边建设”阶段。
In order to accept the patients as soon as possible, the hospital has entered the stage of "receiving treatment while building."
2020年2月4日上午9时30分左右，火神山医院开始接收第一批患者。
On 4 February 2020, at around 9.30 a.m., Mount Huoshen Hospital began receiving the first group of patients.
10辆救护车载着来自武昌医院、汉口医院和武汉市中心医院的45名新型冠状病毒确诊患者，陆续驶入火神山医院。
Ten ambulances loaded with 45 patients diagnosed with the new coronavirus from Wuchang Hospital, Hankou Hospital and Wuhan Central Hospital were admitted to Mount Huoshen Hospital.
“救护车进来了！”“一病区做好接收病人准备！”医院感染七科病房外，救护车刚刚停稳在转诊交接区域，身着C级防护服的护士陈红第一个走上前，和同事们熟练地接过担架，将患者轻轻转移到担架车上。
"Ambulance is coming in!" "Prepare to receive patients in one area!" Outside the hospital infection section, the ambulance had just stopped in the referral area, and Chen Hong, a nurse in a C-shirt, was the first to take over the stretcher with her colleagues and gently transfer the patient to the stretcher.
“你们要安心养病，你们有需要，我们会尽最大努力给你解决。
"You will be well enough to recover from your illness. If you need it, we will do our best to help you out.
”参加过SARS、埃博拉病毒等重大疫情救护的陈红，细心安慰患者。
Chen, who has participated in major epidemics such as SARS and Ebola, comforted patients with care.
其他医护人员着手扫描转诊患者身份凭条上的二维码，患者前期的就诊信息立即生成了电子病历，迅速显示出患者的病房床位、管床医生和护士的姓名。
Other paramedics began scanning the two-dimensional code on the patient's identity slip, and the patient's pre-clinical information immediately generated an electronic medical record that quickly showed the patient's bed, the name of the tube-bed physician and the nurse.
病患很快被安置在改造完毕的病房内。
The patient was quickly placed in a converted ward.
火神山医院每间病房内设有两张病床，配备独立的卫生间和盥洗室，还有一个玻璃窗方便医护人员拿取物品。
There are two beds in each ward of Fo Shen Shan Hospital, equipped with separate toilets and washrooms, and a glass window to facilitate medical staff to pick up items.
病房里，均设置了单独不循环利用的通风、消毒系统，确保房内气体经过消毒后才排出。
Ward, have set up a separate non-recycling ventilation, disinfection system, to ensure that the room gas after disinfection before discharge.
“您好！我是您的主治大夫，我姓谢，您叫我谢大夫就可以了。
"My name is Xie. Just call me Doctor Xie.
在这里，我们一起努力，争取早日康复！”有着27年临床经验的医生谢华，一番开场白让患者放松了许多。
Here, we work together for a quick recovery, "says Xie Hua, a doctor with 27 years of clinical experience.
他们相互还比了一个“胜利”的手势。
They also made a gesture of "victory" against each other.
另一间病房的女患者病情较重，护士孟颖、王晶轻轻地将患者挪到病床，一起为患者换上蓝白相间的病号服，然后为她进行鼻导管吸氧和心电监护……“为了顺利收治患者，大家一连好几天都没睡好觉。
Meng Ying, a nurse, and Wang Jing gently moved the patient to a hospital bed, changed her into a blue-and-white uniform, and administered oxygen inhalation and electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring to her nose.
”病房的通道上，感染七科一病区主任马壮略显疲倦。
On the hallway of the ward, Ma Zhuang, director of the seven-ward infected area, was slightly tired.
在转运完半数的患者后，护士郭晨晨因长时间穿着防护服，加上高强度工作，出现中暑现象，晕倒在岗位上。
After the transfer of half of the patients, nurses Guo Chenchen wearing protective clothing for a long time, coupled with high-intensity work, the phenomenon of heatstroke, fainted on duty.
大冬天里人竟然会中暑？原来，医护人员穿上厚厚的防护服后，二十分钟就会汗流浃背，连一口水都顾不上喝。
In winter, people get heatstroke. After putting on thick protective clothing, they are sweating profusely for 20 minutes and can't even take a sip of water.
紧跟医护人员进行报道的军事记者陈刚发现，穿上防护服两小时后，脱衣时，身上的衣服已经可以直接拧出水来。
Chen Gang, a military reporter close to the medical staff, found his clothes were ready to be wrung out of water two hours after wearing protective clothing.
中暑后，郭晨晨仍不能脱掉防护服，更不能把口罩摘下，只能暂作休息，随后继续投入新一轮救治工作。
After heatstroke, Guo Chenchen still can not take off the protective clothing, can not take off the mask, can only take a rest, and then continue to put in a new round of treatment.
这位平时爱说爱笑的姑娘来自解放军联勤保障部队某医院。
The normally laughing girl came from a PLA hospital.
2020年2月2日，郭晨晨和战友们一起从南京出发，“逆行”前往武汉。
On February 2, 2020, Guo Chenchen and his comrades set out from Nanjing, "retrograde" to Wuhan.
在首批患者抵达火神山医院的前一天晚上，为了做好充分的准备，她和战友们只睡了三个小时。
She and her comrades slept only three hours the night before the first patients arrived at Mount Fujimori Hospital, getting ready.
疫情紧急，八方支援。
Emergency, eight-way support.
火神山医院建设如火如荼的十天里，数千名各地联勤保障部队所属医院的军队医务人员递交了请战书，申请被选调到武汉疫情一线队伍。
Thousands of military medical personnel from the PLA hospitals around the country have submitted applications for deployment to the Wuhan frontline team during the ten days of construction of the Huoshen Mountain Hospital.
在支援武汉的同时，各地医院也紧急打响了本地防疫战，紧急组建抗击新型冠状病毒医疗分队，形成应急保障预案，启动发热门诊，抽组应急医疗分队，组织医务人员进行防控知识培训。
While supporting Wuhan, hospitals around the world have also started an emergency local epidemic prevention campaign, set up an emergency medical team to fight against the new coronavirus, formed a contingency plan, set up a fever clinic, drawn up emergency medical teams and organized medical personnel to carry out prevention and control knowledge training.
位于武汉的中部战区总医院，是最早投入抗击疫情的军队医院之一，除担负本院的收治任务外，还派出两支医疗队驰援地方医院，全力救治患者。
Wuhan, located in the central war zone hospital, is one of the first to put into the fight against the epidemic, in addition to the hospital's task, but also sent two medical teams to assist local hospitals, full treatment of patients.
奔赴武汉的先锋部队中，有军人，也有文职人员；有人已经退休，有人已列入转业计划……面对疫情，他们毫不犹豫地退掉了飞机票、火车票，放弃了原定的休假计划，牺牲了与家人团聚的时光，坚守在岗位上。
In the face of the epidemic, they did not hesitate to give up airfares, train tickets, give up their vacation plans, sacrifice time with their families and stick to their posts.
2020年1月24日，在中国传统节日除夕夜，海军军医大学、陆军军医大学、空军军医大学组建的3支医疗队已经先一步抵达武汉。
On January 24, 2020, on the eve of the Chinese traditional New Year's Eve, three medical teams from the Military Medical University, the Army Military Medical University and the Air Force Medical University arrived in Wuhan first.
每支医疗队150人，分指挥组、普通患者治疗分队和危重症患者救治分队，配备呼吸科、感染性疾病科、医院感染控制科、重症监护室等医学专家。
Each unit has 150 members, including a command group, a general patient treatment unit and a critical care unit, staffed by medical specialists such as respirators, infectious diseases, hospital infection control and intensive care units.
据新华社消息，火神山医院的医疗力量来自全军不同的医疗单位。
According to Xinhua News Agency, the medical force of Mount Huoshen Hospital comes from different medical units of the army.
其中，联勤保障部队所属医院抽组950人，与解放军派出海陆空军3支医疗队、450人纳入统一编组。
Of these, 950 personnel were drawn from the hospital of the United Nations Logistics Force, 3 medical teams from the PLA, and 450 troops from the PLA.
此外，解放军疾病预防控制中心、军事科学院军事医学研究院抽组15名专家组成联合专家组，现地指导医院疫情防控工作。
In addition, the PLA Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Institute of Military Medicine of the Academy of Military Sciences have drawn 15 experts to guide the prevention and control of the epidemic in hospitals.
这支1400人医疗“援军”中，不少人曾参加过抗击SARS，以及援助塞拉利昂、利比里亚抗击埃博拉疫情的任务，具有丰富的传染病救治经验。
Many of the 1,400 medical "reinforcements" have had extensive experience in fighting SARS and fighting Ebola in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
术业有专攻，老将出马，无疑更能稳定军心、安定民心。
Operation industry has specialized expertise, veteran out of the horse, no doubt more stable army heart, peace of mind.
时隔17年，当新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情再次来势汹汹席卷大地，许多“抗非英雄”义无反顾，重返战场。
Seventeen years later, when pneumonia, a new coronavirus infection, swept across the land again, many "non-heroes" returned to the battlefield.
2003年成功救治全球第一例SARS患者的黄文杰，曾荣立一等功，如今是南部战区总医院呼吸内科主任。
Huang Wenjie, who successfully treated the world's first case of SARS in 2003, is now the head of respiratory medicine at the Southern theater general hospital.
面对此次重大疫情，黄文杰第一时间要求到武汉最危险前线。
In the face of this major epidemic, Huang Wenjie the first time to Wuhan's most dangerous front.
在火神山医院接收第一批患者后，他立刻参加专家联合会诊，针对病患出现的症状，分析重难点，与其他专家一起共研诊治方案。
Immediately after receiving the first group of patients at Mount Fukuyama Hospital, he attended a joint expert consultation to analyse the difficulties and work with other specialists on the diagnosis and treatment of the symptoms.
2003年SARS疫情来袭时，北部战区总医院的前身沈阳军区总医院牵头抽组76名医疗队员出征北京小汤山，历经66天日夜抢救，创下了“零感染、零失误”的救治佳绩。
When the SARS epidemic hit in 2003, Shenyang Military Area Command Hospital, the predecessor of the Northern War Area General Hospital, led a group of 76 medical personnel on a 66-day rescue mission to Xiaotangshan, Beijing.
得悉武汉疫情危急，北部战区总医院一千余名医务人员主动向党组织递交请战书，申请加入防控新型冠状病毒感染的第一线。
To learn that Wuhan is in critical condition, more than 1,000 medical personnel from the Northern War Department General Hospital volunteered to submit their applications to the Party organizations to join the frontline of prevention and control of the new coronavirus infection.
“拿出最充分的方案，准备最长期的奋战。
"Get the best out of the game and prepare for the longest fight.
”中国首席生化武器防御专家陈薇少将也来了。
Major General Chen Weiwei, chief biological and chemical defence expert from China, is also here.
作为军事科学院军事医学研究院研究员，陈薇曾成功研制首个纳入国家战略储备的重组疫苗，成为“生物危害防控”国家创新团队的学术领头人，更在阻击SARS、抗击埃博拉等多场“战疫”中取得重大研究成果。
As a researcher at the Institute of Military Medicine of the Academy of Military Sciences, Chen has successfully developed the first recombinant vaccine to be included in the national strategic reserve, become the academic leader of the National Innovation Team on "Bio-hazard Prevention and Control," and have made great achievements in stopping SARS and fighting Ebola.
2003年SARS期间，包括小汤山医院在内，全国三十余所SARS定点医院近14000名医护人员，使用了陈薇研发的“重组人干扰素ω喷雾剂”，结果无一例感染。
During the SARS period of 2003, nearly 14,000 medical personnel from more than 30 designated SARS hospitals nationwide, including Xiaotangshan Hospital, used the recombinant human interferon spray developed by Chen Wei.
此次深入武汉疫区，短短数日内，陈薇团队在武汉移动检测实验室中实现了新型冠状病毒快速检测，加快了确诊速度。
This deep into Wuhan epidemic area, within a few days, Chen Wei's team in Wuhan mobile detection laboratory to achieve a new-style fast detection of coronavirus, speed up the diagnosis.
更多的挑战，还在等待着前线战士。
More challenges await the front-line fighters.
随着火神山医院建设和配套设施逐步完善，多个病区交付使用，将陆续接诊更大数量的确诊患者，与时间赛跑，与病毒作战。
With the gradual improvement of the construction and supporting facilities of Mount Huoshen Hospital and the commissioning of many disease areas, a greater number of confirmed patients will be treated in a race against time to fight the virus.
2为什么由他担任火神山医院院长？”日历向前翻页，时间回到农历新年前。
Why was he the director of Mount Fire Hospital? The calendar turned forward to return to the Chinese New Year.
突如其来的疫情，在岁末年初袭击了中国，正赶上了人流量极大的春运时期，又选择了武汉这样一座中心枢纽城市。
Sudden epidemic, hit China in the end of the year, just in time for the very high flow of people during the Spring Festival, and chose Wuhan such a central hub city.
这种狡猾的病毒，传染性强、潜伏周期长，一时间，担忧与恐惧情绪在人群中蔓延开来。
This cunning virus, infectious, long incubation period, for a time, worry and fear spread in the crowd.
“我们是专业的，让我们先上吧！”面对凶险疫情，中国军队发挥专业对口经验丰富、处置疫情流程熟悉等优势，以战时状态、战时思维开展救治工作。
"In the face of a dangerous epidemic, the Chinese armed forces have the advantage of having extensive experience in handling epidemic diseases and are familiar with the procedures for handling such diseases.
随着武汉火神山医院正式交付人民军队医务工作者，备受瞩目的医院院长张思兵也正式亮相。
Along with Wuhan fire god mountain hospital formally delivers the people army medical worker, the remarkable hospital director Zhang Sibing also officially appears.
“张思兵是谁？为什么由他担任火神山医院院长？”据公开消息，张思兵出生于1969年，此前身份是解放军总医院卫勤部部长，曾任解放军总医院医疗处处长，解放军总医院海南分院医务部主任，解放军总医院医务部副主任、主任等职。
"Who is Zhang Sibing? Why was he the director of the Mount Fire Hospital?" Zhang was born in 1969 as the head of the PLA General Hospital's Medical Department, the General Hospital's Hainan Branch Chief of the PLA General Hospital, and the PLA General Hospital's Deputy Director and Director of the Medical Service, according to public sources.
解放军总医院（301医院）创建于1953年，是集医疗、保健、教学、科研于一体的大型现代化综合性医院，直属于中国人民解放军联勤保障部队。
The PLA General Hospital (301 Hospital), founded in 1953, is a large-scale modern comprehensive hospital integrating medical care, health care, teaching and scientific research.
从履历上看，张思兵被选为火神山医院院长，与他参加过抗击SARS、援建小汤山医院等重大任务的经历密切相关。
From the resume, Zhang Sibing was elected director of the Mount Fire Hospital, and he participated in the fight against SARS, assistance to build small Tangshan Hospital and other major tasks closely linked.
2003年SARS疫情时期，张思兵所在的解放军第309医院（现更名为解放军总参谋部总医院）成为北京首批收治SARS病人的定点医院。
During the SARS epidemic in 2003, Zhang Sibing's 309 Hospital (now renamed the General Staff Hospital of the PLA) became the first designated hospital in Beijing to treat SARS patients.
在3个月收治SARS患者202人次，有248名医务人员在病房轮流工作的情况下，未发生医务人员感染和住院病人的交叉感染。
There were 202 admissions for SARS patients in 3 months and 248 medical staff working in the wards on a rotating basis. There was no cross-infection among medical staff and in-patients.
根据世界卫生组织统计，在SARS期间感染人群中，20%都是医疗卫生行业工作者，也就是说5个感染者中就会有一位是医护人员。
According to the World Health Organization, 20 percent of those infected during the SARS period were health-care workers, or one in five people infected with the disease.
在抗击SARS初期，医务人员发病率甚至一度高达50%以上。
In the early days of the fight against SARS, the morbidity rate among medical personnel was over 50%.
在此背景下，309医院的“零感染”表现可圈可点，也证实了科学防护对隔离SARS病毒行之有效。
In this context, the "zero infection" performance of 309 hospitals is noteworthy and proves that scientific protection is effective in isolating SARS virus.
SARS疫情结束后，张思兵积累了应对传染病防治和隔离防疫的丰富经验和能力。
After the SARS epidemic ended, Zhang Sibing accumulated rich experience and ability to deal with infectious diseases and quarantine epidemic prevention.
他撰写了一系列关于医护人员安全防护的论文，其中多次强调科学管理的重要性。
He has authored a series of papers on the safety and security of health care workers, many of which emphasize the importance of scientific management.
他指出，医护人员感染SARS病毒的表层原因是个人防护措施不当，或者没有严格区分清洁区、污染区以及通风不良，但通过深入调查分析，他发现上述问题的根源在于管理严重混乱，缺乏及时纠正与有效改进。
He pointed out that the surface of the SARS virus infection was due to improper personal protective measures or a lack of strict separation between clean-up areas, contaminated areas and poorly ventilated areas. However, an in-depth analysis revealed that the root cause of the problem lay in severe management confusion and a lack of timely correction and effective improvement.
他认为，“要吸取经验教训，通过科学的管理，实现医护人员‘零感染’”。
"We should learn from experience and achieve 'zero infection' among medical personnel through scientific management," he said.
在与其他专家合著的论文《严重急性呼吸综合征的医学防护》中，张思兵特意强调了建设负压病房的重要性。
In his paper "Medical Protection of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome," co-authored with other experts, Zhang highlighted the importance of building negative pressure wards.
何为负压病房？原来，配备了特殊的装置后，病房内的气压低于病房外的气压，外面的新鲜空气可以流进病房，病房内被患者污染过的空气则不会直接泄漏到室外，而是通过专门通道排放到固定场所。
What is a negative pressure ward? The air pressure in the ward is lower than that outside the ward, and the fresh air can flow into the ward. The air contaminated by the patient in the ward will not leak directly into the outside but will be discharged into the fixed place through a special passageway.
负压传染病房是解决病房空气污染的最好办法，如无条件，则应建立由清洁区到污染区，由内走廊到病房的正压送新风系统，病房的污染空气经高效过滤装置处理后再排放到室外。
The negative pressure infectious disease room is the best way to solve the air pollution in the ward. If not, a positive pressure fresh air system should be set up from the clean area to the polluted area, from the inner corridor to the ward.
这一回火神山医院建设中，病房都改造成了负压病房，符合WHO(世界卫生组织)规定抢救SARS病人时强调的必备条件。
This time around, the wards have been converted into negative pressure wards, in line with the World Health Organization (WHO) requirements for the rescue of SARS patients stressed.
17年前，张思兵也参与了北京小汤山医院援建工作。
Seventeen years ago, Zhang Sibing also participated in the construction of the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital.
从当年5月1日第一批SARS病人入住，到6月20日最后一批被治愈的患者出院，近两个月时间，小汤山医院收治了全国七分之一的SARS患者。
The first SARS patients were admitted on May 1 of that year, and the last ones cured on June 20. Nearly two months later, Xiaotangshan Hospital treated one in seven SARS patients in the country.
死亡率不到1.2%。
The mortality rate is less than 1.2%.
1383名医护人员更无一人感染，成就了“提高治愈率、降低病死率、确保零感染”的医学奇迹。
1383 health care workers did not have a single infection, achieved "improve the cure rate, reduce the fatality rate, ensure zero infection" medical miracle.
当时，由军队抽调而来的一千多名医护人员进入小汤山，统一进行学习考试，通过后才能上岗。
At that time, more than a thousand medical personnel drawn from the army entered Xiaotangshan to take the uniform study examination, after passing the post.
医院内也实行军事化管理，各临床科室，以军区、军兵种和军医大学为建制，实行垂直式管理，利于统一领导、统一指挥、统一协调和统一行动。
The hospitals are also militarized and run vertically by clinical departments, in the form of military regions, services and military universities, in the interest of unified leadership, unity of command, unity of command, coordination and unity of action.
小汤山医院的设立，有效抑制了SARS的扩散，为抗击疫情取得胜利提供了重要保障。
The establishment of Xiaotangshan Hospital effectively suppressed the spread of SARS and provided an important guarantee for the success of the fight against the epidemic.
如今，参照小汤山模式建成的武汉火神山医院、雷神山医院，作为打赢这场“战疫”的重要环节，同样有着鲜明军队基因，担负着“尽快救人、救命”的使命。
Today, referring to the Xiaotangshan model built by Wuhan Fire God Mountain Hospital, Lei Shenshan Hospital, as an important link in winning this "epidemic," also has a distinct army genes, as soon as possible to save lives, "the mission.
这场战役并不轻松，疫情数据依旧严峻。
The battle has not been easy, and the numbers remain grim.
截至2020年2月10日16时，湖北省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例40260例，每日都有新的确诊病患出现。
As of 16: 00 pm on February 10, 2020, 40,260 confirmed cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection have been reported in Hubei Province.
所幸近几日里，全国除湖北以外地区新增确诊病例连续呈现下降态势。
Fortunately, in recent days, the number of newly confirmed cases outside Hubei has continued to decline.
如果这个趋势能继续保持，众人盼望的疫情“拐点”便能早日来临。
If this trend continues, the hoped-for "inflection point" of the epidemic will come soon.
面对一场硬仗，火神山医院政委原华许下承诺：“不负重托、不辱使命，全力以赴、争分夺秒，与时间赛跑、与病魔较量，坚决遏制疫情蔓延势头，坚决打赢疫情防控阻击战。
In the face of a hard battle, political commissar of the Mount Huo Hospital made a commitment: "not to bear the burden, live up to their mission, spare no effort, seize the moment, race against time and battle the disease, resolutely contain the spread of the epidemic and resolutely win the battle against the disease.
”310天建成的救命医院，与北京小汤山有何不同？事实上，解放军在武汉的后勤保障、物资配送方面，有其独特优势。
"What's the difference between the 310-day lifesaving hospital and Beijing's Xiaotangshan? In fact, the PLA has its own unique advantages in terms of logistics and material distribution in Wuhan.
接手管理火神山医院的解放军联勤保障部队，成立于2016年9月13日，由中央军事委员会直属，总部机关位于武汉，以武汉联勤保障基地为建制领导，下属无锡、桂林、西宁、沈阳、郑州5个联勤保障中心，以及解放军总医院、解放军疾病预防控制中心等。
The PLA Joint Logistics Support Force, established on 13 September 2016 under the direction of the Central Military Commission and with its headquarters in Wuhan, is under the organizational leadership of Wuhan United Logistics Base, with Wuxi, Guilin, Xining, Shenyang and Zhengzhou under its supervision, as well as the PLA General Hospital and the CDC.
武汉是联勤保障基地所在地，也是九省通衢的全国交通节点。
Wuhan, the thoroughfare of nine provinces, is the location of the logistics base and a national transportation node.
面对这次疫情的考验，依托军地一体化保障机制，这座城市逐步实现了高效的运输投送。
Facing the test of this epidemic, the city has gradually realized the efficient transportation delivery with the support of the army-land integration guarantee mechanism.
火神山医院投入使用前夕，联勤保障部队运输投送系统综合运用军用航空、铁路和公路机动三种方式，紧急运用8架军用运输机、1个高铁专列和部分军地运输车，高效将医疗人员和所需物资送抵武汉，迅速反应、争分夺秒。
On the eve of the opening of the Fosen Mountain Hospital, the transport and delivery system of the United Nations Logistics Force combined military aviation, rail and road mobility, employing eight military transport aircraft, one high-speed rail line and some army transport vehicles to deliver medical personnel and supplies to Wuhan in an efficient and rapid manner.
中部战区空军航空兵某师的8架大型运输机，冒雨向武汉紧急空运795名军队援鄂医疗队员和58吨物资。
Eight large transport aircraft belonging to a division of the Central Theatre Air Force flew 795 military medical personnel and 58 tons of supplies to Wuhan in the rain.
同样也是这些空军飞行员，在除夕夜将海陆空军医大学组织的3支军队医疗队送抵武汉。
The same pilots of the Air Force delivered three military medical teams organized by the Army, Navy and Air Force Medical University to Wuhan on New Year's Eve.
这是继2008年汶川、2010年玉树抗震救灾后，中国空军参与非战争军事行动时出动大型运输机数量最多的一次。
This was the largest number of large transport aircraft used by the Chinese Air Force in non-war military operations following the 2008 Wenchuan and 2010 Yushu earthquake relief operations.
带队执行此次任务的空军航空兵某师副师长王全胜说，受领任务后，他们是按照打仗标准，迅速完成了起飞准备。
Wang Quan-sheng, a vice-division commander of the Air Force Air Force division leading the mission, said they had quickly completed their take-off preparations in accordance with war standards.
随着火神山医院、雷神山医院正式接诊患者，医疗物资需求进一步加大，中国军队再次出动。
With the official admission of patients to Mount Huoshen Hospital and Lei Shenshan Hospital, the demand for medical supplies has further increased, and the Chinese army has once again called out.
2月1日，经中央军委批准，根据中部战区命令，由湖北省军区统一协调指挥，驻鄂空军部队、陆军部队、省军区系统、军事院校临时抽调成员，成立抗击疫情运力支援队，主要担负武汉市生活物资供应和运输保障任务。
On February 1, with the approval of the CMC and in accordance with the order of the Central Military Commission, the Hubei military area command was unified and coordinated by the Hubei military region.
一辆辆军绿色的货车在武汉街头奔波往返。
A fleet of army-green lorries roamed the streets of Wuhan.
到了饭点，支援队队员们就坐在马路边，迅速往嘴里扒几口盒饭。
When it was time to eat, the support team sat down by the side of the road and quickly picked a few boxes of rice from their mouths.
据统计，截至2月6日下午16时，运力支援队共出动运输车393台次、官兵939人次，帮助地方及相关医院运送蔬菜、大米、杂粮等生活物资1013.5吨，医疗器械、医院用品、床架、被套等物资7350套（件）。
According to statistics, as at 16: 00 p.m. on February 6, the Transport Support Team had dispatched 393 transport vehicles with 939 troops to help local and related hospitals deliver 1013.5 tons of vegetables, rice and miscellaneous grains, and 7,350 sets (pieces) of medical equipment, hospital supplies, bedstead and bedclothes.
2月4日，解放军联勤保障部队发布了成立以来第一个动员令，号召全体官兵特别是医护人员扛起救治感染群众、保障医疗物资、做好自身防控等任务。
On 4 February, the PLA Joint Logistics Support Force issued its first mobilization order, calling on all officers and soldiers, especially medical personnel, to shoulder the task of treating infected people, safeguarding medical supplies and doing their own prevention and control.
在完成前期医疗防疫物资应急采购的基础上，联勤保障部队继续扩大范围寻找货源，完成了16种医疗防疫物资采购，同时协调相关供应商抓紧开工复工，扩大产能，每天为部队生产供应医用防护服一万多套。
On the basis of completing the emergency procurement of pre-medical epidemic prevention materials, the PLA has continued to expand its search for supply sources, completed the procurement of 16 kinds of medical epidemic prevention materials, and coordinated the work of relevant suppliers to resume work, expand production capacity and supply more than 10,000 medical protection suits to the troops daily.
他们积极协调各地海关和运输投送部门，打通进口防疫物资进关绿色通道，源源不断运往疫情防控一线的物资，为抗疫持久战做好了充分准备。
They have actively coordinated local customs and transportation departments, opened green channels for the import of epidemic prevention materials, and continuously transported supplies to the frontline of epidemic prevention and control, thus making full preparations for the protracted war against the disease.
作为“战疫”主力，军队的医护人员和联勤保障部队兵分两路，与疫情展开了殊死搏斗。
As the main "epidemic," the army's medical personnel and the United Support Force soldiers divided into two ways, and the outbreak of a life-and-death struggle.
2020年1月25日，解放军原总后勤部卫生部部长、原北京小汤山非典医院院长张雁灵与北京小汤山医院副院长邓传福奉命出征，奔赴武汉协助火神山医院的建设工作。
On 25 January 2020, Zhang Yanling, former Minister of Health of the General Logistics Department of the People's Liberation Army and former Director of the SARS Hospital in Xiaotangshan, Beijing, and Vice-President Deng Chuanfu of the Beijing Xiaotangshan Hospital were sent on a mission to Wuhan to assist in the construction of the Mount Fire Hospital.
再次来到抗疫前线，张雁灵忍不住感叹：“比起2003年的小汤山医院，火神山医院的设施设备以及人员的技术力量都在进步发展。
Once again came to the front line of the epidemic, Zhang Yanling could not help but lament: "compared to the 2003 Xiaotangshan Hospital, the facilities, equipment and personnel of Mount Huoshen Hospital are progressing.
”他向媒体介绍，武汉新建的火神山和雷神山两所肺炎专科医院，很多设计标准优于当年，比如增加了ICU病床、重症病房的数量，还设计了两台以上的CT，以及其他先进检验设备。
Wuhan's two new hospitals, the Flamingo Hill and the Mt. Lei Shenshan pneumonia, have many better design standards than they did then, such as increasing the number of ICU beds and intensive care units, designing more than two CT scanners and other advanced test equipment, he told reporters.
如今医护人员们能更好地利用智能和信息化数字化的设备来治疗患者。
Today, health care workers are better able to use intelligent and digitalized devices to treat patients.
信息化是火神山医院一大重要特点。
Informatization is an important characteristic of Fosen Mountain Hospital.
大数据时代，患者信息的汇总分流通不通畅，直接关系到诊疗效率。
In the age of big data, the aggregation of patient information is not smooth, directly related to the efficiency of diagnosis and treatment.
解放军总医院与武汉火神山医院搭建起远程会诊应用系统，通过千兆光纤网络，解放军总医院的专家得以与武汉火神山医院开展视频会诊。
The PLA General Hospital and Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital set up a remote consultation application system. Through the Gigabit Optical Fiber Network, experts from the PLA General Hospital were able to conduct a video consultation with Wuhan Fosen Mountain Hospital.
据有关工作人员介绍，这个系统还可以规范并详细记录医生护士的日常医护工作，可以接收检查检验系统传回来的文字和图像等报告，不再需要安装其他系统。
The system also allows doctors and nurses to standardize and keep detailed records of their day-to-day medical care, receiving reports such as text and images from the inspection system and eliminating the need to install other systems, staff said.
在火神山医院现场，张雁灵听到同事们开玩笑说，火神山这个地名很有意思，正好病毒怕火。
At the scene of the Mount Fire Hospital, Zhang Yanling heard colleagues joke that the name of Mount Fire is very interesting, just the virus afraid of fire.
或许是受这种乐观心态感染，他对这次抗疫奋战充满了信心：“对于重大的传染病和公共卫生事件，我们中国在SARS，以及在上世纪五六十年代都有成功的经验，只要把人民群众发动起来，积极参与，这个事情就好办，并且有希望。
Perhaps inspired by this optimism, he is confident in the battle against the epidemic: "We in China have had successful experiences with SARS and public health events in the 1950" s and 1960 "s. With the mobilization and active participation of the people, this can be done easily and hopefully.
”根据设计专家预计，临时抢建的火神山医院使用寿命在几个月左右。
According to design experts, the makeshift Mount Fire Hospital is expected to last for months or so.
虽然凝聚了无数的心血与智慧，人们却希望它早日“退休”，能在更短时间内就完成使命。
Despite the countless efforts and wisdom, it is hoped that it will soon "retire" and complete its mission in a shorter period of time.
2月8日晚7时50分，武汉火神山医院官博@火神山医院宣告上线，“大家好，我是小火。
February 8 evening 7: 50 p.m., Wuhan fire god mountain hospital official Bo @ fire Shenshan Hospital announced the line, "Hello, I am a small fire.
”立刻吸引了4万粉丝。
It immediately attracted 40,000 fans.
在这则置顶的开张微博下，留言画风很一致：“尽快闭院！”“早日关门大吉！”面对网友们的善意调侃，“小火”的回复也很俏皮：“存在就是为了闭院！”“功必成！身后退！”“武功不废，大门要关！”火神山医院官博的头像是一位站岗哨兵，扛着钢枪，正是疫情关头万千军人的缩影。
"Close the hospital as soon as possible!" "Close the door as soon as possible!" In the face of friendly banter from netizens, "small fire is not waste!" "Wu Gong not waste, the door closed!"
官博简介这样写道：“疫魔不除，誓死不退！”征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
The official blog profile reads: "Epidemics do not remove, vow to death!" Collection of Southern Weekend is now open to all readers in the front line of the New Crown Pneumonia news clues.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
火神山医院背后的“战疫密码”。
The "plague code" behind the Mount Fire Hospital.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "火神山医院背后的“战疫密码”";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; behind the Mount Fire Hospital.
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
