疫情时期的怕与爱：“封城”20天的江城面孔。
Fear and Love in the Epidemic Period: The Face of the City for 20 Days.
谭畅。
Tan Chang.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2020年2月8日，武汉中心医院后湖院区外墙上贴着李文亮的照片，地上摆满人们送来的鲜花。
On February 8, 2020, Wuhan central hospital back lake courtyard area outside the wall affixed to Li Wenliang, the ground is full of people sent flowers.
（受访者供图/图）全文共6660字，阅读大约需要14分钟。
(The full text is 6 660 words. It will take about 14 minutes to read.
“我觉得这一切好陌生，像在做梦一样。
"I felt it was strange, like a dream.
”护士汪俊回想起短短几日前，哪怕是凌晨两点下班，街上还有车流，有烧烤摊，有从KTV走出来的喧闹人群。
Nurse Wang recalled just a few days ago, even after work at 2 a.m., there was traffic on the street, a barbecue stand and a noisy crowd coming out of KTV.
意外留在武汉的王粒丁，决心用镜头记录仍坚守工作岗位的普通人。
Wang Juding, who accidentally stayed in Wuhan, is determined to use the camera to record the ordinary people who still hold on to their jobs.
“这些日常生活中毫不起眼的人们，拼成了这座城市的底色。
"These undistinguished people of everyday life make up the background of the city.
他们是武汉的守城人。
They are the guardians of Wuhan.
”本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 谭畅南方周末特约撰稿 向思琦 闫力元责任编辑 | 何海宁1白玫瑰，哨声，思念曲“普通人之间的悲喜相通，是黑暗里的光。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint & # 45; South Weekend reporter Tan Chang Southern & amp; Co. & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
”“老板在吗？帮我给李医生送束花好吗？”“封城”第十六天，正月十四，武汉一家花艺馆老板陈炜一觉睡醒已是中午。
"" Is the boss there? Will you bring me some flowers for Dr. Li? "" It was noon when Chen Wei, the owner of a flower shop in Wuhan, woke up on the 14th of January.
看见手机里的外卖App弹出顾客咨询，他一时有些懵。
He was stunned to see the phone's take-out App pop-up customer inquiries.
花店从除夕就关门了。
The flower shop has been closed since New Year's Eve.
陈炜原计划回湖北襄阳老家过年，赶上腊月二十九武汉“封城”，未出城的他只得留下来看店。
Chen Wei originally planned to return to Xiangyang, Hubei Province, in time for the Lunar New Year 29 Wuhan "closed city," he had to stay to see the store.
当时在外卖App上随手设置的店铺打烊时间，不知不觉已经结束，可“开城”日期还没有眉目。
At that time in the take-out App set store closing time, unwittingly has ended, but "Kaesong" date has not been set.
新年上门的第一单生意，不接不吉利。
The first new year's business is not an unlucky one.
陈炜问顾客要李医生的电话。
Chen Wei asked the customer to call Dr. Li.
“他去世了，（花）就放医院门口。
"He died and put it in front of the hospital.
”陈炜明白过来。
Chen Wei understood.
“封城”头几天，他也曾如饥似渴地琢磨每一条疫情资讯，这场去年岁末暴发的新冠肺炎大疫情，已从武汉蔓延至全国甚至全球不少国家。
In the first few days of the city, he was also hungry for information about every outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia, which broke out at the end of last year, and spread from Wuhan to many countries in China and around the world.
他知道那个“造谣”被训诫的医生叫李文亮。
He knew that the doctor who had been reprimanded for disinformation was Li Wenliang.
可后来消息实在太多，陈炜索性不再看新闻，每天宅在出租屋里听有声书《穿越寒冬》。
But then the news is too much, Chen Wei simply no longer read the news, every day in the rental room to listen to audio books "through the cold winter."
花店库存是年前留下的，没有缅怀逝者的菊花。
Flower shop inventory is left over from years ago, there is no memory of the deceased chrysanthemum.
陈炜用粉色雾面纸包裹几枝白玫瑰，点缀上紫罗兰，骑电动车送到三公里外的武汉市中心医院后湖院区。
Chen Wei wrapped several white roses in pink fog paper, ornamented with violets and sent an electric car three kilometers away to the backlake courtyard of Wuhan Central Hospital.
在这家医院的呼吸科ICU病房，正月十三晚上九点半，李文亮停止心跳，之后抢救持续了五个多小时。
At 9: 30 pm on January 13, Li Wenliang stopped beating his heart in the respiratory ICU ward of the hospital, after which the rescue lasted more than five hours.
那一夜，江城无眠。
That night, Jiangcheng sleepless.
无数武汉市民彻夜等待，期盼出现奇迹。
Countless Wuhan city residents wait all night, looking forward to a miracle.
抢救无效的消息传出，已是后半夜。
The news that the rescue effort had failed reached midnight.
“那时候我手抖了，手机摔了两次。
"My hand trembled and my phone fell twice.
”家住武汉江岸区的90后姑娘梅歌痛哭一场，起身去洗脸。
The 90-year-old girl, who lives in Wuhan, sobbed bitterly and got up to wash her face.
她的母亲是公务员，这会儿也没睡着，从隔壁房间发来微信，劝她早点休息。
Her mother, a civil servant, had not fallen asleep, and had received a letter from the adjoining room, advising her to rest early.
梅歌是武汉大学的研究生，因为心理健康原因休学两年。
Mei Ge is a graduate student at Wuhan University, suspended for two years for mental health reasons.
本打算春节后回校补完学分，但疫情时期的高度紧张加重了她的焦虑，复学计划恐怕要延迟了。
She planned to return to school after the Spring Festival to make up for her credits, but the high stress of the epidemic exacerbated her anxiety, and plans to resume her studies were likely to be delayed.
担心情绪崩溃，梅歌翻开桌上的阿赫马托娃诗集，强迫自己抄几句诗：“你，像是从桎梏中挣脱/泪水禁不住涌上眼窝/透过泪眼看到了桦树阴下神圣的角落/寂静在你的周围唱起了歌/明朗的太阳把暗处照彻……”第二天天气阴沉，没有明朗的太阳。
Fearing a nervous breakdown, Megan opened Akhmatova's collection of poems on the table and forced herself to transcribe a few lines: You, as if torn from your fetters / tears, could not help but see the sacred corners under the birch trees / Silence sings round you / Anacreontic sun shines through the darkness... "The next day was gloomy and there was no clear sun.
一整个上午，湖北心理咨询师协会开通的心理热线（15342296955）异常安静。
A whole morning, the psychological hotline (15342296955) opened by Hubei Psychological Counsellors Association is very quiet.
热线自武汉“封城”首日开通，此后每天总能接到三四十通求助电话，唯独在李文亮去世后的十二小时里没有铃声响起。
The hotline, which has been open since Wuhan's first day of operation, has received 30 or 40 calls every day, except for the 12 hours since Li's death.
“没有人有力气拿起电话。
"Nobody has the strength to pick up the phone.
”接听热线的心理咨询师杜洺君也身在武汉，她真切感受到人们的情绪在“封城”这二十天里的紧张波动。
Du Zengjun, a counselor who answers the hotline, also lives in Wuhan and feels the tension of people's emotions during the 20-day siege.
正月十四，晚上九时许，梅歌听见呜呜的声音，以为窗户没关好。
On the fourteenth of January, around 9 p.m., Mei Ge heard a whine and thought the window was not closed.
跑到阳台，听出夹杂在风声中的口哨声，她愣住了。
Running to the balcony, she heard a whistle mixed in the wind, she was stunned.
哨声从小区四面八方传来，不太响亮。
The whistle came from all sides of the neighbourhood, not too loud.
或许是害怕传播病毒，基本没人开窗。
Perhaps fear of spreading the virus, almost no one opened the window.
梅歌看见对面楼的住户举着蓝牙音箱，贴着玻璃播放。
Mego saw the occupants of the opposite building holding a bluetooth speakers, playing next to the glass.
哨声持续了三分钟，最后有一个小朋友高喊：“武汉加油！医生再见！”这是武汉市民们的一个约定：在前夜李文亮去世的时间关灯，用电筒或手机向天空射一束光，吹响口哨。
The whistle lasted three minutes, finally a child shouted: "Wuhan refueling! Doctor Goodbye!" This is Wuhan city people's agreement: the night before the death of LiWenLiang turned off the lights, flashlights or mobile phones into the sky, blowing a whistle.
“在沉沉的暗夜，李文亮就是这一束光。
"On a dark night, Li Wenliang is a beam of light.
”武汉作家方方在当天的日记中写道，“这么久了，武汉人能有什么办法化解自己心里的郁闷、悲伤和愤怒呢？或许，这只能这样。
"Wuhan writer Fang Fang wrote in his diary on the same day," What can Wuhan people do to defuse their depression, sadness and anger after all these years?
”也有武汉市民在那天晚上吹奏《思念曲》，被邻居录下视频，上传到互联网。
Some Wuhan residents played "missing song" that evening and were video recorded by neighbors and uploaded to the Internet.
除了小号的悲鸣，视频中隐约可辨拍摄者的抽泣。
In addition to the trumpet's wail, the video faintly discerns the weeping of the filmmaker.
一位网友在视频下留言：“普通人之间的悲喜相通，是黑暗里的光。
One netizen left a message under the video: "The happiness of ordinary people is the light in the dark."
”Play▲2020年2月7日晚上，有武汉市民吹奏《思念曲》纪念李文亮。
On the evening of February 7, 2020, Wuhan city people played "missing song" to commemorate Li Wenliang.
（受访者提供/视频）2N95，黄衣服，自行车“我觉得这一切好陌生，像在做梦一样。
(Respondents provide / video) 2N95, yellow clothes, bicycles "I feel it's strange, like a dream.
”在中国中部这座特大城市，每一个人都如同被骤然扔进大熔炉中，生活被极速改变。
In the mega-city of central China, everyone is thrown into the cauldron as if suddenly, life is being radically transformed.
这场中国公共卫生领域的宏大考验，在8569平方公里的土地上突然而至，直抵每一个武汉人的生死命题。
China's public health field of the great test, 8569 square kilometers of land suddenly arrived, until every Wuhan people's life and death proposition.
李文亮去世后，在武汉市政策研究部门工作的70后闻浩，开始在住所循环播放《夜空中最亮的星》。
After his death, Wen-liang began to circulate "Lightning Stars in the Night Sky" in his residence after 70 years working in Wuhan Policy Research Department.
因为担心自己在工作中沾染病毒、传染妻儿，闻浩在“封城”后离开家，自我隔离在一间小房子里。
Fearing that he was infected with the virus at work, infect his wife and children, Wen Hao left home after "sealing the city" and isolated himself in a small house.
有的同事干脆住在了办公室。
Some co-workers simply live in the office.
“（公务员）不是生活在真空中，这些天我们都很压抑。
"[Civil servants] don't live in a vacuum. We're all depressed these days.
”闻浩说，他一直在思索这场大疫情的得与失。
Wen said he had been thinking about the gains and losses of the pandemic.
早在1月20日，腊月二十六，闻浩已预感武汉要“封城”。
As early as January 20, Lai Yun-26, Wen Hao had a premonition that Wuhan would "seal the city."
当日，国务院同意将新冠肺炎纳入法定传染病乙类管理，但采取甲类传染病的预防、控制措施。
On the same day, the State Council agreed to include the new crown pneumonia in the statutory infectious disease category B management, but to take measures to prevent and control Class A infectious diseases.
“我认真研究了一遍传染病防治法，就意识到了。
"I studied the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases carefully and realized it.
”闻浩没想过提前逃离，“毕竟岗位在这里，家在这里”。
Wen did not want to flee early. "After all, the post is here, the home is here."
绝大多数人没有闻浩的敏锐。
Most people do not have the sharpness of hearing.
他们接收到确切的“封城”指令，已是1月23日，腊月二十九。
They received the exact "Seal of the City" order, which was issued on January 23, the 29th of December.
1月23日凌晨两点，武汉市新冠肺炎疫情防控指挥部发出第1号通告：当日10时起，全市公共交通停运，机场、火车站离汉通道关闭。
On January 23, at 2 a.m., Wuhan Municipal New Crown Pneumonia Control Command issued Notice No. 1: From 10: 00 a.m. on the same day, the city's public transportation, airports and railway stations from Han corridor closed.
然而岁末春运期间，已有五百多万武汉人离开江城。
However, more than five million Wuhan people left Jiangcheng during the Spring Festival.
那时，投资人王粒丁刚醉醺醺地离开长江畔的酒馆。
At that time, investor Wang Gu Ding just left the tavern on the bank of Changjiang River drunk.
对于武汉，王粒丁本是过客。
For Wuhan, Wang Gudingben is a passer-by.
他只预备在回重庆过年的旅程中滞留武汉一晚，会会朋友，没想到遇上“封城”。
He only intends to return to Chongqing in the New Year's journey to stay in Wuhan overnight, will meet friends, did not expect to meet "closed city."
“‘封城’解决了困扰我最大的问题——要不要在离开武汉后回家？这是一个道德困境。
"It's a moral dilemma whether or not to go home after leaving Wuhan, which has solved my biggest problem.
”王粒丁心想，如果回家，对于家人而言他就是一个“有隐患的人”。
Mr Wang thinks he is a "hidden danger" for his family if he returns home.
而“封城”的行政指令帮他做出选择：留在武汉过年。
The "closure" of the administrative instructions to help him make a choice: stay in Wuhan for the New Year.
“封城”第一天，求生欲促使王粒丁迅速出现在一位开诊所的朋友面前。
On the first day of the "Sealing the City," Wang Gelatin quickly appeared in front of a friend who was opening a clinic.
诊所里都是病人，朋友给王粒丁打了提高抵抗力的针，又送了N95口罩。
The clinic is full of patients, friends gave Wang Yu-ding to improve the resistance of the needle, and gave N95 mask.
搬来武汉不足半年的社工郭晶没那么幸运。
Guo Jing, a social worker who moved to Wuhan for less than six months, was not so lucky.
独居的她在慌乱中跑了两趟超市，买了米面、酸奶和蜂蜜。
Living alone in panic she ran to the supermarket twice, bought rice noodles, yogurt and honey.
回家路上想起去药店，口罩和酒精已经售空，感冒药限购。
On the way home, remember to go to the pharmacy, masks and alcohol have been sold out, cold medicine restrictions.
还有一个中年女人拦住郭晶，托买酒精，“她语气急切，像在乞求救命稻草”。
Another middle-aged woman stopped Guo Jing and entrusted him with buying alcohol. "She sounded like she was begging for help."
“封城”让土生土长的武汉人叶坤翌感到极度震惊。
dominating our city dominates our dominating dominating dominating our dominating dominoes.
这位放寒假回家的复旦大学学生开始不自觉地往一些灾难电影上联想，“有一种被抛弃的感觉”。
The Fudan college student, who came home from his winter vacation, began unwittingly to associate disaster movies with "a sense of abandonment."
叶坤翌母亲工作的学校有好几位退休教师感染新冠肺炎后去世，他有两名初中同学的父亲确诊……“一旦跟你有联系的人中招，熟悉的名字一个个传来，就有一种包围圈在逐渐缩小的感觉。
Now we have dominating our dominoes Now our dominating our dominationour dominating our dominationour dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominoes our dominating our dominating world
”同样放假回到武汉的黑龙江大学学生李喆，此时已经出现发热症状。
Also returning to Wuhan on holiday, David Li, a student at Heilongjiang University, has become febrile.
发热门诊里人满为患，除夕夜，他在武汉市第九医院通宵排队才做成CT，结果显示双肺感染，随后确诊住院。
The fever clinic was full, and on New Year's Eve, he queued up overnight at Wuhan's Ninth Hospital to make a CT scan.
当李喆和同样发热的母亲一起在留观病房时，不大的空间里挤满病床，呼吸困难的老人们发出巨大的喘息声。
When Li Zhe is in the visiting room with his equally feverish mother, the small space is packed with beds, and the breathless elderly people gasp loudly.
李喆不断看到穿黄色衣服的殡仪馆人员来拉走尸体，“后来我一见黄衣服就浑身发抖”。
David Li kept seeing undertaker in yellow come to pull the body away. "Later I shudder at the sight of yellow clothes."
医生在与死亡赛跑，早已饱和的医院艰难地应对蜂拥而来的病人，从除夕夜至今，解放军和各地医疗队源源不断“空投”江城，倾国之力，挽救这座城市。
From New Year's Eve to the present, the PLA and medical teams from all over the country have been "airdropping" river cities to save the city.
从“封城”第四天开始，未经允许的私家车禁行。
Private cars are banned from the fourth day of the "Sealing of the City."
武汉市武昌医院护士汪俊开始骑自行车上下班。
Wuhan Wuchang Hospital Nurse Wang Jun began to cycle to work.
她在1月1日支援武汉传染病专科医院金银滩医院最前线，在陆军军医大学接管后，她重回到了武昌医院。
She was at the forefront of the Golden Beach Hospital, Wuhan Specialized Hospital for Infectious Diseases, on January 1, and returned to Wuchang Hospital after being taken over by the Army Medical University.
很快，武昌医院也爆满了。
Soon, Wuchang Hospital was full, too.
汪俊的车技不太娴熟，以前从不敢在马路上骑自行车。
Wang Jun is not a very skilled motorist and never used to ride a bicycle on the road before.
但现在不一样了，大街上空旷、寂静，几乎没有车，也没有行人。
But now it was different. The streets were empty and silent, with few cars and no pedestrians.
“我觉得这一切好陌生，像在做梦一样。
"I felt it was strange, like a dream.
”汪俊回想起短短几日前，哪怕是凌晨两点下班，街上还有车流，有烧烤摊，有从KTV走出来的喧闹人群。
Mr. Wang recalls just a few days ago, even after work at 2 a.m., there was traffic on the street, a barbecue stand and a noisy crowd coming out of KTV.
3莫扎特，岳云鹏，法国医生“当时全场都在爆笑，没有人担心什么病毒。
3 Mozart, Yue Yunpeng, French doctor "The whole room was laughing and no one was worried about the virus.
这才过去半年。
That was six months ago.
”“生活的样态完全改变了。
"Life has changed entirely.
”武汉大学教授秦前红说，邻居有时给他送菜，也只放在门口，彼此提防着看不见的病毒。
"Wuhan University professor Qin Qianhong said neighbors sometimes gave him food and just left it at the door to watch out for hidden viruses.
既然哪儿也不能去，谁也不能见，本来该在家里干点事，“可什么也干不了，总是心有旁骛”。
Since you can't go anywhere and nobody can see you, you should do something at home. "But you can't do anything and you have to concentrate."
“街上每个人看到对面有人来就绕开走，不想和对方走在同一片空气当中。
"Everyone on the street would walk around when they saw someone coming, not wishing to walk in the same air with the other person.
”看见自己生活的城市变成这样，杜洺君说不清是心痛还是心酸。
Seeing the city in which he lives turns out to be like this, Dodgers can't tell whether it's heartburn or heartbreak.
但她必须坚强起来，去安抚心理热线那头的恐惧与焦虑。
But she must be strong enough to assuage the fears and anxieties at the other end of the psychological hotline.
有中年男人打电话倾诉，自己不能在家人面前表露真实的恐惧。
There are middle-aged men who talk on the phone and can't express real fear in front of their families.
杜洺君告诉他，“其实你可以哭。
"You can cry," Du told him.
”于是男人在热线中嚎啕大哭。
"So the man wailed loudly in the hotline.
杜洺君有时会陪着咨询者一起流泪，有时则会建议他们减少接收疫情信息，去听一听莫扎特D大调双钢琴奏鸣曲。
Mr. Du would sometimes shed tears with his advisors, sometimes advising them to cut back on the information they receive and listen to Mozart's two piano sonatas in D major.
在接听热线的过程中，杜洺君说得最多一句话是：“我们都身在其中，我们都从未遇到过。
In the course of answering the hotline, Du Zengjun said the most words are: "We are all in one, we have never met.
”连日隔离的孤独，让身体健康的武汉市民也不断怀疑，自己是不是下一个感染者。
The isolation of days has left the healthy Wuhan residents wondering if they are the next infected.
他们需要心理咨询师确认，他们此刻的脆弱与无助是正常感受。
They need a counselor to confirm that their vulnerability and helplessness at the moment is a normal feeling.
同住一个屋檐下，黄恺与妻儿也相互隔离，整天见不着面。
Under the same roof, Huang Kai and his wife and children were separated from each other.
黄恺是湖北省工业建筑集团有限公司员工。
Huang Kai is an employee of Hubei Industrial Construction Group Co. Ltd.
大年初八，他接到单位通知，要去支援火神山医院建设。
On the eighth day of the new year, he received notification from his unit to support the construction of Mount Huoshen Hospital.
这是武汉终结病人收治难题的关键之战。
This is Wuhan to end the treatment of patients in the key battle.
作为收治新冠肺炎确诊患者的应急医院，火神山医院在“封城”首日已经动工，黄恺去时已大体成型，但在收尾阶段还需加快进度。
As an emergency hospital for patients diagnosed with pneumonia, work began on the first day of the "closure" of Mount Huangkai.
赶工三日，火神山医院投入使用，黄恺刚以为能歇几天，又在睡梦中被叫醒，去建设“武汉客厅”方舱医院。
After three days of work, Huangcai Mountain Hospital was put into use. He thought he could rest for a few days. He was woken up in his sleep.
总建筑面积180万平方的武汉客厅，是这座城市的文化地标建筑。
Wuhan living room with a total floor area of 1.8 million square meters is the cultural landmark of the city.
2019年6月，黄恺还和妻子一起来这里看过相声演员岳云鹏的巡演。
In June 2019, Huang Kai also came here with his wife to see the tour of crosstalk actor Yueyun Peng.
“当时全场都在爆笑，没有人担心什么病毒。
"There was a lot of laughter and no one was worried about the virus.
这才过去半年。
That was six months ago.
”按照部署，武汉客厅要被改造成临时接收2000名新冠肺炎轻症患者的方舱医院。
According to the plan, the Wuhan living room will be converted into a cabin hospital for temporary admission of 2,000 patients with mild pneumonia.
正月十四，第一批患者入住时，黄恺还在改装下水道。
On the 14th of January, when the first patients moved in, Huang Kai was reconfiguring the sewer.
“我们和患者就隔一面墙，大家都不敢脱口罩，盒饭送过来也不敢吃。
"We were on the other side of the wall with the patient and we didn't dare to take off our masks or to eat boxed rice.
”因为近距离接触确诊病人，单位安排黄恺从元宵节开始居家隔离十四天。
Because of the close contact with the confirmed patient, Huang Kai was placed in quarantine for 14 days from the Lantern Festival.
其实从大年初八接下建设任务那天起，黄恺的妻子程晓芳就搬到儿子的房间，把主卧留给黄恺一个人。
In fact, from the eighth day of the new year to the construction task, Huang Kai's wife Cheng Xiaofang moved to her son's room, leaving Huang Kai alone.
程晓芳曾是抗击SARS的护士，如今已转行。
Cheng Xiaofang, a former nurse who fought SARS, has changed her profession.
“2003年我刚参加工作，就一个人，也不知道怕。
"When I first joined the work force in 2003, I was alone and didn't know I was afraid.
现在有小孩，有老人，感觉比SARS时还恐慌。
There are kids, there are old people, it feels worse than SARS.
”程晓芳担心丈夫在外工作感染病毒，于是俩人商量好：黄恺深夜收工回家，在门口脱下全身衣服，进主卧洗澡、休息，与家人不见面。
Concerned that her husband was infected with the virus while working outside, they agreed that Huang would come home from work late at night, undress at the door, take a bath in the master's bedroom, rest and meet his family.
六岁的儿子有时想找爸爸玩，黄恺不开门。
The six-year-old son sometimes wanted to play with his father.
程晓芳对儿子喊：“你爸爸身上搞不清楚有没有病毒，你离他远一点。
Cheng Xiaofang called to her son, "Your father can't tell if he has a virus. Stay away from him.
”胡振波情绪失控的时候不敢回家，躲在办公室掉眼泪。
"When he got out of control, he didn't dare to go home and cry in his office.
作为青山区新沟桥街社区卫生服务中心主任，胡振波从正月十二开始承担了一个隔离点的诊疗任务，对社区内发热患者和确诊病人密切接触者实行集中隔离观察——“应收尽收，不漏一人”是中央赴湖北指导组下达的命令。
As the director of the Xingou Bridge Street Community Health Service Center in Qingshan District, Hu Zhenbo has been carrying out a seclusion duty since January 12, focusing on quarantine observation of fever sufferers in the community and those in close contact with confirmed patients.
胡振波所在的社区卫生服务中心。
Hu Zhenbo is located in the community health service center.
（受访者供图/图）胡振波要带领手下的社区医生，对隔离点内近三百号人进行咽拭子采样和核酸检测。
Mr Hu will lead his community doctors to sample and test the pharynx swab and nucleic acid of nearly 300 people at the quarantine site.
在疫情暴发初期，这些高风险工作只有湖北省疾控中心的专业人士才能做。
In the early days of the outbreak, these high-risk jobs were available only to CDC professionals in Hubei province.
“现在感染者太多，我们只能上阵，没有人可以商量。
"There are too many infected people, we have to fight, there is no one to consult.
”留守武汉的法国全科医生PhilippeKlein同样倍感孤独。
Philip Klein, a French general practitioner left behind in Wuhan, also feels lonely.
武汉封城后，他坚持让妻子离开，但自己留下来。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, he insisted that his wife leave, but he stayed.
“我的职业是医生，我要履行我的职责。
"I am a doctor by profession, and I perform my duties.
我留在武汉比回法国更有用武之地。
It is more useful for me to stay in Wuhan than to return to France.
”后来，PhilippeKlein需要照顾的病人越来越少。
Later, Philippe Klein had fewer patients to look after.
他很少出门，只待在武汉家中回答病人咨询，以及思念送走的家人。
He rarely goes out, only stay at home in Wuhan to answer patient consultation, as well as missing the family.
“我和每一个武汉人一样，从这场战役开始后就在等待好消息。
"Like every Wuhan person, I have been waiting for the good news since the beginning of this campaign.
”4留守猫，新生儿，热干面“这些日常生活中毫不起眼的人们，拼成了这座城市的底色。
"Cats, newborn babies, hot-and-dry noodle" These unremarkable people of everyday life make up the backdrop of the city.
他们是武汉的守城人。
They are the guardians of Wuhan.
”留守武汉的，不只有人。
Wuhan is not the only one left behind.
许多外出过年的武汉人，被“封城”挡住了回家的路。
Many Wuhan people went out to celebrate the New Year, was "closed" blocked the way home.
他们出门前留给家中宠物的食粮，正在慢慢耗尽。
The food they left for their pets at home is slowly running out.
“封城”第三天，武汉市小动物保护协会在微信公号上推送了一条信息，表示愿意无偿为武汉宠物主上门救助宠物。
On the third day of the ban, the Wuhan Society for the Protection of Small Animals sent a message on the Weixin official saying it would help pet owners in Wuhan without charge.
十天过去，他们收到近五千份求助。
Ten days passed, and they received nearly five thousand calls for help.
留守的动物中，猫占大多数，此外还有狗、仓鼠、鹦鹉、乌龟、金鱼和小香猪。
Cats make up the majority of the animals left behind, as well as dogs, hamsters, parrots, turtles, goldfish and pigs.
“向我们求助的家庭，大部分住在出租屋，居住环境不太好。
"Most of the families we turn to for help live in rented accommodation and not very well-housed.
可能条件好的家庭能找到朋友帮忙照料动物。
Perhaps well-off families can find friends to help take care of the animals.
”会长杜帆和志愿者们带着开锁师傅，闯入一户户陌生人家，为留守动物添水加食。
"President Du Fan and the volunteers broke into a stranger's house with their master unlock to feed and water the animals left behind.
救助并非总能成功。
Relief has not always been successful.
有原计划只出门三天的宠物主求助，拜托杜帆去看看家中快要生产的母猫。
Pet owners who had planned to travel only three days to help, please Tu Fan to see the upcoming family female cat.
杜帆进门，发现母猫已经分娩，诞下的两只小奶猫冻死在猫砂盆里。
Du Fan enters the door, found the mother cat has given birth, gave birth to two baby kittens frozen to death in the cat basin.
感染新冠肺炎的武汉孕妇龚林，在“封城”第十天顺利分娩。
Wuhan pregnant woman Gong Lin, infected with New Crown Pneumonia, delivered her baby smoothly on the 10th day of the "Sealing City."
一个7.1斤的男婴在疫情时期诞生，目前各项指标正常，核酸检测显示未感染新冠病毒。
A 7.1 catty male infant was born during the outbreak, all indicators are now normal and nucleic acid testing shows no infection with the new crown virus.
为龚林接生的，有湖北本地和来自黑龙江援鄂医疗队的医生。
For Gong Lin's delivery, there are Hubei local and from the Heilongjiang medical team doctors.
龚林给新生儿取了个小名“小北龙”。
Gong Lin gave the newborn a nickname, "Xiao Beilong."
外卖员王建在这天接到一份特别的订单，下单人也是位孕妇。
Wang Jian, a take-out clerk, received a special order on the same day. She was also pregnant.
孕妇家里有一只很大的金毛犬，她自己没力气遛，也不方便这时候出门。
The pregnant woman has a big golden dog in her house. She has no energy to walk, and it is not convenient for her to go out at this time.
而她丈夫是医生，没有时间遛狗。
Her husband is a doctor and has no time to walk the dog.
王建送完外卖以后，帮孕妇遛了十几分钟的狗。
Wang Jianshu after the take-out, to help pregnant women for ten minutes of dogs.
疫情时期，外卖员依旧繁忙。
During the epidemic, take-out workers were still busy.
“以前点餐的多，现在让我们买菜的多。
"We used to order more food, now let's buy more.
”王建在元宵节那天接下好几份订单，都是托他买汤圆。
"Wang Jian took several orders on the day of the Lantern Festival, entrusting him with the purchase of Tangyuan.
意外留在武汉的王粒丁，决心用镜头记录像王建这样，在疫情和年关交织下仍坚守工作岗位的普通人。
Wang Juding, who was accidentally left in Wuhan, is determined to use a lens to record ordinary people like Wang Jian, who hold on to their jobs despite the epidemic and the interweave of years.
“这些日常生活中毫不起眼的人们，拼成了这座城市的底色。
"These undistinguished people of everyday life make up the background of the city.
他们是武汉的守城人。
They are the guardians of Wuhan.
”身穿橙色工作服的环卫工，像火苗一般跃动在王粒丁的镜头里，也跃动在武汉的大街小巷。
The sanitary wares in orange overalls leaped like flames through the lens of Wang Jing and up the streets of Wuhan.
王粒丁甚至邂逅了一位在空旷街道边跳广场舞的女环卫工，“她说在工作之余跳舞解解乏，对疫情显得很淡定”。
Wang even met a woman sanitation worker who was dancing in the square along an open street. "She said she was tired of dancing outside her work and seemed very unsettled by the epidemic."
疫情时期，武汉一位环卫工人在空旷的街道边跳广场舞。
During the epidemic period, a sanitation worker in Wuhan is dancing in the open street side square dance.
（受访者供图/图）“这些环卫工人大多是中老年人，是最易感的人群，三班倒，每天都要工作8小时。
The majority of these sanitation workers are middle-aged and elderly, the most vulnerable group, working eight hours a day in three shifts.
”王粒丁望着他们的背影，想起自己的父母，“他们坚守在一线岗位的理由很多，但终归为了营生”。
"The king looked after them and thought of his parents." There are many reasons for them to stay on the front line, but they are still making a living. "
武汉网约车司机马小龙，春节期间加入了“医护保障车队”，免费接送医护人员上下班，由公司提供补助。
Wuhan net contract driver Ma Xiaolong, during the Spring Festival joined the "medical support team," free transport medical personnel to and from work, the company provides subsidies.
他每天早上六点出车，凌晨两三点回家，跑得最多的是武汉市中心医院和协和医院。
He left at six in the morning and came home at two or three in the morning. The most common were Wuhan Central Hospital and Concorde Hospital.
“我就住这附近，总得为家乡人做点事。
'I live near here, and must do something for the country people.
”除了网约车司机，马小龙还有一个身份——庞记热干面的“少东家”。
Besides the chauffeur, Ma also has an identity as a hot-and-dry Pompeii's "masters of the family."
庞记开在汉口中山大道上，铺面仅二十多平米，老板是马小龙的母亲庞阿姨。
In Hankou Zhongshan Boulevard, the paved surface is only 20 square meters, the boss is Ma Xiaolong's mother Aunt Pong.
王粒丁有天深夜路过庞记，问店员为什么有疫情还24小时营业。
One night Wang passed Pang Ji and asked the shop assistant why he was open 24 hours after the outbreak.
店员说，这里二十年没关过门，因为这家店根本就没有门。
The clerk said the store had not been closed for 20 years because it had no doors at all.
王粒丁回头一看，还真只有一个门框。
Wang Yu-ding looked back and saw that there was only one door frame.
往年，一碗热干面平时4元，春节涨到6元，过完初七再回归原价。
In previous years, a bowl of hot and dry noodles usually 4 yuan, Spring Festival rose to 6 yuan, after seven days before returning to the original price.
“但今年回不到4块钱了，今年物价很高。
"But it's less than four yuan this year. Prices are very high this year.
”马小龙诉苦，疫情时期出门“过早”的武汉人大大减少，店里每天卖出一百多份热干面，“比去年差远了，去年是这个数的十倍”。
"Ma complained that the number of Wuhan people who went out" too early "during the epidemic period had dropped dramatically, with more than 100 hot-and-dry noodles sold every day.
5红菜薹，买菜群，麻将声“这是现在武汉最有烟火气的地方。
5 red bolts, buy vegetables group, mahjong sound "This is the most pyrotechnic place in Wuhan now.
”王粒丁发现，武汉现在人最多的地方除了医院，就是街边的菜场。
"Wang found that Wuhan is now the most populated place in addition to hospitals, is the street side of the vegetable farm.
“不管多难，人总是要吃饭。
"No matter how difficult it is, one always has to eat.
”武汉摄影博主老白屹只在两种时候出门：倒垃圾，逛菜场。
Wuhan photo blogger Lao Baiyi only goes out in two kinds of time: emptying garbage, shopping around the food market.
他拍下了唐蔡路菜场许多戴着口罩的商贩和市民，商贩沉默地称斤两，市民沉默地电子支付，彼此间鲜少用语言交流。
He photographed many vendors and citizens wearing masks at the Cai Lu Market in Tang Chua Road. Vendors were silent about electronic payments and rarely talked to each other in words.
“这是现在武汉最有烟火气的地方。
"This is the most pyrotechnic place in Wuhan today.
”武汉菜场里，商贩和市民都戴着口罩。
Vendors and citizens wear masks in Wuhan vegetable farms.
（受访者供图/图）在拍菜市场以外，老白屹只能登上天台，用无人机航拍疫情时期的江城。
(Respondents to the map / map) In addition to photographing the vegetable market, Lao Baiyi can only board the roof, aerial photography of the epidemic period of Jiangcheng UAV.
拍摄结束还要用酒精给无人机消毒——他怕无人机携带上新冠病毒。
At the end of the shoot, the drone had to be sterilized with alcohol - he feared it would carry a new crown virus.
疫情抑制不住武汉人对时令蔬菜的热爱。
The epidemic situation can not suppress Wuhan people's love for seasonal vegetables.
大学生郑柳家门口有间生鲜超市，早上九点开门，十点多再去就见不着红菜薹的身影。
There is a fresh supermarket in front of Zheng Liujia's house. It opens at 9: 00 in the morning.
“店员也说，新鲜的红菜薹最先卖完。
"The clerk also said that fresh red bolts were first sold out.
”郝芸的父母原本在洪山区一片菜场摆摊，郝芸从小帮忙。
"Hao Yun's parents originally in the Hongshan area a vegetable market stall, Hao Yun small help.
疫情暴发后，菜场关门了。
After the outbreak of the outbreak, the vegetable farm closed.
“我看到朋友圈里很多人说买不到菜，就在年初八建了一个群，把住在周边的人拉进来，说给他们送菜。
"I saw a lot of people in the circle of friends who said they couldn't buy food, so I built a group on the eighth day of the year.
”附近几个小区的业主们一散播消息，到“封城”第二十天，这个群里已经有两百号人，多的时候一天能接一百单。
When the owners of several nearby quarters announced that they had reached the twenty-first day of the "Seal of the City," there were already two hundred people in the group, and in many cases they could take a hundred a day.
郝芸家有七口人，男丁多，由他们去批发市场进货。
The Hao family has seven people, many men, who go to the wholesale market to buy goods.
父母年纪大了，抵抗力差，于是不出门，每天早上七点起来去仓库，按照郝芸头一天收集的订单配货。
As the parents were old and had poor resistance, they stayed home and got up at seven every morning to go to the warehouse.
中午，男丁们再出门送货，只送到小区门口，打电话让居民们分批下楼，减少彼此的接触。
At noon, the men go out to deliver goods, only to the door of the community, call residents down the stairs in batches, reduce contact with each other.
全职妈妈余娜是这个买菜群的成员。
Her stay-at-home mother, Yu Na, is a member of the group.
她所在的小区有一个确诊病人，还有几个疑似病人。
There is a confirmed patient in her community, and there are several suspected patients.
刚“封城”那几天，余娜的丈夫穿一身旧衣服，外面套一件雨衣，拿行李袋去超市囤了七百多元的食材——家中有一个三岁的大宝，一个半岁的小宝，食物绝对不能短缺。
During the first few days, Yu Na's husband was dressed in an old suit, a raincoat on the outside, and went to the supermarket with a suitcase that contained more than seven hundred yuan worth of groceries.
“旧鞋旧袄，等疫情结束了就扔掉。
"Old shoes and old jackets, throw them away when the epidemic is over.
”之后几天，余娜陆陆续续加入了八个买菜、买水果的微信群，还加入了一个奶粉群。
Over the next few days, Ms. Yu continued to add eight micro-groups buying vegetables and fruits, as well as a supply of milk powder.
小宝平常喝的进口奶粉，到处都断货，不得已只有转奶。
Xiaobao usually drink imported milk powder, everywhere out of stock, had to switch milk.
“很多宝妈都换了奶粉喝，有啥喝啥。
"A lot of precious mother have changed milk powder to drink, what to drink.
”“封城”第二十天，武汉中小学“线上开学”，余娜大宝就读的幼儿园也不例外。
Twenty days after the city was closed, primary and secondary schools in Wuhan began their classes online, and the kindergarten Yu Na Dabo attended was no exception.
幼儿园老师发来线上绘本和教学视频，余娜哄着孩子看看绘本，看看电视，一天就过去了。
Kindergarten teachers sent online drawings and teaching videos, Yu Nao coax children to see the picture book, watching television, a day passed.
大宝也想出去玩，天天趴着窗户往外看。
Dabao wanted to go out and look out the window every day.
大宝天天趴着窗户往外看。
Dabao looked out the window every day.
妈妈告诉他，外面有病毒。
Mom told him there was a virus outside.
（受访者供图/图）余娜本来也想和大宝讲讲李文亮的事，后来还是放弃了。
Yu Na also wanted to talk to Dabao about Li Wenliang, but she gave up.
“我小孩蛮多愁善感的，看个电影都能看得很伤心。
"My child is so sentimental that he can see a movie with sadness.
讲李医生，怕他听了难过。
Dr. Lee, I'm afraid he's sorry to hear that.
”“无聊的日子其实并不可怕，最可怕的是在无聊的日子中打破从前生活的秩序。
"Boredom is not really terrible; the most terrible thing is to break the order of former life in idle days.
”宅在家十几天没出门的90后职员刘放，决定在疫情时期重新建立生活的秩序感：“简单地说，以前放假在自己屋里做什么，现在依旧做什么。
Liu Fang, a 90-year-old homeowner who stayed at home for days, decided to re-establish a sense of order in the face of the epidemic: "In short, what had been done in his house during the holiday, and what is still being done now.
”刘放一边阅读陀思妥耶夫斯基的《地下室手记》，一边回想武汉最吸引自己的是什么。
Reading Dostoyevsky's "Basement Hands," Liu recalled what drew Wuhan most to him.
他想明白了，自己最爱的是这座城市的市井气息：端碗热干面，在路上走着，随时可以听到炒菜声和麻将声。
He wanted to understand that his favourite was the city's market atmosphere: hot dry noodles, walking along the road, ready to hear the sound of fried dishes and Mahjong.
老社区与高楼大厦不突兀地融合在一起，听着闲聊的大爷大妈说家长里短，“会觉得这是在生活，而不是在生存”。
Old community and high-rise buildings do not suddenly blend together, listening to gossip grandma said paternalistic, "will feel that this is life, not survival."
刘放不知道“封城”还要持续多久。
Liu Fang does not know how long the "closure" will last.
现在，他只希望能够早一点出门，在阳光下，吃一碗热干面。
Now all he wanted was to go out a little earlier and eat a bowl of hot, dry noodles in the sun.
（文中陈炜、梅歌、闻浩、李喆、龚林、郑柳、郝芸、余娜、刘放为化名）征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
(Wei Chen, Mei Ge, Wen Hao, Li Zhe, Gong Lin, Zheng Liu, Hao Yun, Yu Na, Liu Fang as aliases) now solicit news leads from all readers on the front line of the new crown pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情时期的怕与爱：“封城”20天的江城面孔。
Fear and Love in the Epidemic Period: The Face of the City for 20 Days.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疫情时期的怕与爱：“封城”20天的江城面孔";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
