有家难回：新冠肺炎制造的“北漂”。
Home difficult to return: New Crown Pneumonia made by the "North drift."
驳静。
Calm down.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
最近几天，已经回北京的上班族，已有不少人在外流浪着。
In recent days, many office workers who have returned to Beijing have been wandering outside.
陆续有北七家等地的房客被租住小区拒之门外，据本刊记者不完全统计，这些小区当中的大多数都由村委会管理，这类强调“村民自治”的小区，自认为在社区管理层面有较大的自由度。
In succession, tenants in seven places, such as the North, have been turned away from the housing estates, most of which, according to our correspondent, are run by village committees. These small areas, which emphasize "villager autonomy," see themselves as having greater freedom at the community management level.
他们对房客提出了要求，“自行在外隔离14天”，“14天后出示三甲医院出具的健康证明”。
They asked the tenant to "isolate themselves for 14 days" and "produce a health certificate from Sanja Hospital 14 days later."
记者 | 驳静“先别回北京”1月30日晚上8点左右，本刊记者来到北京市正北方向的东三旗村，该村隶属于昌平区北七家镇，往南不到两公里就是“天通苑”社区。
At around 8 p.m. on January 30, our reporter came to Dongsanqi village, just north of Beijing. The village belongs to seven towns in the north of Changping District. Less than two kilometers south, it is the Tian Tong Yuan community.
作为北京市著名的外来务工者聚居地，两者容纳了北京近70万常住人口。
As a well-known migrant worker colony in Beijing, both houses nearly 700,000 residents of Beijing.
回南路将东三旗村劈成地理上相对独立的两个区域，路两侧共有4对正门，除此之外的侧门和小门，因为此次新冠肺炎疫情，全都被临时锁了起来，只余正门供居民出入。
On the south side of the road, the village of Dongsanqi was split into two geographically separate areas, with four front doors on either side, and side and small doors, all temporarily locked because of the new crown pneumonia outbreak, leaving only the main entrance open to residents.
东三旗村委会门口（驳静 摄）其中一个正门口，有七八位戴着红袖章和口罩的工作人员，各有分工，岗亭里可以量体温、登记身份信息，右侧临时加设了一张条案，也用于登记。
At one of the main gates of Dongsanqi Village Committee (Shen Shen), there were seven or eight staff members wearing red armbands and masks, each with its own division of labor.
拖着拉杆箱的年轻人，是重点排查对象，除了身份证，还需出示火车票，以证明自己的出发地城市。
Young people towing trunks are the focus of an identity card, along with a train ticket, to prove their city of origin.
其中到此巡逻的村委会成员告诉本刊记者，除此之外，还得打电话让房东来领人，“如果房东不愿担责任，那也不能让他们进去”。
The village council members on patrol told reporters that in addition to calling the landlord to show them, "if the landlord doesn't want to take responsibility, they can't go in."
如果来者与湖北有关，“直接打120拉走去医院”，不过目前为止，尚未出现类似情况。
If the visitor is related to Hubei, "directly call 120 to go to the hospital", but so far, no similar situation has occurred.
本刊记者走到另一个大门口时，赶上值班人员的松懈时刻，测了体温后就混了进去。
This print reporter comes to another gate, catch the duty staff relaxed moment, took a temperature after mixing in.
门内华欣超市的杨老板告诉本刊记者，他今年没回老家，守着他的超市和十几个空房间。
Boss Yang of Hua Xin Supermarket told this print reporter that he did not return home this year, guarding his supermarket and a dozen empty rooms.
不过房客们都回乡过年了，前几天，他挨个儿打电话给他们，转告村委的通知，“先别回北京”。
But the tenants have returned home for the New Year, a few days ago, he called them one by one, tell the village committee notice, "do not go back to Beijing."
东三旗这一片多有类似民房，出租给外来务工者，月租在1千左右（20平米左右厨卫兼备的独立房间）。
East three flags this piece has many similar houses, rents to the migrant worker, the monthly rent is about 1000 square meters (20 square meters about the kitchen guards complete the independent room).
另一位叶姓房东告诉本刊记者，他管理着上百个房间，其中七八十间的房客回乡了，应村委会要求，他也早已经将暂缓回京的通知转达了出去。
Another landlord, named Ye, told reporters that he managed hundreds of rooms, of which 70 or 80 had returned home, and he had already conveyed, at the request of the village council, a moratorium on returning to Beijing.
杨老板告诉本刊记者，他看到的情况是，1月30日上午还是“不让进”，到了傍晚“松快了，放进来一些”，前几天，被放进社区的外来务工者数量也不多。
Boss Yang told reporters that he saw that January 30 morning or "no access" to the evening "relaxed, put in some", the last few days, the number of migrant workers into the community is also small.
9点半左右，本刊记者离开之前，又在回南路上看到一位拉着行李箱匆匆而行的小伙子，他说自己刚从山东回来，被挡在门外，村委告诉他“晚了5分钟”。
About 9: 30, before the print journalist left, he saw a young man hurrying a suitcase on the south road. He said he had just returned from Shandong Province and was stopped outside the door.
具体“比什么标准”晚了这珍贵的5分钟，他不得而知。
It was five minutes later than the standard, and he did not know.
驳静 摄1月31日，北京市政府发文称，“除必需行业外，各企业2月10日上班”，将迫在眉睫的返京大潮又往后推迟一个礼拜。
In a letter dated Jan. 31, the Beijing municipal government said "companies will start work on February 10, in addition to essential industries," postponing the imminent return to Beijing by another week.
只不过，这个文件仍然为企业要求员工返京弹性工作留有余地。
However, the document still leaves room for companies to ask their employees to return to Beijing for flexible work.
已经回京的上班族，已有不少人已经在外流浪数日。
Many office workers who have returned to Beijing have been away for several days.
陆续有北七家等地的房客被租住小区拒之门外，据本刊记者不完全统计，这些小区当中的大多数都由村委会管理，这类强调“村民自治”的小区，自认为在社区管理层面有较大的自由度。
In succession, tenants in seven places, such as the North, have been turned away from the housing estates, most of which, according to our correspondent, are run by village committees. These small areas, which emphasize "villager autonomy," see themselves as having greater freedom at the community management level.
他们对房客提出了要求，“自行在外隔离14天”，“14天后出示三甲医院出具的健康证明”。
They asked the tenant to "isolate themselves for 14 days" and "produce a health certificate from Sanja Hospital 14 days later."
就在本刊记者探访东三旗村的这天晚上，“80后”柴萌与她家人正在几公里外的东二旗新村门口，被村委会拒之门外。
On the evening of our reporter's visit to Dongsanqi Village, she and her family were turned away from the village committee a few kilometres away in front of the new village of East Second Flag.
她告诉本刊记者，他们连续开了1200多公里，从哈尔滨开回北京，没想到会回不了在北京的家。
She told reporters that they drove more than 1200 kilometers, from Harbin back to Beijing, did not expect to return home in Beijing.
以下是柴萌的讲述。
The following is a description of Chai Meng.
新冠肺炎制造的“北漂”1月23日，我们从北京出发回我老家哈尔滨。
On January 23, we set out from Beijing for our hometown of Harbin.
走之前也犹豫，疫情新闻我每天都在关注，钟南山院士教的抗肺炎方法也记在心里。
Before leaving also hesitated, the epidemic news I am paying attention every day, Zhong Nan Shan academician teaches the anti-pneumonia method also in mind.
所以我想着，那就自驾回去，安全性强过飞机和火车。
So I thought, just drive home, it's safer than airplanes and trains.
我奶奶身体不好，我得回去看她；必须回乡的另一个原因是我女儿，她才4岁。
My grandmother is in poor health and I have to go back to see her; another reason I have to go back is my daughter, who is only four years old.
孩子出生不久，为了工作，不得不把她送回老家，请我妈妈带。
After the baby was born, she had to be sent back to her hometown to ask my mother to take her to work.
作为孙辈，作为女儿，作为母亲，我都需要回乡。
As a grandchild, as a daughter, as a mother, I need to go home.
1月29号，我们就又出发回北京了。
On January 29th, we set out for Beijing again.
之前房东打来电话，询问我和家人的身份信息，还问我们在哪里过年，当时也没说不让回。
Before the landlord called, asked me and my family identity information, and asked where we spent the New Year, did not say no back.
我们这个小区叫东二旗新村，是个回迁小区，我们已经在这里租住了两年，两居室，房租4千一个月，过年的时候刚转给房东三个月1万2的房租。
We have rented it here for two years, two bedrooms, rent for four thousand one-month, and just transferred to the landlord for three months and twelve thousand rent in the New Year.
我们到东二旗新村的时候，是下午6点，天已经黑了。
When we got to the new village of Dong2Flag, it was 6: 00 pm and it was already dark.
门口有人给我们测体温，登记信息，然后告诉我们，不能进。
Someone at the door took our temperature, checked in the information, and told us we couldn't get in.
他们的原话是，“自行隔离14天，然后出具三甲医院的健康证明”，这样才能放我们进去。
They said, "isolate yourself for 14 days, and then produce a health certificate from the Three-A Hospital" so we can get in.
一开始我们还跟他们辩解，能不能好歹让我们回去，保证自我隔离。
At first we tried to explain to them if we could somehow get us back and keep ourselves isolated.
但是小区管理者口气很硬，坚决不同意，说他们要为东二旗新村1千多村民负责，“大家都上有老，下有小，请你们理解”，疫情时期需要特殊政策，其实我挺能理解。
But the community management tone is very hard, strongly disagree, said that they will be responsible for the new village of the East Second Flag more than 1,000 villagers, "everyone up and down, please understand," the epidemic period needs special policies, I quite understand.
但挺讽刺的地方是，我们在小区门口一直等到将近12点，看到小区村民进进出出，也有不戴口罩的，还有随地吐痰的，你知道他们开车去了什么地方，有没有带着病毒回来？如果不知道，这种隔离是否有意义？而我们从哈尔滨回北京，为何就不能回小区了呢？后来我气极而笑，跟我家人开玩笑说，难道肺炎病毒还会认人，专盯我们这些外来人口？等在小区门口的这个晚上，我们一共碰到三户同病相怜的人。
But ironically, we waited in front of the neighborhood until nearly 12: 00, and saw villagers coming in and out, wearing masks and spitting everywhere. Do you know where they drove and whether they came back with the virus?
一对是唐山回来的母子，我看那位妈妈抱着孩子，争辩不过，气得扭头就走；还有两户，都是从内蒙回来，都拖家带口，交涉失败后，也走掉了。
One mother and one son came back from Tangshan, and I saw the mother holding the child. But I argued that she turned her head away angrily.
只有我们还抱着希望多等了几个小时。
Only we waited hours longer with hope.
我们也打了110。
We hit 110, too.
接电话的同志给我们一个这边片区派出所的电话。
The comrade who answered the phone gave us a call from the local police station.
这个电话打过去，对方也表示，他们也无能为力。
The call was made and the caller said there was nothing they could do.
熬到12点多，我们只得撤了，找了个快捷酒店对付了一晚。
By midnight, we had to pull out and find a fast-track hotel for the night.
不过酒店说，过了今晚他们就停止营业了，这意味着明天我们又得接着游荡，没想到在北京生活了十几年，需要为下一晚住在哪里而焦虑。
But the hotel said they were closed after tonight, which meant we had to hang around again tomorrow, not expecting to live in Beijing for more than a decade and worrying about where to live the next night.
我一直挺喜欢北京这座城市，我在这里读大学，工作，成家，这么多年，还是第一次报警。
I've always liked Beijing as a city where I went to college, worked and started a family, and for the first time in years, I called the police.
也是第一次感觉到自己像是流浪狗，这一天一夜，东奔西跑，担心肺炎疫情，担心自己的安全，也担心工作，还有房贷和车贷，想起了很久以前的“北漂”心情。
It was the first time that I felt like a stray dog. I was running around all night worrying about pneumonia, my own safety, my job, my mortgage and my car loan.
东三旗附近的旅馆，前台告诉本刊记者，他们已经停止接受客人了（驳静 摄）第二天上午，我们又回到东二旗新村，一是想碰碰运气，二是想回去拿点生活用品。
At the hotel near the East Sanqi, the front desk told our reporter that they had stopped accepting guests. The next morning, we returned to Dongerqi New Village, hoping to take a chance and returning to get some daily necessities.
我甚至跟村委说，把我罩起来，或者给我消个毒，只是放我进去一下，很快就出来。
I even told the village committee to cover me up, or to give me a poison, just let me in and come out soon.
他们回答我说，“进去一分钟和一天，是一样的效果”。
They answered me, "To go in a minute and a day is the same effect."
他们还强调，村里可以自治，他们这样做没有错。
They also stressed that the villages could govern themselves and that they were right to do so.
最后我们只好把钥匙给房东，让他去家里帮着拿了一点东西出来。
Finally we gave the key to the landlord and asked him to come home and fetch something.
今天我看到一条新闻，说北京市民政局副局长，在（北京市新冠肺炎防控的）新闻发布会上表示，“不是确诊肺炎病例，没有明显发烧咳嗽等，应让外来人员自由进入小区”。
Today, I read a news report that the deputy director of the Beijing Civil Affairs Bureau, speaking at a news conference, said: "It is not a confirmed case of pneumonia, there is no apparent fever and cough, and foreigners should be allowed free access to the community."
受这条消息鼓励，我们就给北七家镇政府打电话，得到的回复是，镇政府并没有下过一刀切的驱逐通知。
Encouraged by the news, we telephoned seven township governments in the north and were told that they had not given blanket eviction notices.
接着我们又给东二旗新村村委打电话，问他们，人家镇政府都这样说了，能不能放我们进去。
Then we called the village committee of Xincun Dongerqi and asked them if they could let us in.
原本以为有希望，可是他们依然强硬，“它（北七家镇政府）妥协，我们也不会妥协的”。
Originally thought to be hopeful, but they are still tough, "it [the seven northern township governments] compromise, we will not compromise."
我现在担心，如果疫情持续发酵，14天后，他们也不会让我们再回去的。
I'm worried that if the epidemic continues, they won't let us go back in 14 days.
这两天交涉下来，我有种感觉，我觉得东二旗新村在以很无措很茫然的方式做自我保护，一味地相信，只要把我们这些外地人驱逐出去，他们就是安全的。
Over the past two days of negotiations, I have a feeling that the new village of the East Second Flag is protecting itself in a dazed way, blindly believing that as long as we aliens are expelled, they are safe.
可实际上，稍微学习一些疫情防控知识，就能发现，这个小区的自治举措里，没几项是真正科学有效的。
In fact, a little bit of knowledge of disease control, you can find that this community of autonomy initiatives, few are truly scientific and effective.
特别可爱的一件事，第一天晚上，给我们测体温的那个人，照着我脑门测体温，测出来34度3，我当时都乐了。
One particularly cute thing, the one who took our temperature on the first night, took my temperature in my head and measured it at 34 degrees 3.
还有最简单疫情防控常识，外来务工者回到北京，流浪在外住酒店，假设这些人当中，有人感染，难道不是意味着更大的风险吗。
There is also the simplest disease prevention and control common sense, migrant workers back in Beijing, wandering outside the hotel, assuming that some of these people infected, do not mean that the greater risk?
能打的电话都打了，能做的努力也都做了，我们现在在等待“裁决”。
Phone calls have been made, all the efforts we can make have been done, and we are now awaiting a "verdict."
刚才在微博上看到一张照片，拍的是捐给武汉的三箱物资，上面贴了张标签，“日本汉语水平考试考试HSK事务局支援湖北高校物资”，上面还有一行字，写着“加油！中国”，下面还有一行小字，“山川异域，风月同天”。
Just now, I saw a picture on Weibo of three boxes of materials donated to Wuhan, affixed with a label, "The HSK Bureau of Japanese Chinese Language Proficiency Examination supports the materials of Hubei colleges and universities." There is also a line with the words, "Come on, China."
这两个词突然就击中了我，它们似乎传达出来的美好情感和复杂情绪，让处在眼下境地中的我，愣了好一会儿。
These two words suddenly hit me, they seem to spread out the good feelings and complex emotions, let me in the current situation, froze for a while.
（为保护受访人，个人信息有模糊处理。
(Personal information is processed vaguely to protect the interviewee.
）作者档案驳静三联记者，爱听故事、讲人话。
) The author's file quiets the three journalists and loves to listen to stories and talk.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博、豆瓣都是：驳静请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
2007-9-24 16: 19 [hide] www.youtheme.cn [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [color = Red] [/ color] [color = Red] [color = Red]
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
驳静。
Calm down.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
有家难回：新冠肺炎制造的“北漂”。
Home difficult to return: New Crown Pneumonia made by the "North drift."
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "有家难回：新冠肺炎制造的“北漂”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "他们连续开了1200多公里，从哈尔滨开回北京，没想到会回不了在北京的家。
var msg _ desc = & quot; They drove over 1,200 kilometers back to Beijing from Harbin and didn't expect to be able to return to their homes in Beijing.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
