与疫情赛跑的普通人。
Ordinary people in a race against the epidemic.
刘楚玥。
Liu Chu-yun.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
全文共2913字，阅读大约需要7分钟文/刘楚玥编辑/陈淼疫情滔滔，牵动着每一个中国人的心。
The whole text is 2913 words and it will take about seven minutes to read it / Liu Chu-you, the editor / Chen Miao Tao, touching the heart of every Chinese.
医疗物资告急，口罩、护目镜和防护服一时成为最难买的“硬通货”。
Medical supplies were in short supply, and masks, goggles and protective clothing became the most difficult hard currency to buy for a while.
沧海横流方显英雄本色，在抗疫一线，无数医护人员挺身而出，勇敢逆行，为救治患者与时间赛跑、同病魔较量；在后方，同样有一群人扛起责任，冲锋在前，用坚守和付出传递温暖和力量，这其中就包括许多重要医疗设备制造企业的员工。
In the first line of the battle against the plague, countless medical personnel have stepped forward to fight against time and disease. In the rear, a group of people, including the employees of many major medical equipment manufacturers, have shouldered their responsibilities and passed on warmth and strength through perseverance and dedication.
1“这个春节，我随时处于工作状态” 一夜之间，武汉成为了所有人最密切关注的地方。
"This Spring Festival, I always work" overnight, Wuhan became everyone's most closely watched place.
为了抗击疫情，这座拥有900万户籍人口、500多万流动人口的城市在除夕前夜宣布封城，机场、火车站、市内公共交通停闭。
The city, with a population of 9 million and more than 5 million migrants, was shut down on New Year's Eve, along with airports, railway stations and public transport in the city, to fight the epidemic.
配图来源：新华社周日晚上22:30，欧姆龙武汉地区的业务员唐跃正准备休息，突然接到了一家药店店员的求助电话。
Source: Xinhua News Agency Sunday night at 22: 30 pm, Olmong Wuhan sales clerk Tang Yue is ready to rest, suddenly received a drug store clerk's help phone call.
原来，以往顾客在店里购买制氧机，店员都会详细讲解使用说明和注意事项，但疫情当前，很多顾客都在门口取了产品就匆匆离去，但回家后却常常不会使用。
In the past, customers bought oxygen machines in the store, shop assistants will explain the instructions and precautions in detail, but the epidemic situation, many customers at the door to pick up products and hurried to leave, but often do not use the home.
唐跃是原本只负责制氧机、雾化器、体温计和血压计等医疗设备的销售，但今年春节因人手紧张，售后服务也加入了他的任务清单，唐跃基本随时处于工作状态，药房、供应商和顾客的电话响个不停。
Tang Yue was originally only responsible for the oxygen machine, atomizer, thermometer and sphygmomanometer and other medical equipment sales, but this year's Spring Festival because of staff constraints, after-sales service also added to his list of tasks, Tang basically at work at all times, pharmacies, suppliers and customers ringing phone calls.
“对，把湿化壶安装上去，然后点击开关……”唐跃一步步指导顾客进行操作。
"Yes, put the wet pot on, and then click on the switch..." Tang Leap step by step to instruct customers to operate.
谈话间唐跃了解到，购买制氧机的顾客并没有什么呼吸健康困扰，只是出于担心和紧张。
During the conversation, Tang learned that buyers of oxygen machines did not have any breathing health problems, just out of fear and nervousness.
他在指导完使用方法后多安慰了几句，两个人在互相鼓励中结束了通话。
He consoled himself with a few more words of instruction, and the two men ended the conversation by encouraging each other.
疫情如一朵巨大的乌云，压在每个武汉人的心头，唐跃明显感觉到工作上需要用更多时间处理情绪问题。
The outbreak is like a huge cloud, pressure on the hearts of every Wuhan people, Tang Yue clearly felt that more time on the job to deal with emotional problems.
“现在全国都在支持武汉，我们自己不动，那肯定不行。
"Wuhan is now supported by the whole country, and if we don't move ourselves, it won't work.
”虽然无法像医护人员一样在前线战斗，但他觉得能多给身边顾客做些疏导和鼓励，也是为这场战役尽一份力。
Though he could not fight on the front lines as well as the paramedics, he felt he could do more to ease and encourage the customers around him.
尽管公司已经通知在线办公，但唐跃的工作离不了与药店的接触。
Although the company has notified the online office, but Tang Yue's work is inseparable from the contact with pharmacies.
为了让家人和自己心安，他每次回到家之前，都会先摘掉口罩，拿酒精去喷湿衣服，单独挂晒存放。
To reassure his family and his family, he would remove his mask before returning home, spray his wet clothes with alcohol and hang them alone.
“除了湖北省外，全国确诊人数最近是呈下降趋势的，相信不久之后疫情就会得到控制。
"With the exception of Hubei province, the number of confirmed cases nationwide has been on a downward trend recently, and we believe the epidemic will soon be under control.
”和全国大多数人一样，这个春节唐跃关注最多的就是疫情数据，相信“总会渡过这个难关”。
Like most people across the country, the Spring Festival caper focused most on the epidemic, believing that "it will all come through."
元宵节前夕，他打完和药店店员的电话，定上了第二天早起的闹钟。
On the eve of the Lantern Festival, he finished calling the drugstore clerk and set the alarm clock for the early rising the next day.
他所在的公司欧姆龙已经与广东省钟南山基金会捐赠制氧机100台、压缩式雾化器100台。
His company, Omron, has donated 100 oxygen machines and 100 compressed atomizers to the Zhong Nan Shan Foundation in Guangdong Province.
明天早上他要去仓库清点货物，确保设备能够送到需要的地方。
He will go to the warehouse tomorrow morning to count the goods and make sure that the equipment is delivered to where it is needed.
2“只要有需求，就去” 大年初四，关倩回到了自己的办公室。
"Whenever there is a need, go" Guan Qian returned to his office on Thursday.
统计数据、沟通信息、联系外包物流公司……原本轻车熟路的工作在特殊的时刻处理起来需要更加小心。
Statistics, communication information, contact outsourcing logistics companies... work that used to be easy to handle at a particular time needs to be handled more carefully.
春节期间出勤人数有限，她和员工加强了货物的复核工作，尽量做到万无一失。
Attendance during the Spring Festival is limited, she and her staff have strengthened the review of goods, as far as possible foolproof.
由于疫情和假期的原因，各地交通管制加强，很多物流网络都没有恢复正常的工作。
Because of the epidemic and vacations, traffic control has been tightened and many logistics networks have not resumed normal work.
作为欧姆龙大连物流课课长，关倩这个春节为医疗设备配送的问题焦头烂额，“我们调动了很多其他的网络，包括比较贵的物流平台、租用专车等方式。
As the head of the Om Long Dalian Logistics Group, Guan Qian, who is struggling with the problem of medical equipment distribution during the Spring Festival, "mobilizes many other networks, including more expensive logistics platforms and rental cars.
”按照以往，年关将至时订单会越来越少，因为客户也知道有可能年前收不到货物，但是今年接近放假的时候反而需求量更大，特别是体温计这一块需求量激增。
In the past, orders would be running low as customers knew they might not get their goods by the end of the year, but there was a greater demand for them as the holiday season drew near, particularly for thermometers.
大年初二，关倩的手机频频震动，工作微信群里已经传来了紧急的需求。
New Year's Day, Guan Qian's mobile phone frequently vibrates, the work micro-letter group has sent the urgent demand.
“大连要求10号以前不得复工，但像我们这种作为医疗企业对疫情有帮助，只要有需要的话我们就去。
"Dalian asked not to resume work until Number 10, but being a medical company like ours would help with the epidemic and we would go if there was any need.
”在群里传达复工通知时，关倩很快便收到了大家积极主动的反馈。
When sending a notice of return to work in the group, Gwan quickly receives positive feedback.
物流课通过轮值的形式以最快速度返回了工作岗位。
The Logistics Group returned to work in shifts as quickly as possible.
从初二到初七，剩余体温计库存几乎全部发完，订单需求量几乎是往常的十几倍。
From the second to the seventh, the remaining thermometer inventory almost complete, order demand is almost a dozen times the usual.
生产车间，忙碌在生产一线的工人们处理完手头的物流订单，关倩抽空瞟了一眼微信消息，是初中的女儿发来提醒她戴好口罩的消息。
Production workshop, busy in the production of the front-line workers to deal with the logistics orders, Guan Qian took time to glance at the message, the daughter of junior high school to remind her to wear a mask.
原本关倩与家人们计划这个春节一起去日本旅行的计划被突如其来的疫情打断，还好老公和女儿都足够理解她的工作，也主动在家里承担了做饭、打扫的家务。
The planned Spring Festival trip to Japan by Guan Qian and her family was interrupted by a sudden epidemic. Fortunately, both husband and daughter understood her work well enough and took the initiative to do the cooking and cleaning at home.
她快速回复了一个“爱心”的表情包，继续投入了紧张的工作中。
She quickly responds to a "loving" expression pack and continues to engage in intense work.
3“元宵节是复工后出勤人数最多的一天” 2月4日早上7:00，林敏从家出发踏上复工之路。
"The Lantern Festival is the most people back to work after the day," February 4 7: 00 a.m., Lin Min set out from home on the road back to work.
二月的大连春寒料峭，淡淡的雾霾笼罩了整个城市。
February dalian spring chill, a faint haze shrouded the city.
往日熙熙攘攘的街道冷清了许多，林敏原本的通勤时间缩短了一半。
The hustle and bustle of the street was so deserted that Lin's commuting time was cut in half.
哪怕隔着N95口罩，都能闻到工厂里淡淡的消毒水味。
Even through the N95 mask, can smell the faint smell of disinfectant in the factory.
通过体温检测的林敏进入了车间，早班的工人们已经奋斗在生产第一线。
Lin Min, who passed the temperature test, entered the workshop and the workers in the morning shift were already on the front line of production.
这是欧姆龙工厂春节后复工的第一天，部分工人由于身处异地或需要隔离观察无法到岗，然而产品需求激增，据林敏了解，仅制氧机一类产品，年后的需求量就增加了至少30%，任务艰巨而重要。
Some workers cannot be reached because they are in other places or need to be quarantined. However, the demand for products such as oxygen machines alone has increased by at least 30% in the next year.
“2月4日复工人数大概在100左右，是以往总人数的6%，估计过几天陆陆续续会再增加100人。
"The number of people returning to work on February 4 is about 100, about 6 percent of the previous total, and it is estimated that a further 100 will trickle down in a few days.
”提到即将到来的元宵佳节，她有一点期待，“虽然元宵是周六，但是我们已经承诺客户保证产量，所以当天肯定是没法休息，而且元宵节时复工出勤人数应该是近期最多的一天。
"Referring to the upcoming Lantern Festival, she said with some anticipation:" Although it is Saturday, we have promised our customers that there will be no rest on that day, and the number of people back on duty at Lantern Festival should be the most in recent days.
”肆虐的疫情打破了中国人习以为常的生活。
The ravages of the epidemic have disrupted the lives to which the Chinese are accustomed.
1月28日，林敏作为紧急对应小组的成员，开始了复工的筹备工作。
On 28 January, Lin Min, as a member of the emergency response team, began preparations for the resumption of work.
她是欧姆龙大连地区生产一线负责人，群里的负责人们从摸底排查人员、确定出勤人员名单、厂区班车消毒、餐厅隔离进餐、每日测体温安排和宣贯培训等方面进行了探讨。
She is the first person in charge of the production line in Omron Dalian, where the people in charge of the group have discussed issues such as mapping personnel, establishing attendance lists, disinfecting the factory bus, dining room isolation, daily temperature measurement arrangements and awareness training.
2月1日，负责人们进行了第二轮沟通，在确保所有准备完善后，敲定了2月4日的复工。
On 1 February, a second round of communication between those responsible was held, and the resumption of work on 4 February was finalized after ensuring that all preparations had been completed.
为了减少接触，食堂餐桌上加设了隔离板“每天时时刻刻需要戴着口罩工作，接触按钮或门把手会用纸巾之类的遮挡一下。
To reduce contact, a makeshift parapet has been added to the dining room table. "You need a mask to work all the time, and contact buttons or doorknobs can be shielded with paper towels.
”林敏提起工作中需要额外注意很多健康管理，“卫生防范意识还是需要自我强化。
Lin mentioned the need for extra attention to health management in her work: "Health precautions need to be self-reinforcing.
”林敏已经在欧姆龙度过17个春秋，入职的时候刚好是03年SARS肆虐。
Lin had already spent 17 spring and autumn in Omron, coming on duty just as SARS raged in 2003.
她清楚记得当时从5月到7月，工厂是几乎隔离封闭的状态，为了最快速度供应需求，他们由16小时两班倒的节奏，变成了24小时三班倒生产无休。
She well remembered that from May to July, the factory was almost isolated and closed, and that, in order to meet demand as quickly as possible, they had switched from a 16-hour, two-shift system to a 24-hour three-shift system.
“以体温计为例，当时是手工生产，现在已经模组化了。
"Take thermometers, for example, which were manufactured by hand and are now modular.
”提前SARS，她不免有些感慨，“自动化标准生产大大提高了产能，现在同一时间段产量起码是当年的3倍。
Early SARS, she laments, "Automated standard production has greatly increased capacity and now yields at least three times what it was in the same period."
”同天被拉入紧急对应小组的还有大连现场品质检察员李菁，质检品控是产品出厂前最后一道重要工序。
The same day was drawn into the emergency response team Dalian site quality inspector Li Jing, quality control is the product before the last important process.
非常时期，除了依照规章核检产品质量，核检的工作场所和人员也需要特别注意消毒卫生。
Unusual period, besides check product quality according to the regulation, the workplace that checks and checks also needs special attention disinfection sanitation.
“其实刚开始接到返工的消息，家人是有些担忧的。
"In fact, just began to receive rework news, the family is a bit worried.
她会觉得‘别人都不上班，怎么就你还提前上班？要是有危险怎么办？’”直到复工前夕，李菁还在耐心安慰年事已高的母亲，“我们生产的是健康医疗的产品，能够帮助控制疫情呢。
She would think, 'If everyone else is away, why do you go to work early? What if there is any danger?' "Until the eve of the resumption of work, Li Jing patiently comforted her elderly mother," We are producing health care products that can help control the epidemic.
”提到家人，李菁情绪放松了一点，眼角里也有了笑意。
"Turning to family members, Li Jing relaxed a little and smiled in the corners of his eyes.
阿尔贝·加缪曾说：“这一切与英雄主义无关，而是诚挚的问题。
Albert Camus once said: "It is not heroism, but sincerity.
……就我而言，诚挚就是做好本职工作。
As far as I am concerned, sincerity is doing my job well.
”疫情面前，没有人是一座孤岛。
No one is an island in the face of the epidemic.
支援武汉，不是一句空洞的号召，而是每个普通人用自己的力量与社会、国家同行。
Support Wuhan, is not an empty call, but every ordinary person with their own strength and social, national counterparts.
春节前夕，欧姆龙中国优先将体温计供往武汉当地最大的医药平台九州通，并通过九州通将1万支体温计捐赠给武汉当地医疗机构、学校等公共机构。
On the eve of the Spring Festival, Omron China gave priority to supplying thermometers to Kyushu Tong, Wuhan's largest medical platform, and donated 10,000 thermometers to local medical institutions and schools in Wuhan through Kyushu.
此外，捐赠3000支以确保九州通集团员工开展一线疫情防控工作；1月27日，密切关注疫情的欧姆龙中国又将2200支红外线额式体温计，捐赠给上海、大连市政府；2月5日，欧姆龙中国再次决定通过广东省钟南山医学基金会紧急捐赠制氧机100台、压缩式雾化器100台，在武汉慈善会的统筹下，全力驰援武汉的肺炎疫情防控工作。
On January 27, 2006, Omron China donated 2,200 infrared frontal thermometers to the governments of Shanghai and Dalian. On February 5, Omron China again decided to donate 100 oxygen-making machines and 100 compressed atomizer to Wuhan under the overall control of Wuhan Philanthropist Association.
守望相助，共克时艰。
Keep watch and help each other.
千百年来，中国人面临艰难困苦，从不曾畏惧退缩，这一次，胜利同样终将属于我们。
For thousands of years, the Chinese people faced difficulties and never flinched. This time, the victory will also belong to us.
（文中唐跃、关倩、林敏和李菁均为化名）（专题）。
(Text Tang Yue, Guan Qian, Lin Min and Li Jing are aliases) (Topic).
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
与疫情赛跑的普通人。
Ordinary people in a race against the epidemic.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "与疫情赛跑的普通人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; ordinary & quot; who ran a race with the epidemic.
var msg_desc = "守望相助，共克时艰。
var msg _ desc = & quot; kept watch to help out.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
