疑似感染后，两个外地护工的艰难收治。
Suspected infection, two field care workers difficult admission.
汤禹成。
Stuart Stuart Stuart.
南方周末                      。
Southern Weekend.
南方周末。
Southern Weekend.
在这里，读懂中国！infzm.com。
Here, read about China! infzm.com.
▲2月9日，医护人员在雷神山医院了解新冠肺炎患者病情。
On February 9, the medical staff in Lei Shenshan Hospital to learn about the patients with New Crown Pneumonia.
（新华社 高翔/图）全文共4438字，阅读大约需要10分钟。
The full text is 4,438 words and takes about 10 minutes to read.
只要有病人，就有工作，一旦丢失了客源，也就失了业。
As long as there are patients, there is work, once the source of loss, also lost their jobs.
平常时候，这种情况一般不会发生。
Normally, this does not happen.
但新冠肺炎打乱了一切。
But the new crown pneumonia upset everything.
也有一顿好吃的，那个送她们棉袄的好心人，在2月9日深夜送来盒饭，张姐已经好久没吃过热乎的饭菜了。
There was also a delicious meal. The kind-hearted man who gave them a cotton-padded jacket delivered a box of rice late at night on February 9.
从上至下的政策和网络上引起波澜的众多求助一起，无疑给集中隔离的实施主体社区施加着双重压力。
The combination of top-down policies and numerous calls for help on the network undoubtedly exert double pressure on the implementing host communities in centralized isolation.
在隔离点，还未确诊的张姐和已确诊为阳性的陈姐住在一起，病房内还有其他一两个未确诊患者。
At the quarantine site, Ms. Zhang, who has not yet been diagnosed, lives with Chen, who has been diagnosed positive, and there are one or two other undiagnosed patients in the ward.
本文首发于南方周末 未经授权 不得转载文 | 南方周末记者 汤禹成南方周末实习生 蒋芷毓责任编辑 | 吴筱羽56岁的张姐在寻找一个安顿之所。
This article began at Southern Weekend without authorization to reprint South Weekend reporter Tang Yucheng Southern Weekend Intern Jiang Zhiyu, the responsibility editor and 56-year-old Ms. Wu Xiaoyu, is looking for a place to live.
她是武汉市中心医院的一名护工，从黄冈来省城谋生。
She is a nurse at Wuhan Central Hospital and earns her living from Huanggang.
她和一家家政公司签了合同，家政公司送她到医院陪护病人。
She signed a contract with a home economics company to escort her to the hospital.
如今，她疑似感染新冠肺炎，却无家可归。
Now she is suspected of contracting pneumonia, but is homeless.
家对张姐来说，一种意义上，是故乡黄冈的家。
To Sister Zhang, home is, in a sense, the home of Huang Gang.
武汉早已封城。
Wuhan has long been sealed.
张姐的儿媳说，他们原本打算在黄冈弄张通行证，去武汉接婆婆回家隔离，但后来他们打听到，还要武汉这边开放行证明。
Zhang's daughter-in-law said they had planned to get a permit in Huanggang to pick up her mother-in-law in Wuhan to go home to quarantine, but later they found out that Wuhan side of the open proof.
另一重意义，是武汉的住所。
Another significance, is Wuhan residence.
但张姐这样的外地护工，以医院为家，吃穿住都在院内，晚上就住在病床旁，从外地来的人，并不会在武汉租房。
But Zhang Jie, such as the field nurses, to the hospital as home, food, clothing and living in the hospital, at night, living next to the bed, from the outside world, will not rent in Wuhan.
护工是中国医疗行业特有的工种。
Nursing workers are a special type of work in the Chinese medical profession.
随着住院患者陪护需求增加，仅仅靠医疗机构增加护士数量，已无法满足患者的需求。
As the demand for in-patient care increases, increasing the number of nurses in medical institutions alone will no longer meet the needs of patients.
护工职业随之出现。
The nursing profession followed.
平常的日子里，护工模式存在的问题只是偶尔出现。
In normal days, problems with the caregiver model occur only occasionally.
一篇分析护工的文章提到，当护工没有需要服务的患者时，护工需要有休息地点，由于很多医院、公司没有能力给护工提供，护工只好在医院走廊座椅处休息。
An analysis of nursing staff mentioned that nursing staff need rest places when they do not have the patients they need to serve, and because many hospitals and companies cannot afford to provide care workers, nurses have to rest in hospital hallways.
而新冠肺炎疫情之下，雇主离开、疑似感染、医院赶人，这份职业的风险被放到最大，这一本就弱势的群体，更加脆弱。
With the new crown pneumonia epidemic, employers leaving, suspected infections, and hospitals driving people, the occupation's risks were put at greatest risk, this book on vulnerable groups, more vulnerable.
在本已因疫情焦头烂额的医院、家政公司、社区等多方的拉锯中，疑似被感染的外地护工要得到安顿，比起普通武汉市民更难，也有不足为人道的辛酸。
It is even more difficult and dehumanizing than ordinary Wuhan city residents to settle down in hospitals, home companies, communities and others who are already suffering from the epidemic.
1无家可归：“几乎不离开医院和病人”2017年底，张姐第一次上武汉打工。
Homeless: "Almost do not leave the hospital and patients" at the end of 2017, Zhang Jie first went to Wuhan to work.
丈夫去世得早，小儿子尚未结婚，大儿子有一对儿女，一家六口人“全住在一个屋子里”。
The husband died early, the youngest son was unmarried, the eldest son had two children, and the family of six "all live in the same house."
在武汉做家政，赚得比黄冈多，张姐想补贴家用。
In Wuhan to do home economics, earn more than Huanggang, Zhang Jie would like to subsidize the family.
张姐儿媳告诉南方周末记者，其实家里人也不想让她来武汉，外头辛苦，而且家里还有两个小孩子要婆婆照顾，但张姐还是想出来挣钱。
Zhang sister-in-law told Southern Weekend reporter, in fact, the family did not want her to come to Wuhan, outside hard, and there are two children to mother-in-law to take care of, but Zhang sister-in-law still wanted to earn money.
她找到了这家家政公司，公司专门负责为武汉市中心医院找护工。
She found the home company, which specializes in finding nurses for Wuhan Central Hospital.
张姐在中心医院的雇主，是一位九十多岁的老婆婆。
Zhang's employer in the central hospital is an old woman in her 90s.
每天155元，家政公司从中抽走24元，十天一结，雇主给公司交钱，公司抽成后把钱转给护工。
At 155 yuan a day, the company will withdraw 24 yuan, 10 days of settlement, the employer to pay money to the company, the company after the money transferred to the caretaker.
除了为护工介绍客户，转账是家政公司和护工稀少的联结。
In addition to introducing clients to caregivers, money transfers are a scarce link between home companies and care workers.
2019年10月6日，张姐中断了陪护工作，回了趟黄冈的老家。
On October 6, 2019, Miss Zhang interrupted her escort work and went back to her hometown in Huanggang.
儿媳做手术，她要回去帮忙照顾。
The daughter-in-law has an operation. She needs to go back.
在家待了短短6天，她回到武汉。
After only six days at home, she returned to Wuhan.
护工们日日重复着相似的生活。
Carers repeat similar lives day after day.
晚上，展开陪护床，在病人旁入睡。
In the evening, unfold the cot and fall asleep next to the patient.
白天，折叠好陪护床，负责病人的生活起居。
During the day, fold up the bed to take care of the life of the patient.
张姐说，她甚至可以好长一段时间不出医院大门，24小时在病人身边。
She could have stayed out of the hospital for a long time, 24 hours at the patient's side, she said.
医院就是她的安身之所。
The hospital was her refuge.
只要有病人，就有工作，一旦丢失了客源，也就失了业。
As long as there are patients, there is work, once the source of loss, also lost their jobs.
平常时候，这种情况一般不会发生。
Normally, this does not happen.
但肺炎打乱了一切。
But pneumonia upset everything.
安身之所无法再让其安身，更何况，在新冠病毒交叉感染风险巨大的医院里，护工自己也成了疑似病人。
Shelter can no longer make their homes, not to mention the fact that in hospitals with a high risk of cross-infection, nurses themselves have become suspected patients.
不久前，雇主发烧了，要转到别的科室，医生也没说是否感染新冠病毒。
Not long ago, the employer had a fever and had to be transferred to another department, and the doctor did not say if he had acquired the new crown virus.
雇主家不再聘请她。
Her employer stopped hiring her.
在那前一天，2月6日，张姐觉得浑身乏力，吃不下饭，讲话接不上气。
The day before that, Feb. 6, she felt exhausted, unable to eat and unable to speak.
同科室的护工陈姐甚至还有发烧，她比张姐小5岁，是孝感人。
She even has a fever. She is 5 years younger than Sister Zhang. She is very filial.
她们做了肺部CT，显示双肺散在斑片状感染病灶，磨玻璃样密度增高影。
They had lung CT, showed scattered in the speckle-like infection focus, grinding glass-like density increased.
那晚，雇主还没离开，她们在病房里住了一晚。
That night, before their employers left, they spent the night in the ward.
但到了2月7日，护士长让两人必须离开。
But on February 7, the head nurse told the two men to leave.
一是她们没有了要照顾的病人，二是她们也疑似感染了。
One is that they have no patients to care for, and the other is that they are suspected to be infected.
经志愿者转述家政的话，空病房不是没有，但因为她们疑似感染，医院也不可能留她们。
If the volunteers relayed home economics, the empty wards were not empty, but the hospital could not keep them because they were suspected of infection.
“十分钟内把东西收拾好。
"Get the things together in ten minutes.
”张姐回忆起护士长不容置喙的语气。
"Chang recalled the nurse's unbeatable tone.
那天，张姐和陈姐在医院做了核酸检测。
That day, Sister Zhang and Sister Chen did a nucleic acid test at the hospital.
在张姐的叙述里，她们先找了医院所在的社区。
In Jie Zhang's account, they first found the community where the hospital was located.
“我们不是社区的居民，他们管不了。
"We're not residents of the community, they can't manage.
”张姐转述社区当时的答复。
"Zhang relayed the community's response at the time.
她们在街头流浪，求助均无果。
They roamed the streets without success seeking help.
平时工作都在医院，吹暖空调，从黄冈回武汉时她只带了件风衣外套。
Working in the hospital, blowing air conditioning, from Huanggang back to Wuhan when she only brought a windbreaker coat.
武汉的冬夜刺骨冰凉，2月7日、8日那两夜，张姐和陈姐露宿医院后边那个挡风的拐角，她就穿着这件单薄的风衣。
Wuhan cold winter night, February 7, 8 that night, Zhang Jie and Chen Jie sleeping in the back of the hospital that the wind corner, she was wearing this thin windbreaker.
有时外面太冷了，她们就走进医院里面。
Sometimes it was too cold outside and they went into the hospital.
但时间待久了，保安来赶人，她们又只好回到无遮蔽的角落。
But time, security came to drive people, they had to go back to the corner of the shelter.
眼泪没少流，张姐说。
Tears never run out, said Zhang.
2月9日下午，陈姐的核酸出了结果，是阳性。
On the afternoon of February 9, Chen's nucleic acid produced positive results.
张姐的结果还没出，但觉得自己也八九不离十了。
Zhang Jie's results have not come out, but I feel that he is not separated from ten.
两人相依为命，并未因核酸结果减少接触。
The two lived side by side and did not experience reduced contact as a result of nucleic acid.
“我们同病相怜，而且我的CT结果比她还更严重。
"We were in the same boat, and my CT findings were worse than hers.
”张姐不安地说。
"said Sister Zhang uneasily.
那天，有好心人愿意为她们提供住宿。
On that day, a kind-hearted person offered to accommodate them.
后来有人说，可以将阿姨送到住处，但得知阿姨是疑似病人后，也有些犹豫，提出消毒需求。
Later someone said that the aunt can be sent to the residence, but learned that the aunt is suspected of patients, also hesitated to put forward the need for sterilization.
阿姨准备了酒精，手套，口罩。
Aunt prepared alcohol, gloves, masks.
但对方还是有些犹豫。
But the other side is hesitant.
到后来，一开始愿意提供住宿的好心人，也不愿意了。
Later, good-hearted people who were willing to provide accommodation at first were unwilling to do so.
阿姨们又在医院外拐角处过了一晚。
The aunts spent another night on the corner outside the hospital.
晚些时候，一个好心人送来干粮，还有两件棉袄。
Later, a kind-hearted man brought dry grain and two cotton-padded coats.
终于不那么冷了。
It's not that cold anymore.
2护工、家政、医院：松散的劳动关系护工与家政、医院的关系松散，公司与其说是护工的管理者，不如说是护工的“中介”。
Caregivers, housekeepers, hospitals: Loose labour relations tend to be loosely linked to home economics and hospitals, and companies are more "middlemen" of caregivers than caregivers.
李娟（化名）在武汉经营一个规模较小的家政公司。
Li Juan (alias) runs a smaller home economics company in Wuhan.
她告诉南方周末记者，她介绍的护工基本是长期的，她介绍一个工作，雇主给200元介绍费，她管一年，在这一年里想换人的话，她再帮忙找别人。
She told Southern Weekend reporter that the nurses she introduced were basically long-term. She introduced a job where the employer paid 200 yuan for a referral.
今年情况特殊，介绍费涨到600元。
The introduction fee has risen to 600 yuan this year.
“护工荒”问题一直被业内所关注，尤其是每年春节期间，护工身价时常瞬间“陡增”。
"Nursing worker shortage" has been a concern in the industry, especially during the annual Spring Festival, the price of care workers often "suddenly increased."
李娟称，家政公司和护工签合同，只买意外险，雇主也不需要给护工买保险。
Home Affairs companies sign contracts with caretakers to buy only accident insurance, and employers don't have to buy insurance for care workers, Li said.
护工的住处不由家政公司负责，以前护工住在医院里，如今疫情时期，医院自顾不暇，也很难安排地方。
Nursing workers do not live in homes run by the home company, and care workers used to live in hospitals, which are struggling to fit in with the epidemic.
合同就是这么松散。
The contract is so loose.
雇主和护工两方任一方不满意，就换人，损失自己承担。
If either employer or caregiver is not satisfied, replace him or her at his or her own expense.
张姐手上捏着的是一份2018年初签的合同，是她从黄冈来武汉后不久签订的。
Zhang is holding a 2018 contract in her hand, which she signed shortly after coming to Wuhan from Huanggang.
那是一份简单的中介合同，连合同什么时候到期也没写。
It was a simple contract of intermediation, even when the contract expired.
“双方均同意本合同解除时，甲方退还押金500元给乙方”。
Both parties agree that when the contract is dissolved, Party A will refund Party B 500 yuan as a deposit.
责任主体缺失，在意外到来时，往往衍生出诸多问题。
The absence of the responsible subject often gives rise to many problems when the unexpected comes.
“我们打工的农村人，只晓得有事做就好，哪里管得了那么多？”张姐说。
"We work in the countryside, only know something to do good, where the tube so much?" Zhang said.
受疫情影响，眼下难以找到愿意去医院陪护的护工。
Due to the epidemic, it is difficult to find nurses willing to accompany the hospital at this time.
加之武汉市内交通管制，出行困难，护工都比较难找。
In addition to Wuhan city traffic control, travel difficulties, nurses are more difficult to find.
李娟说，有一个五十多岁的女护工最近找到她，希望能再介绍护工的工作。
Li said a nursing woman in her fifties had recently approached her and wanted to introduce her to the work of a nurse.
该护工以前在医院陪护，病人出院后，她又找了一个在工厂里打扫卫生的工作。
The caretaker used to be in the hospital, and after the patient was discharged from the hospital, she found another job cleaning the factory.
去年厂里不需要那么多清洁人员，她就又找了回来。
Last year the factory did not need so many cleaning people, she found back.
也有一些照顾新冠肺炎病人的护工需求。
There is also a need for nursing staff to take care of patients with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
王刚是武汉另一家家政公司的老板，他告诉南方周末记者，现在这种护工开价到800元一天，医院和家政公司都有分成，护工的住处不归家政公司管，保险看具体合同，有的是医院付，有的是家政公司付。
Wang Gang, the owner of another Wuhan family-owned company, told Southern Weekend that the nurse now charges as much as 800 yuan a day. Hospitals and home companies share the money.
要由医院或者病患家属提供防护服和口罩，护工至少要做满一个月，为了避免感染，护工不能出医院。
Protective clothing and masks should be provided by the hospital or the patient's family. The nurse should do it for at least one month.
张姐原本计划在春节前就回黄冈了，两个孙子等着她接送上学。
Miss Zhang had planned to return to Huanggang before the Spring Festival, and her two grandchildren were waiting for her to be taken to school.
但雇主的儿子无暇照顾母亲，儿媳又受了腰伤，便请她留下来再照顾一段时间。
However, the employer's son had no time to care for his mother and the daughter-in-law suffered a back injury, so she was asked to stay and take care of her for a while.
她不好意思拒绝，只好答应，打算过完春节再回家。
She was too shy to refuse, so she agreed to go home after the Spring Festival.
“没想到遭遇这一出。
"I didn't expect it.
”帮助张姐的志愿者曾问家政公司，能不能把他们在医院那间小办公室用来隔离、安顿，家政公司的人说，钥匙只有他们有，但他们现在也在隔离，无法送过来。
Volunteers who helped Zhang asked the home economics company if they could use the small office in the hospital to isolate and accommodate them, and people at the home office said they only had the keys, but they were now isolated and unable to deliver them.
他们能做的，或在做的，只有在网上寻找志愿者帮忙，或是反复给社区、卫健委打电话。
All they can do or do is look for volunteer help on the Internet or call communities and health committees repeatedly.
那位九十多岁雇主的儿子，担心张姐，打电话问她缺不缺吃的。
The son of an employer in his nineties, worried about Sister Zhang, called and asked her if she needed food.
张姐说缺，他便买了些“干粮”送来，是一些甜饼干。
Sister Zhang said lack of, he bought some "dry food" to send, is some sweet biscuits.
张姐有糖尿病，拜糖平快吃完了，不敢吃甜的。
Zhangjie has diabetes, fete sugar flat fast finish, dare not eat sweet.
但肚子饿得慌的时候，只能吃几块充饥。
But when he is hungry, he can only eat a few pieces to appease his hunger.
她去急诊室，讨点开水，就着饼干一起吃。
She went to the emergency room and asked for boiled water to eat with the biscuits.
那几天就这么捱过来。
That was the last few days.
也有一顿好吃的。
There was also a good meal.
送她们棉袄的好心人，在2月9日深夜送来盒饭，张姐已经好久没吃过热乎的饭菜了。
The kind-hearted man who gave them a cotton-padded jacket delivered a box of rice late at night on February 9th.
那是一个外地记者。
That's a foreign reporter.
3拉锯的社区：“远不止2个护工”2月9日，张姐和陈姐的安顿仍未有结果。
3 saw the community: "Far more than two care workers" February 9, Zhang Jie and Chen Jie's Anton has not yet come to a conclusion.
当天下午，几家其他区的社区卫生服务中心工作人员都在连线时告诉南方周末记者，这种情况可以在最近的社区开转诊单，让社区联系隔离点，问住处就说自己住在医院，提供身份证便好，“现在都是尽收尽治，不可能不收治的，尤其是还有已被确诊为阳性的”。
In the afternoon, community health service centre workers in several other districts told Southern Weekend reporters while on line that the situation could be referred to the nearest community, that the community could contact the isolation point, ask where they lived in the hospital and provide identity cards.
即便如此，在江岸区，她们仍然难以被收治。
Even so, they still find it difficult to be treated in the Jiangxi province.
一元街道扬子社区是张姐她们寻求帮助的社区。
One Yuan Street Yangzi Community is the community where they seek help.
该社区一名工作人员告诉南方周末记者，江岸区是疫情最严重的区域，很多感染病人都在江岸区，床位短缺。
A staff member of the community told Southern Weekend that the Jiangxi region is the worst affected region, with many infected patients in the river area and short of beds.
南方周末记者注意到，网上受到关注的百步亭便在江岸区。
Southern Weekend reporter noticed that the online attention of the hundred steps Pavilion is in the river area.
扬子社区紧挨武汉市中心医院，医院的护工都涌到这里登记。
The Yangzi community is next to Wuhan City Central Hospital, where hospital nurses have flocked to register.
这工作人员说。
said the clerk.
护工、医院、家政，最后都将压力放在了社区。
Carers, hospitals, home economics, and finally put the pressure on the community.
这背后是更深、更复杂的拉锯。
Behind this is a deeper and more complex jigsaw.
帮助两位阿姨的志愿者也找过医院。
Volunteers who helped two aunts also went to the hospital.
医院的答复是，现在安排患者住院，都需社区报送，医院不能擅自接收病人。
The hospital responded that the patients were now hospitalized and had to be reported by the community, and that the hospital could not take in patients without permission.
但社区给南方周末记者的回应却是，本地居民都安排不过来了，如果一旦确诊阳性，医院就可以收治。
But the community responded to Southern Weekend reporter, local residents are unable to arrange, if confirmed positive, the hospital can be admitted to treatment.
据南方周末记者了解，社区工作人员和医院就此协商良久，但未有解决方案。
Southern Weekend reporter understands, community worker and hospital consult on this for a long time, but did not have solution.
其中一名志愿者曾问医院工作人员，阿姨在外面露宿，能不能给阿姨一个休息的椅子，医院也说“没有”。
One of the volunteers asked the hospital staff, aunt sleeping outside, can give aunt a rest chair, the hospital said "no."
拉锯的另一方是家政公司，招聘这些护工的人。
The other side of the chain saw is the home company, the recruiter of these caretakers.
在家政公司的叙述里，他们曾经和社区吵过一架。
In the account of the home office, they had a quarrel with the community.
家政人员希望社区尽快安排护工隔离，社区人员则觉得，这是家政和医院的责任，家政和医院招聘了护工，应该负责安顿护工，而非要求社区优先上报。
Domestic workers want the community to segregate carers as soon as possible, while community members feel that this is the responsibility of domestic workers and hospitals, who have been recruited and should be responsible for placing carers rather than requiring community priority reporting.
前述社区工作人员解释了他们的困难。
The aforementioned community workers explained their difficulties.
事实上，张姐和陈姐并非个案。
In fact, Sister Zhang and Sister Chen are not individual cases.
早在1月28日，疫情还未如后来那样严峻，一名护工找上门来，他们作了登记并安排了隔离。
As early as 28 January, before the outbreak became as serious as it had become, a nurse came to the house and they registered and arranged for isolation.
这在家政公司的叙述里得到确证：社区曾帮他们的一个护工解决过问题，但也说过，“上一次帮你们解决，以后就不用来找我们了”。
This is confirmed by the company's account that the community helped one of their caregivers to solve the problem, but also said, "The last time you solved it, it will not come to us."
后来，上门寻求帮助的护工越来越多，“大约来了十多个”。
Later, more and more carers came to the door for help, "about a dozen."
随着疫情加重，本区居民的需求都无法满足，他们只得选择性地拒绝这些外来人员。
As the epidemic worsened and the needs of the inhabitants of the region could not be met, they had to selectively reject those outsiders.
如今，居民登记后，会让他们先回家。
Now, after registering, residents are told to go home first.
一旦隔离点有空位，他们就会打电话给社区居民，让他们赶紧过去，“去晚了就没有了”。
Once the isolation point was vacant, they would call the community and tell them to rush over. "There's no going late."
医疗资源的短缺，让收治仍然不易。
Shortages of medical resources continue to make admission difficult.
志愿者小杰在2月8日为两位护工发布了求助帖。
On Feb. 8, volunteer Jackie posted a help post for two caregivers.
2月9日，江岸区防疫指挥部的工作人员联系了她，说会和社区联系。
On 9 February, she was contacted by staff of the Jiangxi District Preventive Command, who said they would contact the community.
南方周末记者向扬子社区办公室求证了此事。
Southern Weekend reporter asked Yangzi community office to verify this matter.
到了那天晚上，情况有了改善，第一步的登记上报总算实现了。
By that night, the situation had improved and the first step of registration had finally been achieved.
不过，社区工作人员坦言，即便能够上报登记，也仍存隐患。
Community workers acknowledged, however, that even if registration could be reported, there were still risks.
他解释了其中逻辑：即便登记上报，也要等隔离点有位置，并排序等待，这一过程，于居民而言是自己在家隔离，但这些无家可归的护工，在社区和一些开放的小区里四处行走，可能成为移动的传染源。
He explained the logic: even when registered, the process of waiting for isolation points to be located and sequenced was self-imposed for residents, but the homeless caregivers, walking around the community and in some open neighbourhoods, could be a source of infection for the movement.
这位工作人员说，因此，聘用她们的家政公司和医院应该为她们找一个安置点。
The staff member said, therefore, that the companies and hospitals that employed them should find a place for them.
然而并没有。
However, it is not.
家政公司只能帮忙在网上联络志愿者，远程跟进事情发展。
Home Affairs companies can only help contact volunteers on the Internet to follow things up remotely.
医院也表达了自己的无能为力。
Hospitals have also expressed their powerlessness.
2月9日，社区为两名护工登记上报当天，湖北省委书记蒋超良在武汉市督导疫情防控工作，强调要加大工作力度，将排查出的所有确诊患者、疑似患者全部集中收治、分类隔离，确保应收尽收、应诊尽诊。
On February 9, 2007, the day the community registered two nurses, the secretary of Hubei province, Jiang Xiuliang, supervised the prevention and control of the epidemic in Wuhan city, stressing the need to intensify efforts to centralize and segregate all identified and suspected patients and to ensure that all incoming and outgoing patients are treated properly.
从上至下的政策和网络上引起波澜的众多求助一起，无疑给集中隔离的实施主体社区施加着双重压力。
The combination of top-down policies and numerous calls for help on the network undoubtedly exert double pressure on the implementing host communities in centralized isolation.
终于，到了2月10日中午，社区又打来了电话，让张姐和陈姐把行李带到社区，有车会接送她们去集中隔离点。
Finally, on February 10 at noon, the community called again and asked Miss Zhang and Sister Chen to take their luggage to the community.
张姐拎着一个大袋子，里面装着衣物；还有两个小袋子，是她口中的好心人送来的食物。
She was carrying a large bag with clothes in it, and two small bags of food from a kind man in her mouth.
她提着这三袋行李走到了社区，再被送往一个小型民营骨科医院改成的隔离点。
She took the three bags to the community, where she was taken to a small private orthopaedic hospital to be converted into a seclusion.
在隔离点，还未确诊的张姐和已确诊为阳性的陈姐住在一起，病房内还有其他一两个未确诊患者。
At the quarantine site, Ms. Zhang, who has not yet been diagnosed, lives with Chen, who has been diagnosed positive, and there are one or two other undiagnosed patients in the ward.
有两名护士每天送饭，但没有医生。
Two nurses deliver food every day, but there is no doctor.
张姐还是胸闷，说话接不上气，晚上睡不着觉， 糖尿病药也快吃完了。
Zhangjie or chest tightness, talk out of breath, at night can not sleep, diabetes medicine is almost finished.
她靠转诊住院的一股希望支撑。
She was propped up by a hope of referral to hospital.
悬着几天的心，稍微落下了一些。
Hang a few days of the heart, a little bit fell.
征集《南方周末》现向所有身处新冠肺炎一线的读者公开征集新闻线索。
Call Southern Weekend is now open to all readers on the front line of New Crown Pneumonia.
我们欢迎武汉及周边城市医患联系记者，提供防疫前线的一手资讯，讲述您的新春疫情见闻。
We welcome Wuhan and surrounding city doctors and patients contact reporters, provide a first-hand epidemic prevention information, to tell you about the New Year.
若您不在武汉，但您身处之所也有与疫情相关的重要新闻线索，亦欢迎您与我们分享。
If you are not in Wuhan, but you are in a place where you also have important news clues related to the epidemic, you are welcome to share with us.
疫情仍在蔓延，南方周末将执笔记录每位国人在疫情面前的希望与困境，与广大读者共同面对疫情。
The epidemic is still spreading. Southern Weekend will write about the hopes and difficulties of every Chinese people in the face of the epidemic and face the epidemic together with readers.
祝愿所有读者朋友们，新春平安。
Wish all readers a safe New Year.
线索可直接给本篇文章留言，格式为：【线索】+内容+您的电话（绝对会对您的个人信息保密）戳击下面图片 继续阅读专题。
The following picture is the most important part of the project. The following picture is the most important part of the project.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疑似感染后，两个外地护工的艰难收治。
Suspected infection, two field care workers difficult admission.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "南方周末";。
var nickname = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
var msg_title = "疑似感染后，两个外地护工的艰难收治";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; after a suspected infection.
var msg_desc = "在隔离点，还未确诊的张姐和已确诊为阳性的陈姐住在一起，病房内还有其他一两个未确诊患者。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at the quarantine site, Ms. Zhang, who has not been diagnosed, lives with Sister Chen, who has been diagnosed positive, and one or two other undiagnosed patients in the ward.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="南方周末";。
var title = & quot; South Weekend & quot;;
