武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免费餐食 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Min Hao Le Wuhan City: 9 hospitals to provide free meals for medical personnel - Economic Observation Network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="张晓晖";。
Var auther = & quot; Zhang Xiaohui;;;
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免费餐食。
Min Hao Le Wuhan City: 9 hospitals to provide free meals for medical personnel.
张晓晖2020-02-11 17:59。
Zhang Xiaohui 2020-02-11 17: 59.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
（受访者供图）。
(Respondents provided maps).
经济观察网 记者 张晓晖这个是一个武汉普通市民支援一线医护人员的故事。
Economic Observation Network reporter Zhang Xiaohui this is a Wuhan ordinary citizen to support front-line medical personnel's story.
。
.
2月11日，经济观察网记者从武汉同济医院的一位门诊医生处了解到，一位名为郝乐的武汉市民，自武汉封城之后，已经连续给9家医院提供免费餐食，令医护人员深受感动。
Wu Han, a resident of Wuhan Tongji Hospital, told reporters at Wuhan Tongji Hospital on February 11 that nine hospitals had been given free meals since the city was closed by Wuhan.
。
.
经济观察网记者了解到，郝乐是武汉顺意食坊（粤菜馆）的老板，原本在1月23日武汉封城之前备足了食材，就等春节期间的年夜饭生意，结果疫情一来，顺意食坊被迫关门谢客。
Hao Le, the owner of Wuhan Shunyi Fang (Cantonese restaurant), was forced to close down his restaurant after waiting for the Lunar New Year dinner business during the Spring Festival holiday, according to a report released on January 23.
。
.
1月25日，郝乐了解到武汉同济医院、协和医院、中山医院等多家医院的医护人员只用泡面充饥，医生护士防护服一穿就是6个小时，经常错过就餐时间，郝乐觉得自己作为武汉市民，应该在这场疫情中做点什么。
On January 25, Hao learned that doctors and nurses in Wuhan Tongji Hospital, Concorde Hospital and Zhongshan Hospital had to stay their hunger only. After wearing protective clothing for six hours and often missed meal times, Hao felt that as a Wuhan resident, he should do something about the epidemic.
。
.
郝乐找来几个在武汉的员工，开始为医院的医生护士们准备免费餐食，并且自己亲自配送。
Hole hired several Wuhan-based employees to start preparing free meals for the hospital's doctors and nurses and distributing them themselves.
同日下午，他在微信朋友圈发出了一条信息：。
On the afternoon of the same day, he sent a message to his circle of friends.
“本人经营一家餐馆。
"I run a restaurant.
目前武汉封城，所有餐厅关门，不知道医护人员们每天是否能吃上一口热饭热菜。
At present, Wuhan closed all restaurants, do not know whether the medical staff can eat a hot meal every day hot dishes.
经与滞留武汉的员工沟通，顺意食坊全体员工自愿回店加班，拿出店内所有食品备货，为所有医护人员提供免费后勤保障。
After communicating with the staff stranded in Wuhan, all the staff of Shunyi Restaurant voluntarily return to the store to work overtime, take out all the food available in the store, and provide free logistics for all medical personnel.
我们是粤菜馆，位于硚口区，年前大量备货，各类菜品齐全。
We are Cantonese restaurant, located in Zhangkou District, a large number of goods, a full range of dishes.
。
.
本店承诺：所有食材新鲜空运，无华南（指华南海鲜市场）采购，全店每日消毒，所有员工无任何发热症状。
We promise: all the ingredients are fresh air transport, no South China (referring to the South China Seafood Market) procurement, daily disinfection, all staff do not have any fever symptoms.
。
.
希望身边的朋友帮我扩散，任何医护人员有饮食需要，请及时与我联系，有车有人，汉口城区半小时内基本都能送到。
Hope the friends around me to help me diffuse, any medical staff have dietary needs, please contact me in time, there are cars, Hankou City half an hour can be delivered.
。
.
郝乐：133XXXXXXXX(24小时开机)。
HORO: 133XXXXXXXX (24-hour power on).
武汉加油！”。
Wuhan Come on!
发出朋友圈的当天，郝乐就接到上百个求助电话。
On the day he sent out his circle of friends, Hole received hundreds of calls.
。
.
至今，郝乐已经为武汉中山医院、协和医院、同济医院、中西医结合医院、新华医院等9家医院不同科室的医生护士提供免费餐食。
Up to now, Hao Le has provided free meals to doctors and nurses in different departments of nine hospitals, including Wuhan Zhongshan Hospital, Concorde Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Hospital and Xinhua Hospital.
。
.
（右一为正给医生送餐的郝乐）。
(On the right is Havre, who is giving the doctor a meal).
经济观察网记者找到郝乐，开始了下面这段对话：。
The Economist Intelligence Unit went to Hole and started the conversation.
经济观察网：你是武汉顺意食坊的老板吗？你的店有多大？有多少员工？受疫情影响，是什么时候开始停止营业的？。
Economic Observation Network: Are you the owner of Wuhan Shunyi Restaurant? How big is your store? How many employees are there? When did you stop business due to the epidemic?
郝乐：是的，我经营的是一家粤菜馆，门店面积总共400平方，有四个包厢，厨房加上前厅总共16个员工。
HOWELL: Yes, I run a Cantonese restaurant with a total area of 400 square meters and four boxes, a kitchen and a total of 16 employees in the lobby.
正式闭店是1月23日，但是从18号开始预定的年夜饭就在陆续退单。
The official closing date is January 23, but reservations for New Year's Eve meals from January 18 onwards are being refunded.
。
.
经济观察网：你是什么时候开始为武汉几家医院的科室提供免费餐食的？。
Economic Observation Network: When did you start to provide free meals for the departments of several hospitals in Wuhan?
郝乐：1月25日下午开始的。
SCARLETT: It started in the afternoon of January 25.
发了条朋友圈，然后当天接到了上百个求助电话。
I sent out a circle of friends and received hundreds of calls the same day.
。
.
经济观察网：你是武汉人吗？你的家人支持你这么做吗？你们亲自送餐到医院吗？所有餐都是你一个人送的吗？。
Economic Observation Network: Are you from Wuhan? Do your family support you? Do you personally deliver meals to the hospital? Do you give all your meals by yourself?
郝乐：我是武汉人。
SCARLETT: I'm from Wuhan.
家人非常支持我，能为抗击疫情做点什么，他们都非常乐意。
My family was very supportive and they were happy to do something about the epidemic.
因为店内大部分员工都回外地了，只有我一个人可以送餐，所以都是我自己送过去，我们送的量比较大。
Because most of the store staff have returned to the outside world, only I can deliver food alone, so I sent it by myself, we sent a relatively large amount.
偶尔量太大会带上一名员工和我一起分发。
Occasionally I would take an employee with me to hand it out.
。
.
经济观察网：最开始是怎么向医院配送餐食的？第一家医院是哪家医院？能否说说细节。
Economic Observation Network: How to distribute food to the hospital in the beginning? Which hospital is the first hospital? Could you tell me the details?
。
.
郝乐：第一家医院是同济医院，是1月25日下午一位志愿者联系的我，他们收集信息然后对接医院的需求和外界的供给。
Hao Le: The first hospital was Tongji Hospital. I was contacted by a volunteer in the afternoon of January 25.
因为一天接到一百多个电话，有的是真实的需求有的是滞后的信息，所以我需要一条条地和医院内部的医护人员核实情况。
Because I received more than a hundred calls a day, some with real needs and some with delayed information, I needed to check the situation one by one and within the hospital.
。
.
志愿者给了我联系方式以后，我加了同济医院护士的微信，她们是各个科室分派出来支援前线的护士。
After the volunteers gave me their contact information, I added a letter from the nurses at Tongji Hospital, who were assigned to the front lines by various departments.
因为上班时间不稳定，穿上防护服进了病房就是六个小时出不来，经常会错过吃饭时间，又没有外卖可点，所以常常吃泡面。
Due to erratic working hours, wearing protective clothing into the ward is six hours can not go out, often missed meal time, and no take-out point, so often eat noodles.
了解到需求以后，我当天晚上就按照他们的下班时间送去了餐食。
Knowing what they wanted, I delivered their meals that evening at their regular hours.
。
.
联系我的护士非常担心我的安全，让我不要进医院，放在门口，她们自己来取。
The nurse who contacted me was very worried about my safety and told me not to go to the hospital and leave it at the door.
。
.
目前送的医院有中山医院、协和、同济、中西医结合医院、新华医院、一医院、普爱医院、中医院、梅园宾馆隔离医护。
At present, hospitals are sent to Zhongshan Hospital, Concorde, Tongji, Chinese and Western medicine combined hospital, Xinhua Hospital, a hospital, Pu Ai Hospital, TCM Hospital, Mei Yuan Hotel for isolation and medical care.
。
.
不过只有同济和协和是大批量供应，其他医院基本都是对科室小批量供应。
However, only Tongji and Concorde is a large number of supplies, other hospitals are basically a small number of sections to supply.
关于送餐时间，中午一般都是11点-12点间送达，晚上一般是5点到6点送达。
As for the delivery time, it is usually served between 11 and 12 at noon and between 5 and 6 p.m. in the evening.
如果有个别不能及时吃到饭的医护，会自己加热一下吃。
If there are some medical care that can not be eaten in time, they will heat up their own food.
。
.
经济观察网：你们日均供应多少医务人员的餐食？供应量最大的是哪家医院？。
Economic Observation Network: How many medical staff do you serve on a daily basis? Which hospital is the most supplied?
郝乐：我们目前日均大概是230份的样子。
HOWELL: We have an average of about 230 copies a day.
由于各个医院食堂正在陆续回复供应，每日供应量已经在逐渐降低了。
Daily supplies are already running low as hospital canteens continue to be supplied.
最高峰的时候达到300多份，供应量最大的是协和医院。
At its peak, it reached more than 300, with Concorde Hospital providing the largest supply.
。
.
经济观察网：我看到你朋友圈说节前囤积了比较多的食材，你们大概囤积了多少食材？。
Economic Observation Network: I saw your friends said before the festival hoarded more food materials, you probably hoarded how much food?
郝乐：囤积的食材要分两方面。
HOWELL: There are two ways to hoard food.
一种是适合做盒饭的比如说炒菜炖菜的材料，一种是无法做盒饭的食材比如说海鲜药材之类的。
One kind is suitable for making boxed rice, such as cooking stew material, one is unable to make boxed rice ingredients such as seafood medicinal materials.
单能做盒饭的这一批食材总量大概在一吨左右，这里面是不包含米油的。
The total amount of raw materials that can be made into boxed rice alone is about one ton. There is no rice oil in it.
。
.
经济观察网：送餐的过程中，你自己害怕感染病毒吗？你的交通工具是汽车么？汽车会进行消毒处理吗？是否每家医院都是指定地点，医护人员自己出来取？。
Economic Watch: Are you afraid of getting infected with the virus while delivering food? Is your vehicle a car? Will the car be disinfected? Is every hospital a designated location where the paramedics come out to collect it?
郝乐：送餐的话都是我开车送到医院门口，由科室安排人出来取餐。
HOWELL: If you bring a meal, I drive it to the door of the hospital and the office arranges for someone to come out to get it.
车每天都会消毒，内外都会采取酒精或者健之素消毒，我们对这个新型冠状病毒非常的重视，但是我们并不害怕或者说恐慌。
The car will be disinfected every day, inside and outside will be alcohol or health care disinfection, we pay great attention to this new coronavirus, but we are not afraid or panic.
我们的防护工作做的比较好，每天自身的消毒以及测量体温。
We do a better job of protection, self-disinfection and temperature measurement every day.
新闻上也说了这个病毒的克服很大一部分是要靠自身的免疫力，我们是粤菜馆，平时就注重养生，不会吃任何有味精鸡精和添加剂的食品，平日也会有一定的锻炼，再加上每日都会用中药材煲汤增强免疫力，所以我店内员工很少生病，发现病毒至今，店里没有任何员工有发热情况。
The news also said that the virus to overcome a large part of its own immunity, we are Cantonese restaurant, usually pay attention to health care, will not eat any monosodium glutamate chicken essence and additives, will have some exercise on weekdays, and will use Chinese herbs soup to enhance immunity, so our staff rarely get sick, found no virus so far, there is no staff fever.
。
.
经济观察网：你的顺意食坊开了多少年？这次疫情让你遭受了多少损失？你今后的打算是什么？。
Economic Watch: How long has your favorite food restaurant been open? How much has the epidemic cost you? What are your plans for the future?
郝乐：顺意食坊是我从事餐饮行业的第一家店，总共是开了16个月。
HORO: Shunyi Restaurant was the first restaurant I ever owned in the restaurant business. It lasted 16 months.
截至2月11日的亏损大概在三十万左右，如果我们短期内不能正常营业，每个月的亏损大概是在二十万左右。
The loss as of February 11 is about 300,000, and if we can't do business right in the short term, the monthly loss is about 200,000.
。
.
今后要看疫情的发展情况，目前全国的医疗力量都在帮助武汉，相信我们很快能战胜疫情。
The future depends on the development of the epidemic, the current national medical forces are helping Wuhan, I believe that we will soon be able to overcome the epidemic.
。
.
对话结束后，郝乐又忙着给几家医院送餐过去。
After the conversation, Hobo busied himself with delivering meals to several hospitals.
。
.
经济观察网记者在郝乐的朋友圈里面看到一则医生家属和他之间的对话：。
An Economic Watch reporter saw a conversation between a doctor's family and Hao Le's circle of friends.
医生家属：“你好你是顺义美食坊老板吗？我老公是协和医院医生，他昨天刚刚从一线下来，他怕自己随时会中病毒所以跟我们隔离了，现在他一个人在越秀云锦的加重，过年家里也没什么吃的，你能不能给他送吃的去，多少钱我们照付。
The doctor's family: "Hello, you are the owner of Shunyi Gourmet Square? My husband is a doctor at Concorde Hospital. He just came down from the front yesterday. He is isolated from us.
”。
"
郝乐：“地址发给我，这个时间有忌口吗？家里有没有煤气可以加热？”。
Hao Le: "Address to me, this time there are contraindications? Is there gas in the home can be heated?"
医生家属：“没有什么，他就是不吃辣椒，家里有煤气可以加热，就是没什么菜了。
"The doctor's family:" Nothing, he just does not eat pepper, there is gas can be heated at home, but there is no food.
在越秀星汇云锦XXX，你到了给他打电话。
In Yuexiu Xinghui Yunjin XXX, you call him when you get there.
协和医院的，谢谢您，他昨天下夜班估计也没吃什么，今天在家休息明天又去上一线。
Thank you for coming to Concorde Hospital. He probably didn't eat anything at night yesterday. He's at home today.
多少钱您告诉他啊。
Tell him how much it costs.
”。
"
郝乐：“好的没问题，我来联系，餐费您就不用操心了，是我们该向你们致敬！”。
Hao Le: OK, I'll get in touch with you. You needn't worry about the meal.
2月1日，郝乐又发了一个朋友圈称：这几天陆续有爱心人士给我们送来食材及物资，以保证我们库存充足，保障前线医护人员的餐食。
On February 1, Hao sent a circle of friends to say: In the past few days, loving people have brought us food and materials to ensure that we have enough food in stock to protect the meals of front-line medical staff.
巧巧、李女士、金小姐还有两位我连姓名都不知道的无名英雄。
Coincidentally, Ms. Lee, Miss King and two unsung heroes whose names I don't even know.
。
.
我在此代表全体顺意人对你们表示衷心的感谢和敬意！尽己所能，使命必达！武汉加油！。
On behalf of all those who are willing to express sincere thanks and respect to you! Do your best, the mission must be achieved! Wuhan refueling.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
张晓晖经济观察报记者。
Zhang Xiaohui Economic Observer reporter.
资本市场部记者。
Reporter, Capital Markets Department.
从事新闻行业超过12年，专注于时政、公司新闻报道，擅长采访、调查、取证和突破。
More than 12 years of journalism, specializing in current affairs, corporate journalism, good at interviewing, investigation, evidence gathering and breakthrough.
2006年起在经济观察报华东新闻中心（上海）工作，2008年派驻重庆，负责西南地区新闻报道。
Since 2006, he has worked in the East China Information Center (Shanghai) of the Economic Observer, and in 2008 he has been posted in Chongqing to cover the Southwest China News.
常驻重庆。
Resident in Chongqing.
。
.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人   。
1, Wuhan city Min Hao Le: 9 hospitals for the medical personnel.
2、东风本田取消1-2月目标考核 110%返   。
2, Dongfeng Honda canceled the January-February target of 110% return.
3、疫情冲击下的教育类公司：股价波动   。
3. Educational companies under the impact of the epidemic: stock price volatility.
4、 “租售同权”被疫情打出原形   。
The same right to rent and sell was typified by the epidemic situation.
5、数十万燕郊人如何去北京上班   。
How hundreds of thousands of Yanbian people go to work in Beijing.
6、快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府   。
6. Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district government.
7、银保监会：老年人保险产品供给覆盖   。
Banking Supervision Commission: coverage of insurance products for the elderly.
8、“不想上网课，老师变主播”网课首   。
8, "Do not want to online classes, teachers change masters" Internet course head.
9、收购案十年后吉利与沃尔沃筹划合并   。
Geely and Volvo are planning a merger ten years after the takeover.
10、专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我   。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of the Orange Hotel.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
