“不想上网课，老师变主播”网课首日遭遇花式吐槽到底怎么了？ - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
"Do not want to online classes, teachers change masters" experience the first day of fancy spit after all what? - Economic Observation Network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="李静";。
Var auther = & quot; Li Jing & quot;;
“不想上网课，老师变主播”网课首日遭遇花式吐槽到底怎么了？。
"Do not want to online classes, teachers change masters" the first day encountered fancy spitting groove after all how?
李静2020-02-11 15:26。
Li Jing 2020-02-11 15: 26.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 李静“眼睛真的受不了”、“有娃的真累啊”，2月11日，一位学生家长提供给经济观察网的截图中显示，班级微信群里多位家长对于近期学校采用“线上授课”响应教育部疫情期间中小学生“停课不停学”的方式叫苦不迭。
Many parents in the class complained of the recent use of "on-line teaching" in response to the "school suspension" of primary and middle school students during the MoE epidemic, according to a screenshot provided to the Economic Watch on Feb. 11.
。
.
2020年1月，为阻断新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情向校园蔓延，教育部下发通知要求2020年春季学期延期开学。
In January 2020, to halt the spread of the new coronavirus pneumonia on campus, the Ministry of Education issued a circular to postpone the start of the school term in the spring of 2020.
1月29日，教育部有关负责人在接受采访时表示，各地教育部门为服务保障防控期间中小学校“停课不停教、不停学”做了大量工作。
On 29 January, the head of the Ministry of Education said in an interview that education departments around the country had done a lot of work to ensure that primary and secondary schools "stop teaching and learning."
“不能面对面课堂上课，我们就搭建云课堂，让孩子们在家也能开展学习”。
"Without face-to-face classes, we build cloud classrooms where children can learn at home," he said.
。
.
此后，为做好疫情期间“停课不停学”的号召，包括湖北、广东、山西太原等各省（市、区）教育部门陆续下发通知，要求做好“在家上课”行动计划。
Since then, in order to do a good job during the outbreak of "non-stop learning," including Hubei, Guangdong, Shanxi Taiyuan and other provincial (city, district) departments of education issued a notice to do a good job of "classes at home."
。
.
一位河北省高一年级的学生告诉经济观察网，“上周已经收到学校延期开学但要线上授课的通知，每天早上7点就得起来，梳洗完毕后就开启摄像头，在老师的要求下监督打卡，开启一天的课程。
"Last week I received a notice from my school to postpone the start of school but to teach online, I had to get up at 7 a.m. every morning, turn on the camera as soon as I was done, monitor the card at the teacher's request and start a day of classes," a senior year student in Hebei told the Economic Watch.
。
.
“一般是上午3多小时的在线文化课“，下午两节，然后会安排相关考卷测试，晚上老师在微信进行答疑。
"Generally is the morning of more than three hours of online literacy classes," two sections in the afternoon, then will arrange the relevant test papers, the evening teacher in the micro-letter to answer questions.
不说上课效果，就是这种强度比平时上课也好不了多少”，上述高一年级学生说道。
Not to mention the effect, the intensity of the class is not much better than usual, "said the first-grader.
。
.
尽管学校已经要求老师在课间安排远眺和眼保健操时间，但是一连三天的课程上下来，还是让他感觉眼部干涩，非常吃力。
Although the school had asked the teacher to arrange the viewing and eye exercises between classes, the three-day course left him feeling dry and struggling.
“网络不像是课堂授课，可以较为专心，有时候听着听着就发呆、愣神”，上述高一年级学生表示，“我也不知道这几天到底听了什么，学了什么。
"The Internet is not like a classroom lecture, you can be more attentive, sometimes listen to a daze, stunned," said the senior student, "I do not know what exactly I have heard these days and what I have learned.
“。
"
从面对面授课到切入网课模式，教育模式的突然改变除了让学生感到不适应外，同样也让老师感到无奈。
From face-to-face instruction to the Internet-based mode, the sudden change in the educational model not only makes students feel uncomfortable, but also makes teachers feel helpless.
。
.
一位合肥的语文老师对经济观察网表示，为了响应学校号召上好网课，自己已提前一周时间开始尝试各种教案，但在课程中依然避免不了很多细节的尴尬局面。
A Hefei language teacher told the watchdog that he had started experimenting with teaching proposals a week in advance in response to the school's call for good online classes, but was still embarrassed with many details in the course.
“例如卡顿、掉线、直播过程中没有声音等。
"For example, Carton, off-line, no sound during the live broadcast, etc.
”。
"
“有时候上着上着课就没声了，屏幕定格，跟学生的交流也因此被迫中断。
"Sometimes the lessons are silent, the screen is still, and communication with the students is interrupted.
“按照上述语文老师估算，一小时的课程基本卡顿都在三次以上。
"According to the above language teacher's estimate, the basic one-hour course is more than three times.
。
.
对于社交媒体上一些调侃“老师成为主播”的段子，这位老师感到颇为无奈“都是特殊时期的安排，大家只能克服。
For some social media ridicule "teachers become anchors" paragraph, the teacher felt quite helpless "are special time arrangements, we can only overcome.
”同时，他也认为这种在线的方式对于实际教学效果很难把握。
At the same time, he says the online approach is difficult to grasp for practical results.
。
.
“可以说，在线授课对教学是有一定价值，但弊处一样很明显。
"Arguably, online instruction has some value for teaching, but the disadvantages are just as obvious.
电子设备对学生的视力的伤害；年龄段不同，孩子的自控力、注意力能否保证和集中？中学生都不一定能适应高强度的在线学习，更何况是小学生。
The damage of electronic equipment to students' eyesight; the children's self-control and attention can be guaranteed and concentrated at different ages? High school students can not adapt to the high intensity of online learning, not to mention the primary school students.
”。
"
另一方面，在线教学、网课出来已经有几年了，并不是新鲜东西。
On the other hand, online teaching, online classes have come out for several years, is not a new thing.
但一直作为课堂补充，是因为线上授课与面对面是不一样的，老师需要掌握的技巧也不同。
But always as a classroom supplement, because online instruction and face-to-face is not the same, teachers need to master different skills.
“教与学是一个互动过程，老师不是一个只会念教案的机器，需要与孩子进行交流，随时提问了解掌握情况“，上述语文老师说道。
"Teaching and learning is an interactive process. Teachers are not just learning to read books. They need to talk to their children and ask questions and get to know the situation," the language teacher said.
。
.
2月10日是网课首日，尽管按照之前多个城市教育部门发布的寒暑假规划是在7天之后才正式迎来中小学生开学季，但仍有一些地区选择在这一天启动孩子在家上课的网上教学模式。
February 10 is the first day of classes, although the school year starts seven days later, according to the previous winter and summer plans issued by several city education departments. However, some regions still choose to launch the online teaching model for home-based classes.
面对突然变更的教学方式，家长和老师一些不适应的言论频频在社交媒体上发酵，登上了微博热搜。
Faced with the sudden change in teaching methods, parents and teachers some of the inappropriate remarks frequently ferment on social media, boarded Weibo hot search.
。
.
“从昨天早上7:50分签到、8点上课到晚上23:00才搞完作业。
I checked in at 7: 50 yesterday morning and finished my homework at 8: 00 a.m. and 23: 00 p.m. yesterday
一位小学家长告诉经济观察网，“你不知道我们现在什么样，三个手机一台IPAD、一个笔记本、一台打印机，前后切换，昨天开课一整天累到要疯了”。
"You don't know what we are like, three mobile phones - one IPAD, one laptop, one printer, switching back and forth, all day yesterday," one elementary school parent told the Economic Watch.
。
.
按照这位家长孩子所在学校的安排，打卡需要在班级小管家完成，授课是在钉钉、视频通等平台，此外还要利用传统QQ群发布作业、上传微课视频等。
According to the parents and children's school, the card needs to be completed in the class butler, teaching in nail, video and other platforms, in addition to the traditional QQ group to release work, upload micro-class videos, and so on.
多个平台的使用，也令包括她在内的家长头痛不已。
The use of multiple platforms has also been a headache for parents, including her.
。
.
“遭遇卡顿就不说了。
"Don't say anything when you meet Carton.
想在8点准时上课，家长需要在6:40分就开始抢占电子教室房间。
To start classes on time at 8: 40, parents need to grab an e-room at 6: 40.
接着“体育视频打卡，早饭、开课、午饭、上课、下午5点钟结束，晚饭后还要在晚上0点前各科作业截止前打卡“，上述家长说道。
Then "sports video card-punching, breakfast, class, lunch, class, 5 p. m., and after dinner, before the end of homework for all subjects," the parents said.
。
.
对于学生、家长们的慌乱，英国杜伦大学教育专家wendy对经济观察网表示，在线互联网的授课方式一定会在孩子教育中扮演越来越重要的角色，只是这一次受到疫情影响，让原本缓慢的演化方式变成突然变化和增长，使得没有在线教育经验的一部分学校、老师、家长和孩子手忙脚乱，这是可以理解的。
Understandably, online Internet instruction will play an increasingly important role in educating children, but this time it is understandable that schools, teachers, parents and children who do not have online education experience will be overwhelmed by the epidemic, which has turned slow evolution into sudden changes and growth, an education expert at Durham told the Economic Watch.
。
.
但她认为，互联网教育公司或者有在线教育经验的企业已经积累多年，摸索处新的教学模式，但让大量没有受过此中培训的老师立时适应这种方式，不可能是一朝一夕就能学会的。
But she believes that Internet education companies, or companies with online education experience, have been groping for new models for years, but letting a large number of untrained teachers get used to it instantly cannot be learned overnight.
“在线教育从来都不是电视大学的翻版“，wendy说道。
"Online education has never been a replica of TV universities," says Wendy.
。
.
不想当主播、不像上网课，对在线教学的花式吐槽仍在继续。
Not wanting to be a anchorman, unlike online classes, the fancy spit on online teaching continues.
在21世纪教育研究院副院长熊丙奇看来，吐槽”背后的严肃问题——是当前在线教学存在错位。
According to Xiong Bingqi, vice-dean of the Institute of Education for the 21st Century, the "serious problem behind spitting" is the current mismatch between online teaching and learning.
。
.
“一线教师不是都要当“主播”，他们的角色应该是在线互动辅导老师。
"Not all frontline teachers have to be" anchormen "; their role should be that of an online interactive tutor.
很多学校要求教师去录课、直播，这是不必要的，用好国家云课堂、各地教育部门、在线教育机构开放的在线课程资源就可以了。
Many schools require teachers to record classes and broadcast live, which is unnecessary and can be done with online course resources that are available in national cloud classrooms, education departments around the country, and online educational institutions.
老师没经过专业的培训，把平时上课的内容搬到网上，很难吸引学生，一些录制的网络课程是经过反复打磨，甚至后期编辑的。
Teachers do not have professional training, the content of ordinary classes to move online, it is difficult to attract students, some recorded online courses have been repeatedly polished, or even late editing.
把平时没有上过直播课的教师一下子推到镜头前，出“洋相”是免不了的，这样的直播课也难有好的效果，熊丙奇说。
It is inevitable that a teacher who has not attended a live lecture is pushed into front of the camera, making a "foreign appearance" is inevitable, and such live classes are unlikely to have a good effect, Xiong said.
。
.
“另一方面，对于学习效果而言，在线教学对学生的自主学习能力要求更高，这就需要增加在线教学的互动性，教师的作用也就体现在这方面。
"On the other hand, for learning effect, online teaching is more demanding to students' autonomous learning ability, which needs to increase the interactivity of online teaching, which is reflected in the role of teachers.
也就是说，教师的主要角色是网络课程主讲教师的“助教”，与主讲教师组合为“双师”，提高在线教学的吸引力。
In other words, the main role of teachers is the network course lecturer teacher "assistant," and lecturer combination of "double division" to enhance the attractiveness of online teaching.
”熊丙奇认为，同时也要发挥好家长的监督作用。
Xiong believed that parents should also play a good supervisory role.
。
.
受到疫情影响，不能上课的学生开始频频开启网上学习模式，在此期间多家教育平台开始推出线上课程。
Affected by the epidemic, students unable to attend classes began to frequently open online learning mode, during which a number of educational platforms began to launch online courses.
这个暑假，据经济观察网不完全统计，包括网易有道、钉钉、智学网、作业帮等均推出线上课程或直播平台应对在线学习的热潮。
This summer, according to the Economic Observation Network incomplete statistics, including Netease Road, nailing, think-tank network, homework to launch online courses or live platform to cope with the upsurge of online learning.
。
.
与此同时，突增的流量也让一部分平台在2月10日这天开始出现卡顿、运行不稳定的状况。
At the same time, the surge in traffic allowed some platforms to start functioning unsteadily on February 10.
2月10日上午9点44分，教育信息化应用工具提供商——希沃SEEWO在其官方微博发布公告称，今天早上8点全国各地学校集中开学，据报告今天线上上课人数超两亿，导致阿里、华为交互服务全面压力过载，现在全国直播平台计划因此原因导致暂时无法正常稳定运行。
At 9: 44 a.m. on Feb. 10, Shiv SEEWO, a provider of educational information-based applications, said in an official Weibo announcement that schools across the country had opened at 8 a.m. today, reportedly with more than 200 million people attending classes online today.
对于直播平台第一次有这种规模…….只能尽最大努力，尽快恢复直播服务运行。
For the first time the live broadcast platform has this scale... can only do its best to resume the live broadcast service operation as soon as possible.
。
.
南华大学经济管理与法学学院副教授欧阳爱辉认为，网络教学、网络课程的大量出现，符合当前信息化社会互联网飞速发展的需要。
Ouyang Aihui, associate professor in the School of Economic Management and Law, South China University, thinks that the large number of online teaching and online courses meet the needs of the rapid development of Internet in the current information society.
这次疫情的出现客观上给予网络教学发展创造了一定条件。
The appearance of this epidemic situation objectively creates certain conditions for the development of network teaching.
但毕竟属于虚拟教学模式，与传统线下授课有较大差别，不可能取代传统教学，只能成为彼此的相互补充。
After all, it belongs to the virtual teaching mode, which is quite different from the traditional one, can not replace the traditional teaching, but can only be complementary to each other.
。
.
同时，欧阳爱辉也提醒到，“网络教学中应创造更完善的技术服务方式，能够令学生更好地进行个性化、自主化、互助化学习。
At the same time, Ouyang Ai-hui also reminded that "network teaching should create a more perfect way of technical services, so that students can better personalized, autonomous, mutual assistance learning.
还应充分考虑老师、学生彼此隐私等个人信息保护。
Teachers and students should also give full consideration to each other privacy and other personal information protection.
”本文经「原本」原创认证，作者经济观察报，访问yuanben.io查询【27MXA1VB】获取授权信息。
This article was "originally" certified, and the author of the Economic Observer visited yuanben.io [27MXA1VB] for authorization information.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
李静经济观察报记者。
Li Jing Economic Observer reporter.
大科创新闻部记者。
Department of Public Information.
长期关注教育、财经领域。
Long-term focus on education, finance.
新闻线索请联系lijing@eeo.com.cn。
For news leads contact lijing @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、东风本田取消1-2月目标考核 110%返   。
1, Dongfeng Honda canceled the January-February target of 110% return.
2、疫情冲击下的教育类公司：股价波动   。
2. Educational companies under the impact of the epidemic: stock price volatility.
3、 “租售同权”被疫情打出原形   。
The same right to hire and sell was typified by the epidemic.
4、数十万燕郊人如何去北京上班   。
How do hundreds of thousands of Yanbian people go to work in Beijing?
5、快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府   。
5. Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district government.
6、银保监会：老年人保险产品供给覆盖   。
Banking Supervision Commission: coverage of insurance products for the elderly.
7、“不想上网课，老师变主播”网课首   。
7, "Do not want to online classes, teachers change masters" Internet course head.
8、收购案十年后吉利与沃尔沃筹划合并   。
Geely and Volvo are planning a merger ten years after the takeover.
9、专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我   。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of the Orange Hotel.
10、13家上市车企近半数2019年净利下滑   。
Nearly half of the 10. 13 listed companies saw their net profit fall in 2019.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
X选择其他平台 >>分享到。
X has selected other platforms; & gt; shared.
