高三老师谈疫情下的高考备考：自律能力很差就会被“废”掉 - 经济观察网 － 专业财经新闻网站。
Senior three teachers talk about the epidemic under the college entrance exam preparation: poor self-discipline will be "waste" - economic observation network - professional financial news website.
window.open (now_url, "优酷弹窗", "height=300, width=400, left=450, top=180, toolbar =no, menubar=no, scrollbars=no, resizable=no, location=no, status=no");。
window.open. (now _ url, & quot; cool bullet & quot; & quot; light = 300, fifth = 400, left = 450, top = 180, toolbar = no, menubar = no, scrollbars = no, responsible = no, position = no, status = no, status = no & quot;);
您好  退出。
Good morning.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
激活卡。
Activate the card.
电子版。
Electronic version.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
首页。
Home page.
商业产业。
Commercial industry.
财经。
Finance.
地产。
Real estate.
汽车。
Automobiles.
评论。
Comment.
视频。
Video.
研究院。
Graduate School.
用户名登录/手机号登录。
User name login / cell phone number login.
还没有账号？免费注册。
No account number? Free registration.
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
忘记密码？。
Forget the code?
登 录。
Registration.
关闭。
Closed.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入验证码');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter a certificate number & apos;);
var getRequest = true; // 是否请求验证码。
var getRequest = true; / / Whether or not to request a authentication code.
$('#al_warn2').text('*请输入手机号');。
$(& apos; # al _ warn2 & apos;) .text (& apos; * please enter phone number & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').val(--waitTime +'重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .val (- wait Time + & apos; Re-acquired & apos;);
$('#mobile_send1').removeClass('disable').css('cursor','pointer').attr('disable', '').val('重新获取');。
$(& apos; # mobile _ send1 & apos;) .removeClass (& apos; disable & apos;) .css (& apos; cursor & apos;, & apos; & P & apos;) .attr (& apos; disable & apos; & P; & apos; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & P; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & quot; & apos; & qu
var author="李静";。
Var auther = & quot; Li Jing & quot;;
高三老师谈疫情下的高考备考：自律能力很差就会被“废”掉。
Senior three teachers talk about the epidemic under the college entrance examination preparation: poor self-discipline will be "waste."
李静2020-02-11 21:36。
Li Jing 2020-02-11 21: 36.
扫描二维码分享到朋友圈。
Scanning two-dimensional code to share with friends.
经济观察网 记者 李静 实习记者 刘兰受到疫情影响，近期多地学校采用“线上授课”的方式响应教育部疫情期间学校“停课不停学”行动。
Li Jing, a journalist with the Economic Watch network, was affected by the outbreak. Recently, many schools responded to the school's "no-stop-learning" campaign with "on-line teaching" in response to the epidemic.
这一行动，牵扯众多，也包括正在复习冲刺阶段的高三备考生们。
This action, involves many, also includes is reviewing the sprint stage high three candidates.
。
.
疫情对于教学工作、班级管理影响几何？从面对面授课到切入网课模式，学习方式的突然改变能否带来理想效果？高三学生在这一轮疫情中应该如何复习？2月8日，一位江西省宜春市高三年级班主任对经济观察网表示，学校延期开学带来的主要影响是，学生在家上课，老师鞭长莫及。
From the face-to-face teaching to the classroom management, how can the sudden change in learning style bring about the desired results? February 8, a senior high school teacher in Yichun City, Jiangxi Province, told the Economic Observation Network that the main impact of the delayed start of classes is that students attend classes from home and teachers are unable to do so.
未来疫情好转，对这一个月的欠账还起来肯定压力很大。
The future of the epidemic improved, this month's debt to pay up must be a lot of pressure.
。
.
授课方式突然的转变正在给他的日常教学带来变化。
A sudden shift in the way he teaches is making a difference in his daily teaching.
目前，他所在学校也在积极寻找网络直播平台，但选择过程中，硬件的限制、可容纳的在线上课人数都令他和他所在的学校感到纠结。
His school is also actively searching for a live webcasting platform, but he and his school have struggled with hardware limitations and the number of classes available online.
与此同时，延迟上课、网上教学增加了这届高三考生的复习难度。
At the same time, delayed classes, online teaching increased the difficulty of this year's high three examinee review.
对于备考生而言，上述老师建议，学生应在目前阶段克服惰性，加强自律，尽快把基础性内容打牢固。
For candidates, the teacher suggested that students should overcome inertia at this stage, strengthen self-discipline, as soon as possible to strengthen the foundation of the content.
。
.
Q:开学推迟对高三学生有什么影响？。
Q: What effect does the postponement of classes have on senior high school students?
A:好麻烦，现在高三学生，自律能力很差的就会“废”掉。
A: Good trouble, now high three students, self-discipline is very poor will be "waste."
我们说疫情也是一个优胜劣汰的过程，身体素质好的能扛过去，身体素质不好的扛不过去；其实这个疫情对很多自律的学生而言也是个优胜劣汰的过程。
We say that the epidemic is also a process of survival, good physical quality can carry past, physical quality can not be carried through; in fact, this epidemic for many students of self-discipline is a competitive process.
。
.
Q:现在学校状况如何？。
Q: What's the status of school now?
A:可以用“一团乱麻”来形容。
A: It can be described as a "mess."
目前学校在找网络直播平台，可是找不到一个比较合适的，有些直播课程对硬件条件要求有限制。
At present the school is looking for a live webcasting platform, but can not find a more appropriate, some live courses on the requirements of the hardware requirements.
昨天晚上找到一个比较好的直播平台，但需要老师配备手写板，没有手写板的理科老师没有办法直播上课，因为理科老师需要板书。
A better live broadcast platform was found last night, but teachers were required to have handwritten boards, and science teachers who did not have them could not broadcast them live because science teachers needed them.
。
.
Q:你了解到其它学校也这样吗？。
Q: Did you know that other schools do the same?
A:现在每个学校基本都是按自己的规划办，基本就是看哪个学校有比较好的效果。
A: Now each school basically does according to its own plan, basically is to see which school has the better effect.
我了解的，衡水中学就在用抖音平台进行录播，很多地方都是这样，一个老师对着全年级几千人上课，你觉得这效果会好吗？都是老师自我感觉良好，实际效果怎么样并不知道。
I understand, Hengshui high school is using the dither platform to record, many places, a teacher to the year thousands of classes, you think this effect will be good? Teachers feel good about themselves, how the actual effect is unknown.
。
.
Q:目前高三复习进行到哪一阶段？。
Q: At present, which stage do you review in your senior year?
A:现在还在第一阶段，一轮复习，主要是总结归纳做真题。
A: It's still in the first stage. One round of revision is mainly to sum up and do some exercises.
这段时间还是要学生自己归纳，等到2月17号之后，再考虑老师使用直播平台上一些课。
It's time for students to sum up and wait until Feb. 17 before considering some classes on the live broadcast platform.
之后是推进二轮教学，一轮和二轮同时进行，把基础知识记诵、串联与运用相结合，学生自主的一轮复习尤其重要。
Then the second round of teaching will be promoted, one round and two rounds simultaneously, combining basic knowledge recitation with series and application.
。
.
按照目前情况，2020高考不推迟的话，一轮复习就只能够在这段时间内完成。
According to the current situation, if the 2020 college entrance examination does not delay, a review can only be completed in that time.
学生在家如果不能把自己不知道的东西搞懂，开学以后很有可能就直接进入第二轮复习。
Students at home if they do not know what they do not understand, after school is likely to go straight to the second round of review.
高考不推迟，课程进度不能晚，如果课程进度慢了，更麻烦，必须把一些程序走完。
College entrance examination does not delay, the course schedule can not be late, if the pace of the course slow, more troublesome, must be some procedures to complete.
。
.
现在只能这样，希望这个时候学生能够自律一些，把握好自己的时间，但我们看到的是，很多人认识不到这一点。
Now we can only do so, I hope this time students can self-discipline, take good control of their time, but we see that many people do not realize this.
。
.
Q:像目前这种形式，老师怎么指导和推进一轮复习工作？。
Q: How can a teacher guide and push through a review process like this one?
A:现在控制不了，我们老师只能在网上进行监督，早点起来读书啊，其它的一点办法都没有。
A: We can't control it now. Our teachers can only supervise it on the Internet and get up early to read.
这个时候人都有惰性，可以理解，但不能够因为有惰性就放纵自己。
At this time people have inertia, understandable, but can not indulge themselves because of inertia.
。
.
主要还是要他们（学生）重视，总结基本概念、知识框架，如果能够掌握这些，开学之后的第二轮复习不会受很大影响。
The main thing is that they (students) value, summarize the basic concepts, knowledge framework, if able to master these, the second round of review after the beginning of school will not be greatly affected.
现在老师帮学生归纳没用的，学生要学会自己归纳，在归纳中也是自己对知识的理解过程。
Now teachers help students to sum up the useless, students should learn their own induction, in the induction is also their own process of understanding knowledge.
。
.
Q:这种应急准备大概要安排到什么时候？。
Q: How long will the emergency preparedness be arranged?
A:最起码要到2月底。
A: At least until the end of February.
。
.
Q:疫情对于日常教学工作、班级管理工作的影响在哪？。
Q: What is the impact of epidemic situation on daily teaching work and class management?
A:影响肯定是鞭长莫及，心有余而力不足。
A: The impact is definitely out of reach.
未来疫情好转，对这一个月的欠账还起来肯定压力很大。
The future of the epidemic improved, this month's debt to pay up must be a lot of pressure.
。
.
Q:会对升学率有影响吗？。
Q: Will it affect the promotion rate?
A:疫情对于全国都有影响，所以大家面对的基本都一样，不存在大影响。
A: The epidemic has an impact on the whole country, so we all have the same basic situation and there is no major impact.
如果说今年不推迟高考，高考考题应该会适度降低难度。
If this year does not delay college entrance examination, college entrance examination questions should moderate the difficulty.
所以现在学校要求把基础性内容、基础概念搞懂，这样是万无一失的。
Therefore, the school now requires the basic content, the basic concept of understanding, this is infallible.
如果这个时候学生还不重视基础性知识，不愿意落实基础性内容，那在高考中肯定会被甩下来。
If the students do not pay attention to the basic knowledge, unwilling to implement the basic content, it will certainly be thrown down in the college entrance examination.
。
.
之所以强调基础性内容是因为，这个阶段打好基础的同学在未来面对高考的时候碰到容易的题目可以得分，碰到难题，开学之后也能够跟上老师的步骤，不会出现太大失误。
In the first place, we should pay more attention to the problems we face, and then we can catch up with the teachers when we start school, so there won't be any mistakes.
像一些基础知识、基本概念要能做到背得出、拎得出，比如数学公式等等，可关键是现在很多学生做不到这一点，也是我们最担心的。
Some basic knowledge, basic concepts to be able to learn by heart, such as mathematical formulas, but the key is that many students can not do this now, is our greatest concern.
。
.
Q:学校接下来的复习进度如何安排和保障？。
Q: How will the school review progress be arranged and guaranteed?
A:进度备课组会统一，年级组只是了解。
A: The progress preparation group will be unified. The chronological group only knows it.
现在的作业布置是统一的，之后会进一步细化，分必做题和选做题，必做题要求每个人都完成，选做题使学生自己根据情况判断要不要做，但目前还没有实行，可能等第二轮复习开始。
(2000.6) A. to hear B. to hearing C. to having heard D. to have heard The traditional approach with complex problems is to break down into smaller, more easily managed problems.
。
.
Q:觉得大概要到什么时候能够恢复正常的上课进度和模式呢？。
Q: When do you think we can get back to the normal schedule and pattern?
A:这个预测不了，本来原计划2月17号，现在看3月1号之前是不能开学的。
A: It's impossible to predict. It was originally planned for February 17, but it can't start before March 1.
只能等，要看疫情的情况，如果疫情出现拐点，那离复课的时间就越来越短；疫情没出现拐点，还得等。
Only wait, depending on the situation, if the outbreak of the inflection point, it will be less and less time before the resumption of classes; no inflection point of the epidemic, will have to wait.
当然再往后等，估计高考推晚的可能性很大，现在说往后推迟为时尚早。
Of course, wait a little later, estimated the possibility of the college entrance examination late, now that it is too early to postpone.
。
.
Q:现在日常主要工作是什么，跟学校上课时期有什么区别？。
Q: What's the main job today, what's the difference between school and school?
A:区别是有工作就开始做，经常处理一些突发事件，每天检查学生的作业，布置学生的任务，到网上关注一下学生的反馈，家长群的反馈，每天就做这些工作。
A: The difference is to start work when you have a job, to deal with some emergencies, to check students' homework every day, to assign tasks to students, to pay attention to the feedback from the students, the feedback from the parents groups, and do the work every day.
理科老师还存在回答学生问题，像我们语文老师基本没人问。
Science teachers also have to answer students' questions, such as our language teacher basic no one asked.
但比上班累多了，上班还感觉自己能够掌控得了，现在这种忙感觉是乱忙，乱成一团麻，什么头绪都理不清。
But I'm more tired than I am at work, and I feel I can handle it. Now I feel so busy and confused that I can't make sense of anything.
。
.
Q:目前学校找直播平台遇到的最大困难是什么？。
Q: What is the biggest difficulty in finding a live broadcast platform at present?
A:现在直播平台技术都很成熟，但硬件配备要求很高。
A: Now the live broadcast platform technology is very mature, but the hardware requirements are very high.
比如我们在考量的这个平台，配备一块手写板就要几百块钱。
The platform we're considering, for example, would cost hundreds of dollars to have a tablet.
可目前还是比较倾向于这个平台，不能因为几门课的限制就放弃它，它能够在线监督学生。
For now, however, it's a platform that can't be abandoned just because of a few classes. It monitors students online.
另一方面，平台使用者很多，一个学校只能提供两个平台，一个文科平台，一个理科平台。
On the other hand, there are many users of the platform, with one school providing only two platforms, one liberal arts platform and one science platform.
我们也希望能够提供更多平台给自己班的学生上课，一旦使用人数太多，可能会出现卡顿。
We also hope to be able to provide more platforms for students in their classes, once the use of too many people, there may be Katon.
。
.
Q:学校要寻找的直播平台，是单独给各个班学生上课还是给整个年级使用？。
Q: Is the live broadcast platform that the school is looking for, is it for each class individually or for the whole grade?
A:现在是整个年级，要能够容纳2000多人在线观看，但有老师的单独答疑，可学生没疑问，老师答疑也没用。
A: Now it is the whole grade, can accommodate more than 2000 people online, but there is a teacher's individual questions, but students have no doubt, the teachers answer questions is also useless.
。
.
Q:手写板，学校会统一配置吗？。
Q: Handwritten board, will the school be allocated uniformly?
A:一个手写板八九百块钱，学校配置这些东西得多高的成本，只用一次。
A: Eight or nine hundred dollars for a handwriting. How much does it cost for the school to furnish it, just once
如果配置，这也是资源的严重浪费。
If configured, it would also be a serious waste of resources.
我今天一上午都在弄这个事，下午找低端一点再看可不可以。
I've been working on this all morning, look down in the afternoon and see if I can do it.
。
.
Q:和平台对接需要收费的吗？。
Q: Is there any charge for docking with the platform?
A:不收费，这段时间是免费提供给大家的，都是具有公益性质的，老师做事也是公益性的，这段时间没有人谈钱的事。
A: No charge, this time is free to everyone, are of a public interest, teachers are also public welfare, no one talk about money during this period.
。
.
Q:认为直播上课的优点在哪里？。
Q: What are the advantages of having a live class?
A:目前用直播平台还有一个好处，就是让学生生活慢慢规律起来，就是让他们按课表上课，能够按照学校的安排，把该做的都落实了，至少能够在一定程度上恢复他们的作息。
A: Another advantage of the current live broadcast platform is that it lets students get their lives in a regular way, that is, they can follow the schedule and do everything they should do according to the school schedule, so that they can at least resume their work to some extent.
。
.
Q:对于部分通讯设施不太好的学生怎么办？。
Q: What about some students whose communication facilities are not so good?
A:这个目前没有任何办法，现在上课也是这样，不是每个学生都能来参加的，包括老师在管理上也会有这样的问题，中小学现在看的录播课是政府行为，有政府的强力推动，可以用电视、网络各种方式，保证每个学生能够上课。
A: There is no way to solve this problem at present, not every student can attend the class, not every student can attend the class, including the teachers management problem. Now the primary and secondary schools watch the video classes, which are the government's actions, with the strong impetus of the government, and can ensure that every student can attend the class.
但对于高三生而言，更愿意按照自己进度安排学习，我们班上就有几个学生不愿意跟着目前教学节奏学习，学校也是允许他们能够有自己的空间、用合适的节奏进行复习，这不能由老师完全掌控。
But for senior high school students, more willing to learn according to their own schedule, we have a few students do not want to follow the current pace of teaching, schools are allowed to have their own space, with the appropriate pace of review, which can not be completely controlled by the teacher.
本文经「原本」原创认证，作者经济观察报，访问yuanben.io查询【6C3D3Y2J】获取授权信息。
This article is based on "Original" original certification, the author of the Economic Observer, visited yuanben.io [6C3D3Y2J] for authorization information.
。
.
版权声明：以上内容为《经济观察报》社原创作品，版权归《经济观察报》社所有。
Copyright statement: The above is the original work of the Economic Observer, the copyright of which belongs to the Economic Observer.
未经《经济观察报》社授权，严禁转载或镜像，否则将依法追究相关行为主体的法律责任。
Without the authorization of the Economic Observer, it is strictly forbidden to reproduce or mirror images, otherwise the relevant actors will be investigated for legal responsibility.
版权合作请致电：【010-60910566-1260】。
For copyright cooperation, please call [010-60910566-1260].
。
.
李静经济观察报记者。
Li Jing Economic Observer reporter.
大科创新闻部记者。
Department of Public Information.
长期关注教育、财经领域。
Long-term focus on education, finance.
新闻线索请联系lijing@eeo.com.cn。
For news leads contact lijing @ eeo.com.cn.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
分享。
Share.
新浪微博腾讯微博微信朋友网人人网。
Sina Weibo tweets Tecent micro-blog friends network everyone.
收藏。
Collection.
热新闻。
Hot news.
“租售同权”被疫情打出原形 。
"Same rights to hire and sell" by the outbreak of the original form.
专访桔子酒店创始人吴海：《哎，我只是个做 。
Interview with Wu Hai, founder of Orange Hotel: "Hey, I'm just doing it."
近13亿元捐款用于雷神山火神山医院 解密46 。
Nearly $1.3 billion was donated to decrypt Mount Rushmore Hospital.
武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人员提供免 。
Min Hao Lok in Wuhan City: Exemption from medical staff in 9 hospitals.
前意大利北京使馆参赞Innocenzi教授：新冠 。
Professor Innocenzi, former Counsellor, Embassy of Italy, Beijing: New Crown.
快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府必要时可 。
Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district authorities may use it when necessary.
“新冠“疫情对中国经济的中长期影响 。
Medium- and long-term impact of the "New Crown" epidemic on China's economy.
宁毅：武汉大决战，必须弄清楚基本数据的真 。
Ning Yi: Wuhan Armageddon, must find out the truth of the basic data.
一次“去全球化”压力测试——“新冠”疫情 。
A "De-Globalisation" Stress Test: "New Crown" Epidemic.
快讯 | 王忠林任湖北省委委员、常委和武汉 。
Wang Zhonglin is a member of Hubei Provincial Committee, Standing Committee and Wuhan.
1、高三老师谈疫情下的高考备考：自律   。
Senior three teachers talk about the epidemic situation under the college entrance examination preparation: self-discipline.
2、多家通信供应商难复工 券商预计5G   。
2, a number of communications suppliers difficult to resume work brokerage estimated at 5G.
3、新冠肺炎疫情期间税收优惠政策有哪   。
What are the preferential tax policies during the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic?
4、万事网联筹备申请获通过 第二家合   。
4. The second application was approved by the World Wide Web Consortium.
5、武汉市民郝乐：为9家医院的医护人   。
5, Wuhan city Min Hao Le: 9 hospitals for the medical personnel.
6、东风本田取消1-2月目标考核 110%返   。
6, Dongfeng Honda cancelled the January-February target of 110% return.
7、疫情冲击下的教育类公司：股价波动   。
7. Educational companies under the impact of the epidemic: stock price volatility.
8、 “租售同权”被疫情打出原形   。
The same right to hire and sell was typified by the outbreak.
9、数十万燕郊人如何去北京上班   。
How hundreds of thousands of Yanbian people go to work in Beijing.
10、快讯 | 广州人大授权：市、区政府   。
10. Guangzhou People's Congress mandate: City and district government.
视频推荐。
Video recommendation.
【BOSS说】向新而行：转换·觅机致敬创建者2019创新峰会。
Move to New Ways: Hail the founder of the 2019 Innovation Summit.
《广汽本田安驾必修课》——雨雾天气如何安全行车。
Guanqi Honda Compulsory Course on Driving: How Safe to Drive in Rain and Fog Weather?
【2019年终特别策划|00后，请出道】关于未来三问。
At the end of 2019, please check out the next three questions.
电子刊物。
Electronic publications.
点击进入。
Click to access.
地址：北京理工大学国防科技园2号楼4层。
Address: 4 / F, 2 National Defense Science Park, Beijing Polytechnic University.
邮编：100081 电话：4001560066 传真：86-10-88510872。
Postal Code: 100081 Tel: 4001560066 Fax: 86-10-88510872.
违法和不良信息举报电话：010-60910566 。
Report on illegal and undesirable information: 010-60910566.
举报邮箱：jubao@eeo.com.cn。
E-mail: jubao @ eeo.com.cn
Copyright @ 经济观察网 2001-2018。
Copyright @ Economic Watch 2001-2018.
京ICP备18019893号。
Beijing ICP Preparation 18019893.
京公网安备 11010802028547号。
Beijing Public Security 110802028547.
广播电视节目制作经营许可证 (京)字第12950号。
Radio and television production and operation license (Beijing) 12950.
增值电信业务经营许可证 B2-20196208。
Value Added Telecom Business Licence B2-20196208.
京网文（2019）4644-484号。
Gwen Wen (2019) 4644-484.
版权声明 Copyright。
Copyright Statement Copyright.
联系我们 Contact Us。
Contact us at Contact Us.
关于我们 About Us。
About us About Us.
友情链接 Links。
Links to Links.
经观招聘 EEO Jobs。
Look for EEO Jobs.
订购中心 Subscribe。
Subscribe, ordering centre.
广告刊例 Advertising。
Advertising is an example.
// 2018/4/2 删除“你可能还想看”栏目js。
/ / 2018 / 4 / 2 Delete "You may also want to see" column js.
if(confirm('请登录后再订阅'))。
If (confirm; please login and subscribe to & apos;)).
