现场 | 湖北与武汉红会，物资捐赠卡在了这里？。
Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross Society, where the donation card was made?
张从志。
Zhang Congzhi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
海内外源源不断捐赠武汉，各大医院仍全面告急。
Donation to Wuhan, major hospitals are still in full swing.
被指定接收捐赠物资的主要机构湖北省与武汉市红十字会系统成为众矢之的，他们原本应该为重大突发事件做好准备，却一开始就因专业能力不足遭遇了信任危机。
Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross, the main institutions designated to receive donations, were targeted because they were supposed to be prepared for major emergencies, but initially faced a crisis of confidence because of a lack of professional competence.
本刊记者探访了武汉红十字会位于汉阳的武汉国际博览中心A馆仓库，面对堆满了一个足球场大小的物资，少量的工作人员拿着A4纸和介绍函在办流程，完全没有中国已经发展了多年的现代物流信息系统。
Our correspondent visited Wuhan Red Cross warehouse A Pavilion at Wuhan International Expo Center in Hanyang, China. Faced with a huge pile of materials the size of a football field, a small number of staff are working on A4 paper and presentation letters.
一方面是各大医院亲自在社交媒体上呐喊物资奇缺，但缺口的全局是多少，看不到可靠的统计。
On the one hand, hospitals themselves are crying out for supplies on social media, but the overall gap is so big that no reliable statistics are available.
一方面是全民捐赠的踊跃与障碍重重。
On the one hand, the public donation enthusiasm and obstacles.
一场全球突发卫生事件，必须由红会来作为物资协调方吗？红会出现严重效率问题，难道没有更有效率的方法来替代吗？记者 | 张从志 王珊武汉红十字会仓库现场（蔡小川 摄）家家医院都见底，得亲自呐喊1月30日上午，李锟接受我们的采访时，脸上的N95口罩已经戴了三四天，他每天回去用开水烫或用酒精消毒后第二天再接着戴，本来6到8小时就应该换一个口罩，但医院实在缺口罩，要紧着一线关键岗位的医护人员使用。
A global health emergency must be coordinated by the ICRC? Is there a serious efficiency problem for the Red Cross? No more efficient way to replace it? & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
临床的医护已经开始用家用的鞋套代替医用鞋套，我们在武汉市第七医院发热门诊甚至看到有个子矮的护士用多余出来的防护服裤腿包住了鞋子。
Clinical care has begun to replace medical shoelaces with household shoelaces, and we even saw short nurses wrap their shoes in extra protective clothing at the Wuhan Seventh Hospital's Heat Clinic.
“物资奇缺无比，口罩前两天接近零库存，最后只剩50个，紧急从中南医院调了一批过来，因为必须保证临床一线的医护人员使用。
"There is a huge shortage of supplies, the mask two days before close to zero inventory, the last 50, emergency from the South Central Hospital to transfer a batch, because the need to ensure clinical front-line health care.
”李锟忧心忡忡，他是武汉大学中南医院医务处副处长，1月22日接到医院通知带领医疗队对口支援武汉市第七医院（简称“七院”），后者是武汉市第一批定点医院，门诊在两天内分批开放，将近200张床位全部住满。
Dr. Lee, a deputy director of the medical service at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, received a notification from the hospital on January 22 to lead his medical team to support the Wuhan Seventh Hospital, the first batch of hospitals in Wuhan, which opened in batches over a two-day period and filled nearly 200 beds.
第七医院现在最担心的问题就是物资，一位工作人员告诉我们，在这几天里，第七医院已经多次调整了物资使用的标准，从刚开始保障重点科室，调整为每天只能提供四十套防护物资，现在则严格控制需求，物资具体到当班的医护个人，每天领取一次，领取时必须要签名。
The seventh hospital is now most worried about supplies, and a staff member told us that in the past few days, the seventh hospital has adjusted the standards of material use several times, from just starting to guarantee priority sections to only 40 sets of protective materials per day, and is now strictly controlling the need for supplies to individual medical staff on duty, which must be signed every day.
“为什么每家医院都这么缺？”从1月22日开始，一所大学的校友会已经连续捐赠了三家医院，每家都告诉他们物资已经保障不了。
"Why is every hospital so short?" Since Jan. 22, the alumni association of a university has donated three hospitals, each telling them that supplies are no longer secure.
这家校友会的工作人员告诉本刊，本来临时启动捐赠的目的是为了援助在湖北的校友，为他们提供需求，看着医院情况紧缺，就把资源临时调动过来。
The alumni association staff told the magazine that the purpose of the temporary start-up donation was to help alumni in Hubei, to provide for their needs, and to look at the acute shortage of hospitals, the temporary redeployment of resources.
“最早对接的一家说只有一天储备，我们核实了信息后对接了一些资源过去，后面两家说自己是二级医院，说连手里的防护设备已经见底。
"One of the first docking companies said it had only one day to store it. We checked the information and docked some resources. The last two said they were level II hospitals and said they had the protective equipment in their hands.
我们现在接到求助，只能处理一个，算一个。
We're getting help right now. We can handle one, count one.
医院四处求助，管理部门不应该发挥作用吗？”在一家二级医院的门诊和住院楼，我们看到每天医护人员换下的防护服如果堆起来都能成为一座小山。
Hospitals are everywhere asking for help. Shouldn't management help? "In the outpatient and inpatient buildings of a level-II hospital, we see that the protective clothing that paramedics change every day can become a hill if it is piled up.
医院的一位工作人员告诉我们，防护物资消耗很快，为了每天只使用一套防护服，不少医务人员穿着尿不湿进入隔离区域，一天在里面待着不出来，“防护服非常闷，出来时很多人都是头晕目眩的。
A hospital worker told us that protective equipment was consumed quickly and that in order to use only one suit a day, many medical staff went into the isolation area in urine and could not come out for a day. "The suits were very stuffy and many people came out dizzy.
”这家医院的医生告诉我们，医院一直在努力向区政府申请物资，政府隔了四五天才送来一批，很快见底，第二批的申请现在还没有。
Doctors at the hospital told us that the hospital had been trying to apply to the district government for supplies, but it took the government four or five days to deliver the supplies.
武汉一家医院的管理者告诉本刊，物资缺乏有两个原因，第一，一般来讲，市政府和省政府层面会有一批物资储备，但因为考虑到雷神山、火神山等新定点医院的保障，一开始政府并没有将手里的物资下发，医院库存平常就不会太多，只能四处求助；第二，武汉交通封锁，募集物资从外地到医院起码需要四五天的时间，更不要说海外捐赠的物品，“如果政府层面能将储备物资先下发给医院，再以政府名义募集物资，这本是最好的途径，现在恰恰都反过来了。
First, the city and provincial governments generally have a stock of supplies, but considering the guarantee of new designated hospitals such as Raytheon Hill and Mount Fukuyama, the government initially did not hand over much of its stock and had to look around for help.
面对病人就是打仗，医院不自救的话，我们这几天应该怎么办？”另一家医院的工作人员从医院物资如何储备上为我们进一步解答了问题。
What are we supposed to do these daysAnother hospital worker asked us more questions about how hospital supplies were being stocked.
这家医院的感染科在全国排名前列。
The infection department in this hospital ranks high in the country.
医院的一名副主任医师告诉我们，即使他们科室，也不会大量储备N95以及防护服。
A deputy chief physician at the hospital told us that, even in their department, N95 and protective clothing would not be stored in large quantities.
尤其是防护服，“防护服没有单列开支，我们使用一套科室需要支付一套的钱，计入科室的成本，平常消耗不大，医院也不会特别去储备。
In particular, protective clothing, "protective clothing is not a separate expenditure, we use a unit to pay a set of money, into the cost of the section, usually not a major consumption, hospitals will not be special reserve.
”他说，在医院，一般的普通科室很少会使用到N95口罩和防护服。
In hospitals, the average general office rarely uses N95 masks and protective clothing, he said.
这次过来支援武汉，他们来了六七个人，医院将所有的物资库存都给他们带过来使用，“我们才来四五天，已经见底。
This time came to support Wuhan, they came to six or seven people, the hospital to bring all the stock of supplies to them to use, "we have only come four or five days, has seen the bottom.
”指定红会来接收物资，是必须的吗？1月30日，一则“各种物资都有，医院持介绍信到武汉红十字会仓库自行领取”的消息在网上流传。
All kinds of materials are available, and the hospital is circulating online with a letter of introduction to the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse to collect them on its own.
网上流传的介绍信当天晚上九点左右，本刊记者赶到了网传的武汉红十字会仓库，仓库位于汉阳的武汉国际博览中心A馆。
About 9: 00 pm on the Internet, our reporter rushed to the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse, which is located in Hanyang Wuhan International Expo Center A Pavilion.
工作人员告诉我们，作为武汉红十字会的临时仓库，这里已经运行了好几天，24小时昼夜不停，全国各地的个人和企业乃至海外的捐赠物资源源不断到来，从这里发往武汉市40多家医疗机构。
Wuhan Red Cross staff told us that as a temporary warehouse, here has been operating for several days, 24 hours a day, all over the country, individuals and enterprises and overseas donations continue to arrive, from here to Wuhan more than 40 medical institutions.
武汉红十字会仓库现场（蔡小川 摄）1月26日，民政部发文，指定湖北省红十字会、湖北省慈善总会、湖北省青少年发展基金会、武汉市慈善总会、武汉市红十字会作为武汉疫情捐赠物资的接收单位，除定向捐赠外，原则上服从湖北省、武汉市等地肺炎防控指挥部的统一调配。
Wuhan Red Cross Warehouse Site (Cai Xiaochuan) January 26, the Ministry of Civil Affairs sent a letter designating the Hubei Red Cross Society, Hubei Provincial Charity Association, Hubei Provincial Youth Development Foundation, Wuhan City Charitable General Association and Wuhan City Red Cross Society as recipients of Wuhan epidemic donation.
官方解释，这样做的理由是怕情况失控，被一些人钻了空子。
Officials say the reason for doing so is fear that the situation could spin out of control and be exploited by some.
这在中国慈善联合会副秘书长刘佑平看来，是属于特殊时期、特殊地区采取的一种非常规做法，集中的目的本来是为了高效。
According to Liu Youping, deputy secretary-general of the China Charity Federation, this is a special period, a special region to adopt an unconventional approach, the purpose of the focus was originally to be efficient.
然而，在具体的操作过程中，既有的措施并没有解决湖北物资匮乏的问题。
However, in the specific operation process, the existing measures did not solve the problem of lack of materials in Hubei.
北京师范大学公益慈善与非营利法治研究中心主任马剑银告诉本刊，理论上，由红十字牵头的确可以实现更好的捐赠效率，而个人或企业的点对点捐赠是一种效率更低的捐赠方式。
Ma Jiansilver, director of the pro bono charity and non-profit rule of law research centre at Beijing Normal University, told the magazine that, in theory, a Red Cross-led approach could indeed lead to better donation efficiency, while point-to-point giving by individuals or businesses is a less efficient way to donate.
然而这一次，很多医院选择自己出来公开求助（募捐），捐赠者也要求直接对接医院——他们宁愿绕开红十字会等官方捐赠平台。
This time, however, many hospitals have chosen to go out and ask for help openly, and donors have asked to be docked directly to hospitals - preferring to bypass official donation platforms like the Red Cross.
显然，无论是捐赠者还是医院，都对物资的协调和调配效率并不满意。
It is clear that neither donors nor hospitals are satisfied with the efficiency of the coordination and deployment of materials.
武汉市红十字会常务副会长陈耘在接受采访时透露人手非常紧张，他说武汉市红会只有十个人，湖北省红会有二十多个人。
In an interview with Wuhan Red Cross Society Standing Vice President Chen Zhu revealed that the staff is very tight, he said Wuhan City Red Cross Society only 10 people, Hubei Red Cross will have more than 20 people.
这些人全部取消年假，24小时在岗轮流加班，也无法照顾过来。
All of them cancel their annual leave, work on 24-hour shifts and are unable to attend to them.
即使武汉统计局调了三十个人，专门负责物资清点、登记，另外招募了近50位志愿者，人手依然有限。
Even though Wuhan Bureau of Statistics dispatched 30 people to take charge of the material inventory and registration, and recruited nearly 50 volunteers, the staff is still limited.
在这样的前提下，物资信息的混乱也显露了出来。
In such a premise, the confusion of material information also revealed.
1月31日，武汉红十字会官方微博发布公示信息，在1月22日-28日接收的社会捐赠物资分配中，36000个N95口罩，流向“武汉仁爱医院1.6万、武汉天佑医院1.6万”,他们随后将信息更改为“武汉仁爱医院1.8万个、武汉天佑医院1.8万个”，而身处抗疫一线的武汉协和医院只获得了3000个医用外科口罩，甚至最初并未在官方公布的物资分配名单之中。
On January 31, the official Weibo of Wuhan Red Cross Society announced that 36,000 of the N95 masks had been distributed to Wuhan Benevolence Hospital and Wuhan Tianyou Hospital from January 22 to 28, and that they had changed their messages to "18,000 Wuhan humane love hospitals and 18,000 Wuhan Tianyou hospitals.
现场探访红会的物资仓库我们看到的红十字会的仓库占地将近两个足球场大小，仓库分成了两边，一边堆满了各种物资箱，口罩、手套、防护服等防护服，还有消毒液、洁厕液，莲花清瘟胶囊等物品，不少箱子上写着经红十字会转交某一家医院，以及捐赠者的信息。
On-Site Visit to ICRC Stores The Red Cross warehouse that we saw was the size of a football field, divided into two sides and piled on either side with various types of protective clothing such as masks, gloves, protective clothing, disinfectant, toilet fluid, lotus rinderpest capsules, and many boxes bearing information that had been transferred from the Red Cross to a hospital, as well as donors.
现场搬运物资的人手看起来并不多，有两三辆邮政的货车正在装卸货物。
Not many people seemed to be on the scene carrying supplies, and two or three postal vans were loading and unloading cargo.
武汉红十字会仓库现场（蔡小川 摄）就在我们刚到武汉红十字会的仓库时，一辆救护车也直接停到了大门口，车上下来一位穿着白大褂的医生，不顾门卫的拦阻，小跑着进了仓库，他揣着医院开的介绍信赶到了仓库一角的现场办公室。
Just as we arrived at the Wuhan Red Cross warehouse, an ambulance stopped directly at the gate. A doctor in a white coat, despite the barrier, trotted into the warehouse and arrived at the field office in a corner with a hospital letter of introduction.
“我们是听到这有东西过来的，我们医院现在很多人都在‘裸奔’了，酒精只有两瓶了……”他一脸焦急，在办公室开始抱怨，“我们有时候募捐来的东西，找别人从国外捐进来，却都到不了我们手上，听说都被拦截到你们这里了。
"We've heard that there's something coming over here, and a lot of people in our hospital are running 'naked' and the alcohol is only two bottles..." He complained in his office, "We sometimes collect donations and get donations from abroad, but we don't get them, and we hear they're stopped here.
”得到否定的回答后又补充道：“上海的同学就给我寄了10箱，已经寄了许多天，我现在都没收到。
"After receiving a negative answer, he added:" My classmates in Shanghai sent me 10 cases, which I haven't received for many days.
”工作人员告诉我们，“原则上，医院是不直接接受捐赠，要通过红十字会定向捐赠，但自己个人直接找医院捐赠的，因为没有走红十字会的渠道，物资也不会到我们这来，所以也不存在截留问题。
"In principle, hospitals don't accept donations directly, but they donate directly to hospitals through the Red Cross," the staff told us. "There is no question of withholding because there is no Red Cross channel and supplies do not come to us.
”物资现场也能看到一些问题，比如不少捐赠不符合标准。
Problems can also be observed at the material site, such as a number of substandard donations.
物资不符合使用标准确实是很多医院都遇到过的情况。
It is true that many hospitals have experienced non-conformities in the use of materials.
48岁的徐钢是武钢总院装备部部长，他告诉我们，在疫情早期，他们就有所警觉，提前采购了一批防护物资，但现在却也是捉襟见肘。
Xu Gang, a 48-year-old equipment minister at the WISCO headquarters, told us that they had been vigilant in the early days of the outbreak and had purchased a batch of protective materials in advance, but they were also struggling.
这些天，徐钢的手机一直响个不停，他说现在每天可以收到几百个电话，上千条微信，很多都是捐赠者发来的。
Xu, whose cell phone has been ringing all these days, says he now receives hundreds of calls and thousands of micro-letters a day, many from donors.
“我现在根本不去看这些信息，我是想，我作为一个专业的人都找不到渠道，其他捐赠者虽然有爱心，但来的货不一定符合标准。
"I'm not going to look at this information at all. I mean, as a professional, I can't find a source. Other donors, although caring, are not always up to standard.
”大年初一那天，徐钢找了几个志愿者去仙桃拉物资，从早上守到晚上十点多钟终于把货弄到手。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, Xu Gang found some volunteers to pull supplies to the nectarine and finally got the goods by 10 o'clock in the morning.
“去的时候告诉我们说是外科口罩，但打开一看，全是美容口罩。
"When we went, we were told it was a surgical mask, but when we opened it, it was all cosmetic.
现在只能放在库里，也用不着。
Now it's in the warehouse, not in it.
”很多捐赠试图绕过红会平台尽管如此，对于红会的不信任无疑成为此次捐赠表现出来的一个重要问题。
Many donations are trying to circumvent the Red Cross platform, but distrust of the Red Cross is undoubtedly an important issue in the donation.
那么，信任危机下的红十字会是否还能够承担此次物资统一协调分配任务的巨大体量？一个民间志愿组织的负责人告诉我们，有很多找过来捐赠的人都是因为对红十字会不太信任，“觉得他们不透明”，宁愿自己承担税费和快递费走普通快递渠道；有的明星工作室和粉丝后援会也要求直接对接医院。
The head of a private voluntary organization told us that many of those looking for donations were distrustful of the Red Cross, "don't think they're transparent," preferring to pay their own taxes and courier fees for regular courier services. Some star studios and fan aid groups have asked to be docked directly to hospitals.
正因为这种怀疑，一些民间团体直接放弃了官方渠道，想方设法给医院送物资进去。
As a result of this suspicion, some civil society groups have abandoned official channels and tried to bring supplies to hospitals.
为了规避这样的渠道，不少捐赠平台绕过红十字会自行运行。
To circumvent such channels, many donor platforms bypass the Red Cross and operate on their own.
从物资采购、物流渠道、信息登记、对接医院都是由专人负责，这样能够保证物资到达武汉之后迅速分配出去。
From material procurement, logistics channels, information registration, docking hospitals are all under the responsibility of special persons, so that supplies can be quickly distributed after arrival in Wuhan.
一家民间捐赠平台在开始时就遇到了很尴尬的问题。
A private giving platform had an awkward start.
有一个捐赠者在国外，手上有一批物资，但再三强调不能走红十字会的渠道，希望平台能够帮助他想办法。
One donor, who was abroad and had a stock of material on hand, repeatedly stressed that the Red Cross could not be reached and hoped that the platform would help him find a way out.
这不是这家平台第一次遇到这样的问题。
This is not the first time the platform has encountered such problems.
平台的工作人员冯明告诉本刊，海外物资如果不经过红十字会的渠道，除了要支付不菲的运费外，还要有一大笔税费。
Feng Ming, a staff member of the platform, told the magazine that foreign goods not channelled through the Red Cross, in addition to paying heavy freight charges, but also a large amount of taxes.
他提到，有一个日本的爱心人士，费劲购买了3000多个口罩，使用ems运回国内，需要支付1000多元的运费。
He noted that a caring Japanese man had struggled to buy more than 3,000 face masks and had to pay more than 1,000 yuan for them to be shipped back home.
“如果寄送的是口罩，光关税就占6%左右，防护服则到8%。
"If it's a mask, the tariff is about 6 percent, and protective clothing is 8 percent.
而红十字会的渠道，运费和税费各种费用都可以减免。
Red Cross channels, freight and taxes are all deductible.
”除此之外，红十字会需要办理各种证明，需要捐赠者提供各种信息，也增加了捐赠渠道的复杂。
In addition, the Red Cross has had to go through a variety of paperwork, requiring a variety of donor information and complicating donor channels.
一名志愿者也提到了个人直接对接医院存在的问题，即医院因为着急，常常会直接丢给捐赠者一个公告照片，这样到来的问题是一方面，捐赠方无法掌握医院实时捐赠信息，导致有的医院重复捐赠，有的医院则可能获得不到物资。
One volunteer also referred to the problem of individuals docking directly to hospitals, where, because of anxiety, hospitals often threw a picture of announcements directly to donors. The problem was that, on the one hand, donors did not have real-time information on hospital donations, leading to duplication of donations and possible non-availability of supplies.
为了解决问题，每对接一家医院，他们就将该院一名医生拉进群，进行物资信息的及时匹配，确保物资能够到达最需要的人手里。
To solve the problem, each time they docked a hospital, they pulled a doctor from the hospital into the group to match material information in time to ensure that supplies reached those most in need.
“这些事情做起来也很琐碎，如果从政府层面进行统计，然后公开信息，其实更容易操作。
"These things are trivial, too, and it's actually easier to get things done by measuring them at the government level and then making them public."
”民间物资通道却在收缩不过，这两天物流渠道入口却在不断收缩。
The civilian goods pipeline is shrinking, but the two-day logistics access is contracting.
“1月29日顺丰告诉我们，从当天起，顺丰原本针对武汉开通的绿色渠道都只能和红十字会对接，不再接收个人业务，即直接发往医院的渠道关闭。
"On January 29, Shunfeng told us that from the same day, Shunfeng for Wuhan opened the green channel can only be docked with the Red Cross, no longer accept personal business, that is, directly to the hospital channels closed.
”冯明提到一个捐赠案例，说一个捐助者在第二天联系顺丰，顺丰给予的回复是，即使是自付邮费捐赠物资，也需要去当地红十字会报备，开了证明，才能够再去联系顺丰，寄到红十字会指定的地点。
Mr. Feng referred to a case of donation, saying a donor contacted Shunfeng the next day and Shunfeng responded that even paying for postage donations would need to be reported by the local Red Cross and certified before being able to contact Shunfeng again and send it to a location designated by the Red Cross.
“这样捐赠者还得再跑一次红十字会。
"So the donor has to go to the Red Cross once more.
”即使物资到达仓库，调度和匹配的效率也很难得到保证。
Even when supplies arrive at the warehouse, the efficiency of scheduling and matching is difficult to ensure.
在仓库里，多方沟通下，现场工作人员核实了来求援医生的身份，最终允许他领取物资。
In the warehouse, as a result of multiple communications, the field staff verified the identity of the doctor who had come to ask for help and eventually allowed him to receive the supplies.
工作人员告诉我们，这一次是破例了，本来绝对不能开这个口子，不然就全乱套了，“但他们打的发改委，他们确确实实没有了。
The staff told us that this time it was an exception, it would never have been possible to open the gap, otherwise it would have been a complete mess. "But they hit the NDRC, they really did not.
都是要命的事情，能尽量的满足都满足，但实在是没办法。
It is a deadly thing, to be able to satisfy as much as possible, but there is no way.
”不过寻找物资却费了不少功夫。
"But it took a lot of work to find the supplies.
虽然仓库系统有一个清单，并没有详细列出物资的具体位置，医生和工作人员围着仓库一角转了几圈才找到酒精，寻找口罩的情况与酒精类似。
Although the warehouse system had a list that did not detail the exact location of the material, doctors and staff had to walk around the corner of the warehouse to find alcohol, which was similar to alcohol.
武汉红十字会仓库现场（蔡小川 摄）我们在武汉红十字会物资仓库了解到，现场成立了一个专门的指挥小组，成员除了牵头的红十字会工作人员，还有来自市统计局、卫健委等职能部门的人员。
Wuhan Red Cross warehouse site (Cai Xiaochuan) We learned from the Wuhan Red Cross material warehouse that a special command team was set up, composed of not only the leading Red Cross staff, but also functional personnel from the municipal statistics bureau and the health care committee.
不过关于具体的分工细则，双方说法却不统一。
However, regarding the specific division of labour rules, the two sides do not agree.
武汉市红十字会在接受采访时表示，红十字会只负责接收，没有权力决定发放和匹配，这一任务由卫健委等部门决定；而一名卫健委的相关负责人在接受本刊电话采访时却表示，市卫健委和其他职能部门是协助红十字会工作。
Wuhan Red Cross Society said in an interview that the Red Cross is only responsible for reception, not the authority to decide on distribution and matching, a task decided by the Health Commission and other departments, while a relevant Health Commissioner said in a telephone interview with the magazine that the municipal health committee and other functional departments are assisting the Red Cross.
两种矛盾说法之下，物资能否及时送达，成为疑问。
Under the two contradictory statements, whether the goods can be delivered in time, has become a doubt.
“下面的医院都有一个库存表在我们这里，我们是根据库存表来发放。
"We have a list of stock in each of the hospitals below, and we issue it according to our inventory.
我们也知道很多医院在网上喊，但你看这，是不是他们急需的？”现场的一位负责人示意我们看身边一堆堆齐人高的箱子，他说，很多物资并不符合医用标准，所有暂时没有拉走，后面可以发放给其他非关键岗位的人使用。
We also know a lot of hospitals are shouting online, but look at this, are they in urgent need of it? A person in charge of the scene motioned to us to look at the piles of boxes around us, saying that many of the items did not meet medical standards and that all had not been removed for later distribution to other non-critical positions.
他告诉我们，这也是政府选择统一由红十字会管理的原因，“个人捐赠到医院，产品是不是合格，是不是过期了，万一出现什么事情怎么搞？我们这个来了之后，有专门的机构，比如市场监督管理局、卫健委来检验，保证质量。
This, he told us, is why the government has chosen to unify the Red Cross, "whether the individual donates to the hospital, whether the product is qualified or not, and what happens if something should happen.
”红会的主要功能，应该是能够应对重大突发事件的北京师范大学公益慈善与非营利法治研究中心主任马剑银并不认同红会人手紧张，精力有限的说法，他告诉我们，红十字会的主要功能本就是应对重大突发事件，比如战争、自然灾害、重大公共卫生事件等，所以在平时就应该注意能力建设，使自身具备相应的动员和协调能力，在汶川大地震等灾难和突发事件中，中国红十字会体系的确发挥了这样的作用，但这一疫情，似乎又把问题暴露出来。
Ma Jianyin, director of the pro bono charity and non-profit rule of law research center at Beijing Normal University, said the Red Cross's primary function was to cope with major emergencies, such as wars, natural disasters and major public health events.
“红十字会不应该只依靠自身的工作人员，而是需要动员，也应该能够动员大量的志愿者（而且这些志愿者在平时就应该有所培训），协调省内红十字会系统的资源，与省外红十字系统包括中国红总会沟通等。
"The Red Cross should not only rely on its own staff, but should also be able to mobilize a large number of volunteers (who should be trained in normal times), coordinate the resources of the provincial Red Cross system and communicate with the Red Cross system outside the province, including the Red Cross Society of China.
”“对需求方和供应方之间的协调，平台的建设，说句实话，他们应该是能够具备这样的能力来做的。
"Coordination between the demand side and the supply side, the building of platforms, to be honest, should be able to do that."
实际上目前很多民间组织也都在做，他们完全可以互相开放，一起协作。
In fact, a lot of civil society organizations are doing, they can be completely open to each other and work together.
”马剑银告诉本刊，在这样的特殊时期，其实不应该按照思维惯性将捐赠物资的接收任务限定于这五家机构，可以考虑特事特办，整合进社会力量，开放民间通道。
Ma told the magazine that, at such a special time, the task of receiving donated goods should not be limited to the five institutions according to intellectual inertia.
(感谢片片对本文采访的帮助)作者档案张从志想吃碗热干面26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@Czz_lifeweek王珊喜欢阳光，喜欢晒太阳，最近喜欢易建联。
) Author Zhang Congzhi wants to eat a bowl of hot, dry noodles 26 minutes ago. Lifestyle Weekend Personal Weibo: @ Czzz _ lifeek Wang Shan likes sunshine, likes sunshine and recently likes Yi Jianlian.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@小笨走走停请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
WUHAN NEW Pneumonia series of reports The copyright of this article belongs to "Three Lives Weekly". Welcome to your friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
张从志。
Zhang Congzhi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
现场 | 湖北与武汉红会，物资捐赠卡在了这里？。
Hubei and Wuhan Red Cross Society, where the donation card was made?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "现场 | 湖北与武汉红会，物资捐赠卡在了这里？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "一场全球突发卫生事件，必须由红会来作为物资协调方吗？红会出现严重效率问题，难道没有更有效率的方法来替代吗？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Must the Red Cross be the material coordinator for a global health emergency?
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
