父亲被隔离6天后，17岁脑瘫少年的死亡。
Six days after his father was isolated, the 17-year-old died of cerebral palsy.
董冀宁 陈璐。
Dong Jining Chen Lu.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
意识到17岁脑瘫少年鄢成被单独留在家中的时候，很多人试图挽救这条生命，但这些帮助最终没有抵达最后一公里。
Realizing that a 17-year-old boy with cerebral palsy Yan Cheng was left alone at home, many tried to save the life, but the help ultimately failed to reach the last mile.
这个由脑瘫、自闭症和单亲父亲组成的特殊家庭的日常困境，在遇到突发疫情的乡村被放大了。
The daily plight of this special family of cerebral palsy, autism and single fathers is magnified in villages experiencing outbreaks.
记者 | 董冀宁 陈璐被留下的孩子走了“孩子走了。
Ru Dong Jining, the left child, has gone. The child has gone.
”1月29日下午两点半，朱文沁收到鄢小文发来的这条微信时有些诧异，起初并没细想其中的含义。
"At 2: 30 p.m. on January 29, Zhu Wenqin was surprised to receive this micro-letter from Yan Xiaowen, and did not at first dwell on its meaning.
她以为，鄢小文说的还是两个小时以前，鄢成被120从家里接到了镇上的隔离酒店。
She thought Yan Xiao Wen was talking about two hours ago when Yan Cheng was taken from her home to the isolated hotel in the town.
当时鄢小文给她打了电话，她印象很深，电话那头的鄢小文边咳嗽边说自己“特别高兴”。
Yan Xiao Wen calls her and is impressed. Yanwan says she is "very happy" when she coughs across the line.
朱文沁是武汉市一家特殊群体家长互助组织“蜗牛家园”的负责人，同时也是一位心智障碍孩子的母亲。
Zhu Wenqin is the head of "snail's home", a special group of parents' mutual help organization in Wuhan, and also the mother of a mentally handicapped child.
自从1月23日听说鄢小文因为疑似新冠肺炎被带到乡卫生院单独隔离，同时带走了小儿子，患有重度脑瘫的鄢家大儿子鄢成独自在家，她就一直担忧，只能通过电话对村里安排照顾鄢成的人提出很多具体的要求。
Since hearing on January 23 that Yan Xiaowen had been taken to the township clinic alone with her youngest son, Yansheng, the eldest son of a severe cerebral palsy, Yansheng, who had been told on January 23 that Yan Xiao-wen was being taken to the township hospital alone with her youngest son.
比如她总是希望村医把鄢成的正脸拍给她，好确认孩子的精神状态怎么样，她还一直希望照顾鄢成的村民能持续记录鄢成的体温以及吃饭和排便的次数，尽管有一些村民连微信都不会用。
For example, she always wanted the village doctor to pat Yan Cheng's face on her to confirm her child's mental health. She also wanted Yan Cheng's villagers to keep track of Yan Cheng's body temperature and frequency of eating and bowel movements, even though some villagers could not even use them.
鄢小文今年49岁，之前在武汉市一所学校的厨房打工，他带着两个儿子，大儿子鄢成17岁，患有重度脑瘫，生活不能自理，小儿子鄢小伟11岁，患有自闭症。
Yan Xiaowen, 49, works in the kitchen of a Wuhan school. He and his two sons, Yansheng 17, suffer from severe cerebral palsy and are unable to look after themselves.
鄢家一位亲戚告诉本刊，两个孩子的母亲因为受不了小儿子再次被查出“不正常”，在小儿子1岁多时自杀了，平时一直是鄢小文一个人把两个孩子拉扯大。
A Yan family relative told the magazine that Yan Xiaowen raised her two children by herself when her youngest son was more than a year old after she was found "abnormal" again.
鄢成（轮椅内）与弟弟小伟朱文沁告诉本刊，她是在一次自闭症康复活动上认识了鄢小文，之后在2016年，朱文沁创办了“蜗牛家园”，鄢小文带着孩子参与进来，两家的人越发熟识了起来。
Yan Cheng (in a wheelchair) and younger brother Zhu Wenqin told the magazine that she met Yan Xiaowen at an autistic rehabilitation event. Later, in 2016, Yan Wen-qin founded the "Snail Home," a family that Yan Xiaowen became more familiar with with her children.
1月17日，朱文沁最后一次见到鄢成，当时鄢小文带着两个儿子从武汉汉口乘坐客车，准备回老家黄冈市红安县鄢家村过年。
On January 17, when Yan Yan saw Yan Cheng for the last time, Yan Xiao-wen took a bus from Hankou, Wuhan, with his two sons, to celebrate the New Year in the Visayas, home of Hongan County, Huanggang City.
她记得，鄢成走时还笑得很开心，鄢小文告诉她“两个孩子最近都很健康。
She remembers Yan Cheng walking with a smile, Yan Xiaowen telling her, "Both kids are healthy these days.
”但1月20日，回到老家的鄢小文突然发起了低烧，那时，武汉的疫情尚未爆发，他以为是感冒，自己到村卫生室输液。
But Yan Xiaowen, returning to his hometown on January 20, suddenly had a low fever when Wuhan, thinking it was a cold, went to the village clinic to infusion.
又过了三天，武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情全面爆发，武汉发布“封城令”，湖北各地政府对辖区内的排查工作也相继展开。
Three days later, Wuhan new coronavirus pneumonia outbreak, Wuhan issued a "closure order," Hubei governments around the area of the clearance has also started.
朱文沁在23日11点接到了鄢小文的电话，“他告诉我，自己被镇卫生院诊断为疑似病例，并被卫生院隔离，第二天还要转往杏花乡卫生院，那里是红安县设置的集中收治点。
"He told me that he had been diagnosed as a suspected case by the Town Health Bureau and was quarantined by the clinic. He also had to be transferred the next day to the Xianghua Heung Heung Hospital, a centralized treatment facility in Hong'an County.
”朱文沁说，因为不知道疫情的严重程度，鄢小文那时候情绪也很低落，既担心自己，“如果我人不在了，两个孩子怎么办？”除了这种对于未知病毒的恐慌，还有一种恐慌更为具体——疾控人员一同带走了他患自闭症的小儿子，将患脑瘫的大儿子鄢成单独留在了家中。
"Not knowing the severity of the outbreak, Yan Xiaowen was also in low spirits, worried," What if I'm gone, two kids? "In addition to the panic about the unknown virus, there was a more specific fear that disease controllers had taken his autistic little son, Yancheng, to his home alone.
朱文沁吓了一跳，鄢成也在她家住过，她知道鄢成吃喝拉撒都离不开人。
Yan Cheng Yan lives in her home. She knows Yan Cheng can't eat and drink without people.
鄢小文称，“村主任陈敬友告诉我，因为他（鄢成）有接触风险，必须在家就地隔离。
"Village director Chen Jingyou told me that he was at risk of contact and needed to be isolated locally at home," Yan said.
”事实上，卫生院的条件确实也不好，鄢小文与另一名疑似新冠肺炎患者住在同一间病房，当时还没有出现感染症状的小儿子也和他们睡在一个屋。
Indeed, conditions at the clinic were poor, and Yan Xiaowen, who shared a room with another suspected New Crown Pneumonia patient, also shared a room with her younger son, who did not show symptoms of infection.
被隔离的鄢小文与小儿子此时，伴随着武汉周边乃至整个湖北省范围内陆续封路、封村，朱文沁等几位家长即使想把鄢成接出来也不可能。
Yan Xiao Wen and her little son, isolated by now, are blocking roads and villages around Wuhan and throughout Hubei province, making it impossible for a few parents, including Yan Cheng, to link them up.
1月28日，鄢小文在通过微博发出的一封求助信中写道：“由于村里人担心鄢成有被感染的可能性，从23日到27日，村里领导多次协调，仍无法找到能为鄢成解决换洗护理和一日三餐问题的照料人员。
"Fearing the possibility of Yansheng becoming infected, Yan Xiaowen wrote on January 28 in a plea letter sent by Twitter." Through numerous co-ordinations between 23 and 27, village leaders were unable to find caregivers capable of handling Yan Cheng's laundry and meals.
”鄢小文和志愿者妈妈们能做的，只能是每天多打几个电话。
All Yan Xiaowen and her volunteer mothers can do is make only a few more calls a day.
在发出公开信之后的1月28日，从上午10点到下午5点，鄢小文给村支书打了8个电话，最短的通话31秒，最长的沟通7分23秒。
On January 28, after the letter was sent, Yan Xiao Wen made eight calls to the village branch from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., the shortest call of 31 seconds and the longest communication of 7 minutes and 23 seconds.
但他们并不知道究竟有哪些人真正会去照顾鄢成，而每个人碎片化的反馈则让他们谁都搞不清鄢成的状况到底怎样了。
But they don't know who really cares for Yan Cheng, and everyone's fragmented feedback makes it impossible for any of them to know what Yancheng is like.
所以当29号中午朱文沁听说鄢成被转移到集中安置点的时候，朱文沁感觉自己心里也像一块大石头落了地——担心了6天的鄢成独自在家没人照顾的问题看起来已经解决了。
So when Zhu Wenqin heard at noon on the 29th that Yan Cheng had been transferred to a centralized resettlement site, he felt like a big rock falling to the ground.
相关图片经当地残联汇总到中国精神残疾人及亲友协会（下文简称中精协）一位负责人那里，再发到了救助鄢成微信群里的时候，她看到现场是正规的120救护车，抬担架的工作人员穿着白大褂、带着淡蓝色的防护口罩，把行动不能自理的鄢成抬到车上。
FIMITIC brought together a leading member of the China Association of Mentally Handicapped Persons and Relatives (CPAPD) and sent it to Yansheng micro-mail group. She saw a regular 120-vehicle ambulance with a stretcher crew in white coats and pale blue face masks, carrying Yancheng into the vehicle, unable to look after himself.
11时30分许，华河卫生院派车将鄢成接往集中监测点，12时30分许，医护人员发现鄢成呼吸停止、瞳孔放大、无脉搏和心跳，现场判定鄢成死亡。
At about 11.30 a.m., Yan Cheng was directed by a vehicle from the Huahe Hospital to the Central Monitoring Station. At about 12.30 p.m., paramedics observed Yan Cheng stop breathing, miosis, lack of pulse and heartbeat. Yan Cheng was judged dead at the scene.
救助群里有全国各地200多位家长，大家都很兴奋，直到朱文沁收到鄢小文那条微信“孩子走了”。
There were more than 200 parents from all over the country and everyone was excited until Bentham received a little letter from Yan Xiaowen, "The child is gone."
她用了一分钟去思考这句话到底是什么意思，拨通了鄢小文的电话，对面是哭腔，“孩子上天堂了。
She thought for a minute about what the phrase meant, and Yan Xiao Wen called, crying across the street. "The child is in heaven.
”远方的救援与最后一公里“你知道那种感觉吗，就像是我们在救一个人，我们眼睁睁看着就要救活了，希望越来越大，结果突然被宣告死亡。
"Rescue in the distance and the last kilometer" You know that feeling, like we were saving a man, we were watching to be saved, hope grew, and suddenly we were pronounced dead.
”参与协调了这次全国对鄢成救援行动的广州扬爱特殊家长俱乐部理事长戴榕告诉本刊，意识到脑瘫少年鄢成被单独留在家中的时候，其实有很多人曾试图挽救这条生命。
Fanyan Dai, director of the Guangzhou Yanai Special Parents' Club, which coordinated the nationwide rescue effort for Yan Cheng, told the magazine that many people actually tried to save Yan Cheng's life when he was left alone at home.
“我们真的想了很多办法。
"We really thought about a lot of things.
”戴榕说，因为考虑到当地属于农村，没有NGO组织覆盖，在她23号听说这件事情的时候，就已经同中精协取得了联系，希望能够通过残联的系统对进行专案照顾，而中精协主席温洪也亲自联系了当地残联介入此事。
Considering the rural nature of the area and the lack of NGO coverage, Dai said that when she heard about the incident on May 23, she had contacted the CPPCC and hoped to take special care of it through the FIMITIC system.
1月23日晚12点左右，朱文沁联系上中精协湖北站站长，对方称省残联已连夜给红安县残联打电话，县残联给村里打电话，请求村里每天给鄢成送一顿饭，而村支书当时也称已接到县残联电话。
January 23 evening around 12 o'clock, Zhu Wenqin contact with the Hubei station stationmaster, the other side said that the provincial FIMITIC has repeatedly called Hongan County FIMITIC, the county FIMITIC called the village to request Yancheng to send a meal every day, and the village branch also said that it had received CDPF telephone.
1月24日上午，村委会与村医到家喂食、测体温。
On the morning of January 24, the village committee and the village doctor came home to feed and take temperature.
考虑到鄢小文被隔离的特殊情况，上海一家公益组织甚至提出，是否可以提供法律援助，利用新修订的《民法通则》，为鄢成指定一位临时的“议定监护人”或“社会监护人”，“可以是他的某位亲属，也可以是村支书等村上的领导，代为行使监护人的责权。
Considering the special circumstances surrounding Yan Xiaowen's isolation, a Shanghai public-interest group has even suggested whether legal aid could be provided to Yan Cheng to appoint an interim "agreed guardian" or "social guardian" to Yan Cheng, "who may be a relative of his or her village chief, or a village leader who exercises guardianship over him.
”然而，鄢成并没能等来这些措施发挥作用的那一刻。
Yan Cheng, however, failed to wait for these steps to work.
鄢成去世后，朱文沁和其它志愿者妈妈按日期整理了所有与鄢小文和村里的通话及聊天记录。
After Yan Cheng's death, Chu and other volunteer mothers arranged all their phone calls and chat records with Yan Xiaowen and the village, as scheduled.
1月23号白天，鄢小文的二姐接到弟弟电话去帮鄢成喂了一次饭，因为鄢小文的手机没电了，当晚，朱文沁联系上鄢成的大姑，又联系了大姑家的大表哥，希望能再去看一看鄢成。
During the day on January 23, Yan Xiao Wen's second sister received a call from her brother to help Yan Cheng feed her a meal because Yan Xiao Wen's cell phone was dead. That night, Zhu Wenqin contacted Yan Cheng's sister-in-law and her first cousin, hoping to see Yan Cheng again.
但大表哥说，已经是晚上8点半，太晚了，等明天再想办法去看。
But the first cousin said that it was 8: 30 pm, too late, wait until tomorrow to try to see.
24日上午，二姐再次去看望鄢成，喂了点食物，称鄢成“状态还可以”。
On the morning of the 24th, Second Sister Yan Cheng again visited Yan Cheng and fed her some food, calling her "in good condition."
村主任陈敬友也称自己“去喂过一次饭”；25日，村医至家门口“看了一下没有进家”。
Village director Chen Jingyou also called himself "to feed a meal"; on the 25th, the village doctor to the door "to see if there is no home."
另一位志愿者暖暖妈发微信请求村主任和镇卫生院去给孩子护理、喂饭，村主任没有回复；26日晚，村委会、镇卫生院院长和县民政局工作人员等前去看望，给鄢成喂了蛋黄派。
Another volunteer sent a letter asking the village director and the township hospital to nurse and feed the children. The village director did not respond. On the evening of 26, the villagers' committee, the director of the township hospital and the county civil affairs bureau went to see him, feeding Yan Cheng an egg yolk pie.
鄢小文的二姐在24号之后病了，据鄢小文称，二姐24到26号都在镇卫生院输液，27日早上，二姐本来打算出门准备去看鄢成，却被二姐夫拦住。
Yan Xiao-wen's second sister fell ill after the 24th. According to Yan Xiaowen, the 2nd sister was infusion at the Town Health Center from 24th to 26th, and on the morning of the 27th, when she was going out to see Yan Cheng, she was stopped by her two brothers.
直到28日上午二姑、村主任陈敬友和村医去看鄢成，朱文沁收到反馈，鄢成“全身都是湿的” 。
Not until the morning of the 28th morning Ernu, village director Chen Jingyou and village doctor to Yan Cheng, Yan received feedback, Yan Cheng "all wet."
二姑事后对其它媒体描述了鄢成当时的状态，“他躺在躺椅上，头悬空着，嘴巴和脸上都是脏东西，被子里面也是。
"She later described Yan Cheng's condition to other media." He was lying on a couch with his head dangling from his head, his mouth and face covered with dirt, and covered in quilts.
我带有开水，把他嘴上脸上擦干净，换了尿不湿，喂了半杯开水，他吃了小半杯米饭，就不再吃了。
I carried boiled water, wiped his face clean on his mouth, changed his urine not wet, fed half a cup of boiled water, he ate half a cup of rice, did not eat.
”“从1月28日开始，鄢成无法进食了，1月28日傍晚，陈敬友带村医给鄢成喂了两杯氨基酸；1月29日上午，新请到的看护人员给鄢成喂了两杯氨基酸……”1月28日晚上村主任带村医测体温朱文沁告诉本刊，26号，鄢成本来有机会被收治，当天晚上9点，鄢成曾被民政部门安排到镇卫生院体检，朱文沁当时打电话给村支书，问能否把孩子留在镇卫生院，但对方回应，“这样一个生活不能自理的孩子，父亲是疑似新型冠状病毒患者，他是传染性的高危人群，镇卫生院并非隔离点，也没有相应防护措施，他大小便失禁，给他处理都会污染整个房间。
"Starting January 28, Yan Cheng was unable to eat. Yancheng Yan had two amino acids fed to Yan Cheng on the evening of January 28." On the morning of January 29, Yan Cheng received two cups of amino acids.
”结果当天零点过后，鄢成再次被抬回了家中。
By midnight, Yan Cheng was carried home again.
鄢小文的求助信中曾提到，村里没有人愿意照顾鄢成的原因是缺少必要的防护工具，“因为孩子和我密切接触，且出现过1次低烧，也进入疑似人群在家单独隔离，由于没有防护设备，所以无法安排相关人员久留照料吃喝、处理大小便及换洗照料。
Yan Xiaowen's letter mentioned that no one in the village wanted to take care of Yan Cheng because he lacked the necessary protective tools. "Because the children were in close contact with me and had a low fever, and because there was no protective equipment, it was impossible to arrange for people to stay for long periods to eat, drink, defecate and change care.
希望大家能捐助必要的防护物资。
It is hoped that you will donate the necessary protective materials.
”在朱文沁拿到的一些救助图片中，能看到村民所能用到的防护工具只有口罩、雨衣、塑料布。
In some of the images Zhu received, the only protective tools available to villagers were masks, raincoats and plastic sheeting.
鄢小文在求助信中留下了华河镇卫生院刘正磊医生的电话。
Yan Xiaowen leaves a call to Dr. Liu Zhenglei at the Huahe Town Health Center.
但此前他在接受媒体采访时曾称，“并没有物资捐献过来”。
But he had said in an interview with the media that "nothing has been donated."
鄢家村位于黄冈市的西北150余公里，距离武汉120公里。
Visayas Village is located more than 150 km northwest of Huanggang and 120 km from Wuhan.
一年多前，朱文沁曾经跟着鄢小文父子去过那里，对这个村子她没有过多的印象，但是显然鄢小文一家在村里的经济状况并不好，他们住在精准扶贫盖的三间平房里，没有装修，屋子里也没有取暖器。
More than a year ago, Chu Wenqin had been there with the Fyan brothers and her son. She had not much impression of the village, but it was clear that the Yankees were in poor economic condition in the village. They lived in three bungalows built with precise poverty alleviation.
鄢成生命的最后六天，在这里度过。
Yan Cheng spent her last six days here.
红安县残联一位李姓负责人告诉本刊，县残联确实接到了上级要求，但是在具体救助过程中，残联只能起到辅助作用，他表示“因为事情尚在调查中，目前不方便透露具体做了什么”。
A head of the CDPF in Hong'an told the magazine that the CDPF had indeed received requests from its superiors, but that the CDPF could only play a supporting role in the specific rescue process, he said, "because the matter is still under investigation, it is not convenient to disclose what exactly."
鄢家村一位村民组长则认为，“鄢家村平时只有三位村干部，却有几十个从外面打工回来的家庭，每天光统计隔离情况和体温就要消耗巨大的精力，上面每天要查两次数据，开会时不断强调漏报瞒报的责任。
"Visayas has only three village officials and dozens of families who come back from outside to work. The daily isolation and body temperature require a huge amount of energy, with data being checked twice a day and the responsibility for underreporting constantly being stressed during the meeting, according to a villager leader in Visayas
同时村干部还要组织村民截断道路、设卡，这么大的疫情面前，不可能把精力全扑在他们一家身上。
At the same time, village cadres should organize villagers to cut off roads and set up roadblocks.
”特殊家庭的悲剧相比于外界听到鄢成去世时的愤怒，在主要由自闭症患儿家长组成的救援群里，弥漫着更多消极和悲伤的情绪。
The tragedy of a special family is much more negative and sad than the anger felt by Yan Cheng when he died, in a rescue group composed mostly of parents of autistic children.
他们很多人第一次经历这样的救助，以往大都是哪个家庭破裂了，或者是经济上支撑不下去了。
Many of them experienced such assistance for the first time, mostly in the past when families broke down or were financially unable to sustain themselves.
戴榕说，“这些妈妈们这些天说得最多的话是，如果这是我的孩子怎么办？”在鄢成去世后，还在杏花乡卫生院隔离病房的鄢小文被要求签署面对“授权委托书”，“遗体24小时内必须火化。
"What if this is my child," said Dai. "Yan Xiaowen, still in the isolation ward of the Xianghua Township Health Center after Yansheng's death, is required to sign a Letter of Authorization to" cremate the body within 24 hours.
”鄢小文称，对方这样告诉他，“这是按照国家对疫情防控的指示和规定。
"This is in accordance with national directives and regulations on epidemic prevention and control," Yan said.
”但很快，鄢小文意识到一旦签了这个东西，就再也见不到儿子了，他给媒体记者们拉了一个群，称“刚才的授权是被迫的，我希望至少先妥善保留着儿子的遗体，让我出院后能见一面，如果有可能的话，还想把遗体捐献了。
Soon, however, Yan realized that he would never see his son again once he signed the item, and pulled a group of media reporters to say, "The authorization was forced, and I hope that at least my son's body will be kept in good condition for me to be released from hospital and, if possible, donated.
”这同样是一个被精心照顾了17年的生命。
It was also a life taken care of for 17 years.
朱文沁认识他们父子三个快九年了，从来都没见这两个儿子身上带一点脏。
Zhu Wenqin has known their father and son for nearly nine years and has never seen any dirt on them.
“像鄢成全身不能动，但随身衣服包括枕巾，每天都换，真得难为鄢爸了。
"It's like Yan Cheng's body unable to move, but her clothes, including pillow towels, change every day.
”她说不知道是不是自己同样是自闭症儿童家长的原因，她对两个孩子的印象都不错，“鄢成就是一个非常爱笑，只要你和他说话就会对你笑，见谁都喊‘妈妈’的孩子。
She said she didn't know if she was also the parent of an autistic child, and she was impressed with both. "The Visayas achievement is such a laughing stock that if you talk to him you will laugh at you and see everyone calling 'Mommy' the child.
”鄢成鄢小文从鄢成出生开始就一直带着两个孩子在武汉，朱文沁的儿子与鄢小文的小儿子鄢小伟生日只差20天。
Yan Yan Yan Yan is born with her two children in Wuhan, just 20 days before her son Yan Xiaowei's little son Yanwei's birthday.
他明白鄢小文的心思，“大城市相对来说还是有更多用于康复的资源，也就意味着相对更好的康复环境，大家抱团取暖也更方便。
"Major cities still have relatively more resources for rehabilitation, which means a relatively better environment for recovery and better access to warm groups," he said.
”和很多自闭症或是其它特殊家庭一样，他们几乎把自己的全部精力投入到了对两个孩子的康复训练当中。
Like many autistic or special families, they devote almost all their energy to rehabilitation of their two children.
2016年，他们一同创办了“蜗牛家园”，将一百多平米的房子完全布置成了一个活动空间。
Together, in 2016, they created a "snail's home," where more than 100 square meters of houses are completely set up as a living space.
每天下午，家长们陪伴孩子在这里做音乐训练、打非洲鼓。
Every afternoon, parents accompany their children here to do music training, playing African drums.
阳台被打通后放了一张高低床，如果一切顺利，原本再过半个多月，鄢小文父子三人就会重新安顿在那里。
The balcony was opened after a high and low bed, if all goes well, originally more than half a month later, Yan Xiaowen father and son will resettle there.
2月1日上午，红安县新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎防控指挥部对外通报称，1月29日，红安县华家河镇鄢家村确诊为新冠病毒肺炎患者鄢小文的密切接触者鄢成，在该镇集中观测点房间内确认死亡，其死因正组织有关专家鉴定。
On January 29, Yan Xiaowen, a close contact with Yan Xiaowen, a patient with New Coronavirus Pneumonia, who was diagnosed in the Visayas village of Huagahe county, Hongan county, confirmed the death on February 1 in the room of the town's centralized observation point.
据联合调查组反馈，在此期间，鄢小文因隔离不能照料鄢成日常生活，遂委托其亲属、村干部和村医照顾，他们对鄢成虽每日均有照料，但有关干部没有做到尽心尽力、尽职尽责。
Yansheng Yan's relatives, village officials and village doctors were entrusted with the care of Yan Cheng during this period, according to the Joint Investigation Team's feedback that Yansheng's day-to-day care was not done with all due diligence.
华家河镇党委、政府在新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情防控期间，存在工作不实、作风不实，已经免去该镇党委书记、镇长职务。
During the prevention and control of the new coronavirus pneumonia, the Communist Party committee and the government in Huajiahe township have been dismissed from their posts as party secretaries and mayors.
1月31日下午国家卫生健康委召开新闻发布会，民政部基层政权建设和社区治理司司长陈越良在会上表示，民政部、国家卫生健康委近日印发的《关于进一步动员城乡社区组织开展新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情防控工作的紧急通知》中，提出了更加明确的要求，要求对有成员接受隔离治疗的家庭加强关心帮扶。
In the afternoon of January 31, the National Health Council held a press conference and Chen Yuliang, director of the Department of Grassroots Regime Building and Community Governance of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, said at the meeting that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the National Health and Sanitation Commission had recently issued an urgent notice to further mobilize urban and rural community organizations to carry out prevention and control of pneumonia in new coronavirus infections.
戴榕说，她们心智障碍者家长群体自己也会有反思，可能每一个这样家庭的家长都明白自己对孩子意味着什么，也都明白我们的社会对于精神障碍人士的支持力度还远远不够，可是大家在平时还是难免会忽视一些问题，“这件事如果发生在平时，可能我们会想，大不了就是往村子里派去一个志愿者或者是派一辆车把孩子接出来。
Dai said that the parents groups of the mentally handicapped also have their own reflection, perhaps every parent of such a family understand what it means to their children, and we also understand that our society's support for the mentally handicapped is still far from adequate.
这固然是一起极端事件，但是这件事的发生是不是也同时意味着在大量农村环境中，可能还有类似事情发生的隐患。
This is certainly an extreme event, but does it also mean that in a large number of rural settings, there may be similar hidden dangers.
”戴榕希望这起悲剧能让人们吸取教训：“这些家庭平时所面对的或许只是困难，但如果社会不重视的话，特殊的时期，困难也许就会放大为灾难。
Dai hopes that the tragedy will teach people lessons: "These families may face only difficulties in normal times, but if society does not pay attention to them, special periods may magnify difficulties into disasters.
”请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Wuhan New Crown Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the line of the epidemic # 1 Ongoing All-Story Lifestyle is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：医护人员、病患的故事，居家自我隔离经验，专业人士对防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
Including but not limited to: medical staff, patient stories, home isolation experience, professional advice on epidemic prevention... This draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words preferred), photos (original), audio and video (original recording).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
父亲被隔离6天后，17岁脑瘫少年的死亡。
Six days after his father was isolated, the 17-year-old died of cerebral palsy.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "父亲被隔离6天后，17岁脑瘫少年的死亡";。
var msg _ title = & quot; with the death of a 17-year-old with cerebral palsy six days after his father was isolated;;
var msg_desc = "特殊时期，困难也许就会放大为灾难。
var msg _ desc = & quot; at a particular time, difficulties may have magnified to disaster.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
