夹缝下的武汉肾病患者/* declared */。
Wuhan nephropathy sufferer / * declared * /.
夹缝下的武汉肾病患者<br>。
Wuhan Nephropathy with a seam; Br & gt;
| title       = 夹缝下的武汉肾病患者。
& # 144; & # 144; & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
夹缝下的武汉肾病患者。
Hanwuhan nephropathy sufferers under a seam.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
在一场庞大的对抗病毒的战役中，有一部分人被置于尴尬和灰色的境地。
In a massive anti-virus campaign, part of the population was left in an awkward and gray position.
《人物》记者对三位新冠肺炎疫情中的透析病人家属进行了采访，一位家属说：「在这个过程中，大家永远看到的焦点都是在于主体，其实有很多夹缝的阴影下的人，其实这些人不在少数，你把他的数量拎出来的话，真的不少。
A family member interviewed by People interviewed the families of three dialysis patients suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown Pneumonia said: "In this process, the focus is always on the main body, actually there are a lot of people in the shadow of the crevice, in fact there are a lot of these people, if you carry out his number, it is quite a lot.
」文｜荆欣雨 安小庆编辑｜糖槭「求求大家救救我们一家，实在是没有办法了。
"less than +: less than + less than +: Please help us all, there is really no way.
」1月31日上午，武汉市民周哲在自己微博上打出为父亲求救的第一行字。
"On the morning of January 31, Wuhan city Minzhou Zhe typed the first line on his microblog calling for help from his father.
周哲的父亲是透析病人，每周需要去武钢医院做三次透析。
Zhou Zhe's father, a dialysis patient, needs to be dialyzed three times a week at Wuhan Hospital.
他回忆，一周前父亲出现高烧、呕吐、全身无力的状态，他怀疑由于「前期根本不知道问题的严重性，去医院做透析没有戴口罩等任何防护措施」，父亲因此感染新冠肺炎。
He recalled his father's high fever, vomiting and general weakness a week ago, and suspected that he had contracted pneumonia as a result of "not knowing the seriousness of the problem and going to the hospital for dialysis without any protective measures, such as wearing a mask."
在接下来的三天时间里，周哲父亲被医生诊断为「高度疑似」，但因为试剂盒紧缺无法最终确诊，原透析医院拒绝为老人进行后续透析治疗，他也因无法确诊而无法被新冠肺炎定点医院接收。
Over the next three days, Zhou Zhe's father was diagnosed as "highly suspicious" by doctors, but the former dialysis hospital refused to provide follow-up dialysis to the elderly because of a shortage of test kits.
血液透析是治疗急、慢性肾功能衰竭的常规治疗方法。
Hemodialysis is a routine treatment for acute and chronic renal failure.
通过将血液引出体外利用透析、过滤等原理将多余的水分及毒素清除，再注回患者体内。
The excess water and toxins are removed by taking the blood out of the body using dialysis, filtration, etc., and then injected back into the patient.
透析病人一般按照医嘱需要每周去医院透析室做1到3次透析，每次3到4小时。
Dialysis patients generally require one to three dialysis visits per week to the hospital dialysis room for three to four hours at a time.
除肾脏移植患者外，肾衰竭患者都是需要终身透析的。
With the exception of kidney transplant patients, renal failure patients are in need of lifelong dialysis.
一旦透析中断，可能危及生命安全。
Once dialysis is interrupted, life may be endangered.
周哲回忆，那几天，他们每天四处求医，「就像移动的感染源，自己也很害怕传染给其他人，但是确实没办法了。
On those days, he recalls, they went around looking for treatment. "It was like a moving source of infection, and I was afraid of infecting other people, but there was nothing I could do.
」2月2日，周哲父亲终于在医院排队做了核酸检测，但还没有等到检测结果出来，老人已在2月3日上午不幸离世。
On February 2, Zhou Zhe's father finally queued up for a nucleic acid test at the hospital, but did not wait until the test results came out.
同样剧烈并且急速到来的巨大变故，也发生在方回的家庭中。
An equally dramatic and precipitous turn of events also took place in the Fang Hui family.
自2月1日以来，方回一直在为疑似感染新冠肺炎同时日常需要透析的父亲寻找床位。
Since February 1, Fang has been looking for a bed for his father, who is suspected of contracting pneumonia and needs dialysis on a daily basis.
方回告诉《人物》，父亲因为糖尿病肾衰竭，每周需要去湖北省中医院做两次透析。
Fang told People that his father needed to go to Hubei TCM twice a week for dialysis because of diabetic renal failure.
三周前，平日陪父亲去做透析的母亲出现发烧、乏力的症状，CT显示双肺感染，但因无法确诊，病情在八天内急转直下，不幸于1月31日凌晨去世。
Three weeks ago, the mother, who had accompanied her father to dialysis, developed symptoms of fever and fatigue. The CT showed a two-lung infection, but the condition fell sharply within eight days of being diagnosed and died in the early hours of January 31.
次日，还未从母亲突然离世的悲恸中走出的方回，带父亲去医院排查，发现父亲双肺也被感染（后确诊为新冠肺炎）。
The next day, not yet from the mother's sudden death of grief out of the square back, took his father to the hospital to clean up, found that his father was also infected with lung (after confirmed as the new crown pneumonia).
院方因不是新冠肺炎定点医院拒绝了方回父亲继续做下一次透析的要求。
The hospital refused Fang's request to go on with his next dialysis because it was not the new Crown Pneumonia Hospital.
方回前往此前政府文件所提到的几家可做透析的新冠肺炎定点医院，「有的说院区还在改造，并不具备条件，有的已经满床，我已经跑了8天了，还是没有床位，昨天半夜一点社区通知我们去医院办住院，医院说不知道对接人是谁，无法收治。
Returning to the dialysis-ready CHP hospitals mentioned in previous government documents, Mr Fang said, "Some said the courtyard was still being renovated and not equipped, some were full of beds, I had been running for eight days, or there were no beds.
『我们会上报，等消息吧』，给你的永远是这一句。
"We will report, wait for the news", give you always this sentence.
只能继续等下去，没有别的办法。
There was no alternative but to continue to wait.
」由于武汉已经「禁车」，交通不便，方回只能每次骑共享电动车在医院和家之间奔波。
Wuhan has been "banned", the traffic is not convenient, Fang can only ride a shared electric vehicle between the hospital and home.
上周的一天，他带着父亲去找医院做透析，「我骑了快2个小时的共享电动车，中间换了三次车，我倒还好，我爸快被折磨死。
One day last week, he took his father to the hospital for dialysis. "I rode a shared electric car for almost two hours and changed it three times in the middle.
」对武汉一万多个需要定期去医院透析的肾病患者来说，疫情的扩散、感染的高危风险、封城以及随之而来的私家车禁行，将他们抛入一个尴尬的处境和灰色的区间。
The spread of the epidemic, the high risk of infection, the closure of the city and the consequent ban on private cars have thrown Wuhan into an awkward and grey zone for more than 10,000 kidney patients who need to go to hospital dialysis on a regular basis.
公益组织「肾·一样的人」发起者智安告诉《人物》记者，对于未感染新冠肺炎病毒的普通透析病人来说，随着被征用医院在病友、公益组织、媒体报道呼吁下又陆续开放透析室，透析基本已经不成问题，当下紧迫的问题在于物资和出行。
For dialysis patients who are not infected with the new crown pneumonia virus, dialysis is virtually non-existent as hospitals are opening dialysis rooms under the appeal of patients, pro bono groups and media reports. The immediate problem is supplies and travel.
「比如说口罩。
"Like a mask.
一次透析需要三个口罩（一次透析大概在3到4小时左右。
Three masks are needed for one dialysis (about three to four hours at a time).
在透析室需要一个，来回路上各需要一个），很多病友都没有口罩了……别人可以在家里边待一周啊，待十天半个月不出门，那都没什么问题，但他们不行。
One in the dialysis room, one on the way back and forth), many of the patients have lost their masks... others can stay at home for a week, ten days for half a month, and that's fine, but they can't.
如果不去透析的话，他们就没有办法维持生命的。
Without dialysis, they would not be able to sustain themselves.
」智安说。
"said Zhian.
但智安告诉《人物》，对于很多确诊或疑似新冠肺炎的透析病人来说，「他们面临的状况非常尴尬。
But ZhiAn told People that for many dialysis patients diagnosed or suspected to have pneumonia, "the situation they face is very embarrassing."
找床位特别难找。
Finding a bed is particularly difficult.
」目前武汉已经为肾衰竭和血液透析病人安排了7家定点医院。
Wuhan has arranged seven designated hospitals for patients with kidney failure and hemodialysis.
但根据多位肾透析病友的讲述，医院均不接受个人，需要社区转诊。
But according to several kidney dialysis patients, hospitals do not accept individuals and require community referral.
数日来，这几家医院的床位基本都是满员状况。
For days, the beds in these hospitals have been almost full.
此外，《人物》在采访中还了解到另一种特殊群体的困境——一些患有慢性肾病的人，由于肺部长期积液，慢性的肺部炎症存在已久。
In addition, PEOPLE learned in interviews about the plight of another special group - people with chronic kidney disease who have had chronic lung inflammation for a long time as a result of chronic pulmonary effusion.
但在这个有关「肺」的一切症状都会引起重视的特殊时期，他们被要求反复做核酸检测，以证明自己没有感染新冠肺炎。
But at a particular time when all symptoms of lung are valued, they were asked to repeat nucleic acid tests to prove that they were not infected with pneumonia.
他们照做了，却又被告知目前核酸检测的准确性有待考量。
They did, but were told that the accuracy of current nucleic acid testing needed to be considered.
他们无法前往7家定点医院，也不被普通的透析室接纳。
They were unable to reach seven designated hospitals and were not admitted to regular dialysis rooms.
他们成了真正的无处透析的人。
They became real dialysis patients.
在一场庞大的对抗病毒的战役中，有一部分人被置于尴尬和灰色的境地。
In a massive anti-virus campaign, part of the population was left in an awkward and gray position.
《人物》记者对三位新冠肺炎疫情中的透析病人家属进行了采访，一位家属说：「在这个过程中，大家永远看到的焦点都是在于主体，其实有很多夹缝的阴影下的人，其实这些人不在少数，你把他的数量拎出来的话，真的不少。
A family member interviewed by People interviewed the families of three dialysis patients suffering from pneumonia in the New Crown Pneumonia said: "In this process, the focus is always on the main body, actually there are a lot of people in the shadow of the crevice, in fact there are a lot of these people, if you carry out his number, it is quite a lot.
」图源视觉中国                     1以下为陆帆的自述。
Source Vision China 1 below is a self-description of Lu Fan.
他的奶奶为透析病人叠加疑似新冠肺炎病人，2月5号在家中去世。
His grandmother, who superimposed a suspected new crown pneumonia on dialysis patients, died at home on February 5.
我奶奶78岁，做透析已经有三年了，每周要去武汉大学附属中南医院透析3次。
My grandmother was 78 years old and had dialysis for three years. She had to go to Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital three times a week.
1月初的时候，奶奶开始发烧，不舒服，到医院检查后说双肺感染，那个时候新冠肺炎还没全面爆发，在医院住了大概七八天，当时烧退了，医院就让出院了，但肺部感染的问题没有彻底解决，只是说情况好转了。
At the beginning of January, Grandma began to have a fever and was unwell. She went to the hospital for tests and said she had two lung infections. By that time she had been in the hospital for about seven or eight days.
1月25号，奶奶又开始发烧，当时新冠肺炎已经爆发了，我们也很怕，因为她每个星期要去医院做三次透析，透析室里都是免疫力比较差的病人。
On January 25, Grandma had a fever again, and we were afraid of the outbreak of pneumonia. She had to go to the hospital three times a week for dialysis.
所以我们担心是不是新冠肺炎，当时就带着奶奶去中南医院拍了CT，做了血检。
So we worried about the new crown pneumonia, then took Grandma to the South China Hospital to take a CT, blood test.
CT结果是高度疑似新冠肺炎，但当时中南医院没有试剂盒，无法做核酸检测，就让我们自己回家隔离。
The CT results were highly suspicious of New Crown Pneumonia, but at that time the South-Central Hospital did not have a kit to do nucleic acid tests, so we went home and isolated ourselves.
奶奶情况一天比一天差，而且2月1号之后中南医院已经拒绝让我奶奶去透析了。
Grandma's condition was getting worse day by day, and after February 1, Zhongnan Hospital had refused to let my grandmother go for dialysis.
拒绝的原因是，中南医院的透析病房没有新冠肺炎病人的隔离透析病房，如果是新冠肺炎进去透析的话，十几个人一个大房间，就有可能会感染其他人。
The reason for the refusal was that the dialysis ward at the South-Central Hospital did not have a dialysis ward for patients with Newcomial Pneumonia, and a dozen people with a large room could infect others if admitted to dialysis with Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
不能定时透析，奶奶的身体垮得非常快。
Without regular dialysis, Grandma collapsed very quickly.
我们全家就辗转到华科附属的梨园医院，那边刚到了一批试剂盒。
Our family moved to the Pear Garden Hospital attached to Huaco, where a batch of kits had just arrived.
本来是第二天拿结果的，结果第二天去，梨园医院说检查结果搞丢了，当时又重新做了一个。
It was the next day to get the results of the results, the next day, pear Garden Hospital said the results of the examination lost, and then do a new.
那个时候奶奶已经浑身无力，需要人扶着，基本上不了楼走不了路了。
At that time, Grandma was already weak, need someone to support, basically can not walk the floor.
又等了一天，拿到结果，是阴性。
Wait a day, get the result, be negative.
我们很高兴，当时就拿着结果把奶奶带去中南医院，希望那边能让奶奶住院，继续透析。
We were very happy. We took Grandma to Zhongnan Hospital with the result, hoping that she could be hospitalized and continue her dialysis.
但中南医院肾病医学科的主任看了我们核酸检测结果之后，又看了下CT，他的原话是，「通过这个CT观察，我认为这基本上就是新冠肺炎。
But the director of nephrology at Zhongnan Hospital looked at the results of our nucleic acid test and then looked at the CT, which says, "With this CT scan, I think it's basically New Crown Pneumonia.
我不是很认可这个核酸检测的结果，核酸检测存在一定的误差性的。
I don't quite agree with the results of this nucleic acid test, which has certain errors.
」因此他拒绝收治我奶奶入院。
"So he refused to admit my grandmother to hospital.
我不怪他。
I don't blame him.
因为后来我一个卫生院的朋友告诉我，核酸检测试剂盒准确率并不高。
Because later a friend of mine told me that the nucleic acid test kit was not accurate.
不知道有多少家庭因为这个试剂盒延误了治疗时机，又有多少医护人员因为试剂盒误测被感染。
It is not known how many families have delayed treatment because of the kit and how many health care workers have been infected by mistesting the kit.
这位医生说他不认这个结果后，让我们去武汉市定点的七医院再做检测。
The doctor said he did not recognize the results, let us go to Wuhan designated seven hospitals to do a test.
但我们去中南医院见他的当天下午，奶奶已经昏迷，再做一次核酸检测也做不了，人已经休克了。
But on the afternoon of the day we met him at Zhongnan Hospital, Grandma was unconscious and unable to do another nucleic acid test.
医生说他也无能为力，因为没有床位，没有医疗资源，他也收治不了，要我们自己想办法。
The doctor said that there was nothing he could do, because there were no beds, no medical resources, and he could not take care of himself.
期间我们联系社区，社区帮我们联系了卫健委，卫健委通过社区告诉我们他们也无能为力，因为现在确实没有床位，没有救治力量。
During our contact with the community, the community to help us contact the health care committee, Wei health committee told us through the community they can not do, because there is no beds, no treatment.
我们自己也联系了好多医院，普通医院不收发热患者，他们都说我奶奶是疑似新冠肺炎患者，要去定点医院。
We also contacted a number of hospitals, general hospitals do not accept fever patients, they all said that my grandmother is suspected patients with new crown pneumonia, to go to the hospital.
我们又联系新冠肺炎的定点医院，对方又说奶奶没有确诊，收不了。
We also contact the new crown pneumonia at the designated hospital, the other side said that Grandma has not been diagnosed, can not receive.
就是陷入死循环了，所有医院都不收。
It's a dead-end cycle. All hospitals are closed.
我奶奶就像处在夹缝中的灰色地带。
My grandmother is like a gray area in a crevice.
我们也打了120，说病人休克了，情况很危机，需要急救，120给我们的答复是，他们也没有办法，他们说，救护车过来的前提是我们要先找到愿意收治奶奶的医院，他们才能过来，否则救护车来了也没地方可以去。
We also called 120 and said that the patient was in a critical condition and needed first aid. The answer was that there was nothing they could do. They said that the ambulance had to come because we had to find a hospital willing to admit Grandma before they could come, or there would be no place for an ambulance to arrive.
他说，他们最近见的太多了，他们曾经带了一个病患跑了三四家医院，全部被拒之门外。
They've seen too much lately, he says, and they've taken a patient to three or four hospitals and turned them down.
从2月4号下午到现在（2月5日下午），奶奶只能躺在家里，已经没有任何反应了，摇喊已经没有反应了，只有呼吸声，也不能进食，水也喝不下去。
From the afternoon of February 4 to the present (February 5 afternoon), Grandma could only lie at home, no longer any reaction, no response, only breathing, no food, no water to drink.
（编者注：2月5日下午，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，规定在湖北省内，将CT影像结果作为临床诊断病例的诊断标准。
(Note to the Editor: In the afternoon of Feb. 5, the State Council of Health issued the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia Infected by New Coronavirus (Trial Version 5)," which stipulates that CT images should be used as diagnostic criteria for clinical cases in Hubei Province.
）包括我自己进了一些求助群，QQ群，微信群，好多例情况也跟我们很类似的，就是许多不是新冠肺炎的（其他病症的）病人也在求助，因为他得不到一个基本的治疗保障。
) Including myself into a number of help groups, QQ groups, micro-groups, and many cases are similar to ours, where many patients who are not newly crowned with pneumonia (other conditions) are also seeking help because they do not have access to a basic level of care.
肺部没有感染之前，我奶奶身体状态不错的，她自己洗澡、吃饭都没有问题，自理能力很ok。
Before the lung infection, my grandma was in good health. She bathed herself, ate well, and looked after herself very well.
但自从疫情发生后，生活突然发生了很多变故。
But life has suddenly changed a lot since the outbreak.
这个变故非常快，有点不真实。
The change was quick and somewhat untrue.
因为除夕那晚，奶奶还和我们一起吃了年饭。
Because on New Year's Eve, Grandma and I had Chinese New Year's Eve dinner.
我的两个孩子，双胞胎，刚出生三个月，奶奶有一种老观念，觉得自己一直在透析，是病人，看宝宝的话对宝宝不好，所以除夕那天是她第一次见到宝宝，抱宝宝。
My two children, twins, were just three months old, and Grandma had an old idea that she was dialysis, a patient, that baby talk was bad for the baby, so New Year's Eve was the first time she had ever seen a baby and held it.
当时家人还说过年期间要找个照相馆拍一张四世同堂的全家福，结果也没有拍成，这是我很大的一个遗憾。
At that time, the family also said that they would find a photo studio to take a picture of the fourth generation together, but the results were not filmed, which is a great pity for me.
整个事情发展太迅速，现在感觉确实像战时状态了。
The whole thing was moving so fast that it really felt like a wartime situation.
这也是很惭愧的一点。
It's a shame, too.
因为孩子的出生，家人们都让我少去医院，少和大家见面。
Because of the birth of my child, my family let me go to the hospital less and meet less people.
没有孩子之前，是我和表哥两个人轮流接送我奶奶去透析。
Before I had any children, my cousin and I took turns taking my grandma to dialysis.
新冠肺炎爆发之后，家里人也不让我去了，因为有一定的风险，我如果得了，我年轻可能还好，但是我带回来给宝宝，是有很大的风险。
After the outbreak of pneumonia, my family did not allow me to go, because there are certain risks, if I have, I may be young, but I brought back to the baby, is a great risk.
所以我也很久都没看到我奶奶了。
So I haven't seen my grandma for a long time.
包括现在她在家里休克、躺着，奄奄一息，我挺想去看她的，但是我的理智告诉我还是算了吧。
Including now that she was in shock at home, lying on her deathbed, I would have liked to see her, but my reason told me to forget.
我内心特别难受。
I feel terrible inside.
其实疫情爆发之前，我和太太已经在医院里面感觉到不对劲了。
Before the outbreak of the outbreak, my wife and I had already felt something was wrong in the hospital.
去年12月底的时候，我和太太去医院做产后检查，那个时候新冠肺炎已经引起医院的注意了，因为那个时候已经设了单独的发热门诊，单独的隔离区，包括排队做CT的人是以前的几倍，并且医护人员的保护措施已经起来了，戴上口罩了，但那个时候，我们在家里是感觉不到这种异常和紧张感的。
At the end of December last year, my wife and I went to the hospital for a postnatal check-up. By that time, there were separate fever clinics, many times as many people in separate colonies, including CT queues, and health-care workers were up and wearing masks.
走在路上也感觉不到，因为很少很少看到有人戴口罩。
Walking on the road is not felt, because very few people see people wearing masks.
患者在医院输液图源澎湃新闻当时在医院的时候已经觉得有些奇怪，因为当时网上也有一些消息嘛，所以回家之后，我们俩就觉得这个事情可能没有我们表面看起来和感觉到的那么小、那么轻松，可能会有一些严重。
It was a bit strange when we were at the hospital because there was some news on the Internet, so when we got home, we thought it might not be as small, as easy, or as serious as we might have thought.
当时我们开始劝阻家里的长辈，让他们少出门，千万不要出去打牌，我们算是比较早地制止了我们的长辈。
At that time we began to dissuade our elders, let them go out less, do not go out to play cards, we are relatively early to stop our elders.
所以疫情全面爆发前，他们也开始比较注意了，我们也很早开始囤积了一些口罩、酒精和84消毒水。
So before the outbreak, they began to pay more attention, we began to hoard some masks, alcohol and 84 disinfectant.
实际上小道消息的传播是比官方新闻要快的，我们收到了很多小道消息，包括公众号啊包括朋友之间发的东西啊，那个时候我们就拼命给长辈发。
In fact, the gossip spread faster than the official news, we received a lot of gossip, including the public name ah, including the things sent between friends ah, when we desperately sent to the elderly.
我觉得我们在经历一个历史，今年肯定是一个历史。
I think we're going through a history, and this year is definitely a history.
就算非典的时候，说是封城，其实也没有封城。
Even when SARS, said to be closed city, in fact, there is no closure.
但现在武汉是结结实实在封城，而且不光武汉封了，整个湖北省都封了，所以我们经历的一定是历史，而且在这个历史事件中，我们失去了亲人，经历了这些危险，这个紧张的岁月，作为一个人，我觉得大家不应该去淡忘这个事情。
But now Wuhan is solid in the closure of the city, and not only Wuhan sealed, the whole Hubei Province closed, so we must experience history, and in this historical event, we lost loved ones, experienced these dangers, this tense years, as a person, I think we should not forget this matter.
我身边的亲戚朋友、同学，我认识的人里面，几乎每一家人里面都有感染的、确诊的。
I am surrounded by relatives, friends, classmates, I know people, almost every family inside the infected, diagnosed.
我跟我奶奶是很有感情的。
I have feelings for my grandma.
过去三年每周都送她去做透析。
She's been on dialysis every week for the past three years.
说实话，如果你没有见过的话，第一次看到透析室，冲击是很大很大的，它就是把人的血从身体里面抽出来，在机器里过一道然后再输进去，有一种把人生生剥离开，然后洗刷好了再塞进去那种感觉。
To tell you the truth, if you haven't seen it before, the first time you see a dialysis room, the shock is huge. It is the feeling of taking blood out of the body, passing through a machine and then feeding in, a feeling of stripping life away and then washing it up and putting it in.
但这个常规的治疗手段在现在都没有办法持续了。
But this routine treatment is no longer sustainable.
在这个过程中，大家永远看到的焦点都是在于主体，其实有很多夹缝的阴影下的人，其实这些人不在少数，你把他的数量拎出来的话，真的不少。
In this process, you will always see the focus on the main body, there are many people in the shadow of the crevice, in fact, there are many of these people, you carry out his number, really many.
武汉中南医院一位患者正在接受治疗图源新京报我们视频（编者注：2月5日下午采访结束的8个小时后，陆帆在微信里告诉《人物》：我奶奶刚刚逝世了，谢谢您的关注。
A patient at Wuhan Zhongnan Hospital is receiving a treatment map from the Beijing News. Eight hours after the interview ended on Feb. 5, Lu Fan told People in a microphone that my grandmother had just died. Thank you for your attention.
应该是媒体的关注和网上的求助起到了作用，区卫健委晚上告诉我们住院单已经开好了，可惜奶奶等不到了。
It should be the media attention and online help play a role, District Health Committee told us at night that the hospital orders have been opened, but Grandma can not wait.
）                     2以下是张琼的自述，她的母亲魏茹珍因患有慢性肺炎而无法继续在原来的医院透析。
) The following is a self-report by Joan Zhang, whose mother, Wei Zhuzhen, was unable to continue dialysis in her old hospital due to chronic pneumonia.
我母亲今年79岁，有尿毒症和各种基础性疾病，长期做肾脏透析，每周三次。
My mother, 79 years old, has uremia and various basic diseases and has had kidney dialysis for three times a week.
她之前一直在武汉天佑医院做透析，这个医院被征收为第三批的定点发热医院后，透析室就关闭了，把我母亲转到了武汉科技大学附属医院黄家湖院区做透析。
She had been undergoing dialysis at Wuhan Tianyou Hospital, the third designated fever hospital, and the dialysis room was closed, transferring my mother to the Huangjiahu courtyard of Wuhan University of Science and Technology for dialysis.
到了那之后，院方就要求我们拍CT和抽血检验，做了之后，就发现我妈妈的肺部有炎症。
After that, the hospital asked us to take a CT and a blood test, and when we did, they found that my mother's lungs were inflamed.
她肺部确实有慢性肺炎，这是三年前她因为心衰住院时就有的，当时医生说过，她身体各个器官都在走向衰竭，所以有炎症是正常的。
She does have chronic pneumonia in her lungs, which she had three years ago when she was hospitalized for heart failure, and doctors said it was normal for her to have inflammation because all her organs were failing.
黄家湖医院要求我妈妈去做核酸鉴定，我们就在人民医院排了一晚上的队做了，我和我爱人排着队，让我妈妈在车里休息。
Huangjiahu Hospital asked my mother to do nucleic acid identification, we have been in the People's Hospital queue all night, my wife and I lined up, let my mother rest in the car.
结果出来是阴性，我们把结果拿回黄家湖，那次（2月1日）就给我们透析了。
It turned out to be negative and we took the results back to Huangjia Lake, where we had dialysis on February 1.
4号我们再去透析，院方要求我们再拍片子，CT跟之前比没有什么变化，又要求我们做核酸检测，我只好带着我妈妈去求医生，让他们给我妈妈写咳嗽（她不存在的症状），这样才有资格做核酸检测。
We went back to dialysis on the 4th, the hospital asked us to take another picture, CT was no different than before, and asked us to do a nucleic acid test, so I took my mother to the doctor and asked them to write a cough (her non-existent symptoms) to qualify for a nucleic acid test.
那天我们做了两次，七医院一次，人民医院一次，结果全是阴性。
We did it twice that day, once in seven hospitals and once in the people's hospital.
5号我们带着结果返回黄家湖，我说不透析，我妈妈是死路一条了，他们打了个电话给CT的检验科，然后就给透析了，我约下一次的时候，医院就说绝对不可以了，只要肺部有炎症，我全部不收。
We returned to Huangjia Lake with the results. I said no to dialysis. My mother was dead. They called the CT examination department and gave dialysis. The next time I made an appointment, the hospital said no.
我就给院领导打电话，他们说要开会研究一下，2个多小时后，一个书记给我打电话，说为了安全起见，只要有肺炎就不给透析了。
I called the hospital leader and they said they were going to have a meeting to study it. More than two hours later, a secretary called me and said that, for safety reasons, I would not give dialysis as long as there was pneumonia.
我妈妈不发烧、不咳嗽，也没有呼吸急促，所有的（新冠肺炎）症状都没有。
My mother has no fever, no cough, no shortness of breath, and none of her symptoms.
不管你核酸结果做了多少次，都是阴性，也不收。
No matter how many times you do nucleic acid results, they're negative, and they don't.
他现在已经不认可核酸检测这个手段了，只看胸片，只要有炎症，就不收。
He now does not recognize nucleic acid testing this means, only to see the chest film, as long as there is inflammation, do not take.
6号早上我跑了几家医院透析室，有私人的有定点医院的，到处被指来指去，你到那去问问，你到那去问问，等问对地方了，也没问我什么情况，直接就说病床满了，不收了。
On the morning of the 6th I went to several hospital dialysis rooms, some private hospitals were appointed, and everywhere you went to ask, you went there to ask, you asked the right place, did not ask me what the situation is, simply said the beds are full, closed.
我也很体谅他们，护士全部都三班倒，从早上8点一直到晚上上10点钟都还在做透析。
I also sympathized with them. The nurses worked three shifts, dialysis from 8am to 10pm.
我打了武汉市的市长热线、市卫健委和区卫健委的电话，所有的热线电话，该打的我都打了，能跑的医院我也都跑了。
I called the mayor's hotline in Wuhan, the city health committee and the district health committee, all the hotlines, I have to call the call, can run the hospital I ran.
卫健委的电话每回都说要上报，上报了之后再给你解决，社区也是和热线一样的口径，上报之后给你们回复，就没有下文了。
Weijian health committee every time said to report, after the report to you to solve, the community is the same calibre as the hotline, reported back to you, there is no follow-up.
有一次，卫健委接电话的人跟我说，「你跟院方说，让他们把《关于做好新冠肺炎疫情期间特殊病人医疗保障工作的通知》好好学习一下。
On one occasion, the person who answered the phone told me, "Tell the hospital that they should study the Notice on the Health Protection of Special Patients During the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic."
」我听了哭笑不得，我一个小市民，我把那个文件念给他们听，他们现在根本都不理睬我，那有什么意义呢。
"I could not help crying and laughing. I was a small citizen, and I read the document to them. What was the point of their ignoring me now?
我妈妈的糖尿病有20多年了，并发症有冠心病、尿毒症，她身体的各个器官都在衰竭，包括她的尿路也有炎症，肺也有炎症。
My mother has had diabetes for more than 20 years. Complications include coronary heart disease, uremia, exhaustion of all her organs, including inflammation in her urinary tract and inflammation in her lungs.
最近她不能及时透析，体内的水分大了身上就肿，肿了之后就压迫心脏，心脏就不舒服。
Recently she can't dialysis in time, the body is swollen with water, swelling after the pressure on the heart, the heart is not comfortable.
肺里面也积水了。
There's water in the lungs.
会继续有炎症。
There will continue to be inflammation.
她这种病人如果不能透析最多最多就是挺一个礼拜。
A patient like her can spend a week at most without dialysis.
有时一天下来我就吃了两个汤圆，还不饿，因为我真的很着急，我已经吃不进去东西了。
Sometimes I ate two dumplings at the end of the day. I wasn't hungry, because I was really worried. I couldn't eat anything.
我晚上睡觉都睡不着。
I can't sleep at night.
我母亲也很着急，她说过了不起我就不透析了，她也怕我们被感染了。
My mother was worried, too. She said it was amazing. I stopped dialysis, and she was afraid we might get infected.
我还得宽慰她，说我尽量去找，你没什么事的，总有地方会帮你透析的。
I had to comfort her and say I'd do my best. You're fine. There's always a place for your dialysis.
得了新冠肺炎的病人很可怜，他们确实需要治疗，但是这些透析病人也是人，也有生存的权利啊。
The patients with pneumonia are pitiful. They really need treatment, but these dialysis patients are human and have the right to live.
疫情下接受治疗的病人图源央视新闻（编者注：2月8日，张琼找到了一家汉阳的私人血透中心自费为母亲透析，「能有地方给她透，我已经谢天谢地了」，她说。
2007-3-1 15: 55 [hide] "I'm thankful there's room for her to dialyse," Zhang Qiong found a private blood dialysis center in Hanyang on Feb. 8 to pay for her own dialysis, "I'm thankful there's room for her," she said.
透析的频率减到了一周两次，她跟母亲说，要尽量控制水的摄入。
The frequency of dialysis was reduced to twice a week and she told her mother to try to limit water intake.
张琼现在的祈祷是，周四也就是2月13号，她们不会被这家私人血透中心拒绝。
Ms. Zhang's prayer now is that they will not be turned down by the private hemodialysis centre on Thursday, Feb. 13.
）                     3以下是董雪的自述。
The following is Dong Xue's account of himself.
她是一位25岁的、土生土长的武汉女孩。
She is a 25-year-old native of Wuhan girl.
她的父亲在患有肺部炎症的同时，移植了9个月的肾出现了排异反应，在遍寻不到插管的条件下去世了。
Her father, who was suffering from lung inflammation, died after a nine-month-old kidney transplant that rejected the idea.
我父亲51岁，9个月前曾经在汉口同济做过肾移植手术，那之后状态恢复得不错，高于普通的肾移植同期平均值。
My father, 51, had a kidney transplant nine months ago at Hankou Tongji, and he's recovered well since then, above the average for a normal kidney transplant.
但是他的肺有点问题，一个是之前透析因为操作不当导致肺积水，当时抽了一斤左右的血水出来。
But there was something wrong with his lungs. One was that he had been draining about a kilo of blood from previous dialysis due to improper operation.
肾移植期间肺再次产生了结节，从此就有了肺的一个病根。
During the kidney transplant, the lungs produced nodules again, which gave rise to a diseased root of the lungs.
1月15号的时候，我父亲开始发烧，吃了退烧药，18号去医院，汉口同济呼吸科排除了新型冠状病毒的可能性，肾移植医生建议我们办理住院治疗，紧急打针，把肺炎压下去。
On January 15, my father developed a fever, took antipyretics, went to the hospital on January 18th, and Hankou Tongji Respiratory Department ruled out the possibility of a new coronavirus.
我们也拿到住院证了，但同时武汉的疫情管控开始收紧了，住院那边说我父亲肺部有炎症，不能收了，让我们回家吃药自行治疗，等疫情稳定后再住院。
We also got a hospital certificate, but at the same time Wuhan began to tighten the control of the epidemic, hospital said my father lung inflammation, can not take, let us take medicine to treat their own, until the situation stabilized after hospitalization.
之后我们有一直跟同济联系想住院，没有成功，只是给我们开了吊水，我们去社区医院打。
We've been trying to stay in the hospital with Tongji, but we've just been given water hoses and we're going to the community hospital.
治疗肺炎的同时我们也听从医生的建议停了抗排异药，因为抗排异药跟治疗肺炎的抗生素相反，是降低人体免疫力的。
While treating pneumonia, we also stopped anti-rejection drugs on the advice of our doctors, because, unlike antibiotics for pneumonia, anti-rejection drugs reduce immunity.
2月1号的上午，我父亲发生肾排异反应，几乎没有小便了，最高烧到41度，肌酐从83升至280。
On the morning of February 1, my father experienced renal rejection, with little or no urine at all, reaching a peak of 41 degrees and creatinine rising from 83 to 280.
打了120没法上门，去医院又要去发热门诊检查，我们很怕被交叉感染，回家联系社区，他们表示现在只能筛查是否为新冠肺炎病毒感染，并且因为发热做不了任何肾功能相关检查。
Unable to make the 120 calls to the hospital and then to the fever clinic, we were afraid of cross-infection and went home to contact the community. They said they could only screen for a new crown pneumonia virus and could not do any renal function tests because of fever.
第二天因为情况确实紧急，我们到光谷同济做了核酸检测，希望如果能确诊，就可以去定点医院治疗了，如果是阴性，也可以去普通医院收治。
The next day, because of the urgency of the situation, we went to Guanggu Tongji for a nucleic acid test, hoping that if we could confirm it, we could go to the hospital for treatment and, if it was negative, we could go to a general hospital.
那天我父亲在光谷同济打了一天的吊水，包括做各种各样的检查，在医院一共待了十几个小时。
That day my father spent a day hanging water in Guanggu Tongji, including various examinations, and spent more than ten hours in the hospital.
结果出来是阴性。
It turned out to be negative.
我妈妈在光谷同济待了10个小时，没有见到任何医生。
My mother stayed in Guanggu for 10 hours and did not see any doctor.
因为医务人员都忙着处理新冠肺炎，已经超负荷了，没有时间帮我妈妈，医院也没有相关经验的医生值班。
Because the medical staff are busy with the new crown pneumonia, already overloaded, there is no time to help my mother, the hospital does not have the relevant experience doctor on duty.
听说临床上发现了很多核酸检测阴性的新冠肺炎病人，传染了护士、医生，所以我父亲现在是既没有办法完全确诊，也没有办法完全排除，两边的医院都去不了，我们就算是找方向也不知道往哪个方向努力了。
I heard that many patients with Nucleic Acid-negative pneumonia had been found clinically, infecting nurses and doctors, so my father now had neither the means to fully diagnose nor to exclude it completely.
我们其实也托人问了两三个大医院的呼吸科专家，他们看了我爸20天来的CT趋势，没有任何医生说像新冠肺炎。
We actually had two or three respiratory specialists at major hospitals who had seen my dad's CT trends for 20 days, and no doctor said it was like New Crown Pneumonia.
不是新冠肺炎反而找不到医院了。
Not a new crown pneumonia but no hospital.
我妈这几天跑了好几家非定点，想着先把管插上（进行透析前，肾病患者需要在静脉处插管以将血液引出体外和输送回体内），之后一旦有什么情况，可以及时去透析，能救一命。
My mother has been running several non-fixed points these days, trying to insert the tube (before dialysis, nephropathy patients need to be intubated in the vein to get blood out of the body and back into the body), and then, if anything, to get dialysis in time to save her life.
但是那些非定点医院，要不就是科室关门，要不大一点的没床位，小一点的没有能力和条件。
But those non-designated hospitals, or departments closed, or a small number of no beds, smaller have no capacity and conditions.
我父亲这种特殊的情况理应回到首诊医院汉口同济，我也理解它处于疫情中心，确实是没有能力收治我父亲了。
My father's special case deserves to go back to Hankou Hospital, and I understand that he is in the epicentre of the epidemic and is really incapable of treating my father.
在光谷同济，我们之前也遇到了一个很热情的年轻医生，说如果我们核酸检测结果出来了是阴性，他们这边肯定没问题的。
We've met a very enthusiastic young doctor in Light Valley who said that if our nucleic acid test results were negative, they would be fine.
结果出来后，（停顿），出于各种原因，可能不知道是什么原因，反正就是不了了之了。
After the result, (pause), for a variety of reasons, may not know what the reason is, anyway it is over.
他帮不了我们了。
He can't help us.
当时发微博我知道没有用，但是我希望尽量地让大家知道这个事情，看有一天能不能让相关的人看到，然后也帮助一下这一群人。
I knew it wasn't working, but I wanted everyone to know as much as possible about it, to see if they could see it one day and help the group.
大年二十八我发过烧，在陆军总医院排了10个小时做了CT，肺部轻微感染，现在基本好转了。
I had a fever in about twenty-eight, and I had a CT scan at the Army General Hospital for ten hours.
但是医生建议我隔离一下，所以我就自己住在我们家另外一个房子里，每天只有我妈开车带着我爸去医院。
But the doctor advised me to isolate it, so I lived in another house in our house, and my mother alone drove my father to the hospital every day.
我每天只能通过微信跟我父母了解情况。
I can only get information from my parents by micromail every day.
我爸让我千万不要去医院找他。
My dad told me never to go to the hospital to find him.
我们家以前养过宠物，所以客厅有一个摄像头，我就看着我爸爸每天都是躺在沙发上面。
We used to have pets at home, so there was a camera in the living room, and I watched my dad lying on the couch every day.
他们每天早上八点出门去医院，晚上最晚十一点才回来。
They go out to the hospital at 8 every morning and come back at the latest at 11 in the evening.
我不敢给他们打电话，因为在医院里掏出手机，会增加感染风险。
I'm afraid to call them because pulling out a cell phone in a hospital increases the risk of infection.
就是看摄像头，看他们到家了，去洗手、消毒，然后我才敢给他们打电话。
Look at the cameras, watch them get home, wash their hands, disinfect them, and then I dare to call them.
我怕他们太着急接电话，就忘记洗手了。
I was afraid they were too anxious to answer the phone and forgot to wash their hands.
其实如果不是在疫情期间，我爸这种情况如果及时地进医院做透析，做治疗，肾跟人都是可以保的，但是现在这种情况下，连透析都没有办法保证，管都插不上，所以说就没有办法。
If it weren't for the outbreak, my dad's condition would have been covered if he had been in hospital for dialysis and treatment, but in this case, dialysis could not be guaranteed, the tube could not be inserted, so there was no way.
从记事起，我父亲就有慢性肾炎了，之后一步步恶化，直到去年做了肾移植手术。
For as long as I can remember, my father had chronic nephritis, which deteriorated step by step until he had a kidney transplant last year.
我父亲一直想在海南买个房子，冬天的时候住，武汉的冬天太冷了，不适合他这种病人。
My father always wanted to buy a house in Hainan. In winter, the winter in Wuhan was too cold for a patient like him.
去年外婆大年三十去世，我们没能回父亲的老家孝感，今年因为他得病，也没能回孝感。
Last year, Grandma died in her thirtieth year, we did not return to his father's home filial feeling, this year because of his illness, also failed to return filial piety.
明年就不会感冒了，我爸就能实现海南过冬的梦想吧，我相信会的。
Next year will not catch a cold, my father will be able to achieve Hainan winter dream, I believe it will.
医护人员为病人扎针 图源新京报我们视频（编者注：2月4号晚，董雪的父母接近午夜12点才回到家里，没有找到可以插管的地方。
) Dong Xue's parents didn't come home until around 12 o'clock in the evening of Feb. 4 until they found no place to intubate.
她无法再让自己隔离下去了，决定第二天让朋友开车接她回家，她怕以后会怪自己。
Unable to isolate herself any more, she decided to let her friend drive her home the next day, fearing that she would blame herself later.
她的预感不幸成真，6号凌晨，父亲过世了。
Her premonition came true, and in the early morning of the 6th my father died.
）（为保护采访对象隐私，方回、陆帆、董雪为化名）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
To protect the privacy of the interviewee, Fang Hui, Lu Fan and Dong Xue are not enough. More wonderful stories are waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
