口罩产能全球过半，为何还是“一罩难求”？。
Mask production capacity in the world more than half, why or "a cover hard to find"?
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
1月29日，国家工信部有关负责人介绍，中国的口罩年产量占全球约50%，最大产能达每天2000多万只。
China accounts for about 50 percent of the world's annual production of masks, with a maximum capacity of more than 20 million masks a day, officials said on January 29.
根据口罩业内人士的估计，中国的实际产能肯定远超这个数字，但特殊时期，产能能否真正释放，又如何调配，都是巨大难题。
According to estimates from the mask industry, China's actual production capacity is bound to far exceed that figure, but whether and how to deploy capacity in exceptional times is a huge challenge.
记者 | 王海燕口罩生产难题：人工和原料▲▲▲大概是元旦前后吧，李刚就感受到了口罩需求的微小波动，药店和医院的用量都大了。
Ren Hai Yan Mask Production Difficulty: Artificial and Raw Materials probably around New Year's Day, Li Gang has experienced slight fluctuations in demand for masks, and has increased the use of pharmacies and hospitals.
但冬天本就是口罩销售旺季，加上每年都有流感高峰，李刚当时并未在意。
But Li Gang didn't mind that winter was the peak season for mask sales and the annual flu peak.
李刚是浙江一家医疗用品公司的管理者，他所在的公司，主要生产各类伤口敷料和护理产品，也生产医用口罩。
Li Gang is the manager of a medical supplies company in Zhejiang. His company mainly produces all kinds of wound dressings and care products, as well as medical masks.
李刚所在的公司，每年春季放假时间都在10天左右，公司很多外地工人，因此，春节前四五天开始，外地工人就陆续走了。
Li Gang's company, which has a 10-day holiday every spring, has a large number of non-resident workers, so migrant workers start to leave four or five days before the Spring Festival.
1月20日，钟南山在央视接受采访公布武汉新冠肺炎的情况时，李刚所在的工厂刚刚彻底停产。
When Zhong Nan Shan was interviewed by CCTV on January 20 to announce the state of Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia, Li Gang's factory had just shut down completely.
没两天，厂里就接到了政府的通知，要求复产，李刚他们赶紧把一些本地员工召回来，1月23日重新开工。
Two days later, the factory received a notice from the government to resume production, Li Gang they quickly recalled some of the local staff, January 23 restart.
但召集工人并不容易，一开始，疫情还不严重，很多工人都不理解，想在家过年；等到疫情变得越来越严重，工人愿意返工时，很多地方又封了路，出不来了。
But assembling workers was not easy. At first, the outbreak was not serious enough for many workers to understand and want to spend the New Year at home.
虽然招到一些新的工人，但截止目前，这家工厂的口罩产能水平，依然只能勉强达到平时的水平，也就是日产外科口罩近50万个。
Though new workers have been recruited, so far the factory has barely been able to produce enough masks, or nearly half a million Nissan surgical masks.
和李刚一样，仙桃的口罩厂管理者陈力也没有接收到疫情的信号。
Like Li Gang, Chen Li, the manager of the nectarine mask factory, received no signs of the outbreak.
仙桃离武汉100多公里，是国内有名的一次性无纺布口罩代工基地，这里的厂家，大多在1月17日之前就放假了，甚至比往年更早一些，原因是一场大雪后，当地的物流货运早早停了。
Xiantao away from Wuhan more than 100 kilometers, is a well-known disposable non-woven mask replacement base, here, most of the manufacturers before January 17, or even earlier than usual, because of a heavy snow, local logistics freight early stopped.
陈力在元旦过后还接到过一批来自某天猫店的大订单，收货目的地显示，这批货部分是销往香港的。
Chen Li also received a large order from a cat store one day after New Year's Day. The destination indicated that some of the goods were sold to Hong Kong.
当时陈力挺奇怪，但也没想太多，顺利交付后就安心放假了。
Chen Li was very strange at that time, but also did not think too much, smooth delivery of the peace of mind after the holiday.
疫情爆发后，陈力一直观望到1月26日才开工。
Chen stayed on the sidelines until January 26 after the outbreak of the outbreak.
和李刚不一样，陈力的员工大多来自仙桃当地，复工比较容易，他忧虑的是原料储备少，只够用几天，而他的喷绒布原料供应商，老板和工程师都是武汉人，因为疑似感染，双双被隔离在家了，无法开工。
Unlike Li Gang, Chen Li's staff, mostly from the peach area, is relatively easy to get back to work. He is worried about the low stock of raw materials, which will last only a few days, while his supplier of flannelette raw materials, the boss and the engineer are Wuhan people, both isolated and unable to start work because of a suspected infection.
和口罩生产商不一样，原料供应商通常都是接到订单后才生产，几乎一点库存也没有。
Unlike mask makers, suppliers of raw materials are usually ordered to produce, with almost no stocks.
陈力所在的工厂，设备是全自动化的，一线工人30来个，如果满负荷生产，日产量约在100万个左右。
Chen Li's factory, which is fully automated with around 30 front-line workers, produces about a million units a day at full capacity.
因此，对陈力来说，原料的短缺甚至比工人更致命。
Thus, for Chen Li, the shortage of raw materials is even more deadly than that of workers.
原料短缺，远在浙江的李刚也感受到了。
The raw material shortage, as far away as Li Gang in Zhejiang also felt.
李刚所在公司主要生产的是医用外科口罩，看起来简单，但需要的原材料品种很多，包括无纺布、熔喷布、滤材、耳带，甚至包装的纸箱，如今都成了问题。
Li Gang's company mainly produces medical surgical masks, which look simple, but require a wide variety of raw materials, including nonwoven fabrics, melts, filters, earrings, and even packaged cartons.
如果不是赶上春节这个特殊时间，口罩的生产并不是难题。
The production of masks would not have been a problem if it hadn't been for the special time of Spring Festival.
以业内有名的稳健医疗为例，在满负荷生产的情况下，稳健从2019年12日20到1月26日晚，就向市场供应了口罩1.089亿只，相当于每天的产量达到280多万只。
Consider the industry's well-known health-care industry, which supplied 108.9 million masks to the market from 20 December 2019 to the night of January 26, 2019, at full capacity, equivalent to more than 2.8 million daily production.
稳健的稳定供应，得益于工厂未曾停工。
Stable and steady supply, thanks to the plant not stopped.
该公司一名员工告诉我，稳健有很多医院客户，大约是2020年的头几天，武汉市场就出现了大量需求，开始倾斜性供货。
An employee of the company told me that steady has many hospital customers, about the first few days of 2020, Wuhan market appeared a large number of demand, began to tilt the supply.
事实上，根据本刊采访，武汉各大医院的发热门诊，在1月10日左右，就出现了爆满。
In fact, according to this print interview, Wuhan major hospitals of the fever clinic, around January 10, appeared full.
也正是在1月10日，稳健公司开始动员黄冈的口罩车间春节不休假，加班生产各类口罩，生产线甚至24小时不休息。
Also on January 10, the firm began to mobilize Huang Gang mask workshop Spring Festival, overtime production of various masks, even 24-hour production line.
某地排队买口罩现场1月29日，国家工信部有关负责人介绍，中国的口罩年产量占全球约50%，最大产能达每天2000多万只。
China's annual production of masks accounts for about 50 percent of the world's total, with a maximum capacity of more than 20 million masks a day, officials said on Tuesday.
但在业内人士看来，中国的口罩实际产能肯定远大于这个数字。
But in the industry's view, the actual capacity of China's masks must be much larger than this number.
中国纺织品商业协会安全健康防护用品委员会会长雷利民在接受媒体采访时也认为，随着工人、原料和物流到位，加上新的产能投入，到2月底，中国的口罩日均产能，有望达到1.8亿只，其中N95口罩约3500万只。
In an interview with the media, Rilimin, head of the China Textile Business Association's Safety and Health Protection Committee, agreed that with workers, raw materials and logistics in place and new capacity inputs, the average daily production capacity of masks in China was expected to reach 180 million by the end of February, including about 35 million N95 masks.
但他同时认为，目前企业生产状况极复杂，1.8亿产能最后能否达到，还取决于很多外部因素。
But he also said the company's current production situation is extremely complex, 180 million capacity will eventually be reached, but also depends on a number of external factors.
高企的成本▲▲▲严格来说，雷利民说的N95口罩，在中国只是一种口头说法，通常用来指代医用防护口罩，部分达到标准的海外口罩、KN型口罩。
HIGH COST. Strictly speaking, Riley Min's N95 mask is only a verbal one in China, and is often used to refer to medical masks, partially up to standard overseas masks, KN masks.
和N95口罩对应的，是一次性的医用平面口罩，分两种，普通医护口罩和医用外科口罩。
The N95 mask is a disposable medical planar mask of two types, general medical mask and medical surgical mask.
两者都要求过滤细菌的效果超过95%，但外科口罩在防水和防颗粒方面的检测标准更高。
Both require a filtering effect of more than 95%, but surgical masks are more waterproof and granular.
通常来说，即使在有资质的厂家，N95的产量也并不高，原因是这种口罩材料密度高，密闭性好，佩戴有规范，一般只在医院的一些特殊科室使用，都是固定渠道销售。
In general, even among qualified manufacturers, N95 production is low because of the high density of the mask material, its close-knit nature, its standard use and its limited use in special sections of the hospital, where it is sold through fixed channels.
海军军医大学长征医院感染科主任医师缪晓辉也告诉我，“N95一定不是给普通人准备的”。
"N95 must not be intended for ordinary people," said Dr. Muse Xiaohui, director of infection at the Long March Hospital of Naval Medical University.
在他看来，普通的健康人群，除了在人群密集场合，并没有戴口罩的必要，如果一定要戴口罩的话，建议使用一次性外科或护理口罩。
In his view, the average healthy person, except in crowded situations, does not need to wear a mask. If necessary, a disposable surgical or nursing mask is recommended.
远征 摄事实上，外科口罩既是目前消耗最大的产品，也是各大厂家的生产重点。
In fact, surgical masks are not only the biggest consumer of products, but also the production focus of major manufacturers.
但普通外科口罩的生产，涉及到资质和成本问题。
But the production of general surgical masks raises questions about qualifications and costs.
来自仙桃的陈力告诉我，他们平时生产的三层一次性口罩，主要供应电子厂、食品厂等工厂车间，用于防飞沫，既外销，也出口。
Chen Li from the peach told me that they usually produce three-layer disposable masks, mainly supply electronics factories, food factories and other factory workshops, used to prevent droplets, both for export and for export.
根据客户要求，他们采用的是和医用外科口罩同标准的无纺布、喷绒布和高效滤材，但缺少灭菌环节。
According to customer requirements, they use the same standards as medical surgical masks non-woven cloth, flannelette and high-efficiency filters, but lack sterilization links.
灭菌环节指的是，口罩生产为成品后，要整体打包放入消毒柜，用环氧乙烷多次灭菌。
Sterilization refers to the production of masks as a finished product, to be packaged into a disinfectant cabinet, with ethylene oxide repeatedly sterilization.
为了灭菌后含硫类物质能够挥发出来，新的细菌又无法进入，医用外科口罩必须使用一种纸塑材料进行特殊包装，这种外包装甚至比口罩本身的价格还要高。
To sterilize and volatilize sulfur-containing substances and prevent the entry of new bacteria, medical surgical masks must be specially packaged in a paper-plastic material that is even more expensive than the mask itself.
因此，如果严格遵循灭菌标准的话，成本会大幅上升。
As a result, costs would rise sharply if sterilization standards were strictly adhered to.
陈力的客户中，也有人要求严格灭菌，通常会单独定价。
Chen Li's customers, there are also strict requirements for sterilization, usually pricing separately.
灭菌后的产品，陈力曾经送去做过检测，能够达到医疗标准，但他们最后还是放弃了申请资质，原因是医疗器材售卖的资质壁垒高，他们没有渠道，只能通过中间代理商接触医院，而大多数医院采用的都是采购制，有严格的成本审核制度。
Chen Li had been sent to be tested and tested to meet medical standards, but they eventually dropped their qualification because of the high qualification barriers to the sale of medical equipment and their lack of access to hospitals through intermediary agents, most of which operate on a procurement basis and have a strict cost-checking system.
在有中间渠道的情况下，本来薄利的厂家，就更难赚钱了。
In the case of intermediary channels, originally thin profit manufacturers, it is more difficult to make money.
根据陈力的了解，当地很多有医疗资质的厂家，未必在生产产品，而没有资质的厂家，却很多都在代工做贴牌，这种行业复杂性也加剧了产能释放的难度。
According to Chen Li's understanding, many of the local medical qualification manufacturers, not necessarily in the production of products, but many are not qualified manufacturers, but many are working as contractors, this industry complexity also exacerbated the difficulties of capacity release.
某电商平台上的口罩已全部售空作为有资质的公司，李刚的公司在1月27日，向当地银行紧急贷款2000万，用以购买设备，扩大产能，主要就是用于生产医用外科口罩。
On January 27, Li Gang's company made an emergency loan of 20 million dollars to local banks to purchase equipment and expand production capacity, mainly for the production of medical surgical masks.
李刚说，工厂目前已接受政府统一调配，价格与疫情前相当。
Li Gang said the factory has now accepted the government's unified deployment, the price is the same as before the outbreak.
作为上市公司，他们暂时还不想考虑利润和扩大产能的成本。
As listed companies, they don't yet want to consider profits and the cost of expanding production capacity.
但这一举动，其它口罩企业很难模仿和跟随。
But this move, other mask companies are difficult to copy and follow.
口罩行业属于小商品制造，工艺简单，竞争门槛不高，利润只有10%左右，其整体产能，是靠众多中小型工厂聚沙成塔累积起来的，而一些中小型厂家已经开始感到生产困难。
The mask industry is a small commodity, simple technology, competition threshold is not high, profit is only about 10%, its overall production capacity, a large number of small and medium-sized factories have accumulated, and some small and medium-sized manufacturers have begun to feel production difficulties.
吴皓月是湖北某县的一家口罩厂商，产品和陈力的工厂相似，成品和医用外科口罩使用同标准材料，但没有灭菌，平时偶尔也卖给当地的卫生院。
Wu Haoyue is a mask manufacturer in a county in Hubei Province. The products are similar to Chen Li's. The finished products and surgical masks use the same standard materials but are not sterilized.
1月20日，当地政府找到一些厂家，洽谈口罩调配问题，吴皓月是积极响应者之一。
On January 20, local authorities found a number of manufacturers to negotiate the deployment of masks, Wu Haoyue is one of the active responders.
因此，春节期间，他的工厂一天也没有放假，一直在满负荷生产，产品都交由政府统一调配。
Therefore, during the Spring Festival, his factory also did not have a day off, has been producing at full capacity, the product has been handed over to the government unified deployment.
截至目前，还没人跟他谈过价格，他自己也没谈，“他们拿去捐也行，卖也行，（垫资）几百万还在可接受范围内”。
So far, no one has talked to him about the price, and he hasn't talked about it himself. "They can give, they can sell, and millions are within acceptable limits."
与之相对应的是，吴皓月目前的生产成本是平时的3到5倍，“平时工人100多元一天，现在500元一天都找不到，技术方面的1000元一天都找不到，核心技术方面的，2000元一天都找不到人。
On the other hand, Wu Hao-yue's current production cost is three to five times that of normal weeks.On average, workers spend more than 100 yuan a day, but now they can't find 500 yuan a day.
”这意味着，吴皓月的工厂每天开支在二三十万。
That means that Wu Haoyue's factory spends 200,000 or 300,000 a day.
吴皓月在接到采访电话后，反复申明，不想实名出现在新闻里。
Wu Haoyue received the telephone interview, repeatedly affirmed that do not want to appear in the real name in the news.
他说，自己和工人已经超负荷连续工作10多天了，非常累，压力非常大，只希望疫情尽快结束。
He said he and his workers have been overworked for more than 10 days, very tired, very stressed, just hope that the epidemic will end soon.
根据2月2日工信部的公开信息，自1月21日以来，全国口罩产能，目前恢复率为60%，按照工信部此前的数据，这意味着，国内企业现在起码每天能够生产口罩1200万个。
According to a February 2 release from the Ministry of Industry and Communications, national mask production has been recovering at 60 per cent since January 21, meaning domestic companies can now produce at least 12 million masks a day, according to the ministry's previous figures.
物资统一调配▲▲▲随着口罩产能逐渐恢复，民间募捐团队则渐渐退出物资调配。
Material unity with the recovery of the mask production capacity, the private fundraising team gradually out of the material deployment.
2月1日晚，武汉人何圆圆在一个数百人的微信群里宣布，停止接受募捐。
On the night of Feb. 1, Mr. He Yuan, an Wuhan resident, announced in a crowd of hundreds of people that he would stop accepting donations.
10天前的1月23日，何园园在朋友圈看到医院紧缺物资，便顺手联系了一个朋友。
Ten days ago, on January 23, He Yuan Yuan saw a shortage of hospital supplies in his circle of friends and contacted a friend.
这个朋友在常州，认识一家医疗器械公司的老板，帮忙购买了1万5千个医用外科口罩。
The friend met the owner of a medical-device company in Changzhou and helped buy 15,000 medical surgical masks.
这批物资的顺利对接让何园园大喜过望，迅速开通了一个微信群，组织起一个民间团队，专门为医院募捐和协调物资。
The smooth docking of the materials delighted He Yuan Yuan, and he quickly opened a small group of people to organize a civil team dedicated to fund-raising and coordinating supplies for the hospital.
何园园的团队里，有人募款，有人找货，还有人运输，何园园和另外四个人属于寻找货源的小组。
There were fund-raisers, people looking for goods, people transporting people, Horticultural Garden and four other people in the group looking for supplies.
等真到了找货的时候，何园园才发现，第一次的成功纯属偶然。
When it came time to look for goods, He Yuan Garden found that the first success was purely accidental.
他们首先查找了具有医疗生产资质的厂家，发现主要集中在江苏和山东。
They first looked for qualified manufacturers of medical production, found mainly in Jiangsu and Shandong.
1月24日、25日两天，何园园联系了数百个山东济宁的厂家，结果大多数无人接听，接听的厂家都说还没开工，要正月初八才开工，存货已经清空了。
On January 24 and 25, He Yuan Garden contacted hundreds of factories in Jinning, Shandong Province. As a result, most of the factories have not answered.
远征 摄1月26日左右，何园园了解到，济宁的一些厂家已经开工了，赶紧联系，但厂家的普遍反馈是，产品已被当地政府调用了，无法售卖给私人渠道。
On or about January 26, He Yuan Garden learned that some of the Jinning factories have started to contact, but the general feedback from the manufacturers is that the products have been mobilized by the local government, can not be sold to private channels.
为了找货，何园园还添加了很多个微信群，只要看到有人有货，立马就联系。
In order to find goods, He Yuan Garden also added a lot of micro-groups, as soon as you see someone has goods, contact immediately.
最终，她只找到了两批N95口罩，一批400个，是她朋友从阿联酋人肉帮她背回来的。
Eventually, she found only two batches of N95 masks, a batch of 400 that her friend had brought back from the Emirates.
另一批是春节前就向仙桃一个厂家订购的，本来订的是3000个，但1月31日真正出货后，厂家说已经被政府调用了，无法兑现。
Another batch was ordered from a Xiantao factory before the Spring Festival. The original order was 3000, but after the actual shipment on Jan. 31, the factory said it had been transferred by the government and could not be realized.
何园园反复说服，厂家才想方设法她运出了2000个。
He Yuan Yuan repeatedly persuasion, the factory just managed to she shipped 2, 000.
这批N95的口罩15元一个，是疫情爆发前的3倍，考虑到厂家成本上涨，何园园能接受这个价格。
The N95 masks cost 15 yuan each, three times as much as before the outbreak of the outbreak. He Yuan can accept the price given the increase in factory costs.
事实上，厂家最后愿意想办法运出货来，是因为何园园拿到了医院的接收文件，保证最快速度将口罩送达医院。
In fact, the factory is finally willing to find a way to ship the goods, because He Yuan Garden received the hospital documents, to ensure that the fastest speed to the hospital to the mask.
这也是她能从厂家买到的最后一批货。
This was the last batch she could buy from the manufacturer.
何园园后来算了算，为了拿到这两批货，她前后跟上百个人打过交道。
He Yuan Yuan later calculated that she had dealt with hundreds of people before and after getting the two shipments.
相比起来，来自北京的一个企业捐赠团队收获更小，这个团队的采购人员告诉我，从1月24日了解到医院物资告急以后，他们就开始联络药企和厂家，一共联系了全国77家口罩厂家，数十家经销商，但得到的答复都是，N95口罩已被政府接管，需要优先供给湖北，不对私人和企业出售。
In contrast, a corporate donation team from Beijing has made even smaller gains, and the team's procurement staff told me that they had contacted 77 mask manufacturers and dozens of dealers across the country since they learned of the crisis on January 24, but were told that N95 masks had been taken over by the government and needed to be given priority over private and corporate sales.
这和我采访的其它原料厂、口罩厂、国家背景的采购团队，得到的口径是一致的。
This is the same calibre as the other factories I interviewed, the mask factory, the country background procurement team.
但截止目前，尚没有公开信息显示，全国的口罩在政府统一调配下，到底是如何分配和运输的。
But so far, there is no public information on how masks are distributed and transported across the country under a unified government arrangement.
就在何园园停止募捐前不久，我在朋友圈里看到，武汉金银潭医院也开始向社会公开募集物资，募集的物资包括医用外科口罩、N95口罩、普通医用口罩、医用防护服、一次性手术衣、防护面罩、防冲击眼罩和一次性圆帽。
Shortly before he stopped collecting money, I saw in my circle of friends that Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital had started to collect materials from the public, including medical surgical masks, N95 masks, ordinary medical masks, medical protective clothing, disposable surgical clothes, protective masks, impact masks and disposable caps.
该院的一名医护人员告诉我，从1月31日起，他们进入一般污染区时，已经没有N95口罩可用。
A hospital paramedic told me that they had no N95 face masks available when they entered the general contaminated area on 31 January.
作为武汉市最早收治新冠肺炎患者的定点医院，金银潭医院收治的，通常都是确诊重症患者。
As one of the earliest designated hospitals in Wuhan to treat patients with Xinguan Pneumonia, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital is usually admitted to patients with severe illness.
此前，该院医护人员告诉我，因为面临的情况复杂，政府此前一直对他们优先供给。
Earlier, the hospital's paramedics told me the government had given them priority because of the complexity of the situation.
（文中人物皆为化名）作者档案王海燕三联记者，比较喜欢采访，偶尔也喜欢写稿26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信公众号：解放路97号（jm-freetree）请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
wang haiyan reporter, like to interview, occasionally like to write 26 minutes ago Lifei Weizhen personal news public number: 97 Jiefang Road, Wuhan New Coronet Pneumonia Series. The copyright of this article belongs to the three Lifestyle Weekly.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
嘉木木。
Carpentry wood.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩产能全球过半，为何还是“一罩难求”？。
Mask production capacity in the world more than half, why or "a cover hard to find"?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩产能全球过半，为何还是“一罩难求”？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; Why & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "特殊时期，产能能否真正释放，又如何调配，都是巨大难题。
var msg _ desc = & quot; whether and how capacity was actually released at a particular time is a big challenge.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
