武汉抗“疫”27日考：追忆那些被贻误的宝贵时机-中经实时报-中国经营网。
Wuhan Anti-Plague 27: Recall those precious opportunities that have been delayed - Zhongjing Times - China Business Network.
首页。
Home page.
推荐。
Recommendation.
图说视频经济公司金融专栏智库人文活动中经实时报 。
Picture says video economy company financial column think tank humanistic activities in Reality Times.
首页>中经实时报>正文。
Home & gt; Text by Zhongjing Times & gt;
武汉抗“疫”27日考：追忆那些被贻误的宝贵时机。
Wuhan anti-" epidemic "27 test: to recall those who were delayed valuable opportunity.
作者：张家振 来源：中国经营网。
Authors: Zhang Jiazhenyuan: China Operations Network.
本报记者 张家振 武汉报道（武汉抗“疫”一线的逆行者。
Our reporter Zhang Jiazhen Wuhan reported (Wuhan anti-" epidemic "the first line of the inverse.
）1月24日，除夕夜。
) January 24, New Year's Eve.
39岁的张琴（化名）和丈夫余东（化名）在治愈出院后，选择了留在武汉和家人一起迎接鼠年新春的到来。
Zhang Qin (alias) and her husband Yu Dong (alias), 39 years old, chose to stay in Wuhan to greet the arrival of the new year of the mouse with their families.
作为一名在武汉华南海鲜批发市场上班的普通打工者，张琴是“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎”最早的一批确诊患者之一。
As an ordinary migrant worker working at the Wuhan South China Wholesale Seafood Market, Zhang Qin was one of the first patients diagnosed with pneumonia due to the new coronavirus infection.
张琴也是目前42个治愈出院的幸运者之一。
Zhang Qin is also one of the 42 lucky people who have been cured and discharged.
与此同时，在武汉各大医院抗“疫”战线还有万千医护人员奋战在一线。
At the same time, the major hospitals in Wuhan against the "epidemic" front and thousands of medical personnel fighting in the front line.
一场与时间赛跑的“无烟战争”已然打响，全国驰援、志愿服务也在快速推进。
A "smoke-free war" against time has begun, and national solidarity and volunteerism are advancing apace.
武汉这场抗“疫”之战至今已历经27天，《中国经营报》记者自武汉卫健委文件下发的次日深入华南海鲜批发市场、武汉市金银潭医院（武汉市医疗救治中心）等第一时间接触市场商户、确诊患者家属和奋战在医院的医护人员，试图通过还原一些鲜为人知的过程，追忆那些被贻误的宝贵时机。
Wuhan against "epidemic" has gone through 27 days, "China Business Daily" reporters from Wuhan Wei Bodyguard documents issued the next day into the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, Wuhan City (Wuhan City Medical Treatment Center) and other first-time contact with market merchants, family members of confirmed patients and hospital staff, try to restore some little-known process, recall those precious missed opportunities.
风暴来临前的平静这场发端于华中重镇武汉、迅速波及全国的疫情，发展速度出乎很多人的预料。
The calm before the storm began in central China, Wuhan, quickly spread across the country's epidemic, the pace of development beyond many people's expectations.
风暴肇始于2019年末。
The storm began in late 2019.
2019年12月30日下午，武汉市卫健委下发的一则《关于报送不明原因肺炎救治情况的紧急通知》（以下简称“《紧急通知》”）引发社会关注，也让华南海鲜批发市场这个位于武汉市汉口闹市、隐没在高楼大厦中的低矮市场，成为“新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎”波及全国的“风暴眼”。
On the afternoon of December 30, 2019, Wuhan Health Committee issued an "Emergency Notice on the Treatment of Unspecified Causes of Pneumonia" (hereinafter referred to as "emergency notice"), also caused public concern and made the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, a low-rise market hidden in a high-rise building in Hankou City, Wuhan.
这个华中地区规模最大的海鲜市场，有商铺千余家，面积达5万平方米。
This is the largest seafood market in central China, with more than 1,000 shops and an area of 50,000 square meters.
武汉市卫健委下发《紧急通知》的第二天，《中国经营报》记者深入华南海鲜批发市场内部看到，市场商户还在正常经营，不时有市民购买海鲜、猪肉等产品。
The day after Wuhan City Fitness Commission issued the Emergency Notice, the China Business Daily reporter went deep into the wholesale seafood market in southern China and saw that the merchants were still operating normally and people were buying seafood, pork and other products from time to time.
（2019年12月31日，还在正常营业的华南海鲜批发市场。
(As at 31 December 2019, it is still open at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market.
摄影/本报记者 张家振）在往常，年前的这段时间是华南海鲜批发市场生意最繁忙的时候，众多商户备足了充分的货品，在保证武汉市内年货供应的同时，还向周边的各地市州发货。
Photo / Our correspondent Zhang JiazhenThis time of year was the busiest one in the South China Wholesale Seafood Market. Many merchants provided them with enough goods to ensure the supply of the new year goods in Wuhan city, but also delivered the goods to the neighboring cities and counties.
2020年1月1日清晨，一纸休业整治通知贴满了市场的各个出入口，决定对华南海鲜批发市场实行休市，进行环境卫生整治。
In the early morning of January 1, 2020, a notice of suspension filled the market's entrances and outlets, and decided to suspend the South China Seafood Wholesale Market for environmental hygiene.
当天上午，记者在现场看到，大部分商户已关门停业，还有部分商户在整理打包，准备撤出。
That morning, the reporter saw at the scene, the majority of merchants have closed down, and some merchants are packing, ready to withdraw.
多位商户表示，早上7点多就收到了关停通知，城管和公安都过来要求尽快搬离。
A number of merchants said that more than 7 a.m. on the closure of the notice, the city management and public security have come to demand as soon as possible.
同时前来的还有多位身着防护服的工作人员，逐一在商铺里用液体擦拭水产箱等，并收集采样。
At the same time, there are a number of staff wearing protective clothing, one by one in the shop with liquid wipe aquatic tank, and so on, and collect samples.
武汉市相关部门作出关停市场的决定可谓迅速。
Wuhan City relevant departments to make the decision to close the market can be described as rapid.
不过，在此后的近半个月时间里，就像暴风雪来临前一样，武汉还显得颇为平静。
But for nearly half a month, Wuhan seemed calm, as it had been before the blizzard.
这段时间，也是年终总结、年会聚会最频繁的时期，武汉市内酒店、餐馆人满为患，特别是晚间的饭局找一个像样的包房需要提前多天才能协调预订。
This is also the end of the year summary, the most frequent annual gathering period, Wuhan City hotels, restaurants full, especially at night to find a decent room to find a number of days in advance to coordinate booking.
1月18日，南方的小年夜。
18 January, New Year's Eve in the South.
按赵玉笛的计划，这一天晚上他要喊上在武汉最要好的一些朋友，庆祝乔迁之喜，顺便做个“年终总结”，然后各自回老家过年。
According to Zhao's plan, he was going to call on some of his best friends in Wuhan that evening to celebrate Qiao's move, take a "year-end summary," and then return home for the New Year.
不过，市内酒店的火爆程度超出他的想象。
But the hotel in the city was hotter than he could have imagined.
赵玉笛告诉记者，他提前两天到新房门口的简朴寨酒店订包房，服务员告知晚上的包房早就预订完了，只剩当天中午的一个包间还没有订出去。
Zhao told reporters that he booked a room two days in advance at the simple Zhai hotel in front of the new house. The waitress told him that the room had already been reserved for the evening and only one room for noon had not yet been booked.
赵玉笛又去附近找了几家酒店也都给出了没有包房的答复。
Zhao Yudi went to a few hotels nearby and gave an answer that there were no rooms available.
“没办法只能临时通知把饭局改到了当天中午，订下了简朴寨最后一个午间档包房。
"There was no choice but to reschedule the meal to midday on short notice and order the last lunch in the shanzhai.
”赵玉笛表示，当天中午酒店大厅也是爆满，亲朋好友聚会的特别多。
Zhao said the hotel lobby was also full at noon, with a particularly high number of family and friends getting together.
同样是1月18日，一年一度、热闹非凡的百步亭社区“万家宴”，也并没有因为肺炎疫情而中断。
Also January 18, the annual, bustling hundred-foot-pavilion community "ten thousand feasts", has not been interrupted by the pneumonia epidemic.
据媒体报道，江岸区百步亭社区举办“万家宴”活动，4万多名居民端出13986道菜品，摆满党群活动中心主会场和9个分会场。
More than 40,000 residents served 13,986 dishes at the main venue and nine branches of the Party Center, according to media reports.
这是百步亭社区“万家宴”连续举办的第20个年头。
It was the 20th consecutive year of the "Banquet" held by the 100-foot-Ting community.
而江岸区百步亭社区与江汉区华南海鲜批发市场间的直线距离不超过8公里。
However, the distance between the Bumbuting community and the South China Seafood Wholesale Market in Jianghan District is not more than 8 km.
“今年之所以继续举办这个活动，是基于之前我们对这一次疫情传播是人与人之间有限性传播的这个判断，所以对这件事预警不够。
"The reason we continue to hold this event this year is because we did not have enough warning because of our previous judgment that the spread of the epidemic is a limited spread between people.
”武汉市市长周先旺在接受总台央视记者专访时表示，这一次百步亭聚集活动，虽然目前还没有交叉感染的情况，但确实给我们敲响了警钟。
In an interview with CCTV, Wuhan Mayor Zhou Xianwang said the gathering, although there was no cross-infection, did give us a wake-up call.
本报记者梳理武汉市卫健委通报发现，这段时间官方口径对外发布的信息也颇为平静，在1月5日前仅有的3则通报中，“初步调查表明，未发现明显的人传人证据，未发现医务人员感染”成为数据更新外的关键词。
The reporter combed Wuhan city health committee reported that the official-caliber information released during this period is also quite calm, in the only three circulars before January 5, "preliminary investigation showed that no obvious evidence of human-to-human transmission, no infection of medical personnel" became the keyword outside of the data update.
（武汉市金银潭医院住院部南楼四楼隔离病房的医护人员。
(Medical staff of the fourth floor isolation ward of the inpatient department.
摄影/本报记者 张家振）被贻误的时机1月5日至10日，是武汉市卫健委对外通报的“空窗期”，没有对外通报最新情况。
Photo / reporter Zhang Jiazhen was delayed January 5 to 10, Wuhan City Health Commission reported the "empty window period," did not inform the outside world of the latest situation.
1月11日，武汉市卫健委重启情况通报，直到1月19日之前，“我市无新增新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例”成为新的关键词。
On January 11, Wuhan health committee restarted the briefing, until January 19, "no new cases of coronavirus infection pneumonia in our city" has become a new keyword.
记者梳理发现，随着疫情发展，武汉市卫健委对外通报的频率和口径也出现了细微变化。
Reporters carded to find that, along with the development of the epidemic, Wuhan Health Commission reported to the outside frequency and caliber has also changed slightly.
在通报频率方面，从1月11日开始变为一日一通报，在口径方面也从此前的“未见明显人传人”改为“不排除有限人传人的可能，但持续人传人的风险较低”。
In terms of frequency of communication, from 11 January to 1 day notification, also from the previous "no apparent person-to-person" to "do not exclude the possibility of limited human-to-human transmission, but the risk of continuous human-to-human transmission is lower."
这段时间，武汉市和湖北省两会在武汉相继召开。
During this period, Wuhan and Hubei provinces held their congresses in Wuhan one after another.
据《中国新闻周刊》报道，武汉协和医院的医生林羽回忆说，疫情刚开始的时候，武汉市的策略都是“冷处理”。
According to China News Weekly, Lin Yu, a doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, recalled that when the outbreak began, Wuhan's strategy was "cold-dealing."
他所在的医院就通知，在没有单位授权的时候，不允许私自在公众平台谈论病情，不允许私自接受媒体采访，不仅仅是临床系统，包括院感、CDC那边消息管控更严格，“整个就不让说”。
His hospital announced that he would not be allowed to talk about his illness on a public platform, or to interview the media without permission, not just the clinical system, including the hospital feeling, the CDC side of the news control more stringent, "the whole no talk.
也有一线医护人员向记者证实，前期确实没料到疫情会发展这么迅速和严重。
There are also front-line medical staff confirmed to reporters, the previous period did not expect the epidemic to develop so quickly and seriously.
一位不愿具名的医生告诉记者：“一开始我们也没有采取戴口罩等防护措施，大概是在1月17日左右才发现问题不对，提高了警惕。
"We didn't take protective measures, such as wearing masks, at first, but we didn't notice the problem until around January 17," a doctor who declined to be named told reporters
”据一位医生家属介绍：“在1月17日晚上，在医院工作的医生才告诫我们出门一定戴口罩、勤洗手，说‘现在情况不对，形势很紧张，不知道啥时候才会告诫全市市民’。
"It was only on the night of January 17 that the doctors at the hospital told us to go out and wash our hands frequently, saying, 'Things are not right now, the situation is tense and we don't know when to warn the whole city.
”1月2日、3日，疫情刚开始发酵的时候，《中国经营报》记者曾连续两天蹲守武汉市金银潭医院住院部南楼。
On January 2 and 3, just as the outbreak began to ferment, the China Business Daily reporter squatted for two days on the south wing of the hospital in Wuhan.
华南海鲜批发市场最早一批确诊患者被统一隔离在该楼四楼治疗，部分其他医院转过来的轻度患者则住在六楼。
The first group of confirmed patients at the South China Wholesale Seafood Market were quarantined on the fourth floor of the building, while mildly ill patients transferred from some other hospitals stayed on the sixth floor.
记者在住院部南楼内部观察了解到，除四楼、六楼集中收治患者外，五楼也被腾空备用，尚没有收治患者，而该楼的一至三楼为流感科和流感病房，还有众多普通感冒发烧患者在这里治疗。
The reporter observed inside the south wing of the inpatient department that, in addition to the patients on the fourth and sixth floors, the fifth floor had been vacated and no patients had been admitted to the hospital.
（1月2日，腾空备用的金银潭医院住院部南楼五楼。
(On 2 January, the reserve Gold and Silver Pool Hospital was vacated on the fifth floor of the South Wing.
摄影/本报记者 张家振）这两天，包括本报在内的多家媒体记者在武汉市金银潭医院采访期间也受到了阻力。
Photo / our reporter Zhang Jiazhen) Over the past two days, a number of media reporters, including this newspaper, have encountered resistance during interviews at the Gold and Silver Pool Hospital in Wuhan.
1月2日下午，某媒体记者扛着摄像机前往医院住院部南楼采集视频信息并采访患者家属，立刻引起医院安保人员警觉，一位保安同样要求本报记者删除手机中的所有采访内容，记者躲入车内反锁车门才得以脱身。
On January 2 afternoon, a media reporter carrying a video camera to the South Building of the Hospital Department to collect video information and interview the patient's family immediately alerted hospital security personnel. A security guard also asked the reporter to delete all the interview contents of the mobile phone.
媒体记者与患者家属交流也受到监视、阻止。
Communication between media journalists and patients' families was also monitored and prevented.
本报记者与一位患者家属的交流在记者的车内才得以顺利进行。
This reporter and a patient's family exchanges in the reporter's car was able to go smoothly.
另一个令人难忘的细节是，记者前往医院行政楼宣传科求证患者收治信息和诊疗安排，在得到“信息统一由武汉市卫健委对外发布”的答复后，该科派出一位年轻的女性工作人员盯防，并要求记者离开院区。
Another memorable detail is that the reporter went to the Propaganda Section of the Hospital Administration Building to check on patient admission information and consultation arrangements. After receiving a reply from the "Unified Information Issued by Wuhan Health Care Commission," the Section posted a young female staff member and asked the reporters to leave the compound.
此后，在该院行政人员和保安人员干预下，包括本报记者在内的多家媒体记者被以核实身份为由带到警务室，并记录下了媒体单位和姓名、联系方式等信息。
Subsequently, following the intervention of the administrative and security personnel of the hospital, a number of media journalists, including our correspondent, were taken to the police station on the grounds of identity verification and information such as names and contact details of media outlets was recorded.
在该院宣传科负责人介入下，记者最终离开。
With the intervention of the Head of the Propaganda Section, the journalist eventually left.
（在武汉市金银潭医院警务室，多位媒体记者遭留置、盘查。
(At the police station of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, a number of journalists were detained and questioned.
）根据武汉市卫健委当时的通报，疫情发展尚在“可防可控”范围内。
According to the Wuhan Health Commission at the time, the epidemic is still in the "preventable controllable" range.
在武汉市共有确诊患者44例，其中重症11例，接受医学观察的密切观察者有121名。
There were 44 confirmed cases in Wuhan, of which 11 were severe, and 121 were under medical observation.
“当时并没有预料到疫情会这么严重，医院的其他门诊和病房还都正常向社会开放，除肺炎患者集中的四楼和六楼出入口严格隔离外，并没有其他隔离措施。
"It was not anticipated that the outbreak would be so severe that other out-patient clinics and wards in the hospital were still open to the public, and there was no isolation except for the fourth and sixth floors, where pneumonia patients were concentrated.
”一位在四楼病房接受隔离治疗的郑姓患者家属告诉记者。
A family member of Zheng, who was treated in isolation on the fourth floor, told reporters.
记者在采访期间也发现，彼时金银潭医院还有众多普通流感发热患者。
During the interview, the reporter also found that the gold and silver pool hospital at that time there were many common flu fever patients.
多位额头贴有退热贴的小孩被家长抱着穿梭在门诊楼和住院部之间。
Many children with antifebrile patches on their foreheads were carried by their parents between the outpatient and inpatient buildings.
据郑姓患者家属介绍，其丈夫今年69岁，经常去华南海鲜市场采购货品后统一发往荆州，大概每天都要去拿货，最早于2019年12月12日开始发烧，经同济医院检查，“初步诊断为重症病毒性肺炎”，后于2019年12月31日转入武汉市金银潭医院集中治疗。
According to family members of Zheng Jiaomei, her husband, 69 years old, often went to the seafood market in southern China to buy goods and send them to Jingzhou every day. He started to have a fever as early as December 12, 2019.
“刚转过来的第一天，患者家属还允许进入病房，后来门口贴上了告示才不允许进入病房，让家属每天下午3点至4点集中（把物品）送过来在门口交给医护人员。
"On the first day of the transfer, the patient's family was allowed to enter the ward, and signs were put up at the door to prevent them from entering the ward, and to have their families gather from 3 to 4 p.m. every day (to bring things) and deliver them to the paramedics at the door.
”该患者家属回忆称，感觉从一开始的防控就有些懈怠了。
The patient's family recalls feeling a bit slackened from the start.
在此期间，武汉市民虽然会谈论肺炎疫情的状况，但还远没有到“谈疫色变”的程度，街头也很少能看到戴口罩的市民。
In the meantime, Wuhan city residents will talk about the pneumonia epidemic, but far from "talk about the epidemic", the street can rarely see people wearing masks.
和往常相比，疫情似有似无地存在着，持续多日通报没有新增病例，没有明显的人传人证据，让大多数武汉人坚信疫情很快会得到控制，他们的平静生活并没有受到太多打扰。
Compared to the usual, the epidemic seems to exist, with no new cases reported for days, no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission, leaving most Wuhan people convinced that the outbreak will soon be contained and that their peaceful lives are not much disturbed.
值得注意的是，从1月19日开始，在武汉市卫健委对外通报中，新增病例快速攀升。
It is noteworthy that from January 19, Wuhan City Health Commission in the external notification, the number of new cases increased rapidly.
1月17日至20日， 武汉新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例分别新增17例、59例、77例和60例。
From January 17 to 20, 17 new cases of coronavirus infection in Wuhan were confirmed, including 17 cases, 59 cases, 77 cases and 60 cases respectively.
直到1月22日，武汉市卫健委发布《工作提示》，全省新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎情况由湖北省卫生健康部门发布，武汉市卫健委不再发布全市新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎情况。
Until January 22, Wuhan Health Care Commission issued "Work Tips," the province's new coronavirus infection pneumonia issued by the Hubei Province Health Department, Wuhan Health Commission no longer issued the city of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia.
就这样，居住有超过1000万名常住人口和几百万名流动人口和近百万名大学生的武汉市，在农历鼠年到来之前，度过了一段平静如常的生活，直到一场风暴迅猛袭来。
Thus, Wuhan, home to more than 10 million residents, millions of migrants and nearly a million college students, led a quiet and normal life before the Chinese Year of the Rat until a storm hit.
是疫情自身发展传播得太快，还是在看似平静中贻误了风暴来临前的“黄金窗口期”？相信时间会给出答案。
Is the epidemic spreading itself too quickly, or is it delaying the "golden window" before the storm seems to be calming? I believe time will tell.
前线匮乏的物资形势急转而下的转折出现在1月19日之后。
After January 19, the material situation on the front lines turned sharply downward.
这天以中国工程院院士、国家呼吸系统疾病临床医学研究中心主任钟南山为代表的国家卫健委高级别专家组来到武汉指导调研疫情防控工作。
Represented by Zhong Nan Shan, academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and director of the National Clinical Research Center for Respiratory Diseases, a high-level group of health experts came to Wuhan to guide research on disease prevention and control.
1月20日晚，钟南山在接受央视主持人白岩松连线采访中明确表示，新型冠状病毒肺炎肯定存在人传人的现象，并首度向外披露“14个医务人员的感染”。
In an interview with CCTV host Bai Yansong on the evening of January 20, Zhong Nan Shan made it clear that there must be human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus pneumonia, and disclosed the "infection of 14 medical personnel" for the first time.
而1月21日凌晨近2点，武汉市卫生健康委通过健康武汉官微证实，武汉市共有15名医务人员确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例，另有1名为疑似病例。
On January 21, at nearly 2 a.m., Wuhan Health Commission confirmed through health officials that Wuhan City, a total of 15 medical staff diagnosed as a new coronavirus infection pneumonia, and a suspected case.
而事实上，1月20日白天，在钟南山对外披露这一信息之前，协和医院的医生就明确得到了医护人员被感染的信息，“医院有十几个医护人员感染了，收了个病人把病房工作人员‘一传十’了”，并告诫其家属尽量别去医院附近。
In fact, by day, Jan. 20, before Zhong Nan-shan disclosed the information, doctors at Concorde Hospital had clear information about the spread of the infection. "About a dozen hospital staff were infected, a patient passed on the ward staff," and told his family not to go near the hospital.
“出现人传人和医务人员感染的情况，是非常重要的标志。
"The presence of human-to-human transmission and infection of medical personnel is a very important indicator.
”钟南山建议，出门随时佩戴口罩，近期尽量避免前往武汉。
Mr Zhong suggests wearing a mask whenever you go out and avoid going to Wuhan in the near future.
也就是从1月21日起，武汉市民开始前往药店等争相购买口罩。
That is, from January 21, Wuhan began to go to pharmacies and other competing to buy masks.
这一天，记者在位于武汉市东湖新技术开发区民族大道沿线的多家药店看到，前来购买口罩的市民络绎不绝，但多家药店已脱销。
On this day, the reporter located in Wuhan Donghu New Technology Development Zone along the ethnic boulevard along a number of pharmacies to see people coming to buy a stream of people, but many pharmacies have been sold out.
记者当天中午在这家药店观察的10多分钟时间里，有至少6位市民询问有没有口罩。
At least six people asked if they had a mask during a 10-minute visit to the drugstore at noon.
随后而来的是因“封城”带来的短暂生活物资匮乏。
This was followed by a shortage of short-lived goods brought about by the "blockade."
1月23日中午11点左右，一位留在武汉过年的市民告诉记者，上午在位于武汉市洪山区团结大道金地广场的永旺超市挤满了前来采购年货的市民。
At around 11: 00 noon on January 23, a resident who stayed in Wuhan for the New Year told reporters that the Yongwang Supermarket, located in Jindi Plaza on Unity Avenue in Hongshan District of Wuhan City, was full of people coming to buy new year goods.
其发来的现场照片和视频显示，有部分货架的商品已基本被拿空，超市收银处有众多市民在排队。
Photographs and videos from the store showed that some of the items on the shelves had been emptied and that there were a large number of people queuing up at the supermarket checkout counter.
“超市里不停地广播说今天不打烊，让大家理性选购，货架补货也很快。
"The ceaseless broadcast in the supermarket says today does not close, lets everybody buy rationally, shelf replenishes the goods also very quickly.
”上述市民表示。
"said the citizen.
和口罩、蔬菜等生活物资短缺相比，武汉市内多家发热门诊定点医院和周边地市医疗机构物资匮乏更让人担忧。
Compared with the shortage of masks, vegetables and other living materials, the shortage of materials in many hospitals in Wuhan and nearby cities is even more worrying.
1月22日，武汉市卫健委向社会公布武汉市汉口医院、市红十字会医院、市七医院、市四医院西院区、市九医院、武昌医院、市五医院等7家发热门诊定点医院为新型冠状病毒感染的疑似病例和确诊病例收治医院。
On January 22, 2007, Wuhan Health Care Commission announced to the public that seven fever outpatient clinics, including Hankou Hospital, City Red Cross Hospital, City Seven Hospital, Western Hospital Area of City IV Hospital, City Nine Hospital, Wuchang Hospital and City Five Hospital, were admitted to hospitals for the suspected and confirmed cases of the new coronavirus infection.
在1月24日除夕夜，武汉市五医院、九医院和汉口医院等多家医院的一线医护人员均向本报记者证实，医院正面临着医疗物资紧缺的现实。
On January 24 New Year's Eve, the front-line medical staff of Wuhan Five, Nine and Hankou Hospitals confirmed to the reporter that the hospital was facing a shortage of medical supplies.
“没有护目镜和防护服，甚至没有饭吃，外卖也都停了。
"There were no goggles, no protective clothing, not even food, no take-out.
”武汉市第九医院的谢青告诉记者。
Xie Qing of Wuhan Ninth Hospital told reporters.
同样奋战在防疫一线的还有武汉市第五医院护士王媛。
Also fighting in the front line of epidemic prevention Wuhan Fifth Hospital nurses Wang Yuan.
“不当英雄，也不当逃兵。
Be neither a hero nor a deserter.
”1月24日，在医院值夜班接诊发热病人的她，写下了这样的感触。
"On January 24, while on night duty at the hospital to consult a feverish patient, she wrote something like this.
工作间隙，王媛在简单吃了几口“年夜饭”后，又投入到了繁忙的工作中。
At work, Wang Yuan, after simply eating a few "New Year's Eve meals," went back to her busy work.
（奋战在抗击肺炎一线的医护人员。
(Medical staff fighting the front line of fighting pneumonia.
）一则武汉市第九医院院办的求助信息显示，现在很需要医疗物资，急缺防护服、护目镜和口罩，紧急求助各界人士捐助。
) An information note from the 9th Wuhan Hospital showed that there was a great need for medical supplies, emergency clothing, goggles and masks, and for donations.
经武汉市第九医院工作人员证实，求助电话和求助信息属实，确实存在医疗物资严重短缺情况。
Wuhan ninth hospital staff confirmed that the telephone and help information is true, there is a serious shortage of medical supplies.
除夕夜被临时调往武汉市汉口医院、主要负责照顾肺炎重症患者的护士陈倩，同样证实医院物资缺乏，口罩、防护服、饭都得不到保障，因口罩、防护服等物资急缺，这些物品使用时间超过时限，并导致没法换班，只能在一线继续坚守。
Chen Qian, a nurse who was temporarily transferred to Hankou Hospital in Wuhan on New Year's Eve to take care of patients with severe pneumonia, also confirmed the lack of hospital supplies, masks, protective clothing and meals.
让人愈加欣慰的是，全国的目光正汇集到武汉，官方和民间的八方驰援也正在进行。
It is all the more comforting that the eyes of the whole country are converging on Wuhan, and that official and non-governmental assistance is under way.
1月25日，工信部有关负责人表示，自1月23日接到联防联控机制转来武汉物资需求清单后，立即通过中央医药储备向武汉紧急调配各类应急救援物资。
On January 25, the head of the Ministry of Industry and Communications said that since receiving the list of Wuhan material needs transferred from the Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism on January 23, the Ministry of Industry and Communications had immediately dispatched various emergency relief materials to Wuhan through the central medical reserve.
截至当天中午的汇总情况，中央医药储备共调用了防护服1.4万件、医用手套11万双；通过协调紧急采购，为武汉落实各类口罩货源300万个，落实防护服货源10万件，落实护目镜2180副。
By noon of the same day, 14,000 protective suits and 110,000 pairs of medical gloves had been mobilized from the central medical reserve, and through coordinated emergency procurement, 3 million supply sources of various types of masks had been implemented in Wuhan, 100,000 protective clothing supplies had been supplied and 2,180 sets of goggles had been implemented.
相信在各方关注下，随着医疗物资和全国医护人员的紧急驰援，物资短缺及一线医护人员超负荷工作的状况或将得到彻底扭转。
We believe that the shortage of medical supplies and the overloading of frontline medical personnel will be completely reversed with the urgent assistance of medical supplies and medical personnel from all over the country.
而相关部门此前是否对疫情可能出现的恶化情况有同样的预判，并做好了充足的准备，同样值得追问。
It is also worth asking whether authorities previously had the same prejudgement and preparedness for a possible worsening of the epidemic.
坚强的互助后援“壮士出征，唯有致敬。
Strong mutual aid "Zhuang men go out, only to salute.
”1月24日深夜，在看到第二军医大学150名人民解放军医护人员从上海乘坐空军飞机直飞武汉以及陆军军医大学135名医生奔赴武汉抗击疫情的消息后，已从武汉返回老家的刘正发出了这样的感慨。
"Liu Zheng, who had returned to his hometown of Wuhan late on January 24 after seeing news of 150 PLA medical personnel flying directly from Shanghai to Wuhan by air force and 135 doctors from the Army Medical University rushing to Wuhan to fight the epidemic.
刘正是一名“新武汉人”，大学毕业后就在武汉工作生活，并安家立业。
Liu is a "new Wuhan people," after graduation from the university to work and live in Wuhan, and set up a family and business.
尽管在武汉采取“封城”措施前已回到老家山东并按要求在家自我隔离，但他仍然关心、关注着武汉这座城市抗击疫情的点点滴滴。
Although he returned to his native Shandong province and isolated himself at home before Wuhan adopted the "blockade," he is still concerned and concerned about the city's efforts to combat the epidemic.
全国的医护人员驰援还在进行。
Medical assistance is still being provided throughout the country.
同样是1月24日除夕夜，上海52家医院的136名医护人员和128名广东省援助湖北医疗队队员紧急整理行装，“逆向而行”出征武汉。
Also on New Year's Eve on January 24, 136 medical personnel from 52 hospitals in Shanghai and 128 members of the Guangdong Provincial Medical Team were given emergency treatment and packed up to go on a "reverse journey" to Wuhan.
（向武汉驰援的救援物资车辆。
Rescue material vehicles speeding up to Wuhan.
）来自武汉民间的互助支援也在进行。
Support from Wuhan people's non-governmental organizations is also under way.
“国难当头，男儿自当鼎力。
Men are the masters of their country.
”1月23日晚，一位武汉私家车主在报名参加“善缘义助武汉医疗支援车队”时这样写道，武昌，私家车一台。
On the night of January 23, a private car owner in Wuhan signed up to take part in the "Good Yuan Aid Wuhan Medical Support Team.
不求任何回报，汉街居住，有任何要求联系我。
I don't ask for anything in return. Hanjie. Contact me if you need anything.
“善缘义助武汉医疗支援车队”是武汉市民自发成立的志愿团队。
"Good Yuan to help Wuhan medical support convoys" is a voluntary team set up spontaneously by the citizens of Wuhan.
这支车队的“总调度”张小艳还在一线忙碌着，调度私家车，对接医院医护人员的用车需求。
The team's "total dispatch" Zhang Xiaoyan is still busy on the line, dispatching private cars, docking hospital medical personnel's demand for cars.
张小艳告诉记者，车队已与武汉市第四、第六、第三和第一医院以及武汉大学附属中南医院等建立起联系，并和多位医生对接接送工作。
Zhang told reporters that the team has established contact with Wuhan Fourth, Sixth, Third and First Hospitals and Wuhan University affiliated Zhongnan Hospital, and docked with many doctors.
“今天武汉停止公共交通运营后，一些出租车不太愿意接送医生，我们希望通过这种方式贡献一份自己的力量。
"Some taxis are reluctant to take doctors to Wuhan today after the suspension of public transport operations, and we hope to contribute our share in this way.
”“刚才已经带了两位医务人员成功从高速回到武汉了。
"" I've just brought two paramedics back from the freeway to Wuhan.
一位同济医院的护士，一位武汉市第一医院放射科的医生。
A nurse at Tongji Hospital and a radiologist at Wuhan First Hospital.
”“善缘义助武汉医疗支援车队”一位私家车主告诉记者，在仙桃上高速的地方给警察出示了身份证明和工作证明就放行了，在高速公路上还遇到运输救援物资的大卡车。
"A private car owner told reporters that police were given identification and work certificates at the top of the walnut highway and encountered trucks carrying relief supplies on the highway.
同样通过自发组织向医护人员提供支援保障的还有武汉人肖雅星，她主要负责对接武汉市内酒店，为医护人员免费安排酒店住宿。
Wuhan Xiao Yaxing is also responsible for docking hotels in Wuhan and arranging hotel accommodation for medical staff free of charge.
“现在有个380人的医疗大队伍还没有入住安排，我们在协调，现在人手不足。
"There's a 380-strong medical team that's not in place yet, we're co-ordinating, and we're understaffed.
”肖雅星在忙碌的间隙告诉记者。
"Xiao Yaxing told reporters during the busy interval.
武汉抗争疫情的无烟战争还在继续，并进入争分夺秒、丝毫不敢懈怠的新阶段。
Wuhan anti-epidemic smokeless war continues, and entered a new phase of time, not afraid to slacken.
武汉，并不孤单。
Wuhan is not alone.
（照片除署名外均由受访对象提供。
(Photos will be provided by the interviewee unless signed.
）（编辑：曹学平 校对：颜京宁）。
(Editing: Cao Xueping, proofread by Yan Jingning).
* 除《中国经营报》署名文章外，其他文章为作者独立观点，不代表中国经营网立场。
* Except for the articles of China Business Administration, other articles are independent views of the author and do not represent the position of China Business Network.
。
.
* 未经本网授权，任何单位及个人不得转载、摘编或以其它方式使用上述作品，违者将被追究法律责任。
* No unit or individual may reproduce, extract or otherwise use the above works without the authorization of this website. Violators will be held legally liable.
。
.
* 凡本网注明“来源：中国经营网” 或“来源：中国经营报-中国经营网”的所有作品，版权均属于中国经营网（本网另有声明的除外）。
China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network
。
.
* 如因作品内容、版权和其它问题需要同本网联系的，请在30日内进行。
If you need to contact us for details, copyright and other issues, please do so within 30 days.
。
.
* 有关作品版权事宜请联系：010-88890046 邮箱：banquan@cbnet.com.cn。
* For copyright information, please contact: 010-88890046; banquan @ cbnet.com.cn.
武汉新型肺炎 。
Wuhan new pneumonia.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
经营成就价值。
Value of business achievement.
订 阅。
Subscriptions.
最新文章。
Latest article.
金融抗“疫”|6小时设计出抗疫新产品 兴业银行“加速度”畅通金融服务绿色通道。
Financial anti-epidemic & # 44; & # 45; 6 hours to design a new product to combat the epidemic & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，商业银行作为我国金融体系的主体，采取了新增授信、延期还款、降低贷款利率等多种方式驰援..[详情]。
Since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, commercial banks, as the mainstay of our financial system, have provided new credit, deferred payments, and reduced lending rates by various means.
首开线上发布先河 小米10全力冲刺高端。
Opening line to release the first 10 millet full speed high-end.
“战疫”让以往热闹非凡的智能手机市场陷入低迷，但小米率先按下启动键。
The plague sent the formerly raucous smartphone market into a tailspin, but millet was the first to press the start button.
..[详情]。
. & # 91; Details & # 93;
金融战“疫”|“贷”动生产马力 浙商银行力促一线企业抗击疫情郑州市城乡建设局：新冠肺炎设定为“不可抗力” 防疫成本列入工程造价 。
Financial War Plague & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
热文排行。
Rank of gentiles.
大连“监狱风云”主角的商业故事。
Dalian "prison wind and cloud" protagonist's business story.
因为一篇写自己在看守所内遭遇的网文，拥有英国计算机和金融双硕士学位的张岩，让“一家人陷入麻烦中”。
Zhang Yan, who holds a double master's degree in computer science and finance, "got his family in trouble" for a piece about his encounter with the Internet in a detention centre.
...[详情]。
... # 91; Details & # 93; & # 93;
中央关注民营企业家司法权益 黄光裕非法经营罪再审或迎转机。
The central government is concerned about the rights and interests of private entrepreneurs Huang Guangyu illegal business retrial or turning the corner.
蛇与酒的秘密：王林大师以“官场魔术”报复揭秘者。
The Secret of Snake and Wine: Master Wang Lin retaliated against the informer with "Official Magic".
青岛李沧区肺炎患者系海信集团员工 全市排查来往武汉人员。
Qingdao Li Cangzheng District Pneumonia patients are Hisense Group employees to and from Wuhan.
独家|恒丰银行前董事长蔡国华被诉受贿11.87亿 另涉贪污等三项罪名。
Cai Guohua, former chairman of Hang Fung Bank, was charged with bribery - $1,187 million - and three other charges.
独家|重回武汉肺炎起点：卖野味的华南市场老板是谁？。
Back to Wuhan Pneumonia Start: Who owns the South China market that sells game?
独家|吉林省检察院检察长杨克勤被带走调查。
Inspector General Yang Keqin of Jilin Province was taken for investigation.
“绿巨人”复兴号票价秘密。
The Hulk Resurrection fares are secret.
关于我们广告合作人才招聘订阅指南联系我们版权所有记者查验侵权公告 。
About our advertising cooperation talent recruitment subscription guide contact us copyright all journalists check tort notice.
Copyright © 中国经营网 - 中国经营报社 | 京ICP备13038787号-3 | 公安备案编号：11010802015402 | 本单位常年法律顾问所：北京志霖律师事务所。
Translated Description: China Business Network - China Operating Press & # 124; Beijing ICP Rep 13038787 - 3 & # 124; Public Security Filing No.: 110802015402 & # 124; Our perennial legal adviser: Zhilin Law Office in Beijing.
。
.
中国经营报微信。
China Business News Letter.
中国经营网微信。
China runs Weixin.
