守家就是守城——武汉包子姐的除夕--专题-中国经营网。
Keeping house is keeping the city - Wuhan Baozi sister's New Year's Eve - Special topic - China Business Network.
首页。
Home page.
推荐。
Recommendation.
图说视频经济公司金融专栏智库人文活动中经实时报 。
Picture says video economy company financial column think tank humanistic activities in Reality Times.
首页>。
Home & gt;
专题。
Topics.
精选话题。
Selected topics.
二月战“疫”。
February war "epidemic."
列表。
List.
正文。
Text.
守家就是守城——武汉包子姐的除夕。
Keeping house is guarding the city - Wuhan Baozi sister's New Year's Eve.
作者：周远征 来源：中国经营网。
Author: Zhou YuanMarch Source: China Management Network.
本报记者 周远征 重庆报道“不管你在不在武汉，愿我们的心意在一起，大家一起保护自己，支持武汉，愿新的一年平安顺遂，无灾无病！”1月24日晚上9点58分，包子姐（武汉自媒体人包应普）以群主身份@了所有人，对于群里的每一个人而言，这都是一个注定难忘的除夕。
"Whether you are in Wuhan or not, may our hearts be together to protect themselves, support Wuhan, hope that the new year will be safe and sound, free from diseases!" At 9: 58 p.m. January 24, Baozi (Wuhan from the media bag Yingpu) @ everyone in the group, it is a doomed New Year's Eve.
1995年，包子姐考进了湖北大学，自此开始了武汉人的生活。
In 1995, the Baozi sisters entered Hubei University, and since then the life of Wuhan people has begun.
毕业后，包子姐进入了湖北当地媒体，并曾担任武汉晨报经济新闻部主任。
After graduation, my sister Baozi joined the local media in Hubei and worked as the director of Wuhan Morning News Economic Information Department.
前几天，许多武汉人逃出去的时候，包子姐一家选择了留在武汉，花了好几天做的出行攻略也放弃了。
A few days ago, many Wuhan people fled, the family chose to stay in Wuhan, spent a few days to do travel strategy also gave up.
她说，这几天在家里做卫生，家人聚在一起，关系更融洽，一年到头能聚的时间很少很少。
She said the days of home cleaning, family get together, a more harmonious relationship, little time to get together throughout the year.
留在了武汉，也就选择了坚守。
Remain in Wuhan, also chose to adhere to.
除夕的夜，包子姐一家老老小小七口，吃了一顿较为丰盛的晚餐，有牛肉，有鸡汤，也有包子姐爱吃的水饺。
On New Year's Eve, my sister-in-law ate a hearty supper of beef, chicken soup and dumplings that the steamed dumplings enjoyed by the sisters.
吃完饭，她在微信群里又转发了一次公号文章“武汉不怕，守家就是守城，你我都是战士！”华南海鲜市场的人们包子姐的家距离华南海鲜市场只有两公里。
"Wuhan is not afraid, keeping house is guarding the city, you and I are all warriors!" The South China seafood market people Baozi's home is only two kilometers from the South China seafood market.
一次注水牛肉的经历后，让她对这家市场有些深恶痛绝。
After an experience as a waterfowl, she developed an aversion to the market.
华南海鲜市场位于汉口颇为黄金的地段，距离汉口站仅一公里。
South China seafood market is located in Hankou quite gold location, just one kilometer from Hankou Station.
破旧的华南海鲜市场与周边林立的高楼颇为不相称。
The shabby South China seafood market is out of place with the surrounding skyscrapers.
包子姐曾经在这里购买过海鲜，但是对于海鲜市场里面是否有野味并不清楚。
Sister baozi used to buy seafood here, but it is not clear whether there is game in the seafood market.
她的印象里更多是这里的肮脏和管理的混乱。
Her impression was more of squalor and mismanagement here.
一个这么破旧的市场，怎么能够在这个黄金地段里留这么长，这是包子姐心里的疑问。
How can such a shabby market stay so long in this golden district, this is Baozi's question in my heart.
包子姐所建的群里，有一位在某绘本馆工作的潇女士，她家就在华南海鲜市场附近。
Among the groups set up by the Baozi sisters is a young lady working in a painting studio whose home is near the South China seafood market.
然而，潇女士从来没有去过这家华南海鲜市场。
However, Ms Xiao has never been to the South China seafood market.
喜欢网购的她，想着要从破旧不堪，又污水横流的市场里去采购，就丧失了采购的欲望。
She likes to buy online, think from the dilapidated, sewage-filled market to purchase, lost the desire to purchase.
潇女士的父母则喜欢在这家华南海鲜市场进行采购。
Ms. Xiao's parents like to shop in the South China seafood market.
潇女士说，现在这种市场一般年轻人逛得少，主要也就是中老年人。
Ms Xiao said that young people in general, mainly the middle-aged and the elderly, are now at a low level in this market.
1月15日，武汉市卫生健康委发布的信息也显示，截至目前，确定新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例41例，以男性为主，中老年发病人数较多。
On January 15, information released by Wuhan Health Commission also showed that so far, 41 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection have been confirmed, mainly among males, with more cases occurring in middle-aged and elderly people.
潇女士说，大概也是一开始主要是中老年感染的原因吧。
Ms. Xiao said it was probably also the cause of infection in the middle-aged and elderly.
这几天，潇女士甚少出门，即使戴着口罩出去，她也会犯怵。
These days, Ms. Xiao has rarely gone out, and she would have been bothered if she had gone out wearing a mask.
潇女士家小区，有不少是华南海鲜市场的经营户，距离海鲜市场近是这些经营户选择住在这里的原因。
Many of the households in Ms. Xiao's small area are operating in the South China seafood market. The proximity to the seafood market is the reason why these operators choose to live here.
幸运的是，不像隔壁两个小区那样发现了确诊病例，潇女士家小区至今未有人确诊。
Fortunately, unlike the two small districts next door where confirmed cases were found, no one has yet confirmed the case in the low-lying women's home district.
殷大姐从2002年就在华南海鲜市场经营海鲜。
Yin has been trading seafood in South China Seafood Market since 2002.
她在小区业主群里颇有名，因为她经常在业主群里将一天剩下的鲜虾打折卖给小区业主。
She is famous among small-business owners because she often sells the rest of the day's fresh shrimps to small business owners at a discount.
潇女士偶尔也从她这里捞到些便宜货。
Occasionally, Ms. Xiao took some cheap money from her.
华南海鲜市场关闭后，殷大姐也颇有些不舍，毕竟在这里经营了近二十年，生活从这里开始，也在这里告一段落。
South China seafood market closed, sister Yin also quite reluctantly, after all, here has been operating for nearly 20 years, life from here, but also here to end.
华南海鲜市场关闭后，殷大姐住在了汉口北。
South China seafood market closed, Yin lived in the north of Hankou.
华南海鲜市场里的混乱，她是比较清楚的。
The chaos in the South China seafood market was fairly clear to her.
她说，平素欺负商家的情况也是有的。
'There are cases of bullying, 'she says.
此前她们都觉得没什么去年12月30日武汉首次通报首例新型肺炎以来，华南海鲜市场成为了风暴眼。
The South China seafood market has been a storm since Wuhan first reported its first case of pneumonia on December 30 last year.
然而，包子姐、潇女士、殷大姐在此之前，并不清楚华南海鲜市场到底发生了什么。
However, steamed buns sister, Ms. Xiao and Sister Yin were unaware of what had happened to the seafood market in southern China.
深处漩涡中心，却貌似风平浪静。
Deep in the center of the whirlpool, it looks calm.
早在2019年12月8日，武汉就已经出现了第一例确诊的新型冠状病毒肺炎病人。
As early as December 8, 2019, Wuhan has appeared the first case of the new coronavirus pneumonia patients.
二十多天后的12月30日，武汉市卫生健康委员会医政医管处发布《关于做好不明原因肺炎救治工作的紧急通知》。
On December 30, more than 20 days later, the Medical and Medical Bureau of Wuhan Health Commission issued the Emergency Notice on Treating Unknown Causes of Pneumonia.
通知称，武汉市部分医疗机构陆续出现不明原因肺炎病人。
The notice said that some medical institutions in Wuhan city have been unexplained pneumonia patients.
通知要求各医疗机构要及时追踪统计救治情况，并按要求及时上报。
The notice requires all medical institutions to keep track of the statistical treatment and timely reporting as required.
12月31日上午，国家卫健委专家组抵达武汉，展开相关检测核实工作。
On the morning of December 31, a group of experts from the National Fitness and Health Commission arrived in Wuhan to begin relevant testing and verification work.
这些消息，并没有引起她们多大的警惕。
The news did not arouse much alarm on their part.
远在千里之外的香港，却高度警惕。
Hong Kong, thousands of miles away, is on high alert.
12月31日，香港食物及卫生局局长陈肇始在记者会上表示，各出入境口岸加强健康监察措施，转移怀疑个案至公立医院接受隔离治疗。
Speaking at a press conference on 31 December, the Secretary for Food and Health, Mr Chan Siu-kwong, said that health surveillance measures had been stepped up at the entry and exit points to divert suspected cases to public hospitals for isolation treatment.
1月4日，在尚无确诊病例的情况下，香港启动应变计划，将应变等级从“戒备”升为“严重”。
On January 4, in the absence of a confirmed case, Hong Kong launched a contingency plan to raise the response level from "alert" to "severe."
随后，香港又修例，将“严重新型传染性病原体呼吸系统病”纳入法定须呈报的传染病，提高监测此疾病的能力。
This was followed by an amendment to include SARS among the statutory notifiable infectious diseases and to enhance the capability to monitor the disease.
1月9日，香港卫生防护中心就与国家卫健委联系，取得新型冠状病毒的基因排序，提供针对性的测试。
On January 9, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of Hong Kong contacted the NCHP to obtain a genetic sequencing of the new coronavirus and provide targeted testing.
此时，香港各出入境管制站也加强了体温监测。
Temperature monitoring was also stepped up at the immigration control points in Hong Kong.
而在香港采取如此慎重的措施下，武汉的人们依然没有几个人戴口罩，仿佛身边已经发生的事情不存在。
In Hong Kong, however, with such caution, few people in Wuhan wear masks, as if nothing had happened to them.
潇女士说，那些天小孩、老人以及年轻人都很少有戴口罩的，他们也是22日才拿到了预订的口罩。
Those days, children, the elderly and young people rarely wear masks, Ms. Xiao said. They also got their scheduled masks on the 22nd.
香港采取如此慎重的举措，源于2003年SARS带来的教训。
Hong Kong's cautious approach stems from the lessons learned from SARS in 2003.
一位香港媒体人士对《中国经营报》记者表示，SARS事件，香港付出了惨痛的代价。
Hong Kong paid a heavy price for the SARS incident, a Hong Kong media source told China Business News.
2003年，全球确诊8096例，死亡744人。
In 2003, 8,096 cases and 744 deaths were diagnosed globally.
香港在SARS期间，共确认1755人染病，299人死亡。
A total of 1 755 cases and 299 deaths were confirmed in Hong Kong during SARS.
其中位于九龙塘的淘大花园共329人感染，42人死亡。
A total of 329 people were infected and 42 died in Taobao Garden in Kowloon Tong.
武汉在2003年也经历了一场防疫战。
Wuhan also experienced an epidemic prevention campaign in 2003.
她们，对于当时的记忆都有些模糊。
They, uh, are a little fuzzy about the memories.
包子姐说，2003年是全国人民抗非典，大家都很紧张。
The Baozi sisters said that 2003 was the national people against SARS, we are very nervous.
但是这一次，他们们之前都没有觉得很紧张，该干嘛就干嘛，前几天你看武汉人照常打麻将，口罩也没什么人戴。
But this time, they did not feel very nervous before, do what you want, the other day you watch Wuhan people as usual playing Mahjong, masks are also very few people wearing.
2003年，潇女士还在大学读书。
In 2003, Ms. Xiao was still at university.
她说，同寝室的一位室友，因为去广州看男友，回来就被隔离在大学宾馆21天。
She said a roommate from her dorm, who went to Guangzhou to see her boyfriend, came back and was quarantined at the university hotel for 21 days.
武汉市民们没有觉得什么的时候，湖北和武汉当地官方也正常地进行着各种盛大活动。
When the citizens of Wuhan did not feel anything, the local authorities in Hubei and Wuhan also carried out various grand activities normally.
1月5日，当地发布消息声称，没有人传人证据，没有医务工作者感染。
On January 5, local sources announced that there was no evidence of human transmission and no medical workers were infected.
1月10日前后，武汉当地医院床位已经开始爆满。
Around January 10, local hospital beds in Wuhan began to fill.
然而，1月10～17日，湖北省两会胜利召开。
However, on January 10-17, the two conferences in Hubei Province were held successfully.
1月11日上午7点4分，武汉市卫生健康委发布通报，截至2020年1月10日24时，初步诊断有新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例41例，其中已出院2例、重症7例、死亡1例。
At 7: 04 a.m. on January 11, the Wuhan Health Commission announced that as of 2400 hours on January 10, 2020, 41 cases of pneumonia with a new coronavirus infection had been preliminarily diagnosed, including 2 cases of discharge, 7 cases of severe disease and 1 case of death.
在此期间，通报异常稳定，确诊病例停留在41例。
During this period, the notifications were unusually stable, with 41 confirmed cases remaining.
直到1月18日00:10:55，武汉市卫生健康委发布通报，截至目前，武汉市累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例45例。
As of January 18, 00: 10: 55, Wuhan Health Commission announced that up to now, Wuhan city has reported 45 cases of new coronavirus infection of pneumonia.
漫长的两会期间，确诊病例终于有了4例增加。
In the course of two long sessions, the number of confirmed cases finally increased by four.
包子姐她们并没有关注到这些数据的变化。
Baozi sister they did not pay attention to these data changes.
包子姐在1月18日的朋友圈里，发了一条“要过年了，艳丽袜子上脚”。
Baozi sisters in the January 18 friends circle, issued a "New Year's Eve, gorgeous socks on foot."
潇女士在18日当天发的一则朋友圈也充满了过年喜气：“扫啊扫，把晦气和污浊都扫出去。
A group of friends sent by Ms. Xiao on the 18th was also full of New Year's Eve cheer: "Sweep, sweep away the bad luck and filth.
”这一天，是腊月二十四，小年！小年扫尘祭灶，也意味着人们开始准备年货，准备干干净净过个好年。
This day is the twenty-fourth of December, a small year! A small dust cooker also means that people begin to prepare New Year's Eve goods, ready to have a clean year.
守在家守住武汉1月20日02:42:40，武汉市卫生健康委发布的消息显示，确诊病例已经陡增到198例。
The number of confirmed cases has surged to 198, according to a report released by Wuhan Health and Hygiene Commission.
此时，包子姐和潇女士等，沉睡在梦乡里，她们将在清晨后遭遇真正的心理冲击。
At this point, Baozi sisters and Ms. Xiao are asleep, and they will suffer real psychological shock after dawn.
《中国经营报》记者从武汉卫生健康委网站上看到的浏览人数统计看，相较于之前只有几万的点击，1月20日的通报点击数达到了25.4万。
The China Business Administration reported 254,000 hits on January 20, compared with tens of thousands of hits on the Wuhan Health and Wellness Commission's website.
离开武汉吗？即使在这时，她们只是心理上感到有些冲击。
Leaving Wuhan? Even at this time, they just feel a little psychological impact.
毕竟，此时官方的说法中依然是“专家研判认为，当前疫情仍可防可控可防可治”。
After all, the official line at the moment is still "expert assessment that the current epidemic is still preventable and treatable."
潇女士说，既然政府都这样说，我们也就放心了，觉得只要是华南海鲜市场已经关闭了，接触那块的人进行了隔离，就没有什么事。
'Since the government says so, we feel relieved that as long as the seafood market in South China is closed and those who touch it are isolated, nothing will happen, 'Ms. Xiao said.
此时，包子姐和家人研究着除夕后出行的攻略，她也把父母接到了武汉家里一起过春节。
At this time, Baozi sister and her family are studying after the New Year's Eve travel strategy, she also took her parents to Wuhan home together for the Spring Festival.
形势在当天晚上急转。
The situation turned sharply that evening.
1月20日晚上9点30分，中央电视台《新闻1+1》栏目中，白岩松与钟南山连线，钟南山院士明确提出：“新型冠状病毒可人传人，预防和控制最有效的办法是早发现、早诊断，还有治疗、隔离。
At 9: 30 pm on January 20, the CCTV "News 1 + 1" column, the connection between Bai Yansong and Zhong Nan Shan, academician Zhong Nan Shan clearly stated: "The new coronavirus can be passed on from person to person.
”随后的情况，就变得紧张起来。
As it turned out, it became tense.
选择离开，还是留下，成为了包子姐她们的一个难题。
The choice to leave, or stay, has become a baozi sister they a difficult problem.
1月22日的清晨之后，留给包子她们选择的时间不多了。
After the early morning hours of January 22, the steamed buns were left with little time to choose.
包子姐一周前才刚刚把父母接到了武汉。
Sister Baozi had just sent her parents to Wuhan a week ago.
她说，一年只有两次长假，最多能够见父母两次面，他们计划着年后出去旅游，选择桂林或者顺德。
She said she had only two long vacations a year and could see her parents at most twice a year. They planned to travel in the next year and chose Guilin or Shunde.
她和女儿做了许久的攻略，当最终决定放弃年后旅游后，女儿大哭了一场。
She and her daughter made a long attack, when finally decided to give up tourism after a year, the daughter cried.
女儿给包子姐提出一个小要求，能否找一个好点的餐馆吃个饭。
Daughter to baozi sister a small request, can find a better restaurant for a meal.
然而，这个要求，也最终放弃了。
However, this request was eventually abandoned.
彼时包子姐的朋友在选择离开武汉的方案，包子姐选择了留在武汉。
At that time Baozi sister's friend in the choice to leave Wuhan, Baozi sister chose to stay in Wuhan.
潇女士一开始也有些慌神，想是不是应该出去。
Ms Xiao was also a bit flummoxed at first, wondering whether she should go out.
然而，就在纠结中老家已经传来有了疑似病例，而且也听说广东有了家庭聚会的传染。
However, in the tangled home has been a suspected case, but also heard that Guangdong has a family gathering infection.
潇女士觉得，回老家肯定要聚会，一聚会被传染的可能。
Ms Xiao thinks that going back to her hometown is a sure way to get together and infect a party.
她说，她没有什么高大上的想法，觉得先保护好自己，才能够保护好他人，才能够保护城市。
'She doesn't have any big, big ideas, 'she says.' She thinks she can protect people and protect the city by protecting herself.
她也选择了留在了这座城市里。
She also chose to stay in the city.
留在这里，就注定要与城市紧紧地凝结在一起。
Staying here is bound to be a tight knot with the city.
1月23日凌晨两点，武汉市发布了“封城”通告。
January 23 at 2 a.m., Wuhan issued a "closure" notice.
留在武汉的她们，需要与家人一起去面对不可知的情况。
Those who stay in Wuhan need to face the unknowable with their families.
潇女士当天上午出门，拍下了附近超市排队的情况，远远看到的价格并不像早间晚上流传的动辄35元一颗白菜那么离谱，她稍微放下了心。
Ms Xiao took a photo of the queue at a nearby supermarket that morning and was relieved to see prices that were not nearly as outrageous as the more than 35 yuan a cabbage that had been circulating in the morning.
包子姐则为家里应对未来的情况做好了分工。
The Baozi worked out a division of labour for the family to cope with the future.
她说，她在家里比较强势，他们很快就对家里分工，谁负责卖东西，谁负责卖药，谁负责每天进行体温检测。
She said she was strong at home, where they quickly divided the household, who sold things, who sold drugs and who took daily temperature tests.
她说：“我每天一起来，就要先感觉自己有没有发烧，有没有问题，然后再看看一家人，我觉得这一天赚了，我们尽量减少出去，不添乱不折腾，搞好自己家里的事，就是对城市最大的责任。
"When I come together every day, I feel like I have a fever, I don't have a problem, and then I look at the family," she said.
”包子姐提供给《中国经营报》记者的菜谱显示，早上家里吃饺子稀饭或汤圆饺子，中午鸡汤、牛肉、瘦肉、青菜，晚上则是牛肉、鸡汤以及鱼虾。
The recipe, which Sister Baozi provided to the China Business Daily, showed dumplings with porridge or dumplings at home in the morning, chicken soup, beef, lean meat, green vegetables at noon and beef, chicken soup and fish and shrimp at night.
她说，过年了会比平时稍微吃好一点，只是一些民营超市已经关了，武商超市这些会相对排队久一些。
She said that the New Year will be slightly better than usual, but some private supermarkets have closed, the martial arts supermarket these will be relatively long queuing up.
而在家里的卫生防护，也是包子姐比较重视的。
And at home, the health protection is also more important Baozi sister.
但是，现在酒精已经开始紧缺了，这样她有些焦虑。
Now, however, alcohol was beginning to run short, and she was anxious.
老公跟她说：“家里不是还有五粮液吗？”她对《中国经营报》记者笑着说：“我是用酒精擦地消毒，不到万不得已哪能用五粮液来擦地嘛。
My husband told her, "Isn't there any grain liquid in the house?" She told China Business News with a smile, "I use alcohol to clean the ground.
”这座高铁、机场、高速路都暂时停止的中部特大城市，还有上千万像包子姐们一样的普通人。
There are tens of millions of ordinary people like the baozi in the middle megacities, where high-speed rail, airports and highways have all been suspended.
她们以及他们都在慢慢去适应这一特殊时期。
They and they are slowly adapting to this particular period.
《中国经营报》亦有女同事留在了武汉，送别了老公和小孩，继续在关注和记录这座城市正在发生的真实。
The China Business Daily also had female colleagues who stayed in Wuhan to see off their husbands and children and continued to watch and record what was happening in the city.
包子姐说，武汉适应的速度比想象的快，一开始都会慌一些，慢慢就会好起来。
Wuhan, said the sister-in-law, adapt faster than expected, at the beginning of a little panic, slowly will be better.
她说，离开武汉的一些同事，也觉得受到了歧视，我也安慰她们需要去慢慢适应。
'Some of my colleagues who left Wuhan felt discriminated against, and I comforted them that they needed to get used to it, 'she said.
包子姐坦言：“我压力也很大，守护全家人的健康，是我的责任，不给社会增加压力，不折腾，同样是我的责任。
"I am also under a lot of pressure. It is my responsibility to protect the health of my family. It is also my responsibility not to increase the pressure on the society and not to toss.
”尽管，包子姐们都在适应。
"Even though the baozi were adapting.
但是，她们也在担心，疫情多久能够结束，小孩何时能够开学，何时能够上班。
But they are also worried about how soon the epidemic will end, when children will be able to start school and when they will be able to go to work.
这些问题，将随着时间的延长给他们带来一定的焦虑。
These problems will cause them some anxiety over time.
大年三十的夜，包子姐们早早吃过了晚饭。
On New Year's Eve, the Baozi sisters had an early supper.
好消息不断在传来，陆军军医大学、空军军医大学、海军军医大学等医疗队在大年夜紧急出发飞赴武汉。
Good news continues to come from the Army Medical University, Air Force Military Medical University, Navy Medical University and other medical teams on an emergency flight to Wuhan.
近几天来，医疗资源极度匮乏，医疗人员已经精疲力竭，甚至出现了一些混乱的武汉医疗体系，或许将会得到快速扭转。
In recent days, health-care resources have been sorely lacking, health-care workers have collapsed, and even a chaotic Wuhan health-care system may be rapidly reversed.
1月25日5点1分，湖北省卫健委发布的通报显示，湖北省累计报告新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例729例，死亡39例。
At 5: 01 a.m. on January 25, a report released by the Hubei Provincial Health Commission showed that 729 cases of pneumonia and 39 deaths were reported from the newly-reported coronavirus infection.
这座“二战”时经历过保卫战、经历过1998年洪灾，抗击过SARS的英雄城市，在随后的时间里会与包子姐们以及关心这座城市的人们一起挺过特殊的“守家与守城”时光。
The heroic city that fought against SARS during World War II, the 1998 floods, and the SARS epidemic will survive the special "home-watching and guarding" time with the Baozi sisters and those who care about the city.
（编辑：郝成 校对：彭玉凤）。
(Editor: Hao Cheng, proofread by Peng Yufeng).
* 除《中国经营报》署名文章外，其他文章为作者独立观点，不代表中国经营网立场。
* Except for the articles of China Business Administration, other articles are independent views of the author and do not represent the position of China Business Network.
。
.
* 未经本网授权，任何单位及个人不得转载、摘编或以其它方式使用上述作品，违者将被追究法律责任。
* No unit or individual may reproduce, extract or otherwise use the above works without the authorization of this website. Violators will be held legally liable.
。
.
* 凡本网注明“来源：中国经营网” 或“来源：中国经营报-中国经营网”的所有作品，版权均属于中国经营网（本网另有声明的除外）。
China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network China Business Network
。
.
* 如因作品内容、版权和其它问题需要同本网联系的，请在30日内进行。
If you need to contact us for details, copyright and other issues, please do so within 30 days.
。
.
* 有关作品版权事宜请联系：010-88890046 邮箱：banquan@cbnet.com.cn。
* For copyright information, please contact: 010-88890046; banquan @ cbnet.com.cn.
中国经营报。
China Business News.
经营成就价值。
Value of business achievement.
订 阅。
Subscriptions.
最新文章。
Latest article.
金融抗“疫”|6小时设计出抗疫新产品 兴业银行“加速度”畅通金融服务绿色通道。
Financial anti-epidemic & # 44; & # 45; 6 hours to design a new product to combat the epidemic & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
新冠肺炎疫情发生以来，商业银行作为我国金融体系的主体，采取了新增授信、延期还款、降低贷款利率等多种方式驰援..[详情]。
Since the outbreak of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, commercial banks, as the mainstay of our financial system, have provided new credit, deferred payments, and reduced lending rates by various means.
金融战“疫”|“贷”动生产马力 浙商银行力促一线企业抗击疫情。
Financial war "epidemic" & # 144; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
一线企业开足马力的背后，金融机构的快速“助攻”至关重要。
Behind the full-throttle start-up of first-tier companies, rapid "help" from financial institutions is crucial.
..[详情]。
. & # 91; Details & # 93;
金融战“疫”|“贷”动生产马力 浙商银行力促一线企业抗击疫情郑州市城乡建设局：新冠肺炎设定为“不可抗力” 防疫成本列入工程造价金融战“疫”|为湖北文旅紧急供血 国泰君安发行湖北省内首单疫情防控公司债 。
Financial War Plague & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
关于我们广告合作人才招聘订阅指南联系我们版权所有记者查验侵权公告 。
About our advertising cooperation talent recruitment subscription guide contact us copyright all journalists check tort notice.
Copyright © 中国经营网 - 中国经营报社 | 京ICP备13038787号-3 | 公安备案编号：11010802015402 | 本单位常年法律顾问所：北京志霖律师事务所。
Translated Description: China Business Network - China Operating Press & # 124; Beijing ICP Rep 13038787 - 3 & # 124; Public Security Filing No.: 110802015402 & # 124; Our perennial legal adviser: Zhilin Law Office in Beijing.
。
.
中国经营报微信。
China Business News Letter.
中国经营网微信。
China runs Weixin.
