武汉动物园求助：鹈鹕的命也是命。
Wuhan Zoo for help: Pelican life is also a fate.
王梓辉。
Wang Zihui.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
2月1日，武汉动物园的一则“求助信”引起了公众的注意。
An appeal for help from Wuhan Zoo attracted public attention on February 1.
民间力量一旦自发动员起来，迅速完成了资源的匹配。
Once the civil forces spontaneously mobilized, quickly completed the matching of resources.
记者 | 王梓辉援救快要断粮的鹈鹕家住武汉市汉阳地区的抖音主播刘浩昨晚很郁闷。
Last night, LiuHao, a diabolical broadcaster in Wuhan, China, rescued a pelican who was running out of food.
本来下午回家的时候他还挺高兴，觉得自己刚刚做了件好事。
By the time he got home in the afternoon, he was happy that he had just done a good deed.
2月1日下午三四点的时候，有粉丝询问他这边有没有鲫鱼卖。
February 1 3: 00 pm, some fans asked him whether there is carp on this side.
刘浩说，现在武汉都封城了，他没办法出去打鱼。
Now that Wuhan is closed, Liu said, he could not go out fishing.
粉丝解释跟他说，是离刘浩家不远的武汉动物园水产品断供了，导致动物园的动物饲料供给产生了困难，这才想问问他这边有没有鱼，想买了鱼送给动物园。
Fans explained to him that the lack of supplies at the Wuhan Zoo, not far from the Liu Hao's house, had caused problems with animal feed supplies to the zoo, and asked if he had any fish and wanted to buy one for the zoo.
刘浩的主业就是拍摄短视频，在抖音上的ID叫“大师兄撒网”，主要拍摄的内容是他在江上撒网打鱼，因为撒网的动作潇洒，在抖音上有79万粉丝。
Liu Hao's main occupation is to shoot short videos, in the diabolical ID called "big brother cast net", the main shooting content is he cast a net fishing, because the action of the nets smart, shaking 790,000 fans.
听完粉丝的解释后，刘浩想了想，原来自家冰柜里有不少过年前准备的小鲫鱼冻在那里，这就自己开上车，装了一百多斤的冻鲫鱼送到了武汉动物园。
After listening to the fans of the explanation, Liu Hao thought, the original home freezer has not less than prepared before the New Year's carp frozen there, so he drove his own car, loaded more than 100 jin of frozen carp sent to Wuhan Zoo.
刘浩（中）将冻鲫鱼送到武汉动物园。
Liu Hao (middle) sent frozen carp to Wuhan Zoo.
| 图源@花落成蚀武汉动物园很高兴，还专门为相关的微博点了赞。
The Wuhan Zoo is delighted to have the flowers completed, and has specifically praised the microblog in question.
刘浩也很高兴，把自己做好事的过程拍了视频上传到抖音。
Liu Hao is also very happy, the process of doing their own good deeds filmed on the video to the jitter.
没想到刘浩的父亲看到了视频，打电话跟刘浩说，那些鱼是他前两天用盐腌过后才冻起来的，动物园里的动物可能吃不了。
Unexpectedly Liu Hao's father saw the video, called Liu Hao said that the fish he had salted the other two days before the frozen, the zoo animals may not be able to eat.
刘浩听到后只好苦笑着给动物园打电话说：“鱼是放过盐的，你们看能吃就吃，不能吃就丢了吧。
When Liu Hao heard this, he had to call the zoo with a wry smile and said, "Fish are spared the salt.
”动物园的工作人员回复说，他们也不知道动物吃不吃，得试试才知道。
The zoo staff replied that they did not know that the animals did not eat, so they had to try.
要吃这些鱼的是动物园里的鹈鹕。
It is the pelicans at the zoo who eat the fish.
鹈鹕是一种大型水鸟，外表最大的特征就是它那副特别长的喙，这让它很擅长捕鱼。
The pelican is a large water bird with a long beak that makes it very good at fishing.
两千多年前，《庄子·外物》中就记载：“鱼不畏网，而畏鹈鹕。
More than 2,000 years ago, Zhuangzi Outer Space recorded that "the fish do not fear the net, but the pelican.
”经常与武汉动物园合作的武汉本地科普作家花蚀告诉本刊，武汉动物园里有13只白鹈鹕，它们是最麻烦的，“因为它们很挑食，只吃那种小规格的鲫鱼。
Wuhan Zoo, a local science writer who often cooperates with Wuhan Zoo, told the magazine there were 13 white pelicans at the Wuhan Zoo, the most troublesome because they are so picky that they eat only small carp.
”武汉动物园里的鹈鹕2月1日下午1点，武汉动物园在微博上公开求助，称“因为武汉市进行了严格的交通物流等管制，导致市场部分水产品断供了，园内的水产品即将用尽”，这引起了社会广泛的关注。
Wuhan Zoo Pelicans February 1, Wuhan Zoo on Weibo open for help, said: "Wuhan city because of strict traffic logistics and other control, resulting in the market part of the aquatic products, the garden is about to run out of aquatic products," aroused widespread concern.
花蚀向本刊详细解释，目前受影响最大的是“三类水鸟”，分别是，鹈鹕：需食用小规格鲫鱼；鹤：需食用活泥鳅或者小规格鲫鱼；企鹅：需食用多春鱼或小黄鱼，可接受冻品，但冻太久会拒食。
Pelicans: Crucian carp (Crucian carp) (Crucian carp) (Little Fish) (Crucian carp) Pelican: Pelican: Pelican: Pelican: Crucian carp: It needs to eat live loach or small size crucian carp.
武汉动物园在微博上的公开求助这三种水鸟中，企鹅的食材在求助后已经有热心市民和网友给动物园送去了一批，暂时得到了缓解；鹤喜欢吃鲜活的小泥鳅，也可以吃淡水鱼，但它们因为是杂食的，吃谷物也可以顶一阵；只有鹈鹕比较麻烦。
Wuhan Zoo in the public appeal of the three birds, penguins after the help of citizens and friends to send a batch of temporary relief; the crane like to eat live loach, but can also eat freshwater fish, because they are omnivorous, can eat grain for a while; only pelicans are more troublesome.
花蚀说，他们试过拿黑鱼切成块喂给鹈鹕，但是鹈鹕就是不吃。
The pelican did not eat the pelican, but the pelican did not eat it.
“你要知道，鲜活的鱼，尤其是像鲫鱼这种，我们主要是靠本地出产的，这个和肉不能比”，花蚀告诉本刊，“肉的话，其实外地调配的肉很容易进来，但是这种小鱼就得靠附近的渔民，他们把自己捞的或者是养殖的送过来，但湖北现在受交通物流的影响很大。
"You know, fresh fish, especially crucian carp, we mainly rely on local production, this and meat can not be compared," flower eclipse told this print, "meat, in fact, the deployment of meat in the field easily, but this small fish must rely on the nearby fishermen, they bring their own or breeding, but Hubei is now greatly affected by traffic logistics.
”刘浩送去的一百多斤“盐鲫鱼”最终没派上用场。
"Liu Hao sent more than 100 jin" salt carp "finally did not come in handy.
中国渔业协会原生水生物及水域生态专业委员会主任委员周卓诚了解到了这个情况后，主动帮武汉动物园联系上了阿里旗下的盒马生鲜超市。
ZhouZhuocheng, chairman of the Professional Commission on Primary Aquatic Organisms and Aquatic Ecology of the China Fishery Association, took the initiative to help Wuhan Zoo get in touch with Ali's Boxer Shengshen Supermarket.
但盒马那边因为最近武汉封城，导致它的保障是以大众基础供应为主，像泥鳅这种之前有的货物最近就没有储备。
But because of the recent closure of Wuhan, the security of Boxer is based on a mass-based supply, and previously available goods such as loach have recently been out of stock.
而多春鱼这种有储备的食材也是散装的，没办法大量提供给动物园。
And the spring fish stocks of this material is also loose, there is no way to provide a large number of zoos.
最后协调的方案是，盒马组织调集了一些资源，在2月2日下午将200斤小泥鳅送到了武汉动物园，后期还将有500斤小鲫鱼送达。
In the final coordinated programme, Boxer mobilized some resources and sent 200 kg of loach to Wuhan Zoo on the afternoon of February 2, and another 500 kg of crucian carp will be delivered later.
社会力量自救泥鳅送到后，周卓诚和花蚀这些在过程中出了力的热心人都发了微博庆祝。
Social forces self-help loach sent, Zhou Zhuocheng and flower erosion in the process of these dedicated people have made a micro-blog celebrations.
花蚀和盒马的工作人员都告诉本刊，动物园之前有固定的供应商，但之前的供应商自己的货运不进武汉，再加上武汉目前几乎关闭了所有的农贸生鲜市场，只留下了大型商超供居民生活所需，供应商们自己也买不到货，所以动物园现在“最需要的是能将货物运到动物园的供应商”。
Erosion and box staff told the magazine that the zoo had a regular supplier, but the former supplier's own shipments did not go into Wuhan, and Wuhan has now closed almost all the farm markets, leaving only large businesses for residents to live on and suppliers unable to buy their own, so zoos now "need suppliers who can ship their goods to the zoo."
在盒马组织调集下，200斤小泥鳅送达武汉动物园。
Under the mobilization of the Boxer organization, 200 jin of small loach arrived at Wuhan Zoo.
| 图源@花落成蚀刘浩说，他平时是在老家仙桃的小河里撒网打鱼，一天打个40斤鱼没问题，但现在因为交通管制，他的商务车也出不了城。
Liu Hao, who has spent 40 pounds a day fishing in a small river in his hometown of peaches, says Mr. Liu, now unable to get out of town because of traffic control.
周卓诚有湖北汉川那边的朋友能提供500斤的小刀鱼和小鲫鱼，但那位朋友也说，目前的问题还是运输，“要是能有运输通行证就好了。
Zhou Zhuocheng has friends over there in Hanchuan, Hubei, who can provide 500 jin of fish and crucian carp, but the friend also said that the current problem is transportation.
”武汉物流协会秘书长石君告诉本刊，自从封城之后，湖北省交通运输厅只对三类车辆实行高速公路放行政策：一是运送医疗救灾物资（免通行费）；二是运送群众生活物资；三是运送保障城市运行的水、电、气等相关物资。
Shi Jun, secretary-general of the Wuhan Logistics Association, told the magazine that since the city was closed, the Hubei Provincial Transportation Office had adopted a highway release policy for only three types of vehicles: first, transporting medical and disaster relief materials (toll-free); second, transporting people's living materials; and third, transporting water, electricity and gas related materials to guarantee the city's operation.
湖北省防控指挥部交通保障组相关工作人员则在三类规定车辆下进一步向本刊解释说，他们现在的规定还有两大原则，一个是车辆必须是货运车辆，另一个则是活体家禽牲畜不能运输。
Hubei Provincial Command Transportation Security Section staff under the three categories of vehicles further explained to this print, they now have two main principles, one is that the vehicle must be freight vehicles, the other is live poultry livestock can not be transported.
因此，武汉动物园里那些需要吃活物的动物们只有靠盒马这样能特事特办的大型企业帮忙。
As a result, Wuhan Zoo animals who need to eat live animals can only rely on a box of horses to help special large enterprises.
具体到各地市，武汉市则规定，一旦有车辆要驶出武汉市的范围，就需要武汉市防控指挥部运输保障组开具的通行证。
Specifically to the cities, Wuhan city rules, once there are vehicles to drive out of the Wuhan city, the Wuhan City Command of Transportation Security issued by the security team issued a pass.
自1月23号封城后，武汉物流协会组建了一支400多人的防疫志愿车队，他们就办理了不少张通行证。
Since the closure of the city on January 23, Wuhan Logistics Association set up a more than 400 volunteers for immunization convoys, they have processed a number of permits.
石君说，他们现在接到最多的任务就是到高速路口接收外地货车运来的物资，“因为他们的车辆进了武汉之后就不好回去了，不仅出城麻烦，回去之后很多地方都要他们自己隔离，所以我们叫他们在高速口的时候就把货卸下来，我们帮他们转运到武汉市内，并且在武汉市内做相关的配送工作。
'Their most important task now is to get supplies from trucks at high-speed intersections. 'Because their vehicles don't go back to Wuhan, not only go out of the city, but many places want to isolate themselves on their way back, so we ask them to unload the goods at high speed, we help them transfer them to Wuhan and do related distribution work in Wuhan.
”远征 摄石君说，他们现在400多人的队伍还是很紧张的，“因为在武汉的司机不多，大部分司机都是住在外面的，他们没有办法回来。
The expedition's 400-strong team is still nervous, "because there are not many drivers in Wuhan, most of whom live outside, and they can't come back.
”在正常情况下，武汉市周边的物流货运都有物流公司负责，仅武汉物流协会下属的各类会员物流企业就有600家。
Under normal circumstances, logistics companies are responsible for freight forwarding around Wuhan, with 600 member logistics enterprises under the Wuhan Logistics Association alone.
但石君说，这些物流公司大部分都面临没有司机的情况，他们接到过不少到武汉周边农场拉蔬菜的任务，这些任务本来是有具体物流公司负责运送的。
But Shi said most of the logistics companies face the prospect of not fewer than a few trips to Wuhan to pull vegetables from farms around the city, which are being carried out by specific logistics companies.
特殊时刻，政府的行政力量已无法顾及到全部的需求。
At special moments, the executive power of the government can no longer cover all the needs.
1月25日，武汉市发布公告，自2020年1月26日0时始，除经许可的保供运输车、免费交通车、公务用车外，中心城区区域实行机动车禁行管理；市民确有通行需求的，按指挥部第8号通告执行。
The city of Wuhan issued a notice on January 25, according to which, starting from 0000 hours on January 26, 2020, motor vehicles will be banned in central urban areas, except for licensed supply trucks, free transport vehicles and official vehicles.
此前第8号通告称：为解决市民居家出行不便等问题，武汉全市紧急征集6000台出租车，分配给中心城区，每个社区3-5台，由社区居委会统一调度使用。
To solve the problem of inconveniences, Wuhan has issued an urgent call for 6,000 taxis to be distributed among the city's central districts, each with three to five units, to be used by neighborhood committees, the notice said.
因为车少需求多，这种方案给武汉市很多居民的出行带来了一定困难。
Because fewer cars need more, this kind of scheme brings some difficulty to the travel of many residents of Wuhan city.
远征 摄武汉人张明义之前是一个普通的牛奶商人，只是因为有两台车，他在武汉交通管制后主动组建了一支网上志愿车队，帮忙接送一些有紧急需求的市民。
Zhang Mingyi, an expedition to take pictures of Wuhan people, was an ordinary milkman just because he had two cars. He took the initiative to set up an online volunteer convoy after Wuhan traffic control to help transport some citizens in urgent need.
有一位曾乘获得过志愿者帮助的武汉市民告诉本刊，她当时在1月26号凌晨5点到达了武昌火车站，家里人不方便来接，她先打了一下市长热线，里面先是回复说要联系一下公安看看有没有办法。
A Wuhan city resident who had been helped by volunteers told the magazine she arrived at Wuchang railway station on January 26 at 5: 00 am. Her family could not come to pick her up.
但是他们后来再打的时候，里面就回复说暂时没有办法，要等一等，让他们自己也想想办法。
But when they called back later, they replied that there was nothing they could do, so they could wait and see what they could do.
她又给社区打电话，没有人接；给江岸区的车队打电话，碰上中心城区戒严，汉口的车队也没有办法跨长江赶到武昌来。
She called the community again, but no one answered; she called the river convoy, which ran into a curfew in the central city, and Hankou's convoy was unable to cross the Yangtze River to Wuchang.
最后还真是在微信群里看到有志愿者的留言，打通了电话，一位好心的车主开车把他们送回了家。
Finally, in the micro-letter group to see the message of volunteers, call the phone, a kind car owner drove them back home.
问起当初的想法，张明义说：“国家有难了，武汉有难了，我自己反正是单身，能出点力就出点力，就是想做点事情。
Asked about the original idea, Zhang Mingyi said: "the country has difficulties, Wuhan has difficulties, I am single anyway, can do something to help, is to do something.
”（刘浩、张明义为化名）作者档案王梓辉可慢慢而归26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：guitumanman个人微博：汉瑟姆WANG请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
(Liu Hao, Zhang Mingyi as a pseudonym) The author's file, Wang Zihui can slowly back 26 minutes ago Lifestyle Weekly personal message: Hanseum WANG please poke [Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Series] The article copyright belongs to the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉动物园求助：鹈鹕的命也是命。
Wuhan Zoo for help: Pelican life is also a fate.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉动物园求助：鹈鹕的命也是命";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; Wuhan Zoo & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "民间力量一旦自发动员起来，迅速完成了资源的匹配。
var msg _ desc = & quot; once civil society mobilized spontaneously, it quickly matched its resources.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
