鸡在瘟疫蔓延时。
The chickens spread when the plague spread.
蔚琳颖迪呈杰敏洁。
Wei Lin Ying-di is Jemin Jie.
GQ报道                      。
GQ coverage.
GQ报道。
GQ coverage.
记录人物的浮沉和时代价值的变迁。
Record the ebb and flow of characters and the vicissitudes of the times.
全面、真实、深入、准确的非虚构故事，每周为您送上。
Full, true, in-depth, accurate non-fiction story, sent to you every week.
。
.
养了三十万只鸡的邢海超觉得，封路封住鸡苗，这逻辑哪里不太对：人命是大于天，但市场出了问题，就是民生出了问题，这人命不也需要民生去维持吗？···············❶“新年第一炮，先豁四箱”大坑挖了1米深，一直延伸出去十多米，河南漯河舞阳县吴城镇的户外气温不到8℃，3万6千只鸡雏正在坑底“叽叽叽”叫个不停，毛茸茸的小脑袋活泼地挤来挤去。
Xing Haichao, who has raised 300,000 chickens, thinks that the logic of sealing off chicken seedlings is not correct: human life is greater than the sky, but the market goes wrong, the big hole is one meter deep, and the human life needs to maintain itself.
此前的21天，它们还是3万6千颗种鸡蛋，在金吉禽业37°恒温的孵化箱里，精密、卫生、安全地等待被孵化。
For the previous 21 days, they had 36,000 eggs, waiting to hatch in a incubator at 37 ° C in the poultry industry.
1月23日，腊月二十九，这批出壳刚一天的小鸡雏，一筐一筐，连着蛋壳，通通倒进了新挖的土坑中。
On January 23rd, on the 29th of January, the chicks, which had been chicks only one day old, were given a basket full of eggs, all connected with their eggshells, and poured into the newly dug pits.
挖掘机几铲子，土就把鸡雏盖住了。
A few shovels of the excavator covered the chickens with dirt.
工人们都是大老爷们儿，还是忍不住掉眼泪，“叽叽叽”的声音很快变小，消失，总经理张振刚倒是没哭，只是“那心像针扎一样”。
The workers are all men, or can not help crying, "serge serge" voice quickly diminished, disappeared, general manager Zhang Zhengang is not crying, just "the heart like a needle.
大年初一，张振刚活埋了第二批，还是3万6千只。
On New Year's Day, Zhang Zhengang buried the second batch alive, or 36, 000.
初三，3万6千只；初五，3万6千只。
Thirty-six thousand on the third day of the month; thirty-six thousand on the fifth.
后头还有6批在候着。
Six more batches ahead.
不出意外，2020年的这个年关，他总共将失去36万只小鸡。
Unsurprisingly, he will lose a total of 360,000 chickens at the turn of the year 2020.
张振刚没敢和家里人商量——老母亲已是癌症晚期，再经不过这样的刺激；10岁的女儿最爱小鸡雏，每次来厂里都赖着不走。
Zhang Zhengang did not dare to discuss with his family - the old mother is advanced cancer, can not go through such stimulation; 10-year-old daughter favorite chicken chicks, every time the factory stay.
活埋鸡雏的视频最终还是被家里人看到了，妻子说，女儿哭得不得了，“爸爸太狠心了！”不是爸爸狠心。
Live chicken chicks video was finally seen by the family, the wife said, the daughter cried out, "Dad too cruel!" is not a father cruel.
张振刚没法解释，说到底，这是“没有办法的办法”。
Zhang Zhengang is unable to explain, after all, this is "no way out."
张振刚目前已活埋了近15万只小鸡（图片来源：张振刚）从1月20号开始，新冠肺炎疫情严峻，公路封锁，活禽市场关闭，饲料运不进来，鸡苗卖不出去，全国各地的养鸡户都度过了一个惶惶然的春节。
Zhang Zhengang has buried nearly 150,000 chickens alive (Source: Zhang Zhengang) Since Jan. 20, poultry farmers across the country have experienced a severe outbreak of pneumonia, a road blockade, the closure of live poultry markets, the inability to bring in fodder and the inability to sell chickens.
河南尤甚——在堪称全国最严的“封路”政策之下，鸡甚至逃不出自己的村庄。
Henan, in particular - under what is arguably the country's most restrictive "road closure" policy, chickens are unable to escape their villages.
河南商丘人佳宁的青年鸡迟迟不能出栏，被压死了五六十只，死鸡被她扔进锅炉，化为灰烬。
Henan Shanqiu Jining's young chicken delayed out of the column, was crushed to death fifty or sixty, dead chickens thrown into the boiler by her, ashes.
河南许昌的王俊杰把十几筐刚破壳的小鸡仔倒进麻袋里，送给养狗场的朋友去煮熟了，喂狗，没收钱。
Wang Junjie of Xuchang, Henan Province, poured a dozen baskets of newly cracked chickens into sacks and gave them to his friends in the kennel for cooking, feeding the dogs and confiscating the money.
来自河南荥阳的邢海超发布了一则埋鸡的小视频，黄毛和黄土混在一起，配上他沉稳的河南口音的旁白：“新年第一炮，先豁（倾倒）四箱”。
Xing Hai Chao, from Zhengyang, Henan Province, released a video of buried chickens, yellow hair mixed with loess, and narrated in his steady Henan accent: "The first cannon of the New Year, four cases of dumping."
热门第一的评论获得了1170个赞：“都不要了吗这是，都是生命呀！”安徽淮南的刘胡金跟我们边讲边哭。
The top review won 1,170 commendations: "No more! It's all life!" Liu Hujin of Huainan City, Anhui Province, talked to us and cried.
1月21日，他把9650只青麻鸡鸡苗刚拉回家，看到武汉传出消息，没当回事：报道里只提了野生动物，没提到家禽。
On January 21, he returned home with 9,650 chicken-and-hens, but no news came out of Wuhan. The report only mentioned wild animals, not poultry.
此后几天，手机新闻弹窗让他开始紧张：确诊数目节节攀升，人得病，活禽市场也给关了。
Over the next few days, the cell phone news window made him nervous: the number of confirmed cases climbed, people got sick and the live poultry market closed.
大年初二，他和妻子算了笔账，养成这批鸡，得花17到19万，俩月后出栏如果卖不出去，就是亏17到19万——埋了吧。
On the second day of the New Year, he and his wife had made up their accounts and had to pay 170,000 to 190,000 for the chickens. If they didn't sell them in two months, they would be losing between 170,000 and 190,000.
多喂一袋粮食，就多浪费两三百块钱，刘胡金当天就给小鸡断了粮，鸡仔饿的嗷嗷叫，聚拢到一块。
Two or three hundred more dollars were wasted by one more bag of grain. Liu Hu broke the chicken's bread the same day and squealed when the chickens were hungry.
大年初三，刘胡金扛着铁锹，一个人到村外荒地里挖了个大坑，三米宽四米长，挖坑时“眼泪都是哗哗的”。
On the third day of the Lunar New Year, Liu Hu Jinn carried a shovel and dug a big hole in the wasteland outside the village, three meters wide and four meters long.
大年初四傍晚，9650只小鸡装进饲料袋，刘胡金电瓶车开了两趟，打着灯，倒了下去。
Early Thursday evening, 9650 chickens into the feed bag, Liu Hu Jin electric truck driving twice, lights, fell down.
❷“鸡比我正常多了”来自外界的消息层层传递，传到省，传到县，传到这个国家的神经最末梢。
"Chicken is much more normal than me" The news from the outside world spread from layer to layer to the province, to the county and to the extreme end of the nation.
传到王萍的鸡棚子时，距离钟南山院士到达武汉，已经过去了九天。
When spread to Wang Ping's chicken shed, from Zhong Nan Shan academician arrived in Wuhan, has already passed nine days.
大年初四晚上，河南开封的王萍给妹夫打电话，你帮我捎点东西呗？妹夫说，你们村早都封路了，我过不去！王萍跑出鸡棚子200米远，才发现村里的路已经封得严严实实。
At the beginning of the year, Wang Ping in Kaifeng, Henan Province, called her brother-in-law and you brought me something? He said, Your village was closed long ago and I couldn't get through!
她盯着鸡舍的这几天，村口已经砌了个土墙，村干部在路口把着，谁也不让过。
She stared at the chicken coop in the past few days, the village has built a wall of earth, village cadres at the intersection, no one has allowed.
几天之间，大大小小的村子都封上了路，各村有各村的办法，用电线杆拦着，用挖土机挖坑，或者一台汽车直接横在路中间，车里没人，也没钥匙。
Within days, villages, large and small, were sealed off and villages had their own way of stopping them with utility poles, digging pits with earth-moving machines, or a car in the middle of the road, with no one in the car and no keys.
邢海超本来打算送鸡苗，大年初一，一觉醒来，自己的村子像碉堡一样，被大大小小的土堆围得严严实实，每500米就有一个交警或公安把守。
Xing Hai Chao had intended to send chicken seedlings. On the first day of the Lunar New Year, his village was like a bunker surrounded by large and small mounds, guarded by a traffic policeman or public security every 500 meters.
把守的人说，有村委开证明就能出去。
The guards said they could go out with a certificate from the village council.
过了一天，村委的证明也无效了，最近的客户就在五里地外也运不过去。
A day later, the village committee's certificate also invalid, the nearest customer just five miles away can not get past.
到手的订金一单一单往回退，邢海超急了。
Gaining a single deposit back, Xing Hai ultra-urgent.
高速路口离家只有几里地，他想办法把车开上了高速，一个一个地勘察出口。
A few miles from home at the highway junction, he managed to get the car onto the highway and explore the exit one by one.
情形没有好转，反倒愈加糟糕了起来。
Instead of getting better, the situation got worse.
交警拦下他：“是你的命大（重要），还是你的鸡苗大（重要）？”鸡苗出不去，蛋也出不去。
The traffic police stopped him: "Is your life (important), or your chicken seedling big (important)?" Chicken seedlings can not get out, eggs can not get out.
河南新镇的刘伟涛看着鸡蛋一件一件往仓库里积压，急得连鸡舍都不想进，“不知道什么时候是个头”。
Liu Weitao, of Henan New Town, looked at the accumulation of eggs one by one into the warehouse. He was so anxious that he did not want to enter the chicken coop.
他手里一万多只种鸡每天依旧在下蛋，种蛋必须在十天之内卖给孵蛋厂，要不就成了鲜鸡蛋，鲜鸡蛋比种蛋一箱差上百元，一天就赔两三千，一个月就赔近十万。
More than ten thousand chickens still lay their eggs every day, and the eggs had to be sold to the hatchery within ten days, or they were fresh eggs, which were a hundred dollars less than a crate of eggs, costing two or three thousand a day and nearly 100,000 a month.
妻子拣蛋的时候和他生气，他也没法儿，就瘪着嘴不回答。
His wife was angry with him when she picked the eggs, and he was unable to do so, so he did not reply.
他在年前二十八听说了武汉的事儿，但觉得“它又不是禽流感，和鸡没关系。
He heard about Wuhan 28 years ago, but felt "it's not avian flu, it's not chicken."
”直到大年初二下午，他从村西头走到东头，看到路封了，心想那么多医护人员都去武汉了，封几天就差不多了。
"Until the afternoon of New Year's Day, he walked from the west to the east of the village and saw the road sealed, thinking that so many medical workers had gone to Wuhan.
几天后再一看，土堆换成了红色的铁皮瓦，把路封的死死的，蛋彻底送不出去了。
A few days later, the pile of earth changed into a red tin tile, the road sealed the dead, the eggs completely sent out.
村里用红色的铁皮瓦封了路（图片来源：刘伟涛）抱有同样想法的还有王萍一家。
The village sealed the road with red tin shingles (photo: Liu Weitao), along with Wang Ping and his family.
村里没有人去过武汉，也没有疑似的患者。
No one in the village has been to Wuhan and there are no suspected patients.
春节前她看到新闻，总感觉“国家这么强大，一下子就能把它治住”，没有多准备饲料。
Spring Festival before she saw the news, always feel that "the country is so strong, it can be cured in a short time", no more prepared feed.
现在没料了，他们在养殖群里呼吁，可提供饲料的经销商说，料运不过来了，让它们自己死掉吧。
Unexpectedly, in the farming community, they appealed to the distributor, who could provide the feed, that the material would not come. Let them die.
他们又问，那这个损失怎么办？对方还是说不管，到时候再说，别人经销商怎么办咱就怎么办。
They asked, what about the loss? The other side said no matter, and then we will do what other dealers do.
王萍只能减少给两万只小鸡喂食的次数，原来一天喂两次，现在只能喂一次。
Wang Ping can only reduce the number of feeding 20, 000 chickens, the original twice a day, now can only feed once.
平常喂上30袋，现在10袋都喂不到。
Normally, 30 bags are fed, but now you can't feed 10.
原本这个阶段，小鸡长得最快，毛比较少，身上的肉红乎乎的，现在一看就瘦了。
Originally this stage, the chicken grows the fastest, the hair is less, the flesh on the body is red, now looks thin.
丈夫晚上进去加料，一打开灯，一听饲料车子响声，小鸡一下子都蹦起来了，“好像是很饿很饿的样子，挺可怜的”。
The husband goes in to fill at night, a turn on the light, a hearty feed car noise, chick all of a sudden jump up, "as if very hungry appearance, very poor."
有天，丈夫从里头拿出来10多只死掉的鸡，它们体型小，抢不过人家。
One day, the husband took more than 10 dead chickens out of it. They were too small to be robbed.
王萍在干涸的河沟里挖了一个大坑，把它们一起埋了。
Wang Ping dug a big hole in the dry creek and buried them together.
佳宁进到鸡舍一看，才发现有五六十只鸡被压死了。
When Jining entered the chicken coop, he found fifty or sixty chickens crushed to death.
她家的肉鸡已经长到六十天，初三就该往外出栏了。
Her chicken has grown to 60 days, the third day of her home should go out the column.
可动物检疫开不出来，就不敢往外发。
But the animal quarantine does not open, dare not go out.
四万只肉鸡挤在笼子里，晚上睡的时候睡不开，压到下面的就死了。
Forty thousand chickens were huddled in cages, unable to sleep at night, and those who stayed down died.
死掉的鸡往那儿一躺，上半身的羽毛没有了，肉都被踩烂了，一眼就能看出来。
The dead chicken lay there, its upper body feathered, its flesh crushed, and visible at a glance.
家里有锅炉，死鸡直接扔到炉子里烧了。
There were boilers in the house, and dead chickens were thrown straight into the stove and burned.
小鸡苗运到家60天，白天要喂，晚上要检查，怕温度低了，怕老鼠伤它。
Chicken seedlings to home 60 days, the day to feed, at night to check, afraid of low temperature, afraid of rats hurt it.
现在佳宁一只一只往炉子里扔，心疼也没用，她更心疼看见父母擦眼泪。
Now Jiangning into the furnace one by one, the heartache is also useless, she is more distressed to see her parents wipe tears.
和道路一同封堵的是一个家庭现金流的运转。
Confined with the road is a family cash flow operation.
重庆卖土鸡的高飞刚刚收到去年的账户余额对账单，显示余额还有2576.34元。
Gao Feifei, a Chongqing native chicken seller, has just received a reconciliation of last year's account balance, showing a balance of 2576.34 yuan.
山西运城的小颖一家去年刚找民贷借了60万修鸡舍，买设备。
The small Ying family in Shanxi Yuncheng just borrowed 600,000 chicken coops last year to buy equipment.
贷款得每年还一次，一次还10万。
The loan must be repaid once a year, for 100,000 at a time.
他们养的时候都不知道会赚还是会赔，就只能赌。
They don't even know if they're gonna make a profit or they're gonna pay for it.
买鸡苗的时候赶上猪瘟，猪农们伤心了，改养鸡，推得鸡苗价格水涨船高，到了6块一只。
Buy chicken seedlings when catch pig distemper, pig farmer is sad, change raise chicken, push the price of chicken seedlings rise, to 6 dollars a.
现在卖的却是最便宜的鸡，2块5一只也没有人拉。
Now it sells the cheapest chicken, two dollars and five and no one to pull.
“正准备把钱给人家还呢，突然出现这种情况了。
"" I was just about to give back my money when this happened.
”今年刚好是秀姐的本命年。
"This year coincides with Sister's life.
她的微信个性签名是，“成功的路上没有电梯，只有一步步爬梯子”。
Her personal signature was, "There is no elevator on the road to success, only step by step up the ladder."
可这梯子总容易断掉。
But this ladder breaks easily.
今年上半年，她通过养鸡好不容易赚了四五十万，便给家里买了一辆十多万的别克领克越野车，总算是不用开货车出门了。
In the first half of this year, she managed to make four and a half million dollars by raising chickens and bought her family a Buick-led Land Cruiser that won't have to go out in a lorry.
“现世报，赚了就还回去了”，最近三个月行情不好，她已经亏了四十万，春节再碰上疫情，很快就要拉平了。
In the past three months, she has been losing 400,000 yuan. The Spring Festival is coming back and will soon be even.
安徽淮南的张后风手里只剩下两三天余料了。
Huainan, Anhui Province, Zhang Houfeng has only two or three days left in his hand.
他用的是“东方希望”的饲料，这几天天天打电话问，厂里的人告诉他，厂里没有原料，一点儿库存都没有了。
He was using the Eastern Hope feed and had been calling every day for several days to ask if the factory was empty of raw materials and stocks.
他还看到朋友圈里批发商说，集贸市场不准卖了，那些大的经销商的摊子都给拆了，没人敢来拉鸡，“手里有鸡的都完了”。
He also saw wholesalers in his circle of friends say that the market was not allowed to be sold, that the stalls of the big dealers were torn down, that no one dared to pull the chickens.
除夕当晚，张后风连小孩的压岁钱都没给。
On New Year's Eve, Zhang Hufeng didn't even give the children any lucky money.
白天，他打起精神去鸡舍巡视，三万只麻鸡精神挺立，还不知道即将面临饿死的窘境，倒是他萎靡不振，“鸡比我正常多了。
During the day, he roused himself to the chicken coop. Thirty thousand cocks stood upright, not knowing that they were going to starve to death.
”❸“村长是亲哥也不顶用”为了让两万只小鸡多活一天，王萍的丈夫一大早骑电动车出了门。
"To make 20,000 chickens live an extra day, Wang Ping's husband rode an electric car out of the house early in the morning.
他要去上粮点收玉米，再找加工的地方把籽打碎。
He was going to feed the corn and find a place to work to break the seeds.
村里封路，开车过不去，电动自行车遇到土堆和电线杆，还能把车搬着翻过去。
Villages blocked roads, drove past, electric bicycles ran into piles of dirt and utility poles, and carried cars over.
料打好了，他一次只能运一点，四五趟来回，勉强够鸡吃一天。
The material was ready, and he could carry it only a little at a time, four or five times, barely enough for the day.
初五，四川德阳的秀姐终于联系上一位客户，愿意拖走25000只鸡苗。
Five, Sichuan Deyang Xiujie finally contact a customer, willing to drag away 25,000 chicken seedlings.
第二天，她先把其中5000只鸡苗装了货，带去当地的畜牧局报备。
The next day, she stocked five thousand of them and took them to the local livestock office for reporting.
照流程，畜牧局给小鸡照相、抽查、消毒，她再报上买家的身份证信息和电话号码，就能拿到获批手续了。
In accordance with the procedure, the Animal Husbandry Bureau to take photographs of chickens, spot-check, disinfect, and then she gave the buyer's identity card information and telephone number, can get approval procedures.
可这天，工作人员让她证明，这些鸡真是从她厂里拉来的。
On that day, the clerk asked her to prove that the chickens had indeed been taken from her factory.
工作人员问：村里都封路了，我怎么知道你的鸡是哪儿来的？秀姐回答，村里的确封路了，一条双向车道，左侧挡了一辆车，但右侧还留了口子，以备紧急情况。
How do I know where your chickens came fromThe village was indeed closed, answered the scholar, a two-way driveway and a car blocked to the left, but there was a cut on the right side in case of emergency.
这个答案不被接受，她只好回村开证明。
The answer was not accepted and she had to go back to the village to prove it.
回到畜牧局，工作人员又说，买家也必须拿到当地畜牧局的批准。
Returning to the Livestock Service, the staff added that the buyer must also obtain the approval of the local Livestock Service.
于是她又回了村，在村口接上客户，反复给买家那边的畜牧局打电话。
So she went back to the village, at the village head pick up customers, repeatedly to the buyer over there animal husbandry.
电话里，两边的工作人员沟通了一番。
On the phone, the two sides of the staff communicated.
可挂了电话，本地的工作人员却对秀姐说，对方是用手机打来的，必须用028的座机打来我们才认。
But hang up the phone, the local staff said to Xiujie, the other party is using the phone, must be 028 to call us to recognize.
他们的话听起来很有道理：现在是特殊时期，你要理解。
What they say sounds reasonable: these are special times, you have to understand.
“我一只鸡五分钱亏本处理了，我理解你，谁来理解我？”秀姐又把5000只鸡苗拉回了家。
"I lost five cents a chicken, I understand you, who will understand me?" Xiujie pulled the 5000 chicken seedlings home.
四川德阳秀姐的鸡苗（图片来源：秀姐）疫情面前，村长是亲哥也不顶用。
Sichuan Deyang Xiujie chicken seedlings (picture: Xiujie) epidemic situation, the village chief is pro-brother is also not useful.
邢海超去找当村长的哥哥，哥哥告诉他，自己也开不了路，邢海超去找畜牧局，局里回答：人命大于天，你们那个损失在人命面前，不算什么。
Xing Hai went to find his brother, who was the village chief. He told him that he could not open his own way. Xing Haiyang went to the Animal Husbandry Bureau, and the bureau replied: Life is more than heaven, your loss in front of human life, nothing.
他明白这个道理，但又觉得这逻辑好像哪里不太对：人命是大于天，但市场出了问题，就是民生出了问题，这人命不也需要民生去维持吗？电话里，邢海超用浓重的河南口音向我们朗读了一则通知，由农业农村部办公厅、交通运输部办公厅和公安部办公厅在1月30日联合下发，重点是“严禁未经批准擅自设卡拦截、断路阻断交通等违法行为，维护‘菜篮子’产品和农业生产资料正常流通秩序。
But what seems to be wrong with this logic: human life is greater than the sky, but the market is wrong, the livelihood of the people is not necessary to maintain it?
”想到这一点，他打算联合当地的其它养鸡户，一起拨打市长热线。
"Thinking of that, he decided to call the mayor's hotline with other local chicken farmers.
在山东的几个养殖户微信群里，一封申请信正在流传：致尊敬的莘县农业农村局，畜牧服务中心各位领导....信上主要提了三个问题：养殖户这次倾家荡产怎么办？大量的家禽尸体怎么处理，会不会叠加爆发动物瘟疫？疫情过去以后，大家吃什么？落款的申请人写着：畜禽养殖生产者。
A letter of application is being circulated among several farmers in Shandong Province. It is addressed to the Honourable Agricultural and Rural Bureau of Xinxian County and the leaders of the Livestock Services Center... The letter mainly asks three questions: What about the farmers' disposal of their property this time?
结尾还有一句：请广大畜禽养殖户扩散转发！一位养鸡户把这封信转发到一个养鸡技术教学群里，五个人跟着发了点赞的表情，群主很快回复：本群没有领导，你发了领导看不到。
At the end of the sentence: Please spread and forward the letter to a chicken farmers technical group, five people followed suit, the group quickly replied: no leadership, you do not see the leadership.
23岁的小颖想不通，该怎么帮养鸡的父母渡过这一关？她平时在杭州的一家淘宝网店做美工，过年才回到远在山西运城的家。
Xiao Ying, 23, couldn't figure out how to help her parents get through this. She usually worked as an artist at a Taobao store in Hangzhou before returning to her home in Shanxi Yuncheng in the New Year.
她不懂养鸡，临时在网上查资料学习。
She does not know how to raise chickens, temporarily in the online study.
她在抖音上搜索“收鸡”，联系了一圈，没有人收，也不知道什么时候会收。
She shook her voice search "collect chicken", contacted a circle, no one received, do not know when to collect.
初五晚上，她一夜没睡，突然想到，网红的关注度最高最快，说不定能帮忙呼吁一下。
On the fifth night, she did not sleep, suddenly thought that the attention of the highest and fastest, perhaps to help appeal.
她登入李佳琦、毛毛姐，以及其他60多个网红的主页和直播间，给他们发私信、写评论，求他们帮帮养鸡的人，24小时过去了，没有收到回复。
She logged on to Li Jia Qi, Sister Maomao, and more than 60 other popular Web sites and studios to send personal letters and comments to people asking them to help out with chicken farming.
她不敢在家主动提起这些，接听采访电话也要站在鸡棚外的山里面。
She didn't dare to bring them up at home, and she had to stand outside the chicken coop in the mountains.
家里没电脑，父母对互联网的了解局限于手机上的微信和抖音，“你（要采访）跟他们说不通的，他们不懂杂志、公号是什么概念。
With no computers at home, parents' knowledge of the Internet is limited to microletters and jitters on mobile phones. "You don't make sense to them. They don't understand the concepts of magazines and public numbers.
”比起来，43岁的易忠华面对媒体更主动些。
Mr Yi, 43, is more activist with the media than he is.
他加了11个养殖户的群，有人在群里发了国务院疫情督查平台的二维码，显示正在征集疫情防控线索。
He added a group of 11 farmers, someone in the group of the State Council disease surveillance platform of the two-dimensional code, showing that the collection of disease prevention and control clues.
他扫了码，仔仔细细填写上自己的情况，希望有人能帮忙。
He scanned the code, carefully filling in his profile, hoping someone would help him.
他还在一篇名为《所有畜牧行业养殖人转发起来》的文章底下留了言，随后接到了四家媒体的来电。
He also left a message at the bottom of an article entitled "All Livestock Breeders Forward," followed by a call from four media outlets.
易忠华把两位记者拉进了一个养殖户的微信群，想帮记者多了解些情况。
Yi Zhonghua two reporters into a small group of farmers, want to help reporters more information.
但在记者进群自我介绍后，群里很快出现了反对的声音，几个养殖户要求记者必须把身份证拍照发在群里，自证身份。
But after reporters into the group to introduce themselves, the group soon appeared the voice of opposition, several farmers must be photographed in the group, self-identification.
一些养殖户直接在群里指责易忠华：“这样的人少接触，不知根知底！”“是你们认识？还是你家亲戚？”“这个不能乱说话。
Some farmers directly blame Yi Zhonghua in the group: "Such people have little contact, do not know the background!" "You know? Or your relatives?" "This can not talk nonsense.
”“要是间谍呢？”.....最后有人直接威胁易忠华：你出来说话，不然马上报警！记者们退了群，易忠华觉得群里的反应他也理解，这群养殖户离媒体太远了，“办件坏事容易，你想帮忙，他们绝对不相信。
"What about spies?"... Finally someone directly threatened Yi Zhonghua: Speak out or call the police! Reporters retreated and Yi Zhonghua felt the reaction of the group was too far away from the media.
”❹“没办法，哪有什么办法？”易忠华在湖北宜昌的鸡舍，是用猪圈改的。
"Zheng" has no way, what method? "Yi Zhonghua in Hubei Yichang chicken coop, is changed with pig pen.
2019年，他和妻子花了十天时间，在猪圈上方加了一个吊顶，贴上草帘、草席、保温棉和隔热膜，还在网上买了一个烧煤的热风炉代替了小火炉，给鸡苗加温。
In 2019, he and his wife spent 10 days putting a ceiling over the pigsty, pasting straw curtains, mats, heat-insulating cotton and insulating film, and buying a coal-burning hot stove instead of a small one online to heat up the chickens.
前年这时候，易忠华还是个养猪户，到了6月，他在养猪户微信群里听说，非洲猪瘟要来了。
At this time of the year before last, Yi Zhonghua was still a pig farmer. In June, he heard from a group of pig farmers that an African swine fever was coming.
圈里的10头母猪、60头肉猪，赶在猪瘟传到宜昌之前，母猪300块一头，肉猪一斤6块，他赶紧过秤给卖了。
Circle of 10 sow, 60 pork pig, catch pig distemper passes to Yichang before, female pig 300 one head, pork a catty 6 dollars, he hurriedly weigh to sell.
据易忠华说，2019年6月，猪瘟传到了宜昌城，那些消息不灵通的人，家里的猪被赶去电死、深埋，损失比他惨痛多了。
In June 2019, according to Yi, the pig disease spread to Yichang city. Those ill-informed people were sent to live with electric shocks and buried deep in their homes.
湖北宜昌易忠华用猪圈改造的鸡舍（图片来源：易忠华）当年是几个养猪微信群救了易忠华，今年他手里握了11个养鸡群，却一点小道消息没拿到。
Yichang Yi Zhonghua pig pen in Hubei Province with the transformation of the chicken coop (Photo: Yi Zhonghua) It was a few pigs Weixin group saved Yi Zhonghua, this year he held 11 chickens, but no news.
春节前几天，易忠华在微信群看到有人转发，新冠肺炎可能对畜牧业有影响时，已经晚了，关闭活禽市场的命令已经下来了。
A few days before the Spring Festival, Yi Zhonghua in the micro-faith groups to see someone forward, the new crown pneumonia may have an impact on animal husbandry, it was too late, the order to close the live poultry market has come down.
5000只成鸡在除夕前正是出栏的时候，平常销售的市场和商户没人敢来拿了。
Five thousand adult chickens came out just before New Year's Eve, and no one dared to pick up the usual market and merchants.
20天前，他还从孵化厂接回来了6000只小鸡苗，安置在了自己搭建的温室里。
Twenty days ago, he took 6,000 chickens from the hatchery and put them in his own greenhouse.
大企业家张振刚也没逃过。
Zhang Zhengang, a big entrepreneur, did not escape.
他脑筋活泛，总是走在新闻的前面。
He is always ahead of the news because of his vivid mind.
20多年前，他在深圳被普及了“环保”的概念，回乡后养鸡场的选址就跟别人不一样，前几年掀起的禁养环保大潮，也没有波及到他的头上。
More than 20 years ago, he was popularized in Shenzhen as "environmentally friendly." He returned to his hometown with a different location.
2017年的H7N9禽流感蔓延的半个月前，他也提前察觉“有点不对劲”，把几万只大鸡都宰杀了，逃过一劫，少亏了几百万。
Half a month before the spread of H7N9 avian influenza in 2017, he also knew "something was wrong" in advance, slaughtering tens of thousands of chickens to escape capture and save millions.
这一次，他是一点都没压准。
This time he was not in the least pressured.
谁也没想到一场在外省的肺炎，会能影响到自己手头这批种蛋、鸡苗和活蹦乱跳没病没灾的大鸡上。
No one expected a case of pneumonia in the province to affect their own eggs, chicken seedlings and live chickens.
张振刚预测，照这么继续封锁三个月，三百万就打了水漂。
Zhang predicted that three million dollars would be lost if the blockade continued for three months.
不过好在，跟个体养鸡户相比，他经济实力雄厚，眼下还能坚持住。
But the good news is that he has more money than an individual chicken farmer and can hang on for now.
普通小规模散户是信息最末端的末端。
The average small-scale retail customer is the end of the information.
小颖一家在春节三四天前从抖音上得知了封路消息。
Xiaoying family in the Spring Festival three or four days ago from the shaking sound learned of the closure.
鸡的价格一天就跌到了最低，拉货的车也少了。
Chicken prices fell to their lowest level in a day, and fewer cars were hauled in.
父母好不容易联系上一家，说好了能过来。
My parents had a hard time contacting a family and agreed to come over.
当时鸡118天了，离出栏还有两天。
The chicken was 118 days away, two days from the exit.
对方中午打来电话，出价2块5。
They call at noon and offer two dollars and a half.
母亲说，不行就卖了吧，反正要赔，那就少赔一点。
His mother said, can not sell it, anyway to compensate, then less compensation.
父亲一时没舍得，要再考虑一下。
Father didn't want to think about it for a while.
半小时后打过去，对方说，不拉了。
I'll call you back half an hour later, said the other.
养鸡的决定是在2019年初下的，一家找人借了60万块钱开始养鸡。
The decision to raise chickens came in early 2019, when a family borrowed 600,000 yuan to start raising chickens.
小颖所在的胡张村距离城区两小时车程，村里都是种不了庄稼的荒地，村里人只能出门打工，做零工、钟点工。
Xiaoying in Hu Zhang village two hours away from the city, the village is unable to plant crops wasteland, the village people have to work, casual work, part-time work.
父母也在广州打工多年，年纪大了，腰也不好，工资养不起小颖和弟弟。
The parents also worked in Guangzhou for many years, the elderly, waist is not good, wages can not afford small Ying and younger brother.
父母亲盘算着做点别的。
The parents planned to do something else.
小颖的母亲看到了朋友养了鸡，一茬鸡赚了6万块钱，他们也不了解其他行业，也不认识人，决定也养鸡。
Xiao Ying's mother saw her friend raise chickens, a crop of chicken made 60,000 yuan, they do not know other industries, do not know people, decided to keep chickens.
家里存款只有两三万，找不了银行贷款，找的民间借贷利益比银行利息高，要求每年还十万。
With only two or three thousand dollars in savings, I cannot find a bank loan. The private loan interest rate is higher than that of the bank, which demands 100,000 a year.
他们买了村里的一块靠着山的荒地，建场地，买全自动的设备，再去登记领一个牌照，准备赌一把。
They bought a piece of wasteland next to the mountain in the village, built the site, bought fully automated equipment, registered for a license plate and prepared to gamble.
一家人也想到了，禽流感刚过去两年多，应该不会那么快再出来了。
The family also thought that bird flu had been around for more than two years and should not come out so soon.
但现在，活禽市场关闭了，鸡没有人收，饲料也运不进来，小颖一家的饲料最多能撑三天了。
But now that the live poultry market is closed, and the chickens are empty and the fodder can't be brought in, the little Ying family can hold out for up to three days.
小颖不敢在家提这件事，一提父母就会哭。
Xiaoying dare not mention this matter at home, mention the parents will cry.
父母两个人每晚坐在家里哭，说天灾没法。
The parents sat at home crying every night, saying it was impossible.
非洲猪瘟之后，易忠华一家人没了存款，初中学历的易忠华在百度上搜索，自学了建温室和养鸡流程。
After African pig distemper, Yi Zhonghua family did not have the deposit, junior high school education Yi Zhonghua search on Baidu, self-taught to build greenhouses and chicken process.
5000个鸡苗、疫苗、保健药，再加上热风炉，他向亲朋好友借了四、五万块钱，都投了进去。
Five thousand chickens, vaccines, and health-care pills, plus a hot stove, he borrowed forty or fifty thousand dollars from his friends and relatives, and put them in.
吃了四个月饲料的5000只成鸡没地方卖，易忠华现在欠了15万饲料厂的债，利息还在滚。
Five thousand adult chickens, which had been fed for four months, had no place to sell, and Yi now owed 150,000 fodder factories with interest rolling.
他盘算着出门打工，但他觉得，如今一个湖北人去了外头，是要被歧视的。
He planned to go out to work, but he felt that now a Hubei people to go outside, is to be discriminated against.
他或许要重新只种柑橘过活了，他估计，手上的债一家人要还上三到五年，“没办法，哪有什么办法？”眼下，那11个微信群里，每天都在流传类似的埋鸡视频。
He would probably have to grow only oranges again, and he estimated that the family would have to pay back three to five years' worth of debt, "No way, what's the deal?" At the moment, similar videos of burying chickens are circulating every day in the 11 micromail swarm.
易忠华已经计划好了，等11岁的女儿上了学，饲料彻底被吃光了，他就在如今散养鸡的地方挖一个三米的大坑，十个平方就够了，把这几千只鸡通通处理了。
Yi Zhonghua already planned, when the 11-year-old daughter went to school, the feed was completely eaten, he is now scattered chicken where dug a big hole, 10 square meters is enough to deal with the thousands of chickens.
❺等待好消息一封给畜牧局的申请信，依然在不同省份的养殖户微信群里流传，申请人永远是：畜禽养殖生产者。
A letter of application to the Animal Husbandry Bureau is still circulating among farmers in different provinces, and the applicants are always: livestock and poultry producers.
落款的时间，从1月30日，又被自发地改到了1月31日。
The time of the signing, from January 30, was changed spontaneously to January 31.
河南开封，李涛手上还有一万多只运不走的麻肉鸡，20天前就出栏了。
In Kaifeng, Henan Province, Li Tao still has more than 10, 000 hens that can't be transported.
他经历过禽流感，埋过鸡，最后拿到了政府的补贴，赔得不算多。
He had experienced bird flu, buried chickens and received a modest government subsidy.
现在，他不得不盼着第二次补贴的可能。
Now he has to wait for the possibility of a second subsidy.
山东泰安的刘玉升倒是觉得，补贴有更好，没有也不奢求。
Shandong Taian's Liu Yu-sheng is actually felt that the subsidy has better, no and not extravagant.
他说做生意有亏有赚，要是亏了，“责任大头还在自己身上，说明你在这个行业里修行还不够。
He said there were losses and gains to be made from doing business, and if he lost, "the fact that you still have a lot of responsibility for yourself shows that you are not doing enough to practice in this field.
”张振刚和他的养鸡场（图片来源：张振刚）张振刚没能变成最早躲开危机的人，这一次，他成了当地最早一批把鸡活埋的养鸡户。
Zhang Zhengang and his chicken farm (Source: Zhang Zhengang) Zhang Zhengang was not among the first to escape the crisis, this time becoming the first local chicken farmers to bury the chickens alive.
“长痛不如短痛”，他知道不下狠心埋，养大了卖出去，亏损只会比现在更多。
"Long pain is better than short pain," he knows not to be cruel, raised to sell, the loss will only be more than now.
他的手机上安装了很多新闻客户端，从本地的大河网到人民网、新华网，“只有官方发的东西我相信”。
His handset is equipped with many news clients, from the local big river network to the people's website, Xinhua, "only official things I believe."
正月初五，张振刚联系上当地的红十字会，再辗转联系上湖北分会，打算把卖不出去的鸡蛋捐到武汉去。
On the fifth day of the first month, Zhang Zhengang contacted the local Red Cross, then contact Hubei branch, with the intention of selling the eggs to Wuhan.
数目他都想好了，拉一车，五吨鸡蛋。
He's all set. Pull a load of five tons of eggs.
对方感谢了他的好意，说，我们现在急缺医疗物资，其它暂时不收，等以后需要，会再给你回电话。
The other side thanked him for his kindness, saying that we are in urgent need of medical supplies, that the rest will not be collected for the time being, and that we will call you back when we need it.
张振刚天天等着这个回电，好像只有把这些鸡蛋捐出去，他心里才会踏实一点。
Zhang Zhengang every day waiting for this call back, as if only donated these eggs, his heart will be a little more comfortable.
但现在，能做的只剩等待，等村里不再封路，等屠宰场、饲料厂上班，等活禽交易市场开放，等着疫情过去。
But now, all that can be done is wait for the village to stop blocking the road, wait for the slaughterhouse, feed factory to work, wait for the live poultry market to open and wait for the epidemic to pass.
张振刚坐在他的鸡场，他手里的7万只种鸡，每天还在不管不顾地下蛋。
Zhang Zhengang sat on his chicken farm, his 70, 000 chickens, each day regardless of the underground eggs.
小颖、王萍、佳宁、秀姐为化名GQ报道正在征集疫情防治的相关采访信息，如果您身处疫区、受到疫情影响，或是了解对疫情防治有促进作用的各类信息，欢迎随时与我们联系！无论您是医护人员、患者及家属、疑似患者、物资供应方、运输方、志愿者、疫区服务业人员、了解疫情知识的专业人士……我们随时准备听到您的声音！您可以在本文评论区、公众号后台留言，或发送邮件至gqreport@163.com留下您的联系方式和您能够提供的信息摘要，我们会第一时间与您取得联系。
Xiao Ying, Wang Ping, Jia Ning, Xiujie report for the alias GQ is collecting relevant information on epidemic prevention and treatment. If you are in epidemic area, affected by epidemic situation, or know more about epidemic prevention and control, please contact us at any time.
让我们一起努力，共渡难关！在公众号后台回复彩蛋，送你一个彩蛋采访、撰文：洪蔚琳、李颖迪、吴呈杰、戴敏洁编辑：刘敏运营编辑：肖呱呱。
Let's work together to tide over the difficulties! Reply eggs backstage from the public, send you a colorful egg interview, write: Hong Wei Lin, Li Yingdi, Wu Chengjie, editor: Liu Min-operation Editor: Xiao Qian.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
鸡在瘟疫蔓延时。
The chickens spread when the plague spread.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "GQ报道";。
Var nickname = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
var msg_title = "鸡在瘟疫蔓延时";。
var msg _ title = & quot; chicken at & quot; when the plague spread;;
var msg_desc = "疫情阴影下的鸡鸭鹅养殖户";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; duck & quot; in the shadow of the epidemic.
title: '外卖骑手、出租车司机、快递员、志愿者……封城九日，他们维护着武汉的血脉',。
Ride out riders, taxi drivers, couriers, and volunteers... Found City 9, and they maintain Wuhan's blood at & apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '疫情中的心理援助：寻找局部的安全',。
AT & P: Psychological assistance in the epidemic: Looking for local security & amp; apos;.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
title: '恐慌很正常，当疫情结束，才是心理问题高发期',。
AT & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; when the epidemic ended.
subject_name: 'GQ报道',。
Subject _ name: & apos; GQ report & amp; apos;.
var title ="GQ报道";。
var title = & quot; GQ report & quot;;
