感染后，他选择回家给发热患者网上看病，把床位留给病人。
After the infection, he chose to go home to the feverish patients online, leaving beds for patients.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
从医17年，作为武汉三甲医院急救中心医生的李春觉得自己“从来没有这么无助过”。
After 17 years as a doctor, Li Chun, a doctor at Wuhan Sanjia Hospital Emergency Medical Center, said he had never been so helpless.
图 | 视觉中国他在临床接触过各种各样高传染性的疾病，从没怕过。
Vision China He has been exposed to a variety of highly infectious diseases in clinical settings, and has never been afraid of them.
但当他得知自己被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎，并随后传染给妻子、两个女儿、岳父母时，他开始害怕了，也第一次怀疑自己，“作为医生，连家里人都保护不了，你还相信你能保护谁？”特殊时期，武汉所有医院的床位资源都很紧张，为了不占用其他病人床位，李春决定举家隔离治疗。
But when he learned that he had been diagnosed with pneumonia for the new coronavirus infection and then passed it on to his wife, two daughters and parents-in-law, he became frightened and for the first time suspected himself, "As a doctor, you can not even protect the family, you believe you can protect?
好消息是，他已经进入康复期，家人目前也都症状轻微。
The good news is that he is already recovering and his family is showing mild symptoms.
居家隔离这段时间，李春坚持为发热病人网上问诊。
Home isolation this time, Li Chun insisted for febrile patients online consultation.
前来咨询的患者数量上限一天天在刷新。
The maximum number of patients coming for consultation is being refreshed day by day.
他知道，如果真是新冠肺炎，这种问诊不太可能给患者带来什么实际的帮助，但能给那些“惶恐且无助的病人”哪怕一点点希望，也是好的。
He knew that if it was new crown pneumonia, such a visit would be unlikely to be of any practical help to the patient, but it would be good to give even the slightest hope to the "frightened and helpless."
李春和我们分享了他人生中最惶恐的这段日子。
Li Chun shared with us the most frightening period of his life.
以下是他的自述：12020年1月8日，我所在医院的急救中心被抽用作发热病房，病情严重的发烧病人都要在我们这里观察三天，进行核酸检测确认是否感染新型冠状病毒。
The following is his self-report: On January 8, 2020, the emergency center of my hospital was pumped into a fever ward, where patients with severe fever were observed for three days for nucleic acid tests to confirm their presence of the new coronavirus.
我们急救中心一共15张病床，最开始每天还能勉强维持发热门诊需要住院的病人的收治。
With a total of 15 beds, we were able to barely sustain the hospitalized patients at the fever clinic at the start of the day.
但随着疫情的发展，到了1月10日，每天需要住院的急重症病人就有30-50人，而我们常规满床最多只能收治22人。
But as the epidemic unfolded, by January 10 there were 30 to 50 patients in acute and serious condition who needed to be hospitalized every day, compared with a maximum of 22 in our regular beds.
也是从那个时候开始，我和同事们开始了连轴转的工作。
It was also at that time that my colleagues and I began to work together.
80多位医护人员，绝大多数再没回过家。
Of the more than 80 paramedics, the vast majority never returned home.
春节也是在医院过的。
Spring Festival is also in the hospital.
防护服穿脱不方便，为了减少去洗手间，我们不敢多喝水，饿了吃医院的工作餐，困了就在医院的休息区对付一下。
Wear protective clothing inconvenient, in order to reduce the need to go to the bathroom, we dare not drink more water, hungry for hospital meals, sleepy on the rest area of the hospital to deal with.
1月18日，我开始发热、咳嗽，不过CT还是正常的。
On January 18, I began to have a fever and cough, but CT was still normal.
我觉得我顶多也就是个上呼吸道感染，就是感冒呗，休息休息就好了。
I think I am also a top respiratory tract infection at best, is the cold, rest just fine.
但两三天后，通过核酸检测和影像学诊断，我被确诊了。
But two or three days later, through nucleic acid testing and imaging diagnosis, I was diagnosed.
现在回想起来，可能是因为1月5日到8日那段无保护暴露史。
In retrospect, it may be due to the unprotected exposure from January 5 to 8.
1月5日那天，我们接诊了一个从地县级医院转诊过来的61岁重症肺炎患者。
On January 5, we treated a 61-year-old patient with severe pneumonia referred from a local county hospital.
根据当时的诊断标准，患者必须有华南海鲜市场的接触史，才会考虑新冠肺炎。
According to the diagnostic criteria at the time, patients had to have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market before considering new crown pneumonia.
但这位患者没有。
But the patient didn't.
我们只是把他安排在隔离区域，以重症肺炎收治观察。
We just put him in a quarantined area for observation of severe pneumonia.
没想到，后来我和同组的3位护士全部中标。
I didn't expect that all three nurses in my group won the bid later.
由于疫情发展较快，我们医院的床位非常紧张，一些病人需要等几天才能入院，为了不占用医院的床位资源，我决定回家自我隔离治疗。
Due to the rapid development of the epidemic, our hospital beds are very tight, some patients need to wait a few days before admission, in order not to occupy the hospital bed resources, I decided to go home to self-isolation treatment.
2我自己诊断开药，发热就吃一些退烧药，加强营养，摄入高蛋白、高能量的食物，熬过了最难受的几天，烧退了。
I diagnosed the medicine myself, took some antipyretics on fever, enhanced nutrition, intake of high protein, high energy food, survived the worst days, burned out.
但另一个坏消息来了。
But there's another bad news.
因为我1月17日晚上回过一趟家，我的爱人、两个女儿、岳父母，开始陆续出现发热、咳嗽和乏力的症状。
As I returned home on the evening of January 17, my wife, my two daughters, and my parents-in-law began to develop symptoms of fever, coughing and fatigue.
他们被我感染了。
They're infected with me.
做了快20年医生，我从来不会因为什么事情紧张。
I've been a doctor for almost 20 years, and I've never been nervous about anything.
什么病我没见过？禽流感、艾滋病，还有很多高传染性的病，我都见过，也没怕过。
What disease have I never seen? Avian influenza, AIDS, and many highly contagious diseases, I have seen, not afraid.
但这一次，我怕了。
But this time I was afraid.
那种感觉，就是一种病毒超越了你的专业、你的掌控能力的无力感。
The feeling is that a virus is beyond the reach of your profession, your ability to control.
平时我们ICU就是给所有病人保底的，各个科室搞不定的，我们都能搞定。
Usually we ICU is for all patients, all the departments are uncertain, we can do it.
但现在，我们给别人保不了底了。
But right now, we can't protect anyone else.
我们自己都中标了。
We all won the bid ourselves.
就好像，最后一道防线，没了。
It's like the last line of defense. It's gone.
我从来没有这么无助过。
I've never been so helpless.
我不害怕病毒，就怕自己家人受伤。
I'm not afraid of the virus. I'm afraid my family will get hurt.
尽管他们现在还是轻症，在我的治疗下也在逐渐恢复，但我总担心，家里老人、爱人十几天之后会不会有反复？他们的肺，以后能恢复成什么样子？会不会有后遗症？没有人能回答，没有人有经验……而这一切，是我造成的。
Although they are still mild and are recovering under my treatment, I am always worried that the elderly and loved ones will have a relapse after 10 days. What will their lungs look like in the future? Will there be sequelae? No one can answer, no one has experience... and all this is my fault.
作为医生，连自己家里人都保护不了，你还相信你能保护谁？32月3日应该是这段时间以来，我心情最好的一天。
As a doctor, you can't even protect your family, who do you believe you can protect? 32.32.This should be the best day I've had in my life.
因为家里老人的情况稳定了点。
Because the old people at home are a little more stable.
前几天他们因为乏力起不来床的时候，我真的非常非常焦虑。
I was really, really anxious the other day when they couldn't get out of bed because of fatigue.
这些天，有空的时候，我也通过我们医院的公众号，为发烧病人在线看病。
These days, when free, I also use our hospital's public number to help patients with fever online.
1月28日晚上8点多第一次上线，一口气就看到了深夜一两点，加上第二天早上，一共看了大概200多人。
January 28 more than 8: 00 pm the first time to go on line, one or two in the middle of the night, plus the next morning, a total of about 200 people.
其实，为了保证看病质量，医院限制我们每天最多看50个人。
In fact, in order to ensure the quality of care, hospitals limit our visits to a maximum of 50 people per day.
我一上线就调整到200个——以我看急诊的量，可以处理这么多。
I adjusted it to 200 as soon as I went online - so much for the emergency.
但没想到，第一天就超标。
But I didn't expect it on day one.
第二天，我调整到300个……现在把上限调整成多少，就会有多少患者。
The next day, I adjusted it to 300... and now that the ceiling is adjusted, there will be as many patients.
打开手机，源源不断的咨询请求，手机的运行速度根本跟不上。
With mobile phones on and endless requests for advice, they simply can't keep up.
图 | 视觉中国大部分是发热病人。
Vision China has a large proportion of febrile patients.
有的正在居家隔离；有的考虑是新冠肺炎但还没有去看；有的咨询说没有床位，不知道该怎么办；还有一些咨询目前状况下，老人和孕妇该怎么办；还有人介绍自己一段时间的出行痕迹，问我他有没有感染的可能……我能感受到，这些病人是非常恐慌且无助的。
Some are being quarantined at home; others are thinking of pneumonia but haven't gone; some are counselled about not having beds and don't know what to do; still others are talking about their travel history for a while and asking me if he might be infected... I can sense that these patients are very scared and helpless.
每一个人都很无助。
Everyone is helpless.
以前病人网上咨询，一般都是上传病例图片、随便打几十个字，简单问一下。
Previously patients online consultation, is generally upload case pictures, casually dozens of characters, a simple question.
现在我看到的咨询都是写大几千字。
The advice I see now is about a thousand words.
我甚至能想象，在屏幕对面，那些五六十岁的人，在手机上花好几个小时，敲下了这些字。
I can even imagine people in their fifties and sixties, across the screen, typing these words for hours on their mobile phones.
他们肯定是没有办法了才会这样。
There must be no other way for them to do this.
他们没有办法，只能通过这种方式，试图寻找一点希望。
They have no choice but to try to find a bit of hope in this way.
说实话，如果真是新冠肺炎，通过网上咨询的方式，也并不能帮他们解决什么实际问题。
To tell the truth, if it is really new crown pneumonia, through online consultation, also do not help them solve any practical problems.
但是，我的回复如果能给焦急恐慌的人们希望，哪怕只有一点，也是好的。
But my response would be good if it gave anxious and panicked people hope for even a little.
马上，我要去复查了，如果核酸检测转阴，没有传染性了，我就要回去上班了。
In a minute, I'm going back to work if the nucleic acid test turns cloudy and it's not contagious.
我们科里医生已经不够了，我要去补位。
We don't have enough of Doctor Corey. I need to make up for it.
同事们，我快回来了！等疫情过去，我想抱一抱我的小孩。
Colleagues, I am coming back soon! When the epidemic is over, I want to hold my baby in my arms.
我的大公主和小公主，我已经很久没有抱过她们了。
My eldest princess and my youngest princess, I haven't held them for a long time.
（文中医生为「中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金」受助人。
(The doctor is a recipient of the Humanitarian Aid Fund for Chinese Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Workers.
应受助人要求，李春为化名。
At the request of recipients, Li Chun is an alias.
）中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金2020年1月25日，今日头条、抖音、西瓜视频母公司字节跳动向中国红十字基金会捐赠2亿元人民币设立“中国红十字基金会字节跳动医务工作者人道救助基金”，为抗击疫情一线医务工作者提供保障。
) China Red Cross Foundation Byte Beat Medical Worker Humanitarian Aid Fund China Red Cross Foundation humanitarian relief fund for byte jumping medical workers The Chinese Red Cross Foundation has donated 200 million yuan to the China Red Cross Foundation to set up a humanitarian relief fund for byte beating medical workers to protect front-line medical workers against the epidemic.
截至2020年2月3日，该专项基金已经为七批共67名抗击疫情一线医务工作者提供人道救助。
As at 3 February 2020, the Fund had provided humanitarian assistance to seven groups of 67 frontline health workers fighting the epidemic.
其中，为64名因抗击疫情而不幸感染的一线医务人员，每人资助10万元；为3名因抗击疫情而不幸殉职的一线医务人员，每个家庭资助100万元。
Of these, $100,000 was provided to each of the 64 frontline medical personnel who were unfortunately infected as a result of the outbreak, and $1 million to each of the three frontline medical personnel who lost their lives in the fight against the outbreak.
文末点击“阅读原文”申请字节跳动医务救助基金（部分图片来自字节跳动）设计排版：宋嘉慧。
At the end of the article, click "Read the original" application byte beating medical aid fund (some pictures from the byte beat) design layout: Song Jiahui.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
感染后，他选择回家给发热患者网上看病，把床位留给病人。
After the infection, he chose to go home to the feverish patients online, leaving beds for patients.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "感染后，他选择回家给发热患者网上看病，把床位留给病人";。
var msg _ title = & quot; after the infection, he chose to go home to see a fever patient online, leaving his bed at & quot; & quot;;
var msg_desc = "向奋战在一线的医护工作者致敬！";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; paid tribute to the health care workers who fought on the front line!;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
