抗击新冠，瑞德西韦进入III期临床试验。
Against the new crown, Rhetsevir entered phase III clinical trials.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
新冠病毒肺炎的临床治疗有了新进展：一款未上市的药物在一名美国重症患者身上使用后，症状得到了明显缓解。
New progress has been made in the clinical management of New Crown Virus Pneumonia: Symptoms have eased dramatically after an unmarketed drug was used in a critically ill American patient.
这款叫做瑞德西韦（remdesivir）的药物也一夜之间受到了前所未有的关注，几天之内中国药监局确认受理瑞德西韦的临床试验申请，并于2月3日由中日友好医院曹彬教授牵头，直接开启III期临床。
The drug, called remdesivir, also received unprecedented attention overnight, and within days the Chinese Drug Administration confirmed that it had accepted Radesiveh's application for clinical trials, led by Professor Cao Bin, a Sino-Japanese friendly hospital, on February 3.
目前有消息显示，瑞德西韦于今日下午抵达国内。
News has emerged that Rhetsevier arrived in the country this afternoon.
本刊向曹彬求证药物效果时，他回应，“目前进行的是双盲实验，也就是说，患者与医生都不清楚所服用的究竟是试验药还是安慰剂，一定要等到揭盲时才能确信药物效果。
"What is going on is a double-blind trial, that is, neither the patient nor the doctor knows whether they are taking a trial or a placebo, and it is important to wait until the drug is revealed," he said.
”这款药，是否真能改变当下新冠病毒感染无药可医的局面？记者 | 严岩作用于美国确诊新冠患者的“神药”1月19日，一名35岁的男子被送入了华盛顿州的一家急救诊所。
Can the drug really change the current situation where there is no cure for infection with the new crown? A 35-year-old man was admitted to an emergency clinic in Washington state on January 19.
第二天，他就被确诊为美国首个新冠病毒肺炎患者。
The next day, he was confirmed as the first person in the United States to have pneumonia.
据他说，几天前他曾短暂地返回武汉探亲，并在1月15日返回美国。
According to him, he briefly returned to Wuhan a few days ago to visit his family and returned to the United States on 15 January.
在去医院之前，他已连续咳嗽了4天，也有发烧的症状。
He had been coughing for four days and had fever before going to the hospital.
由于关注到美国疾控中心发出的关于中国新冠病毒的健康警报，他这才决定去医院确认一下。
He decided to go to the hospital to confirm his concerns about a health alert issued by the CDC about the Chinese New Crown virus.
不过，他不但没有在华南海鲜市场待过，也没有在武汉期间与任何患者有过接触。
However, he did not stay in the South China Seafood Market, nor did he have any contact with any patients while in Wuhan.
通过检测，他的鼻咽和口咽拭子检测为2019-nCoV阳性，随后他就被送入了当地医疗中心的隔离病房。
After being tested positive for 2019-nCoV swabs on his nasopharynx and oropharynx, he was taken to the isolation ward of the local medical centre.
在此期间，医院采取的是比较保守的治疗。
During this period, the hospital adopted a more conservative treatment.
直到住院的第5天晚上（也就是患病的第9天），医生发现他的胸片显示左肺下叶开始有肺炎的迹象，与此同时，通过血氧计测量的氧饱和度降低至90%（健康状况下，人的血氧饱和度为94%-100%）。
On the fifth night of hospitalization (the ninth day of the illness), the doctor found that his chest film showed signs of pneumonia beginning to appear in the lower lobe of the left lung, while oxygen saturation measured by a blood oxygen meter decreased to 90 per cent (94-100 per cent of human blood oxygen saturation in health conditions).
很快，第6天时他的病情就开始恶化。
Soon, on the sixth day, his condition began to deteriorate.
他开始需要补充氧气，医生听诊时也发现他的两肺有啰音，他开始发烧。
He began to need oxygen, and when the doctor was attending the hearing, he noticed that his lungs were noisy and he began to have a fever.
在病情明显恶化，而治疗毫无进展的情况下，医生在第7天为其静脉注射了一款未上市的药物瑞德西韦（remdesivir），第二天他的血氧浓度就上升到了94%以上，医生发现他肺部的啰音消失了，食欲也有了明显的恢复。
After his condition deteriorated markedly and no progress was made, doctors injected the unmarketed drug remdesivir into his veins on the seventh day, and on the following day his blood oxygen concentration rose to more than 94%.
截至1月30日，他虽然仍在住院，但除了咳嗽外，他所有的症状都有了缓解。
As of 30 January, although he was still in hospital, all his symptoms had eased except for his cough.
1月31日，《新英格兰医学杂志》（NEJM）报道了这个美国首例新冠病毒患者缓慢康复的过程。
On January 31, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) reported on the slow recovery of the nation's first case of the new crown virus.
值得注意的是，在临床治疗中使用的“瑞德西韦”是一款并未上市，目前仍处于临床研发阶段的药物。
It is worth noting that Rhetsevir, used in clinical treatment, is an unmarketed drug that is still in the clinical development stage.
早期由吉利德公司（Gilead Sciences）针对埃博拉病毒研发，目前已经完成III期临床试验。
Early development of the Ebola virus by Gilead Sciences has completed phase III clinical trials.
普遍的疑问是：首先药物研发通常都花费很长时间，会否药物还没研发完毕，疫情都已经过去了？更何况这还只是在美国做的临床试验，按照标准操作，如果药品想在中国上市则需要重新做临床试验。
The general doubt is that drug development usually takes a long time to develop, whether drugs have not yet been developed, and the epidemic is over, not to mention clinical trials in the US that would need to be redone if the drug is to be marketed in China.
其次，药品既然未上市，这名美国的患者是通过什么方式用的药？好消息是，中国国家药监局药品审评中心（CDE）官网显示，已正式受理瑞德西韦的临床试验申请。
Second, since the drug is not on the market, how did the American patient use it? The good news is that the official website of the Drug Review Center (CDE) of the State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision and Administration of China (SFDA) has officially accepted Rhetsevier's application for clinical trials.
自2月3日起，随机、双盲、设置安慰剂对照的III期临床试验将由中日友好医院曹彬教授牵头进行，270例轻、中度新冠肺炎患者将入组，目的是评估该款药物在抑制新冠病毒感染上的安全性和有效性。
Since February 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase III clinical trials will be led by Professor Cao Bin, a Sino-Japanese friendly hospital, and 270 patients with mild to moderate new crown pneumonia will be included in the group to assess the drug's safety and efficacy in suppressing infection with the new crown virus.
“瑞德西韦这个药针对埃博拉病毒的细胞实验是有效的，临床安全性是可以的，但是临床效果的数据现在还没有。
"Rhetsevir is effective in cell testing for Ebola and clinically safe, but data on clinical efficacy are not yet available.
经过国家相关管理部门批准，伦理委员会的审核，我国紧急启动临床III期的做法，在一定范围内是可以的。
After the approval of the relevant state administrative departments and the examination of the ethics committee, China's emergency operation of the third phase of clinical practice, in a certain scope is possible.
”北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生在此前接受采访时如此说道。
Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Beijing Concorde Hospital, said earlier in an interview.
要知道，此前若按照规章流程的话，一个新药的临床申请，CDE在60天之内才会给药企答复。
To be sure, CDE does not respond to a clinical application for a new drug until 60 days after compliance with regulations.
这也符合“特事特办”的原则。
This is also consistent with the principle of "special operations."
“由于抗病毒的药物和突发事件有直接相关性，此次新冠病毒的疫情成为公共卫生事件后，一般不会用过去常规的途径批药。
"Since there is a direct correlation between antiviral drugs and emergencies, this outbreak of the new crown virus is a public health event that will not normally be approved in the usual way."
而且这个疾病的发展进程就是几天，非常快，临床上也相对容易看出来效果。
And the progression of the disease is a matter of days, very fast, and relatively easy to see clinically.
”邬征告诉本刊。
Wu Zheng told this print.
他是前罗氏（Roche）集团抗病毒研发部的负责人，目前创业研发的药物与呼吸道合胞病毒（RSV）有关。
He is the head of the antiviral research and development division of the former Roche group, which is currently developing drugs linked to respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).
自然界有十几种病毒可以感染人类的呼吸道，此次疫情的主角冠状病毒也是其中一类。
There are more than a dozen viruses in nature that can infect the human respiratory tract. The coronavirus is one of them.
“如果与大家比较关注的抗癌药的研发做比较的话，大部分抗感染药物的临床试验时间确实短一些。
"If we compare the development of anticancer drugs, which are of more concern, the clinical trials of most anti-infective drugs do take a little longer.
这主要是因为药物的靶点就在病毒上面，安全窗口更大，在临床上进行得更快，而抗癌药物的靶点是人身上的蛋白，临床设计时需要考虑的更多”。
This is mainly because the drug targets the virus, the safety window is larger, it works faster clinically, and anticancer drugs target proteins in the human body and need to be considered more in clinical design.
据悉，瑞德西韦的临床试验预计在4月27日结束，“虽然预计4月结束，但如果药效好的话，试验会提前结束的”。
The clinical trial of Rhetsevier is expected to be completed on April 27. "Although it is expected to end in April, if it works well, the trial will end sooner," it said.
国家药品审评中心首席科学家钱家华在此前接受采访时表示。
Qian Jiahua, chief scientist at the National Drug Review Center, said in an interview earlier.
同情用药=生的希望？至于为何该美国患者可以使用未上市的药物，原因则基于一个叫做“同情用药”（Compassionate Use）的机制。
As for why the US patient could use unmarketed drugs, the reason is based on a mechanism called Compassioned Use.
该制度是FDA 于2009年出台的特别政策，即患者如果出现紧急、危及生命的疾病并且无药可医时，医生们可以申请使用未上市，并且仍然在研发过程中的药物。
The system is a special FDA policy introduced in 2009 that allows doctors to apply for drugs that are not on the market and that are still being developed if there is an emergency, life-threatening disease and no medicine is available.
这个机制的触发条件也比较苛刻，诸如患者病情必须极度危急，并且人体临床试验也无法开展的情况等。
The trigger conditions for this mechanism are also more stringent, such as when the patient's condition must be extremely critical and human clinical trials are not possible.
美国FDA官网上也罗列出了详细批准的数据：2017年仅批准1000多个患者提出的同情用药的申请。
The FDA's official website also lists detailed approved data: applications for compassionate medication for more than 1,000 patients will be approved in 2017.
“同情用药”机制的存在，对患者来说就是其生存的希望。
The existence of "sympathetic medication" mechanism is the hope of survival for patients.
中国药监局在2017年也出台了中国版的同情用药征求意见书，这也是给予管理部门在严格管理新药审批的同时多一定的灵活性。
In 2017, the China Pharmaceutical Regulatory Authority also issued a Chinese edition of the Request for Compassionate Drug Use, which gives management some flexibility while strictly regulating the approval of new drugs.
邬征告诉本刊，“我们之前在土耳其做呼吸道合胞病毒的II期临床，当时也曾在合适条件下启用了同情用药。
"We were in Turkey for stage II respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and compassionate medication was used under appropriate conditions," Wu told the magazine.
现在中日友好医院的曹彬教授的临床在同步开展的情况下，同情用药并不是就不能进行了。
Now Professor Cao Bin of the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital is in sync with the development of the case, sympathy medication is not impossible.
尤其现在的疫情正是符合无药可治的情况，这又是一款临床做了很多试验的药物。
Especially now the epidemic is in line with the situation of no cure, this is a lot of clinical trials of the drug.
如果病人生命受到威胁且无药可医，医生使用在研药物是符合伦理的”。
If the patient's life is threatened and no medicine is available, it is ethical for doctors to use the drugs in research.
关于为何一款针对埃博拉的药物可能会对此次的新冠病毒肺炎患者起效，本刊采访了从事病毒学基础科研多年的绍裕。
To find out why an Ebola-specific drug might be effective for patients with Newcomovirus pneumonia, this print interviewed Shaoyu, who has been engaged in basic virology research for many years.
他提到，“无论是HIV，SARS还是此次的新型冠状病毒，他们都是RNA病毒。
"Whether it is HIV, SARS or the new coronavirus, they are RNA viruses," he said.
在病毒的生命周期中，都需要依赖宿主细胞内的RNA聚合酶来完成其自身的转录或复制过程。
During the life cycle of a virus, RNA polymerase within the host cell is relied upon to complete its own transcription or replication.
这也是此前王广发教授提到那款HIV的药物似乎对他起效的原因之一，因为药物的作用机制相同，因而那款药也能对SARS和新型冠状病毒起到抑制作用。
This is one of the reasons Professor Wang Guangfa mentioned that the HIV drug seemed to work for him, because the drugs work in the same way, so the drug can also inhibit SARS and the new coronavirus.
现在的临床治疗基本还是以SARS的经验在操作，新冠与SARS又高度同源，致病机制相同，基于吉利德这款药此前的临床实践，我们也有理由相信该药物能够对新冠起到一定疗效”。
The current clinical treatment is based on SARS experience, the new crown and SARS are highly homologous, the pathogenesis is the same, based on Geely's previous clinical practice, we also have reason to believe that the drug will have some effect on the new crown.
绍裕的解释，是指出了抗病毒药物的“广谱作用机制”，“换句话说，从理论上来看，这款药物会对依赖宿主RNA聚合酶功能的RNA病毒都具有一定抑制作用。
Mr Shaoyu's explanation points to the "broad spectrum mechanism" of antiviral drugs, "in other words, the drug would theoretically have a dampening effect on RNA viruses that rely on host RNA polymerase function."
做个不是那么恰当的类比，泰诺（成分为对乙酰氨基酚，主要功能为退烧）就是广谱的退烧药，除了可以用作抗流感，也可以用于很多感染或非引起的感染发热。
By a less apt analogy, Tyleno (acetaminophen, whose main function is to reduce fever) is a broad-spectrum antipyretic that can be used not only to fight influenza, but also to febrile many infections or non-associated infections.
”但是，以上仅仅是从药物到底是如何起效做的解释，这款药物是否对患病人群都有效，是否适合大规模推广，则依然需要等待临床试验的数据验证。
But that is just how well the drug works, whether it works for the affected population and whether it is suitable for large-scale replication still awaits data from clinical trials.
药效未定，抢药已开始对此，吉利德方面的表态也非常谨慎，“瑞德西韦是在研药物，没有针对2019-nCo的数据，瑞德西韦的安全性和有效性也尚未被证实。
The efficacy is uncertain, the drugs are starting to rush, and Geely is taking a cautious stance. "Rhetsevir is developing the drug, no data for 2019-nCo, and the safety and efficacy of Rhetsevir have not been proven."
对于美国的案例，治疗医生权衡了风险和获益后提出用药请求，在当地监管机构的支持下，吉利德提供瑞德西韦用于少数 2019-nCoV感染者的急症治疗。
In the case of the US, where therapists have weighed the risks against the benefits, and with the support of local regulators, Geely has provided Rhetsevir for emergency care for a small number of 2019-nCoV patients.
我们也在推进使用2019-nCoV病毒样本对瑞德西韦进行适当的实验室测试。
We are also promoting appropriate laboratory testing of Rhetsevir using 2019-nCoV samples.
尽管目前没有抗病毒数据显示瑞德西韦对于2019-nCoV的活性，但其针对其它冠状病毒的有效数据给了我们希望。
Although there are no antiviral data available on Rhetsevir's activity for 2019-nCoV, its available data for other coronavirus gives us hope.
在体外和动物模型中，瑞德西韦证实了对非典型性肺炎（SARS）和中东呼吸综合征（MERS）的病毒病原体均有活性，它们也属于冠状病毒，且与2019-nCoV在结构上非常相似。
In vitro and in animal models, Rhetsevir has demonstrated the presence of viral pathogens in atypical pneumonia (SARS) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), which are also coronavirus and are very similar in structure to 2019-nCoV.
”反观之，此前因使用艾伯维（AbbVie）的抗艾药物“洛匹那韦利托那韦片”（商品名：克力芝），病征得到大幅度缓解的北大第一医院王广发主任，即便在报道中反复强调，这只是他的个人情况，无法确定对其他病患是否有效。
In contrast, Wang Guangfa, director of Peking University Hospital No. 1, whose symptoms have been greatly relieved by the use of AbbVie's anti-HIV drug "Lopinavelitonavir" (trade name: Kaletra), even though it was repeatedly stressed in the report that it was his personal condition and could not be determined to be effective against other patients.
然而，现实情况依然是有大量“疑似病例”通过走私等地下渠道买药卖药，处方药克力芝甚至一度被炒至千元。
The reality, however, is that there are still a large number of "suspected cases" of drugs sold through clandestine channels such as smuggling, with the prescription drug Kaletra once fired to 1,000 yuan.
本刊联系到两位“被要求”卖药的艾滋病患者，他们提到，“有人还特别振振有词，说卫健委第四版的诊疗方案强调，在没有有效的抗病毒药物之前，可以试用克力芝，我愿意付钱买你还不卖吗？”而此前接受媒体采访的北京协和医院感染内科主任李太生则强调，克力芝是处方药的必要性之一就是该药有副作用，贸然使用可能出现腹泻、高血糖、肝功能异常的情况。
"Some people particularly argue that the fourth edition of the clinic emphasizes that I can try Kaletra before effective antiviral drugs are available," Li Tai-sheng, director of infectious medicine at Peking Concorde Hospital, stressed that one of the needs of prescription drugs is that the drug has side effects and can cause diarrhea, hyperglycemia and abnormal liver function.
总的来说，针对此次新冠病毒的药物临床试验已经开始了，即便新冠病毒肺炎疫情很快得到改善，现在的临床试验也会对未来潜在的感染病有帮助。
In general, clinical trials for the new crown virus have begun, and even if the outbreak of the new strain soon improves, current clinical trials could help with potential infections in the future.
“想一下，如果没有瑞德西韦做临床，新冠病毒的新药也是会进行研发的。
"Think about it. New drugs for the Crown virus would have been developed without Rhetsevius clinically.
药物商业化可能有困难，但抗病毒药物本身有广谱性，未来也可能有其他抗病毒的情况会用到”，邬征告诉本刊。
Commercialization of drugs may be difficult, but the antiviral drugs themselves have a broad spectrum, and there may be other anti-viral situations in the future, "Wu told this print.
要知道，如果吉利德没有针对埃博拉开发瑞德西韦，现在的我们对新冠病毒的候选药物又少了一种。
To be sure, if Geely had not developed Rhetsevir for Ebola, we would now have one less candidate for the new crown virus.
在没有人能准确预测疫情发展的情况下，“特效药”不仅仅是一种希望，它更是一种责任。
In a situation where no one can accurately predict the course of the epidemic, the "miracle drug" is not just a hope; it is a responsibility.
作者档案严岩做病毒学研究，以及懂疫苗研发的，欢迎联系，请添加微信时自我介绍。
The author files Yan Yan to do virology research, as well as understand vaccine development, welcome to contact, please add micro-letter when introducing yourself.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：roseisnotred请戳→【武汉新型肺炎系列报道】#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Twenty-six minutes ago, Lifestyle Weekly Personal Message: roseisnotred! Wuhan New Pneumonia Series # # I'm on the lookout for the epidemic # # The full Triple Lifestyle magazine is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
免疫力就是战斗力，加油！。
Immunity is combat effectiveness. Come on.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
免疫力就是战斗力，加油！。
Immunity is combat effectiveness. Come on.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗击新冠，瑞德西韦进入III期临床试验。
Against the new crown, Rhetsevir entered phase III clinical trials.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗击新冠，瑞德西韦进入III期临床试验";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "这款药，是否真能改变当下新冠病毒感染无药可医的局面？";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & nbsp; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
