疫情下的武汉救护车司机：与死神赛跑。
Wuhan ambulance driver under the epidemic: race against death.
剥洋葱。
Onion peeling.
新京报                      。
Beijing News.
新京报。
Beijing News.
关键时刻还看新京报！这里有最生猛的调查报道，这里有朋友圈最重磅的深度文章。
Key moment to see the Beijing News! Here are the most violent investigation reports, here are the most weighty in-depth articles in the circle of friends.
只提供有价值的新闻，只负责挖掘真相！慧眼看中国，我们就是你的4D眼镜。
Only provide valuable news, only responsible for digging the truth! Look at China, we are your 4D glasses.
。
.
“我们现在只希望病人有地方救治，床位实在是紧张，没有床位是我们急救站工作人员每天都遇到的困难。
"We just want a place for the sick, the beds are really tight and the lack of beds is a daily problem for the staff at our first aid station.
” 一位急救站的站长说，“我们不怕出车多，就怕病人送到医院没床位。
"We're not afraid to get out too much, because we're afraid patients will be taken to hospital with no beds," said one station commander.
”全文5246字，阅读约需10.5分钟▲急救人员工作中。
The full text of 5,246 words will take about 10.5 minutes to read at first aid workers.
受访者供图新京报记者 王双兴编辑胡杰校对李立军2月3日，10辆配备了便携式呼吸机、氧气瓶等医疗设备的负压救护车搭载着首批重症患者陆续抵达火神山医院。
Ten negative-pressure ambulances loaded with portable ventilators and oxygen cylinders carrying the first batch of critically ill patients arrived at Mount Fujimori Hospital on February 3.
32岁的陆遥是其中一辆救护车的司机，夜幕降临时，他在医院门口和同事拍了合影。
Lu Yao, 32, the driver of one of the ambulances, photographed with his colleagues in front of the hospital as night fell.
照片中的他左手握拳举在胸前，救护车停在身后，车顶的蓝色警示灯闪闪发光。
His left hand clenched to his chest, an ambulance pulled up behind him, its blue warning lights flashing.
过去的几十天里， 这些救护车灯日日夜夜闪烁在武汉的街道上，连接病患和医院。
For the past few decades, these ambulance lights have been flashing day and night on the streets of Wuhan, connecting patients and hospitals.
56岁的向阳也是一位救护车司机。
Xiangyang, 56, is also an ambulance driver.
天命之年，依然工作在救援一线。
Fate year, still working in the rescue line.
他说，见遍生死，有时候也无能为力，只能一趟一趟出车，跑在路上，把自己的工作做好。
He said, see the life and death, sometimes impotent, can only go to a trip, run on the road, to do their job well.
他把自己的社交媒体主页背景换成了站在救护车前的照片，资料栏写着：一辈子都在与死神赛跑。
He replaced his social media homepage with a picture of himself standing in front of an ambulance, with a message that he'd run a race with death all his life.
━━━━━24小时踩紧油门1月31日凌晨0点37分，值班室的求救铃响起，向阳接到急救中心调度员的电话，要到江汉区接一位新冠肺炎的疑似病例。
At 0: 37 a.m. on January 31, the emergency room bell rang and Xiangyang received a call from a dispatcher from the emergency center to answer a suspected case of New Crown Pneumonia in Jianghan District.
迅速通知医护人员，穿好防护服、隔离服，戴好口罩、护目镜等，他们在4分钟内出发了。
Quickly inform the paramedics, put on protective clothing, protective clothing, wearing masks, goggles, etc., they set off in four minutes.
一名医生，一名护士，一名司机，两名担架员，组成一个急救单元组，是每辆救护车上的标配。
A doctor, a nurse, a driver, and two stretchers make up a first aid unit, a standard mix for each ambulance.
为了节省时间，和求救方核实地址、询问病情等工作，全在路上进行。
In order to save time, and ask for help to verify the address of the inquiry, such as the disease, all on the road.
▲转运病人时在急救车上照顾患者。
Take care of the patient in the ambulance while transferring the patient.
受访者供图接电话的是患者的女儿，带着哭声喊“你一定要来”。
Respondents answered the phone with a cry "You must come" from the daughter of the patient.
当时，她64岁的母亲已经陷入昏迷。
At the time, her 64-year-old mother was unconscious.
住处位于一片老式居民区，路封了，向阳兜兜转转才把车开到附近，担架员走小路过去，穿过狭窄的楼梯，把患者抬到了救护车上。
Located in an old-fashioned residential area, the road was sealed off and a stroll around the sun brought the car close by. The stretcher went down the narrow staircase and carried the patient to the ambulance.
患者的女儿跟在一旁，止不住咳嗽，她说，此前几天自己一直在发烧。
The patient's daughter followed, unable to stop her cough, saying she had been feverish the previous few days.
医生判断，她可能也被传染了，建议同去医院做检查。
The doctor decided that she too might be infected and suggested going to the hospital for a check-up.
五六岁的孩子一个人留在家里。
The five or six-year-old stayed at home alone.
向阳说，很多家庭出现不止一个疑似病例，有的是两例，有的则更多。
Many families have more than one suspected case, some two and some more, Xiangyang said.
向阳的一位司机同事曾对媒体回忆，1月28日，他和团队成员接到报警后赶往汉口。
A driver in Xiangyang told reporters on January 28 that he and members of his team had been called to Hankou.
求救的是一个三口之家，司机问：哪个是病人？对方回应：三个都是。
It was a family of three, and the driver asked, Which one is the patient? The other replied, All three.
关上车门，向阳把救护车朝最近的医院开去。
Close the door and drive the ambulance to the nearest hospital.
医护人员在驾驶室后面的车厢中，给患者做心电监护、测量血氧、上呼吸机。
Medical staff in the cab behind the cab, the patients do electrocardiogram monitoring, blood oxygen measurement, on the ventilator.
短促的敲击玻璃的声音响起来，向阳回头，医生朝他做手势：六，零。
The sound of a brief tap on the glass rang, and turning to the sun, the doctor motioned to him: Six, zero.
这意味着血氧浓度降低到了60（人体正常含氧量为90%左右，血氧浓度过低有生命危险），医生提示他开快些，情况紧急。
That means blood oxygen levels are down to 60 (normal oxygen levels in the body are around 90% and life-threatening levels are too low), and doctors are urging him to drive faster in case of emergency.
向阳踩紧了油门。
Tighten the throttle to the sun.
这一天，和此前的许多天一样，向阳共转运了近20位患者。
On that day, as on many previous days, nearly 20 patients were transferred to the sun.
急救中心的工作人员实行三班轮换，连续工作24小时，休息两天。
The staff of the emergency centre rotate in three shifts, working 24 hours a day and resting for two days.
在疫情发生前，一个班（24小时）一般转运七八位患者。
Before the outbreak, seven or eight patients were transported in one class (24 hours).
武汉市急救中心工作人员朱康告诉记者，以往，整个武汉市急救中心每天接到的电话求助在3000左右，如今，这个数字超过了10000，最多曾达到15000。
Zhu Kang, an emergency center worker in Wuhan, told reporters that in the past, the city's emergency center received 3,000 calls a day, but today the number exceeds 10,000, up to 15,000.
患者多的时候，每天打120的人要排队至少600位。
When patients are in high numbers, line up at least 600 people a day.
不止一位患者在见到向阳后说：“前面有几百个人排队，终于排到我了。
More than one patient, seeing Xiangyang, said: "Hundreds of people lined up ahead and finally made it to me.
”于是，和向阳一样的急救工作者，不眠不休地奔波在路上。
"So, like Xiangyang, the emergency workers rushed restlessly along the road.
他们分布在全市各地的57个急救站中，接到急救中心的调度指令后，驾驶着87台救护车、10台负压救护车，把一批又一批患者送到医院。
They were transported to hospitals in groups of 87 ambulances and 10 negative pressure ambulances at 57 emergency and first aid stations across the city.
司机陆遥驾驶的是武汉10台负压急救车之一，负压车可以最大限度地减少医务人员交叉感染的几率，并将车内的空气进行无害化处理后排出，因而，大多被用来转运确诊病例。
The driver, Lu Yao, is one of the 10 Wuhan negative-pressure first-aid vehicles, which minimize the risk of cross-infection among medical staff and discharge the air in the vehicle after innocuous treatment, thus most of them are used for the transfer of confirmed cases.
1月17日起，陆遥参与了第一批确诊病人的转运工作，将各个医院的病人转运到定点医院。
Since January 17, Lu Yao has been involved in the first transhipment of confirmed patients, transferring patients from various hospitals to designated hospitals.
2月3日，又参与了将病人转运到火神山医院的工作。
On 3 February, he was involved in the transfer of patients to Mount Huoshen Hospital.
▲2月3日，陆遥和同事在火神山医院的合影。
February 3, Lu Yao and his colleagues in the fire god mountain hospital photo.
受访者供图━━━━━“我们不怕出车多，就怕病人送到医院没床位”1月31日凌晨，向阳载着患病的母女向医院驶去。
2007-9-24 16: 48 We are not afraid to drive too much, for fear that patients will be taken to hospital without beds.
蓝色警示灯闪烁在江城的夜色里，由于路上的车辆不多，警笛声已经很少响起了。
Blue warning lights flashed in the night in Jiangcheng, and the siren rarely sounded due to the lack of traffic on the road.
1月23日，武汉宣布“封闭离汉通道”，紧接着，中心城区实行机动车禁行管理。
January 23, Wuhan announced the "closed Han Road," followed by the implementation of motor vehicles in the central city management.
整个城市变得安静下来，向阳开着救护车行驶在路上，路上再也没有堵车的情况，甚至很少能看到其他车辆，偶有的几辆，除了运输车、接送医务人员上班的交通车、公务用车，剩下便是和自己一样的救护车了。
The city grew quiet and drove in an ambulance to the sun. There were no more traffic jams on the road, not even other vehicles. Occasionally, except for the delivery truck, the bus carrying medical staff to work, the official car, and the rest were ambulances like themselves.
平日里，街头偶尔走过三两个人影，基本是外出买菜的市民，帽子口罩，严严实实。
On weekdays, the street occasionally walk three or two figures, basically out to buy vegetables of the citizens, hat mask, strict.
将病人送到最近的医院后，家属被告知医院早就没有床位了，到门诊挂号，当天的号也已经挂满了。
When the patient was taken to the nearest hospital, the family was told that the hospital had no beds for a long time.
救护车上的医生去和医院的医生交涉，说着说着甚至要吵起来。
The doctor in the ambulance went to the doctor at the hospital to talk and even quarrel.
向阳陪家属在一旁等候，他回忆：“大家都是医务人员，规则和道理都懂，但是看着病人昏迷在那里，大家都着急。
Xiangyang waited with his family. "Everyone was a medical worker," he recalls. "The rules and reasoning were clear, but everyone was anxious to see the patient unconscious there.
”最后，经过交涉，医院同意给昏迷的老人先挂号。
"Finally, after negotiations, the hospital agreed to register the unconscious old man first.
向阳跑去找来三个板凳，并排放好，然后和担架员一起把老人抬到板凳上，等待接受医院的治疗。
He ran to the sun, found three benches, set them free, and, together with the stretcher, carried the old man to the bench and waited for treatment in the hospital.
▲急救人员工作中。
First aid workers at work.
受访者供图向阳和同事们没有太多停留时间，还有下一个任务等着，他们必须尽快把车开回急救站消毒，然后赶去转运下一位病人。
With little time left for Xiangyang and his colleagues, the interviewees had to drive back to the emergency station as soon as possible to disinfect the car and then rush to the next patient.
离开的时候，向阳回过头看了一眼，老人昏睡在板凳上，女儿靠在一旁，用手抱着母亲的头。
As he left, he looked back at the sun. The old man was asleep on the bench, and his daughter was leaning on one side, holding her mother's head in her hand.
“那个女孩子跟我丫头大不了多少。
"That girl is not much bigger than I am.
”向阳说，当时眼泪就流下来了。
"said Xiangyang, and tears came down from her eyes.
医生在一边挺吃惊：“你看过这么多了，还这样。
"Surprised, the doctor said," You've seen so much, and so on.
”向阳说，疫情暴发以来，他每次出车自己心里都急，担心把病人送到医院后住不成院、挂不上号。
Xiangyang said he had been worried every time he travelled since the outbreak, worried that patients would be taken to hospital without a hospital or phone number.
几乎每个急救中心的工作人员，都曾被诸如此类的无力感裹挟。
Almost every staff member at a first aid center has been held hostage to such feelings of powerlessness.
司机们说，有时候，他们甚至要拉着病人“跑好几趟”，一家医院无法收治，就赶忙送去下一家医院，无论是病床、留观床位，还是发热门诊，都已经人满为患。
Drivers say that sometimes they even pull patients "several times" and that a hospital cannot take care of them and rushed them to the next hospital, which is already overcrowded, whether it be a hospital bed, a hospice or a fever clinic.
最多的时候，病人被向阳载着连续跑了三家医院，最终由医生协调入院。
Most of the time, the patient was Xiangyang carrying three consecutive hospitals, and eventually the doctor coordinated admission.
陆遥曾载病人连去四家医院，直到第四家得以挂上号。
Lu Yaozeng took his patients to four hospitals until the fourth was able to hang up.
“我们现在只希望病人有地方救治，床位实在是紧张，没有床位是我们急救站工作人员每天都遇到的困难。
"We just want a place for the sick, the beds are really tight and the lack of beds is a daily problem for the staff at our first aid station.
” 一位急救站的站长说，“我们不怕出车多，就怕病人送到医院没床位。
"We're not afraid to get out too much, because we're afraid patients will be taken to hospital with no beds," said one station commander.
”她回忆，有时候，救护车拉着病人，连送几家医院都没有办法收治，急得车上工作人员到处求救，“先给急救中心打电话，没办法就给我打电话，我就求助我们科领导，看能不能先到我们医院发热门诊看看。
Sometimes, she recalls, ambulance drivers dragged patients to hospitals without being able to take care of them. "I called the emergency center first, but I couldn't.
”（多数急救站附属于某家医院的急诊科，由该医院和急救中心共同管理。
(Most emergency stations are attached to the emergency department of a hospital and are managed jointly by the hospital and the emergency centre.
）━━━━━防护物资要“省着用”1月20日晚，国家卫健委高级别专家组组长、中国工程院院士钟南山接受央视新闻采访时表示：根据目前的资料，新型冠状病毒肺炎是肯定的人传人。
According to current data, the new coronavirus pneumonia is a confirmed human-to-human transmission, said Zhong Nan-shan, a member of the Chinese Academy of Engineering and head of a high-level panel of experts on January 20.
第二天起，和向阳一样的一线急救人员开始启动三级防护。
Starting the next day, first responders like Xiangyang began to activate the third level of protection.
到了1月下旬，向阳和同事们变得越来越忙，往往刚刚送完上一个病人，尚未回到急救站，就接到下一个任务，完成消毒后，立刻出发。
By late January, Xiangyang and his colleagues were getting busier and busier. Often just after sending a patient back to the emergency station, they were given the next task, disinfected, and set off immediately.
消毒是新冠肺炎防治中的重要环节。
Sterilization is an important link in the prevention and treatment of new crown pneumonia.
转运完一个病人，救护车的每个角落都要进行一次消毒。
After the transfer of a patient, every nook and cranny of the ambulance had to be disinfected.
先用75度酒精，再用消毒水，最后打开紫外线消毒灯，消毒半小时。
First use 75 degrees alcohol, then disinfect water, finally turn on the ultraviolet disinfectant lamp, disinfect for half an hour.
严格来说，口罩、防护服等也是一次性的，完成一次转运，应该换一次防护设备。
Strictly speaking, masks, protective clothing and so on is also a one-time, complete a transit, should be replaced with protective equipment.
但是特殊时期，只能“省着用”。
But special time, can only "save use."
防护服的胶是一次性的，想要反复穿，只能小心翼翼地撕开一个小口子，小心翼翼地脱下来，用酒精和消毒水处理一遍，再挂到紫外线灯下消毒，下一次出车继续穿。
The adhesive is disposable, want to wear repeatedly, can only gingerly tear a small cut, carefully take off, with alcohol and disinfectant water, hang under ultraviolet light disinfect, the next trip to continue wearing.
向阳的一套防护服往往要穿“两趟班或者两趟半班”，也就是48小时到60小时。
Xiangyang suits often have to wear "two shifts or two and a half shifts," that is, between 48 and 60 hours.
隔离服相对充足，大家便把它穿在防护服外，每上一趟班，可以换一件新的隔离服。
Isolation clothing is relatively sufficient, people wear it outside of protective clothing, every shift, can be replaced with a new isolation clothing.
▲出车前，急救人员在防护服外穿上一层隔离服。
First aid workers put on a layer of protective clothing before going out.
受访者供图向阳是站里年纪最大的，“大家都很照顾我，我基本上两天换一个N95口罩，他们年轻的好像都没有这么快换，一个口罩有时候要戴三天到四天。
"Everyone took care of me. I basically changed a N95 mask for two days. They didn't seem to change so fast. Sometimes a mask took three to four days.
”为了保障防护，每个人一趟班会再发两个外科口罩。
To protect themselves, each person issues two more surgical masks per shift.
向阳看到过护士长去和院长要防护物资，“吵一架，哭着回来”。
Xiangyang has seen the head nurse go and ask the dean for protective materials, "quarrel, cry back."
过后又都理解：医院还有发热门诊、感染科、隔离病房，大家都在一线。
Afterwards, we all understand that the hospital also has a fever clinic, infection department, isolation ward, we are in the front line.
武汉市急救中心工作人员朱康说：“目前整个急救中心的防护物资还是不足，尽管有些物资陆续送达，但是缺口还是很大。
Zhu Kang, a staff member at Wuhan First Aid Center, said: "The entire emergency center is still inadequate, although some supplies continue to arrive, but the gap is still very large.
”朱康介绍，和医院不同，急救中心对防护物资的需求更高，理想状态下，为了防止交叉感染，每转运一次病人，急救工作人员就应该换一次防护服。
Unlike hospitals, where there is a higher demand for protective equipment, emergency staff should ideally change protective clothing once a patient is transferred to prevent cross-infection, Zhu said.
他保守计算：整个急救中心共有57个急救站，每个站每天接收病人超过10次，有的达到20 多次。
He reckons conservatively that there are 57 first aid stations throughout the emergency center, each receiving more than 10 patients a day, some more than 20 times.
按照12次计算，每天必须有680次出诊；按照目前75%是发热病人计算，也需要480套防护服；每箱50套防护服，每天至少要10箱。
Based on 12 visits, 680 visits per day are required; 480 sets of protective clothing are also required, based on the current 75 per cent for febrile patients; and at least 10 cases per case of protective clothing per case.
但事实上，急救中心的防护物资并没有定量供应。
In practice, however, there was no rationing of protective equipment in emergency centres.
“上面筹集到，就下发。
"Where it is raised, it will be distributed.
如果没有，他们自己想办法。
If not, they do it themselves.
”朱康说，“只能发动站长各自想办法，有的能力强，就筹集得多，有的少。
"You can only start the stationmaster to think of his own way," he said.
”一位站长说，疫情防控一开始的时候，几乎所有站点的防护用品都是非常匮乏的，大家想了各种办法，天天去医院库房找能够用的防护用品；一听说急救中心通知领物资，也立刻马不停蹄地赶过去，生怕去晚了领不到。
Almost all sites were starved of protective gear at the start of the epidemic, says a stationmaster. "We thought of ways to go to the hospital storeroom every day to find usable protective equipment.
如今，来自各地的防护物资陆续送往武汉，有的急救站有了充足的护目镜和防护服，但缺少N95口罩；有的站物资依旧紧缺，需要四处求助；陆遥所在的站物资情况较好，平均每转运三四趟病人，可以换一套防护服。
Today, protective equipment from all over Wuhan, some emergency stations have adequate goggles and protective clothing, but the lack of N95 masks; some stations are still in short supply and need help everywhere; Luyao is located in a better material situation, an average of three to four times the transfer of patients can change a suit of protective clothing.
▲有网友给向阳寄来了防护用品。
Some netizens sent protective articles to Xiangyang.
受访者供图━━━━━“后面就是祖国和家人，你退了他们怎么办？”疫情暴发时，向阳原本可以不回武汉。
Picture 1: After the motherland and family, what do you do with themWhen the epidemic broke out, Xiangyang would not have returned to Wuhan.
1月22日，腊月二十八，他送女儿到北京学习。
January 22, 28, he sent his daughter to Beijing to study.
夜里，武汉市肺炎疫情防控指挥部发布第1号通告称：自2020年1月23日10时起，全市城市公交、地铁、轮渡、长途客运暂停运营；机场、火车站离汉通道暂时关闭。
Since 1000 hours on January 23, 2020, the city's city bus, subway, ferry and long-distance passenger transport operations have been suspended.
紧接着，武汉“封城”的消息在互联网上铺天盖地。
Then, Wuhan "closure" of the news on the Internet everywhere.
返回武汉的航班被取消了，向阳一边联系单位，一边联系北京铁路局，最终上了一班北京到珠海的高铁，他和车长说：“我是医务人员，得回去。
The flight back to Wuhan was canceled. He contacted the Beijing Railway Bureau on one side and finally got on a high-speed train from Beijing to Zhuhai.
”旁边的乘客接话：“别下，都这样了，你还赶回去干吗？”向阳坚持，最后途经武汉时，一个人下了车。
"The passenger next to him answered," Don't get down like this, why do you have to go back? "Xiangyang insisted, finally passing Wuhan, a man got off the bus.
“我是当兵的出身，受到的教育就是这样，不能退，后面就是祖国和家人，你退了他们怎么办？”他和他的同事都没退，直到今天，依然开着那辆白色救护车，穿行在武汉的大街小巷。
"I was born as a soldier, was educated like this, can not retreat, followed by the motherland and their families, what do you do with them?" He and his colleagues did not retreat, still driving the white ambulance through the streets of Wuhan to this day.
▲急救站的工作人员在值班室吃饭。
The staff at the emergency station eat in the duty room.
受访者供图如今，向阳所在的急救站，40余个工作人员中，已有4人出现新冠肺炎症状，正在医院隔离治疗，等待确诊。
Four of the more than 40 staff members at Xiangyang's emergency station have developed symptoms of pneumonia and are being quarantined in hospital awaiting confirmation.
他们居住的隔离病房所在的楼层，收治的大都是本医院中被感染的医护人员。
The isolation ward they live on is on the floor where most of the hospital's infected staff are treated.
急救中心工作人员朱康介绍，现在，除了个别几个急救站，其他站里“都有人中招”。
Zhu Kang, a staff member of the first aid center, now, in addition to a few emergency stations, other stations "are hit."
其中有一个站因为司机感染，站长只好找了临时司机，“跑了一次车，感觉太吓人，就不干了。
One of the stations because the driver was infected, the stationmaster had to find a temporary driver, "run a car, feel too scary, quit.
”最近，和向阳同站的一个担架员也“不干了”。
Recently, a stretcher standing with Xiangyang also quit.
担架员大多来自武汉周围县乡，关闭离汉通道之后，很多外地的担架员回不来，一旦出现空缺很难补上。
Most stretcher from Wuhan around the county township, after the closure of Han corridor, many foreign stretcher back, once the vacancy is difficult to fill.
同组只剩一位担架员，只能由司机或者医生临时兼任。
There was only one stretcher left in the group, who had to be chauffeur or doctor.
“现在一个也不能缺。
"Not one of them now.
”向阳说。
"said Xiangyang.
从一月中旬开始，因为工作量增加，加之担心万一感染病毒传染给家人，各个急救站的工作人员统一住在单位。
Starting in mid-January, the staff of the emergency stations have been living in the same premises because of the increased workload and the fear of transmitting the virus to their families.
每间值班室有上下铺两张床位，不够便腾出储物室用来住人，还不够，就住在医院给工作人员安排的酒店里。
Each duty room has two beds, not enough to make room for people, not enough, just stay in the hospital for staff hotel.
交通管制后，人们对120救护车的需求上升，向阳和同事们变得更忙了。
After traffic control, the demand for 120 ambulances rose and Xiangyang and his colleagues became busier.
不过他也遇到过不止一次，有人打电话给120声称病人已经昏迷、神志不清、抽搐，救护车到达后，病人自己从楼梯上走了下来。
On more than one occasion, however, he was called to 120 people claiming that the patient was unconscious, confused and convulsed, and when the ambulance arrived, the patient walked down the stairs himself.
工作时间，急救中心的工作人员们24小时忙在一线；休息时间，也要用来消毒和搬运物资。
During working hours, staff at the emergency centre are busy around the clock; breaks are also used to disinfect and carry supplies.
一位急救医生在工作笔记里写：现在，我们的工作量越来越大，原来一个班出7-8次车，现在一个班出14-15次已经是常态了，基本上每出一次车，消完毒就马上要出下一次车了，夜晚想安稳地睡一两个小时完全是奢望。
Now our workload is getting heavier and heavier, with a class of seven to eight trips, and now it's the norm for a class to take 14 to 15 trips. Virtually every time we take a car, we get our next ride, and an hour or two of quiet sleep is just too much to expect.
有的急救站工作人员平均年龄超过50岁，最年轻的护士还是1976年出生的，如今依然全部在岗，日夜奔忙。
The youngest nurses, all of whom were born in 1976, are still on duty day and night.
火神山医院已经开始接诊，雷神山医院马上落成，一线的工作人员经常念叨：“就要好起来了吧。
Mount Fukuyama Hospital has begun consultations, Lei Shenshan Hospital will soon be inaugurated, the front-line staff often say: "It will be better.
”▲从一周前开始，当地的一家快餐店每天给值班的二十余个工作人员送免费午饭。
Since a week ago, a local fast food restaurant has been serving free lunch to about 20 staff members on duty each day.
受访者供图司机陆遥的爱人独自带两个小孩在家。
The interviewee told his wife, Lu Yao, to take two children home alone.
休班的时候，他会在吃饭时和家人视频，6岁的女儿对病毒没有概念，抱着手机告诉爸爸今天写完作业后弹了钢琴，还练了舞蹈；一岁出头的二宝则只会在一旁咿咿呀呀。
When off duty, he plays video with his family while eating, his six-year-old daughter has no idea of the virus, holds her mobile phone and tells his father he played the piano and practiced dancing after finishing his homework today.
每次通话结束前，爱人总会接过手机，反复唠叨“防护一定要做好”。
At the end of each conversation, the lover will always take over the phone, repeated "protection must do well."
半个月前，她想劝陆遥别去工作了，陆遥回应：“这个时候，怎么可能。
Half a month ago, she wanted to persuade Lu Yuan to leave work, Lu Yao responded: "This time, how possible.
”向阳说，工作的时候，顾不上吃饭是常事，午饭下午四五点吃，晚饭直到夜里十一二点吃，都很常见。
Xiang Yang said it was common to skip meals at work, eat lunch at four or five in the afternoon and have dinner until eleven or twelve in the evening.
找不到营业的餐馆，就买来泡面充饥。
If you can't find a restaurant, buy noodles to appease your hunger.
还有时候忙着出车，甚至一天都吃不上饭。
There are times when you are too busy to drive or even eat for a day.
一周前开始，当地的一家快餐店每天给值班的二十余个工作人员送免费午饭，一荤一素两个菜，外加一碗汤。
A week ago, a local fast-food restaurant began serving free lunches, a meat and vegetable dish and a bowl of soup to about 20 people on duty each day.
每份饭的包装袋上都贴着一张便签，是店主誊抄的网友祝福：“一切都会好起来的。
Each rice bag is affixed to a notepad, is a copy of the owner of the netizen blessing: "Everything will be fine.
”“请保护好自己。
"" Protect yourself, please.
辛苦了。
It's hard work.
”“你们守护患者，我们守护你，别忘了还有人等你回家吃饭，请平安归来。
"You watch over the sick, we watch over you, and remember that there are others waiting for you to eat at home, and come back safe and sound.
”收到餐的第一天，同组一位护士当场就哭了。
"On the first day of meal, one of the nurses burst into tears on the spot.
向阳把它们逐一撕下来，工工整整，贴在值班室的桌子上。
Xiangyang tore them off one by one and stuck them on the desk in the watch room.
（向阳、陆遥、朱康、林田为化名。
Xiangyang, Lu yao, Zhukang and Lin Tian are aliases.
）点击下图进入"全国新型冠状病毒感染肺炎实时地图"值班编辑 花木南中疾控独家回应：“人传人”早有推论，保守下结论有原因武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充本文部分内容首发自新京报公号“剥洋葱people”未经新京报书面授权不得转载使用欢迎朋友圈分享。
2007-9-25 09: 55 wuhan Dingshan Hospital is being reconstructed using wardrobe. If necessary, use this section of the Beijing News official "Peking Onion Peeling" to share with friends without the written authorization of the Beijing News.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情下的武汉救护车司机：与死神赛跑。
Wuhan ambulance driver under the epidemic: race against death.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "新京报";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; with Beijing News;
var msg_title = "疫情下的武汉救护车司机：与死神赛跑";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "【新京报原创】“我们不怕出车多，就怕病人送到医院没床位。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
”";。
";;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '中疾控独家回应：没有隐瞒数据',。
& nbsp; CDC's exclusive response: Not having concealed data or information.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离',。
At Wuhan Dating Hospital, a bed was not available and the patient's home was segregated by wardrobe.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '武汉定点医院一床难求，患者居家用衣柜隔离',。
At Wuhan Dating Hospital, a bed was not available and the patient's home was segregated by wardrobe.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充',。
Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital is being rehabilitated and, if necessary, replenished with & apos;.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '北京小汤山医院正在复建，必要时启用补充',。
Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital is being rehabilitated and, if necessary, replenished with & apos;.
subject_name: '新京报',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="新京报";。
var title = & quot; New Beijing News & quot;;
