武汉市慈善总会27亿元善款上缴市财政？专业人士分析_中国政库_澎湃新闻-The Paper。
Wuhan City Charitable Association of 2.7 billion yuan to hand over to the municipal finance? Professional analysis _ China Treasury _ The Paper.
报料。
News feed.
注册。
Registration.
登录。
Login.
下载APP。
Download APP.
精选。
Selected.
抗疫。
Anti-epidemic.
抗疫防控新型冠状病毒肺炎。
Anti-epidemic control of new coronavirus pneumonia.
。
.
视频。
Video.
上直播。
Live broadcast.
拉近你与现场距离。
Bring you closer to the scene.
七环视频。
Seven-ring video.
为了更美好的生活。
For a better life.
温度计。
Thermometers.
深度记录社会冷暖。
Depth of record society warm and cold.
一级视场。
Level 1 field of view.
及时现场，洞察财经事件。
On-site, insight into financial issues.
World湃。
World surging.
看见新闻全球化。
See the globalization of information.
湃客科技。
Pai guest technology.
聚焦前沿，展现新兴企业。
Focus on the frontier and showcase emerging businesses.
纪录湃。
The record runs high.
纪录澎湃中国。
China is on record.
围观。
Look around.
以影像介入社会生活。
Imaging into social life.
@所有人。
@ All.
所有人在看。
Everyone's watching.
大都会。
Metropolis.
看上海 最都会。
It's the best city in Shanghai.
追光灯。
Searchlight.
让你看到文艺生活。
Let you see the literary life.
运动装。
Sportswear.
直观运动，可以装不要伪装。
Intuitive movement, can be installed without camouflage.
健寻记。
Health care.
追寻活到一百岁的秘诀。
The secret to living to be a hundred years old.
AI播报。
AI announces.
互联网新闻+：AI播报。
Internet news +: AI broadcasts.
眼界。
Eye-catching.
每日一条视频，与新闻同步。
One video per day, synced with the news.
时事。
Current affairs.
中国政库洞悉中国动向的时政解读。
China's treasurer has insight into the current state of affairs in China.
中南海权威细致的领导人报道。
Zhongnanhai authority meticulous leader report.
舆论场倾听复杂世界的弦外之音。
Opinion circles listen to the implications of the complex world.
打虎记中国反腐报道第一平台。
Tiger Kit China Anti-Corruption Report First Platform.
人事风向快速专业的人事信息集合地。
Personnel wind speed and professional collection of personnel information.
法治中国司改风向，法治观察。
Rule of Law China Division wind direction, rule of law observation.
一号专案司法个案，法治调查。
Ad hoc Judicial Case No. 1, Rule of Law Investigations.
港台来信感觉不一样的港台报道。
RTHK's letter feels different from RTHK's report.
长三角政商解读区域政情与财富故事。
The Yangtze River Delta political and economic interpretation of regional political and wealth story.
直击现场第一现场，文图视频直播。
Click on the scene of the first scene, text video live.
公益湃记录公益发展，共建责任生态。
Public welfare record of public welfare development, jointly build ecological responsibility.
。
.
暖闻人间真善美，社会正能量。
Hear the world is good and beautiful, society is positive energy.
。
.
澎湃质量报告打假除劣，破套防坑——专注消费者权益保护。
Pai Pai quality report to fight fraud and shoddy, broken pit - focus on consumer rights and interests protection.
绿政公署环境与公共健康调查。
Environmental and Public Health Survey of the Green Administration.
澎湃国际All News In。
All News In, Peng Pai.
外交学人New World Order。
Diplomat New World Order.
澎湃防务Cyclopedia for military。
Cyclopedia for military defence.
唐人街海外利益，华人故事。
Overseas Interests in Chinatown, Chinese Stories.
澎湃人物提供最有态度的人物报道。
The roaring characters provide the most critical coverage of the characters.
浦江头条上海每天最重要的事件。
The most important events of the day in Shanghai.
教育家最先进的教育理念在此碰撞。
Educators' most advanced educational ideas collide here.
全景现场360度感识全景现场。
Panoramic scene 360-degree panorama scene.
美数课数字是骨骼，设计是灵魂。
Numbers are bones; design is the soul.
快看快看，图片会说话。
Look quick. Pictures talk.
财经。
Finance.
10%公司派发上市公司变革红利。
10 per cent distribute change dividends to listed companies.
能见度能源行业最具穿透力的思想。
Visibility The most penetrating thinking in the energy industry.
地产界地产界所有你想知道的事儿。
Real estate Everything you want to know.
财经上下游跨界找寻市场常识。
Cross-boundary market common sense.
金改实验室金融创新灵感集散地。
Financial innovation center of Jinchang Lab.
牛市点线面简单专业时尚的财富平台。
Bull market simple professional fashion wealth platform.
科技湃让我们走近科学。
Technology has brought us closer to science.
澎湃商学院品牌课外书，生活经济学。
Peng Pai Business School Brand Extracurricular Books, Life Economics.
自贸区连线自贸区第一信息和服务平台。
Free Trade Area line free trade area first information and service platform.
进博会在线走进中国国际进口博览会。
Into the Fair online into China International Import Expo.
澎湃号。
'cried the roar.
湃客。
The roar.
政务。
Government affairs.
媒体。
The media.
思想。
Ideas.
社论澎湃的立场。
The editorial was strong.
澎湃评论在这里知道更多。
Pai Pai comments know more here.
思想湃明亮的对话，澎湃的思想。
Thoughts of bright dialogue, surging thoughts.
上海书评全球百位华文写作名家撰稿。
The Shanghai Book Review is written by 100 leading Chinese writers.
思想市场有竞争的思想讲底蕴的政治。
The thought market has the competitive thought to speak the underlying politics.
私家历史发现历史之美。
Private history finds the beauty of history.
翻书党微时代的首选书单。
Turn over the book party microage first choice book list.
艺术评论独立态度解析中外艺术热点。
Artistic Comment Independent Attitude Analyzes the Hot Spots of Chinese and Foreign Art.
古代艺术巡礼人类的艺术遗产。
Ancient Art Parades the artistic heritage of mankind.
文化课关注人文景观投身人类文明。
Cultural courses focus on humanistic landscape into human civilization.
逝者记录逝者为世界留下的财富。
The dead record the wealth left to the world by the dead.
澎湃研究所为中国城市问题提供澎湃方案。
The Peng Pai Institute offers a robust programme on urban issues in China.
。
.
市政厅中国城市问题专家。
City Hall of China experts on urban issues.
城市漫步人塑造地方，地方也塑造人。
Urban strollers shape places, and places shape people.
智库报告展示全球最具价值的智库研究成果。
The think tank report showcases the world's most valuable think tank research.
专栏名家专家，上天入地。
An expert columnist.
异次元打破次元壁。
Heterogeneous element breaks the secondary wall.
生活。
Life.
有戏陪你过一种审美的生活。
Have a play to accompany you to live an aesthetic life.
文艺范一线文艺生活。
Literary and artistic life.
身体探索身体的奥秘。
The body explores the secrets of the body.
私·奔跑步是一种态度。
Personal running is an attitude.
运动家看体育如何改变世界。
Athletes see how sport can change the world.
私家地理旅途的旨趣、技艺以及乡愁。
The Purport, Skill, and Nostalgia of the Private Geographic Journey.
非常品用态度引领时尚。
A very good attitude leads to fashion.
楼市不一样的楼市观察。
Different property market observation.
生活方式更好生活，我们有一些意见。
We have some suggestions for a better way of life.
澎湃联播半个段子兽半个评论猿。
Half a section of the beast commented on apes.
视界视界观，观世界。
Look at the world, look at the world.
亲子学堂理解孩子，认知自己。
Parents and children learn to understand their children, know themselves.
赢家直击中国体育产业生存现状。
Winners strike at the survival of China's sports industry.
汽车圈专注汽车产经报道。
Auto industry focus on the auto industry report.
问吧。
'he asked.
订阅。
Subscriptions.
把你最喜欢的栏目添加到这里来哦。
Add your favorite column here.
马上登录。
Sign in now.
setMsgMark(); //login异步之后调用位置修改。
Call location modification after setMsgMark; / / login asynchronous.
// 顶部广告自适应。
/ / Top Advertising Adaptability.
// xml返回了creativeHeight。
/ / xml returned creativeLight.
//图片拓展图片时。
/ / Photo when expanding the picture.
if(typeof(xml.find("Cexpansion")[0])!="undefined"){   //是否需要展开。
If (typeof (xml. find; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93;)! = & quot; underdefined & quot;) {/ / whether it needs to be carried out.
var cexpansion = xml.find("Cexpansion")[0].textContent.trim();//展开时。
var text = xml. find (& quot; Cempansion & quot;) & # 91; 0 & # 93; .text Content.
//图片拓展视频时   。
/ / Photo when expanding the video.
//视频拓展视频时。
/ / Video when expanding the video.
//收起广告。
/ / Put the ad away.
//将 http://或者https:// 转为//。
/ / Conversion from http: / / https: / / to /.
首页。
Home page.
> 中国政库。
China's treasury.
武汉市慈善总会27亿元善款上缴市财政？专业人士分析。
Wuhan City Charity Association of 2.7 billion yuan to the city's financial? Professional analysis.
微信公号“公益时报”。
Weixin official "pro bono Times."
字号。
The font size.
超大。
Extremely large.
大。
Big.
标准。
Standards.
小。
Small.
据《中国社会报》2月10日报道，武汉市慈善总会于1月27日起分4批、累计27亿元抗疫善款上缴市财政。
The Wuhan Municipal Charity Association handed over 2.7 billion yuan in donations to the municipal treasury in four batches starting on January 27, the China Society for Social Welfare said.
报道称：“武汉市慈善总会作为民政部指定的五家接收捐赠的单位之一，主要负责接收捐款和通用物资。
"The Wuhan General Charity Federation is one of the five entities designated by the Ministry of Civil Affairs to receive donations and supplies," it said.
为做好慈善捐赠工作，武汉市民政局制定《武汉市新冠肺炎防控捐赠工作规程》，制发《关于加强新型肺炎防控社会捐赠工作管理的通知》，规范应对疫情的社会捐赠管理。
In order to do a good job in charitable donation, the Wuhan Civil Affairs Bureau formulated the Regulations on the Prevention and Control of New Crowded Pneumonia in Wuhan and issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management of Social Donations for the Prevention and Control of New Kinds of Pneumonia, regulating the management of social donations to deal with the epidemic.
1月23日以来，累计向社会发布接受捐赠款物情况的公告8期，捐赠款使用公告2期(涉及资金14.35亿元，含定向0.47亿元)，实现全额全程公开。
Since 23 January, eight issues of the cumulative notice of receipt of donations have been issued to the public, and two editions of the Notice on the Use of Donations (involving 1.435 billion yuan, including a targeted 47 million yuan) have been published in full.
截至2月2日12时，市慈善总会接收社会捐款共计30.226197亿元，并于1月27日起分4批上缴市财政，累计划转27亿元。
As at 12: 00 noon on February 2, the Municipal Charitable Association had received donations totalling 3,02261.97 million yuan and had transferred 2.7 billion yuan to the municipal treasury in four batches since January 27.
” 就此，北京致诚社会组织矛盾调处与研究中心执行主任何国科表示，此次新型冠状病毒肺炎疫情暴发后，所有捐赠人的捐赠目的，还是比较明确的，就是用于新冠肺炎的防控，慈善总会作为受赠主体，应将受赠的财产用于疫情防控。
In the wake of the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia, the goal of all donors is clearly to prevent and control the new coronavirus pneumonia, and the General Association of Charities, as a grantee, should use the donated assets for disease prevention and control, the bureau said.
武汉市慈善总会根据指挥部要求上缴市财政的行为，从某种程度上来说是违背了捐赠人对捐赠资金如何使用的意愿。
The action of Wuhan General Association of Charity to turn over the city's financial resources according to the request of the headquarters is, to some extent, a violation of donors' willingness to use the donated funds.
北京荷风艺术基金会高级顾问夏彧歆认为，武汉市慈善总会应当按照募捐方案使用捐赠财产，如果需要变更，须经法定程序。
Xia or her, a senior adviser at the Beijing Lotus Foundations, believes that Wuhan Charity Association makes use of donated property in accordance with the fund-raising plan.
而目前在武汉市有关部门发布的各类公告、武汉市慈善总会公布的募捐方案中，均未提到社会捐赠款项要上缴武汉市财政。
However, none of the various announcements issued by the relevant departments in Wuhan and the fundraising plan announced by the Wuhan General Association of Charity did mention that the social donation should be turned in to Wuhan municipal finance.
上述两位专业人士均表示：在当前疫情防控和抗击的关键时期，相关部门应按照《慈善法》《公益事业捐赠法》等法律法规和与其配套的部门规章、规范性文件等，依法建立协调机制，提供需求信息，及时有序引导开展募捐和救助活动，并对捐赠款物使用情况依法严格监督。
Both professionals said that during the current critical period of epidemic prevention and combat, the relevant departments should establish a coordination mechanism in accordance with the Law on Charity, the Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises and their accompanying departmental rules and normative documents, provide demand information, guide fund-raising and rescue activities in a timely and orderly manner, and strictly supervise the use of donations and materials in accordance with the law.
何国科 北京市致诚律师事务所律师，北京致诚社会组织矛盾调处与研究中心 执行主任 夏彧歆 北京荷风艺术基金会 高级顾问  访谈 《公益时报》：据《中国社会报》报道，武汉市慈善总会自1月27日起，将接收的捐款分4批上缴市财政，累计划转27亿元。
He Guoke is a lawyer at Zhicheng Law Firm in Beijing, and a senior adviser at the Zhicheng Social Organization in Beijing, Xia Yu-shin and Xin Xin, Executive Director of the Ho Feng Art Foundation in Beijing. Since January 27, the Association has handed in donations in four batches to the municipal treasury for a cumulative transfer of 2.7 billion yuan, the China Social Daily reported.
在你看来，这种操作是否符合捐赠人意愿?何国科：判断是否违反捐赠人的意愿，首先要明确捐赠人意愿包括什么。
In your opinion, does this kind of operation meet the donor's wishes? He Guoke: To judge whether it is against the will of the donor, the first step is to determine what the donor's intention is.
我认为从实践中来说，捐赠人的意愿是包括了捐赠人有权决定捐赠什么，捐赠的钱用于做什么，谁来接受捐赠，怎么使用捐赠财产和有权了解使用的效果(信息公开)等问题。
In practice, I think the donor's intention is to include such issues as what the donor has the right to donate, what the money is going to do, who will receive the donation, how to use the donated property, and the right to know the effect of the use (disclosure).
那么在本次新冠肺炎的防控当中，捐赠人向慈善总会捐赠的财产，他们的捐赠目的，还是比较明确的，就是用于新冠肺炎的防控，慈善总会是受赠主体，慈善总会应将受赠的财产用于疫情防控。
In the case of Pneumonia New Crown, the donor's donation to the charity, whose purpose is clear, is for the prevention and control of new crown pneumonia. The General Association of Charities is the grantee and should use the donated assets for disease control.
对于捐赠人来说，这就是他们理解的一个社会捐赠过程，而武汉市慈善总会根据指挥部要求，上缴市财政的行为，从某种程度上来说是违背了捐赠人对捐赠资金如何使用的意愿。
For donors, this is what they understand to be a social donation process, and Wuhan General Association of Philanthropy, in accordance with the command requirements, turned over the city's finances, in a way contrary to donors' willingness to use the donated funds.
比如，捐赠人向武汉市慈善总会捐赠1000元，慈善总会是先把资金给了财政，这个情况捐赠人并不知晓。
For example, if a donor donates 1000 yuan to the Wuhan General Association of Charity, the latter gives the money first, which the donor does not know.
有专家学者认为，湖北五家指定的慈善组织，实际上是政府在接受捐赠。
Some experts and scholars believe that the five designated charitable organizations in Hubei Province are actually receiving donations from the government.
但是我认为，在相关法律法规中，没有慈善组织代政府接受捐赠财产的依据，在通知公告中也没有看到政府接受捐赠或所接受捐赠要上缴财政的规定，只是提到捐赠款物由指挥部统一调配。
However, in my view, there is no basis in the relevant laws and regulations for charitable organizations to accept donations on behalf of the Government, nor is there any provision in the circular for the Government to accept donations or for accepting them to contribute financially, other than to mention that donations are centrally allocated by the command.
对于本人和广大捐赠人而言，其实并没有表达向政府捐赠的意愿，以及同意将捐赠财产上缴财政的做法。
For myself and the donor community, there is in fact no willingness to donate to the Government, as well as agreement to donate property to the financial practice.
另外，根据《公益事业捐赠法》第十一条 在发生自然灾害时或者境外捐赠人要求县级以上人民政府及其部门作为受赠人时，县级以上人民政府及其部门可以接受捐赠，并依照本法的有关规定对捐赠财产进行管理。
In addition, in accordance with Article 11 of the Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises, when natural disasters occur or when foreign donors request the people's governments at or above the county level and their departments to act as grantees, the people's governments at or above the county level and their departments may accept donations and administer the donated property in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Law.
这里政府接受捐赠，也是按捐赠人的要求。
Here the government accepts the donation, also according to the donor's request.
夏彧歆：《慈善法》第五十一条 慈善组织的财产包括：(一)发起人捐赠、资助的创始财产;(二)募集的财产;(三)其他合法财产。
His name is Yu. His name is his name and he comes from his father, his name is his name, his name is his name and he comes from his father.
《慈善组织公开募捐管理办法》(民政部令第59号)第十九条 慈善组织应当加强对募得捐赠财产的管理，依据法律法规、章程规定和募捐方案使用捐赠财产。
Measures for the Administration of Public Collections by Charities (Order No. 59 of the Ministry of Civil Affairs) Article 19 Charitable organizations shall strengthen the administration of donated assets collected and use them in accordance with laws, regulations, rules and fund-raising schemes.
确需变更募捐方案规定的捐赠财产用途的，应当召开理事会进行审议，报其登记的民政部门备案，并向社会公开。
If it is really necessary to change the use of donated property as stipulated in the collection plan, the board of directors shall hold a deliberation and submit it to the civil affairs department registered with it for the record and make it public.
可以看出，武汉市慈善总会接收的款项属于社会捐赠，是慈善财产;武汉市慈善总会应当按照募捐方案使用捐赠财产，如果需要变更，须经法定程序。
As can be seen, the donations received by the Wuhan Municipal Charitable General Association are social donations and are charitable property; the Wuhan General Association of Philanthropy should use the donated property according to the fund-raising plan and go through legal procedures if necessary.
在武汉市有关部门发布的各类公告、武汉市慈善总会公布的募捐方案中，均未提到社会捐赠款项要上缴武汉市财政。
In the various announcements issued by the relevant departments in Wuhan and the fundraising plan announced by the Wuhan General Association of Charity, no mention was made of the need to hand over the social donation funds to Wuhan municipal finance.
如果将社会捐赠上缴市财政，这显然与在民政部门备案和总会公布的募捐方案不一致，更不符合上述法律规定及部门规章的精神。
If social donations are turned over to the municipal treasury, this is clearly not in keeping with the record of the civil administration and the fund-raising programme announced by the Federation, nor with the spirit of the above-mentioned legal provisions and departmental regulations.
再者，社会公众将款项捐给武汉市慈善总会，是对其的信任，是希望其严格按照《慈善法》等法律法规，依法合规有序用好社会爱心、及时支援抗疫一线;如果捐赠人知道募捐款项需要上缴市财政，他们很有可能就通过其他渠道捐赠、奉献爱心，而并不一定必须通过武汉市慈善总会。
In addition, the public donates funds to the Wuhan Municipal Charity Association in the hope that it will strictly abide by the Law and other laws and regulations, use social love in an orderly and timely manner, and provide timely support to the frontline of the epidemic.
这种做法，并不符合捐赠人意愿。
This is not in line with the donors' wishes.
第三，公众捐赠，其性质是社会公共资产、慈善财产;而上缴财政，则转变了财产性质。
Third, public donations, which are social public assets, charitable property in nature, and the surrender of financial resources, change the nature of property.
我们知道，财政款项，来源于国家税收、有关收费，以及其他法律法规确定的情形。
We know that financial contributions come from the state tax, relevant fees, and other legal and regulatory situations.
显然，社会捐赠款项并不属于上述范畴，不应当上缴财政。
It is clear that donations from the community do not fall within the above categories and should not be surrendered financially.
当然，我们也注意到，在各类公告中均有提及“由武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部统一调配使用市慈善总会社会捐赠款”的表述，但这并不能成为“社会捐赠上缴市财政”的法律依据。
Of course, we have also noted that in various announcements there are references to "the unified allocation and use of social donations by the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command," but this does not constitute a legal basis for "social donations to the municipal treasury."
统一调配使用，没有问题，但方式很多，比如：武汉市慈善总会可以根据武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部的要求上报“非限定性”捐赠款项的使用方案和预算，由指挥部根据疫情防控整体情况审批;获批后，武汉市慈善总会直接将有关资助款项划拨相关单位，签订资助协议、提出资金使用要求及款项监督审计方案等，严格管理、追溯款项使用方式及途径，并依法做好信息公开、接受社会监督。
After approval, the Wuhan General Association of Philanthropy will directly transfer the related funds to relevant units, sign the funding agreement, put forward the requirements for the use of funds and the plan for auditing the funds, strictly manage and trace the ways and means of using the funds, and make information public and subject to public supervision according to law.
此种方式，合法合规、公信力高。
Such an approach is legitimate and credible.
第四，如果捐赠款项上缴市财政，我不知道在这种情况下，有关社会组织如何依法进行、依规做好信息公开?若公布社会捐赠上缴市财政，这与募捐方案及有关规定不符;若公布社会捐赠直接拨付、资助有关机构，这又与实际情况不符。
Fourth, if the donation is turned over to the municipal treasury, I do not know how the relevant social organizations will proceed according to the law and make the information public according to the rules. If the public donation is released to the municipal treasury, it is not in line with the collection plan and the relevant regulations.
不得而知。
Not known.
《公益时报》：从现有的公开资料显示，没有查到相关内容的程序性解释或公开说明。
The pro bono Times: According to the publicly available information, no procedural explanation or public statement of the content was found.
如果有必要且一定要这么操作，合法合规的程序应该是怎样的?应参照哪些相关法律条款?何国科：从尊重捐赠人的角度来说，捐赠人应当是有知情权的，如果必须上缴财政，应当事先告知捐赠人，已经上缴市财政的，也应当履行信息公开义务，告知捐赠人捐赠款项的使用，应当依照《公益事业捐赠法》和《慈善法》的要求履行信息公开义务，而不是仅告知捐赠人已经上缴财政就结束了。
If it is necessary and necessary to do so, what should be the procedures for legal compliance? What are the relevant legal provisions? HONG Ke: From the perspective of respecting donors, donors should be informed in advance that they have paid in financial resources and that the use of donations should be made in accordance with the Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises and the Law on Charity.
财政怎么使用的，用做什么，用了多少?这些信息也应当披露。
How finance is used, what it is used for, and how much it is spent? This information should also be disclosed.
夏彧歆：《公益事业捐赠法》第五条 捐赠财产的使用应当尊重捐赠人的意愿，符合公益目的，不得将捐赠财产挪作他用。
Xia Din: Article 5 The use of donated property respects the wishes of the donor, serves a public interest purpose and does not permit the diversion of donated property.
《慈善法》第五十二条 慈善组织的财产应当根据章程和捐赠协议的规定全部用于慈善目的，不得在发起人、捐赠人以及慈善组织成员中分配。
Article 52 The property of a charitable organization shall be used exclusively for charitable purposes in accordance with the articles of association and the provisions of the donation agreement, and shall not be distributed among the sponsors, donors or members of charitable organizations.
任何组织和个人不得私分、挪用、截留或者侵占慈善财产。
No organization or individual may privately divide, misappropriate, retain or encroach upon charitable property.
综上，有关法律并未授权政府部门要求有关机构将社会捐赠财产上缴财政统一调配。
Above all, the relevant laws do not authorize government departments to request the relevant agencies to turn over socially donated property to fiscal consolidation.
显然，现在的做法缺乏法律基础和法律依据。
Clearly, the current practice lacks a legal basis and a legal basis.
当然，在当前特殊情况下，为更好地开展疫情防控和抗击工作，对政府部门出台一些特殊政策，应该理解并支持;但这有一个前提，就是必须依法行政。
Of course, under the current special circumstances, special policies for government departments should be understood and supported in order to better control and combat the epidemic, but this presupposes that the administration of justice is required.
如果武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部认为有必要将社会捐赠款项上缴市财政统一调配使用，应当按照有关程序，依法提请全国人大常委会在相关法律框架下授权;经授权后，方可执行，且要及时向社会公示。
If the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command deems it necessary to turn over the social donation funds to the municipal treasury for unified use, it shall, in accordance with the relevant procedures, submit to the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress for authorization under the relevant legal framework.
显然，现在这个程序和授权，是缺失的;且武汉市新型肺炎防控指挥部和有关部门也没有解释、公示此种做法的法律依据。
Obviously, the current procedure and authorization are missing, and the Wuhan New Pneumonia Prevention and Control Command and relevant departments have not explained and made public the legal basis for such a practice.
《公益时报》：对于此事涉及的相关部门，你的法律建议是什么?何国科：我认为社会捐赠财产由指挥部统一调配这个没有问题，但对于上缴财政的行为不能理解。
What is your legal proposal for the relevant departments involved in this matter? He Guoke: I don't think there is any problem for the social donation to be unified by the headquarters, but I can't understand the act of handing in the money.
指挥部根据新冠肺炎防控实际情况需求，要求慈善总会将社会捐赠财产拨付给相关主体，慈善总会按照指挥部要求执行，并向社会公示，这个不存在任何法律障碍，不知道上缴市财政的必要性在于什么地方?是政府对慈善总会的不信任，还是慈善总会对用好社会捐赠没有信心?对于上缴市财政的社会捐赠资金，更是应该做好信息披露，不能说上缴财政了，慈善组织也好、政府也好，其信息公开相关义务就结束了。
According to the actual situation of New Crown Pneumonia, the command requires the General Association of Charities to transfer social donation property to the relevant subjects.
夏彧歆：2月10日，为促进新冠肺炎疫情防控工作依法有序开展，全国人大常委会法制工作委员会相关室负责人，就疫情防控中社会普遍关心的法律问题进行了解答。
Xia Yu: On 10 February, to make sure that the work of preventing and controlling the new crown pneumonia is carried out in an orderly and legal manner, the head of the Legal Work Committee of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress answers legal questions that are of general interest to society in preventing and controlling the disease.
全国人大常委会法工委社会法室主任郭林茂就“公益慈善捐赠活动”，依据《公益事业捐赠法》《慈善法》《红十字会法》等法律，从“鼓励捐赠、公开透明、及时高效、公平合理、接受监督、依法追责”等六个方面进行阐述，并强调：“依法治国要求把国家各项事业纳入法治轨道，更需要全社会都要依法行事。
Guo Linmao, director of the Social Law Office of the Standing Committee of the NPC Standing Committee, elaborated on "charitable activities of public benefit" and other laws, including "encouraging donation, transparency, timely and efficient, fairness, supervision and legal accountability."
所以，具有慈心善行的捐赠人要合法捐赠，捐赠物品要符合安全、卫生、环保等标准，信守诺言;红十字会、各类慈善组织要依法及时高效、公平合理分配受赠款物，无愧捐赠人，无愧受益人;政府有关部门要对捐赠款物使用情况依法严格监督，对党负责，对人民负责。
The Red Cross Society and all kinds of charitable organizations should distribute the donations in a timely, efficient and fair manner, with clear conscience as beneficiaries. The relevant government departments should strictly supervise the use of donations in accordance with the law, be accountable to the Party and be accountable to the people.
同时，也欢迎全社会对公益慈善捐赠活动进行监督，为中国公益慈善事业的发展作一份贡献。
At the same time, the whole society is welcome to supervise the charitable activities of public welfare and make a contribution to the development of public charity in China.
” 我认为，在当前疫情防控和抗击的关键时期，各级党委、政府应当按照《慈善法》《公益事业捐赠法》等法律法规和与其配套的部门规章、规范性文件等，依法建立协调机制，提供需求信息，及时有序引导开展募捐和救助活动，并对捐赠款物使用情况依法严格监督;对目前无法律授权而又必须特殊处理的紧急情况，应当依法获得授权。
"I believe that in the current critical period of epidemic prevention, control and resistance, Party committees and governments at all levels should, in accordance with the Law on Charity, the Law on Donations to Public Welfare Enterprises and their corresponding departmental rules and normative documents, establish coordination mechanisms, provide demand information, guide fund-raising and rescue activities in a timely and orderly manner and strictly supervise the use of donations.
这才是“依法治国、依法行政”的落实和体现。
This is the "rule of law, administration by law" implementation and embodiment.
（原标题为《武汉市慈善总会27亿元善款上缴市财政？专家：若有此必要，须经法定程序》）(本文来自澎湃新闻，更多原创资讯请下载“澎湃新闻”APP)。
(Originally titled "Wuhan City Charity Association Donation of 2.7 Billion Dollars to the Municipal Finance? Expert: If necessary, it must go through legal procedures") (This article comes from Pai Pai News, please download the "Pai Pai News" APP).
责任编辑：钟煜豪。
Responsible Editor: Yuk Ho Chung.
澎湃新闻报料：4009-20-4009  澎湃新闻，未经授权不得转载。
Pai news: 4009-20-4009 surging news, not allowed to reproduce without authorization.
关键词 >> 慈善总会。
Keywords & gt; & gt; Charities & Associates.
收藏。
Collection.
跟踪: 新冠肺炎。
Tracking: New Crown Pneumonia.
相关推荐。
Relevant recommendations.
评论（455）。
Comment (455).
热新闻。
Hot news.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
任城监狱发生疫情确诊207例，山东司法厅厅长解维俊被免职。
Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases, Shandong Department of Justice Director Xie Weijun was dismissed.
山东任城监狱确诊207例新冠肺炎病例，当地通报感染细节。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases of new crown pneumonia, local notification infection details.
司法部监狱管理局：三省份五个监狱发生罪犯感染疫情。
Prison Administration of the Ministry of Justice: Five prisons in three provinces have an epidemic of infection.
武汉又一名抗疫医生离世，他叫肖俊。
Wuhan another anti-epidemic doctor died, his name is Xiao Jun.
浙江一监狱34名罪犯确诊感染新冠肺炎，监狱政委狱长被免职。
Thirty-four convicts in a prison in Zhejiang Province were diagnosed with pneumonia and the prison governor was dismissed.
湖北订正新冠肺炎疫情数据：新增631例，累计62662例。
Hubei revised outbreak data: 631 new cases, a total of 62,662 cases.
习近平主持召开政治局会议，研究新冠肺炎疫情防控工作。
Xi chaired a Politburo meeting to study the prevention and control of pneumonia in the New Crown.
甘肃新冠肺炎疫情防控应急响应级别由一级调整为三级。
The emergency response level of Gansu Xinguan Pneumonia was adjusted from level 1 to level 3.
中央政法委组成调查组赴山东调查任城监狱新冠肺炎疫情情况。
The CPLCC formed an investigation team to investigate the situation of Xinguan Pneumonia in Ren Cheng Prison in Shandong.
河南省原副省长徐光严重违纪违法被“双开”。
Xu Guang, former vice-governor of Henan Province, was "double-opened" for serious disciplinary violations.
全民阻击 | 托举生命的方舟。
AT THE ARK OF LIFE.
任城监狱发生疫情确诊207例，山东司法厅厅长解维俊被免职。
Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases, Shandong Department of Justice Director Xie Weijun was dismissed.
27名科学家柳叶刀发声明：强烈谴责新冠非自然起源的阴谋论。
Twenty-seven scientists issued a statement strongly condemning the conspiracy theory of the unnatural origin of the new name.
山东任城监狱确诊207例新冠肺炎病例，当地通报感染细节。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases of new crown pneumonia, local notification infection details.
新加坡部长录音泄露：是谁助长疫情恐慌。
Singapore Minister's taped message: Who is fomenting the epidemic?
孙小果被执行死刑。
Sun Xiaoguo was executed.
湖北新增新冠肺炎确诊病例349例，累计62031例。
There were 349 confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia in Hubei Province, a total of 62,031 cases.
中方坚决反对美拟将中国驻美新闻机构标识为外交使团的做法。
China firmly opposes the US move to label Chinese news agencies in the United States as diplomatic missions.
湖北各企业不早于3月10日24时前复工，学校延期开学。
Hubei enterprises not earlier than 24 hours before 10 March resumption of work, the school was postponed.
延迟婚期坚守一线武汉医生彭银华感染新冠肺炎离世。
Delayed marriage adhere to a first-line Wuhan doctor Peng Yinhua died of new crown pneumonia.
海报｜我不知道你是谁，但我知道你为了谁。
I don't know who you are, but I know for whom you are.
全民阻击 | 托举生命的方舟。
AT THE ARK OF LIFE.
任城监狱发生疫情确诊207例，山东司法厅厅长解维俊被免职。
Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases, Shandong Department of Justice Director Xie Weijun was dismissed.
岳阳医院一患者隐瞒病情致多名医务工作者被隔离，警方立案！。
A patient in Yueyang Hospital conceals his illness and many medical workers are quarantined. Police file a case.
27名科学家柳叶刀发声明：强烈谴责新冠非自然起源的阴谋论。
Twenty-seven scientists issued a statement strongly condemning the conspiracy theory of the unnatural origin of the new name.
习近平：在中央政治局常委会会议研究应对疫情工作时的讲话。
Xi: Speech at the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Politburo to study the response to the epidemic.
法医刘良：完成全国首例新冠逝者遗体解剖。
Forensic Liu Liang: Completion of the nation's first new crown deceased body autopsy.
湖北电影制片厂员工常凯及三至亲去世，其妻、子目前情况较好。
Hubei film studio staff Changkai and three relatives died, his wife, son is in good condition.
山东任城监狱确诊207例新冠肺炎病例，当地通报感染细节。
Shandong Ren Cheng prison confirmed 207 cases of new crown pneumonia, local notification infection details.
武汉武昌医院院长刘智明因感染新冠肺炎去世。
Liu Zhiming, director of Wuhan Wuchang Hospital, died of pneumonia.
澎湃新闻APP下载。
Pai news APP download.
热话题。
Hot topics.
一天。
One day.
三天。
Three days.
一周。
One week.
我是在日本新闻一线工作,新冠疫情中日本政界和民众态度如何,问我吧!。
I am working in the front line of Japanese journalism. What is the attitude of Japanese politics and people in the New Crown Epidemic? Ask me.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
我是中国农科院副研究员涂雄兵,亚非蝗灾的破坏有多大,问吧!。
I am Tu Xiongbing, assistant researcher of the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
武汉的朋友，你们现在还好吗？。
Wuhan friends, are you all right now?
我长期从事穿山甲生态学研究,穿山甲有着怎样的习性,问吧!。
I have long been engaged in pangolin ecology research, pangolin has what kind of habits, ask.
疫情面前，你家亲戚让你操心了吗？。
Did your relatives worry you about the outbreak?
我是公共卫生史学者邹翔,欧美国家如何进行隔离检疫,问我吧!。
I am Zou Xiang, a public health historian, how to quarantine in Europe and America. Ask me.
我是韩国成均馆大学研究员于婉莹,韩国影视如何走向世界,问吧!。
I am Yu Wanying, a researcher at Sungkyunkwan University in Korea.
热门推荐。
Hot recommendations.
专题丨双“特”战“疫”。
The topic is the "special" battle of the plague.
湖北回应新冠肺炎病例数据统计口径变化：取消临床诊断类目。
Statistical Change of Hubei's Response to Newcrown Pneumonia Data: Cancellation of Clinical Diagnosis Category.
全国三万多名医务人员驰援湖北，国家卫健委：生命相托的使命。
More than 30, 000 medical personnel across the country rushed to Hubei, the National Health Commission: life entrusted to the mission.
@上海中小学生和家长，在线教育如何开展？你关心的都在这里。
@ Shanghai primary and secondary school students and parents, online education how to carry out? You care about here.
外交部回应个别外媒称新冠病毒为“生化武器”言论：荒谬无知。
The Foreign Office has responded to what some foreign media have called the new crown virus a "biological weapon": absurd ignorance.
var lbdHeight = $(".head_ad").height()+$(".head").height()+$(".main_rt").height()-260; //滑到体到顶部的高度。
var lbdLight = $(& quot; .head _ ad & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .head & quot;) .height () + $(& quot; .main _ rt & quot;) .light (-260; / / sliding to top height.
var topHeight = parseInt($(window).scrollTop() + 1 + 70);  //浮动频道高度70。
var topLight = parseInt ($(window) .scrollTop (+ 1 + 70); / / floating channel height 70.
联系我们。
Contact us.
关于澎湃。
About the roar.
在澎湃工作。
Working in the roar.
联系我们。
Contact us.
版权声明。
Copyright statement.
隐私政策。
Privacy policy.
澎湃广告。
There was a roaring advertisement.
友情链接。
Links to friends.
澎湃新闻举报受理和处置办法。
Measures for handling and handling surging news reports.
严正声明。
Solemn declaration.
Copyright © 2014~2020 The Paper All rights reserved.上海东方报业有限公司 | 沪ICP证：沪B2-20170116 | 沪ICP备14003370号 | 互联网新闻信息服务许可证：31120170006。
Shanghai Oriental Daily News Ltd. & # 144; Shanghai ICP Certificate: Shanghai B2-20170116 & # 124; Shanghai ICP Readiness 14003370 & # 124; Internet News Information Service license: 31120170006.
沪公网安备 31010602000299号。
Shanghai Public Net 3101 602000299.
站长统计。
Station master statistics.
c={//监测配置。
c = {/ monitoring configuration.
UA:"UA-thepaper-000002", //客户项目编号,由系统生成。
UA: & quot; UA-theaper-000002 & quot;, / or customer project number, generated by the system.
URL:'//file.thepaper.cn/www/v3/js/iwt-min.js'//iwt.js的URL位置，请客户自行托管JS文件，只需修改此值。
URL::: / / file.thepaper.cn / www.v3 / js / iwt-min.js & apos; / / iwt.js URL location; and / or iwt.js, have its client manage a JS file by yourself, simply modify this value.
//多视频。
/ / Multi-Video.
