猪也饿，二师兄挺住！。
Pigs are hungry too. Second brother hold on!
李晓洁 ​杨璐。
Li Xiaojie Zhang Lu.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
猪饲料的主要成分是玉米和豆粕，这看似简单，却是一条牵涉很广的供应链和交通链。
The main components of pig feed are corn and soybean meal, which seem simple but involve a wide supply chain and transportation chain.
湖北省不是玉米的主产区，玉米来自东北。
Hubei Province is not the main production area of corn, corn from the Northeast.
1月28号，湖北省家禽业协会分别向中国储备粮管理集团和中粮集团发出紧急求援函，希望两家公司对口支援湖北玉米和豆粕。
On January 28, the Hubei poultry association sent emergency letters of assistance to the China Reserve Grain Management Group and the China Food Group respectively, hoping that the two companies would provide counterpart support to Hubei corn and soybean meal.
湖北省交通管制已经有所松动，但工人复工仍有较大困难。
Traffic control in Hubei Province has eased somewhat, but it is still difficult for workers to get back to work.
实习记者 | 李晓洁记者 | 杨璐猪也要断粮了▲▲▲湖北宜都市聂家河镇的老贺是当地养猪户，他这个年并不好过。
Li Xiaojie a reporter and Yang Lu must also be off food. Lao He, a local pig farmer in Yidong, Hubei province, has had a tough year.
往年的这个时候，老贺存栏的400多头猪，已经有100多头可以开始卖了，但现在，他还在为猪饲料着急。
At this time of year, more than 100 of the more than 400 pigs in the Lao She Inventory can already be sold, but he is still worried about pig feed.
腊月二十七，老贺开了一小时车，去附近镇上的饲料厂进货，按正常的量进了10吨全价料，如果每天喂1吨，这些饲料够他的猪吃10天左右。
On the 27th of December, Lao He drove an hour to the feeder factory in the nearby town to get in at the normal rate of 10 tons of full feed, enough to feed his pig for about 10 days if he fed one ton a day.
大年初一，老贺所在的村开始封路，他有点意识到疫情的严重性，但没想到会封多久。
New Year's Day, the village where Lao He began to seal the road, he was a little aware of the severity of the epidemic, but did not expect to be closed for long.
直到初四，猪饲料所剩无几，饲料厂还没开工，村里封路的措施却越来越严，横幅、栏杆横跨在村与村之间，老贺才开始给400多头猪减量，一天只喂一半的量，大约能撑到2月4号。
By the end of the fourth day, there was little pig feed left, the feeder factory had not yet begun, and the village had tightened road closures. Banners and railing stretched between the village and the village before Lao He began to reduce the number of pigs by half a day, about February 4.
即使这样，老贺还得想其他办法，比如在朋友圈求助，向附近的农户收集玉米。
Even so, he has to figure out other ways, such as turning to friends for help and collecting corn from nearby farmers.
图 | 视觉中国但定量喂食不是长久之计，猪吃不饱，一是生长得慢；二是免疫力下降，猪容易生病。
But quantitative feeding is not a long-term strategy in China. Pigs don't get enough, they grow slowly, and their immune systems decline, making them susceptible to disease.
减量了几天，猪已经明眼可见地变瘦。
After a few days of reduction, the pig had become visibly thinner.
老贺说，“镇上的饲料厂初六开工，初七就把库存饲料卖光了，我去问的时候，饲料厂已经没有原料可以加工了。
"The town's feed factory started on the sixth day of the first six, the stock of feed sold out, I asked when the feed factory has no raw materials to process.
”附近镇子的饲料厂是当地几百家养猪户目前补充饲料的主要渠道，虽然平日也会从外省进饲料，但现在，“外省的饲料根本运不过来。
Feed factories in nearby towns, the main source of feed for hundreds of local pig farmers, now run out of "provincial" fodder, even though feed is usually imported from the provinces.
”饲料厂没有原料，是疫情下的湖北的普遍现象。
Feed factory has no raw materials, which is a common phenomenon in Hubei under the epidemic situation.
何洁是宜昌市饲料行业协会的会长，宜昌九鼎牧业公司的董事，公司主要加工、生产猪饲料、家禽饲料和水产料，做批发直销，客户基本面向省内。
He Jie is the head of Yichang Feeding Industry Association, director of Yichang Jiuding Animal Husbandry Company, which mainly processes and produces pig feed, poultry feed and aquatic products, and distributes directly to the province.
他告诉本刊，饲料厂在春节前一般会储备一些成品饲料，供给年后急需饲料的养殖户，今年因为疫情的影响，厂子迟迟没有开工，但库存还是在初七那天基本用完。
He told this print, the fodder factory in the Spring Festival will generally store some finished products feed, feed farmers in urgent need of feed after the year, due to the impact of the epidemic, this year, the factory did not start, but stocks were still in the seventh day of the basic use of stocks.
“因为有些客户情况特别紧急，已经没办法维持了。
"There are customers who are in a particularly urgent situation and cannot be maintained.
”这些紧急的客户，要么是饲料储备不足，要么是心理恐慌，早早地联系上何洁，所以库存很快就没了。
These emergency customers, either running short of fodder supplies or panicked psychologically, contacted Ho Jie early, so inventories quickly disappeared.
疫情让养猪产业链梗阻▲▲▲湖北省内的养猪户，首先到达饲料厂就不容易。
The outbreak of pig industry chain obstruction in Hubei Province pig farmers, the first to arrive at the feed factory is not easy.
为了防止疫情扩散，湖北省内陆续实行了交通管制，必须有运送救援物资的绿色通行证才能上路，否则要受到处罚。
In order to prevent the spread of the epidemic, traffic control has been carried out in Hubei Province.
买饲料需要养猪户自己开车到饲料厂去领取。
Feed needs to be bought by pig farmers themselves to drive to the feed factory to collect.
为了确保农业生产，湖北省现在也给农户发放通行证，有需求的人可以跟当地政府申请，核实后发放，效用为期一天。
To ensure agricultural production, Hubei Province now also issues laissez-passer to farmers. Those who need them can apply to the local government for verification and distribution for one day.
可问题是，除了公路，要想到达饲料厂，还得经过蜿蜒曲折的乡村道路，它属于不同的村子，现在村村都设置了路障。
The problem is that, in addition to roads, it takes a winding country road to reach the feeder factory, which belongs to a different village where roadblocks are now in place.
何洁说：“因为是疫情防控特殊时期，有的村级公路不知道是被谁用泥堵上了，还是有很多客户拿不到饲料。
He said: "Because it is a special period of disease control, some village-level roads do not know who blocked with mud, or there are many customers can not get feed.
”何洁在大年三十就意识到了疫情的影响。
He Jie became aware of the impact of the epidemic in her late thirties.
他在当天的微信群里看到了交通管制的信息，得知初一早上6点开封，紧接着，宜昌整个周边县市都在执行交通管制。
He saw traffic control information in the group of micro-letters that day, learned that the first day of the first morning Kaifeng, immediately after, Yichang the entire surrounding county in the implementation of traffic control.
“一下子就紧张起来。
"" It makes me nervous.
”这让他想到去年的非洲猪瘟，担心类似的病毒侵袭情况在人身上发生。
That reminds him of last year's African pig disease, which he fears could occur in humans.
初二那天，公司成立了应急管理小组，对之后的保产工作进行分工。
On the second day of junior high school, the company set up an emergency management team, after the division of labor.
一是在内部，统计客户的饲料需求和工厂储备数量；二是在外部加强与政府的沟通，让政府了解养殖业对饲料需求的特殊性，但当时并没有得到政府的明确回复。
First, internally, it counted the demand for fodder from customers and the number of factory reserves. Second, it strengthened communication with the government to let the government know the particularity of the demand for fodder, but did not receive a definite reply from the government.
同时，工厂购买了几千只工人用的劳保口罩及其他防护物资，算是提前做了些自救工作。
At the same time, the factory bought thousands of workers' labor masks and other protective materials, in advance of doing some self-help work.
图 | 视觉中国尽管他自己尽了力，但饲料厂缺少原料、工人无法复工的外部因素，是依靠他自己没办法解决的。
Vision China Despite all its efforts, the external factors that kept the factory short of raw materials and workers unable to get back to work were beyond his control.
猪饲料的主要成分是玉米和豆粕，这看似简单，却是一条供应链和交通链。
The main components of pig feed are corn and soybean meal, which seem simple, but a supply chain and transportation chain.
湖北省不是玉米的主产区，玉米来自东北。
Hubei Province is not the main production area of corn, corn from the Northeast.
何洁告诉本刊，他们工厂的玉米一般是从大连运到南通港，在南通港走水路进入湖北，运到各个厂家。
He Jie told this print, their factory corn generally from Dalian to Nantong Port, in Nantong Port by waterway into Hubei, transported to various manufacturers.
除了水路，陆路交通主要是省内和省外进来的汽车运输，省内运送油糠、麸皮等原料；省外运送氨基酸、维生素之类原料。
In addition to waterways, land transportation consists mainly of transportation by car in and out of the province, transportation of raw materials such as bran and bran in the province, and transportation of amino acids and vitamins outside the province.
因为疫情在全国范围的蔓延，1月27号，沈阳铁路局下达了对湖北武汉潜江等地停运通知，南京港、南通港、安庆港对湖北方向实行交通管制，省际之间的汽运交通困难，导致饲料原料输送困难。
Because of the nationwide spread of the epidemic, on January 27, Shenyang Railway Bureau issued a notice to stop the transportation of Hubei Wuhan submerged river. Nanjing Port, Nantong Port and Anqing Port imposed traffic control on Hubei.
1月28号，湖北省家禽业协会分别向中国储备粮管理集团和中粮集团发出紧急求援函，希望两家公司对口支援湖北玉米和豆粕。
On January 28, the Hubei poultry association sent emergency letters of assistance to the China Reserve Grain Management Group and the China Food Group respectively, hoping that the two companies would provide counterpart support to Hubei corn and soybean meal.
1月30号，湖北省重点农牧集团晨科农牧在其微信平台发布求救文章，希望各界关注湖北省的几亿只鸡和1600多万头猪。
On January 30, the Chenke Agriculture and Animal Husbandry group of Hubei Province issued a call for help on its micromail platform, hoping to draw attention to hundreds of millions of chickens and more than 16 million pigs in Hubei Province.
图 | 摄图网交通管制情况已经有所松动。
AT RATE & # # 124; Traffic control has eased somewhat.
湖北省交通运输厅在2月1日发布的《厅党组扩大会议要求：确保防疫物资、生活保障物资、特殊人员运输通道》中提到，交通绝不能中断，要强化与外省、综合交通的沟通协调，要确保外省支援湖北的物资运输通畅。
The Ministry of Transport and Communications of Hubei Province issued on February 1 the "Requests of the Expanded Meeting of Office Party Groups: Ensuring epidemic prevention materials, life support materials and special people's transport corridors" that traffic must not be interrupted.
晨科农牧也在网络平台上更新消息，称“东北玉米在东北的运输启动，已经有玉米等饲料原料装出。
Morningside farming also updated information on the network platform, said that "the Northeast corn in the northeast of the start of the transport, has corn and other feed materials installed.
”但是除了饲料，工人复工也有很大的困难。
But apart from feed, the workers had great difficulty getting back to work.
码头装卸工、饲料厂工人、运输工人等人员暂时还不能或不愿工作。
Pier loaders, feeder factory workers, transport workers and others are temporarily unable or unwilling to work.
宜都市红花套镇临近长江，镇政府工作人员告诉本刊，他们镇子上的水路暂时还在封闭，码头属于企业，现在镇上所有企业都是停工状态。
The town of Ikea is close to the Yangtze River, and its officials told the magazine that the waterway in their town was temporarily closed, that the docks were businesses and that all businesses in the town were now closed.
而何洁的饲料厂也有部分工人被困在小区内隔离。
Some workers at Ho Jie's feeder factory are also trapped in a small area of isolation.
没被隔离的工人中，不排除一部分有恐慌心理，“他们不愿意到人多的地方做事”。
Some of the unsegregated workers, not to say fearful, "don't want to work in crowded places."
再加上湖北疫情严重，有些地方“只进不出”，外省的运输司机嫌麻烦，不太愿意来。
Coupled with the serious epidemic in Hubei Province, some places "only can not enter", the provincial transport drivers are troublesome, unwilling to come.
2月3日，何洁终于等到宜昌市农业农村局、防控指挥部的批示，开始小规模复工。
Feb. 3, He Jie finally waited for Yichang City Agricultural and Rural Bureau, the command of control and prevention began small-scale resumption of work.
据他所知，宜昌市有两家饲料厂复工，湖北省其他市区也选择了少量优秀企业复工，部分原料可以经水路和陆路运往湖北。
As far as he knows, two feedstuff factories have returned to work in Yichang, and a few other urban areas in Hubei Province have returned to work.
“如果是往年，现在厂子已经搞得热火朝天了。
"If it had been the year before, the factory would have been in full swing.
”何洁说。
"said Ho Jie.
对价格的影响▲▲▲去年的非洲猪瘟导致猪肉价格暴涨，根据农业农村部的数据，全国猪肉平均价格最高达到每公斤近60元。
Effects on Prices Last year's African swine fever caused a spike in pork prices, which, according to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, averaged nearly 60 yuan per kilogram nationwide.
猪瘟也让养猪户受到巨大损失，好不容易在去年年底有所缓解，新冠肺炎又给养猪户带来了阻碍。
Swine distemper also caused huge losses to pig farmers, which were eased at the end of last year, and the new crown pneumonia has created obstacles for pig farmers.
养猪户和饲料厂现在所遇到的困境，很快就会传导到消费端。
The difficulties faced by pig farmers and feed factories will soon be transmitted to the consumer side.
猪贩子和猪肉屠宰场目前也大都没开工。
Most of the pig traders and slaughterhouses have not started.
彭华是湖北的猪贩子，主要面向湖北省内进行生猪买卖交易，一般把猪卖给屠宰场和生肉加工集团。
Penghua, a pig trader based in Hubei province, sells pigs to slaughterhouses and raw meat processing groups.
往年在初四左右，他就开始去养猪户那里收猪，一天十几头、二十几头都有可能。
In the past year or so, he began to pig farmers where pigs, a dozen a day, more than 20 are possible.
图 | 摄图网彭华告诉本刊，今年他一单生意还没做，第一是因为封路，第二是因为没有销售渠道。
Peng Hua, a photo-graphic network, told the print that he had not yet done a single deal this year, first because of the road closures and secondly because there was no distribution channel.
屠宰场还没开门，别的渠道也都没人买。
The slaughterhouse had not opened, and no one else had bought it.
“现在群众需要的主要还是米油面这些生活必需品，对猪肉的需求还不多。
"The people still need rice noodle, the basic necessities of life, the demand for pork is not much.
”彭华说，只要有人需要猪肉，封路都不算是问题，但就他所知，现在不仅是湖北，一些跑外省的猪贩子，也很少有开工的，只是湖北这边更严重。
PengHua says road closures are not a problem as long as people need pork, but as far as he knows, not only Hubei, but also some provincial pig traders are starting work, only on the northern side of Hubei province.
在宜昌开了11年屠宰场的陈旺也有同样的经历，往年初三，屠宰场开工，60个工人陆续来上班，但今年陈旺还不知道什么时候才能复工。
Chen, who opened an 11-year slaughterhouse in Yichang, had a similar experience, starting on the third day of the year, when 60 workers began arriving, but Chen did not know when to resume work this year.
一是因为他供货的几家本地超市，目前还没有向他发出订单需求，“没人需要猪肉”；二是因为政府还没通知具体可以开工的时间，“我也不清楚要等到什么时候。
One is that the local supermarkets he supplies have no demand for orders "no one needs pork"; the other is that the government has not yet informed him when it will be possible to start, "I don't know when.
”彭华告诉本刊，如果继续等下去，长时间无法开工，养猪户存栏中已经成年的肥猪卖不出去，一旦开工，大批量的猪就会因为需要交易出去而降低价格，这对养猪户又是另一方面的打击。
Penghua told the magazine that if it continued to wait long periods of time, pig farms would not be able to sell their grown-up pigs, and once work began, large numbers of pigs would have to trade down prices, another blow to pig farmers.
图 | 摄图网在饲料短缺的情况下，养猪户通常会为了节省饲料而减量，或是给猪喂食自制的简易玉米粉，长期营养不足的猪还会引发其他问题。
Photo / # 124In a feed shortage, pig farmers typically cut back to save feed, or feed pigs homemade simple corn flour. Long-term undernourished pigs can cause other problems.
湖南执业兽医黎瑞雄说，“健康的猪身上也携带病原但不会发病，一旦饲料营养不足，产生应激则很容易出现亚健康甚至导致疾病。
"Healthy pigs also carry the pathogen but don't get sick," said Li Ruixiong, a certified veterinary surgeon in Hunan.
对于猪肉的卫生，则无须过多担心。
There is no need to worry too much about the hygiene of pork.
”猪病专家樊福好也告诉本刊，“营养不足或营养不平衡，都会导致生产性能的下降，甚至会导致疫病的爆发流行。
"Fan Fook-hao, an expert in pig disease, also told the magazine that" inadequate nutrition or unbalanced nutrition can lead to a decline in production performance and even outbreaks of disease.
尤其是在非洲猪瘟仍有威胁的情况之下，这个问题一旦发生，将会更严重。
This problem will become more serious once it occurs, particularly in the context of the continuing threat of African swine fever.
”相比于湖北的养猪户，疫情较为严重的其他地区，因为目前封路的程度较弱，每村都还留着一条主干道，养猪户受到的打击也小得多。
Compared with Hubei pig farmers, other areas with more severe epidemics have been hit much harder by the current low level of road closures, which leave a main thoroughfare in each village.
安徽某村的养猪散户蔡峰，年前卖掉了约100头猪，现在存栏有30多头种猪，等着生猪仔，同时也养了60多只羊。
Cai Feng, a pig breeder from a village in Anhui province, sold about 100 pigs a year ago and now has more than 30 breeding pigs waiting for their pigs and more than 60 sheep.
因为春节前的饲料储备不足，蔡峰在1月30号联系到县城的一家饲料厂，进了10吨猪饲料，大约能吃到5月份。
Cai Feng contacted a feedstuff factory in the county on January 30 to get 10 tons of pig feed for about the month of May because of the shortage of fodder stocks before the Spring Festival.
蔡峰说，村里的路没有全封，留着通往省道的主路。
Mr. Cai said the village road was not completely closed, leaving the main road to the provincial road.
“我住在省道附近，还能进到饲料。
"I live near the dart and get in the feed.
”只不过饲料的运费比之前涨了不少，原先一吨饲料是30-50的运费，现在要近200块。
Feed rates are up a lot, from 30 to 50 for a tonne of feed to nearly 200 now.
河南也是疫情较为严重的省份，信阳市固始县的养猪户汪友中，在非洲猪瘟肆虐前存栏有1000多头猪，现在仅有约100头种猪。
Henan is also a serious epidemic of the province, Xinyang GuShixian pig farmers Wang You, in the African swine fever raging before the inventory of more than 1,000 pigs, there are only about 100 breeding pigs.
年前备下的10吨饲料，大约能撑到正月二十。
The 10 tons of fodder laid out a few years ago will last until about the twentieth of January.
汪友忠告诉本刊，自己一直在关注新冠肺炎。
Wang Youzhong told the print that he has been concerned about the new crown pneumonia.
他几天前联系了县城里的经销商，让商家给他留点饲料，但他更担心的是没有人愿意出来工作，猪也销售不出去。
He contacted dealers in the county a few days ago to save him some fodder, but was more worried that no one was willing to go out to work and that pigs could not be sold.
而湖北的养猪户老贺已无暇顾及其他，他想的是，“我的猪能不能卖出去都还不要紧，我可以多喂一段时间。
Hubei pig farmers have no time for other, he thought, "my pig can not be sold or not, I can feed for a while.
肺炎人传人的问题，在我们农村来说也没有蛮大关系，我们自己也管控得很好，我现在就担心饲料问题。
Pneumonia person-to-person problem, in our rural areas is not quite a matter of concern, we ourselves control well, I now worry about feed problems.
”听说何洁的饲料厂小规模复工的消息，他决定，明天一早就驾车去取货。
Hearing of the small-scale resumption of work at Ho Jie's feed factory, he decided to drive to pick it up early tomorrow morning.
（文中陈旺、蔡峰为化名）作者档案杨璐《三联生活周刊》资深主笔。
(In the text Chen Wang, Cai Feng for alias) the author file Yang Lu "three Lives Weekly" senior lead pen.
我就静静地看着这个世界。
I just watch the world silently.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@三联璐璐杨请戳→【武汉新冠肺炎系列报道】⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Lifestyle Weekly Personal Weibo 26 minutes ago: @ three Lu Lu Yang please poke [Wuhan Xinguan Pneumonia Series] Article copyright belongs to the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to friends circle, reprint please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
猪也饿，二师兄挺住！。
Pigs are hungry too. Second brother hold on!
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "猪也饿，二师兄挺住！";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; and the pig was hungry, too. Second brother! & quot;
var msg_desc = "猪饲料的主要成分是玉米和豆粕，这看似简单，却是一条牵涉很广的供应链和交通链。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; pig feed is made up mainly of corn and soybean meal, a seemingly simple but extensive supply chain and transportation chain.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
