疫情中，驰援武汉的私家车主。
During the epidemic, private car owners in Wuhan.
刘妍。
Yi Liu.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
个体救援，也是新冠肺炎疫情的重要救援力量，从农民工到退伍军人，他们以杯水尝试灭熄瘟疫之火，很多人甚至都没有留下姓名。
Individual rescuers, from migrant workers to veterans of the New Crown Pneumonia epidemic, are trying to extinguish the plague, many without even leaving their names.
大年初五，私家车主雷鹏驾车16小时急行1100公里，直抵武汉，成为了一名救援志愿者。
At the beginning of the year, private car owner Lei Peng drove 1100 kilometers, straight to Wuhan, became a rescue volunteers.
这是真实故事计划第548个故事故事时间：2020年故事地点：武汉夜里23点29分，高速公路空荡如时空隧道，远处灯光鬼火一般地忽闪，雷鹏打开车内音响，一首首连放Beyond，给自己壮势。
At 23: 29 p. m., Wuhan, the expressway is empty like a time-space tunnel. The lights go off like wildfire in the distance. Peng Lei opens his car stereo and plays Beyond one by one to show off his strength.
1月27日傍晚，他从河北保定出发，准备跨越3个省，自驾1100公里到武汉。
January 27 evening, he set out from Baoding, Hebei Province, ready to cross three provinces, driving 1100 kilometers to Wuhan.
此时车子已驶出400公里，遇到的车还不到30辆。
By this time the car had driven 400 km and had encountered less than 30 vehicles.
路途过于冷清，对将要抵达的前方，这个47岁的男人产生了不寒而栗的感觉。
The journey was too bleak, and the 47-year-old man shuddered at the prospect of arriving.
雷鹏是硬着头皮上路的。
Leipeng took the road bravely.
临要出门，他才在饭桌上吐露，自己要去疫区当志愿者。
Before going out, he just revealed on the dinner table, oneself want to be a volunteer in the epidemic area.
父亲怒斥他一意孤行，母亲直接给正在娘家照料老人的儿媳妇拨去电话，让她赶快劝劝雷鹏。
Father angrily scolded him, the mother directly to the mother is caring for the old man's daughter-in-law dialed, let her quickly persuade Lei Peng.
劝说和呵斥都不会起到任何作用，雷鹏早就收拾好简单的行李——几件换洗衣裳、一台相机、不多的现金。
Neither persuasion nor rebuke will help. Leipeng has packed his simple luggage - a few change of clothes, a camera and a small amount of cash.
前夜，他还特意早早睡下，保证第二天有充沛的体力。
The night before, he made a point of going to bed early to ensure that he had plenty of energy the next day.
自1月22日，睡前看疫情地图成了雷鹏的习惯。
Since January 22, it has become Lei Peng's habit to read the epidemic map before going to bed.
雷鹏祖籍在湖北黄冈浠水县，常开车到湖北探亲访友，疫情地图上深浅不一的红色斑块，于他而言，则是一条条有具体印象的、熟悉的街道。
It is indicated that Lei Peng is a well-known street with specific impressions in these area which drive to Hubei area to visit their relatives and friends.
不断上涨的新增病例看得他心里发慌，除夕刚过，黄冈老家的医院也开始紧急求援，雷鹏瞬时坐不住了。
Rising new cases make him nervous, just after the New Year's Eve, Huanggang home hospital also began to call for emergency assistance, Lei Peng immediately sat down.
在网上，他以“湖北 志愿者”为关键词检索，将搜寻到的志愿者组织逐个联系了一遍。
On the Internet, he "Hubei volunteers" as the keyword search, will find the volunteer organizations one by one contact.
因湖北各市封城封路，异地志愿者难以通行，雷鹏发出的消息均无后文。
Due to the closure of Hubei cities, volunteers from different places are difficult to pass, Lei Peng sent messages are no later.
1月26日，终于有人与他联络，同意接收异地志愿者。
On 26 January, he was finally contacted and agreed to receive volunteers from other locations.
对方发来一张印有武汉红十字会标识的通行证照片，告诉雷鹏，如路上遇到通行问题，可随时打电话，他们会帮忙沟通。
The other party sent a pass with the Wuhan Red Cross logo, told Lei Peng, if the road encountered traffic problems, they can call at any time, they will help communicate.
那几天，雷鹏接收到的疫情信息是芜杂的，而这个抛来橄榄枝的组织正被卷在舆情中心，网友各有说法，真相掖掖藏藏。
In those days, Lei Peng received information about the epidemic situation is turnip, and this throwing olive branch of the organization is being swept in the center of public opinion, netizens say, the truth tuck in.
雷鹏打算主动求索，他相信，要亲眼见证，才能在谣言漫天飞的信息网中抓住最真实的东西。
Leipeng intends to actively seek, he believes, to witness, in order to fly in the rumour of the information network to seize the most real thing.
年轻时雷鹏当过炮兵，一九九八年张北地震，他想去救援，因部队有其他指令未能前行。
When young Lei Peng was an artillery officer, Zhang Bei earthquake in 1998, he wanted to go to the rescue, because the army had other orders to go ahead.
这一次，他决心抓住机会，无论如何也要到疫区前线去。
This time, he was determined to seize the opportunity to go to the front of the epidemic area anyway.
这趟行程原本有个同伴。
There was a companion on this trip.
雷鹏开宝骏车，听说自己要去武汉疫区做志愿者，宝骏车友会的一个哥们与他约定同行。
Lei Peng Kaibao steed, I heard that he would be doing volunteers in Wuhan epidemic area, Baojun Association of a buddy and he agreed to travel.
但因哥们的家人强烈反对，最终，二人出征变成他独自上路。
But because of the strong opposition of his family, eventually, the two men out into his own road.
次日中午，车子驶进武汉蔡甸区，被交警拦下了。
At noon the next day, the car into the Cai Den district of Wuhan, was stopped by traffic police.
几番磋商，交警得知雷鹏是从河北跑来做志愿者的，说了一堆感谢的话，但无论什么理由，就是不准过。
Several consultations, the traffic police learned that Lei Peng from Hebei to do volunteers, said a lot of words of gratitude, but no matter what the reason, is not allowed.
大概是为了回报雷鹏的善意，站在一旁观望的陌生人拉住雷鹏，悄悄给他指了另一条未设关卡的路径。
Perhaps in return for Lei Peng's goodwill, standing on the side of a stranger watching Lei Peng, quietly pointed out to him another route without a barrier.
夜行时的人烟寥落，雷鹏只感到新奇，凌晨1点他路过黄河畔，还兴奋地拍了段视频发到朋友圈。
Leipeng only felt novel when he passed the bank of the Yellow River at 1 a. m., and sent a video of himself to his friends.
现在，眼前超现实的情景让他有些害怕了。
Now he was a little frightened by the surreal scene before him.
若非亲身体验，他绝不会相信这是在武汉的主干道上奔驰，进入市区、停车、与志愿者组织接应，整个过程，所见行人也不过百人。
He would never have believed, had he not personally experienced it, that it was speeding down Wuhan's main thoroughfare, entering the city, stopping to pick up volunteers, and meeting only a hundred pedestrians in the process.
图 | 武汉街头，清洁工正戴着口罩扫地到了志愿者的工作据点，雷鹏想先在周边找个便宜的小宾馆安顿下来，随即发现，任何规模的宾馆、酒店均不接待外地人。
When Leipeng first sought a cheap guesthouse nearby to settle down on the street in Wuhan, where he was sweeping the floor with a mask, he found that no hotel or hotel of any size received outsiders.
昔日人头攒动的商业街这会儿静得诡异，沿街的商铺都紧闭着卷帘门，整条街，只有一家早餐店还开着。
The formerly crowded commercial streets were now strangely quiet, with all but one breakfast-shop open, with the curling doors shut along the street.
迅速蔓延开来的病毒，好似按动了某个开关，将这座千万级人口的都市变成另一座城，萧条又陌生。
The rapidly spreading virus, like a switch, turns this multimillion-level city into another, depressed and strange.
抵达武汉的第一晚，没寻到住处的雷鹏干脆待在志愿者休息室，陪几名志愿者值了个夜班。
Arrived in Wuhan on the first night, did not find accommodation Lei Peng simply stay in the volunteer lounge, with a few volunteers worth a night shift.
隔天，组织里一个叫萧萧的女孩，帮忙联系到武昌区的一家青年公寓。
The next day, the organization of a girl called Xiao Xiao, to help contact a youth apartment in Wuchang District.
老板说，可以免费为从外地赶来的志愿者提供10间住房，直至疫情结束。
The boss said 10 houses could be provided free of charge for volunteers arriving from outside the country until the end of the epidemic.
拉着行李搬到暂时的居所，脱下鞋袜，雷鹏被自己的脚臭熏得头疼。
Pull the luggage to the temporary residence, take off shoes and socks, Lei Peng is smoked by his own fetid headache.
他已经两天没脱鞋了。
He hasn't taken off his shoes in two days.
图| 工作间隙，雷鹏在吃盒饭雷鹏被分配至物资组，负责装卸货物，清点登记。
Between work and work, Leipeng was assigned to the Materials Group to load and unload goods and check and register.
不到9点，一拨拨运送物资的车接踵而至，将临时改为仓库的办公大厅填满又搬空。
Less than 9 a.m., a convoy of trucks carrying supplies arrived, filling and emptying the office lobby, which had been temporarily converted into a warehouse.
傍晚未过，雷鹏就见到近十种不同类型的车辆，消防车、救护车、城管巡逻车、政府公务车、卡车，还有一辆喷着“武装押运”字样的运钞车，装了满车散件口罩离去。
Before nightfall, Lei Peng saw nearly 10 different types of vehicles, fire trucks, ambulances, urban patrol vehicles, government official vehicles, trucks, and a cash transport vehicle with the words "armed escort," loaded with scattered masks and left.
新鲜、兴奋的感觉很快替代了慌乱，每见到新的车型，雷鹏就会拍视频和照片发到车友会的群里。
Fresh, excited feeling quickly replaced panic, every time saw a new car model, Lei Peng will take video and photos to be sent to the group of car friends.
车友们看到雷鹏发来的视频，调侃说，来到武汉后，雷鹏突然从一个喷子变成了正能量的传播者。
Car friends see Lei Peng sent video, joke said that came to Wuhan, Lei Peng suddenly from a jet into a positive energy disseminator.
只是未加入志愿者车队，雷鹏的爱车“大白”没机会出风头了。
Only did not join the volunteer team, Lei Peng's love car "big white" did not have the opportunity to show off.
其实相比车，雷鹏更在意坐在驾驶室里那些赤诚的司机。
In fact, Lei Peng than the car, Lei Peng more concerned about the driver sitting in the cab.
一位司机从江苏徐州出发，开了12小时的车，送来几百箱防疫物资，自己却只戴着一层薄薄的一次性口罩。
A driver from Xuzhou, Jiangsu, drove 12 hours and delivered hundreds of cases of vaccination supplies, wearing only a thin layer of disposable masks.
还有位热心的武汉市民，看到志愿者们裸手搬运物资，送来了一千双劳保手套、两箱护手霜。
There was also a warm-hearted Wuhan city, saw volunteers carrying supplies naked, sent a thousand pairs of labor protection gloves, two boxes of hand cream.
仅一天，物资登记薄写了满满数页，大大小小的纸箱从各地运来，最远的来自大阪、京都、神户，甚至有人远隔千里寄来一箱方便面。
One day, the materials register was full of pages, large and small cartons from all over Osaka, Kyoto, Kobe, and even someone sent a box of instant noodles thousands of miles away.
雷鹏觉得这绝非戏谑，而是发自内心对同胞的关心。
Lei Peng felt that this is not a joke, but from the heart of concern for compatriots.
图 | 捐助物资从全国各地涌来但并非所有志愿者都能收获理解。
Not all volunteers were able to appreciate the influx of donations from all parts of the country.
帮忙雷鹏联系住处的女孩萧萧，出门时看到楼道里一个女人没戴口罩，上前劝说了几句。
Lei Peng to help contact the girl Xiao Xiao, out of the corridor to see a woman not wearing a mask, came forward to persuade a few words.
没想到，那女人正处于产后抑郁，趁萧萧不备，突然伸手袭击，把萧萧的脖子打伤了。
Unexpectedly, that woman is in the postpartum depression, while Xiao Xiao unprepared, suddenly reach out to attack, the neck wound Xiao Xiao.
萧萧是家中独女，因先天性血管狭窄被急救过两次，母亲一直不同意她来当志愿者。
Xiao Xiao is the only daughter in the family, because of congenital stenosis has been first aid twice, mother has not agreed to her to volunteer.
得知女儿受伤，母亲一下子急了，撂下狠话，若萧萧再不回家，就与她断绝母子关系。
Knowing that her daughter was injured, her mother suddenly anxious, put down cruel words, if Xiao Xiao never go home again, she severed mother-child relationship.
次日，萧萧带着脖子上的伤，照常来值班，就像什么也没发生。
The next day Xiao Xiao came on duty with a wound in his neck as usual, as if nothing had happened.
符合医用条件的N95口罩仅占物资的5%，各个医院想尽办法，争取拉回更多物资。
Only 5 per cent of N95 masks are medically fit, and hospitals are doing everything in their power to get more supplies back.
但受捐要造册，分发要登记，领取要签收，每件物资都要经过负责分发的主任确认。
However, the recipient must be inventoried, distributed, signed, and each item must be confirmed by the Director in charge of distribution.
程序繁复，按需分配是个繁难的活，前来领取物资的人员感到不满，频生口角。
The procedure is complicated, according to the need to distribute is a difficult work, the personnel who came to receive the goods feel dissatisfied, frequent squabbles.
接连几天，不断有人在网上怒斥红十字办事不妥，志愿者们也顺带挨了骂。
For days, people continued to yell at the Red Cross for not doing the right thing, and volunteers were also scolded.
一位志愿者差点因此失去爱情。
One volunteer almost lost his love.
女友觉得他在的组织不光彩，连发数条微信，叫他回家。
His girlfriend felt that his organization was disgraceful, and sent several letters to him to go home.
这个小伙子伤心了好几天，把聊天截图发到志愿者群，向群里的伙伴寻求安慰。
After several days of heartbreak, the young man sent a video of the chat to a group of volunteers to seek consolation from the group.
他家在河北承德，跨越1400公里来武汉，除了这，没找到其他能开通行证的志愿者组织。
His family in Chengde, Hebei, over 1,400 kilometers to Wuhan, in addition to this, can not find other organizations that can issue permits for volunteers.
舆情矛头所指之处确实有不尽如人意的地方，雷鹏心里清楚，但此时，疫情攥紧人心，从走进疫区的那刻，他就已不想再追究困局是如何造成的，只想和被病毒击中的武汉市民同仇敌忾，尽量抵御疫情的扩散，绝不能与邻为壑。
Leipeng is well aware that there are areas where public sentiment is unsatisfactory, but at this time, the epidemic grips the hearts and minds of the people, from the moment he walked into the epidemic area, he no longer want to investigate the cause of the plight, just hit Wuhan city residents, as far as possible to resist the spread of the epidemic, beggar-thy-neighbour.
闲时，小伙子跟雷鹏闷闷不乐地说，自己来这，就是为了给武汉人民搬货，什么都不想，就想做一个没有感情的搬运工具。
In their spare time, the young man and Lei Peng said sullenly that they came here to bring goods to the people of Wuhan, what do not want, just want to be a moving tool without feelings.
随着组织的运维模式渐入正轨，临时仓库即将被取消，物资悉数搬进总仓库。
The temporary warehouse will be cancelled and all supplies will be moved to the main warehouse as the organization's operational model evolves.
志愿者们重新分了班次，每班在岗人数少了大半。
The volunteers divided the shift again, reducing the number of people in each shift by more than half.
夜里23点半，雷鹏同值班的几名志愿者将最后一批零散物资搬上货车，临时摆放物资的大厅彻底空了。
At 23: 30 at night, several volunteers with Meipeng on duty loaded the last batch of scattered goods into the lorry, and the hall where the temporary goods were stored was completely empty.
雷鹏有些失落，货搬空了，意味着自己就快没有用武之地，这个时候，再想回河北也不太现实。
Leipeng some loss, cargo empty, meaning that they soon have no place to use, this time, it is not realistic to think back to Hebei.
他趴到阳台，一根接一根地抽闷烟。
He leaned over the balcony, smoking one cigarette after another.
凌晨1点，又有悲伤的消息传来，志愿者小胖的爷爷确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎，因医院缺床位，无法收治，只能在家隔离观察。
At 1: 00 a.m., sad news came, volunteers Xiao Pang's grandfather confirmed the new coronavirus pneumonia, because the hospital bed shortage, can not be treated, can only be isolated at home observation.
小胖是物资组年纪最小的志愿者，刚满19岁，作为爷爷的密切接触者，他也必须在家隔离。
Xiao Pang, the youngest volunteer in the supplies group, had just turned 19 and had to be isolated at home as a close contact with his grandfather.
次日，雷鹏发现志愿者办公处附近的街上，居然有家面馆开张了。
The next day, Lei Peng found the street near the volunteer office, unexpectedly a noodle shop opened.
老板说，自己也是没法子，不营业就没得钱赚，房租要照付，年前囤的食材也要消化。
Boss says, oneself also have no way, do not open business do not get money to earn, rent to pay, the year before the hoard to digest the ingredients.
但开张吧，家人又埋怨自己铤而走险，一天打好几通电话。
But to open it, the family complained of desperation and made several phone calls a day.
营业，不营业，两种选择都是为了保命。
Business, not business, both options are for life.
想到这一点，雷鹏感到一种比苦难还深层的悲凉。
Thinking of this, Lei Peng felt a more profound sadness than suffering.
后来几天，这家面馆成了他最常光顾的地方。
Over the next few days, the noodle shop became his favorite place to visit.
图 | 穿着防护服的医护人员有天去送货，雷鹏连续两次经过长江二桥，都看见一位中年男子，站在距栏杆不到50公分处，神情恍惚地比划着什么。
When medical personnel in protective clothing went to deliver goods one day, Pepg Lei saw a middle-aged man standing less than 50 cm from the railings, vaguely conscious, as he passed the Yangtze Er Bridge twice in a row.
男子对面围着几名警察，正紧张地同他对峙着。
The man opposite a few policemen was facing him nervously.
当时天气阴冷，微有冷风，雷鹏看得心惊肉跳，生怕男子因动作幅度过大落入危险。
At that time, the weather was cold, slightly cold, Lei Peng watched in horror, afraid of men due to the action range into danger.
同行的志愿者说，这可能又是个崩溃的人。
Volunteers in the same line said it could be a broken person again.
工作清闲后，雷鹏总觉得心里不安。
After the work is free, Lei Peng always feels uneasy.
他认为自己白白住着免费公寓，每天领盒饭，是在占用组织的资源。
He believed that he was living in a free apartment and receiving a box of rice every day, taking up the organization's resources.
他主动向主任提出：“不行的话，要不我就找找别的地儿吧？”主任安慰他别急，疫情尚处爬坡期，以后有的是活要安排。
He offered to ask the director: "No way, or I will find another place?" The director consoled him, the epidemic is still climbing, there are some work to be arranged.
次日，主任带雷鹏和小盖开车去了趟嘉鱼县。
The next day, the director took Lei Peng and Xiao Gui to drive to Jiayu County.
唐山捐赠了一罐车酒精，化工仓库没有分装能力，他们紧急联络到嘉鱼县一家可以分装的工厂。
Tangshan donated a can of alcohol, chemical warehouses do not have the capacity to separate, they emergency contact Jiayu County a factory can be packed.
特殊时期，高速路线导航失灵，车子在省道上胡开了大半天。
Special times, the high-speed route navigation failed, the car in the provincial road opened up for most of the day.
图 | 嘉鱼县的高速路口已被封禁这天武汉下了雨，雷鹏全速开车，卷起一片泥汤。
The expressway at Jiayu County has been blocked from rain that day. Leipeng drove at full speed, rolling up a piece of mud soup.
途中，又遇到大量土堆和隔离墩，车和人都困在了雨里。
On the way, encountered a large number of earth mounds and isolation piers, cars and people are trapped in the rain.
雷鹏故意站在车外，任雨水打湿外套，期望将这种感觉记得更深、更久一些。
Lei Peng deliberately stood outside the car, let the rain wet coat, hoping to remember this feeling deeper, longer.
他想起1997年7月1日，24岁的自己在连队哨位上站岗，国歌奏响，心底涌起的自豪感和当下很类似。
He remembered that on 1 July 1997, at the age of 24, he was on guard at the company post, playing the national anthem and feeling a sense of pride similar to the present.
为限制百姓出行，嘉鱼县将多处路口的红绿灯都设成了红灯。
To limit people's travel, Jiayu County will be a number of intersection traffic lights have been set a red light.
闯一个红灯要扣6分，为顺利运取物资，雷鹏也没数自己闯了多少个。
To run a red light to buckle 6 points, in order to smoothly transport material, Lei Peng did not count their own number.
20吨酒精，对此时的武汉如降甘露，雷鹏想，这分扣得很值当。
20 tons of alcohol, on this time Wuhan such as health manna, Lei Peng thought, this deduction is worth it.
有几个昼夜，雷鹏是有些忧心的。
For several days and nights, Leipeng is a little worried.
新闻里说，新型肺炎的致死率不高，但他身边不断有志愿者的家属、朋友被感染，令他深感无助。
The news said the death rate from the new pneumonia was low, but he felt helpless as family and friends continued to infect him.
有的刚刚确诊两天，还未来得及接受治疗，便不幸去世了。
Some had just been diagnosed for two days and had not had time to receive treatment before they died.
在家隔离后，小胖开始每天与谣言作斗争，每看到一条有关疫情的新消息，就发到志愿者群，问：“到底是真的假的？”爷爷确诊后没多久，小胖的奶奶、姑姑也先后被确诊，家人分别被安置到不同的地方进行隔离。
After being isolated at home, Xiao Pang began to fight rumors every day, and whenever he saw new information about the outbreak, he sent them to the volunteer group and asked, "Is it true or not?" Shortly after Grandpa's diagnosis, Xiao Pang's grandmother and aunt were diagnosed and their families were placed in separate places.
小胖心情颓丧，觉得是自己没有做好消毒工作，将病毒带给了家人，甚至有了轻生的念头。
Xiao Pang mood decadent, feel that he did not do a good job of disinfection, to bring the virus to the family, even have the idea of a light life.
群内的老哥老姐纷纷出来劝解，只要手上没活，就不间断地给小胖发些积极的消息，将群内氛围调动得很轻松。
The elder brother elder sister in the group came out to persuade, as long as the hands do not live, continuously to Xiao Pang some positive news, will mobilize the atmosphere within the group very relaxed.
物资组组长承诺，疫情结束后，要请大家喝酒、撸串，再去长江大桥走一走。
The leader of the Materials Team promised to invite everyone to drink, roll up and go for a walk on the Yangtze River Bridge after the outbreak.
2月4日下午，雷鹏和几位志愿者驱车前往武汉客厅，帮忙搭建“方舱医院”。
Feb. 4 afternoon, Lei Peng and a few volunteers drove to Wuhan living room to help build the "square cabin hospital."
抵达时，门口停着几辆巨型货车，走进武汉客厅C馆，他一眼就看出，自己要拼装的床架、床板，都是军队仓库直接拉来的高低床，数了数，大概能安置4、500例病人。
On arrival, a few huge trucks stopped at the door, into Wuhan living room C Pavilion, he saw at a glance that his own to assemble the bed frame, bed board, are directly from the military warehouse, count, can probably accommodate 4, 500 patients.
第二天，雷鹏又跑到高速路口，接应工信部派给火神山医院的救护车。
The next day, Lei Peng ran to a high-speed intersection, to answer the Ministry of Industry and Communications to the fire god mountain hospital ambulance.
警戒线在距火神山工地很远的地方就拉起来了，工作人员用车在工地外列队，形成几公里的车龙。
The cordon was hoisted far from the Flaming Mountain site, and the staff lined up outside the site in cars, forming several kilometers of dragons.
无法抵近神秘的火神山，雷鹏便使用航拍器，给自己和车子在工地外围远远地合了个影。
Unable to close to the mysterious mountain of Fire God, Lei Peng used the air racer, for himself and the car in the construction site at a distance of the shadow.
图|雷鹏在火神山医院外围因火神山、雷神山和方舱医院的搭建，物资组重新忙碌起来，不断有新的志愿者加入。
Renroc is back at work at the outskirts of the Mount Fire Hospital, thanks to the construction of Mount Fire, Mount Lui and the Fangkang Hospital. New volunteers are constantly joining the group.
其中一位新朋友是个天津老哥，为顺利抵达武汉，他先是坐火车到湖南岳阳临湘，在临湘买了辆自行车，整整骑行了两天。
One of the new friends is a Tianjin elder brother, in order to arrive in Wuhan smoothly, he first took the train to Hunan, the southern mountain of Hunan, bought a bicycle in Linxiang, and rode a full two days.
老哥的故事精彩得像公路片，让雷鹏坚定了守在武汉的信念，越是身处危城，越要提高生命活力，好能迎接疫情过后簇新闪亮的武汉。
Brother's story is exciting like a road film, so that Lei Peng firmly stood by Wuhan's faith, the more in danger, the more to improve the vitality of life, so that can meet the epidemic after the sparkling Wuhan.
元宵夜里，雷鹏开车同萧萧、小盖去了黄鹤楼。
On the night of Yuanxiao, Lei Peng drove with Xiao Xiao, Xiaoguai went to Yellow Crane Tower.
某年春节，热爱摄影的他特意来拍黄鹤楼，那时视线可及处，游客都排着长队。
One Spring Festival, he loved photography to shoot the Yellow Crane Tower, when the line of sight, tourists are lined up.
这晚，黄鹤楼花灯如昼，但无论从哪个角度拍，画面里都没有人影。
This night, the Yellow Crane Tower lantern as day, but no matter from which angle shot, the screen no one is seen.
雷鹏向来讨厌景区人多，现在却特别怀念挤在人堆里拍照的感觉。
Lei Peng has always hated scenic spots, but now especially miss the feeling of crowding in the crowd to take photos.
图 | 雷鹏镜头下的武汉夜景雷鹏问萧萧，疫情结束后最想做什么。
Leipeng Leipeng lens under the Wuhan night scene asked Xiao Xiao, the epidemic situation after the most want to do.
萧萧哽咽着，说想在自家小区里走一圈，她已经很久没见到邻居了。
Xiao Xiao choked, said that she would like to walk around in their own community, she has not seen the neighbors for a long time.
雷鹏酸了酸鼻子。
Leipeng sour nose.
这个瘦弱的小姑娘总喜欢把责任扛在自己身上。
The thin little girl always likes to carry the responsibility on herself.
上午，他和萧萧、小盖一起去武汉肺科医院送14支免疫球蛋白，萧萧翻箱倒柜地找出三副护目镜，叮嘱俩个爷们做好防护，到了医院门口，却不准他们下车，执意自己去送药。
In the morning, he and Xiao Xiao, Xiaoguai together to Wuhan lung hospital to send 14 immunoglobulin, Xiao Xiao rummage locker found three pairs of goggles, told the two men to make a good protection, but they were not allowed to get out of the hospital, insisted on their own to send medicine.
隔着车窗，雷鹏瞧见医护人员远远地招手，示意萧萧把药放在地上，自己再过去拿，临告别，又突然双手合十，颔首致谢。
Through the window, Lei Peng saw the paramedics waving from afar, motioning Xiao Xiao to put the medicine on the ground.
这天，武汉的天气由阴转晴。
On that day, the weather in Wuhan turned sunny from yin.
早上起床的时候，雷鹏看到，明媚艳阳下，楼下的老人正在自家阳台上晾晒花被子，没有戴口罩。
When he got up in the morning, Lei Peng saw the sun shining brightly. The old man downstairs was drying flowers and quilts on his balcony without wearing a mask.
雷鹏想，等疫情过去，他要和大家一起摘下口罩，充分品尝新鲜空气的滋味。
Lei Peng thinks, wait for epidemic situation to pass, he wants to take off mask together with everybody, savor fresh air adequately.
*文中图片均为雷鹏提供撰文| 刘妍- END-疫情紧急，举国齐动。
* Pictured here are all of Lei Peng's articles and articles written by Liu Yanyan-END - an emergency.
真故会在“一起抗疫”专栏里，记录下不同人在这段特殊时期的努力。
It is true that in the "An Anti-epidemic" column, the efforts of different people in this particular period of time are recorded.
每一丝力量，都光芒万丈。
Every breath of power is radiant.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情中，驰援武汉的私家车主。
During the epidemic, private car owners in Wuhan.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情中，驰援武汉的私家车主";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "瘟疫中，一个普通人的作为。
var msg _ desc = & quot; an ordinary man's act in the plague.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
