非常时期的武汉日常。
Wuhan in times of emergency.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
2月11日，一名患者从武汉方舱医院出院。
On 11 February, a patient was discharged from Wuhan Fangzhou Hospital.
中青报·中青网见习记者鲁冲/摄本文约8842字预计阅读时间23分钟采访 | 王梦影 杨 杰 魏 晞 秦珍子 马宇平主笔 |张 国此时此刻，武汉是全球大都市中引人瞩目同时异常安静的一个。
About 8842 words Estimated reading time Twenty-three minutes to read Wang Mengying Yang Chen Xi Qin Zhen and Ma Yuping at this time in China Wuhan is one of the world's most visible and quiet metropolises.
天色刚暗，走在马路上就能听到自己脚步的回声。
It was so dark that I could hear the echoes of my own footsteps as I walked along the road.
为了控制新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情，当地1月23日采取了前所未有的“封城”措施，市长称仍有900多万人生活在这里。
The mayor said more than nine million people still live in an unprecedented "blockade" of the city on January 23 to control pneumonia, which infected the coronavirus.
但空旷的街道上最常见的只有外卖骑手和环卫工，很多时候，骑手胡宾穿梭在钢筋水泥森林中会产生错觉，以为这座城市只剩下自己一个人了。
But only takeaway riders and sanitation workers are the most common on open streets, and many times rider Hubin gets the illusion that he is the only person left in the city.
一位每天扫街的环卫工则迎来了他职业生涯里的小小奇观：街道上如今连一个烟头都难以见到。
A janitor who sweeps the streets every day has a career marvel: it's hard to see a cigarette end on the street today.
现在，监狱称得上是这个城市里的安全堡垒。
Now, the prison is a safe fortress in the city.
随着疫情升级，监狱升级了封闭管理举措，宣布谢绝家属探视。
As the outbreak escalated, the prison upgraded its closure initiative and announced that family visits would be denied.
这是明智之举，隔绝与外界接触的机会就是阻隔病毒。
This is a smart move. Isolating contact with the outside world is blocking the virus.
自1月29日起，为了减少人员聚集，连法院的诉讼都暂停了。
Since 29 January, even court proceedings have been suspended in order to reduce the concentration of personnel.
人类内部那些无休止的争执、敌视，暂时在共同的敌人面前搁置了起来。
The endless internal quarrels and animosities of men were for the time being put on hold in the face of a common enemy.
胡宾喜欢骑着电瓶车在武汉的大街小巷里穿行，他习惯了每天无数次与行人擦身而过，在堵车的街道上、在素以“会飞”著称的武汉巴士之间寻找勉强通过的缝隙。
Hu Bin likes to ride in Wuhan's streets and lanes on electric vehicles, he used to brush past pedestrians countless times a day, in traffic jams, between the known "flying" Wuhan buses to find a way through the gap.
他会从满是市井气的“过早”小店买回豆皮和热干面，穿过写字楼的自动门，送到装修考究的大厅。
He would buy pea skins and hot-dry noodles from a well-stocked "premature" shop, walk through the automatic doors of office buildings and take them to well-decorated halls.
作为一个52岁的“老武汉”，他说这是他熟悉的武汉的样子——热闹、“发展快”，有时又有些拥挤。
As a 52-year-old "old Wuhan," he said, this is the way he is familiar with Wuhan - busy, "growing fast" and sometimes crowded.
“这些人都哪去了？他们怎么生活？”他忍不住去想。
"Where are all these people? How do they live?" he thought.
繁忙的火车照旧穿过这个位于中国版图心脏部位的九省通衢之地。
Busy trains continue to traverse the thoroughfare of nine provinces in the heart of China's map.
旅客们透过玻璃窗，见到的是一个从未见过的武汉：平日车流不息的高架路上，会突然出现行人和骑行者；一个天真的小男孩拿着玩具枪，追着前面正在快步疾行的妈妈开枪，“枪声”在街上回荡。
Passengers looked through the window and saw an unseen Wuhan: pedestrians and riders suddenly appeared on the usually busy viaduct; an innocent boy with a toy gun chased after his mother, who was hurtling ahead, and "gunfire" reverberated through the streets.
他是整条街上最无所畏惧的人。
He was the most fearless man on the whole street.
1这个季节，穿城而过的长江清晨会笼起薄雾，轮船的汽笛声比以往更加清晰。
This season, the Yangtze River across the city will be covered in mist in the early morning, ship whistle sounds clearer than ever before.
入夜，江边的景观灯光准时亮起，不同的是，许多摩天大楼墙体广告都换成了闪光的“武汉加油”。
At night, the river's landscape lights on punctually, the difference is that many skyscraper wall advertising has been replaced by flash "Wuhan refueling."
武汉无疑正在经历建城以来一段艰辛的日子，但它在竭力维持运转。
Wuhan is undoubtedly going through a hard time since its founding, but it is struggling to keep running.
一觉醒来，居民们会发现楼下塞得满满当当的垃圾桶，依然会被清空。
When they wake up, residents will find their dustbins full downstairs still emptied.
洒水车每天都会响着熟悉的音乐驶过，最近水里掺入了消毒液。
Every day sprinklers go by with familiar music, and recently the water has been infused with disinfectant.
即使欠费，家里的自来水也不会中断，只是“氯味儿”比过去明显。
Even if the bill is in arrears, the tap water at home will not be cut off, except that the "chlorine smell" is more pronounced than in the past.
电力公司说，武汉超过50万户居民欠了电费，但不会停电，水务公司也承诺“欠费不停水”。
The power company says more than half a million households in Wuhan owe them electricity, but there will be no power cuts, and water companies have promised "non-stop payment."
收听率最高的几个电台循环播放着防疫需知和心理节目，温婉的女声告诉听众要“正视压力、正视恐慌”。
Some of the stations with the highest attendance broadcast cordon sanitaire and psychological programs, and the gentle female voice told listeners to "face the pressure and face the panic."
1月下旬至2月上旬是武汉一年里最冷的时节。
Late January to early February is the coldest time of year in Wuhan.
马路两侧的法国梧桐树满眼枯黄，黄叶缓缓落下但无人欣赏。
The French sycamore trees on both sides of the road were yellow-eyed, yellow leaves were falling slowly but no one appreciated them.
一位姓李的环卫工负责一段大约300米长的街道。
An sanitation worker named Li is in charge of a section of the street about 300 meters long.
他只需抖一下手腕，落叶就会被扫进簸箕里。
He only had to shake his wrist, and the leaves would be swept into a dustpan.
往常他会在手推车上挂一个编织袋，方便收集易拉罐、矿泉水瓶。
Usually he would hang a knitted bag on a wheelbarrow to collect cans and water bottles.
现在，街道上连烟头都难以见到，他把手推车放到住处，编织袋换成了喷壶——垃圾桶的消毒比过去更为紧迫了。
Now, with cigarette ends barely visible on the streets, he put his wheelbarrow in his apartment and replaced his knitting bag with a spray bottle - the disinfection of the garbage can was more urgent than ever.
老李负责的这段路本来被3个人“承包”，现在只剩下他一个人，为此他每天多拿30元补贴。
Lao Li was responsible for this section of the road was originally "contracted" by three people, now he is left alone, for which he received an additional 30 yuan daily subsidies.
疫情暴发前，武汉有数万名清洁工。
Before the outbreak, Wuhan had tens of thousands of cleaners.
很多人因为回家过年，结果被挡在城外。
Many people get stuck outside the city because they go home for the New Year.
这意味着留守的环卫工必须付出加倍努力。
This means that the remaining sanitation workers will have to redouble their efforts.
900万人以每天约8300吨的速度照常生产垃圾。
Nine million people produce waste at a rate of about 8,300 tons per day.
如果没人处理，不到一个月，这些垃圾就能堆成一栋160米高的大楼。
If left untreated, in less than a month, the rubbish can be heaped into a 160-metre-high building.
据武汉市城管委的说法，垃圾当中，居民日均丢弃的口罩有33万只。
According to Wuhan city management committee, the garbage, the average daily residents discarded 330,000 masks.
5600多个专用的垃圾箱被紧急配置在了居住区和超市，用来回收废弃口罩。
More than 5,600 dustbins have been emergency fitted in residential areas and supermarkets to recycle waste masks.
一支由500多名环卫工组成的队伍，专门负责这些垃圾箱的清运。
A team of more than 500 sanitation workers specializes in the removal of these bins.
1月29日，武汉市洪山区街头的环卫工人。
Sanitary workers on the streets of Hongshan District, Wuhan, January 29.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄这座城市有超过8万个垃圾桶（箱）、220多座垃圾收集转运站，以及1700多间公共厕所。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing News, a journalist, Li Zheng Zheng / Photo This city has more than 80,000 garbage cans (boxes), 220 refuse collection and transfer stations and more than 1,700 public toilets.
每天对这些地方消毒，需要消耗1.4万多升消毒液和1300多升洁厕灵。
Sterilization of these areas daily requires the consumption of more than 14,000 litres of disinfectant and more than 1,300 litres of toilet soap.
在新冠肺炎定点医院武汉市红十字会医院，15名环卫工人在一份“请战书”上按下红色手印，进入严格警戒的“红区”，一天处理近1000套废弃的隔离衣和防护服。
At the Wuhan Red Cross Hospital of the Xinguan Pneumonia Destination Hospital, 15 sanitation workers placed red fingerprints on an "invitation letter," entered a strictly guarded "red zone" and disposed of nearly 1,000 abandoned suits and suits a day.
每家定点医院都有“红区”。
Each designated hospital has a red zone.
从襄阳赶到武汉的湖北中油优艺环保公司（以下简称湖北“中油”）员工王宁，每天带领一支12人的运输队去运走医疗垃圾，包括沾染飞沫的防护服、残留余液的输液管，还有感染者留下的卫生纸卷和粘着血迹的病号服。
Wang Ning, an employee of Hubei Zhongyou Environmental Protection Company (Hubei Zhongyou) who arrived in Wuhan from Xiangyang, leads a convoy of 12 people a day to remove medical waste, including foam-contaminated suits, transfusions of residual fluid, toilet rolls left by infected people and blood-stained hospital uniforms.
在1月20日，国家卫生健康委高级别专家组组长钟南山首次对外宣布这种新型病毒可以“人传人”之前，医疗废物处理行业就进入了加班状态，因为医院接诊的肺炎病人明显增加了。
Before Zhong Nan-shan, the head of the high-level panel of experts at the National Health Council, announced on January 20 that the new virus could be passed from person to person, the healthcare waste industry was working overtime because of a marked increase in hospital admissions for pneumonia.
1月27日，湖北省生态环境厅在省内征集医疗废物运输车辆。
On January 27, the Hubei Ecological Environment Bureau collected medical waste transportation vehicles in the province.
总部位于襄阳的湖北中油响应号召，派出车队去了武汉。
Hubei Zhongyou, headquartered in Xiangyang, responded to the call and sent a convoy to Wuhan.
这样的支援此前罕有。
Such support had been rare before.
这家公司负责人尹忠武对记者解释，医疗废物处理不跨境是行业原则之一。
Yin Zhongwu, the company's director, explained to reporters that the non-cross-border treatment of medical waste is one of the industry's principles.
这支车队的目的地是锅顶山医废垃圾焚烧厂。
The convoy was destined for the Cauldron Dingshan incinerator.
“焚烧是我们行业医疗废物无害化处理的最主要手段之一。
"Incineration is one of the most important means of innocuous treatment of medical waste in our industry.
”尹忠武解释。
"explains Mr Yin.
在医院，等待运输的医疗废物放置在“医疗废物暂停间”，装在明黄色的垃圾袋里。
At the hospital, the medical waste awaiting transport is placed in a "clinical waste cubicle" in a bright yellow garbage bag.
根据《医疗废物管理条例》，医疗废物在这里停留的时间应不超过48小时。
According to the Clinical Waste Management Ordinance, clinical waste should remain here for no more than 48 hours.
这个标准早已不适用于如今的武汉，接诊忙碌一点的医院，暂停间不到半天即“爆仓”。
This standard already does not apply to today's Wuhan, to accept busy hospitals, short of half a day is "open warehouse."
车队只能“即满即送”，5辆车一天跑上数趟，最晚一班常至夜深才返回。
The convoys can only be "delivered on short notice," with five vehicles running several times a day, often returning late at night at the latest.
即使如此频繁发车，还是有计划外情况发生。
Even if you start so frequently, something unexpected happens.
防护服体积大、质量轻，车辆只能多跑几次。
The suits are bulky and light in weight, and vehicles can only run a few more times.
这种车辆是特制的，双门密封，隔音隔热，“要把细菌病毒封在里面”。
The vehicle is specially designed, double-door sealed, soundproof and insulated "to seal up the bacterial virus".
针头、手术刀另外装在利器盒内，按照行业要求，盒子必须足够坚固，从1.5米高处垂直掉落在水泥面上，不能摔破，不能被里面的利器刺穿。
Needles and scalpels are also packed in sharp cases, which, in accordance with industry requirements, must be strong enough to fall vertically from 1.5 metres above the concrete surface and must not be broken or pierced by the inside sharp object.
所有垃圾上车前，要被封印到周转箱内。
All rubbish must be sealed off into the revolving box before getting on board.
周转箱耐压，防渗透，定期消毒。
Turnbox pressure resistant, impermeable, regular disinfection.
箱体外有二维码，能实时追踪，防丢——“丢了一个就是大事”。
Two-dimensional code outside the box, real-time tracking, anti-loss - "lost is the big deal."
湖北中油此前拥有5000只周转箱，又陆续购入了2000只，还是满足不了暴增的运输需求。
Hubei CNOOC, which had 5,000 working tanks and bought 2,000 more in succession, was unable to meet surging transport demand.
尹忠武介绍，周转箱如今是行业内的当红物资，堪比普通居民抢购的口罩。
Yin Zhongwu said that the turnover box is now a popular material in the industry, similar to ordinary residents snapping up masks.
原价不超过80元一只的箱子可以加价到200元，购买“靠抢”，“市面上有多少就得买多少”。
The original price does not exceed 80 yuan a box can be added to 200 yuan, buy "rely on the gun," "how much has to buy on the market."
尹忠武入行10年，在他记忆里，这个行业因为2003年的非典型肺炎疫情大获发展，至今已非常成熟。
Ten years into his career, Yin remembers that the industry has matured due to the SARS epidemic in 2003.
他与医院长期处在合作对抗的关系之中。
He has a long history of cooperative confrontation with the hospital.
他会根据床位计算，帮助医院发现是否少收集了垃圾；也曾在收费时与医院反复博弈。
Depending on the number of beds available, he would help the hospital find out if it had collected less trash and would play games with the hospital over and over again.
新的疫情打破了惯性。
The new epidemic has shattered inertia.
熟悉的医院会在半夜打电话让他派车拉走实在放不下的垃圾。
The familiar hospital would call him in the middle of the night and ask him to send for a car to take away the rubbish.
他们和医院成了战友，每天一睁眼就要对抗新增病例及其产生的医疗垃圾。
They have become comrades in the hospital, battling new cases and the resulting medical waste every day as soon as they open their eyes.
对收费和成本的考量似乎成了“上辈子的事儿”。
Fees and costs seem to have become a "thing of the last generation."
没有人能确切知道，武汉市每天正产出多少医疗废物。
No one knows for sure how much medical waste Wuhan is producing every day.
生态环境部2019年的报告显示，这座横跨长江的大型城市前一年产生了1.61万吨医疗废物，平均每天44吨，位列全国城市第八位。
The 2019 report by the Ministry of Ecology and Environment said the city, which straddles the Yangtze River, produced 16,100 tons of medical waste a year ago, an average of 44 tons a day, making it the eighth largest city in the country.
但这是新型冠状病毒现身之前的规模。
But this is the scale of the new coronavirus before it was discovered.
2001年，同济大学污染控制与资源化研究国家重点实验室的一项研究说，医疗废物与床位人数、门诊人次正向相关，每张床位一天产生医疗废物约为0.5到1千克，门诊部每20到30人产生1千克医疗废物，越是发达地区综合医院产量越大。
In 2001, a study by the State Key Laboratory for Pollution Control and Resource Research at Tongji University said that medical waste was positively correlated with the number of beds and outpatient visits, generating about 0.5 to 1 kg of medical waste per day per bed, and 1 kg of medical waste per 20 to 30 people per day in outpatient clinics, with higher yields in general hospitals in more developed regions.
学术计算通常要考虑病床空置率，疫情中的武汉则一床难求。
Academic calculations usually take into account the vacancy rate of beds, the epidemic in Wuhan is difficult to find.
即使依据2001年的这项研究，以床位和门诊量估算，新冠肺炎每天给武汉增加了6吨到11吨医疗废物。
Even on the basis of the 2001 study, estimates of bed space and outpatient visits put Wuhan with an additional 6 to 11 tons of medical waste per day.
尹忠武对记者说，武汉目前每天需要面对大约70吨医疗废物——“这是我们业内的共识”。
Wuhan, he told reporters, now faces about 70 tons of medical waste a day - "a consensus in our industry."
未来这个数字“可能翻几番”。
In the future, the number "could quadruple."
他甚至希望将部分医疗废物运输至襄阳焚烧。
He even wants to transport some of his medical waste to Xiangyang for incineration.
对此他得到的回复是，两地相差300多公里，4小时车程，还是有风险。
In response, he was told that there was still a risk of a four-hour car ride more than 300 kilometres apart.
王宁的团队抵达武汉时，全队的口罩、防护服等防护物资只够用上3天。
When Wang Ning's team arrived in Wuhan, the team's face masks, protective clothing and other protective materials can only last three days.
后方负责物资协调采购的一名工作人员手机响个不停，让他最头疼的是在物资紧张的形势下跨省协调物资。
The mobile phone of a staff member in charge of the coordinated procurement of goods at home kept ringing, and his biggest headache was coordinating supplies across provinces in the face of material constraints.
到武汉后，王宁体会到了此前未经历过的公众支持。
After arriving in Wuhan, Wang Ning experienced public support that he had not experienced before.
他干这份工作常遭遇冷眼，“许多人觉得就是个收垃圾的嘛”。
He often meets with a cold shoulder in this job. "Many people think he's just a garbage collector."
在车队开往武汉的路上，过路司机向他们行礼致意，加油站工人给他们赠送了充电宝。
On the way to Wuhan, passing drivers saluted them, and gas station workers gave them rechargeable treasure.
元宵节这天，这支车队的最后一班车在夜里10点才返回酒店。
On Lantern Festival, the last bus of the convoy did not return to the hotel until 10 pm.
大家在武汉市的一家酒店里庆祝了节日。
The festival was celebrated at a hotel in Wuhan.
为了避免可能的聚集感染，他们只是在各自的房间里用电热水壶煮了点元宵。
To avoid possible conglomerative infections, they only cooked a bit of yuanxiao in their respective rooms in electric kettles.
2用此类因陋就简的方式，处于疫情中心的武汉人度过了农历新年，又度过了元宵节。
In this way, Wuhan people in the center of the outbreak spent the Lunar New Year and the Lantern Festival.
再讲究的人也须作出适当让步。
The most fastidious man must make appropriate concessions.
比如，宅在家里，日历一天天翻页，他们的头发也一天天变长。
At home, for example, calendars are turned over day by day, and their hair grows longer day by day.
根据武汉美容美发协会在2015年发布的数据，武汉的理发店数量居国内各城市之首。
Wuhan has the highest number of barber shops in the country, according to figures released in 2015 by the Wuhan Hairdressing Association.
但20多天来，理发师朱神望只为从外地赶到武汉支援的医生和护士们提供过服务。
But for more than 20 days, the barber, Zhu Shenwang, served only doctors and nurses who had come to Wuhan from other places to provide support.
2月5日，一家酒店老板辗转找到他，希望他能上门，给住在酒店的外省医务工作者剪发。
On 5 February, he was run over by a hotel owner who wanted him to come and cut his hair for the provincial health workers who lived in the hotel.
头发是容易沾染病毒的身体部位，医护人员必须剪短头发才能戴上严实的防护头套。
Hair is easy to be infected with the body parts of the virus, medical personnel must cut short hair in order to wear a strong head cover.
他带着自己的工具箱，里面有推子、剪刀和电吹风。
He carried his own kit, which contained pushers, scissors, and hair dryers.
推子刚碰到头皮，一位护士的眼泪就掉了下来，“年前刚花1000多（元）烫的”。
Just as the push hit his scalp, a nurse's tears fell down. "It cost just over 1000 yuan a year ago."
100多位医生和护士排着队，拿着号码，等待“削发”。
More than 100 doctors and nurses lined up with numbers and waited for their hair to be cut.
朱神望一天服务了七八十人，“破了纪录”。
Zhu Shenwang served seventy or eighty people in a day, "breaking the record."
从下午1点一直忙到24点，他累得第二天“下不了床”。
Busy from 1 p.m. to 24: 00 p.m., he was too tired to get out of bed the next day.
2月5日，武汉，理发师朱神望在为外地来的医务工作者理发。
On February 5, Wuhan, hairdresser Zhu Shenwang was cutting hair for medical workers from other places.
中青报·中青网记者 杨海摄他在武汉一家中高档美发店工作。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing net reporter Yang Haishe works in a high-end hairdressing shop in Wuhan.
春节前本是生意最好的几天，他记得1月19日那天，等候的客人坐满了店里的沙发。
Before the Spring Festival, which had been the best days of business, he remembered the waiting party filled the sofa on January 19th.
虽然几乎每个顾客的话题都离不开“那个病”，因为当时还没有公布会人传人，大家都“普遍乐观”。
Although almost every customer's topic is inseparable from the "disease," because the meeting has not been announced, everyone is "generally optimistic."
1月22日，这个理发店开始频繁接到取消预约的电话，街边的商铺急匆匆地关门上锁，店长也决定歇业，让员工“回家等通知”。
On January 22, the barber shop began to receive frequent cancellation calls. The shops along the street were quickly closed and locked.
朱神望宅在家里。
Zhu Shenwang is at home.
他们原计划正月初八开业，后来发现，计划过于乐观了。
They had planned to open on the eighth day of the first month, but later found the plan too optimistic.
他为顾客着急，“我们店的男顾客，一般2到3个星期就要剪一次头。
"He was worried about the customer." The male customer in our store usually needs a haircut in two or three weeks.
”前几天，朱神望收到了客户的一条信息：“等到我刘海长到下巴的时候，不知道能不能剪上头。
The other day, Zhu received a message from his client: "When I grow to my chin, I wonder if I can cut my head.
”“再见面时，我可能已经认不出你。
'Perhaps I couldn't recognize you when I saw you again.
”朱神望回复，附上了一个“笑脸”。
Zhu responded, enclosing a "smiling face."
3每天与武汉人见面最多的人，是骑手们。
The people who meet Wuhan people most every day are the riders.
他们身着不同颜色的外套，像是武汉的红细胞，把养分输送到这座城市的角落。
They wear different colored coats, such as Wuhan red blood cells, that carry nutrients to the corners of the city.
春节那天，为“饿了么”工作的胡宾接了个“跑腿单”，帮人去快递站取包裹，里面是一箱奶粉。
On Spring Festival Day, Hu Bin, who worked for "hungry," accepted an "errand ticket" to help someone pick up a parcel at a express delivery station, containing a crate of powdered milk.
客户是个刚生完孩子的母亲，“孩子马上就要断粮了”。
The client is a mother who has just given birth. "The baby is going to run out of food."
奶粉送到后，他们隔着口罩，互相拜年。
When the milk powder arrived, they visited each other through a mask.
胡宾平时戴4层口罩，每天接十三四单，大多是跑腿单，帮人去超市购物。
Hu Bin usually wear four layers of masks, 13 or 14 daily, mostly running errands, to help people go shopping in the supermarket.
他的23名队友，只剩4人留在武汉。
Of his 23 teammates, only four remain in Wuhan.
超市需要排队，有时一单要两个小时才能完成。
Supermarkets need queues, sometimes two hours at a time.
因为缺货，过去到一家超市就能完成的订单，要跑三四家才能配齐。
Because of the shortage of goods, the past to a supermarket can complete the order, to run three or four to complete.
有些骑手相互合作，有人负责采购，有人负责配送。
Some riders cooperate with each other. Some are responsible for procurement and others for distribution.
有的客户在订单上备注说，自己一直联系不上在武汉的朋友，胡宾不需要去取件，“直接去收件的地方帮我敲下门，我真的很担心他。
Some customers on the order note that they have been unable to contact friends in Wuhan, Hu Bin do not need to pick up the pieces, "directly to pick up the place to help me knock down the door, I really worried about him.
”胡宾接到过一个来自北京的订单，因为武汉封城，客户回不了武汉，帮老家两位出行不便的老人购物。
Hubin received an order from Beijing because Wuhan was closed and customers could not return to Wuhan to help two elderly people in their hometown who had difficulty travelling.
电话里，客户反复嘱咐“能买多少就买多少”。
On the phone, customers repeatedly asked "can buy as much as you can."
另外一次，他应一位女士的要求，帮同城的爸妈购买了燃气。
On another occasion, at the request of a lady, he bought gas for his parents in the city.
封城后，这家人难以碰面，而老人不懂网上缴费。
After the siege, the family had difficulty meeting, and the old man did not know how to pay online.
他经手的最“大”一单是1300多元，重量是200多斤。
The biggest single item he handled was more than 1,300 yuan and weighed more than 200 jin.
箱子里塞满了40个鸡蛋、20斤猪肉，还有米面、粮油、水果和几大箱矿泉水，三大袋蔬菜只能放到踏板上，“压得车子都走不动”。
The box was filled with 40 eggs, 20 jin of pork, rice noodles, oil, fruit and several cartons of mineral water, and three bags of vegetables could only be put on the pedals, "too heavy for the car."
为了保持平衡，他只能弯腰趴在电动车上前行。
To keep his balance, he had to stoop down on an electric car.
“本来不想接，但担心这家是不是已经没什么物资了，就接了。
"I didn't want to take it, but I was worried that I didn't have anything left in the house.
”他说。
'he said.
另一个令他印象深刻的需求是帮人遛狗。
Another thing that impressed him was walking the dog.
客户是一位孕妇。
The client is a pregnant woman.
她的丈夫是医生，在医院抢救病人。
Her husband is a doctor, rescuing patients in the hospital.
那是一只很大的金毛，女主人没有力气遛这么大的狗。
It was a big golden feather, and the hostess had no strength to walk such a big dog.
几乎每天，胡宾都要去汉口医院附近的一家饺子馆，取上几单外地客人点来的饺子，送给医生和护士们。
Almost every day, Hubin would go to a dumpling restaurant near Hankou Hospital, take a few dumplings from the outside world and give them to the doctors and nurses.
电话回过去，那些天南海北的口音总是在感谢医生护士，还强调过年吃饺子，象征着团圆。
Back in the past, those accents are always thanking the doctors and nurses, but also stressed that the New Year eating dumplings, a symbol of reunion.
4人们在用各种方式支持武汉人的胃，胡宾代人运送的那些蔬菜，有些也是来“增援”的。
Wuhan people are being supported in a variety of ways, the people of the Hubin people to transport those vegetables, some are also to "reinforce.
四川省汶川县三江镇龙竹村的12名村民，驾车36小时，将100吨新鲜蔬菜送到12年前救助他们的武钢总医院，6辆卡车的车头挂着同样的标语：“汶川感恩你，武汉要雄起。
Twelve villagers from Longzhu Village, Sanjiang Town, Wenchuan County, Sichuan Province, drove for 36 hours, delivering 100 tons of fresh vegetables to the WISCO General Hospital, where they were rescued 12 years ago.
”武汉绿蔬源蔬菜专业合作社理事长顾泽生，除夕以来，白天配送，晚上割菜，带着家人和员工连轴转。
Wuhan Green Vegetable Professional Co-operative Director General Gu Zesheng, since New Year's Eve, day distribution, night cutting vegetables, with family and staff rotation.
蔬菜送到小区，由物业分配至各家，上了年纪的人十分感动，“他们下不了楼，超市又定点定时，年纪大的抵抗力差，能够把菜送到他们门口，可以说是雪中送炭。
The elderly people were very moved. They could not get down the stairs. The supermarket was fixed at a fixed time. The old people had a poor resistance and could deliver the vegetables to their door.
”顾泽生说，他见到有人已经吃了三四天咸菜。
"Gu said he saw someone who had eaten pickles for three or four days.
疫情中，武汉大部分农贸市场休市，超市成为市民购买蔬菜的主要渠道。
During the epidemic, most farmers' markets in Wuhan were closed and supermarkets became the main channel for citizens to buy vegetables.
武汉80多家中百仓储连锁店，“承担了武汉市保供任务的一半以上”，中百仓储水果湖店门店经理王玲说，她每天都会接到询问几点开门、几点关门的电话。
Wuhan more than 80 Zhong100 stores chain, "bear more than half of Wuhan city guarantee task," said Wang Ling, store manager of Zhong100 Warehouse and Fruit Lake Store, she receives daily calls asking what time to open and when to close.
“居民面对未知，不恐慌是假的。
"It is not true that residents face the unknown without fear.
”武汉封城那日，王玲记得短短一小时内就涌来大量客流，超市闭店时间推迟了一个半小时。
Wuhan Fengcheng that day, Wang Ling remembered that a large number of passengers came in just an hour, the supermarket closed an hour and a half later.
白菜、南瓜、萝卜、红薯等便于储藏的蔬菜最为抢手。
Cabbage, pumpkin, radish, sweet potato and other easy to store vegetables are the most popular.
这些天，有人到店里买菜时穿着防护服。
Some people wear protective clothing when they go to the shop these days.
王玲所在的超市，没有“恭喜发财”之类背景音乐，很少有人在货架前聊天。
Wang Ling's supermarket, there is no "congratulation" such as background music, few people in front of the shelf chat.
“人人手里拿一个清单，按单子找货品，没有就找替代品，一买菜就是一车。
"Everyone has a list in their hands, they look for things by the list, they don't find substitutes, they just buy a cart.
”顾客行色匆匆，尽量减少逗留时间。
Customers rush to minimize the amount of time they stay.
山东寿光蔬菜调运武汉的日供应能力，已经从600吨上调到2000吨。
Shandong Shouguang vegetables dispatch Wuhan's daily supply capacity, has been increased from 600 tons to 2,000 tons.
一棵白菜从寿光农民的手里到武汉市民的手里总共需要3天。
It took three days for a cabbage to pass from Shouguang farmer's hand to Wuhan's.
今天从寿光发车，明天就到了武汉江夏物流总仓，经过卸货、分拣、再装车，后天超市开门，它就会到达一位市民手中。
Today from Shouguang start, tomorrow to Wuhan Jiangxia logistics warehouse, after unloading, sorting, reloading, the day after tomorrow supermarket opened, it will reach a citizen.
中百仓储生鲜事业部副总经理王玉璟分管物流，他介绍，如今的蔬菜货量是去年同期的3.5倍。
Wang Jing Jing, deputy general manager of the storage and fresh business department of Zhong100 Jing Xing logistics, said that today's vegetable shipments are 3.5 times the same period last year.
令他头疼的是“怎么让货运进来”，很多司机是外地人，封城之后，车辆和人员都无法保证。
What bothers him is "how to get the goods in," as many drivers are outsiders, with no guarantee of vehicles or people behind closed doors.
公司成立了突击队帮忙卸货、搬运，但远远不够。
The company set up a commando unit to help unload and carry, but not enough.
以前一辆车一天只送一次货到市区，现在一天要跑五六趟。
A car used to deliver goods to the city only once a day, but now it has to run five or six times a day.
目的地包括80多家中百仓储大卖场和400家小店，每天配送600吨蔬菜。
Destinations include more than 80 medium-sized warehouses and 400 small stores, delivering 600 tons of vegetables per day.
后来申请了军车配送，每天30个车次，缓解了部分压力。
Military vehicles were subsequently requested for distribution at 30 vehicles per day, relieving some of the pressure.
王玉璟已经20多天没有回家了，吃住都在物流总仓。
Wang Jing has not been home for more than 20 days, eating and living in the main warehouse logistics.
回去取换洗衣物，他也不与家人见面，把门口的衣服取走，把生活用品放下，转头就走。
He went back to get his laundry, he did not meet with his family, he took his clothes from the door, put his things down and walked away.
“怕呀。
"I'm afraid.
”外地司机来武汉送爱心菜，有的不敢下车，请求当地人赶快卸完货，马上走。
"Non-local drivers to Wuhan to send love dishes, some dare not get out of the car, ask the local people to quickly unload the goods, immediately left.
“不是给多少运价的事情。
"It's not a matter of giving rates.
”王玉璟不去看每天增长的确诊病例数字，在岗时没空看，忙了一天躺在床上也不想看，怕影响情绪。
Wang Jing does not see the daily increase in the number of confirmed cases, in the post no time to see, too busy lying in bed all day do not want to see, for fear of emotional impact.
这次，身边很多同事令他感动，一个同事，刚刚放假得知要封路，又迅速赶回武汉上班，家里孩子不满1岁。
This time, many colleagues around him moved him, a colleague, just learned to close the road, and quickly back to work in Wuhan, the children are less than one year old.
“他完全可以不来，或是假装没看到信息。
"He can either not come at all or pretend not to see the message.
”他说，“这才叫逆行。
"said he;" that is retrograde.
”王玲店内的300名员工，因为交通、家庭等原因，只能到岗80人。
The 300 employees in Wang Lingdian had to go to 80 for transport, family and other reasons.
公共交通停运，有人骑车2小时，有人走路2小时上班。
Public transportation is suspended, with people cycling for two hours and people walking two hours to work.
一个员工，上班前跟家人谈判了一个小时才得以出门。
An employee who had been negotiating with his family for an hour before going out.
周边小饭店都关门了，大家自己带饭或用方便面解决午饭。
All the small restaurants around were closed, and everyone brought their own meals or instant noodles for lunch.
“现在能出来的都是英雄啊。
"Now it's all heroes.
”王玲说，“熟识的老顾客也叮嘱我们保护好自己。
"said Wang Ling." Old customers who are familiar with us tell us to protect ourselves.
”门店经理需要处理投诉，她感到，“最近投诉少了，大家都能相互理解。
Shop managers need to deal with complaints, she feels. "There have been fewer complaints lately and everyone understands each other.
”而且顾客的恐惧感在减轻，“用武汉话说，比较平和”。
And the level of fear among customers is waning, "relatively peaceful, in Wuhan."
封城后的第一个14天过后，到了元宵节，买元宵的顾客多了起来。
After the first 14 days after the closure of the city, to the Lantern Festival, the Lantern Festival to buy more customers.
“虽然有疫情，但大家过节的愿望还是很强烈。
"Despite the epidemic, we have a strong desire to celebrate the holiday.
”5在这非常时期，武汉一家120急救站的担架工钱运法，比平时对世间冷暖有更多认识。
In this unusual period, Wuhan 120 first aid station stretcher money transport method, than usual on the world has more understanding of the warm and cold.
武汉封城之后，68岁的钱运法每天大约接送十八九人去医院，其中三四位是普通病人，其余都是发热患者。
Wuhan after the closure of the city, 68-year-old Qian transport about 18 people a day to the hospital, three or four of them ordinary patients, the rest are febrile patients.
有的时候，他们到了地点，病人已经“不行了”，只能再找殡仪馆派车。
Sometimes, they arrive the place, the patient already "can't", can only look for the undertaker's car again.
有的家属急得一见到他们就下跪，恳求尽快把人送到医院。
Some families were so anxious to see them that they knelt down and begged to be taken to the hospital as soon as possible.
但是医院没有床位时，他们又不得不把人再送回家。
But when the hospital did not have beds, they had to send people home again.
2月2日晚，一辆救护车在武汉空旷的街头行驶。
On the night of February 2, an ambulance drove through the empty streets of Wuhan.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄钱运法打这份工，是个体力活儿，月收入1950元。
Zhongqing Newspaper Zhongqing News, a journalist who was engaged in activities such as Li Zheng or taking money, is a manual labor.
疫情暴发后，有的同事请假走了没再回来。
After the outbreak, some colleagues took leave of absence and did not come back.
他没回湖北孝感农村老家，和多数同事一起留在了武汉。
He did not return to Hubei Xiaogan rural home, and most of his colleagues stayed in Wuhan.
他只读到小学三年级，对“新型冠状病毒”所知甚少。
He only reached the third grade of primary school and knew little about the "new coronavirus."
他说：“我们聊起这事，都知道这个病它传染……这事（抬担架）总要有人搞，我不干，别人也要干，总要有人干。
"When we talk about it, we all know it's contagious... It has to be done, I don't do it, somebody else does it, somebody does it," he said.
”他还说，那么多病人需要抢救，自己要是走了“那不像话”，“不想丢脸”。
He added that so many patients needed to be rescued and that he would not want to be humiliated if he went away.
这些天，他所在的急救站，收到外地好心人送来的不少面包和零食，让他更加觉得要坚持下去。
These days, his emergency station, received a lot of bread and snacks from people from other places, let him feel more persevering.
“我这么大年纪了，在非常时期为了国家也干不出临阵脱逃那事。
"I am so old that I can't run away from the war for the country in an emergency.
”他也经历过那样的情景：两个年过六旬的担架工抬着病人在狭窄的老式楼梯里下楼，感到吃力，想让患者的儿子帮一把手，儿子回答“这是你的事”。
He had experienced the same scene in which two stretchers past the age of sixty carried their patients downstairs on narrow, old-fashioned stairs, feeling tried to get the patient's son to lend them a hand, and the son replied, "It's your business.
穿着防护服抬担架，一趟下来，连毛衣都会被汗水湿透。
Wearing protective clothing stretcher, a trip down, even the sweater will be wet with sweat.
而为了节省防护服，钱运法和同事接送新冠肺炎确诊病人才会更换防护服，接送其他病人两位才会换一套。
To save money on protective clothing, patients diagnosed with Crowne Pneumonia will change their protective clothing by using the money transport method.
救护车开到小区时，钱运法有时会看到人们从窗户里探头或者从门缝里观察，看看是哪家人遇到了不幸。
When an ambulance drives into a community, the money transport method sometimes sees people poking their heads out of windows or looking through doors to see who is in trouble.
他知道，人们害怕、着急，希望坏的事情早点过去。
He knew that people were afraid and anxious, hoping that bad things would come to an end.
最多的一天，武汉市公安局武昌分局中南警务站接到3起有关家人死亡的警情。
The most day, Wuhan Public Security Bureau Wuchang Branch Central South Police Station received three cases of death of family members.
站长刘俊说，有的家里只有两个老人，一位去世了，另一位只能打“110”。
There are only two old people in the house, one died and the other could only play "110," Liu said.
警察需要联系社区开具死亡证明，联系殡仪馆来接走遗体。
The police needed to contact the community to issue a death certificate and contact the funeral home to collect the body.
“我从警30多年，从没这么频繁地见过这么多的生离死别。
"I've been a cop for more than 30 years and I've never seen so many partings so often.
”刘俊说，“对我冲击真的很大。
"It really hit me hard," Liu said.
我既为人父，又为人子。
I am a father and a son of man.
我的心情是撕裂的，一方面我要面对这种悲痛，一方面我又要拼命工作。
My heart is torn, on the one hand I have to face this grief, on the other hand I have to work hard.
”疫情暴发后，武汉近2万民警和3万多名辅警全员无休。
"Wuhan after the outbreak of nearly 20,000 civilian police and more than 30,000 auxiliary police staff.
中南警务站有49个人，平时甚至有夫妻闹离婚也打“110”，让警察过去“评评理”。
The South Central Police Station has 49 people, even in peacetime couples divorce also hit "110," let the police "judge."
对这些非警务工作，有时大家会抱怨。
Sometimes people complain about these non-police jobs.
刘俊说，现在几乎每起警情都与警务无关，但他们愿意出警。
'Almost every police incident now has nothing to do with policing, but they are willing to call the shots, 'he said.
“我也是人，看到报警人的无助、焦急，面对即将失去亲人时的痛苦，先不说职责，我不帮，自己心里就受不了。
"I am also a person, to see the police helplessness, anxiety, in the face of the impending loss of loved ones, do not say duties, I do not help, their hearts can not bear.
”他说。
'he said.
武汉市七医院就在中南警务站辖区之内。
Wuhan Seven Hospital is in the area of the South Central Police Station.
刘俊记得，病人蜂拥而至，到深夜，医院门口仍排着100多米长的队。
Liu remember, the patient flocks, late at night, the hospital gate is still lined up more than 100 meters long queue.
医生不停打电话求助，“他们连110都不打了，直接打我们的座机”。
Doctors keep calling for help. "They don't even call 110, just call our landline."
刘俊2014年曾在利比里亚执行联合国维和任务。
Liu Jun was on a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Liberia in 2014.
非洲暴发埃博拉病毒疫情后，他在那里接受过防疫训练。
He was trained in immunization following the Ebola outbreak in Africa.
因此，这次还没接到上级命令时，他就在网上买了很多口罩、护目镜和一次性手套放在警务站。
So he bought many face masks, goggles and disposable gloves on the Internet and left them at the police station before receiving orders from his superiors.
他说，他们往常遇到过拿刀拿枪的暴徒，有防弹衣、防刺服和完整的应对方案去应对。
He said they had encountered thugs with knives and guns, bullet-proof jackets, prickly suits and complete coping strategies.
但病毒是无孔不入的，对每个人的心理都是个考验。
But the virus is pervasive, to everyone's psychology is a test.
他们接到的报警里，有人住不进医院，也有人不愿意住院，害怕在医院交叉感染。
They have been told that some people do not live in hospitals, others do not want to be hospitalized, afraid of cross-infection in hospitals.
有人在医院门诊排队时间太长，要往医生脸上喷口水。
Someone queued up at the hospital clinic for too long to spit on the doctor's face.
警察们用记号笔在防护服写上“警察”两个大字，过去“首先要稳住场面”。
The police used markers to write "policeman" in protective clothing in big letters. In the past, "first hold the scene."
有一次，一个确诊患者威胁要扯下医生的口罩，警察们穿戴好防护服、护目镜、防爆头盔，拉下玻璃面罩，挡在患者和医生之间调解，直到那位激动的患者情绪慢慢平复。
On one occasion, a confirmed patient threatened to tear down the doctor's mask, and police officers dressed in protective clothing, goggles, crash helmets, pulled down glass masks and interposed between the patient and the doctor until the excited patient's mood slowly subsides.
“其实我特别能理解那些病人，他们无助啊，无助的人是很容易疯狂的。
"I particularly understand the patients, they are helpless, helpless people are very easy to go crazy.
”刘俊说，他接到过一次报警，是一位老人在社区吵闹，她丈夫在医院住院，她极其害怕，又担心负担不起医药费。
Liu said he had been called to the police by an elderly man who was making a scene in the community and her husband was hospitalized in a hospital.
她急得以扯下口罩威胁人。
She was anxious to tear down her mask and threaten.
“她一个80多岁的老人，拄着拐棍，我能怪她吗？”刘俊说，“后来我牵着她的手，我就感觉她握得非常紧，她需要依靠，需要安全感。
"Can I blame her for being an 80-something old man on a stick?" Liu said. "Then I took her by the hand and I felt that she was very tight.
”6此时的武汉，比往常需要更多的安全感，这体现在维持基本生活的方方面面。
Wuhan, at this time, needs more security than usual, which is reflected in the maintenance of all aspects of basic life.
往年，武汉市的商场超市等场所，春节时用电量会上涨，居民用电量较小。
In previous years, Wuhan shopping malls, supermarkets and other venues, the Spring Festival electricity consumption will rise, residents use less electricity.
今年因为疫情，居民用电量大了起来，但仍在正常范围之内。
This year, the electricity consumption of the population has increased due to the epidemic, but it is still within normal limits.
国家电网武汉供电公司变电运维室马影河运维班班长张鸿飞说，需要重点保障的是医院、隔离点、防疫物资生产企业、政府防疫单位等的供电。
State Grid Wuhan Power Supply Company substation and maintenance room Ma Ying He Wan squad leader Zhang Hongfei said that the main protection of hospitals, quarantine points, epidemic prevention enterprises, government epidemic prevention units and other power supply units.
从春节开始，国家电网湖北电力调控中心调度员鲁鸿毅和同事就住进了单位附近的酒店，开始了封闭生活。
From the Spring Festival, Hubei Power Control Center dispatcher Lu Hongyi and his colleagues live in the hotel near the unit, began a closed life.
他对记者描述调控岗位的特殊性，“就像开车不能没有司机一样”。
He described the particularity of regulating jobs to journalists, "like driving without a driver."
也是从春节开始，武汉的自来水厂工人黄凯接到电话要去加班。
Also from the Spring Festival, Wuhan Waterworks worker Huang Kai received a call to work overtime.
看到傍晚的武汉街头，路边渐次停满机动车，没有一个行人，“我才觉得有点怕，这种画面只在美剧里见过”。
Seeing the evening in Wuhan street, the roadside gradually filled with motor vehicles, no pedestrians, "I just feel a bit afraid, this kind of picture has only seen in the drama."
和他同班的调度员比他到得更早，背来了衣物和被褥。
The dispatcher in his class arrived earlier than he did, bringing in his clothes and bedding.
“那个伢是新婚的啊！”黄凯说，“他居然准备每天下班就睡厂里。
"That so much was newly married!" said Huang Kai. "He was going to sleep in the factory every day after work.
”武汉是一个吃长江水的城市。
Wuhan is a city that eats water from the Yangtze River.
滔滔不绝的长江水通过管道进入水厂的蓄水池，经过加氯、沉淀、过滤等工序，流入自来水管网。
Constant-flowing water from the Yangtze River flows into the reservoir in the water plant, where it flows into the network through chlorine, precipitation, filtration and other processes.
江上的取水船和陆地上的水厂，都需要时刻有人监管。
Water tankers on the river and water plants on land need constant supervision.
后来他们得知，市内交通可以申请通行证。
They were later informed that city traffic could apply for permits.
厂里征用了员工的私家车，和公车一起，接送员工上下班。
Private cars have been requisitioned, along with buses, to transport employees to and from work.
司机班师傅接触人员较多，为了保护家人，下班后不再回家。
Driver shift teachers contact more people, in order to protect their families, do not go home after work.
前两天，黄凯下了夜班，想到好几天没有母亲和孩子的消息，就骑着电瓶车回去探望。
Two days ago, Huang Kai off the night shift, think of a few days without the news of mother and children, rode back to visit.
站在楼下，他只是隔着窗户跟孩子说了几句话。
Standing downstairs, he just spoke to the child through the window.
母亲的手机坏了，他在网上购买，有的店主看地址是武汉，拒绝发货：“你不知道你们那边发生什么事了吗？”他很生气，却又遇到另一个贴心的店主，帮他找了中国邮政快递。
His mother's mobile phone broke down and he bought it online. Some shopkeepers, looking at the address of Wuhan, refused to ship the goods: "Don't you know what's going on there?" He was angry but met another dear shopkeeper and helped him find China Post Express.
这些天，在武汉街头，他遇到过坐地起价的出租车司机，也知道有一些人，开着私家车免费为人“摆渡”。
These days, in the streets of Wuhan, he met taxi drivers sitting on the ground starting price, also know that some people, driving a private car for free "ferry."
“别说我是一线员工，真正的一线是那些医生和护士。
"Don't say I'm on the front line. The real line is the doctors and nurses.
”黄凯说，“但我知道我的工作很重要，再怎么样，水不能停，我们还要生活，人命还要继续。
"But I know my job is very important," Huang said. "After all, water can't stop, we have to live and human life has to go on.
”在武汉匮乏的所有物资当中，氧气尤其是生死攸关的一种。
Of all the materials Wuhan lacks, oxygen is especially vital.
多家医院的消息说，收治了大量肺炎患者后，武汉现在是一个缺氧的地方——武汉市肺科医院院长彭鹏在一次新闻发布会上说，重症病人都需要吸氧，氧气供应成为一个突出的问题，他所在的医院，氧气用量达到日常用量峰值的10倍以上。
Wuhan is now a hypoxic place after treating a large number of patients with pneumonia, said Peng Peng, director of Wuhan Lung Hospital, a hospital where oxygen is used more than 10 times the daily peak, said at a news conference.
他说，任何一家医院在设计时都不可能按照目前这种极端情况来做供氧的设计。
He says no hospital is designed to be oxygen-powered in the extreme way it is today.
中青报·中青网记者见到的一位市民，和两个兄弟每天轮流背着80多岁的母亲去医院看病，直到母亲死于新冠肺炎，而兄弟三人成为疑似病例。
A citizen met by the Zhongqing News Network and two brothers took turns carrying their mothers in their 80s to the hospital every day until their mother died of pneumonia and the brothers became suspected cases.
家人给他从药店花4000元买了一台小型制氧机。
His family bought him a small oxygen machine for 4000 yuan from the drugstore.
无论是去隔离点还是去医院检查，这个53岁的男人都要紧紧提着他的制氧机，就像是在提着他的性命。
The 53-year-old man held on to his oxygen machine as if he were carrying his life, whether to a seclusion or a hospital check-up.
武汉这座城市见惯了长江昼夜不息的奔流。
Wuhan is used to the Yangtze River, which is used to day and night.
胡宾从小在武汉的长江边扔石子、爬围墙，年轻时陪着心爱的姑娘在长江大桥上散步。
Hu Bin threw stones and climbed walls along the Yangtze River in Wuhan as a child, and walked on the bridge with his beloved girl when he was young.
后来他有了自行车，高兴时能在城里蹬上一整天。
Then he had a bicycle and could pedal all day long in the city when he was happy.
他52岁，这个年龄、在这样的形势下还出来当骑手，连自己都承认“需要太多勇气”。
At the age of 52, coming out as a rider in a situation like this, he admits "it takes a lot of guts."
但他说，自己就喜欢在武汉的大街小巷逛，“怎么都逛不够”。
But he said he liked to wander the streets and lanes of Wuhan, "how come not enough."
网上还有人说，等武汉“病好了”，自己会来看著名的黄鹤楼。
Some people on the Internet said, such as Wuhan "recovered from illness," their own will come to see the famous Yellow Crane Tower.
谈到眼下这场疫情，胡宾说：“该过去的早晚会过去。
Turning to the current epidemic, Hubin said: "It is time for the past to pass
”中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
"China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
非常时期的武汉日常。
Wuhan in times of emergency.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "非常时期的武汉日常";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "“我们还要生活”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "We want to live" & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
