他把近8万人份的试剂盒带进湖北。
He took nearly 80,000 dosing kits into Hubei.
中国青年报。
China Youth Daily.
冰点周刊                      。
Freezing Point Weekly.
冰点周刊。
Freezing Point Weekly.
中国青年报旗下的深度报道品牌。
China Youth Daily's in-depth reporting brand.
我们相信，新闻不止一天的生命力。
We believe that news is more than a day alive.
。
.
湖北省人民医院PCR实验室。
PCR Lab of Hubei People's Hospital.
本文约4483字预计阅读时间12分钟作者 秦珍子编辑 从玉华邱辰的假期变成了一次征途。
About 4483 words in this article are expected to read for 12 minutes when the author Qin Jeong-tzu's vacation from Yuhua Qiu Chen turned into a journey.
最近1个月，他把近8万人份的试剂盒带进交通封锁的湖北，也带进一度封闭的市场。
In the past month, he has brought nearly 80,000 kits into the once-closed market in Hubei, where traffic is blocked.
春节前后，湖北省用于确诊新冠肺炎的核酸检测试剂盒遭遇短缺。
Around Spring Festival, there was a shortage of nucleic acid test kits for diagnosing new crown pneumonia in Hubei province.
在武汉，有些患者彻夜排队，等待这项检查。
In Wuhan, some patients line up all night to wait for the test.
在武汉以外的地方，大量基层医院既没有这种稀罕的物资，也不具备检测的设备和环境条件。
Outside Wuhan, a large number of basic hospitals have neither such rare materials nor the equipment and environmental conditions for testing.
邱辰是个销售人员，他在缺口里看到商机。
Qiu Chen is a salesperson. He sees business opportunities in the gap.
“封城”的范围不断扩大，他“进货”的地点不断变化，那些天，他拉试剂盒的小货车是“红线”边缘一个顽强的坐标。
The scope of the "blockade" was ever-expanding, his "stock-in" locations constantly changing, and the pickup truck he was pulling the kit was a dogged coordinate on the edge of the "red line."
“一开始就是想做生意的。
"I wanted to do business in the first place.
”邱辰说。
"said Qiu Chen.
要很多天以后他才会意识到，事情做着做着就变了。
It would take days for him to realize that things changed just by doing them.
1第一批货是凌晨两点到的，总共1000人份，装在3只填入冰块的泡沫箱中。
The first batch arrived at 2 a. m. for a total of 1000 people in 3 ice-filled foam containers.
以往，体积小、重量轻的核酸检测产品都走顺丰冷链。
In the past, small size, light weight of nucleic acid detection products are Shunfeng cold chain.
此时，外地进入武汉的物流已经停运。
At this point, the logistics into Wuhan has been stopped.
春运进入第八天，火车票、飞机票很难买到。
Chunyun into the eighth day, train tickets, air tickets are difficult to buy.
公司指派一位回乡途经武汉的员工，带着试剂盒登上火车。
The company assigned a homebound employee through Wuhan to board the train with a kit.
列车停在汉口火车站，邱辰在站台上，抱过夜色中的箱子。
The train stopped at Hankou railway station, Qiu Chen on the platform, holding the box in the night.
随后，他和同事将这批试剂盒带到经销商的冷库储存，时针指向凌晨4点半，几个小时后，六七百人份的试剂盒通过尚能运转的省内物流发往湖北省四五十家医院。
He and his colleagues then took the kits to the dealer's cold storage, where they pointed to 4.30 a.m. A few hours later, six or seven hundred kits were delivered to 40 or 50 hospitals in Hubei province through functioning provincial logistics.
这是2020年1月19日，网络中流传着“武汉封城”小道消息，邱辰说当时有预感，“要来真的了”。
This is January 19, 2020, the network spread "Wuhan closed city" gossip, Qiu Chen said there was a presentiment, "to come true.
1月21日，他收到20多家医院的反馈，对试剂盒的检测结果评价较好，需要订购。
On 21 January, he received feedback from more than 20 hospitals, which rated the results of the kit as good and required an order.
“我要把这市场做起来！”邱辰与公司沟通，紧急开动生产线。
"I will do this market!" Qiu Chen and the company to communicate, emergency start the production line.
1月22日凌晨两点，还是在汉口火车站，5000人份的试剂盒抵达。
At 2 a.m. on January 22, also at Hankou Railway Station, 5,000-person kit arrived.
这批试剂盒很快被发往黄冈、孝感、十堰、随州等地的十几家医院。
The kits were quickly sent to Huanggang, filial piety, Shiyan, Suizhou and other places of a dozen hospitals.
就在这一天，多家财经媒体报道，新冠肺炎诊断试剂国家卫健委仅指定3家企业生产，分别是：上海辉睿生物科技有限公司、上海捷诺生物科技有限公司、上海伯杰医疗科技有限公司，专供国家疾控、湖北省疾控和各省市疾控中心检测。
On the same day, financial and financial media reported that only three enterprises were designated by the State Sanitary Committee for the Diagnosis of New Crown Pneumonia: Shanghai Pfizer Biotech Co. Ltd., Shanghai Jie Biotech Co. Ltd., dedicated to the State CDC, Hubei Province CDC and provincial CDC testing.
事实上，中国科学界早在1月10日就对全世界公布了已破译的新冠病毒基因组，国内不少医药企业，开始动手研发检测产品，包括邱辰所在的公司。
Indeed, as early as January 10, the Chinese scientific community announced to the world the deciphered genome of the new crown virus, and many Chinese pharmaceutical companies, including Qiu Chen's company, began to develop and test products.
几天后，国内数十家企业都研发出相似的产品，没经过国家药品监督管理局审批，都没拿到“注册证”。
A few days later, dozens of domestic enterprises have developed similar products, without the approval of the State Drug Administration, did not get a "registration certificate."
“指定”则意味着一些企业的产品被允许“先应急”，国家卫健委统一调配这些检测试剂，供全国各级定点医院、疾控中心使用。
"Specification" means that some enterprises are allowed to "emergency response" products, the National Health Commission unified deployment of these detection reagents for use at all levels of designated hospitals, CDC.
这种流通方式，没有定价，也不需要“注册证”。
This form of circulation, there is no pricing, and "registration certificate" is not required.
早在五六天前，邱辰就听说过，自己的“东家”不在“指定名单”里。
As early as five or six days ago, Qiu Chen heard that his "employer" is not in the "designated list."
他开始有点惊讶，“指定的3家在核酸检测领域似乎不出名”，但他想，国家指定的企业，库存肯定充足，质量也没问题，医院出于对风险的考虑，一般也不会采用名单之外的企业产品。
He began to be a bit surprised that "the three designated companies do not seem to be well known in the field of nucleic acid testing," but he thought that state-designated companies would certainly have sufficient stocks and good quality, and hospitals would not normally use products from outside the list out of concern for risk.
“洗洗睡吧，没我们啥事了。
"Wash and sleep, we're all right.
”1月17日，他回到湖北随州老家，“过小年，放假！”没想到第二天接到部门经理通知：“回武汉，事情有转机。
On January 17, he returned to his hometown in Suizhou, Hubei Province, "Small Year, Vacation!" He did not expect to receive a notice from the department manager the next day: "Back to Wuhan, things changed.
”不少医院的试剂盒需求量忽然增大，“要货”。
"Many hospitals of the test kit demand suddenly increased," asked for goods. "
“那时不叫慌，叫发现了商机。
"It wasn't panic, it was business opportunity," he said.
” 邱辰说。
"said Qiu Chen.
2第三批试剂盒1万人份，1月22日下午从总公司发出。
2 The third batch of test kits, for 10,000 people, was sent from the home office on the afternoon of 22 January.
这天，火车不在武汉站停车了。
On that day, the train stopped at Wuhan station.
邱辰选中了麻城北站，这里位于黄冈地区，离武汉市区开车两小时可达，“考虑过以后就作为中转站”。
Qiu Chen selected the North Station, which is located in the Huanggang area, two hours away from Wuhan city can be reached, "think about later as a transit point."
晚上9点半，邱辰在麻城北火车站接到货，直接让师傅把冷藏货车开到了麻城人民医院，配送该院急需的500人份试剂盒。
At 9: 30 pm, Qiu Chen received the goods at the North Railway Station in Massachusetts. He asked the master to drive the refrigerated trucks directly to the People's Hospital of Massachusetts.
2月11日，邱辰受公司委托去黄冈和黄石疾控中心捐赠试剂盒，途中拍摄。
On February 11, Qiu Chen was commissioned by the company to Huanggang and Yellowstone CDC donation kit, on the way to shoot.
当时，黄冈疫情的严重性还没有完全显露出来，医院看起来人不多。
At the time, the severity of the Huanggang outbreak was not yet fully revealed, and the hospital looked small.
邱辰给检验科的一位主任打电话：“怕这些不够，要不要备一点？给你1000人份的，先不用结账，能用就用。
Qiu Chen to a director of the examination department called: "I am afraid these are not enough, want to prepare a little? Give you 1000 people, do not have to check out, can use.
”他记得，主任语气听起来很犹豫，“虽然认可产品质量，但估计是考虑到没有‘注册证’，也没有验证”，最终勉强同意，“先留下，别的医院需要就发过去。
"While acknowledging the quality of the product, it was estimated that there was no 'registration certificate' and no verification," he remembers, reluctantly agreeing, "Stay here, other hospitals need to hand them over.
”第二天早上，主任的电话就打来了：“小邱，货我们也要。
"The next morning the director phoned:" Xiaoqiu, we want the goods, too.
”1月23日，武汉封城了。
Wuhan closed the city on January 23.
就在这天早上，湖北黄石的大冶人民医院打来电话，“急缺试剂盒”。
Just this morning, Hubei Yellowstone Daye People's Hospital called, "urgently needed kit."
此时，经销商的3辆货车分别在武汉、襄阳、荆州送货。
At this point, dealers in three trucks in Wuhan, Xiangyang, Jingzhou delivery.
邱辰用上了自己的私家车。
Qiu Chen used her private car.
开车的是一位熟悉湖北省内各条公路干线、乡间小道的老师傅，两个人在武汉绕了四五个小时，没能出城。
The two men spent four or five hours in Wuhan, unable to get out of the city.
各条高速路出口封闭，有的省道被民众挖断，一些小路被障碍物阻挡。
Exit of each highway is closed, some dart is cut by populace, some path is blocked by obstacle.
最终，师傅换车，联系高速检查站说明情况，在下午五六点钟终于冲出武汉。
Eventually, Shifu changed trains, contacted the high-speed checkpoint to explain the situation, in the afternoon finally rushed out of Wuhan.
荆门、大冶、广水、荆州的20多家医院收到了试剂盒。
Jingmen, Daye, Guangshui, Jingzhou more than 20 hospitals received kits.
1月24日，据媒体报道，中国医药集团有限公司所属中国生物上海捷诺生物科技有限公司市场部相关负责人称，公司已供应武汉地区1000盒（5万人份）以上新型冠状病毒检测试剂盒，23日产能已进一步扩大，供以武汉为重点的全国各地区使用。
According to media reports on January 24, the company has supplied Wuhan with 1,000 boxes (50,000 people) of a new coronavirus test kit, which has been further expanded for use in all regions of the country, with Wuhan as the focus, according to media reports.
按照每盒试剂盒可以供50人份使用来计算，目前的试剂盒生产量已可供十数万人次检测使用。
According to the box can be used for 50 people, the current kit production can be used for hundreds of thousands of tests.
国药集团的武汉采购人员吴跃告诉中青报·中青网记者，集团会向他发布采购信息，他需要对接有产品资源的客户，联系厂家安排发货，完成“上下游对接”。
Wu Yue, a Wuhan purchasing staff member of China Pharmaceutical Group, told China Youth Daily that the Group will release purchasing information to him. He needs to contact customers with product resources, contact manufacturers to arrange delivery, and complete "upstream and downstream docking."
前期，采购来的物资会直接发到医院，后期，这些物资开始由各级疾控中心统一调配。
Prior to the purchase of materials will be sent directly to the hospital, later, these materials began to be coordinated by all levels of the CDC.
吴跃说自己印象很深，除夕、大年初一和初二，全是“电话不断”。
Wu Yue said he was very impressed, New Year's Eve, New Year's Day and the second day, is "telephone continuous."
大年初一早上8点，集团打电话来，说要采购两万人份核酸检测试剂盒。
New Year's Day morning at 8 a.m., the group called, said to buy 20, 000 nucleic acid test kits.
湖北省防疫一线的医疗机构缺乏物资的消息每天都登上媒体头条，社交网站可以看到大量患者得不到试剂盒无法确诊的“求助帖”。
The lack of supplies in front-line medical facilities in Hubei Province made headlines every day, and social networking sites saw large numbers of patients unable to access the "help desks" that test kits could not confirm.
吴跃回忆：“口罩、防护服、试剂盒都缺。
Wu Yue recalls: "Mask, protective clothing, kit are missing.
不光我在采购，别人也在采，但很多时候，客户也没货。
Not only am I buying, other people are picking, but a lot of times, customers are out of stock.
”31月25日，大年初一，下午5点多，邱辰接到通知，湖北省人民医院需要5000人份的试剂盒。
On July 25, the Chinese New Year's Day, Qiu Chen was notified that the Hubei Provincial People's Hospital needed a 5,000-person kit.
他立即去提货，6点多就送到医院。
He went to pick up the goods at once and took them to the hospital after six.
“质量是根本，我们还是蛮有信心，不然也不敢卖”。
"Quality is fundamental, we are still quite confident, or dare not sell."
检验科在一楼，他回忆，自己戴着口罩，穿着鞋套，把箱子从停车场搬进门诊大楼。
On the first floor, he recalls wearing a mask and shoelaces and moving boxes from the parking lot to the outpatient building.
没看到什么人，但心里特别紧张。
I didn't see anyone, but I was really nervous.
中青报·中青网记者查看了湖北省人民医院检验科医生给邱辰的“收据”，是用白纸手写的“白条”。
Zhongqing News Zhongqing net reporter checked the Hubei Provincial People's Hospital Examiner's "receipt" to Qiu Chen, is written in white paper "white stripe."
在那几天，这是一种普遍存在的情况。
In those days, this was a widespread situation.
邱辰坦言，“白条就白条，款收不回来，就当捐了”。
Qiu chen frankly said, "the white strip on the white strip, do not receive back, when the donation."
他操心着公司的产能，害怕后期省人民医院1万人份的试剂盒供不上货。
He worried about the company's production capacity, fearing that the 10,000-person kit at the provincial People's Hospital would not be available later.
一个好消息是，这一天，国家卫健委取消了核酸检测产品和检测试剂盒的推荐，这相当于放开了“试剂盒采购”的名单，连同邱辰公司在内的十几家企业，可以相对合规地将试剂盒送进医院。
The good news is that on this day, the NHSC cancelled its recommendations for nucleic acid test products and test kits, which amounts to freeing up the list of "kit purchases," and a dozen companies, including Qiu Chen, can deliver kits to hospitals with relative compliance.
国家药品监督管理局开辟了快速审批通道。
The State Administration of Pharmaceutical Supervision opened up fast examination and approval channels.
1月26日，4家企业已经通过审批，此后，名单不断扩大。
Since 26 January, when four companies had been approved, the list has continued to expand.
大年初二，邱辰发现，公司的生产线全面开动，全国各地的市场部门都在向总部要货。
New Year's Day, Qiu Chen found that the company's production line is fully operational, the market departments throughout the country are asking for goods from headquarters.
原定初三到武汉的2万人份的试剂盒，推迟至初四。
Originally scheduled to Wuhan on the third day of the test kit for 20,000 people, postponed to the fourth day.
邱辰对着手机地图研究了半天，又在微信群与同事讨论一番，最终选定了交货地点。
Qiu Chen to the mobile phone map for half a day, and in the micro-letter group to discuss with colleagues, the final choice of the delivery location.
1月28日晚，在湖北省与某省交界的高速公路收费站，一辆送货车与一辆接货车停在省界两端，“你不进来，我不出去”。
On the night of January 28, a delivery truck and a pick-up truck stopped at the end of the provincial border at a toll station on the border between Hubei Province and a province.
满载试剂盒的箱子被人力卸下，从收费站地下的人行通道穿过，进入湖北。
The boxes filled with test kits were manually unloaded and passed through the pedestrian passage beneath the toll booth into Hubei.
两天后，这些试剂盒全部发完。
Two days later, all the kits were finished.
在工作人员当时拍下的照片中，有人清点箱子，有人抱着箱子爬上长长的台阶，跨省“交货”。
Photographs taken by staff at the time showed people counting boxes, carrying them up long steps and "delivering" them across the province.
截至2020年2月10日，邱辰所在的企业已经发出新冠病毒核酸检测试剂盒接近70万人份，“但在1月25日之前，”他说，“我们在医院终端做的事情，严格说来是违规了。
As of February 10, 2020, Qiu Chen's company had sent out nearly 700,000 Nucleic acid test kits, "but by January 25," he said, "what we did at the hospital terminal was strictly illegal.
”他记得公司跟员工表示过，不要拘泥于规定，非常时期，不要有顾虑。
He remembers telling employees not to stick to the rules and not to be afraid in times of stress.
据邱辰介绍，事实上，要确诊，光有试剂盒不行，还得有PCR荧光分析仪，有满足“15189”标准的实验室条件，才能做检测，“前期开放了10家机构，一些医院没在名单里，偷偷踩着红线做”。
In fact, to diagnose the disease, a PCR fluorescence analyzer, laboratory conditions that meet the "15189" standard would be required to confirm the diagnosis, Qiu said. "Ten institutions were opened earlier and some hospitals were not listed and secretly stepped on red lines.
后来，湖北省多家医院紧急采购安装了设备，一些民间的有资质机构也被允许参与检测。
Later, several hospitals in Hubei Province were equipped for emergency procurement and some qualified non-governmental organizations were allowed to participate in the testing.
武汉市中心医院后湖院区，安装PCR仪器的工程师。
Wuhan central hospital back lake courtyard area, installation of PCR instrument engineers.
根据国家卫健委发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎实验室检测技术指南（第二版）》，核酸测定（实时荧光RT-PCR方法）有两个靶标，两个靶标均为阳性才能确诊。
According to the Technical Guidelines for Laboratory Detection of Coronavirus Infection in the Pneumonia Laboratory (2nd Edition) issued by the National Health Commission, nucleic acid determination (real-time fluorescent RT-PCR method) has two targets, both of which are positive.
新的问题也出现了，有专家质疑，涌入市场的大量试剂盒，质量参差不齐，一些患者要经历多次检测，才能确定结果。
New problems have also emerged, with experts questioning that the large number of kits flooding into the market are of varying quality and that some patients undergo multiple tests before the results can be determined.
4那本来是一个流行性感冒高发的秋冬季节。
It was supposed to be an autumn and winter season with a high incidence of influenza.
邱辰记得，武汉一家医院检测甲流和乙流时使用的“试剂盒”，数量多了起来。
Qiu Chen remembers, Wuhan a hospital detects A current and B current when using "test kit", the quantity rises up.
“销量这么大，今年的任务靠这个完成，能拿奖金！”2019年12月30日晚间，几张微信聊天截图、一组视频开始在网络中流传，内容大致为，武汉市出现了不明原因的肺炎感染病例。
On the night of December 30, 2019, several microphone chats and a group of videos began to circulate on the Internet, along the lines of unknown cases of pneumonia in Wuhan.
12月31日，湖北省官方消息称，在已发现27例病毒性肺炎病例中，7例病情危重，其余病例病情可控，有2例病情好转拟近期出院。
On December 31, officials in Hubei Province said that 7 of the 27 cases of viral pneumonia had been found to be serious, the rest were under control and two cases were expected to be released shortly.
大部分病例为武汉市江汉区华南海鲜城经营户。
Most of the cases are South China Hai Xiancheng households in Wuhan.
“听起来是控制住了，没那么严重，不存在商机。
"It sounds under control. It's not that serious. There's no business opportunity.
”邱辰说，他在2020年元旦后离开武汉到外省的公司总部开年会。
Qiu Chen said he left Wuhan after the New Year's Day in 2020 for the opening meeting of his provincial headquarters.
华中地区人口密度大，湿度也大，流感检测类产品销量“名列前茅”，邱辰完成了销售任务，同事们讨论着，针对呼吸道的产品在未来“很有市场”。
With high population density and humidity in central China, with sales of flu-detection products at the top of the list, Qiu Chen completed his sales task and colleagues discussed that products targeting the airways are "very popular" in the future.
2020年1月8日，当他开完年会从公司总部返回武汉时，“街上人很多”。
When he returned to Wuhan on January 8, 2020, after his annual meeting from the company's headquarters, "there were many people on the street."
1月15日，邱辰曾接到一个电话。
On January 15, Qiu Chen received a telephone call.
前同事提醒他，武汉协和医院有几名医生感染不明原因的肺炎，其中一个是重症，上了呼吸机，金银潭医院医生感染得更早。
He was reminded by his former colleagues that several doctors at Wuhan Concord Hospital had contracted pneumonia of unknown origin. One of them was critically ill and had been put on a ventilator. Gold and Silver Pool Hospital doctor became infected earlier.
“在行业内，这是一个信号。
"In the industry, this is a signal.
医生感染，这事就严重了。
The doctor is infected. It's serious.
”1月16日早上，邱辰到武汉协和医院去“求证”，发现感染科医护人员穿着防护服，戴着口罩，“在武汉10多年，没见过这个阵势”。
On the morning of January 16, Qiu Chen went to Wuhan Hsiehe Hospital to "verify" and found that hospital staff wearing protective clothing and masks, "in Wuhan more than 10 years, not seen this situation.
返程乘坐地铁时，邱辰观察到，周围的乘客没有人戴口罩。
On the return trip to the subway, Qiu observed that none of the passengers around him were wearing masks.
“刚拘了几个，我什么也不敢说。
"I dare not say anything, having detained a few.
”他脑子里盘算着两件事，一是要想办法给自己买点口罩，二是公司的产品可能有市场。
Two things were on his mind, one was to find a way to buy some masks for himself, and the other was that there might be a market for the company's products.
“本来是做生意的，做着做着成了公益。
"Business as it should be, doing it as a public good.
”邱辰纳闷。
Qiu Chen wondered.
在某种看不见的巨大力量下，很多人都在“身不由己”。
With some unseen power, many people are "out of their control."
一名采购试剂盒的经销商起初怕医疗机构结不了款，怕政府“秋后算账”，落个“非法经营”的罪名，但还是垫钱继续进货。
A dealer who purchased the kit initially feared that the medical establishment would not be able to pay the bills. He was afraid that the government would "settle the accounts" and settle the "illegal business" charges.
一位90后护士本来已经休假，在封城后搭交警巡逻车去医院“支援”。
A 90-year-old nurse was already on leave and took a traffic patrol car to the hospital to "back up" behind closed doors.
邱辰碰巧遇见，载了她一程。
Qiu Chen happened to meet and gave her a lift.
中部战区总医院PCR实验室，一位女医生自从开始进行新冠病毒核酸检测后，至今未见过家人。
A woman doctor at the PCR laboratory at the Central Theatre General Hospital has not seen her family since she began testing for HCV nucleic acid.
尽管他的丈夫也在同一家医院工作。
Although her husband also works in the same hospital.
邱辰也坦言：“早知道会封城，早知道这么严重，我或许不会回来，我也不知道。
Qiu Chen also confessed: "I knew the city would be closed, early know so serious, I may not come back, I do not know.
”2月初，武汉的“试剂盒”已经不再告缺，邱辰忙着帮公司安排“捐赠”的物资和物流。
In early February, Wuhan "kit" is no longer in short supply, Qiu Chen busy helping the company arrange "donated" material and logistics.
“不管有多少物资进来，都不算销售业绩咯！”可这个湖北人停不下来。
"No matter how much material comes in, it is not sales results!" But this Hubei people can not stop.
1月29日早上，他曾到湖北省人民医院，辅助医院做公司新冠病毒核酸检测试剂盒的“临床试验病例报告”。
On the morning of January 29, he went to Hubei Provincial People's Hospital to do the company's new crown virus nucleic acid test kit "clinical trial report."
原来的眼科中心，当时被改造为隔离病房。
The original eye center was converted into an isolation ward.
邱辰意外得知，有一位医生送婆婆来就诊，结果全家“就地隔离”。
Qiu Chen accidentally learned that a doctor sent her mother-in-law to see a doctor, resulting in the family "in situ isolation."
有人说了一句：“都没来得及买点东西。
Someone said, "There's not enough time to buy something.
”他立即下楼，冲进医院对面的超市，买好脸盆、衣架、消毒湿巾等物品，给那位“完全不认识”的医生送去。
He immediately went downstairs and rushed into the supermarket across the hospital to buy basin, hanger, disinfectant wipes and other items for the "completely unknown" doctor.
邱辰为被隔离的医生全家采购了生活用品。
Qiu chen purchased daily necessities for the isolated doctor's family.
离开停车场的时候，有车刮蹭了他的车。
As he left the parking lot, a car scraped his car.
驾驶员神色慌乱，赔给邱辰100元钱。
The driver looked flustered and paid Qiu Chen 100 yuan.
“你慌什么？”邱辰忍不住问。
"What are you panicking?" Qiu Chen couldn't help asking.
“我母亲因为那个肺炎去世了。
"My mother died of pneumonia.
”对方答。
"the other replied.
邱辰愣了一下，他把钱还了回去。
Qiu Chen Leng a moment, he returned the money back.
（应采访对象要求，文中邱辰、吴跃为化名。
At the request of the interviewee, Qiu Chen and Wu Yue are aliases.
本文配图均为受访者提供。
The accompanying drawings are provided by the respondents.
）中国青年报·中青在线出品微信编辑 | 陈轶男觉得好看请点这里。
) China Youth Daily Zhongqing online products micro-letter editor & # 45; Chen Yi male thinks good-looking please click here.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
他把近8万人份的试剂盒带进湖北。
He took nearly 80,000 dosing kits into Hubei.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "冰点周刊";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "他把近8万人份的试剂盒带进湖北";。
var msg _ title = & quot; He brought nearly 80,000 test kits to Hubei & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "“本来是做生意的，做着做着成了公益。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "Was originally in business; did it in the public interest.
”";。
";;
var title ="冰点周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
