“新冠疫苗研发永远有必要，人类不能总被病毒追着打”。
"The development of a new canopy vaccine is always necessary and humans cannot always be chased by the virus," he said.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
1月26日，中国疾控中心病毒病所表示，该中心已成功分离新冠疫苗病毒，正在筛选种子毒株。
On January 26, China's CDC Virus Institute said it had successfully isolated the new canopy vaccine virus and was screening for seed strains.
种子毒株的筛选是研发疫苗的第一步，全国十几家机构都在基于此争分夺秒地推进新冠疫苗的研发。
The screening of the seed strain is the first step in the development of a vaccine, on the basis of which a dozen institutions around the country are pushing ahead with the development of a new crown vaccine.
接受采访的研究者们表示，新冠疫苗需要跟时间赛跑。
Researchers interviewed said the new crown vaccine needed to race against time.
即便追不上病毒的速度，新冠疫苗的研发也是永远有必要的，至少可以为下一次的可能疫情做好准备，“人类不能总是被突发传染病追着打。
Even if the virus does not catch up, the development of a new canopy vaccine will always be necessary, at least for the next possible outbreak. "Humans cannot always be chased by outbreaks of infectious disease."
”记者 | 严岩从SARS疫苗到新冠疫苗1月10日，清华大学医学院教授张林琦的实验室拿到了新冠病毒的基因组序列，十几个人就开始连轴转地做实验，他们每个人都很清楚——新冠疫苗的研发，需要跟时间赛跑。
Yan Yan's lab at Tsinghua University School of Medicine took possession of the genome sequence of the new crown virus on Jan. 10, and a dozen people began experimenting in pairs, all of them aware that the development of a new crown vaccine will require a race against time.
实验室制定了严格的计划，哪些实验必须得当天做完，哪些可以稍微等一等，“之前做SARS疫苗的人，现在都去抓紧研究新冠疫苗了”。
Laboratories have strict plans for what needs to be done that day and what can wait a bit. "People who used to do the SARS vaccine are now working on the new crown vaccine."
这些年来，针对冠状病毒的疫苗研究，张林琦的团队一直在推进。
Over the years, Zhang's team has been pushing for a vaccine against coronavirus.
尤其在MERS（中东呼吸综合症冠状病毒）方面，他的团队已经完成了MERS疫苗在动物水平的试验，有效性验证完毕，但后期因为没有更多经费资助就停滞了。
In particular, in the case of MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus), his team has completed an animal-level trial of the MERS vaccine, which has been validated, but has since stalled without additional funding.
远征 摄据统计，SARS期间曾有十几家机构做过疫苗研发，但在病毒基因组发布后，研究人员花了20个月的时间才推进到人体临床试验，那时候SARS疫情早已消失，疫苗上市的计划由于临床推进的困难、后续资金的不足，就此搁置。
According to statistics from the expedition, more than a dozen institutions were involved in vaccine development during the SARS period, but it took researchers 20 months after the virus genome was released to advance into human clinical trials, when the SARS epidemic was long gone, and plans for a vaccine market were put on hold because of difficulties in clinical progression and inadequate follow-up funding.
“真的很遗憾。
"I'm really sorry.
如果这一次，我们能有SARS疫苗的话，至少在面对新冠的时候能有一些预防。
If we can get a SARS vaccine this time around, at least some precaution in the face of a new crown.
由于SARS和这次的新冠病毒共用一个受体蛋白ACE2，如果SARS疫苗对人体起到保护性的免疫反应，那么就能在一定程度上阻挡新冠的入侵”。
Because SARS and the new canopy virus share a receptor protein ACE2, if the SARS vaccine acts as a protective immune response to the human body, it will be able to block the new crown invasion to some extent.
张林琦说。
Zhang Lin Qi said.
目前，在了解新冠病毒和SARS病毒之间的共性部分外，张林琦的团队正在不断验证两者在结构功能上到底有哪些差异。
Now, in addition to understanding the common denominator between the new crown virus and the SARS virus, Zhang's team is constantly trying to figure out how the two differ in structure.
事实上，就在2月5日，英国政府追加2000万磅（总计4000万磅）用于新冠疫苗和防疫技术的研发。
Indeed, just February 5, the British government added 20 million pounds (40 million pounds) to the research and development of new crown vaccines and preventive medicine.
在英国卫生部启动的研究2019-nCov Rapid Response Call申请中明确提到了一个概念——“交叉保护力”（Cross-reactivity），是疫苗效价评价中使用不同亚型病毒进行攻毒保护试验，检测疫苗的保护率。
A concept explicitly mentioned in the UK Department of Health's 2019-nCov Rapid Response Call application - "cross-protection" - is the use of different subtypes of viruses in vaccine potency evaluation to test vaccine protection rates.
张林琦解释，“英国政府想寻找的就是，现有的对于新冠病毒具有交叉保护力的疫苗候选。
"What the British government is looking for is a vaccine candidate that has cross-protection potential for the new crown virus," Zhang explained.
这意味着，如果一线医护人员接种SARS疫苗的话，在本次疫情中就可能会降低医护感染”。
This means that if front-line health care workers are vaccinated against SARS, it may be possible to reduce health-care infections in this outbreak.
远征 摄“我们都知道，研发疫苗是需要很长时间的，但从我们过去对SARS这类病毒的认知，我可以拍着胸口讲，这个疫苗肯定会成功！但是要尊重自然规律，它需要一步一步的实验。
"We all know it takes a long time to develop a vaccine, but from what we've learned about viruses like SARS in the past, I can slap my chest and say that the vaccine is sure to succeed.
”1月26日，中国疾控中心主任高福表示。
Gao Fu, director of the China CDC, said on January 26.
事实上，疫苗的研发主要分为三个部分：种子毒株筛选和试剂、动物模型下交叉保护力试验，以及临床试验的安全性、有效性验证。
In fact, vaccine development is divided into three parts: seed strain screening and reagents, animal model cross-protection tests, and clinical trials of safety, efficacy verification.
1月26日，中国疾控中心病毒病所所长许文波说，该中心已启动新型冠状病毒的疫苗研发，目前已经成功分离病毒，正在筛选种子毒株。
On January 26, Xu Wenbo, director of the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), said the center had started developing a vaccine for the new coronavirus.
筛到毒株后，选择以哪种模式去开发疫苗，也是影响疫苗研制成功的重要因素。
After screening the virulent strain, the selection of which model to develop the vaccine is also an important factor affecting the success of the vaccine.
张林琦说，“现在各个机构选择了不同的疫苗研发策略，大家在共同开发疫苗过程中相互比较验证，目的是筛选出最有效的疫苗。
'Now each agency has chosen a different vaccine development strategy, and everyone is comparing it with each other in the process of developing the vaccine, with the aim of screening out the most effective vaccine, "Zhang said.
但疫苗策略到底怎么做，这是资源、能力、技术的综合问题了”。
But how the vaccine strategy works is a mix of resources, capabilities and technology.
好消息是，新冠疫苗的研发难度或许并不大。
The good news is that it may not be as difficult to develop a new crown vaccine.
张林琦解释，很多人有每年打流感疫苗的经验，之所以每年都需要打，正是因为流感病毒的突变率极高，它们通过突变来逃过免疫系统的攻击。
Many people have annual flu shots and need to fight them every year because the flu virus has such a high mutation rate that they escape the immune system, Zhang explained.
相比之下，至今看来新冠病毒没有很大的变异。
By contrast, the new crown virus does not appear to have changed much so far.
“目前从各地获取的毒株序列来看，有来源于武汉、北京，甚至美国患者的咽拭子等呼吸道样本，所有的毒株基因序列几乎长得一模一样。
"There are respiratory samples from Wuhan, Beijing and even the United States, all of which are genetically identical," he said.
这也在某种程度上支持了新冠病毒突变率不高的判断。
This also supports to some extent the new crown virus mutation rate is not high judgement.
至少，病毒目前为止没有发生基因突变，我们猜测也许比流感疫苗的研发简单一点”。
At least, the virus has not mutated so far, and we suspect it may be easier to develop than a flu vaccine.
远征 摄至于新冠疫苗的研发完成时间，张林琦表示无法预计。
Expeditionary photography As for the new crown vaccine research and development completion time, Zhang Lin Qi said cannot predict.
“我个人觉得，目前已知的各类报道对疫苗的预估时间都太快了。
"Personally, it seems to me that the various reports that have been reported so far have been too fast for the vaccine.
预防性疫苗的安全性是第一位的，安全性实验至少需要半年的时间才能做完，而有效性评估需要在动物体内做活病毒的攻毒实验，也不是一两个月就能拿到准确的数据的。
The safety of preventive vaccines is paramount, and safety trials take at least six months to complete, and efficacy assessments require virulent tests in animals, and accurate data are not available in a month or two.
虽然现在是非常时期，但这些时间是无法跨越的”。
These are extraordinary times, but they cannot be overcome.
并非可以规律预测的疫苗“当今最快从一个毒株研制出可以使用的疫苗就是流感疫苗，比如去年流行的毒株，我们预测可以用来预防今年的流感，那就把毒株拿出来做成疫苗给大家接种”。
Not a vaccine that can be predicted regularly "The fastest vaccine available today from a single strain is a flu vaccine, like last year's, which we predict could be used to prevent this year's flu, so take out the virulent strain and vaccinate everyone."
武汉大学病原生物学副教授冯勇此前接受采访时说。
Feng Yong, associate professor of pathogenic biology at Wuhan University, said earlier in an interview.
疫苗研发总在和病毒变异的速度竞赛，那么为何人们每年都来得及注射流感疫苗呢？从某种角度来说，正因为流感是“季节性”的，也就是每年都会来，因而疫苗的研发可以提前准备，并对抗变化莫测的流感病毒。
Vaccine development competes with the rate at which the virus mutates, so why do people get a flu shot every year? In a way, because flu is "seasonal," that is, it comes every year, vaccine development can be prepared ahead of time and against the vagaries of the flu virus.
此外，流感疫苗的制备流程中有一套比较完善的预测机制。
In addition, the influenza vaccine preparation process has a relatively complete set of forecasting mechanisms.
本刊采访了从事流感病毒致病机制和疫苗研究多年的李哨鸣，他向本刊解释，“哈尔滨兽医研究所和香港大学两家国家流感病毒流行监测中心每季会采样观察，由他们向国家疾控中心和卫健委报告，并综合世卫组织的报告指南，更新毒株的流行报告，并最终确认主要的流行毒株。
"The Harbin Veterinary Institute and the two National Influenza Pandemic Monitoring Centres of the University of Hong Kong report quarterly to the CDC and the WHRC, and synthesize WHO reporting guidelines to update the virulence reports and eventually identify the main virulent strains," Lee explained to the magazine.
所以，流感疫苗从来不是当季的疫苗，是预测后再提前制作。
So the flu vaccine is never a seasonal vaccine. It is made in advance of a forecast.
”那么，新冠疫苗是不是也会有这样一套预测机制呢？远征 摄有观点认为，新冠病毒未来可能成为一种流行性疾病，甚至可能会和流感一样。
So will a new crown vaccine have such a predictive mechanism? The idea is that the new crown virus could become an epidemic in the future, perhaps even like the flu.
香港大学病理学临床教授约翰·尼科尔斯(John Nicholls)最近就提到，“我的感觉是，新冠将会像非典一样。
As John Nicholls, professor of pathology at the University of Hong Kong, recently noted, "My feeling is that the new crown will be like SARS."
大概在五个月内，人们基本上得了一场非常严重的感冒”。
In about five months, people have basically had a very bad cold.
但李哨鸣对此持反对意见，“我不认为新冠会演变成为流感样的感染。
"I don't think the new crown will evolve into a flu-like infection.
虽然流感病毒与新冠病毒都是RNA病毒，都通过呼吸道传播，发病早期症状非常相似，临床上容易造成混淆，不好鉴别诊断。
Although both the influenza virus and the new crown virus are RNA viruses, which are transmitted through the respiratory tract, the early symptoms are very similar and clinically confusing and difficult to distinguish.
但新冠和流感病毒最本质的区别是：目前没有有效的证据显示新冠患者可自愈，并且不会造成肺脏以及其他器官的可恢复性损伤。
But the fundamental difference between the new cap and the flu virus is that there is no valid evidence that patients with the new crown heal themselves and do not cause restorative damage to the lungs and other organs.
即使大部分患者属于轻症患者，也不代表他们的肺脏不会留下影像学痕迹。
Even if most patients are mildly ill, this does not mean that their lungs will not leave any traces of radiology.
而且，流感病毒主要引发发热，咳嗽、流鼻涕等，临床上少见肺炎以及中重症肺炎；而新冠感染致病主要集中于肺部，大部分病患出现轻度、中重度肺炎”。
In addition, influenza viruses mainly cause fever, cough, runny nose, clinical rare pneumonia and severe pneumonia; and the new crown infection mainly concentrated in the lungs, most patients have mild, moderate and severe pneumonia. "
李哨鸣更倾向认为，新冠会和SARS那样，在人际间的传播会大概率被消灭。
Lee is more likely to believe that the new crown, like SARS, will eliminate the high probability of interpersonal transmission.
“人不是该病毒的天然宿主，从流行病学角度考虑，该病毒缺乏长期有效流行的基础。
"Humans are not the natural hosts of the virus, and epidemiologically the virus lacks the basis for a long-term epidemic."
虽然媒体上报道出现了几个无症状感染者，但是这些都还有待医学上的证明。
Although several asymptomatic infections have been reported in the media, these have yet to be medically proven.
以此为依据，认为该病会如流感一样没事，这是错误的”。
On this basis, it is wrong to assume that the disease will be as good as the flu. "
远征 摄正是因为新冠病毒是突发性传染病，也就不适用流感疫苗的预测机制了。
Expeditionary photography is precisely because the new crown virus is a sudden infectious disease, so influenza vaccine does not apply to the prediction mechanism.
“SARS后来在人际间就再没有发生过，这样就没有办法做流行病学监测，而目前获得的毒株信息只能来自于疫情感染中的病人，疫情结束后，很可能几乎监测不到新的毒株信息，也就无法做出对应的疫苗防控策略。
"SARS has not happened in humans since then, so there is no way to do epidemiological surveillance, and the information available can only come from people who are infected with the virus, and when the outbreak is over, it is likely that little new information will be available to monitor the new strains and to develop appropriate vaccine prevention and control strategies.
”李哨鸣补充。
'he added.
那么，如果新冠最终和SARS一样，消失得无影无踪，疫苗研发还有必要吗？不能总被病毒追着打“每次突发急性传染病，人类都如此被动，追都追不上病毒的传播。
So if the new crown disappears like SARS, is vaccine development necessary? It cannot always be chased by viruses. "Every outbreak of acute infectious disease, humans are so passive that they cannot catch up with the spread of the virus.
如果疫苗能提前研发，就相当于把枪膛上好，等病毒出现后直接歼灭。
If the vaccine could be developed in advance, it would be tantamount to keeping the gun loaded and then annihilating it directly after the virus appears.
”张林琦说。
"said Zhang Lin Qi.
比尔·盖茨也在2015年的公开演讲中感慨：“当我还是小孩时，我们最担心的是核战争，但是未来如果有什么东西可以杀掉上千万人，更可能是个高度传染的病毒，而非战争。
Bill Gates also lamented in his 2015 public address: "When I was a child, what we were most concerned about was a nuclear war, but if something could kill tens of millions of people in the future, it was more likely to be a highly contagious virus than a war."
我们在核威慑上投入巨大资金，但在防范疫情方面却少之又少。
We have invested heavily in nuclear deterrence, but very little in the way of pandemic preparedness.
”“其实人类对传染性的疾病理应都有准备，但传染病来的少，又太偶然，趋利为主的企业不会愿意投资去做；而其他相关部门又可能受限于眼界和智慧，也没有提前储备的意识”。
"Humans are supposed to be prepared for infectious diseases, but infectious diseases come infrequently and by accident. Profit-oriented businesses are reluctant to invest; other relevant sectors may be limited by vision and intelligence, and have no awareness of pre-emptive reserves."
张林琦无奈地说。
Zhang Lin Qi helplessly said.
远征 摄张林琦多年来一直在倡导政府联合科研机构，针对突发急性传染病建立一个机制。
Zhang Lin Qi, an expedition photographer, has been advocating for years for a joint government research institute to set up a mechanism for sudden acute infectious diseases.
“提前做疫苗的技术储备。
"Technical reserve of vaccines in advance.
比如，有些机构疫苗的研发已经完成了验证疫苗安全性的Ⅰ期临床试验，进行到了Ⅱ期临床，这一次或许就可以直接应用在疫情防控中去。
For example, some of the organization's vaccine development has completed phase I clinical trials to verify vaccine safety, in phase II clinical trials, this time may be directly applicable to disease control.
为了测试疫苗的安全性和有效性，疫苗的Ⅰ期临床试验是小规模在健康人身上做；预防性疫苗的Ⅱ期临床试验一般是在高危人群中开展，需要有疫情的存在才能验证疫苗的有效性；Ⅲ期临床试验一般是需要在大规模人群（包括高危人群和健康人群）中开展，进一步验证疫苗的有效性，这部分研究工作也需要在有疫情的情况下才能开展，疫情一结束就意味着没有感染者了，也就无法检测疫苗的有效性了”。
In order to test the safety and efficacy of vaccines, phase I clinical trials for vaccines are conducted on a small scale in healthy people; phase II clinical trials for preventive vaccines are generally conducted among high-risk populations and require an epidemic to verify the effectiveness of vaccines; and phase III clinical trials generally need to be conducted in large populations (including high-risk and healthy populations).
这一倡议，也能在国际公共组织“流行病防范创新联盟”（CEPI）中找到相对应的理念。
This initiative could also find a counterpart in the International Public Organization's "Alliance for Innovation in Epidemiology" (CEPI).
此前，英国政府将2000万英镑捐赠至该机构。
Earlier, the government had donated ￡20m to the agency.
此外盖茨基金会拿出6000万美元资金用于此次新冠病毒的疫苗、治疗等，支持对象中就有CEPI。
In addition, the Gates Foundation spent $60 million on vaccines, treatments and other treatments for the new crown virus, which includes CEPI.
“其实中国现阶段疫苗的生产能力完全没问题，但对于预防突发的传染病，有时候不是技术问题，而是智慧。
"In fact, China's vaccine production capacity at this stage is not a problem at all, but for the prevention of sudden infectious diseases, sometimes not technical issues, but wisdom.
如果临床做完Ⅰ期临床试验的疫苗项目，国家将其作为公共项目做应急的技术储备，一旦需要的时候立即推进到Ⅱ期临床试验，疫苗研发会更有效”。
If clinical trials of phase I vaccines are completed, the state will use them as a technical reserve for emergency response to public projects, and vaccine development will be more effective as soon as the need arises to advance to phase II clinical trials.
张林琦说。
Zhang Lin Qi said.
远征 摄一位不愿具名的业内人士告诉本刊，“美国有两方面力量做这个事情。
"The United States has two powers to do this," an anonymous insider told the magazine.
一个是美国卫生研究院，他们对于各种传染病都会做研究，能制备疫苗的，基本都会有技术储备，但不一定生产。
One is the National Institutes of Health, which does research into all kinds of infectious diseases, and those that can produce vaccines generally have technical reserves, but not necessarily produce them.
另一个是大型生物药企，基于市场利益驱动，会有选择性的投入资源生产储备。
The other is large biopharmaceuticals, which are driven by market interests and selectively invest in resource production reserves.
有一点很重要，疫苗在美国是公益领域，政府会投入很多钱来买单，企业一点顾虑也没有。
It is important to note that vaccines are a public good in the United States and that the government will spend a lot of money to pay for them.
而在国内，至少在科研上，受制于重大传染病的法律约束，一些烈性传染病只能被少数有资质的科研单位垄断，国内产学研开放的程度导致一些研究最终止步于实验室。
At home, at least in scientific research, subject to the legal constraints of major infectious diseases, some violent infectious diseases can only be monopolized by a few qualified scientific research units.
各级疾控中心除了承担本级的传染病防控宣传外，还把控了疫苗的资源”。
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at all levels, in addition to their own infectious disease control publicity, will also control the vaccine resources.
发生在埃博拉病毒身上的故事可以视作一个预警。
The story of the Ebola virus can be seen as an early warning.
理查德·普雷斯顿在描写1967年至1993年埃博拉病毒缘起的著作《血疫》中曾说，“我们不能再等到疫情爆发后才开始应对，而是事先做好准备。
Richard Preston, writing about the origins of the Ebola virus from 1967 to 1993, once said, "We can no longer wait for the outbreak of the outbreak before we begin to respond, but must be prepared in advance."
艾滋病病毒、埃博拉以及其他高危病毒的出现，似乎是人类侵犯了以前未受干扰的环境，消灭了病毒的储存宿主，因此病毒就需要一个新的，那就是人类。
The emergence of HIV, Ebola, and other high-risk viruses seems to have caused humans to invade previously undisturbed environments, eliminating virus storage hosts, so the virus needs a new one: humans.
埃博拉病毒现在已经退回到了丛林深处，在那里它可以不断学习、变异。
Ebola has now returned to the depths of the jungle, where it can learn and mutate.
相信我，这个怪物还会再回来的，我们需要做好准备。
Trust me, this monster will come back. We need to be ready.
”事实上，埃博拉病毒已于2018年归来，席卷刚果东部地区并持续至今。
Indeed, the Ebola virus returned in 2018, engulfing the eastern Congo and continuing to this day.
所幸，2019年11月13日，美国默沙东公司生产的埃博拉疫苗上市，自去年8月以来，当地及邻国已有数十万人接种，有效阻止了疫情进一步蔓延。
Fortunately, on November 13, 2019, the US company Mercado's Ebola vaccine went on the market, and hundreds of thousands of people there and in neighboring countries have been vaccinated since last August, effectively preventing the epidemic from spreading further.
（文中李哨鸣为化名）作者档案严岩请内科或血液科大夫，愿意匿名接受采访的，请联系我。
Yan Yan requested an internal medicine or blood physician, willing to give an anonymous interview, please contact me.
添加时烦请自我介绍，谢谢！26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微信：roseisnotred请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Please introduce yourself, thank you! 26 minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Message: Jet Lifestyle New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Triple Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to our friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
点击图片，一键下单【武汉现场：抗击新冠肺炎】点击阅读原文，进入周刊书店，购买【新冠特刊】。
Click on the picture, one click to order Wuhan scene: Fight New Crown Pneumonia, enter the weekly bookstore, buy the new crown special issue.
严徽因。
Yan Huiyin.
免疫力就是战斗力，加油！。
Immunity is combat effectiveness. Come on.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
免疫力就是战斗力，加油！。
Immunity is combat effectiveness. Come on.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“新冠疫苗研发永远有必要，人类不能总被病毒追着打”。
"The development of a new canopy vaccine is always necessary and humans cannot always be chased by the virus," he said.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“新冠疫苗研发永远有必要，人类不能总被病毒追着打”";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "我们不能再等到疫情爆发后才开始应对，而是事先做好准备。
var msg _ desc = & quot; we can no longer wait for the outbreak to start responding; we must be prepared.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
