抗击新冠：CT结果将纳入诊断标准。
Fight New Crown: CT results will be included in the diagnostic criteria.
张从志。
Zhang Congzhi.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
试剂盒短缺局面缓解后，作为新冠肺炎确诊主要标准的核酸检测再度引发争论。
Nucleic acid testing, the main criterion for the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia, has reignited since the shortage of test kits eased.
有些在疫情一线工作的医生发现，一些患者核酸检测结果为阴性，病情却在持续发展，且家人也出现感染。
Some doctors working on the front lines of the outbreak have found that some patients tested negative for nucleic acid, but their condition continues to develop and their families are infected.
除了核酸检测，不少专家提出，CT影像结果也应纳入新冠肺炎的筛查标准，这是否可行？专家的呼吁已获得决策层面的回应。
In addition to nucleic acid testing, many experts have suggested that CT images should also be included in the screening criteria for new crown pneumonia.
就在2月5日下午，国家卫健委发布《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，规定将CT影像结果作为临床诊断病例的诊断标准（只限于湖北省内）。
On the afternoon of February 5, the National Health Commission announced the "Diagnosis and Treatment of Pneumonia Infected by New Coronavirus (Trial Version 5)," which requires CT images to be used as diagnostic criteria for clinical cases (only in Hubei province).
记者 | 张从志 王珊核酸检测为阴性？距离第一次核酸检测近一周后，2月3日，王晖又带着母亲吴芳到医院做了一次核酸检测。
Almost a week after his first DNA test, Wang Hui took his mother, Wu Fang, to the hospital for a nucleic acid test.
吴芳今年70岁，1月23日她开始发烧，三天后病情恶化，出现呼吸困难、全身无力、呕吐等症状。
Wu Fang, 70, developed a fever on January 23 and three days later developed symptoms such as dyspnea, general weakness and vomiting.
王晖赶紧开车带母亲去了武汉市第八医院，肺部CT刚做完，母亲还没从CT机上下来，医生就跟他说，“你们要离病人远一点。
Wang Hui hastened to drive his mother to Wuhan eighth hospital, lung CT just finished, the mother has not come down from the CT machine, the doctor said to him, "you have to stay away from the patient.
”CT结果显示吴芳双肺呈现磨玻璃影，均已被感染，化验报告出来后，医生又排除了病毒流感、细菌性感染、感冒等几个有相似症状的疾病，“可能性只有一个（新冠肺炎）了。
The CT results showed that Wu Fang's lungs had been stained with grinding glass. After laboratory reports came out, doctors ruled out several diseases with similar symptoms, such as viral influenza, bacterial infection and colds.
”为了确诊，1月28日，王晖带着母亲去武汉协和医院做核酸检测，医生看了吴芳的CT和检验报告后，开具了核酸检测项目单。
To confirm the diagnosis, Wang Hui took his mother to Wuhan Concorde Hospital for a nucleic acid test on Jan. 28, and the doctor looked at Wu Fang's CT and test report and drew up a list of nucleic acid tests.
王晖说，医生告诉他，核酸检测仅限于CT及查血结果提示高度疑似者。
Wang said doctors told him that nucleic acid testing was limited to CT and blood tests that suggested a high level of suspicion.
王晖的母亲情况越来越重，王晖只能寄希望于通过核酸检测确诊，将母亲送入医院住院治疗。
Wang Hui's mother is getting heavier and heavier, Wang Hui can only hope to be diagnosed through nucleic acid testing, the mother was hospitalized.
新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒检测人员给吴芳做了咽拭子采样后告知王晖，检测结果不公开，阳性结果会在24至48小时内以电话通知。
The new coronavirus nucleic acid detection kit tester to Wu Fang after sampling swabs told Wang Hui that the test results are not made public, the positive results will be notified by telephone within 24 to 48 hours.
但第一次采样一周后，他们仍未收到任何形式的告知，所以判断检测结果可能是阴性。
But a week after the first sampling, they still did not receive any form of notification, so the test results were judged likely to be negative.
而接下来的几天里，吴芳的病情仍未好转。
Over the next few days, Wu Fang's condition did not improve.
王晖只好带母亲又去做了一次核酸检测。
Wang Hui had to take his mother to do a nucleic acid test.
截至发稿时，距离第二次采样时间已接近48小时，王晖仍未收到检测结果。
By the time of writing, the second sampling time has approached 48 hours, Wang Hui has still not received the test results.
王晖说：“到底是阴性还是阳性，还是说我母亲的检测结果出现了假阴性的问题，我都不知道。
"I don't know whether it was negative or positive, or whether my mother's test results showed false-negative," Wang said.
如果是阴性，是不是应该给个书面结果？拿着它，我母亲就可以上街了，也不需要被你隔离。
If it's negative, should I give it in writing? Take it and my mother can go out on the street without you having to isolate her.
”有不少临床医生也遇到了类似的困惑。
A number of clinicians have encountered similar dilemmas.
四川大学华西医院教授，呼吸与危重症医学科副主任罗凤鸣是四川医疗队的领队，对口援助武汉红十字会医院。
Sichuan University Huaxi Hospital professor, breathing and critical medical science deputy director Luo Fengming is the Sichuan medical team leader, counterpart assistance Wuhan Red Cross Hospital.
他告诉本刊记者，“我们病区有20多个病人，根据我的临床经验，大部分都是新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎。
"We have more than 20 patients in our area and, according to my clinical experience, most of them are pneumonia from the new coronavirus," he told reporters.
不过有些病人我判断是（新冠肺炎），但检测结果是阴性。
But some patients I judged to be (new crown pneumonia), but the test results were negative.
”罗凤鸣认为这存在两种可能性，一是取样过程和检测方法可能存在问题，二是这些疑似病人经过治疗以后变成了阴性，是治疗的一个结果。
Lo believes there are two possible problems with the sampling process and detection methods and that the suspected patients became negative after treatment as a result of treatment.
“所以即使做了核酸检测，得到了检测结果，我们心里也不是很确定的。
"So even with the nucleic acid test and the test results, we're not really sure.
”罗凤鸣说，自己现在的做法是根据临床经验，结合病人的症状、病史、以及影像学、检验的结果来综合判断。
Mr. Luo says his approach now is to combine clinical experience with the patient's symptoms, medical history, and the results of imaging and testing.
CT结果可否纳入诊断标准？2月3日，武汉大学中南医院影像科副主任张笑春朋友圈的一张截图引发了关于核酸检测的争论。
A screenshot of Zhang Xiaochun, deputy director of the imaging department of Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, sparked a debate over the detection of nucleic acids.
张笑春在朋友圈呼吁，“别再迷信核酸检测了”，她强烈推荐以 CT 影像作为目前新冠肺炎筛查的主要依据；同时给予无症状或核酸检测阴性但 CT 影像显示肺部已经出现问题的人做隔离。
"Stop superstition about nucleic acid testing," Zhang urged friends to use CT images as the main basis for current screening for pneumonia, while isolating people who are asymptomatic or nucleic acid negative but whose CT images show lung problems.
张笑春的判断出于她的观察——武汉市家庭聚集性发病越来越多，而且大多起病隐匿，一次甚至多次核酸阴性，无任何临床症状。
Zhang Xiaochun's judgment is based on her observation - Wuhan more and more cases of family aggregation, and most of the disease occult, one or more times nucleic acid negative, without any clinical symptoms.
张笑春后来在接受采访时进一步解释称，不少患者 CT 发现了问题，但核酸检测结果是阴性，让他们回家了，几天过后，患者情况加重，一家人都被传染了。
Zhang further explained in an interview that CT findings in many patients, but Nucleic acid test results are negative, let them go home, a few days later, the patient's condition worsened, the whole family was infected.
“检测所用的仪器并非人们想象的如检测早孕的试纸条一样，拿点尿样就可以自己做了。
"The test isn't the kind of test paper people think is needed to detect early pregnancy. You can take a urine sample and do it yourself," she said
核酸检测从取样、分离和测定，均有在一个专门的环境要求，尤其是针对感染性样本。
Nucleic acid detection from sampling, separation and determination is available in a specific environmental requirement, especially for infectious samples.
它不是说你拿了病毒就可以测了，还要把病毒的核酸分离提取出来，从取样到分离、提取环节，如果不严格按照要求进行的话，这些过程都容易被污染，可能会导致检测结果的不准确性。
It doesn't mean you can take the virus and extract the nucleic acid, from sampling to separation, extraction, if not strictly required, these processes are susceptible to contamination, which may lead to inaccurate testing results.
”一位不愿意具名的专家告诉本刊，核酸检测本身也有一定的技术局限性，比如说它的假阳性的概率相对较高，“因为新型冠状病毒是个RNA病毒，如果时间长了它还会降解，这些都会影响检测的准确性。
An unnamed expert told the print that the nucleic acid test itself has certain technical limitations, such as its relatively high probability of false positivity, "because the new coronavirus is a RNA virus that will degrade over time, which can affect the accuracy of the test.
”她认为，核酸检测对实验室的环境要求以及实验室操作人员的技术要求非常高，所以不能够盲目扩大或者随意降低检测门槛。
In her view, nucleic acid testing, with its high environmental requirements for laboratories and the high technical requirements of laboratory operators, should not blindly expand or arbitrarily lower detection thresholds.
张笑春说，她在朋友圈的发文并不是要否定核酸检测的结果，只是认为武汉目前的环境下，将核酸检测作为最终检测的手段，受到产量、采样方式等限制，满足不了大量人群需求，“武汉作为疫区无法在现阶段完全依赖核酸检测去筛查病人，达到切断传染源的防控效果。
Zhang said her message in the circle of friends was not intended to negate the nucleic acid test results, but said Wuhan as the current environment, Nucleic acid testing as the final means of detection, the production, sampling methods, and other constraints to meet the needs of a large number of people, "Wuhan as an epidemic area can not rely solely on nucleic acid screening to screen patients, achieve the control effect of cutting off the source of infection.
”一家三级医院影像科的医生告诉本刊，他们医院每天接近有300人做CT，多数人显示肺部有问题，“这里一部分人可以确诊为新冠肺炎，但目前医院只有100个核酸检测的指标，所以没有做的患者也不能排除没有感染。
Doctors at a level-III hospital told the magazine that nearly 300 people a day at their hospital had CT scans, most of them showing lung problems. "Some people here can be diagnosed with Newcastle Pneumonia, but there are only 100 markers of nucleic acid testing in hospitals, so those who don't can't rule out infection.
”美国德克萨斯大学安德森休斯敦癌症中心放射肿瘤科胸部肿瘤放射治疗临床主任张玉蛟最近也收到了国内很多影像科医生关于新冠肺炎诊断标准方面的求助，他没有急着回复，而是研究了所有与疫情相关的公开数据。
Zhang Yujiao, clinical director of breast cancer radiotherapy at the University of Texas at Anderson Hueston Cancer Center, recently received help from many imaging doctors in China about the new crown pneumonia diagnosis standard.
张玉蛟对本刊分析说，从目前的信息来看，检测试剂盒的数量可能还是不够，敏感度也成问题，假阴性问题确实给临床医生的诊断增加了难度。
Zhang Yu-jiao told the magazine analysis, from the current information, the number of test kits may still be insufficient, sensitivity is also problematic, false negative questions do add clinicians to the diagnosis.
“现在无论是武汉还是全国，新发病例的数量都在不断增长，从这个角度，我认为需要一个更好的措施来阻断疫情的传播。
"At a time when the number of new cases is increasing, both in Wuhan and throughout the country, I think a better way to stop the spread of the disease is needed.
”远征 摄“很多医院都有CT，做完检查可以第一时间出结果，然后根据临床情况判断，实操性要更强。
"Expeditionary photography" Many hospitals have computed tomography (CT), which can produce results in the first place, and then, depending on the clinical situation, is more effective.
”张玉蛟认为，现在应该考虑，在核酸检测没有确诊的情况下，将CT影像结果结合病人的临床典型症状，如发热、呼吸困难等，以及病人的接触史、旅游史，作为临床诊断的主要标准，能帮助医生更快地作出诊断判断。
Zhang said it was time to consider combining CT findings with typical clinical symptoms such as fever, dyspnea and a patient's history of exposure and travel as key criteria for clinical diagnosis in the absence of a diagnosis of nucleic acid testing.
“只有这样才能杜绝漏网的病患，才能更有效地防控疫情。
"Only in this way can we stop the disease from escaping and more effectively control it.
”不过，张玉蛟也提到，“依靠影像诊断，没有用核酸检测核实，也会存在误诊的可能。
However, Zhang also mentioned that "misidentification may also exist, depending on imaging diagnosis and without nucleic acid testing."
因为有的其他病毒性肺炎，症状和影像表现可能与新冠肺炎有部分重叠。
Because of some other viral pneumonia, symptoms and imaging findings may partially overlap with those of new crown pneumonia.
但这没关系，即便是重叠，将这些感染性疾病病人隔离起来，给他们支持性治疗，也没有错误。
But that doesn't matter, and even if it does overlap, there is nothing wrong with isolating patients with these infectious diseases and giving them supportive treatment.
”2月5日下午，张笑春给本刊记者发来短信，国家卫健委当天刚刚发布的《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的诊疗方案（试行第五版）》，将“疑似病例具备肺炎影像特征者作为当前湖北省重疫区临床诊断病例标准”。
"February 5 afternoon, Zhang Xiaochun sent a text message to the print reporter, the National Health Commission just released the" new coronavirus infection of pneumonia diagnosis and treatment (trial version 5), "suspected cases of pneumonia imaging characteristics as the current Hubei Province SARS patients as the clinical diagnosis of the case.
该诊疗方案在“疑似病例”和“确诊病例”之外新增了一个“临床诊断病例”，并将“疑似病例具备肺炎影像特征者”作为其诊断标准（只限于湖北省之内），这也意味着CT影像结果成为了“临床诊断病例”的判定依据。
The program adds a new "clinical diagnosis" to "suspected cases" and "confirmed cases," and uses "suspected case characteristics of pneumonia" as its diagnostic criteria (limited to Hubei Province only), which means that CT images become the basis for "clinical diagnosis cases."
（王晖、吴芳为化名）作者档案张从志想吃碗热干面26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@Czz_lifeweek王珊喜欢阳光，喜欢晒太阳，最近喜欢易建联。
Zhang Cong-zhi wants to eat a bowl of hot-and-dry noodles 26 minutes ago, Lifestyle Weekly's personal blog: @ Czzz _ lifeek Wang Shan likes sunshine, likes sunshine and recently likes Yi Jianlian.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@小笨走走停请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
26 minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo @ Stupid Walk Stop Poking! Triple Life Weekly New Crown Pneumonia Series Article Copyright of Three Lives Weekly, welcome to our friends circle, please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
张从志。
Zhang Congzhi.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
抗击新冠：CT结果将纳入诊断标准。
Fight New Crown: CT results will be included in the diagnostic criteria.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "抗击新冠：CT结果将纳入诊断标准";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Fighting New Crown: CT results will be included at diagnostic standard & quot;;.
var msg_desc = "“武汉作为疫区无法在现阶段完全依赖核酸检测去筛查病人”";。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
