应对COVID-19（新冠病毒）：各国政府严控，市场有所放松。
Coping with COVID-19 (New Crown Virus): Governments have tightened controls and markets have eased.
金焱。
Yan, Jin.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
市场反馈认为，公共卫生事件对经济的影响有限；在应对疫情的关键时刻，政治和金融市场应对疫情展示出截然不同的态度文 |《财经》特派记者金焱发自华盛顿编辑 | 苏琦2月11日，世界卫生组织通过社交媒体推特发布其确定的新型冠状病毒引发疾病的英文名称：COVID-19(2019年冠状病毒病），其中COVI是冠状病毒英文缩写，D是英文疾病一词的首个字母，2019年代表疫情暴发的年份。
Market feedback says public health events have had a limited impact on the economy. Political and financial markets responded to the outbreak with a very different attitude. On February 11, the World Health Organization (WHO) posted its new coronavirus-related illness, COVID-19 (2019 coronavirus disease) on social media Twitter.
在中国，这一病毒被简称为“新冠病毒”。
In China, the virus has been abbreviated as the New Crown Virus.
世界卫生组织在该推文中表示：“根据世卫组织与世界动物卫生组织和粮农组织之间商定的准则，我们必须找到一个不涉及地理位置、动物、个人或人群的名称，这一名称应易于发音，并且与该疾病有关。
"According to the guidelines agreed between WHO and the World Organization for Animal Health and FAO, we must find a name that does not refer to geographical location, animals, individuals or groups of people and that should be easy to pronounce and be associated with the disease."
”推文还说：“拥有一个名称很重要，可以防止使用其他可能不准确或带有耻辱的名称。
"It is important to have a name that prevents the use of other names that may be inaccurate or humiliating," the tweets added.
这也为我们提供了一种标准格式，可用于将来发生的任何冠状病毒疫情。
This also provides us with a standard format for any future coronavirus outbreak.
”世界卫生组织发言人沙伊布当天在日内瓦表示，对冠状病毒的了解仍处于早期阶段，现在还不完全清楚这一病毒的潜伏期会持续多久。
WHO spokesman Jean-Claude Shaib said the coronavirus is still in its early stages and it is not fully clear how long the virus will remain dormant.
参加日内瓦研究与创新论坛的专家将用两天的时间讨论疫情的这一方面和其他许多问题。
Experts at the Geneva Research and Innovation Forum will spend two days discussing this and many other aspects of the epidemic.
根据世界卫生组织收到的报告，截止2月10日24时，全球确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎病例43119例，死亡1018例。
According to reports received by the World Health Organization, as of 2400 hours on February 10, 43119 new cases of coronavirus pneumonia had been confirmed worldwide, with 1,018 deaths.
另据中国方面的最新统计，截至2月12日上午8时，全国31个省（自治区、直辖市）和新疆生产建设兵团报告，累积确诊新型冠状病毒肺炎44512例，疑似病例21675例，治愈4650例，死亡1113人。
According to the latest statistics, by 8 a.m. on February 12, 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps had reported a cumulative total of 44512 confirmed cases of new coronavirus pneumonia, 21,675 suspected cases, 4,650 cases cured and 1,113 deaths.
在应对疫情的关键时刻，世卫组织希望各方在政治、财政和科学上展示团结精神。
At this critical juncture in the response to the epidemic, WHO hopes for political, financial and scientific solidarity.
在现实世界中，政治和金融市场应对疫情展示出截然不同的态度。
In the real world, politics and financial markets are showing very different attitudes to the epidemic.
一些国家陆续从撤侨人员中发现武汉肺炎确诊病例。
Some countries have found cases of confirmed pneumonia in Wuhan among evacuees.
美国疾病控制和预防中心2月10日表示，美国第13起2019新冠病毒肺炎确诊病例出现在加州，这名女性患者从中国湖北武汉撤离返回美国，目前在接受联邦当局的隔离治疗。
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Tuesday that the 13th confirmed case of 2019 new crown pneumonia in the United States occurred in California. The woman, who had been evacuated from Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, is being treated in isolation by federal authorities.
日本也证实，从武汉撤出的日本公民中又新增两例新冠肺炎确诊病例。
Japan also confirmed two new cases of confirmed cases of new crown pneumonia among Japanese citizens evacuated from Wuhan.
日本至今派出的4架撤侨包机，已经有12人确诊感染。
Japan so far sent four charter flights to evacuate overseas Chinese, 12 people have been confirmed infected.
无论是美国还是日本的新增病例，均为返回本国时检测结果是阴性，但近日的检测结果则对新冠病毒呈阳性反应。
New cases, both in the United States and Japan, were negative when they returned to their home countries, but recent tests were positive for the new crown virus.
泰国2月11日又增加1名确诊病例，患者是一名来自武汉的54岁女性，泰国目前有33例确诊病例，其中10人已经康复，其余23人则在医院接受隔离治疗。
Thailand added another confirmed case on February 11, with a 54-year-old woman from Wuhan. Thailand now has 33 confirmed cases, of which 10 have recovered and the remaining 23 are being treated in isolation in hospitals.
围绕新冠肺炎诊断的不确定性仍然存在，其潜伏期的长短尚无定论的前提下，一些国家的政府官员选择采用更严格的管理。
Government officials in some countries have opted for stricter regulation on the premise that uncertainty still surrounds the diagnosis of new crown pneumonia and that its incubation period is uncertain.
泰国卫生部长2月11日表示，泰国已经禁止荷美游轮公司的“威士特丹号”(MS Westerdam ) 停靠曼谷港口，尽管截至目前这艘游轮上的2200人没有发现感染新冠病毒的病例。
Thailand has banned Dutch cruise ship MS Westerdam from calling at Bangkok's port, the Health Minister said on Tuesday, although 2,200 people on board the cruise ship have not been found to have contracted the virus.
“威士特丹”号上的2200人包括1455名乘客和802名船员。
The 2,200 people on board the Rotterdam include 1455 passengers and 802 crew members.
这艘游轮原计划前往上海，由于新冠病毒的爆发，不得不改变航线。
The ship, which had planned to sail to Shanghai, had to change course because of the outbreak of the new crown virus.
泰国副总理兼卫生部长阿努廷·参威拉军（Anutin Charnvirakul）当天在脸书帖文说：“我已经发布命令，不准进港。
Anutin Charnvirakul, Thailand's deputy prime minister and health minister, said in a Facebook post on the same day: "I have issued an order not to enter the port.
”泰国交通部副部长阿提拉（Atirat Ratanasate）也在脸书发文表示，虽然这艘游轮不被获准停靠，但是泰国“很乐意帮助向这艘船提供燃料、药品和食物”。
Atirat Ratanasate, Thailand's deputy transport minister, also wrote on Facebook that while the cruise ship was not allowed to dock, Thailand was "happy to help provide fuel, medicine and food to the ship."
此前，嘉年华公司旗下的另一艘游轮“钻石公主”号在日本横滨港被隔离，船上135人被确诊感染了新冠病毒。
Earlier, Carnival's other cruise ship, Princess Diamond, was quarantined in Yokohama, Japan, where 135 people were diagnosed with the new Crown virus.
被泰国拒绝停靠之前，因为担心新冠病毒蔓延，“威士特丹号”已经被日本、台湾、关岛和菲律宾在内的几个港口拒绝停靠。
Worried about the spread of the new crown virus, Rotterdam has been denied access to several ports, including Japan, Taiwan, Guam and the Philippines, before being refused permission to stop by Thailand.
2月12日在向美国国会作证时，美联储主席鲍威尔表示，最近以来，有关国际形势的一些不确定因素有所减少，但经济前景面临的风险依然存在。
In testimony to the United States Congress on 12 February, United States Federal Reserve Chairman Colin Powell stated that while some uncertainties about the international situation had recently diminished, risks to the economic outlook remained.
鲍威尔表示，美联储正密切关注中国的冠状病毒疫情，这可能对全球经济造成冲击，但目前评估对美国经济的影响还为时过早。
Powell said the Federal Reserve was closely watching China's coronavirus outbreak, which could have an impact on the global economy, but it was too early to assess the impact on the US economy.
他说：“今年上半年的某些时候，中国、中国的近邻、中国在欧洲和亚洲的主要贸易伙伴都会受到影响。
"For some time in the first half of this year, China, its immediate neighbours, its major trading partners in Europe and Asia will be affected," he said.
我们知道，这很可能会对美国产生一些影响。
We know that this is likely to have some impact on the United States.
不过我认为现在下结论还为时过早。
But I think it's too early to tell.
”美东时间2月12日，美股涨跌不一，三大股指盘中均刷新历史新高，截止收盘，道指基本收平，纳指涨0.11%，标普500指数涨0.17%，纳指、标普续创新高。
On Feb. 12, U.S. stocks were mixed, with all three indexes reaching record highs, with the Dow up 0.11% and the S & P 500 up 0.17% by the close of trading.
市场反馈认为，公共卫生事件对经济的影响有限。
Market feedback suggests that public health events have a limited impact on the economy.
当天有消息称，“冠状病毒威胁将引发美国住房市场大规模崩溃”，对此数位接受《财经》记者采访的美国专家表示不宜采信。
"The coronavirus threat will trigger a massive collapse of the housing market in the United States," sources said on the day, adding that U.S. experts interviewed by Caijing said it would not be acceptable.
房地产资本分析公司Real Capital Analytics高级副总裁吉姆·科斯特洛(Jim Costello)对《财经》记者表示，从他所掌握的情况来看，上述说法有为制造轰动效应而耸人听闻之嫌。
Jim Costello, senior vice president of Real Capital Analytics, a real estate capital analysis firm, told Caijing that from what he knew, the claims were sensational.
据统计，2019年第四季度，美国房屋价格同比上涨9%左右。
In the fourth quarter of 2019, U.S. home prices rose about 9% year-on-year.
2019年12月美国房屋开工年率升至13年高位，因整体活动增加，表明房屋市场在抵押贷款利率较低的情况下已回到复苏轨道。
The annual rate of housing starts in the United States rose to a 13-year high in December 2019 as overall activity increased, suggesting that the housing market was back on track with low mortgage rates.
此前的数据显示，美国2019年12月零售销售连续第三个月增长，而美国大西洋沿岸中部地区1月制造业活动指数反弹至8个月来最高水平。
Previous figures showed retail sales rose for the third consecutive month in December 2019, while manufacturing activity in the mid-Atlantic region rebounded to its highest level in eight months in January.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
应对COVID-19（新冠病毒）：各国政府严控，市场有所放松。
Coping with COVID-19 (New Crown Virus): Governments have tightened controls and markets have eased.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "金融财经";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Financial & Finance & quot;;
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "应对COVID-19（新冠病毒）：各国政府严控，市场有所放松";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Responding to COVID-19: Rigorous government control and relaxed & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "市场反馈认为，公共卫生事件对经济的影响有限；在应对疫情的关键时刻，政治和金融市场应对疫情展示出截然不同的态度";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; market feedback that public health events have had a limited impact on the economy; and that the political and financial markets responded with a very different attitude and response to the epidemic at a critical time.
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
