香港抗疫实录：一公屋两住户先后确诊，未密闭排气管疑似传播。
Hong Kong Anti-epidemic Record: a public housing two households have been diagnosed, unsealed exhaust pipe suspected transmission.
焦建。
Jiao Jian.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
初步调查显示：第二个确诊案例居住的房间内粪渠与排气管相连，排气管没有密封虽香港尚未进行社区封闭，各种人多密集场所也并未暂停营业。
A preliminary investigation revealed that the second confirmed case involved a room with a drainpipe connected to the exhaust pipe, which was not sealed. Although Hong Kong had not been closed to the community, various crowded places were not suspended.
但人们在外出活动时，已非常注意彼此相隔更长距离。
But when people go out to work, they are very careful not to travel long distances.
文|《财经》特派香港记者焦建编辑 | 苏琦2月11日晨间3时37分，中国香港特区政府卫生署卫生防护中心（下简称防护中心）发布消息称：为阻截（新型冠状）病毒进一步扩散的潜在风险，该中心正在积极跟进“康美楼”两宗新型冠状病毒感染确诊个案。
At 3: 37 a.m. on February 11, the Centre for Health Protection (CHP) of the Department of Health of the Hong Kong SAR Government of China (CHP) announced that it was actively following up on two confirmed cases of coronavirus infection at Kangmei Tower in order to interdict the potential risk of further spread of the virus.
作为公共房屋的康美楼于1986年建成，位于香港青衣区长康邨（音“村”，香港多指“社区”意思）内。
Completed in 1986, Kam Mei House, a public housing development, is located in Hong Kong's Tsing Yi District, Kang Tsuen (Yin "village," more commonly referred to as "community").
2月10日时，在该楼内居住的一名62岁女性被确诊为香港第42例新型冠状病毒感染者；1月30日时，香港确诊的第12例新型冠状病毒感染者同样居住在该楼内。
On February 10, a 62-year-old woman living in the building was confirmed to be the 42nd person infected with the new coronary virus in Hong Kong.
两名确诊者居住在不同楼层，女患者房间位于低层，分别为A1307及A307房间，同属于同一座（单元）内的07号单位。
The two confirmed persons live on different floors. The rooms for the female patients are located on the lower floor in rooms A1307 and A307 respectively, belonging to Unit 07 in the same unit.
经相关初步调查显示：第二个确诊案例所居住的房间内粪渠（排污管道）与排气管相连，而排气管没有密封。
A preliminary investigation revealed that the second confirmed case involved a room with a septic tank (drain) connected to the exhaust pipe, which was not sealed.
2月11日0点45分左右时，多位参与初步调查的相关人士召开新闻发布会透露相关情况。
On February 11 around 0045, a number of participants in the preliminary investigation held a press conference to disclose the relevant information.
中国香港特区政府环境局副局长谢展寰称：目前发现两个患者的单位内的U型聚水器没有问题（其设计与厨房洗碗盆或厕所洗手盆接驳，只要使用洗手盘就不会让隔气位置干涸）。
Under Secretary for the Environment, Hong Kong SAR Government, Tse Chin-wan, said: "We have found no problems with the U-shaped water accumulators in the units of two patients (they are designed to connect to the kitchen sink or the toilet sink, so long as the hand-washing dishes do not dry up the isolation area).
进一步调查则会包括两例个案是否与楼宇设计及保养有关，会由工程师去检查整座大厦同一单位的排气管是否全部都密封。
Further investigation will include whether the two cases are related to the design and maintenance of the building. The engineer will check whether all the exhaust pipes of the same building are sealed.
参与初步调查的香港大学微生物学系讲座教授袁国勇则指出：大厦同一座数的单位共用粪渠，而粪渠排气管会驳入室内。
Professor Yuan Guoyong of the Department of Microbiology of the University of Hong Kong, who participated in the preliminary investigation, pointed out that the same number of flats in the building share a cesspool, and the manure sewers will be barged indoors.
女患者房间内的排气管没有完全（用相关材料使其）密封，开抽气时粪渠空气可以进入室内，不排除病毒由此进入（的可能性）。
The exhaust pipe in the woman's room is not completely sealed (with the relevant material), and the fecal air can enter the room when the air is pumped, so the virus is not ruled out.
“（新型冠状）病毒的传播途径未完全清楚……会不会可以经特别情况下，可以空气传染？”袁国勇表示，病毒传播的可能性包括包括飞沫、接触传播或空气传染。
"The route of transmission of the virus is not entirely clear... can it be transmitted by air under special circumstances?" Yuan said the possibility of transmission included droplets, contact transmission or air-borne transmission.
但他也强调：康美楼暂时看来并非2003年非典时期淘大花园E座（经U型聚水器传播病毒致使多人染病）的翻版。
But he also stressed that Kangmei House is not, for the time being, a replica of the SARS-era Estee, which spread the virus through the U-shaped water catchment and made many people ill.
《财经》此前有相关报道称：2003年3月时，香港淘大花园E座内居民共有329人感染，42人死亡。
In March 2003, 329 people were infected and 42 died in Amoy Garden, Hong Kong, according to Caijing.
中国香港特区政府随后发布的调查报告显示：淘大出现大规模传播，相信是有带病毒的粪便进入污水渠后，由于单位U形聚水器干涸无法隔气，病毒于是随管道的气流游走，成功透过气流进入住宅造成大爆发。
According to a subsequent investigation report released by the Hong Kong SAR Government, Taobao spread widely, believing that infected feces entered the sewer. Since the unit U-shaped water accumulator dried up and could not be isolated, the virus swam away with the air from the pipes and succeeded in entering the house through the air stream, causing a major explosion.
而世界卫生组织的报告则指出：淘大花园E座的不寻常爆发可能与浴室抽气扇的设计相关，有机会将浴室内的飞沫带到天井，或从有裂缝的排污渠处抽进浴室，导致相隔数层的住户感染病毒。
The World Health Organization report says the unusual eruption of Amoy Garden Block E may be related to the design of a bathroom fan, providing an opportunity to bring droplets from the bathroom to the patio or to pump them into the bathroom from a cracked sewer, causing the virus to infect households several stories apart.
因吸取淘大花园“疫劫”教训，中国香港特区的多个家居清洁及消毒指引当中，都会强调要妥善保养排水渠管和定期把约半公升的清水注入每一排水口（U型隔气口）。
Drawing on the lessons learned from the Amoy Garden, various guidelines on household cleaning and disinfection in the Hong Kong SAR of China emphasize proper maintenance of drains and regular injections of about half a litre of water into each outlet (U-shaped traps).
此外，如厕时亦要先将厕板盖后再冲厕水，以免散播病菌等。
In addition, the toilet should be covered before flushing toilet water, so as not to spread germs and so on.
但对于相关业界提出的在建筑物条例中加入分隔粪渠及废水渠、高低层分隔排水渠等建议内容，目前仍未完全执行。
However, the recommendations made by the relevant industries to include sewers and sewers and high and low sewers in the Buildings Ordinance have not yet been fully implemented.
而在近期内蒙古的新型冠状病毒感染病例中，曾出现过“无外出、无接触史，住在确诊病例楼上感染”的例子。
In the recent case of the new coronavirus infection in Inner Mongolia, there have been "no external, no contact history, living in confirmed cases upstairs infection."
据新华网消息，2月3日，鄂尔多斯市达拉特旗疫情防控指挥部进行情况通报时称：经达拉特旗疾控部门对该旗第4例确诊病例白某某组织流行病学调查发现，其系该旗首例确诊病例宋某楼上住户，宋某家门窗经常敞开、门口经常有生活垃圾堆放。
According to Xinhua News Agency, on February 3, 2000, the Dalat Banner Outbreak Control Command in Ordos City briefed the group: After the disease control department of the Dalat flag confirmed the 4th case of this flag, the epidemiological investigation found that it is the first confirmed case of the flag above Song floor.
期间白某某一家多次上下楼梯经过宋某家。
During the so-called family went up and down the stairs several times song a house.
王某与宋某一家有接触史，与白某某及妻子张某某有长时间的密切接触史。
Wang and Song have a history of contact with a long history of close contact with his wife Zhang and so on.
达拉特旗疫情防控指挥部通报称，根据上述情况分析，不排除宋某是白某某夫妇、王某感染新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎的源头，有关专家仍在进一步调查核实中。
According to the above analysis, experts are still investigating whether Song Mou is the source of pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus, said Dharat Flag Command.
目前“康美楼”的传染链条并未最终定论。
At present, the "Kangmei tower" infection chain is not conclusive.
在相关消息公布后，已有不少香港市民表示担心，“之前以为注意家里的各种隔气渠道内注意倒水即可，现在才发现有可能需要注意的地方还有很多，（病毒）简直防不胜防。
After the announcement, many people in Hong Kong have expressed concern that "previously we thought we should pay attention to emptying the water in various air-tight channels in our home, but now we see that there are many places to pay attention to."
”亦有香港建筑测量界人士近期特别公开提醒称：当下千万不要向排水渠内倒入热水。
Some Hong Kong building surveyors recently made a special public warning: Never pour hot water into drains.
平时这么做可以预防蚊虫滋生，但因为目前处于病毒传播时期，如渠内有病毒，热水可能会产生雾化，反倒使得病毒挥发进入室内。
This prevents mosquitoes from breeding, but because of the virus's current spread, such as the presence of viruses in canals, hot water can create fog, which in turn can cause the virus to volatilize indoors.
从2月11日凌晨左右开始，康美楼全幢1至35楼07单位的30多个家庭、约100名居民开始紧急疏散，分别乘坐多辆旅游巴士前往指定地点，即香港已启用的四个检疫中心（麦理浩夫人度假村、鲤鱼门公园度假村、北潭涌度假营，以及饶宗颐文化馆内刚刚启用的翠雅山房）。
Starting from the early morning of February 11, more than 30 families and about 100 residents of 07 flats on the 1st to 35th floor of Kom Mei House began to evacuate. They travelled by coach to designated locations, namely the four Quarantine Centres (Lady MacLehose Holiday Village, Lei Yue Mun Park Resort, Pak Tam Chung Holiday Camp and the recently opened Tsz Tam Chung House).
有该居住区内其他楼栋的居民对《财经》记者表示：早上7点左右开始，有大批相关人员身穿保护衣物抵达康美楼进行消毒工作，此外该楼下亦有警车及防暴警员将整座楼的外围封锁。
Residents of other buildings in the residential area told Caijing that a large number of people wearing protective clothing had arrived at the Kangmei Building for disinfection since around 7 a.m., and police cars and riot police had blocked off the perimeter of the building.
为应对新型冠状病毒疫情持续扩散，中国香港特区政府水务署近日在食水中增加氯气含量，经处理食水的余氯含量由每公升1毫克升至约每公升1.2毫克，以加强保障食水在输送和贮存过程中保持清洁卫生。
In response to the continued spread of the new coronavirus, the Water Supplies Department of the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region has recently increased the chlorine content of treated water from 1 mg / litre to about 1.2 mg / litre to enhance the hygiene and cleanliness of fresh water during transmission and storage.
中国香港特区政府食卫局局长陈肇始近日亦再呼吁市民保持合适的社交距离，并强烈劝喻戏院、卡拉OK、会所、补习社等人多密集场所的营运者暂停营业，表示未来两周将是抗疫关键。
The Secretary for Food and Health of the Hong Kong SAR Government, Mr Chan Siu-wai, has also recently appealed to the public to maintain an appropriate social distance and strongly advised operators of crowded venues such as theatres, karaoke bars, clubs and cram shops to suspend business for the next two weeks.
她指出：全港十八区不会封闭，市民留在家中已是减低传播的封闭方法。
She pointed out that the 18 districts in Hong Kong would not be closed. Staying at home was a closed way to reduce transmission.
截止2月11日中午12点《财经》记者发稿时：香港确诊的新型冠状病毒感染者增至42人，其中一名患者死亡。
As of 12: 00 noon Caijing on February 11, the number of people diagnosed with the new coronary virus in Hong Kong has increased to 42, with one patient dead.
在接受强制检疫的1100多人中，有9人违反检疫令，其中2人失去联络。
Nine of the more than 1,100 people under compulsory quarantine violated quarantine orders, and two of them lost contact.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
香港抗疫实录：一公屋两住户先后确诊，未密闭排气管疑似传播。
Hong Kong Anti-epidemic Record: a public housing two households have been diagnosed, unsealed exhaust pipe suspected transmission.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "香港抗疫实录：一公屋两住户先后确诊，未密闭排气管疑似传播";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Hong Kong's anti-epidemic record: Two public housing households were diagnosed with unsealed exhaust pipes suspected of having AT & quot;;;
var msg_desc = "初步调查显示：第二个确诊案例居住的房间内粪渠与排气管相连，排气管没有密封";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; A preliminary investigation showed that the second confirmed case involved a room with a septic tank connected to the exhaust pipe, which was not sealed or quot;;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
