疫情带来六大影响，中国芯片和消费电子行业积极自救。
The epidemic has six major implications, with the Chinese chip and consumer electronics industries actively helping themselves.
周源 陈潇潇。
Zhou Yuan Chen Xiaoxiao.
财经杂志                      。
Financial magazine.
财经杂志。
Financial magazine.
《财经》杂志官方微信。
An official letter from Caijing magazine.
《财经》杂志由中国证券市场研究中心主办，1998年创刊，秉承“独立、独家、独到”的新闻理念，以权威性、公正性、专业性报道见长，是政经学界决策者、研究者、管理者的必读刊物。
"Caijing" magazine, sponsored by the China Securities Market Research Center, was founded in 1998, upholding the news concept of "independence, exclusivity and originality," and providing authoritative, impartial and professional reports.
。
.
_疫情首先冲击劳动密集型的电子组装制造工厂，引发供应链上的各种连锁反应，可能在短期内延缓中国电子信息制造产业飞奔的脚步，政府、行业协会和企业应需要多种形式的互助和自救_文|《财经》记者周源 陈潇潇编辑 |谢丽容划重点：1. 芯片制造产线普遍不停工，一旦彻底停工，再复工需重新经历各种精密仪器调试的严峻挑战，对产能的伤害很大，不停工的另一个原因是，芯片产线高度洁净，病毒感染风险较低。
The outbreak initially hit labour-intensive electronics assembly plants, triggering chain reactions along the supply chain that may slow down the rapid pace of China's electronic information manufacturing industry in the short term. Governments, industry associations and companies should require multiple forms of mutual assistance and self-help.
2. 疫情对芯片设计企业影响不大，以研发人员为主，可远程办公，虽然整体进度变缓，但只要企业现金流不错，就无大碍。
2. The epidemic has little impact on chip design enterprises, mainly R & D personnel, telecommuting, although the overall progress has slowed, but as long as the company's cash flow is good, there is no major impediment.
3. 整个芯片产业链上，只有封测企业较为偏向于劳动密集型企业，将面临一定的“复工难”。
3. The whole chip industry chain, only the sealing enterprises are more labor-intensive enterprises, will face a certain degree of "back to work."
4. 组装类企业受影响较大，富士康母公司鸿海精密已下调2020年营收增长预期。
4. Assembled companies have been more affected, and Foxconn's parent, Hon Hai Precision, has lowered its revenue growth forecast for 2020.
公司预计今年营收将增长1%至3%，低于鸿海在1月22日预计的3%至5%，也不及分析师平均预计的5.4%。
Revenue is expected to grow 1% to 3% this year, below Hon Hai's forecast of 3% to 5% on January 22, and below analysts' average of 5.4%.
5. 电子消费终端企业最担心的是供应链上下游延迟复工，或将延期投产；物流速度降低，甚至可能出现停运；产品入关检查的时间和财务成本或增加，为海外销售业务带来挑战。
5. The main concerns of e-consumer end-users are delays or delays in starting operations upstream and downstream of the supply chain; lower logistics speeds and possible outages; and the timing and financial costs of product entry inspections, which pose challenges for overseas sales operations.
6. 疫情这会导致供应链的转移吗？短期不会。
6. Does the outbreak lead to supply chain diversion? Not in the short term.
比如，从当前消费电子产品的全球供应链资源分布情况来看，国内全链条制造资源的丰富和完善程度全球领先，具备非常强的竞争力。
For example, from the current distribution of global supply chain resources of consumer electronics products, the domestic full chain manufacturing resources rich and perfect degree of global leadership, has a very strong competitiveness.
2月10日，除了湖北，全国其他城市迎来复工。
February 10, in addition to Hubei, other cities across the country usher in the resumption of work.
北京中关村软件园发展有限公司的张露（化名）须早上8点半赶到公司。
Zhang Lu (alias) of Beijing Zhongguancun Software Park Development Co. Ltd must arrive at the company at 8: 30 in the morning.
当她驾车途径通往中关村软件园的后厂村路时，发现这条“以堵著称”的路出现了难得一见的车少人稀，这是疫情所致，张露宁愿重新回到后厂村路堵车的日子。
As she drove down the back factory road to Zhongguancun Software Park, she found that the "well-known" road had fewer cars and fewer people, which was caused by the epidemic.
后厂村路之南的中关村软件园是北京著名的高新技术园区，云集了腾讯、百度、网易、联想、IBM、科大讯飞等众多中外高科技企业，在园从业软件工程师超过8万人。
Zhongguancun Software Park is a famous high-tech park in Beijing. It is home to many Chinese and foreign high-tech enterprises such as Tencent, Baidu, Netease, Lenovo, IBM, HKUST and so on.
张露拿到了园区物业当天统计的入园区人数。
Zhang Lu got the park property statistics on the same day the number of people.
“互联网公司基本都采取在家办公，所以今天来园区上班的只有2600多人，”她说。
"Internet companies are basically home-based, so only about 2,600 people are here today," she said.
科技企业，尤其互联网公司和软件研发型企业，由于可以远程办公，受疫情影响不大，但这只是电子信息制造业的一小部分企业，到目前为止，疫情对整个中国电子产业的冲击还未完全显露出来。
Technology companies, particularly Internet companies and software R & D companies, are less affected by the epidemic because they can telecommute, but this is only a small part of the electronic information industry. So far, the impact of the epidemic on China's electronics industry has not been fully apparent.
电子信息制造是关系到国计民生的基础型产业。
Electronic information manufacturing is a basic industry related to people's livelihood.
2018年，中国经济总量超过90万亿，其中，中国电子制造业与软件业收入规模合计超过16万亿元，电子制造业收入规模10.6万亿元。
In 2018, China's economy totaled more than 90 trillion yuan, including more than 16 trillion yuan in electronics and software, and 10.6 trillion yuan in electronics.
中国电子供应链已深入全球，全世界90%的手机、90%的计算机，以及70%以上的彩电等设备均“Made in China”，全球产业链同此凉热，一些外国公司如苹果已经将2020第一季度iPhone的出货量下调10%。
With 90% of mobile phones, 90% of computers and more than 70% of color TV sets around the world, China's electronic supply chain is cooling, with foreign companies such as Apple cutting shipments of iPhones by 10% in the first quarter of 2020.
《财经》记者综合调查结果显示，电子制造产业链不同位置的企业，受影响程度和抗风险能力大不相同。
"Caijing" reporters comprehensive survey results, the electronics manufacturing industry chain at different locations, the impact of the impact and anti-risk capacity vary greatly.
处于电子制造业上游的企业，通常是技术密集型企业，甚至是技术、资本双密集型企业。
Enterprises located upstream in electronics manufacturing are usually technology-intensive and even technology and capital-intensive.
这意味着，这些上游企业以研发人员为主，能在一定程度实现远程办公，有些企业即便拥有产线，产线上的智能化程度较高，一线工人数量较少，此外，通常这些企业现金流较为充沛，整体抗风险能力较强。
This means that these upstream enterprises are mainly R & D personnel and can telecommute to a certain extent. Some enterprises, even if they have production lines, have higher intelligence on the production line and fewer front-line workers. In addition, these enterprises are usually cash-rich and generally more risk-resistant.
但中下游存在不少劳动力密集型电子制造企业。
But there are many labor-intensive electronic manufacturing enterprises in midstream and downstream.
为了控制疫情，各地政府采取了很多隔离、限制流动和避免人员聚集的措施，这些劳动密集型制造企业或因不具备复工条件难以开工，即便复工也可能因返工工人不足导致产能不足，并且，它们大多为中小型企业，抗风险能力较弱。
In order to control the epidemic, Governments have taken a number of measures to isolate, restrict movement and avoid the build-up of labour-intensive manufacturing enterprises, which are either unable to start work because they do not have the conditions to return to work, which may result in insufficient capacity owing to a shortage of reworkers, and are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises with low risk resistance.
此外，部分电子产品，尤其面向个人用户的消费电子产品，短期销售必然下滑。
In addition, some electronic products, especially consumer electronics for individual users, short-term sales are bound to decline.
总之，各种连锁反应短期有可能会延缓中国电子制造产业飞奔的“脚步”，需要引起地方政府和行业协会的重视，也需要企业采取更多积极自救和互救措施。
In a word, the short-term ripple effects may slow down the rapid development of China's electronics manufacturing industry. It needs to arouse the attention of local governments and trade associations, and enterprises need to take more active measures to save themselves and each other.
伤“芯” 有限芯片是电子设备最核心的元器件。
Injury "core" finite chip is the most important component of electronic equipment.
尽管中国每年会大量进口芯片（2018年芯片进口额超过3000亿美元），但同时在大力发展本土芯片产业。
While China imports a large amount of chips each year (more than $300bn in 2018), it is also aggressively developing its own chip industry.
中国半导体协会数据显示，2018年中国芯片产业销售额达到了6532亿元人民币，2009-2018年的年复合增长率（CAGR）为16.84%。
According to the China Semiconductor Association, China's chip industry sales reached 653.2 billion yuan in 2018, with a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 16.84 percent in 2009-2018.
当疫情爆发时，位于武汉东湖高新区的长江存储科技有限公司立刻引起芯片行业人士的高度关注。
When the outbreak occurred, the Changjiang River Storage Technology Co. Ltd. located in Wuhan Donghu Hi-tech District immediately aroused the attention of the chip industry.
长江存储是紫光集团旗下子公司，成立于2016年7月，专注于3D闪存芯片研发与制造，是中国致力于存储芯片国产化的主要公司之一，目前中国存储芯片的国产化比例几乎为0，长江存储等一些本土存储芯片厂商的任务是突破这个“0”。
Founded in July 2016, the company specializes in the development and manufacture of 3D flash chips. It is one of the leading companies in China dedicated to the localization of memory chips, which currently account for almost 0% of the total. Some local memory chip manufacturers, such as Changjiang Storage, are tasked with breaking through the zero mark.
2019年9月，长江存储宣布64层3D闪存实现量产，目前正处于产能爬坡的关键阶段。
In September 2019, Yangtze River Storage announced a 64-storey 3-D flash memory for mass production, which is now at a critical stage of capacity ramp-up.
更重要的是，芯片制造产线通常365天不停工，一旦彻底停工，再复工需重新经历各种精密仪器调试的严峻挑战，对产能的伤害很大。
More importantly, the chip manufacturing line usually does not stop for 365 days, and once shut down completely, the resumption of work will have to go through the serious challenges of fine instrument commissioning, which can be very damaging to production capacity.
长江存储会不会停工？原材料储备是否足够？往来物资如何运输？外界十分关心。
Will the Yangtze River store be shut down? Is the raw material reserve sufficient? How are the incoming and outgoing materials transported? The outside world is very concerned.
1月30日，长江存储1月30日发布公告称，目前生产经营正常有序进行，驻守在厂区的长存及厂商员工无感染病例，并采用分区隔离管控措施，避免外界病毒的带入。
On January 30, the Yangtze River Storage Company issued a notice on January 30, saying that production and operation were proceeding normally and orderly, with no cases of infection among employees of the factories and factories and adopting zoning control measures to prevent the introduction of foreign viruses.
不仅长江存储，据第三方机构CINNO Research供应链调查，武汉其他半导体晶圆厂如武汉新芯，以及联电苏州和舰厂、海力士无锡厂、华润微电子、中芯国际、华虹半导体、上海华力微、台积电南京厂与松江厂等主要华东地区半导体晶圆厂目前营运一切正常。
According to the investigation of the supply chain of CINNO Research, other semiconductor wafers in Wuhan and other semiconductor wafers such as Suzhou Liuzhou and Shipyard, Hynix Wuxi Factory, China Resources Microelectronics, SMIC International, Hua Hong Semiconductor, Shanghai Hua Li Wei, TSMC Nanjing Factory and Songjiang Factory are now operating normally.
需要说明的是，各大芯片制造厂不停工的另一个原因，因为芯片产线高度洁净，病毒感染风险较低。
Note that the major chip manufacturers do not stop another reason, because the chip production line is highly clean, the risk of virus infection is low.
除了芯片制造，芯片产业还包括设计和封测两大环节。
In addition to the chip manufacturing, the chip industry also includes design and sealing two links.
芯片设计公司瑞芯微电子副总裁陈峰告诉《财经》记者，和芯片制造一样，疫情目前对芯片设计企业影响也不大，因为以研发人员为主，可以远程办公，虽然整体进度变缓，但只要企业现金流不错，就无大碍。
Like chip makers, the epidemic is having little impact on chip design companies because research and development workers can work remotely, and while the overall pace is slowing, so long as the company's cash flow is good, Chen Feng, vice president of microelectronics for chip design, told Caijing.
陈峰表示，整个芯片产业链上，只有封测企业较为偏向于老董密集型企业，将面临一定的“复工难”四川明泰电子位于四川遂宁，是西南地区产销规模最大的集成电路封装测试企业。
Chen Feng said that the entire chip industry chain, only the sealing enterprises are more inclined to the old Dong-intensive enterprises, will face a certain "back-to-work difficulties" Sichuan Suining, Sichuan Province, is the largest production and marketing of integrated circuit packaging testing enterprises.
四川明泰电子总经理郑渠江接受媒体采访时称，正常时期工厂有将近400人，现在只有100多号人在上班，产能也只开起来四分之一左右，停工一个月直接损失为500万元，间接损失更多（该公司2019年税后净利润约2600万元左右）。
In a media interview, Zheng Du Jiang, Sichuan's general manager of Mintai Electronics, said that while the factory had nearly 400 people in normal times, only more than 100 people were at work, capacity was only about a quarter of capacity, and a month of shut-down was a direct loss of $5 million, with more indirect losses (the company's 2019 net after-tax profit was about $26 million).
不过，芯片行业是重点行业，芯片类公司大多能够得到当地政府不同程度的支持，大多能扛过疫情导致的短期用工荒。
But the chip industry is a key industry, and chip companies have mostly been able to get varying degrees of support from local governments, most of which have been able to cope with short-term labour shortages caused by the epidemic.
例如，郑渠江就透露，政府为其减免了1年左右的厂房租金，总金额约400万元左右。
Zheng Du Jiang, for example, revealed that the government reduced the rent for its plant by about a year, totaling about $4 million.
电子组装企业“慢”下来芯片只是基础元件之一，芯片只有跟其他元器件一起组装之后形成各种产品才能交付给用户，疫情持续期间的流程可能会出现一些“断点”。
Slow-down chips are just one of the basic components. They can only be delivered to users after they have been assembled with other components, and there may be "breakpoints" in the process during an epidemic.
PCB（Printed Circuit Board，印制电路板）行业可能“断点”之一。
The PCB (Printed Circuit Board) industry may be one of the "breakpoints."
图1 PCB板PCB是指在通用基材上按预定设计形成点间连接及印制元件的印制板。
Fig. 1 PCB PCB means a printed board on a general substrate that is designed to form interpoint connections and printing elements.
广泛应用于通信设备、计算机及网络设备、消费电子、 汽车电子、工业控制及医疗等多个行业。
Widely used in communications equipment, computer and network equipment, consumer electronics, automotive electronics, industrial control and medical and other industries.
实际上，要是有电路的地方，基本上都需要使用PCB，PCB被称为“电子产品之母”。
In fact, where there is a circuit, PCB is basically required, and PCB is called the "mother of electronic products."
美国电子市场调研机构Prismark数据显示，2017年全球PCB总产值达到588亿美元，其中，中国大陆PCB产值为297.32亿美元，占比超过五成。
Of the total global PCB production of $58.8 billion in 2017, mainland China's PCB production reached $29,732 million, or more than 50%, according to Prismark, an electronic market research firm.
但PCB行业行业存在一个特点，由于产品高度定制化，导致参与者众多，行业集成度非常低。
But PCB industry industry has a feature, because of the high customization of products, resulting in a large number of participants, industry integration is very low.
例如，全球第一大PCB厂商为中国台湾地区的臻鼎，2017年营收为35.88亿美元，全球市占率也仅为6.10%，而前十大 PCB 厂商的市占率合计也仅为33.51%。
For example, the world's largest PCB manufacturer is Zhen Ding in Taiwan, with $3.588 billion in 2017 and a global market share of 6.10%, compared with 33.51% for the top 10 PCB manufacturers combined.
这意味着，PCB都是以中小企业为主，抗风险能力普遍不高。
This means that the PCB are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, generally low risk resistance.
中国大量PCB公司主要集中在珠三角地区以及江苏昆山一带，但近年来有向湖北、江西、湖南等内陆省份转移的趋势。
A large number of PCB companies in China are mainly concentrated in the Pearl River Delta and Kunshan, Jiangsu Province, but in recent years there has been a trend of transfer to the inland provinces of Hubei, Jiangxi and Hunan.
数据显示，仅湖北地区PCB厂已经超过30家。
Data show that Hubei region alone PCB factory has more than 30.
深圳华秋电子有限公司CEO陈遂伯告诉《财经》记者，该公司有600名员工，目前只回来1/3的员工。
Chen Suibo, CEO of Shenzhen Huachuo Electronics Co., Ltd. told Caijing that the company has 600 employees and only one-third of them are now back.
而且各地街道办或者开发区要求非常严格，要实地检查，拿到批文才能开工，有些城市还明确表示开工一切问题都由企业承担，所以到该公司在江西九江分公司12日才正式复工，深圳分公司则还没拿到审批，还在等待复工。
However, some cities have made it clear that all the construction work will be undertaken by the enterprises. Therefore, the company will only resume work on the 12th at Jiujiang Branch of Jiangxi Province, while the Shenzhen branch has not yet received the approval and is waiting to resume work.
陈遂伯还透露，尽管下游终端客户对订单延期交付现象都表现包容、理解的态度，暂未出现影响较大的违约赔偿风险。
Chen Suibo also revealed that although the downstream end-users are tolerant and understanding of the phenomenon of late delivery of orders, there is no greater risk of default compensation.
但是，由于生产交期受到影响且客户对订单安全保障产生较大顾虑，相比往年，目前国内外市场订单已经整体出现明显的下滑趋势，很多客户已经选择把订单转移到未受疫情殃及的国家进行加工生产。
However, due to the impact of production delivery and customers are more concerned about the safety of orders, compared to previous years, the domestic and foreign market orders have shown a clear downward trend, many customers have chosen to transfer orders to non-affected countries for processing production.
受复工难困扰电子产品组装企业中，富士康或许是知名度最高的公司之一。
Foxconn is perhaps one of the best-known companies in electronics assembly companies struggling to get back to work.
富士康在武汉设有生产基地，主要为惠普、戴尔、联想等企业代工电脑台式机，员工两万余人。
Foxconn has production base in Wuhan, mainly for Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Lenovo and other enterprises on behalf of the computer desktop, more than 20,000 employees.
一位富士康资深武汉工厂主管告诉《财经》记者，按规定湖北企业2月14日复工，他们初步预计复工率只有1/5。
A senior head of the Wuhan factory at Foxconn told Caijing that Hubei enterprises had been required to resume work on February 14.
上述富士康武汉工厂主管表示，富士康武汉工厂管理层“天天开会”，制定“产能恢复”计划，例如准备包车去将员工一一接回来，对到岗员工实施特殊的奖励政策；制定分批次开工和饮食计划；筹集消毒水口罩等物资；等等。
The head of the Foxconn Wuhan factory said Foxconn factory managers met "every day" to work out "capacity recovery" plans, such as chartering cars to pick up employees, imposing special incentives on arriving employees, developing batch start-up and food plans, raising supplies such as disinfectant masks, etc.
“能不能招回员工是一个问题，召回多少员工也是一个问题，太少无益于生产，太多这些人的健康保障压力会很大。
"Recruiting people back is a problem, as is the number of employees they recall, too little of which is not productive, and too many of these people have high health-care pressures."
”他说，富士康也在计划将武汉工厂的部分产能转移至其他地区。
He said Foxconn was also planning to transfer some of Wuhan factory capacity elsewhere.
但富士康最重要的工厂主要在河南郑州和广东深圳。
But Foxconn's most important plants are in Zhengzhou, Henan, and Shenzhen, Guangdong.
富士康郑州和深圳龙华两地厂区各有约20万多名员工，为苹果等手机品牌商代工智能手机，其复工情况将关系到苹果整个供应链。
Foxconn's Zhengzhou and Shenzhen's Longhua factories each employ about 200,000 people, and Apple's entire supply chain will be affected by the resumption of work on handset-branded smartphones, such as Apple's.
据媒体报道，富士康郑州工厂已经获准复工，深圳和昆山厂的复工仍在与当地政府协调中。
According to media reports, Foxconn Zhengzhou factory has been allowed to resume work, Shenzhen and Kunshan factories are still in coordination with the local government.
但至9日为止，富士康郑州工厂已有约1万6千多名员工在厂区，复工率一成左右。
But by September 9, Foxconn Zhengzhou factory has about 16, 000 employees in the plant, about 10% return to work.
富士康母公司鸿海精密已下调2020年营收增长预期。
Hon Hai, Foxconn's parent, has lowered its revenue growth forecast for 2020.
鸿海董事长刘扬伟公开表示，公司现在预计今年营收将增长1%至3%，低于鸿海在1月22日预计的3%至5%，也不及分析师平均预计的5.4%。
Liu Yangwei, Hon Hai's chairman, said publicly that the company now expects revenues to grow by 1 per cent to 3 per cent this year, below Hon Hai's forecast of 3 per cent to 5 per cent on January 22 and 5.4 per cent below analysts' average forecast.
出门问问是一家基于语音交互技术的人工智能公司，主要生产智能手表、耳机等智能硬件设备，是中国众多消费电子终端公司之一。
Is a voice interactive technology-based artificial intelligence company, mainly produces intelligent watches, headphones and other intelligent hardware equipment, is one of China's numerous consumer electronics terminal companies.
出门问问CEO李志飞告诉《财经》记者，目前资金情况良好，投资方多为战略合作伙伴，整体来看资本方面没有阶段性问题，但他比较担心的是，供应链上下游延迟复工，或将延期投产；物流速度降低，甚至可能出现停运；产品入关检查的时间和财务成本或增加，为海外销售业务带来挑战。
Ask CEO Li Zhifei, telling Caijing that the capital situation is good, investors are mostly strategic partners, there is no overall capital problem, but he is more concerned about delays or delays in the reactivation of the supply chain; lower logistics speeds and possible outages; and the timing and financial costs of product entry inspections, which pose challenges for overseas sales.
产能受限已经影响到一些公司的新订单。
Capacity constraints have affected new orders from some companies.
《财经》记者获悉，摄像头模组供应商舜宇光学、丘钛等工厂的复工率不高，有些甚至不到30%。
"Caijing" reporter learned that camera module supplier Shun-woo optical, Qiu Ti and other factories are not high, some even less than 30%.
一位供应链人士对《财经》记者分析，舜宇光学没有拿到三星的镜头订单，很可能是产能原因，迫使三星转向了别的供应商。
A supply chain analyst with Caijing said that Sun-woo optics didn't get Samsung's lens order, probably because of production capacity, forcing Samsung to switch to another supplier.
总之，智能手机将是最受冲击的消费电子设备之一。
In short, smartphones will be one of the most hit consumer electronics devices.
第三方机构SA在近期发布的报告中预测，如果疫情在2月下旬和3月份能得到有效控制，2020年全球智能手机的出货量将比预期减少2%，中国市场将比预期减少5％。
A recent report by the third-party agency SA predicts global smartphone shipments will be 2 per cent lower than expected and China's 5 per cent lower than expected if the outbreak is effectively contained in late February and March.
但如果疫情持续到4、5月份，GFK分析师宗清楷向《财经》记者预估，这个数字可能将翻倍，中国市场2020年全年的智能手机实际销量至少会下滑10%。
But if the epidemic continues into April or May, GFK analyst Zong Qing-kai predicted to Caijing that the number could double, with actual smartphone sales in China falling by at least 10% for all of 2020.
面对复工难，许多企业负责人表示在理解与支持政府各项抗“疫”措施的同时，也希望政府可以针对性提供“租金减免、税费减免、贷款贴息、产业专项资金扶持、融资支持、贷款保证保险支持、劳动用工支持”等支持。
While understanding and supporting the government's efforts to combat the epidemic, many business leaders said they hoped the government would provide "rent relief, tax relief, loan interest discount, industry-specific fund support, financing support, loan guarantee insurance support and labor support."
抗疫当前，行业互助行为开始出现。
Anti-epidemic activities, the industry began to help each other.
例如，联想提出，该公司在武汉、合肥、深圳等地工厂诚邀临时歇业的企业商户员工来上班，提供电脑、服务器、手机的组装、包装等临时工作机会，工厂将配备充足的防护用具及清洁消毒用品以保障工作人员健康。
Lenovo, for example, says it is inviting workers from factories in Wuhan, Hefei and Shenzhen to come to work temporarily to provide temporary jobs such as computers, servers, cell phones, packaging and other temporary work.
联想集团相关负责人表示，中小企业不能垮，一些不具备防疫抗毒能力的小工厂，强行开工风险太大，联想希望能够帮助他们撑过去。
Lenovo Group said that small and medium-sized enterprises can not collapse, some do not have the anti-virus capacity of small factories, forced work is too risky, Lenovo hopes to help them through.
张露告诉《财经》记者，因为疫情，政府多个部门均出台相应的补助支持政策，园区将很快上线专项查询平台，让企业一分钟即能查询到自己能获得哪些政策与资金的支持。
Zhang told Caijing that because of the outbreak, many government departments have introduced corresponding subsidy support policies, and the park will soon go online on a special inquiry platform, allowing companies to find out in a minute what policies and funds they can access.
局部复工、产能不足的情况可能会持续一个月甚至两个月，这会导致供应链的转移吗？大部分的受访人士表示，短期不会。
A partial return to work with insufficient capacity could last a month or even two months, leading to a shift in supply chains? Most respondents said not in the short term.
李志飞就表示，从当前消费电子产品的全球供应链资源分布情况来看，国内全链条制造资源的丰富和完善程度全球领先，具备非常强的竞争力。
Li Zhifei said that from the current distribution of global supply chain resources of consumer electronics, the whole chain of domestic manufacturing resources rich and perfect global leading, with a very strong competitiveness.
本文为《财经》与腾讯新闻独家合作内容，谢绝转载。
This article for "Caijing" and Tencent News exclusive cooperation content, declined to reproduce.
▲点击图片查看更多疫情报道责编| 蒋丽 lijiang@caijing.com.cn本文为《财经》杂志原创文章，未经授权不得转载或建立镜像。
Click here for more details about the outbreak. Jiang Lijiang @ caijing.com.cn This article is an original article for Caijing magazine, and cannot be reproduced or mirrored without authorization.
如需转载，请在文末留言申请并获取授权。
For reproduction, please leave a message at the end of the application and obtain authorization.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
疫情带来六大影响，中国芯片和消费电子行业积极自救。
The epidemic has six major implications, with the Chinese chip and consumer electronics industries actively helping themselves.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "财经杂志";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & economics magazine & quot;
var msg_title = "疫情带来六大影响，中国芯片和消费电子行业积极自救";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; China's chip and consumer electronics industries.
var msg_desc = "疫情首先冲击劳动密集型的电子组装制造工厂，引发供应链上的各种连锁反应，可能在短期内延缓中国电子信息制造产业飞奔的脚步，政府、行业协会和企业应需要多种形式的互助和自救";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="财经杂志";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & economics & quot; & quot; & quot;
