谁在支援一线女性医护人员的生理期特殊需求？。
Who is supporting the physiological needs of frontline female health care workers?
卢奕贝。
LU Yick Pui.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
来源：图虫记者：卢奕贝 编辑：昝慧昉“ 上海市妇联曾从战斗在疫情最前线的医疗卫生机构获悉，医生中有50%以上为女性，一线女护士更超过90%。
http: / / www.youtheme.cn / www.youtheme.cnThe Shanghai Women's Federation has learned from the medical and health institutions at the forefront of the fight against the epidemic that more than 50% of doctors are women and more than 90% of frontline nurses are women.
”防护服穿脱一次就作废，为了节省物资，武汉战疫一线的医生护士只能连续七八个小时不上厕所，不是“憋着”就是靠纸尿裤应急。
To save supplies, Wuhan doctors and nurses on the front line of the epidemic have been unable to use the toilet for seven or eight hours, either "suffocating" or relying on diapers for emergency treatment.
对女性医护来说，如果遭遇了生理期，也只能硬着头皮顶住。
For female health care, if the physiological period encountered, but can only brazen it out.
一位武汉女医生告诉界面新闻，由于防护服穿脱不便，更换卫生用品成了无奈的尴尬。
Wuhan woman doctor told the interface news, due to the inconvenience of wearing protective clothing, replacement of sanitary products has become a helpless embarrassment.
在这种情况下，只有用纸尿裤代替，在进入隔离区4到6小时后，趁更换防护服的时候一起更换。
In such cases, paper diapers are used instead and replaced together with the change of protective clothing four to six hours after entry into the area of separation.
武汉三医院的宣传科负责人也对界面新闻表示，该医院的护士四小时排一个班，如果在月经期或上厕所会使用纸尿裤。
Wuhan three hospitals propaganda section head also told the interface news, the hospital nurses in a four-hour shift, if the menstrual period or toilet will use diapers.
此外，有些患者也有这方面的需要。
In addition, some patients also have such needs.
新冠肺炎有时会导致拉肚子，且有许多女性患者在医院住着，没有办法买到卫生巾。
Coronary pneumonia sometimes causes diarrhea, and many women live in hospitals, unable to buy sanitary towels.
好在目前已有爱心人士向该医院捐助了成人纸尿裤以及安心裤。
Luckily, the hospital has so far received donations of adult diapers and comfort pants from caring people.
不过，并不是所有医护人员或病患都能用上纸尿裤这类物资的，多位武汉一线医护对界面新闻表示，这种物资会优先给特殊人群在特殊时期使用。
However, not all medical personnel or patients can use such materials as diaper pants, several Wuhan frontline medical personnel told the Interface News, this kind of material will be given priority to special groups of people in special periods of time.
连纸尿裤都紧缺，更不用说卫生巾。
Even diapers are in short supply, not to mention sanitary towels.
那么女性医护人员遇上生理期怎么办？为什么好像没怎么听说这类求助信息？微博博主@梁钰Stacey也有这样的担忧，2月7日，她发布博文表示想要向女性医护人员捐助卫生巾与安心裤，向网友征求意见。
So what about the physiological period for female healthcare workers? Why doesn't she seem to hear so much about this kind of information? Weibo blogger @ Liang Yu Stacey shared this concern. On February 7, she announced her intention to donate sanitary towels and slacks to female health care workers for comment.
在许多人留言讨论可行性的同时，也有人发出质疑，“现在捐什么安心裤，人家医生护士有需要吗？人家更需要的是口罩防护服好吧”。
While many of the comments were about feasibility, there was also the question, "What peace of mind pants do people donate now, do doctors and nurses need them? What people need more is mask protection, right?"
然而需求的确存在，而且缺口很大。
Needs do exist, however, and the gap is large.
不止女性医护人员，女性病患也非常需要生理期用品。
Not only female medical staff, female patients are also in great need of physiological supplies.
在@梁钰Stacey的微博下，有多位女性医护留言，称生理期真的很麻烦，忍着生理痛还要继续坚守岗位，连卫生用品都没有，向护士长申请了两天都没发下来；也有女性肺炎患者求助，需要安心裤这种不用频繁更换的生理期用品，称长时间躺着输液，连站起来去厕所的力气都没有了，更别提更换卫生巾。
Under the microblog @ Leung Yu Stacey, there were many female medical messages saying that the physiological period was really troublesome. They kept on their posts despite the physical pain, did not even apply to the head nurse for two days.
关注到这方面需求的人和机构也在增多。
The number of people and institutions concerned with this need is also increasing.
博主@梁钰Stacey自2月7号开始，发起了一个“姐妹战役安心行动”，与相关慈善基金会合作，为前线的女性医护人员的生理健康提供物资保障。
Since February 7, blog @ Leung Yu Stacey has launched a "Sisters in Peace Campaign" to provide material support for the physical health of female front-line health care workers, in collaboration with relevant charitable foundations.
当她询问有无需求的一线医生，表示想捐献安心裤时，很快有人发出“哇~”的惊喜声，回应“有有有”。
When she asked first-line doctors if they wanted to donate reassurance pants, a "wow ~" surprise was quickly answered, "There is something."
甚至，求助的医护人员不止是湖北省的，河南的医院也有向她求助卫生巾、安心裤支援的。
Even, the help of medical personnel is not only in Hubei Province, Henan hospitals have to help her sanitary towel, comfort pants support.
博主@梁钰Stacey微博截图。
Poster @ Leung Yu Stacey microblog capture.
上海市妇联曾从战斗在疫情最前线的医疗卫生机构获悉，医生中有50%以上为女性，一线女护士更超过90%。
The Shanghai Women's Federation has learned from medical and health institutions where the battle is at the forefront of the epidemic that more than 50 percent of doctors and more than 90 percent of frontline nurses are women.
这也意味着，前线过半的医护人员都有可能有生理期用品的需求。
This also means that more than half of the front-line health care workers are likely to have physiological needs.
然而，在防疫物资紧缺的武汉，女性生理期用品的重要程度，与防护服、口罩等保护生命安全的物资是完全不能相比的。
However, in Wuhan, where epidemic prevention materials are in short supply, the importance of female physiology supplies, and protective clothing, masks and other materials to protect life and safety is completely incomparable.
抗疫前线的每分每秒都很紧张，医护人员在盘点物资时，只能紧着最多人需要的调取。
Every minute of the day on the front line of the epidemic is so intense that medical staff can only pinch what most people need when taking stock of their supplies.
注意到相关需求，1月31日，上海市妇联等女性社会组织发出募集安心裤等相关物资和资金的倡议书，所有募捐物品将捐赠给上海赴武汉医疗队女性工作人员，市公共卫生临床中心、市疾控中心一线女性医务人员，以及市110个发热门诊一线女性医务人员。
On January 31, 2008, the Shanghai Municipal Women's Union and other women's social organizations sent a proposal to collect peace of mind pants and other related materials and funds. All donations will be made to female workers of the Wuhan Medical Team, front-line medical staff of city public health clinics and city CDC, and 110 front-line female medical personnel in the city's heating clinics.
至2月2日下午，在各方的大力支持和广泛参与下，考拉裤（裤型卫生巾）的募集总数达10.94万片，募集资金47.76万元。
By the afternoon of February 2, with strong support and extensive participation, koalas (trouser sanitary napkins) had raised 109,400 pieces and raised 477,600 yuan.
天猫平台上的多位爱心商家也紧急捐赠了近40万片成人纸尿裤、安心裤，相关公关负责人对界面新闻表示，第一批物资已于2月10出发，将送到大学人民医院、天佑医院，同济医院，武汉市汉口医院、武汉五院等8家医院。
Some 400,000 pairs of adult diapers and slacks were donated, and the first batch will be sent to eight hospitals, including the University People's Hospital, Tianyou Hospital, Tongji Hospital, Wuhan Hankou Hospital and Wuhan Five Hospitals on February 10, the head of public relations told the Interface News.
爱心物资正在配送。
Loving supplies are being distributed.
来源：阿里巴巴卫生巾生产商也行动起来，主动捐出了库存。
Source: Alibaba sanitary napkin manufacturers have also taken the initiative to donate inventory.
宝洁公司对界面新闻表示，2月1日，宝洁注意到成人纸尿裤和裤型卫生巾成为一线女性医护人员的必需品。
Procter & Gamble told Interface News on Feb. 1 that Procter & Gamble noticed that adult diapers and trouser sanitary napkins were a necessity for first-line female health care workers.
到2月7日，公司旗下护舒宝品牌已陆续通过中国青基会、壹基金，向上海医疗队及其援助医院捐助了650箱成人裤，也为湖北武汉、随州6所医院以及北大援鄂医疗队捐献了1000箱成人裤以及考拉裤（裤型卫生巾）。
By February 7, the company's Shu Bao brand, through the China Youth Foundation and One Foundation, had donated 650 cases of adult trousers to the Shanghai Medical Team and its aid hospitals, as well as 1,000 cases of adult trousers and koalas (trouser sanitary napkins) to six hospitals in Wuhan, Suizhou and Peking University.
宝洁大中华区副总裁许有杰对界面新闻表示， 目前650箱成人纸尿裤已顺利送到华山医院、中山医院和黄冈医院。
At present, 650 cases of adult diapers have been delivered to Huashan Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital and Huanggang Hospital, Xu Youjie, vice-president of Procter Gamble Greater China, told Interface News.
宝洁捐献物资。
Procter & Gamble donated supplies.
来源：宝洁公司提供博主@梁钰Stacey的“姐妹战役安心行动”也在继续。
Source: Procter & Gamble offers blog host @ Leung Yu Stacey "Operation Sisters in Peace" also continues.
至2月10日，共有5个品牌3个团体，捐赠安心裤3317箱、女士一次性内裤3120条、卫生巾2880片，护手霜700支，至武汉、黄冈、孝感、鄂州等26家医院。
By February 10, five brands and three groups had donated 3317 boxes of comfort pants, 3,120 disposable underwear for women, 2,880 sanitary napkins and 700 hand cream to 26 hospitals in Wuhan, Huanggang, Xiaogan and Huizhou.
界面新闻联系上Stacey时，她说自己和其余志愿者每个人都已进入战时状态，真的非常忙。
When Interface News contacted Stacey, she said she and the rest of the volunteers were each in a wartime state and were really busy.
自2月7日至今的4天里，Stacey只睡了11个小时，瘦了4斤。
In the four days since Feb. 7, Stacey has only slept 11 hours and lost four pounds.
她曾在微博上写道，捐赠安心裤不应该是我在劳心劳力，也不该是任何社会组织慈善基金，这本就应该划进“战时状态”的统一采购分派的必需物资，个人和其他机构的能力太有限了。
She wrote on Weibo that the donation of comfort pants should not be a labor-intensive effort on my part, nor should it be a charitable fund of any social organization, which should have been included in the "wartime state" of uniform procurement of essential supplies, with too limited capacity for individuals and other institutions.
不仅此次医护人员需要，还有女警察、女消防员、女军人等等。
Not only this time medical personnel need, but also female police officers, female firefighters, female military personnel and so on.
她希望这次的关注，能让女性工作者的生理期用品成为一个被合理重视的问题。
She hopes this focus will make the physiological well-being of female workers a legitimate concern.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
谁在支援一线女性医护人员的生理期特殊需求？。
Who is supporting the physiological needs of frontline female health care workers?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "谁在支援一线女性医护人员的生理期特殊需求？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; Who has supported frontline women with special physiological needs?;
var msg_desc = "上海市妇联曾从战斗在疫情最前线的医疗卫生机构获悉，医生中有50%以上为女性，一线女护士更超过90%。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The Shanghai Women's Federation was told by health workers at the forefront of the battle that more than 50% of doctors and more than 90% of first-line nurses are women.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
