黄奇帆：建议取消住房公积金，可为企业和职工降低12%成本。
Huang Qifan: The proposed abolition of housing provident fund, enterprises and workers can reduce the cost of 12%.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：辛圆“ 面对新冠肺炎疫情，黄奇帆表示，除了现在各级政府所采用的税收等政策以外，建议加快推进四个方面的改革，包括尽快落实农民工在城市落户的有关政策、取消企业住房公积金制度、出台政策鼓励企业实行年金制度、想方设法降低物流成本。
"In the face of the new crown pneumonia epidemic, Huang said," In addition to current government policies on taxation, it is recommended to accelerate the implementation of four reforms, including implementing the policy of settling migrant workers in cities as soon as possible, abolishing the enterprise housing provident fund system, and introducing policies to encourage enterprises to adopt an annuity system and find ways to reduce logistics costs.
”新型冠状病毒肺炎给中国经济增加很大不确定性，尽管最近一段时间来中央和地方政府从税收、融资等方面采取一系列措施来减轻疫情对企业的负面影响，但原全国人大财经委副主任、清华产业转型顾问委员会主席黄奇帆表示，这些措施远远不够，建议亟需从四个方面着手推进改革。
The new coronavirus pneumonia has added to the uncertainty in China's economy, although in recent days the central and local governments have taken a series of measures to mitigate the negative impact of the epidemic on enterprises through taxation and financing.
黄奇帆发表在微信公众号“清华大学互联网产业研究院”的文章《新冠疫情下对经济发展和制造业复工的几点建议》中指出，2月10日复工、复产，是大部分地区规定的，但是企业真正意义上的复工复产依然困难重重。
"Some suggestions for economic development and the resumption of manufacturing under the new crown epidemic," Huang said in an article published by Weixin Public "Internet Industry Research Institute of Tsinghua University." The resumption of work on February 10 is the rule in most areas, but it is still difficult for enterprises to get back to work.
他表示，首先，疫情防控所导致的工人极度短缺。
First, he said, the disease control caused by the extreme shortage of workers.
工人返回工厂手续很多，各级政府之担忧确实能理解，复工申请层层批复、复工培训、疫情防控、人员梳理管控，每一个细节都重要，这确实是无奈之举。
There are many procedures for workers to return to the factory, and the concerns of governments at all levels are understandable. It is indeed necessary to resume the work process with layers of approval, back-to-work training, epidemic prevention and control, and personnel management.
不过，只要手续齐全，效率还是很快的。
However, as long as the formalities are complete, the efficiency is fast.
但是工人依然回不来，封路、封村、劝返、拒入、户籍、住所、隔离时间等问题，这才是导致复工的第一大难点。
However, workers are still unable to return home, sealing the road, sealing the village, persuasion, denial of entry, residence, residence, isolation time, and so on, this is the first difficulty leading to the resumption of work.
其次，疫情导致很多产业供应链残缺不全。
Second, the epidemic has left many industrial supply chains incomplete.
全国各地大部分企业都有很多外部协作零部件供应商，大家都会面临工人短缺、材料短缺、部件短缺的问题。
Most companies around the country have a large number of external suppliers of collaborative parts, and all face shortages of workers, materials and components.
这些企业处于不同城市的不同区域，政策不同程序不同，恢复生产时间不同、互相匹配极难，这是第二大难点。
These enterprises are located in different regions of different cities, different policy procedures, different recovery time, extremely difficult to match each other, this is the second major difficulty.
三是疫情期间的企业物流运输几乎停顿。
Third, the enterprise logistics transportation during the epidemic period almost stopped.
除了疫情必需的物资，全国各地设置了各路关卡，供应商原材料、零部件进不来，复工生产后产品运不出去。
In addition to the necessary materials for the epidemic, checkpoints have been set up throughout the country, suppliers raw materials, spare parts can not enter, the resumption of production products can not be shipped.
同时，人员限制流动导致市场拓展极难开展，尤其是外贸，目前60多个国家限制中国进入，市场损失巨大。
At the same time, restrictions on the movement of people have made market expansion extremely difficult, especially in foreign trade, where more than 60 countries currently restrict China's entry, causing huge market losses.
在黄奇帆看来，解决上述三个问题，除了现在各级政府所采用的税收等政策以外，建议加快推进四个方面的改革。
In Huang's view, to solve the above-mentioned three problems, in addition to the current government at all levels of taxation and other policies, it is recommended to accelerate the four aspects of reform.
一是尽快落实农民工在城市落户的有关政策，快速解决制造业用工短缺问题。
The first is to implement the policy of settling migrant workers in urban areas as soon as possible to solve the shortage of manufacturing jobs.
如果3亿农民工中有2亿能在城市落户，不仅可以纾解春运压力，还能快速补充城市劳动力、有效延长农民工工作年龄、年度工作时间，延长人口红利机遇期。
If 200 million of the 300 million migrant workers can settle in cities, it will not only relieve the pressure of spring transportation, but also quickly replenish the urban labor force, effectively extend the working age and annual working hours of migrant workers, and prolong the window of opportunity for demographic dividend.
二是取消企业住房公积金制度。
Second, abolish the enterprise housing accumulation fund system.
住房公积金制度是1990年代初从新加坡学来的，现在我国房地产早已市场化，商业银行已成为提供房贷的主体，住房公积金存在的意义已经不大，将之取消可为企业和职工直接降低12%的成本。
The housing provident fund system was learned from Singapore in the early 1990s, but now China's real estate market, commercial banks have become the main providers of housing loans, housing provident fund has little meaning, it can be eliminated for enterprises and workers can directly reduce the cost of 12%.
三是出台政策鼓励企业实行年金制度，并疏通企业年金投资资本市场的渠道和机制。
Third, the introduction of policies to encourage enterprises to implement the annuity system, and dredge the enterprise annuity investment capital market channels and mechanisms.
这不仅有利于补充社会养老保险资金，还有利于形成庞大的长期资本供给，为资本市场繁荣稳定奠定基础。
This not only helps to supplement the funds of social endowment insurance, but also helps to form a large long-term capital supply and lay the foundation for a prosperous and stable capital market.
四是想方设法降低物流成本。
Fourth, find ways to reduce logistics costs.
此次疫情将给一些“在线”产业带来重大机遇，也对物流效率提出更高要求。
The outbreak will bring significant opportunities to some "online" industries, as well as higher requirements for logistics efficiency.
建议重点提高铁路运输货运量在各类运输方式中的比重，将铁路线尽快延伸到各类开发区、厂矿企业去，打通铁路运输“最后一公里”，降低综合物流成本。
It is recommended that priority be given to increasing the proportion of rail freight in all modes of transportation, extending railway lines to all types of development zones and factories and mining enterprises as soon as possible, and opening up the "last kilometer" of railway transport to reduce the overall logistics cost.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
黄奇帆：建议取消住房公积金，可为企业和职工降低12%成本。
Huang Qifan: The proposed abolition of housing provident fund, enterprises and workers can reduce the cost of 12%.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "黄奇帆：建议取消住房公积金，可为企业和职工降低12%成本";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Huang Qifan: Recommended abolition of the housing fund at the expense of & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "面对新冠肺炎疫情，黄奇帆表示，除了现在各级政府所采用的税收等政策以外，建议加快推进四个方面的改革，包括尽快落实农民工在城市落户的有关政策、取消企业住房公积金制度、出台政策鼓励企业实行年金制度、想方设法降低物流成本。
Faced with the new crown pneumonia epidemic, Huang says, 'In addition to the tax and other policies now in use by all levels of government, we recommend speeding up our four reforms, including implementing the policy of settling migrant workers in urban areas as soon as possible, abolishing the enterprise housing provident fund system, and introducing policies to encourage enterprises to adopt an annuity system and find ways to reduce logistics costs.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '新冠疫情下对经济发展和制造业复工的几点建议',。
A few recommendations and tips for economic development and manufacturing revival at New Crown.
subject_name: '清华大学互联网产业研究院',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
