草莓等不到疫情结束，农户们着急了。
Strawberries waited until the outbreak was over and the farmers were worried.
马越。
Ma Yue.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
丹东草莓 （图片来源：谢长城）记者：马越编辑：牙韩翔“ 疫情影响下的农产品物流运输、保鲜成了问题，眼下电商几乎成为了唯一的销售渠道。
Dandong Strawberry (Source: Xie Great Wall) Journalist: Ma Yue editor.Toya Hanxiang: The logistics and preservation of agricultural products under the impact of the epidemic have become a problem.
”“我们村没有疫情，没有流动人口，草莓摘好就可以马上包装发走。
"There is no epidemic in our village and there is no floating population.
”徐金在朋友圈发送了这样一行文字，并配上了家人在大棚里采摘草莓的小视频，“最低价格了，求转发。
Xu sent the line in a circle of friends, complete with a video of family members picking strawberries in the shed.
”他在评论里补充道。
'he added in the remark.
这个1996年出生的年轻人，去年大学毕业回到辽宁丹东东港老家，帮助打理家里种植的几个大棚的草莓生意。
The young man, born in 1996, graduated from college last year and returned to his hometown of Dandong Donggang, Liaoning Province, to help run the strawberry business in the shacks he grew.
他刚度过了最为焦灼而忙碌的一个春节——本该正值销售旺季的丹东草莓，却严重滞销了。
He had just passed one of his most anxious and busy Spring Festival, when Dandong strawberries, which were supposed to be in high season, was severely undersold.
疫情在春节前夕来势汹汹。
The epidemic raged on Spring Festival Eve.
随着防疫政策的升级，村镇封路，在年前已经联系好的外地经销商无法进入。
With the upgrading of vaccination policy, villages and towns closed roads, in the year before has been good access to overseas dealers.
加上城市里大型商超的关闭，大量已经成熟草莓的销售渠道一下子断了。
Coupled with the city's large business ultra-closure, a large number of ripe strawberry sales channels have suddenly broken down.
“就像冬天兜头浇了一盆冷水的感觉”，他对界面新闻形容，因为不光是自家生意，他还负责周边十几家草莓农户的的代销。
"It was like a cold-water basin in the winter," he told the Interface News, because he was not just running his own business, he was also in charge of selling a dozen strawberry farmers around him.
整个丹东的草莓总栽培面积超过了20万亩，年产量超过20万吨，这里也是全国最大的草莓生产和出口基地。
Dandong strawberry total cultivation area of more than 200,000 mu, annual production of more than 200,000 tons, here is also the largest strawberry production and export base.
每年的12月到4月，正是丹东草莓大量上市的季节，其中最主要的品种称之为“丹东99”——已经成为最有品牌效应国产草莓。
December to April is the season for a large number of Dandong strawberries, the most important of which is called Dandong 99, which has become the most famous domestic strawberry brand.
通常在春节期间，北京、上海等大城市的生鲜超市里，包装精美的丹东99草莓零售价甚至能达到40-50元一斤。
The delicately packaged Dandong 99 strawberries retail for as much as $40 to $50 a catty during Spring Festival, often in the fresh supermarkets of big cities such as Beijing and Shanghai.
草莓大棚 （图片来源：谢长城）草莓大棚 （图片来源：谢长城）“往年在春节前后草莓大量上市的时候，我们这里产地的收购价格是20多块钱一斤。
Strawberry greenhouses (photo: thanks to the Great Wall) Strawberry sheds "When strawberries used to go on sale around Spring Festival, our purchase price here was more than 20 yuan a catty.
”徐金告诉界面新闻，在疫情爆发后，草莓收购价格暴跌到了每斤2-3元。
Xu told Interface News that after the outbreak of the outbreak, strawberry prices plummeted to 2-3 yuan per catty.
在走超市经销商渠道无望的情况下，他和几个同村人开了一辆小货车，在大年初二这天把草莓拉到城里的路边贩卖。
In the supermarket dealer channel hopeless, he and several fellow villagers drove a pickup truck, on the second day of the New Year pulled strawberries to the city roadside to sell.
“大果15元一斤，小的13元一斤，再小的10元一斤。
"Big fruit 15 yuan a catty, small 13 yuan a catty, again small 10 yuan a catty.
”同村的另一位草莓种植户谢长城告诉界面新闻。
Another strawberry farmer in the same village, Xie, told the interface news.
“真的是白菜价了。
"It's a real white price.
”徐金说，在3天时间里只卖掉200多斤。
Xu said he had sold just over 200 pounds in three days.
但这种路边摊形式的零售也难以为继。
But this form of stand-by retailing is also unsustainable.
不仅有城管的劝退，在疫情越发严重的情况下，人们也都不出门了。
Not only did the city police retreat, but people stayed out of the house as the epidemic got worse.
作为一种娇贵的水果，草莓销售的最大难点在于如何运输和保鲜。
As a delicate fruit, strawberry sales of the biggest difficulty is how to transport and fresh.
而徐金也在考虑，是否可以把草莓深加工，制作为保存期更长的草莓冻干。
Xu was also considering whether strawberries could be further processed to freeze-dry strawberries with a longer shelf life.
而他在咨询了当地一家企业后发现，加工成本太高，“2万块的草莓，加工费就要7-8万，做出来大概要花10多万块钱了，产品也没有什么价格优势。
But after consulting a local company, he found that the processing cost was too high. "Twenty thousand strawberries cost 70,000 to 80,000 yuan to make and cost about 100,000 yuan to make.
”眼下，他只能寄希望于网络销售，徐金从大二开始，就在淘宝开设了网店，发售一些散单。
For now, he can only hope to sell online, starting with his sophomore year at Taobao, where he has opened online shops selling loose receipts.
同时，他和同村的草莓种植户一起，拉了300人左右的微信群，在朋友圈售卖草莓。
Meanwhile, he worked with strawberry farmers in his village to sell strawberries among a group of about 300 people.
幸好顺丰快递还没有停运。
Fortunately Shunfeng Express has not stopped shipping.
他雇佣了20多个乡亲们摘草莓、包装，从早上6、7点一直忙到下午，省内的快递下午发，省外的快递上午发。
He employed more than 20 villagers to pick strawberries, packaging, from 6, 7 in the morning until the afternoon, the province's express delivery afternoon, the morning delivery out of the province.
丹东99草莓 （图片来源：谢长城）“每单3斤，加上运费的话是79-89块钱左右。
"Dandong 99 Strawberries (Source: Xie Great Wall)" It's about $79 to $89 per unit, plus freight.
”徐金说，而这个价格也只是勉强保本，如果不能尽快把草莓运输出去，那么它们的结局只能是大批烂在地里。
Xu said the price was a bare minimum, and if strawberries could not be shipped out quickly, they would end up sopping up in the fields.
以往商超销售渠道占80%以上，网售只是很小一部分，现在则颠倒了过来，网上渠道占了80%以上。
In the past, more than 80% of sales channels, only a small part of the net sales, now reversed, online channels accounted for more than 80%.
谢长城以前没有做过电商，在同乡的帮助下，他也开始慢慢摸索网上销售的路子。
Xie Great Wall has not done electric business before, in the home help, he also began to slowly explore the way online sales.
但目前最大的问题仍然是物流，“现在快递不包时效，我们都是新鲜发出，但路上随时有可能遇到停运的情况，这时候就要重新发，或者赔钱。
However, the biggest problem is still logistics, "express delivery is not time-bound, we are all fresh, but the road can be encountered at any time, at this time to re-issue, or to lose money.
”他告诉界面新闻。
He told the Interface News.
像徐金和谢长城一样焦虑的农户并不在少数。
There are many farmers as anxious as Xu and Xie.
事实上，除了草莓之外，全国大量的苹果、枇杷、菠萝蜜、猕猴桃、哈密瓜、春笋、蒜薹等蔬菜瓜果因为受到疫情的影响而滞销。
In fact, in addition to strawberries, a large number of apples, loquats, pineapple, kiwi, cantaloupe, spring asparagus, garlic and other vegetables and fruits are not sold because of the epidemic.
而最近你在微博、微信、抖音、快手、闲鱼、小红书等社交平台上经常可以看到“帮帮我们，XX滞销”的信息。
And recently you can often see "help us, XX unsalable" information on social platforms such as Weibo, Micromail, Chatter, Fast Hand, idle fish, Little Red Book, etc.
不过最新的消息是，包括阿里巴巴、京东等电商平台开始主动介入，搭建生鲜频道来帮助这些滞销的农产品销售。
However, the latest news, including Alibaba, Jingdong and other electrical business platforms began to step in to set up fresh channels to help these unsaleable agricultural sales.
淘宝只用了12小时就上线了一个“吃货助农”频道，第一批筛选了山东、海南、浙江、辽宁等六省十款滞销的农产品，包括丹东草莓、烟台红富士苹果、海南长豆角、临安春笋等上线。
Taobao took only 12 hours to put on line a "food aid" channel, the first batch screened Shandong, Hainan, Zhejiang, Liaoning and other provinces of 10 unmarketable agricultural products, including Dandong strawberries, Yantai red Fuji apple, Hainan long beans, Lin'an bamboo shoots, etc.
阿里巴巴该项目的负责人告诉界面新闻，现阶段制约商家发货的，除了物流问题，还有人工和包装材料，比如纸箱、泡沫塑料、空气柱等材料十分缺乏。
Alibaba project director told the interface news, the current phase of shipping constraints, in addition to logistics issues, but also labor and packaging materials, such as cardboard boxes, foam, air column and other materials are very scarce.
“我们现在几乎所有的商家发货都不是按照产能发货，而是按照运力发货，”他解释称，“比如说今天我只有100个纸箱，就只能发100单，虽然菜还有很多，但是发不出来了。
"Almost all our businesses now ship goods not according to capacity, but according to capacity," he explains. "Today I have only 100 cartons, for example, and I can only deliver 100 cartons.
”好在国内主要快递公司自2月10日起全面复工。
Fortunately, the country's leading courier companies have fully resumed work since February 10.
按照阿里巴巴对界面新闻的说法，他们有信心在短期内帮助丹东草莓解决10万单，即30万斤草莓的销量。
According to Alibaba to the interface news, they are confident that in the short term they will help Dandong strawberries solve 100,000, or 300,000 jin, of strawberry sales.
“我们当下的想法就是，能少亏一点就少亏一点，总比烂在地里强。
"Our current thinking is that it is better to lose less than to rot in the ground.
”徐金说，现在解决燃眉之急的网店订单，主要集中在北京、上海、广州、深圳以及其他主要的几个省会城市，而他已经做好了今年损失大概10万块钱的准备。
Xu said he was ready to lose about 100,000 yuan this year as orders for online stores to meet pressing needs focused on Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and other major provincial capitals.
“光靠这几个城市购买的话，其实也很难有效解决滞销的问题。
"It would be very difficult to solve the problem of unmarketable goods simply by buying from these cities.
”他说，“毕竟他们也不能天天吃草莓。
"After all, they can't eat strawberries every day.
”（文中"徐金""谢长城"为化名。
(Text & quot; Xu Jin & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
）未经授权 禁止转载。
) No reproduction is permitted.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
草莓等不到疫情结束，农户们着急了。
Strawberries waited until the outbreak was over and the farmers were worried.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "草莓等不到疫情结束，农户们着急了";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Strawberries waited until the outbreak was over, and farmers were at & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "疫情影响下的农产品物流运输、保鲜成了问题，眼下电商几乎成为了唯一的销售渠道。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; Outbreak-affected agricultural logistics and fresh storage have become a problem, with telecoms now almost the only source of sales.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
