口罩骗局花样频出，为什么电商上的口罩一只难求？。
Mask scam pattern frequently, why is the mask on electric business difficult to get?
林北辰。
Lin Beicheng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：林北辰编辑：文姝琪“ 即使在网上买到了口罩，你也不一定能够用上——延迟发货是最普遍的情况；发货了，订单还要面临虚假发货、商品是三无产品的风险。
Source: Visual Chinese Journalist: NINGNINCHEN EDITOR: "Even if you bought masks online, you may not be able to use them - delayed delivery is the most common situation; after delivery, the order was exposed to the risk of fake delivery and lack of product.
”“你能买到口罩吗？”这是疫情中所有人最牵挂的话题。
"Can you buy a mask?" was the subject of all the talk about the outbreak.
新型冠状病毒肺炎爆发以来，社交平台上，口罩短缺、卖家不发货、买到假口罩的消息频出。
Since the outbreak of the new coronavirus pneumonia, social platform, a shortage of masks, sellers do not deliver goods, buy false masks frequently news.
除去国家征用、运往一线的防疫物资外，对普通消费者而言，要买到足量、正规、合乎标准的口罩是眼下最大的难题。
In addition to the state requisitioned, transported to the front line of epidemic prevention materials, for ordinary consumers, to buy a sufficient number of regular, standard surgical masks is the biggest challenge.
口罩是对抗疫情的必需品，在上海、厦门等地的线下药店和社区居委会，已实行限购政策，通过预约购买的方式，以户为单位向居民发放口罩，单次可领的口罩不超过5个。
Under-line pharmacies and community neighborhood committees in Shanghai, Xiamen and other places have implemented a policy of restricting the purchase of face masks to residents on a household basis. No more than five face masks can be collected at one time.
这能解决一部分应急需求。
This would address some of the emergency needs.
但对于更多地区，以及随着复工需要出门上班的人群来说，作为消耗品的口罩，购买的速度远远赶不上消耗速度。
But for more areas, and for those who need to return to work outside the home, masks are purchased as consumables far outpace consumption.
线下满大街去找口罩，费时还有风险。
Searching the streets for masks offline can take time and can be risky.
于是，电商成了口罩需求的最大载体，宅在家中的人们热切地全网搜索还能够下单的口罩链接。
As a result, the electrical business has become the largest mask demand carrier, people in the home eagerly search the entire network can also be ordered under the mask link.
2月以来，许多焦虑的市民却发现，即使在网上买到了口罩，你也不一定能够用上——延迟发货是最普遍的情况；发货了，订单还要面临虚假发货、商品是三无产品的风险。
Since February, many anxious citizens have found that even if you buy face masks online, you may not be able to use them - late delivery is the most common situation; shipping orders face the risk of fake shipments and three-nil products.
电商乱象频发2月7日，根据湖南省长沙市检察院的通报，长沙检方提前介入了长沙公安局破获的三起销售假飘安口罩案。
Changsha prosecutors were involved in three cases involving the sale of fake fluttering masks uncovered by Changsha Public Security Bureau, according to a report from Hunan provincial procuratorate on Feb. 7.
长沙警方侦破的该三起案件中，共计197万只假冒“飘安”口罩流入湖南市场，这批假“飘安”口罩的共同特点是只有薄薄一层，一扯即破。
Of the three cases detected by Changsha police, 1.97 million fake "fluttering" masks entered the Hunan market. The common feature of the fake masks was that they were thin and ready to be torn apart.
贩假者以0.3元/只的价格，从非法渠道购进假货，转手以0.75元至1元/只的价格将假口罩流入市场，这些假货往往流入诊所、药店、超市以及微商的手中。
Counterfeiters buy fake goods from illegal sources for 0.3 yuan per day and pass them on to the market at a price of between $0.75 and $1 per mask, which often end up in clinics, pharmacies, supermarkets and microbusinesses.
在长沙市高桥医药流通园的案例中，100万只口罩通过倒卖流入诊所、药店、超市以及微商的手中，贩假者仅靠转手，非法获利45万元。
In the case of Gaoqiao Medical Distribution Park in Changsha City, 1 million masks were sold into clinics, pharmacies, supermarkets and micro-merchants, who made illegal profits of 450,000 yuan by simply selling them.
假口罩的流向中，电商是重灾区。
The flow of fake masks, the electrical business is a serious disaster area.
家住上海的史女士是假口罩的第一批受害者，在疫情爆发的1月20号，她就在一家名为“鑫佳安医疗器械专营店”的淘宝店购入了100只口罩。
Ms. Shi, who lives in Shanghai, was one of the first victims of a mask and bought 100 face masks on Jan. 20 at a shop called Xinjiaan Medical Device Shop.
根据公开的店铺信息，该店于2018年9月1日成立，其好评率为100%，在描述、服务栏的评价均为4.7分。
According to open shop information, the store was established on 1 September 2018 with a rating of 100 per cent and a rating of 4.7 per cent in the description and service sections.
7天后，史女士顺利收到了口罩，但这批口罩却是肉眼可见的假货。
Seven days later, Ms. Shi received the mask, but it was a fake that was visible to the naked eye.
薄如蝉翼的口罩，仅仅只有一层布，在阳光下甚至可以透光。
Cicadas-winged masks, with only one layer of cloth, can even penetrate the light in the sun.
透光的口罩史女士很快向平台举报，进行了退款申请，并转向了实体药店的购买渠道。
Ms. Shi quickly reported the mask to the platform, applied for a refund, and switched to the real drug store purchase channel.
但在全民疯抢口罩的情况下，史女士已经很难再买到口罩了。
But in the face of a national mania for masks, Ms. Shi has found it hard to buy one.
1月21日，万亮在天猫平台上搜索"KN95口罩”，进入了排名较为靠前、发货地为金华的一家“向天歌旗舰店”，最终选定了一款“防病菌N95口罩”，以155元的价格买下了一盒30只的口罩，商家承诺顺丰包邮。
At Ryangha's flagship store, Bright Liang searched for & quot; KN95 masks on the cat platform on Jan. 21, and finally chose a germ-resistant N95 mask to pay 155 yuan for a box of 30 masks.
收到商品后，万亮发现实物并没有外包装盒也没有编号。
After receiving the goods, Wan Liang found that the material did not have the outer packaging box nor the number.
更关键的是，口罩也没有打上官方图片中的正品商标。
Crucially, the mask has not been labeled as authentic in the official picture.
无商品名，无厂名、厂址和生产日期，这是一款“三无”口罩，万亮向客服提起了退款申请，商家很快就同意了退款。
No trade name, no factory name, factory location and production date, this is a "three no" mask, Wan Liang to customer service filed a refund request, the merchant quickly agreed to a refund.
实物没有右图所示的商标印记对此，阿里巴巴相关负责人回复称，聚划算百亿补贴官方微博曾经在1月26日发文澄清，向天歌旗舰店确实存在部分商品标识标注不合格问题，平台已进行了相应处理。
In response, Alibaba officials said they had sent a letter on January 26 clarifying that some of the signs at the flagship store did not qualify, and the platform had dealt with them accordingly.
而在向天歌旗舰店的官方涵中，该商家称临时工们对货品不熟悉导致了部分商品错发，错发产品可无条件退款，并附上了口罩质检报告。
In an official letter to the flagship store, the store said casual workers were unfamiliar with the goods, causing some of them to be misdelivered. The wrong products were given an unconditional refund and a mask quality report was attached.
但这样的解释并不能让万亮满意，他认为，查出三无产品却无法索赔是平台的一种“不作为”。
Such an explanation, however, does not satisfy Wan Liang, who believes that it is an "omission" on the part of the Platform to uncover three products without being able to claim them.
相比于万亮的遭遇，北京的苏小姐碰到的事情更离奇，一名无中生有的“朋友”代收了她的口罩。
Compared to the encounter with Wan Liang, Miss Su in Beijing encountered even stranger things, a false "friend" on behalf of her face mask.
1月23日，苏小姐与朋友在拼多多平台上拼单了一款3M 9132口罩，一盒30只，售价143.5元。
On January 23, Miss Su and her friends put together a 3M 9132 mask for $143.5 a box on the Dodo platform.
10天之后，据拼多多上的物流信息显示，这款商品由申通承运，2月6日从山西省发出，2月7日快件到达北京，在当天下午显示已签收，签收人显示是“朋友”。
10 days later, according to logistics information on more than 10 days, the goods were shipped by Shentong, February 6 from Shanxi Province, February 7, the express arrived in Beijing, on the afternoon of the show has been signed, signed by the sign-in is a "friend.
从未收到的快递及虚假物流信息然而，苏小姐在现实中并未收到货品，负责派送的“快递员”电话无法接通，承运该快递的申通快递则声称发货商的订单有问题。
However, Miss Su did not receive the goods in reality, the "courier" responsible for the delivery of the phone could not be connected, the express delivery of Shentong express claimed that the shipper's order was problematic.
苏小姐向拼多多客服投诉，一天后，拼多多方面向苏小姐退款并给予30元购物券的补偿，同时称将处罚商家，不让其做新的宣传和广告投放。
Miss Su complained to the customer service, a day later, put together a multi-way refund to Miss Su and gave 30 yuan voucher compensation, said the business will be punished, do not do new publicity and advertising.
另根据微博网友的爆料，比起从未收到的快递，还有一种更隐蔽的作假方式是长时间显示“揽收”却迟迟没有物流信息更新。
According to Weibo netizens, there is also a more subtle way to fake than never received delivery is to show for a long time "collect" but delayed logistics information updates.
2月8日，一款名为“海豚家”的购物APP因为大量售卖口罩，登至苹果应用商店购物榜第二位，超越了手机淘宝及京东、小米有品，位列拼多多之后。
A shopping APP named Dolphin Home topped Apple's App Store shopping list on Feb. 8 for selling a large number of face masks, surpassing mobile phone taobao and Jingdong and millet products.
然而，一众网友爆料称，“海豚家”平台上的大量订单在运输途中被强制退款、私自扣款。
However, a number of netizens reported that "dolphin home" platform on a large number of orders in transit was forced refund, private deduction.
快递运输中，强制退款的订单对此，海豚家的解释是，由于供货商物资被政府征用，无法为用户正常发送，只能先行为用户办理退款；官方声明中并未给出“订单运输途中被征用”的解释。
In the case of express delivery, orders for mandatory refunds were explained by the dolphins as being "requisitioned by the government and cannot be delivered normally to users. Instead, the official statement did not give an explanation for" requisition in transit. "
平台集中打击在用户频繁被假口罩、虚假发货等问题困扰时，其实各大电商平台也一直在出台政策打击问题商家。
The platform focuses on the users are often bogus masks, false delivery problems, and other problems, in fact the major electrical business platforms have also been issued policies to combat business problems.
据阿里平台治理部相关负责人给出的数据，疫情期间，阿里已拦截、删除可疑问题口罩57万件，15家店铺因严重违规被永久清退，其中5家被移送执法机关、追究法律责任。
During the outbreak, Ali stopped and removed 570,000 suspected problem masks, and 15 shops were permanently dismissed for serious irregularities, five of which were handed over to law enforcement agencies for legal prosecution, according to figures from the head of the Ali platform's governance department.
阿里官方称，自1月中旬起，阿里巴巴已提高了对口罩等类目商品加强资质审查。
Ali officials say Alibaba has stepped up its efforts to scrutinize commodities such as masks since mid-January.
对不实宣传、滥发商品、疑似假冒伪劣等行为均从重从严从快处理，从限流、屏蔽、下架相关商品，到直接永久关闭问题店铺。
False propaganda, indiscriminate distribution of commodities, and suspected counterfeiting and shoddy behavior are dealt with from severe to fast, from restriction of flow, shielding and unloading of related goods to direct and permanent closure of problem shops.
淘宝也在阶段性的同步公示违规处罚名单。
Taobao also in the stage of synchronized publication of the list of penalties for violations.
而对于虚假发货问题，一位电商从业者向界面新闻记者解释，这是电商行业典型的“老梗”。
But for the false dispatch problem, an electric businessman explains to the interface reporter, this is the typical "old stalker" in the electrical and commercial industry.
对于平台来说，并不是所有的流程都能在电商平台监督，发现问题后，其首先采取的方式是商品下架，鉴别属于哪类违规后，若情况属实再对商家进行处罚。
For the platform, not all processes can be monitored in the electronic commerce platform, after the discovery of the problem, its first way is to remove the goods from shelves, identify the types of violations, and if the situation is true then impose penalties on businesses.
根据拼多多“抗疫工作组”发布的数据，自1月23日至2月4日20时，因涉嫌临时调价、虚假发货和商品质量等问题，拼多多平台在商品的上架前后累计拦截及下架了超过50万件商品。
From January 23 to 20: 00 on Feb. 4, more than 500,000 goods were stopped and pulled off shelves on numerous platforms on suspicion of temporary price adjustments, fake shipments and quality, according to data released by the multi-purpose anti-epidemic team.
根据平台与店铺的商事约定，对涉及虚假宣传和蹭关键词的超过6000家店铺采取限制商品发布等处理措施，关闭清退超过40家店铺。
In accordance with the commercial agreement between the platform and the store, more than 6,000 shops involved in false publicity and keywords were subjected to measures such as restricting the distribution of goods, and more than 40 shops were closed down.
上述人士表示，疫情爆发后，电商平台上的口罩乱象，一部分是由于部分卖家钻空子，另一部分则是作为渠道商的卖家承担了上游工厂与消费者双边的压力。
The people said that after the outbreak, the electrical business platform mask confusion, partly due to some sellers take advantage of the situation, and partly as a channel vendor to assume upstream factory and consumer bilateral pressure.
上游厂商由于三倍的人力工资成本和国家征用，无法向渠道商正常交付，作为渠道商的商家在电商平台进行预售后，需要对下单的消费者履约，然而这时上游的工厂已无法顺利交付或已提高价格，渠道商因此无法对已付款的订单进行发货。
Upstream manufacturers are unable to deliver to the channel business due to triple the cost of manpower and state requisition. As a distributor, the retailer must perform the order to the customer after the pre-sale of the electrical platform. However, the upstream factory has not delivered smoothly or has raised the price, so the drainman cannot ship the paid order.
但对于用户而言，买到假口罩或者遇到虚假发货等问题，不仅会遭遇金钱上的损失，也致使他们错失了购买到正品口罩的时机。
But for users, problems such as buying a fake mask or getting a fake delivery result not only in financial losses, but also in missed opportunities to buy genuine masks.
上海大邦律师事务所高级合伙人、律师游云庭分析，在法律上，这样的事件属于电子商务的小额纠纷，很难通过申诉实现法定的3倍赔偿，一般以退款为主要的调解手段。
The senior partner and lawyer of Big Bang Law Firm in Shanghai was analyzed. Legally, such incidents are small e-commerce disputes, and it is difficult to achieve the statutory three-fold compensation through appeal. Refunds are generally the main means of mediation.
而在当前的局面下，贩卖假口罩事实上是令消费者丧失了后续的交易机会，消费者有权到工商局以及消费者权益保护委员会进行投诉。
In the current situation, selling fake masks effectively deprives consumers of follow-up trading opportunities, and consumers have the right to complain to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Consumer Protection Commission.
对于平台处理违规商家的方式，游云庭解释，平台若在发现商家售假后未及时下架，需要对后续的消费者承担连带责任。
As for the platform's handling of illegal businesses, Yun Ting explained that if the platform did not leave the store after the sale of timely, the need for follow-up consumers to assume joint and several liability.
目前，消费者若要举报商家和平台，可以通过挂号信与网站两种方式对消费者权益保护委员会进行举报。
At present, if consumers want to report businesses and platforms, they can report to the Consumer Protection Commission by registered letter and website.
对于口罩骗局及乱象，国务院联防联控机制在2月8日的发布会中表示，假冒伪劣口罩已经成为不法分子非法牟利的手段，考虑到它的特殊危害性，市场监管部门对其采取顶格处罚，已立案查处320多件。
Fake masks have become a means of illegal profits, and given their special dangers, the market regulator has taken drastic measures to punish them, the State Council's Joint Prevention and Control Mechanism said at a press conference on Feb. 8.
在未来，要打击囤积居奇、串通涨价、未按规定取得许可和备案擅自生产销售、生产销售不符合安全标准的产品以及过期失效产品等行为。
In the future, it is necessary to crack down on hoarding, collusion in price hikes, unauthorized production and sale without the required licenses and records, and the production and sale of products that do not meet safety standards, as well as expired products.
市场监管部门在查办案件中发现涉嫌犯罪的，会及时向公安部门移送，追究当事人的刑事责任。
If the market supervisory department discovers the suspected crime in the investigation and handling of the case, it will transfer to the public security department in time to investigate the criminal responsibility of the parties.
产能缺口太大产能缺口太大仍是用户买不到口罩的核心原因。
Too big a capacity gap is still at the heart of users' inability to buy masks.
据公开数据，我国2018年全国口罩生产量为45亿只，2019年生产量预计在53亿只。
China produced 4.5 billion face masks in 2018 and is expected to produce 5.3 billion in 2019, according to open data.
若以14亿人口数计算，将2019年全年生产的口罩分到全国人民手中，平均每人一年只能得到3.8只口罩。
At 1.4 billion people, annual production of 2019 masks distributed throughout the country, the average person can only get 3.8 masks a year.
工业和信息化部新闻发言人、运行监测协调局局长黄利斌在此前的发布会上表示，我国是世界上最大的口罩生产和出口国，最大产能每天2000多万只。
China is the world's largest producer and exporter of face masks, with a maximum capacity of more than 20 million masks a day, Huang Libin, spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology and head of the Operations Monitoring and Coordination Bureau, said at a press conference.
N95医用防护口罩是大家关注的焦点，但目前N95医用防护口罩的产量每天只有60万只。
The N95 is the focus of attention, but the current production of N95 medical masks is only 600,000 a day.
工业和信息化部原材料工业司司长王伟解释，买不到口罩的原因是多方面的：其一是消杀用品生产企业在疫情爆发时开工率总体不高，产能还未完全释放；其二是全产业链配套受到阶段性制约，而疫情期间包装瓶生产企业多数还未复工。
Wang Wei, head of the Raw Materials Industry Department at the Ministry of Industry and Informatization, explained that the reasons for not buying masks were manifold: first, the overall low start-up rate of disinfectant manufacturers at the outbreak of the outbreak and the incomplete release of production capacity; and second, stage-specific constraints on the entire industry chain, with the majority of packaging bottle manufacturers still not working during the epidemic.
产能正在逐渐复苏。
Capacity is gradually recovering.
2月9日，国家发展改革委经贸司副司长陈达表示，除湖北省外，全国其他30个省份均已部署安排企业复工复产。
On February 9, Chen Da, deputy director of economic and trade affairs department of the National Development and Reform Commission, said all 30 provinces except Hubei province had deployed to reactivate enterprises.
截止到2月7日，全国口罩生产企业按产能计算的复工率已经达到73%，其中医用口罩产能利用率达87%；全国重点监测的粮食生产、加工企业的复工率达94.6%。
As of February 7, the recovery rate for mask-producing enterprises nationwide had reached 73 percent, with the utilization rate of 87 percent for medical masks.
但必须注意的是，即便口罩产能全面恢复甚至翻倍，也是无法满足14亿人每天换一个口罩的需求的。
But it is important to note that even a full recovery or even a doubling of mask capacity will not meet the needs of 1.4 billion people to replace one mask per day.
所以，对于有戴口罩出行的需求的普通民众来说，只能寻找一些靠谱的途径抢购正规口罩；另外，则是要科学合理重复利用现有的口罩。
So, for ordinary people who need to travel with masks, it is necessary to find some reliable ways to buy regular masks, and to use the existing masks scientifically and rationally.
据界面新闻记者的不完全统计：目前在小米有品和苏宁极物中，可预定韩国KF94型号的口罩；名创优品小程序可预售基础一次性口罩；洋码头APP内可买到15个399元的KN95口罩；京东、天猫上的振德医疗、派顿医疗等医疗器械产品旗舰店，也会不定时对口罩进行补货。
According to incomplete statistics of interfacial journalists, KF94 masks can be ordered at present in millet and Suning Polar Products, 15 KN95 masks can be bought in APP, 15 KN95 masks can be bought in the Pier APP, Zhende Medical on Jing Dong and Tiancat, Patton Medical Device Products, etc.
为了对口罩的型号和来源进行溯源，苏宁易购于2月7日上线了“疫情防护医疗用品生产企业查询”功能，可利用企业名称和产品名称查询到口罩的生产企业信息以及使用范围，该系统也支持防护服、医疗帽等医疗用品的信息溯源。
To trace the types and origins of masks, Suning Yi-sheng launched the Feb. 7 Epidemic Prevention Medical Products Manufacturer Query feature, which uses enterprise names and product names to find out the company information and scope of mask production. The system also supports traceability of medical supplies such as protective clothing and medical caps.
对于在资源紧缺的情况下，口罩被重复使用的做法，华山医院抗生素研究所临床医生、现上海市公共卫生临床中心医生赵旭也是赞同的。
Zhao Xu, a clinician at the Institute of Antibiotics at Huashan Hospital and now a doctor at the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, agrees.
他对界面新闻表示，在上海等以输入性病例为主的城市，居民之间的相互传播情况较少，事实上大家的口罩并不是出门就“脏”了，保持一米以上的距离、少出门、人人都戴口罩的情况下，病毒可被有效防控，也可以减少口罩的消耗。
He told Interface News that in cities such as Shanghai, where imported cases predominate, residents are less likely to spread each other. In fact, everyone's face masks are not "dirty" outside the home. Keeping more than a metre away, leaving fewer homes and wearing masks for everyone can be controlled effectively and reduce mask consumption.
2月11日举行的国务院联防联控机制发布会上，中国疾控中心流行病学首席专家吴尊友同样表示，有些一次性戴七八个口罩出门的方式完全没有必要，对普通老百姓来说，口罩可重复使用，也没必要打一次电话喝口水就马上扔掉，只要坚持在人员集中的地方戴口罩、勤洗手，普通老百姓就能有效防控新型冠状病毒。
Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, also told a press conference on Feb. 11 that some one-off wear of 78 face masks is totally unnecessary. For ordinary people, the mask can be reused and thrown away without a single phone call.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
口罩骗局花样频出，为什么电商上的口罩一只难求？。
Mask scam pattern frequently, why is the mask on electric business difficult to get?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "口罩骗局花样频出，为什么电商上的口罩一只难求？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; Why is an electric mask hard to find?
var msg_desc = "即使在网上买到了口罩，你也不一定能够用上——延迟发货是最普遍的情况；发货了，订单还要面临虚假发货、商品是三无产品的风险。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; even if you bought a mask online, you may not be able to use it - late shipment is the most common situation; and when shipped, orders face the risk of false shipment and three-nil merchandise.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
