海外滞留的游客，你们不在孤岛上。
Overseas stranded tourists, you are not alone on the island.
卡生。
Mr. Carson.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
北京时间1月31日，世界卫生组织宣布新冠肺炎是突发公共卫生事件后，中国出入境的国际航班大规模削减。
On January 31, the World Health Organization announced a major cut in international flights to and from China after the World Health Organization declared pneumonia to be a public health emergency.
根据去哪儿网的数据显示：1月30日被取消和限制销售的出入境航班数量占比达到了17%，1月31日取消出入境航班超过40%，2月1日变成49%，在2月2日接近55%。
The number of cancelled and restricted flights reached 17 per cent on January 30, more than 40 per cent on 31 January, 49 per cent on 1 February and close to 55 per cent on 2 February, according to data on where to go.
这次航班的调整涉及69个国家，140余家航司，共计1000余条航线。
The flights involved 69 countries, more than 140 shipping departments, a total of more than 1,000 routes.
调整数量最多的除了中美、中澳航线外，主要集中在中国周边的日韩和东南亚航线，这些航线均是中国人境外游的热门航线。
Apart from the China-US and China-Australia routes, the largest number of adjustments have been in China's neighboring Japan, South Korea and Southeast Asia, which are popular routes for Chinese outbound travel.
随着春节后返程高峰的到来，直飞中国航线的取消导致各个国家不同程度上出现了中国游客的滞留情况。
With the coming of the back-to-back rush after Spring Festival, the cancellation of direct flights to China has led to the retention of Chinese tourists in various countries to varying degrees.
记者 | 卡生小纤2月3日的凌晨发布了一条微博，从菲律宾的首都马尼拉飞往北京、上海、成都、广州等直飞航班全部被取消，当天晚上有上千名中国游客聚集在马尼拉机场。
AT THE dawn of February 3, Carson Microfiber issued a microblog announcing the cancellation of all direct flights from Manila, the Philippines' capital, to Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu and Guangzhou, where thousands of Chinese tourists gathered at Manila airport that evening.
从她的描述中可见场面一度十分混乱，很多老人和小孩没有地方休息，一晚上无法合眼，戴着口罩在等菲律宾大使馆的安排。
She described a chaotic scene in which many elderly people and children were left without a place to rest, unable to shut their eyes overnight and wearing masks waiting for the Philippine Embassy to arrange for them.
这也是返程高峰在海外曝出的第一例中国游客大批量滞留他国的消息。
It was also the first time Chinese tourists have been stranded in large numbers overseas at the height of their return journey.
小纤提到，在出国之前她预订的是南航的机票，但在2号时被自动取消。
Xiao Fen mentioned that she had booked a ticket for China Southern before going abroad, but it was cancelled automatically on the 2nd.
很快她重新预订上了宿务太平洋航空公司从塔比拉兰到马尼拉后直飞广州的机票。
Soon she booked a new ticket for Cebu Pacific Airways from Tabaran to Manila to Guangzhou.
在抵达机场时，她已经看到了许多中国的滞留游客，但她已经在塔比拉兰顺利值机，而且是联程机票，所以看上去后半段行程应该可以顺利登机，正当她庆幸之余才发现自己的航班5J286出现在了被取消航班之列。
By the time she arrived at the airport, she had seen a lot of stranded Chinese tourists, but she was on duty in Tablaram and on a connecting flight, so it looked as if the second half of the trip should have boarded, just as she was thankful that her flight 5J286 had been canceled.
当天晚上，滞留乘客中有人建了群，都是和她一样滞留菲律宾的乘客，群里刚开始有300多人，后来很快就到了上限，随着第二个群、第三个群的建立，机场的人越来越多。
That night, a crowd of stranded passengers, all of whom were stranded in the Philippines like her, began with more than 300 people and soon reached the upper limit. With the establishment of the second and third group, the number of people at the airport increased.
大家戴着口罩，或席地而坐，或是找个地方打一个盹。
People wear masks, sit on the floor, or take a nap somewhere.
人越来越多，滞留者们开始有些慌乱，开始担心起是否能够回国。
More and more people, the stranded people began to panic, began to worry about whether or not to return to the country.
小纤说，后来有人打通了菲律宾大使馆的电话，大使馆来了人开始和机场人员进行沟通，乘客中有人担当起了志愿者的角色，帮助所有滞留乘客信息。
Later, Xiao said, someone called the Philippine embassy. Someone from the embassy began communicating with the airport staff. Some of the passengers took on the role of volunteers, helping with all the passengers' information.
小纤说，那晚上大使馆的人一直在协调航班，大家排起了长队等候大使馆的统一安排。
The embassy staff had been co-ordinating flights that night, and there was a long queue waiting for the embassy to come together, Xiao said.
小纤当时就觉得这么多人在特殊时期这么聚集在一起很有风险，她开始研究起了转机路线。
The young man thought it was risky for so many people to get together at such a special time. She began to study the connecting route.
根据当时能从马尼拉出发的航班情况，她选择了三条线路，A是香港转机；B是曼谷转机；C是澳门转机。
According to the availability of flights from Manila at the time, she chose three routes, A for Hong Kong; B for Bangkok; and C for Macao.
滞留群里的信息很多也很混乱，大家的情绪被“滞留”一事搞得有些焦虑，他们中大多数人担心第三方国家（或地区）政策有变，形成二次滞留，或是到了第三方国家（或地区）中转签证无效被遣返回出发地。
Much of the information in the stranded groups is confusing, with some anxiety about the "gridlock," with most of them worried about a change in third-party national (or regional) policies, resulting in a secondary stay, or being sent back to their point of departure when a third-country (or regional) transit visa was invalid.
小纤查看了最新更新的出入境情况，她觉得目前看来曼谷的情况在东南亚国家中相对宽松，从曼谷转道回国可能会是被取消航班概率最小的国家，随即她购买了前往曼谷转机的机票。
She felt Bangkok was relatively easy for Southeast Asian countries, and that a switch from Bangkok could be the least likely country to be canceled. She then purchased a flight ticket to Bangkok.
她购买的转机机票并不是联程机票，需要在取行李后再过一次安检，所以泰国尚未取消的落地签证帮了她大忙。
She bought a connecting flight that wasn't a connecting flight and needed to go through a security check after she picked up her baggage, so Thailand's visa-on-arrival has not been canceled.
大概十分钟的时间落地签证顺利办好，小纤说，谁都是第一次遇到这样的特殊情况，心里没底，直到广播里传来登机的消息，她一颗悬着的心才算踏实下来。
It was the first time anyone had ever had such a special case, said Xiaofiao. It was not until the announcement of boarding that her suspended heart was reassured.
小纤顺利回国之后也了解了一些和她一样在其他国家和地区转机的伙伴，基本上没有特殊情况下都顺利回到了国内。
After his successful return to China, Xiao Fen also learned about some of her transit partners in other countries and regions.
在菲律宾机场等候大使馆安排的人中，也已经分批次地陆续回国，但由于滞留人数较多，所以还是有许多人在排队买票。
Groups of people waiting for embassy arrangements at Philippine airports have also been returning home in batches, but many are queuing up to buy tickets because of the large number of people staying.
直到昨天，菲律宾游客滞留的情况得到了很大的缓解，笔者在小纤的帮助下进入了菲律宾滞留群，2月5日的消息对于很多滞留者来说有了更明确的转机方案，同时，菲律宾当地的旅行社也开始组织包机服务，志愿者小梅是长居在菲律宾的中国导游，她说10号之前，每天都有一班菲律宾皇家航空公司提供的包机服务可以从马尼拉直飞南宁，每一个航班提供150个位置。
Until yesterday, the stay of Filipino tourists was greatly alleviated. With the help of Xiao Fen, the writer entered the Philippines with the help of Xiao Fen, a local travel agency in the Philippines who started organizing charter services for many stranded people.
除菲律宾乘客滞留的情况外，我身边还有许多在境外旅行的朋友遇到相同的困境，“最让人忧心的并不是航班取消，毕竟现在中国的疫情大家都能理解。
In addition to the Philippine passengers stranded, I have many friends traveling abroad who are experiencing the same dilemma. "The most worrying thing is not the flight cancellations, after all, the current situation in China is understandable.
最让人焦虑的是航司客服电话极难打通，驻华大使馆的求助电话一直占线，订票平台电话打通后我发现我前面有一万多人在排队解决问题，感觉自己处于‘三不管’地界。
The most worrying thing is that the service line is extremely difficult to get through. The help line from the embassy in China has been busy. When I opened the ticket platform, I found more than 10,000 people in front of me queuing up to solve their problems.
”陆苗现在人在澳大利亚，中澳直飞全面取消，她只能琢磨着先买到其他国家的机票，再从第三方国家转机回国。
"Lu is now in Australia, where direct flights to Australia have been canceled, leaving her to ponder buying tickets from other countries before returning home from a third country.
但困扰又来了，许多还有航线的转机国家如果不售卖联程机票的话，就需要面临中转签证的问题。
But the hassle has returned, with many transit countries still on routes facing problems with transit visas if they do not sell connecting flights.
对于境外中国乘客面临航班取消，担心二次滞留，以及难以拨通客服电话的情况，我咨询了去哪儿订票平台的客服经理戴燚华，他给出了一些很实际的建议。
I asked Dai Zhenhua, the customer service manager at the booking platform, for practical advice about Chinese passengers facing flight cancellations, fears of a second stay and difficulties in dialling through customer service calls.
以去哪儿网为例，如果有海外乘客的航班取消，可以拨打境外的热线电话（0086）010-82872677，目前购票平台的境外优先级别正在提升，这意味着你可以比拨打境内电话95117客服热线，获得更高概率的接通可能。
For example, if an overseas passenger's flight is cancelled, you can call an overseas hotline (0086) 010-82872677 and the overseas priority of the purchase platform is being raised, which means you can get a higher probability of being connected than by calling 95117 in-country.
如果境外航班取消，平台方的建议是直接退票而不是改签。
If an overseas flight is cancelled, the platform's proposal is to refund the ticket directly instead of resigning it.
改签在目前相对混乱的状况下效率很低，需要通过平台联系代理，再通过代理联系航空公司，如果有航线停航的情况，还要面临不同航空公司之间的签转问题，时间上需要等待相当长的时间。
In the current relatively chaotic situation, renaming is inefficient and requires a considerable amount of time to contact the agent through the platform and the airline through the agent, as well as between different airlines if there is a route down.
如果你所处于的国家已经全面停止直飞中国的航班，那么去往第三方国家中转是回国的唯一选择。
If you are in a country that has stopped direct flights to China, transit to a third country is the only option.
根据第三方国家对于中转许可以及中转签证要求来看，平台方给出了三个目前最好的选择。
Based on the requirements of third-party countries for transit permits and transit visas, the Platform offers three best current options.
东南亚已经停直飞航线的国家，可以首选曼谷作为中转地；如果从美国飞往中国，可以首选在日本转机；如果从欧洲回中国，最佳中转地是迪拜，中东航司对于中国籍乘客可能会要求健康体检报告。
Countries in Southeast Asia that have already stopped direct flights could choose Bangkok as a transit point; if they fly from the US to China, via Japan would be preferred; if they return to China from Europe, Dubai would be the best place to stop.
值得注意的是，护照湖北籍贯，以及此前两周曾去过武汉等情况目前均会对签证和中转造成影响。
It is worth noting that the origin of the passport Hubei, as well as previous visits to Wuhan in the previous two weeks, will now have an impact on visas and transit.
如果游客遇到在机场被取消航班的突发情况，最好的方式不是打电话平台和航空公司，大概率是接不通或者是长时间等候。
The best way to deal with unexpected cancellations at the airport is not to call platforms and airlines.
在机场，可以直接在航空公司设立的值机柜台的服务点咨询第三方国家政策和最佳的转机组合机票情况。
At airports, third-party national policies and best-in-class package tickets can be consulted directly at check-in counter service points set up by airlines.
国际航空协会规定，如果签证不符合入境（过境），该航空公司有责任承运该乘客回出发地，所以每一家承运的航空公司为了避免出现遣返事件，会拒绝不符合政策的旅客登机，并在购票时给予提示。
IATA imposes a duty on the airline to transport the passenger back to the point of departure if the visa does not meet the entry (transit) criteria, so each carrier, in order to avoid a return incident, will refuse to allow passengers who do not comply with the policy to board the aircraft and give advice when purchasing tickets.
以上，是平台方给出滞留海外的中国游客回国的一些建议。
Above, the platform gives some suggestions for Chinese tourists staying overseas to return home.
在这个建议背后，需要明确的一件事情是，目前所有国家的航线虽然有大量取消，但并不意味着无法返回中国。
One thing that needs to be clear behind this proposal is that the fact that all countries now have a large number of cancelled flights does not mean that they cannot return to China.
如果你正好是滞留在他国的一员，面对此时此刻的孤立无援，你知道，你并不是身处一座孤岛。
If you happen to be one of those people who are stuck in another country and are isolated at this very moment, you know, you are not on an island.
（本文图片由受访者提供）作者档案卡生吸猫续命，写字浪天涯。
(Photo provided by the interviewee) Author file Cat suck cat life, write long horizon.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@卡生_请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道#我在疫情一线#话题征稿持续进行中《三联生活周刊》全媒体现面向所有读者征稿。
Twenty-six minutes ago Triple Life Weekly Personal Weibo @ Carson _ please stamp! Triple Life Weekly New Crown Pneumonia Series # I'm on the line of the epidemic # # Writing is in progress The Triple Life Weekly's entire media is now open to all readers.
包括但不限于：奋斗在疫情一线的医护人员、媒体同行们的故事，专业人士对接下来防疫工作的建议……此次征稿形式不限：文字（1500～2500字为佳）、图片（原创拍摄）、音频视频（原创录制）都欢迎。
It includes, but is not limited to, the stories of medical professionals and media professionals who are on the frontlines of the epidemic, as well as professional advice on what to do next... The draft is open-ended: text (1500 ~ 2500 words), photos (original), audio and video (original).
大家携手，共度难关！注：请务必保证故事真实、客观，不造谣、不传谣。
Please make sure the story is true and objective, and do not spread rumors or rumors.
《三联生活周刊》微信公号投稿邮箱：zhuangao@lifeweek.com.cn来稿格式：#我在疫情一线#➕标题《三联生活周刊》官方微博参与话题：#我在疫情一线#《三联生活周刊》中读APP投稿邮箱（音频投稿为主，5分钟以内为佳）zhongdu@lifeweek.com.cn期待你的来稿！⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
# I'm on the line of the epidemic heading # The official Weibo topic: # I'm reading APP submissions (mainly audio contributions, preferably within 5 minutes) in the epidemic line # Triple Lifestyle Weekly, and I look forward to your contribution!
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
卡生。
Mr. Carson.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
海外滞留的游客，你们不在孤岛上。
Overseas stranded tourists, you are not alone on the island.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "海外滞留的游客，你们不在孤岛上";。
var msg _ title = & quot; overseas stranded tourists, you didn't & quot; at & quot; on lonely island;;
var msg_desc = "随着春节后返程高峰的到来，直飞中国航线的取消导致各个国家不同程度上出现了中国游客的滞留情况。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; With the arrival of its return flight peak after the Spring Festival, the cancellation of direct flights to China has led to varying degrees of Chinese visitor retention.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
