总量超1500万平方米，上海写字楼打响防疫战。
The total of more than 15 million square meters, Shanghai office opened the epidemic prevention war.
马一凡。
Ma Yifan.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：视觉中国记者：马一凡“ 突发的疫情对未来写字楼的交付标准、运营管理和新技术运用提出更高要求。
Source: China Visual Correspondent: Ma Yifan "the outbreak of the outbreak of office delivery standards, operation management and new technology to put forward higher requirements.
”整个城市拥有超过1500万平方米的高端写字楼总量，数百万白领将在高人员密度环境下办公——节后白领复工潮渐近，上海的写字楼管理方们压力山大。
With more than 15m square metres of high-end office space in the city, millions of white-collar workers will be working in a high-density environment as white-collar workers return to work after the holiday and office managers in Shanghai are under pressure.
严峻的疫情形势下，面对上班人流，大部分写字楼都尽量做足防疫措施。
Under the severe epidemic situation, facing the flow of people to work, most offices do their best to do full immunization measures.
重新布局动线、一天多次测体温、关闭中央空调、加大新风系统排风量、员工分AB组、错峰搭乘电梯等都已经是常规应对了。
Re-layout of the dynamic line, temperature multiple times a day, close the central air conditioning, increase the ventilation system ventilation, staff sub-AB group, staggered peak use of elevators have been a routine response.
在陆家嘴一座超高层写字楼工作的白领温瑕，体验了一个特殊的上班日。
A white-collar worker working in an ultra-high-rise office in Lujiazui experienced a special working day.
过去哪怕外面大雪纷飞，陆家嘴的超甲级写字楼里都会保持着20摄氏度以上的恒温，而节后复工的第一天，她和同事们都穿着羽绒服走进了办公室——在开工前，公司给员工们建议，由于大楼中央空调将关闭，所有人都需要做好御寒保暖。
Even if it snowed outside, Lujiazui's ultra-class A offices would remain above 20 degrees Celsius, and on the first day after the holiday, she and her colleagues walked into the office in down-fitting outfits -- advising employees that everyone needed to stay warm because the building's central air conditioner would be shut down.
过去，工作日的午餐常常是在公司附近的餐厅、美食广场或者靠外卖解决，午饭高峰期陆家嘴区域的餐厅总是一位难求，而今年温瑕节后上班的第一餐，是自带的便当。
In the past, lunch on weekdays used to be served in restaurants near the company, in a gourmet square or by take-out. The restaurant in the Lujiazui area was always hard to find during lunch hours, and this year's first meal at work after Wimbledon was a take-out.
一家机构曾统计过，上海高档写字楼八成白领都不会自带饭，有的人是没时间、怕麻烦，有人是抹不开面子。
An organization has statistics, high-end office buildings in Shanghai eighty percent of white-collar workers will not bring their own meals, some people are not time, afraid of trouble, some are face-saving.
“但现在绝大多数同事都是自己带饭的，公司还安排了大家错峰使用微波炉和茶水间，有一小部分没有条件自制便当的同事，带了自热小火锅来吃。
"But now most of my colleagues bring their own meals. The company also arranges for people to stagger their microwave ovens and tea rooms.
公司还给大家准备了方便面、饼干等速食，总之不建议大家去外面吃或者叫外卖。
The company also prepared instant noodles, biscuits and other fast food, in general do not recommend that we go out to eat or order take-out.
”温瑕表示。
'he said.
另外一个特殊的情况是，原本以为等电梯要排队的她，结果发现大堂里的人寥寥无几，电梯既不需要等，也完全不拥挤。
In another particular case, she was expected to wait in line until she found that there were few people in the lobby and the elevator was neither waiting nor crowded at all.
“比平时的情况还要好，以前我们早上高峰期都需要排队五六分钟才能挤上电梯。
"It was better than usual, we used to have to stand in line for five or six minutes during the morning rush hour.
”这也意味着复工首日仍有大量员工并未真正到岗。
This also means that a large number of employees did not actually arrive on the first day of work.
温瑕说自己在公司里也是特例，首先不是所有团队都需到岗，非常有必要到岗的团队才派人来到办公室，其次从外地返沪未满14天隔离期的员工不可以回办公室，而温瑕是上海人，没有离开过上海，因此才能成为公司首批到岗员工。
Wen said he is also a special case in the company, first, not all the team need to be on duty, it is very necessary for the team to come to the office, and then returned from abroad to Shanghai less than 14 days isolation period can not return to the office, and Wenfang is a Shanghai native, has not left Shanghai, so can become the company's first staff.
这栋写字楼是温瑕所在公司旗下的物业，她们公司还细心地给首批到岗员工配发了口罩、免洗消毒洗手液等防护品，还在多点增设了空气消毒剂、预防药品等。
The office, owned by Wimfang's company, also carefully distributed face masks and sanitized hand sanitizers to the first batch of employees, adding air disinfectants and preventive medicine at many points.
在上海南京西路核心商圈，获得LEED铂金级认证的写字楼兴业太古汇措施做得更为严密。
In Shanghai Nanjing West Road core business circle, the acquisition of LEED platinum-grade certification of the Taigu exchange measures more closely.
该项目由香港兴业国际和太古地产共同开发管理，包含两幢高层写字楼，分别高250米和170米，总建面17万平方米。
Jointly developed and managed by Societe Generale International and Swire Real Estate, the project comprises two high-rise buildings, 250 metres and 170 metres respectively, with a total construction area of 170,000 square metres.
在复工前的2月4日、2月5日、2月7日，兴业太古汇物业管理办公室接连就复工后的管控事宜向全体租户发出通告。
On February 4, February 5 and February 7, before the resumption of work, the Property Management Office of Socrates issued a series of circulars to all tenants on post-resumption control matters.
在2月4日发出的第一份通告中，兴业太古汇要求所有进入写字楼物业的员工和访客都要佩戴口罩，摸查各租户预估的返工人数，并呼吁各租户尽量减少工作人员返回办公室工作。
In its first circular issued on February 4, SocGen requested all staff and visitors entering office premises to wear masks, check the estimated number of reworkers per tenant, and appealed to tenants to minimize staff return to their offices.
同时，兴业太古汇向租户推荐了“第一小组和第二小组”策略，建议租户将同一团队人员分为两个组，第一小组自2月10日起在办公室工作两周，第二小组成员则在家远程办公两周，两周后第一小组和第二小组交换办公地点。
Meanwhile, SocGen recommended the "Team One" and "Team Two" strategy to tenants, suggesting that tenants divide the same team into two groups, with the first team working two weeks in the office from February 10, the second group working remotely for two weeks, and the first and second teams exchanging offices two weeks later.
兴业太古汇称，自己公司亦是采用这一策略。
Societe Generale said its own company is also using this strategy.
此外，兴业太古汇将不同楼层分组，每组均有不同的上下班和午饭时间，这样可以有效减少电梯与大堂的人流，避免拥挤和排队。
In addition, SocGen will group different floors, each with different working hours and lunch hours. This will effectively reduce the flow of people between the lift and the lobby, and avoid congestion and queuing.
比如低区14楼-16楼为A组，11楼-13楼为B组，8楼-10楼为C组，这三组早上到达写字楼的时间分别被规定为8时、8时30分、9时，下班时间分别规定为17时、17时30分、18时。
For example, Group A on the 14th - 16th floors, Group B on the 11th - 13th floors and Group C on the 8th - 10th floors of the Low Block, have been scheduled for 8: 00, 8: 30 and 9: 00 a.m. respectively. The hours off are set at 17: 00, 17: 30 and 18: 00, respectively.
兴业太古汇还建议，每次乘梯人数不超过6人，并且不鼓励租户员工使用客梯进行楼层间的穿梭，即使在午餐高峰期也希望租户能遵守规定。
Societe Generale also recommends not more than six people per ride, and does not encourage tenants to use the escalators to shuttle between floors, even during the lunch rush hour.
隔天，兴业太古汇再发通告，补充要求租户公司必须提前24小时提交预约的访客名单，所有人员体温超过37.3°C便不可进入办公楼。
The following day, Société Générale reissued a circular, in which it was added that tenant companies were required to submit advance visitors' lists 24 hours in advance and that all persons with body temperature in excess of 37.3 ° C were not allowed to enter the building.
2月7日，兴业太古汇宣布将停止所有的空调供应，包括办公区域、公共走道、电梯厅、厕所、所有客梯货梯等，这是为了降低一切病毒传播的可能性。
On 7 February, Société Générale announced that it would discontinue all air-conditioning supplies, including office areas, public aisles, lift lobbies, toilets and all passenger escalators, in order to reduce the likelihood of any virus spreading.
同时将打开新风系统，通过光触媒过滤器和静电过滤器来帮助减少细菌与病毒。
A new air system will also be opened to help reduce bacteria and viruses through photocatalyst filters and electrostatic filters.
2月10日复工首日，兴业太古汇更是展现了对每一个细节的紧抠，包括每15分钟消毒一次电梯按钮，在楼宇内设立多个点位提供消毒液，机器人自动消毒地面，以及外卖人员不得进入写字楼、改为使用“无接触取餐柜”等措施。
On the first day of its reactivation on February 10, SocGen managed to pick up every detail, including disinfecting the elevator button every 15 minutes, setting up multiple points in the building to provide disinfectant, automating disinfection of the ground by robots, and forbidding takeout staff from entering office buildings and using "touch-free access cabinets."
港资地产商新鸿基在上海有多处超高层甲级写字楼，包括陆家嘴的国金中心、淮海中路的iapm环贸广场、徐汇ITC等。
Hong Kong-owned property developer Sun Hung Kai has a number of super-high-rise Grade A offices in Shanghai, including the State Gold Centre in Lujiazui, the iapm roundabout on Huaihai Central Road, and Xuhui ITC.
万一一栋人员密集的超高层写字楼发现了体温异常者该怎么处理？为了应对复工潮，新鸿基特地做了一套紧急预案。
In case a densely populated ultra-high-rise office finds out what to do with an abnormal body temperature, Sun Hung Kai has made a special emergency plan to cope with the rush.
新鸿基地产对界面新闻记者表示，他们对集团在上海的办公楼项目，包括在商场及写字楼各个出入口都设置了测温点，在办公楼甚至用上了无接触红外测温仪，机器有温度报警功能，一旦遇到体温异常者，就会发出蜂鸣。
Sun Hung Kai Properties told the Interface News that it had set up temperature measuring points at all entrances and exits of its Shanghai offices, including shopping malls and offices, and even a non-contact infrared thermometer in the office building, which has a temperature alarm and sends out buzzing if it encounters an abnormal temperature.
体温异常人员随后将被带到早已经设置好的临时隔离室等待疾控中心人员到来，而物业工作人员则会迅速对其移动动线和所有接触设施彻底消毒。
People with abnormal body temperature will then be taken to a pre-set temporary isolation room to await CDC personnel, who will quickly disinfect their moving wires and all contact facilities.
新鸿基旗下写字楼物业所有一线员工都需要佩戴口罩和手套，上岗前进行体温测量，此外物业内每半小时循环广播一次，提醒所有人进入公共区域都需要佩戴口罩和测温。
All frontline staff of Sun Hung Kai's office properties are required to wear masks and gloves and undergo a temperature check before taking up their duties. In addition, the property is broadcast every 30 minutes to remind everyone to wear masks and temperature measurements when entering public areas.
所有礼宾台均配备了消毒液，有需要的租户、顾客均可使用。
All concierge counters are equipped with disinfectant and can be used by tenants and customers if necessary.
此外，关闭所有公共区域中央空调，加大新风量和排风换气次数。
In addition, close all public areas central air conditioning, increase the number of fresh air and ventilation.
在当下疫情发展控制尚未完全明朗的时期，复工对于写字楼及商业地产的运营构成了巨大挑战，而写字楼物业管理方的一系列应对举措，未来也将可能成为租户在选择物业时的评判因素。
The resumption of work poses a major challenge to office and commercial property operations at a time when control of the epidemic is still not fully clear, and a range of responses from property managers will likely be a factor in judging tenants' choice of property in the future.
仲量联行指出，这次突发事件对提升与健康相关的办公楼楼宇交付标准提出更高层次的要求，具体来说，包括具备新风及回风系统增加紫外线消毒模块、增加非接触式人体体温实施监控系统、具备智能派梯系统集成闸机系统、安装公共区域的自动定期消毒设备等。
The company said the incident required higher levels of building delivery standards for health-related office buildings. Specifically, it included the addition of ultraviolet disinfection modules to new air and back systems, the addition of a non-contact human body temperature monitoring system, an intelligent elevator system integration gate system, and the installation of automatic periodic disinfection equipment in public areas.
第一太平戴维斯则对界面新闻表示，一系列新技术未来可能成为写字楼标配。
First Pacific Davis told Interface News that a range of new technologies could become standard office space in the future.
疫情之后，对流行病管控的力度和技术手段措施上都会加强，比如使用人体热传感监测与云端整合技术，现场实时进行体温检测记录，结合人脸识别技术，可快速标记体表温度异常人群，其检测信息同步至防疫或智慧城市管理平台，实现提前管控、管理疑似病患。
In the wake of the epidemic, efforts and technical measures will be stepped up, such as the use of human thermal sensorimetry and cloud-end integration technology, real-time body temperature monitoring records in situ, and face recognition technology to quickly label populations with abnormal body surface temperatures.
使用写字楼传送机器人，则可以优化电梯使用效率，减少感染机率。
Using office buildings to deliver robots will optimize elevator use efficiency and reduce the risk of infection.
传统的安保消防工作大部分是依赖从业人员的专业度和敬业度，而当前较高的人力成本以及疫情环境的背景下，通过AIoT（人工智能AI + 物联传感IoT）则可以大大减少传统人员的配额，降低人力成本的同时又可实现安全系数、安保效率的提升。
Traditional security firefighting depends mostly on the professionalism and dedication of the employees, and against the background of the current high human cost and epidemic environment, AioT can greatly reduce the quota of traditional personnel, reduce manpower cost and increase safety factor and security efficiency.
除了受疫情影响，写字楼运营压力骤增之外，在疫情之后，可以预见写字楼市场在租赁端也会继续承压。
In addition to the epidemic, the impact of the surge in office operating pressure, in the aftermath of the epidemic, it can be expected that the office market will also continue to bear pressure on the rental market.
仲量联行认为，本次疫情将对中国内地及香港的甲级办公楼市场产生较大不利影响。
Zhong Qian believes that this outbreak will have a major adverse impact on the Mainland of China and Hong Kong office building market.
一方面，疫情在得到全面控制前，租赁活跃度在短期内将显著降温。
On the one hand, rental activity will be significantly reduced in the short term before the epidemic is fully contained.
由于返工的延迟、健康安全的顾虑，实地看房、租赁协议签订、装修等行为短期内均将受到较大限制，房地产决策将会推迟，短期内新增租赁需求或将十分有限。
Due to delays in rework and health and safety concerns, on-site inspection, lease agreements, renovation and other acts will be more limited in the short term, real estate decision-making will be delayed, and in the short term the need for new rental may be very limited.
另一方面，市场及经济环境的不确定性的增加，将显著影响短期内的市场信心，企业将采取更加谨慎的租赁策略。
On the other hand, increased uncertainty in the market and economic environment will significantly affect market confidence in the short term, and companies will adopt a more prudent leasing strategy.
从细分行业来看，仲量联行认为本次疫情短期内对于进出口贸易、零售、旅游及线下教育培训等行业的不利影响或将最为显著。
From a subdivision of the industry, Zhong Qian said the epidemic in the short term for import and export trade, retail, tourism and offline education and training industries will be the most significant adverse impact.
疫情结束后，医药健康和保险产业、线上服务供应商类的TMT行业以及环境保护关联产业会酝酿出新的机遇。
With the end of the epidemic, new opportunities will emerge in the pharmaceutical and insurance industries, the TMT industry in the online service provider category, and the environmental protection-related industries.
在2003年SARS期间，北上广甲级办公楼租金下降持续了约两三个季度，之后快速回归上升轨道，而香港当年在SARS疫情后也经历了办公楼租金从历史低位大幅上升。
During the SARS epidemic in 2003, the rent reduction in the Upper Guangzhou Class A office building continued for about two or three quarters before returning rapidly to an upward trajectory, while Hong Kong experienced a sharp rise in office rents from historic lows after the SARS epidemic.
但仲量联行方面表示，这种情况预计不会重演。
But the bank said it did not expect a repeat of the situation.
当年北上广处于经济快速上升期，而当前这些城市本来已经因为供应新增量过大而处于租金下行期，香港办公楼租金也刚刚从历史高位开始回落，因此本次疫情对办公楼需求产生的负面影响已经显现。
The negative impact of the epidemic on the demand for office buildings has already been felt, as the city was already experiencing a rapid upswing in the economy as a result of the surge in supply, and office rents in Hong Kong had just fallen from historic highs.
不过相较于商业地产大规模减租，写字楼在租金减免上并不积极。
However, compared to the large-scale commercial real estate rent reduction, office rent relief is not active.
部分接受采访的写字楼业主方对界面新闻记者表示，由于疫情尚未明朗，是否会实行租金优惠减免尚不得而知，暂时无法回应。
Some of the office owners interviewed to the interface reporter, because the epidemic is not clear, whether the implementation of rent concessions is not known, temporarily unable to respond.
仲量联行指出，负面影响主要集中于短期市场，从中长期整体市场来看，基本面仍保持稳健，随着后续相关支持政策、进一步深化科技发展及金融开放，办公楼市场仍将具备中长期利好，短期积压的市场需求有望在疫情结束后加速释放。
Zhongquan said the negative impact is mainly concentrated in short-term market, the overall market in the medium and long term, the fundamentals remain sound, as follow-up related support policies, further deepening of technology development and financial opening, the office market will continue to have good medium- and long-term benefits, and the short-term backlog of market demand is expected to accelerate after the epidemic ends.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
总量超1500万平方米，上海写字楼打响防疫战。
The total of more than 15 million square meters, Shanghai office opened the epidemic prevention war.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "总量超1500万平方米，上海写字楼打响防疫战";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "突发的疫情对未来写字楼的交付标准、运营管理和新技术运用提出更高要求。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The outbreak has placed higher demands on future office delivery standards, operations management, and the use of new technology.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
