“我有口罩机却没有熔喷布”，口罩“心脏”价格从2万涨到8万。
"I have a mask machine but no fuse," and the price of the mask's "heart" has risen from 20,000 to 80,000.
侯瑞宁 彭强。
Hou Raining Peng Qiang.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫创意记者：侯瑞宁 彭强“ 熔喷布堪称医用外科口罩和N95口罩的“心脏”。
Photo Source: Toothworm Creativity Journalist: Hou Rining Peng Qiang "Spray cloth is the medical surgical mask and N95 mask" heart.
与口罩生产商相比，熔喷无纺布生产企业并不多。
Compared with mask manufacturers, the melt-blown non-woven production enterprises are not many.
”“我们有了口罩生产线，但买不到熔喷布！”2月12日，跨界生产口罩和消毒液的的比亚迪（002954.SZ）内部人士对界面新闻表示，目前公司发动员工到处寻找熔喷布货源。
"We have a mask production line, but we can't buy a spray!" BYD (002954.SZ), which produces masks and disinfectants across the border, told Interface News on Feb. 12 that the company is mobilizing its staff to look for sources of spray.
此前，比亚迪发布消息称，公司已着手防护物资设备的设计和制造，口罩和消毒液预计在2月17日量产出货。
Earlier, BYD announced that it had started the design and manufacture of protective equipment, masks and disinfectants are expected to be shipped in bulk on February 17.
其中，口罩产能在本月底可达500万只/天。
Mask capacity could reach 5 million per day by the end of this month.
“公司目前一天需要5吨熔喷布。
"The company currently needs five tons of spray a day.
今天，我们找到一家企业签订了十余吨的熔喷布，只够两三天的使用量，而且到货需要约一个月。
Today, we found a company to sign a dozen tons of spray cloth, only two or three days of use, and the arrival of the goods take about a month.
”比亚迪上述内部人士表示。
BYD said the insiders.
缺熔喷布的不只是比亚迪，多家准备跨界生产口罩的企业也面临此难题。
BYD isn't the only one that lacks fusible sprays. Companies preparing to produce masks across the border are also facing the problem.
海南甘霖科技集团是一家从事农业业务的公司。
Hainan Ganlin Technology Group is a company engaged in agricultural business.
该公司总经理对界面新闻记者表示，因农民无法找到足量、可靠的口罩，影响了农业生产工作，他紧急采购了口罩机搭建生产线，希望能够对接足够的熔喷布资源。
As farmers were unable to find enough reliable masks to hamper agricultural production, the company's general manager told Interface News he had purchased a mask machine to build a production line in hopes of docking enough spray.
目前，该公司已与中国石油化工集团有限公司（下称中石化）取得了联系，但熔喷布仍紧缺。
The company has already made contact with China Petroleum and Chemical Group Co., Ltd. (Sinopec), but the jet is still in short supply.
熔喷布堪称医用外科口罩和N95口罩的“心脏”。
The fuse is the heart of the surgical mask and the N95 mask.
医用外科口罩和N95口罩一般采用多层结构，简称为SMS结构：里外两侧为单层纺粘层（S）；中间为熔喷层（M），一般分为单层或者多层。
Medical surgical masks and N95 masks are generally multi-storey structures, known as SMS structures: single-layer spun layers (S) on the inside and outside; and molten layers (M) in the middle, generally divided into single or multiple layers.
其中，外层是做了防水处理的无纺布，主要用于隔绝患者喷出的飞沫；中间的熔喷层是经过特殊处理的熔喷无纺布，具有很好的过滤性、屏蔽性、绝热性和吸油性，是生产口罩的重要原料；里层则是普通无纺布。
Among them, the outer layer is made of waterproof non-woven cloth, mainly used to insulate the droplets of patients; the middle layer is a specially treated fusible non-woven fabric, with good filtration, shielding, insulation and oil-absorbing properties, is an important raw material for mask production; the inner layer is ordinary non-woven fabric.
虽然口罩的纺粘层（S）和熔喷层（M）都属于无纺布，原材料均为聚丙烯，但制作工艺并不相同。
Although the mask spindle (S) and the molten layer (M) are non-woven, the raw materials are polypropylene, but the production process is not the same.
其中，里外两侧的纺粘层纤维直径较粗，在20微米左右；中间的熔喷层纤维直径只有2微米，由一种叫做高熔指纤维的聚丙烯材料制成。
Among them, the inner and outer sides of the spindle fiber diameter is thicker, around 20 microns; the middle layer fiber diameter is only 2 microns, is made of a polypropylene material called high melt finger fiber.
中国是全球最大的无纺布生产国，2018年的无纺布生产量约594万吨，但熔喷无纺布的产量很低。
China is the world's largest non-woven producer, producing about 5.94 million tons of nonwoven fabric in 2018, but the production of fusible jet non-woven fabric is very low.
据中国产业用纺织品行业协会统计，中国非织造布行业的生产工艺以纺粘为主。
According to China's industrial textile industry association statistics, China's non-woven industry production process to textile gluing.
2018年，纺粘非织造布的产量为297.12万吨，在非织造布总产量中占比达50%，主要应用于卫生材料等领域；熔喷工艺占比仅为0.9%。
In 2018, the spinning non-woven fabric produced 2.9712 million tons, accounting for 50 per cent of the total non-woven production, mainly used in areas such as sanitary materials; the melting process accounted for only 0.9 per cent.
由此推算，2018年，国内熔喷非织造布的产量为5.35万吨/年。
From this calculation, 2018, domestic production of non-woven melt-jet production of 53,500 tons / year.
这些熔喷布不仅用于口罩，还用于环境保护材料、服装材料、电池隔膜材料、擦拭材料等。
These fuses are used not only for masks, but also for environmental protection materials, clothing materials, battery diaphragm materials, cleaning materials, etc.
疫情之下，口罩需求量大幅提升。
Demand for masks has increased dramatically with the outbreak.
按照第四次全国经济普查数据，国内法人单位和个体经营户合计就业人口高达5.33亿人，按每人每天一只口罩计算，至少每天需要5.33亿只口罩。
According to data from the fourth national economic census, 533 million people are employed in national labour units and self-employed households combined, requiring at least 533 million face masks per person per day.
工信部的数据显示，当前，国内口罩最大日产能为2000万只。
At present, China has a maximum capacity of 20 million face masks per day, according to the ministry.
口罩缺口巨大，很多企业开始跨界生产口罩。
Mask gaps are huge, and many companies are starting to produce masks across borders.
据天眼查数据，以工商注册变更信息为标准，自2020年1月1日至2月7日，全国超过3000家企业经营范围新增了“口罩、防护服、消毒液、测温仪、医疗器械”等业务。
From January 1 to February 7, 2020, more than 3,000 enterprises across the country added mask, protective clothing, disinfectant, thermometer and medical equipment to their business scope, based on the business registration change information.
与口罩生产商相比，熔喷无纺布生产企业并不多。
Compared with mask manufacturers, the melt-blown non-woven production enterprises are not many.
据界面新闻统计，目前生产熔喷无纺布的企业主要有恒天嘉华非织造有限公司（下称恒天嘉华）、欣龙控股（000955.SZ）、中石化、山东东营俊富无纺布有限公司、量子金舟（天津）非织造布有限公司等。
According to the interface news statistics, the current production of melt-jet non-woven enterprises are mainly Heng Tianjiahua Non-Weaving Co. Ltd. (Heng Tianjiahua), Yan Lung Holdings (000955.SZ), Sinopec, Shandong Dongying Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd., Quantum Jinzhou (Tianjin) Nonwovens Co. Ltd.
恒天嘉华是中国恒天集团与仙桃市嘉华塑料制品有限公司共同出资组建的专业无纺布生产企业。
Heng Tianjiahua is a professional non-woven production enterprise jointly funded by China Hengtian Group and Xiantao Plastic Products Co. Ltd.
中国恒天集团为全球最大纺织机械制造企业。
China Hengtian Group for the world's largest textile machinery manufacturing enterprises.
1月27日，恒天嘉华发布公告称，公司厂区全线投产，产量达到120吨/天，产品包括口罩用面无纺布、熔喷过滤用无纺布、底面用无纺布等。
On January 27, Heng Tianjiahua issued a notice saying that the entire factory site, production of 120 tons / day, including face mask non-woven, non-woven cloth for melt-out filtration, non-woven fabric for the bottom, etc.
病毒防护隔离衣用无纺熔、SMS无纺布供应充足。
Antivirus protective clothing non-woven fusible, SMS non-woven fabric supply adequate.
欣龙控股于1993年7月在海南省创建，1999年在深交所上市，自称是中国无纺业第一家上市企业，也是“国家非织造材料工程技术研究中心”的建设运行单位。
Founded in Hainan Province in July 1993 and listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange in 1999, Xinlong Holdings claims to be the first listed company in China's non-woven industry and the construction and operation unit of the National Research Center for Non-woven Materials Engineering.
据新华社报道，春节期间，欣龙控股生产用于口罩细菌过滤的熔喷无纺布车间24小时运转，以保障对下游口罩生产厂家的原材料供给。
During the Spring Festival, Xinlong Holdings produces a round-the-clock spray-free fabric shop used to filter bacteria for masks to secure raw materials for downstream mask manufacturers, Xinhua reported.
欣龙控股拥有海南、湖北、湖南等生产基地。
Xinlong Holdings has production bases in Hainan, Hubei and Hunan.
春节期间，该公司提供的口罩用无纺布原料，预计可生产近亿只口罩；同时提供的防护服用原材料，预计可生产防护服300多万套。
During the Spring Festival, the company's supply of non-woven materials for masks is expected to produce nearly 100 million masks, while the supply of raw materials for protection is expected to produce more than 3 million protective clothing sets.
作为“三桶油”之一的中石化，也是国内最大的医卫用材料生产商，及医用口罩原料聚丙烯的主要供应商。
Sinopec, one of the three barrels of oil, is also the largest manufacturer of medical and sanitary materials and the main supplier of polypropylene for medical masks.
目前，它也加入了口罩生产的行列。
At present, it also joined the ranks of mask production.
2月6日，中石化在官方微博上发布了一则名为《我有熔喷布，谁有口罩机？》的公告，希望联系口罩机，以及为生产企业提供熔喷布等原料，协调生产口罩。
On Feb. 6, Sinopec posted a notice on its official microblog titled "I Have Fuzzy Cloth, Who Has a Mask Mask Machine?," hoping to contact the mask maker, as well as provide manufacturers with materials such as spray cloth, and coordinate the production of masks.
截至2月7日，中石化已和合作伙伴对接完成11条口罩生产线，即将进入设备安装程序。
As of February 7, Sinopec and partners have completed the docking of 11 mask production line, is about to enter the installation procedures.
初步估算，到2月底，中石化将新增口罩产能60万只/天；3月10日，实现新增产能至100万只/天。
By the end of February, Sinopec is expected to add 600,000 new masks per day; by March 10, it will add another 1 million.
山东东营俊富无纺布有限公司，是香港天乙实业有限公司与广东俊富集团合资兴办的无纺布专业生产企业。
Shandong Dongying Junfu Non-woven Co. Ltd. is a joint venture between Hong Kong Tianyi Industrial Co. Ltd. and Guangdong Junfu Group Co. Ltd.
该公司总投资超过1亿元，目标是建成中国北方大型无纺布生产基地。
With a total investment of more than 100 million yuan, the company aims to build a large non-woven manufacturing base in northern China.
公开资料显示，山东俊富无纺布有限公司是一家熔喷无纺布生产企业，主要为日常防护性口罩、医疗口罩和工业防尘口罩的生产提供原材料。
Open data shows that Shandong Junfu Nonwoven Co. Ltd. is a melt-blown non-woven production enterprise, mainly for daily protective masks, medical masks and industrial dust masks production raw materials.
近日，为保证疫情物资的生产，该公司获得山东省省级财政垫付款使用资金，并可无偿使用半年。
Recently, in order to ensure the production of epidemic materials, the company received the Shandong Province financial advance to use funds, and can be used free of charge for six months.
量子金舟（天津）非织造布有限公司，也是熔喷布、PP/PET双组份无纺布等产品的生产商。
Quantum Jinzhou (Tianjin) Nonwovens Co. Ltd. is also a melt-jet fabric, PP / PET two-component non-woven products manufacturers.
目前，该公司有两条熔喷布生产线，日产4吨产品。
Currently, the company has two production lines of molten cloth, producing four tons of products a day.
除了产量较大的企业外，还有一些日产量仅约1吨的熔喷无纺布小企业，比如大连华纶无纺设备工程有限公司、浙江嘉瑞过滤科技有限公司等。
In addition to the larger production of enterprises, there are only about 1 ton of daily production of fusible non-woven small enterprises, such as Dalian Hua Lun Non-woven Equipment Engineering Co., Zhejiang Jiaorui Filtration Technology Co. Ltd.
大连华纶无纺设备工程有限公司是一家专门从事工程总承包、化纤及无纺布工程设计、设备制造等业务的企业。
Dalian Hua Lun Non-woven Equipment Engineering Co. Ltd. is a company specialized in engineering general contracting, chemical fiber and non-woven engineering design, equipment manufacturing and other businesses.
目前，该公司投入资金，将原有两条熔喷设备生产线（生产空气滤材）改造成口罩滤材生产线。
At present, the company invested in the original two production lines (production of air filter material) into a mask filter production line.
自投产以来，每天供应BFE99医用口罩滤片307万只/天。
Since commissioning, 3.07 million medical mask filters per day have been supplied.
大连华纶无纺设备工程有限公司的一位黄先生对界面新闻表示，当前，公司熔喷布产量为1吨/天，出厂价为每吨7万元，“现在是一天一个价格。
At present, the company's production of melts is 1 ton / day and the factory price is 70,000 yuan per tonne. "Now it is a price per day," Huang told Interface News.
”2月12日，一家熔喷布小厂家给界面新闻记者的报价，已达到每吨8万元。
On Feb. 12, a manufacturer of molten cloth offered interface journalists a price of 80,000 yuan per tonne.
1月28日，人民日报客户端援引的消息称，据当地企业介绍，口罩专用过滤材料熔喷布的市场价格从原来的1.8万元/吨，涨至2.9万元/吨。
On January 28, the People's Daily client quoted a local company as saying that the market price of the filter material for masks had risen from 18,000 yuan to 29,000 yuan a ton.
由此计算，熔喷布的市场价格近期上涨了逾三倍。
As a result, the market price for melts has more than tripled recently.
“未来七天内，我们能扩产到1.5吨-2吨/天；未来两个月，熔喷布产量将扩产到3吨/天。
"In the next seven days, we can expand production to 1.5-2 tons / day, and in the next two months, we can expand production to 3 tons / day.
”黄先生表示。
"said Mr Huang.
浙江嘉瑞过滤科技有限公司也对界面新闻表示，目前公司熔喷布产量为1吨/天，只能供应小客户，无法满足像比亚迪等大公司的供货需求。
Zhejiang Jiaorui Filtration Technology Co. Ltd. also said to the interface news, the company's current production of spray cloth 1 ton / day, can only supply small customers, can not meet the supply of large companies such as BYD.
2月12日晚间，比亚迪向界面新闻回应称，其拥有稳定的货源。
On the night of February 12, BYD responded to Interface News that it had a steady supply of goods.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“我有口罩机却没有熔喷布”，口罩“心脏”价格从2万涨到8万。
"I have a mask machine but no fuse," and the price of the mask's "heart" has risen from 20,000 to 80,000.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "“我有口罩机却没有熔喷布”，口罩“心脏”价格从2万涨到8万";。
var msg _ title = & quot; "I have a mask machine but no molten cloth"; and the price of its "heart" rose from 20,000 to 80,000;;
var msg_desc = "熔喷布堪称医用外科口罩和N95口罩的“心脏”。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; surgical mask and N95 mask.
与口罩生产商相比，熔喷无纺布生产企业并不多。
Compared with mask manufacturers, the melt-blown non-woven production enterprises are not many.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
