隔离14天是多还是少？要用统计学来思考。
Is 14 days of isolation more or less? Think statistically.
梁建章 黄文政。
Liang Jianzhang Huang Wenzheng.
界面新闻                      。
Interface news.
界面新闻。
Interface news.
界面新闻是中国具有影响力的原创财经新媒体，只服务于独立思考的人群。
Interface News is an original and influential new financial media in China, serving only the people who think independently.
图片来源：图虫创意作者：梁建章 黄文政“ 根据已知数据可以模拟出，任意一个病例的潜伏期超过14天的概率为0.838%，超过24天的概率为0.062%。
Source: Toothworm Creative Author: Liang Jianzhang Huang Wenzheng "Based on known data, the probability of a latency of more than 14 days in any one case is 0.838% and the probability of exceeding 24 days is 0.062%."
”当前，中国正在倾全国之力来控制疫情。
China is dumping national efforts to contain the epidemic.
可喜的是，很多地区的疫情开始趋于稳定。
Happily, the epidemic is beginning to stabilize in many areas.
但与此同时，整个社会也在为此付出高昂的经济代价。
At the same time, however, society as a whole is paying a high economic price.
如何在防治疫情和恢复之间找到平衡点，会成为目前乃至今后一段时间内的难题。
Finding a balance between the response to the epidemic and recovery will be a challenge now and for some time to come.
至于解题的关键，就是需要来精准计算不同措施的综合成本和各种情况的概率。
As for the key to the solution, it is necessary to accurately calculate the comprehensive cost of different measures and the probability of various situations.
从根本上看，传染病其实是个随机事件，所以在防治疫情的过程中，我们需要运用更多统计学的概念，来帮助各方面理性对待各种随机现象，从而避免过度恐慌，做出正确的判断和决策。
Infectious diseases are essentially random events, so we need to use more statistical concepts to help us deal with random phenomena rationally, so as to avoid excessive panic and make correct judgments and decisions.
下面我们举两个例子。
Here are two examples.
首先看有关潜伏期的担忧。
Start with concerns about latency.
钟南山团队近日发布最新论文，披露了针对1099例新冠病毒感染者的回顾性研究成果。
Zhong Nan Shan team recently released a new paper, the disclosure of 1099 cases of new crown virus infection retrospective research results.
这篇论文对未来的疫情防治工作提供了重要的决策支持，但其中提到的潜伏期最长可达24天的结论，却引起不少人的恐慌——原来不是一直说潜伏期最长14天吗？现在怎么变成24天了？到底是前面的结论错了，还是病毒已经变异得更加可怕了？当前各地执行的14天隔离期是否需要延长到24天？其实大可不必如此恐慌，几乎所有涉及到群体生理乃至其他特征的结论，都具有一定程度的不确定性。
This paper provides important decision support for future epidemic prevention and treatment, but the conclusion that latency can last up to 24 days has caused a lot of panic - is it not always said that the incubation period is 14 days? Why is the 14-day isolation period extended to 24 days?
要更好地理解这些结论的意义，需要对统计学知识有个基本的了解。
A better understanding of the implications of these conclusions requires a basic understanding of statistical knowledge.
在流行病学中，疾病的潜伏期通常可以用对数正态分布来近似，这种近似的合理性往往可在病原体繁殖动力学上得到一定解释。
In epidemiology, the incubation period of a disease can usually be approximated by a logarithmic normal distribution, and this approximation is often justified in terms of the reproductive dynamics of the pathogen.
简单来说，这相当于假设“ log（潜伏期）”服从正态分布。
Simply put, this is tantamount to assuming that the "log" obeys the normal distribution.
对数正态随机分布都存在一个长尾，尽管长尾部分的概率很小但不是零，如果样本量足够大，长尾部分的小概率事件还是有可能发生的。
There is a long tail in logarithmic normal distribution, although the probability of the long tail is small but not zero. If the sample size is large enough, small probability events in the long tail are possible.
钟南山团队在论文中提到潜伏期的中位数为3.0天，这意味着 log（潜伏期）的均值为1.1。
The Zhong Nan Shan team reported a median incubation period of 3.0 days, meaning the mean log (incubation period) is 1.1.
在均值已经确定的前提下，log（潜伏期）的标准差越大，潜伏期的尾部概率也越大。
The higher the standard deviation of log (latency), the greater the tail probability of latency, provided the mean is determined.
根据钟南山团队的论文，1099例中潜伏期最长为24天。
According to the Zhong Nan Shan team's paper, the incubation period of 1099 cases was 24 days.
我们使用蒙特卡洛模拟方法可以推算出，当 log（潜伏期）的标准差为0.64，1099例中最长潜伏期的中位数为24天。
Using Monte Carlo simulation we can infer that when the standard deviation of log (latency) is 0.64, the median incubation period of 1099 cases is 24 days.
这个对数正态分布中，百分之九十以上患者的潜伏期在7天以内。
In this logarithmic normal distribution, the incubation period for more than 90% of patients is less than 7 days.
（具体计算：（Log 7-log 3）/0.64= 1.32σ，可以查正态分布的计算表格，就可以得到超过1.32个标准差以外的概率<10%）我们还可以模拟出，任意一个病例的潜伏期超过14天的概率为0.838%，超过24天的概率为0.062%。
(Calculation: (Log 7-log 3) / 0.64 = 1.32). A normal distribution table gives you a probability of service exceeding 1.32 standard deviations; 10%.) We can also simulate a incubation period greater than 14 days for any one case of 0.838% and 0.062% for any one case.
显而易见的是，观察到的病例越少，这些病例中的最长潜伏期也越短。
It is clear that the fewer cases are observed, the shorter the maximum incubation period in these cases.
如果我们只观察83个病例，那么其中最长潜伏期的中位数就只有14天。
If we look at only 83 cases, the median incubation period is only 14 days.
如上所述，当观察病例达到1099时，最长潜伏期的中位数就会达到24天。
As mentioned above, when the observed cases reach 1099, the median maximum incubation period reaches 24 days.
所以，不用质疑钟南山以前的结论，或者据此担心病毒发生了变化。
So don't question Zhong Nan Shan's previous conclusions, or worry about a change in the virus.
其实还是同样的病毒，同样的潜伏期随机分布，只是在样本量增加之后，长尾的小概率事件就有可能发生。
In fact, the same virus, the same incubation period random distribution, only after the increase in sample size, the long tail of small probability events may occur.
专家们当然还会据此进行更深入的研究，而普通人却不必为极小概率而过度恐慌。
Experts will, of course, conduct more in-depth research on the basis of this, while ordinary people do not have to panic too much about the slightest probability.
做个简单的类比，如果观察1000人，最高的身高可能是1.9米，如果观察10000个人，最高就可能超过2米，我们都知道，世界上存在着身高2.2米以上的人类，然而，在实践中的建筑标准只要房门高度达到2.0米就够了。
To make a simple analogy, if you look at a thousand people, the highest height can be 1.9 meters. If you look at 10,000 people, the highest height can be more than 2 meters.
同样的道理，不要因担心现有的检测和隔离制度会因为一两个极端病例而被彻底颠覆。
In the same vein, do not fear that existing testing and quarantine regimes will be overthrown by one or two extreme cases.
再来看一下有关气溶胶的担忧。
Take another look at the concerns about aerosols.
近期还有一个引发了不少恐慌情绪的关键词，叫做“气溶胶”。
Recently there has been a lot of panic caused by the key words, called "aerosols."
因为曾有人公开表示，目前确定的新冠肺炎传播途径，除了原先众所周知的直接传播和接触传播之外，还有气溶胶传播。
Because it has been publicly stated that the established route of transmission of pneumonia in the new crown, in addition to the previously well-known direct transmission and contact transmission, is aerosol transmission.
一时间人们又变得紧张了起来，以为只要感染者曾经路过某个区域，然后由其呼吸所产生的“气溶胶”，就可能导致之后途经该区域的其他人感染病毒。
For a while, people became nervous again, thinking that as long as an infected person had passed through an area and then breathed the "aerosol," it could infect others who later passed through the area.
对于这种“气溶胶传播”的说法，之后又有其他权威专家表示，目前尚没有证据显示新型冠状病毒通过气溶胶传播。
There is no evidence that the new coronavirus is being transmitted via aerosols, said a leading expert on the matter.
但即便在澄清之后，部分公众仍然对于这个概念心有余悸。
But even after the clarification, some members of the public are still apprehensive about the concept.
其实在我们看来，这种情绪同样属于过度恐慌。
In fact, in our view, this sentiment is also excessive panic.
至于消除恐慌的关键，依然是怀着科学精神，从统计学的角度来寻求答案。
As for the key to dispelling panic, the answer is still sought from a statistical point of view, in a scientific spirit.
病毒传播其实也是一个随机事件，不排除有极小概率以某种特殊方式进行传播，但关键是概率到底有多低？如果在现有已经确诊的几万个病例中，仅有几例是因为特殊方式被传染的，那么更精确的表述，应当是在四个九的可靠性下，病毒只是通过近距离途径传播。
Virus transmission is also a random event that does not rule out a very small probability of transmission in a particular way, but how low is the probability? If only a few of the tens of thousands of cases that have been identified have been transmitted in a particular way, then a more accurate statement would be that under the reliability of four ninths, the virus is transmitted only at close range.
至于“气溶胶传播”，如果仅仅存在理论上的可能性，实践中却很难达到符合条件的场景，那么对于绝大多数人来说，仍然只是极小概率的威胁。
As for "aerosol propagation," if there is only a theoretical possibility, it is difficult to meet the conditions in practice, then for the vast majority of people, it is still a minimal probability threat.
还有，我们在看待各类数据的过程中，还必须把各种测量误差考虑进去。
Also, we have to take measurement errors into account in looking at various types of data.
在目前的检测中，必然存在一定数量的假阴性和假阳性的误差。
In the current detection, there must be a certain number of false-negative and false-positive errors.
假设，现有检测方式存在假阳误诊概率（即没有患病的情况下被错误诊断），人群中又有一定比例的人具有一般感冒的症状，当我们测试几十万到几百万的人群时，不免有相当数量的被确诊，但是实际真的只是普通流感患者。
It is assumed that there is a false-yang misdiagnosis probability (that is, if the disease is not misdiagnosed) and that a certain proportion of the population has the symptoms of a common cold. When we test hundreds of thousands to millions of people, there are a considerable number of confirmed cases, but it is really only common influenza patients.
而且这些误诊的人完全没有到武汉或者紧密接触武汉的历史。
And these misdiagnosed people did not go to Wuhan at all or closely contact with the history of Wuhan.
如果硬是要把这些误诊的人寻找传染源的话，那就需要侦探小说的想象力，会夸大了这个病毒的真实传染性。
If we try to find the source of infection for these misdiagnosed people, we need the imagination of detective stories to exaggerate the true infectivity of the virus.
又会引发新一轮的没有必要的恐慌。
It would trigger a new round of needless panic.
所以说，消除恐慌最有效的方式，就是学会从研究概率和统计学的角度来看待消息。
So the most effective way to combat panic is to learn to look at information from a probabilistic and statistical point of view.
公众千万别因为外界对于少数不幸事件的聚焦，就丧失从整体统计中获取信心的思考。
The public must not lose the ability to gain confidence from the overall statistics because of the focus on a few unfortunate events.
更为重要的是，决策者也需要以冷静而客观的态度，来分析目前呈现出来的各项数据，据此在制定政策时实现平衡，避免在过度恐慌的背景下出现极端做法，为追求所谓的“零风险”，而彻底牺牲其它领域，导致整个社会为此付出过于高昂的成本。
More importantly, policymakers also need to be dispassionate and objective in analysing the data that now emerge, in order to strike a balance in policymaking, avoid extreme practices in a context of excessive panic, and pursue so-called "zero risk" at the expense of others, at the expense of society as a whole.
如果经济遭受沉重打击，那么由此产生的副作用，最终也会导致人均寿命的下降，以另一种形式付出生命的代价。
If the economy is hit hard, the side effects will eventually lead to a decline in life expectancy at the expense of life in another form.
还有些情况下，过度恐慌所造成的极端决策，会直接导致其他各类风险的上升。
In other cases, extreme decision-making as a result of excessive panic can lead directly to an increase in other types of risk.
比如曾有新闻报道提及，在湖北省黄冈市黄梅县，母亲要带着女儿接受白血病的二期治疗，却因为封路而无法前往武汉，险些造成悲剧。
For example, in Huangmei County, Huanggang City, Hubei Province, news reports said that the mother with her daughter received second-stage treatment for leukaemia, but could not travel to Wuhan because of road closures, almost causing tragedy.
我们在隔离方面也是要更加精准。
We also need to be more precise about segregation.
目前对于很多返程人员，部分地区要求一律自行隔离14天。
At present, for many returning personnel, some areas require isolation for 14 days.
表面上看，这自然是为了将风险降到最低点。
On the surface, of course, this is to minimize risk.
但实际上，返程人员到底来自疫情严重地区还是其他地区？返程之前在当地是否接受过隔离？这些变量会导致传染风险出现天差地别的变化，如今一刀切地全都要求隔离14天，显然并不是最科学的做法，同时也可能稀释基层日趋紧张的防治资源。
But, in practice, are those who return from highly affected areas or elsewhere? Have they been isolated locally prior to their return journey? These variables can lead to a very different risk of transmission, and now it is clearly not the most scientific approach to require isolation for 14 days at a time, while diluting the increasingly strained resources available at the grass-roots level.
现在很多地方，交通设施和小区采取以户籍作为隔离依据的粗暴方式，使得很多人在各地被重复隔离甚至无家。
In many places, transportation facilities and small areas are now used in rough ways based on residential registration, leaving many people isolated and even homeless.
更为理性而有效的做法，应当在国家出面，组织专家，出台评估风险的相关规则以及针对不同风险等级的不同措施，避免各地制定重复和过激的限行和隔离政策。
A more rational and effective approach would involve the State, the organization of experts, the introduction of rules for the assessment of risks and different measures for different levels of risk, and the avoidance of duplicative and disproportionate restrictions and segregation policies.
政府还可以利用移动通信技术，根据个人在短期内的旅行轨迹，来估算相关人员的感染风险，进而作为各地采取限制措施的依据。
Governments can also use mobile communications technology to estimate the risk of infection for individuals based on their travel trajectories in the short term, thereby serving as a basis for local restrictions.
如果国家的隔离和限行规则能够执行到位，确保现在进入低发地区的人都是低风险的，那么在这些地区也不需要大面积带口罩，这样口罩也就够用了。
If national quarantine and restriction rules are in place to ensure that people now entering low-risk areas are at low risk, large areas of the population do not need to wear masks, which would be sufficient.
另外隔离时间也不应追求要做到零风险，对于无症状者甚至不需隔离14天，只要下降到和当地普通人群差不多就可以放行。
Isolation time should also not seek to achieve zero risk, even for asymptomatic people do not need to be isolated for 14 days, as long as it is reduced to the local general population can be released.
按照我们本文简单模拟估算的数学模型，隔离7天就能成功排查出百分之九十以上的感染者，也就是说把风险降低到了只有原来的百分之十。
According to our simple mathematical model, isolation of 7 days can successfully detect more than 90% of the infected, which means that the risk is reduced to only 10%.
如果，对于很多人群可能隔离7天就够了，那么就会大幅降低经济和社会成本。
If seven days of possible isolation were enough for many people, the economic and social costs would be substantially reduced.
（需要提醒读者的是，我们的模型只是基于钟南山的文章非常有限的几个数据，一线的专家应该可以给出更加精确的模型）未来这段时间里，疫情防治即将进入最关键的攻坚战。
(Remind the reader that our model is based on a few very limited numbers from Zhong Nan Shan's articles, and that front-line experts should be able to produce more accurate models.) The fight against the epidemic is about to enter its most critical battle in the years ahead.
值此时刻，对任何一种随机事件的描述，都应该从概率和统计的角度进行考虑，要理解随机事件不可能实现绝对的零风险，并且避免为不切实际的追求付出额外代价。
At this point in time, the description of any random event should be considered in terms of probability and statistics, in order to understand that random events cannot achieve absolute zero risk and avoid paying an additional price for unrealistic pursuits.
相信所有人都希望，整个社会最终能用最小的代价，来获取最好的疫情防治效果。
I believe that everyone hopes that the whole society will finally be able to get the best possible results with the least possible cost.
要想实现这个目标，就需要综合各类数据进行精准的统计和概率计算，帮助我们制定科学理性的控制疫情的政策。
To achieve this goal, we need to combine various types of data for accurate statistics and probabilistic calculations to help us formulate scientifically rational policies to control the epidemic.
未经授权 禁止转载。
Unauthorized reproduction is prohibited.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
隔离14天是多还是少？要用统计学来思考。
Is 14 days of isolation more or less? Think statistically.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var nickname = "界面新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
var msg_title = "隔离14天是多还是少？要用统计学来思考";。
var msg _ title = & quot; did 14 days of isolation count or less? Consider & quot; & quot; with statistics.
var msg_desc = "根据已知数据可以模拟出，任意一个病例的潜伏期超过14天的概率为0.838%，超过24天的概率为0.062%。
var msg _ desc = & quot; with known data, the probability of a incubation period greater than 14 days is 0.838% for any one case, and 0.062% for any one case.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="界面新闻";。
Var title = & quot; AT & quot; AT & quot;
