“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭。
"Seal the city" in Wuhan on the 20th centennial Pavilion.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻特约撰稿 张小莲 记者 任雾 实习生 蓝泽齐这几天，江强（化名）明显感到工作进入“快车道”了。
Zhang Xiaolian reporter Ren Zezhi, a reporter for Peng Pai News, last few days, Jiang Qiang (not his real name) obviously felt that work was entering the "fast track."
居委会陆续来了增援的人，“应收尽收”的“死命令”下来，送病人做核酸检测、收治隔离，前些天最挠头的这些事，也畅通多了。
Neighborhood committee successively came reinforcements, "should receive" the "death order" come down, send the patient to do nucleic acid test, treatment isolation, the most flexible days of these things, also much more unimpeded.
还有一些新增的疑似病人，但明显比之前少了，昨天（11日）新增了两个，一个已经做了核酸，另一个今天安排做核酸。
There are also new suspected patients, but significantly fewer than before, yesterday (11) added two, one has done nucleic acid, and the other is scheduled to do nucleic acid today.
江强是武汉“百步亭”社区某居委会的工作人员。
Jiang Qiang is a staff member of a neighborhood committee in Wuhan.
“百步亭”也许是疫情中最受关注的社区了：曾因举办“万家宴”受到争议，近日又因某个居委会公布发热病人的门栋信息，和一则居民密集排队的视频在网上流传，再次引起关注。
The Hundred Steps Pavilion is perhaps the most visible community in the epidemic: controversy over the holding of a "family dinner" and the recent release of information about fever sufferers by a neighborhood committee, along with a video of a crowd queuing up online, have raised renewed concerns.
疫情爆发以来，武汉市以居委会为单位，开始承担起组织社区居民共同抗击疫情的任务。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, Wuhan city as a unit, began to organize community residents to fight the epidemic task.
来源：央视新闻这些争议，对江强来说，有“提示过风险但未被采用”的无奈；有被放大的传言；还有理解的错位。
Source: CCTV News these controversies, for Jiang Qiang, there are "hints of risk but not adopted" helplessness; there are exaggerated rumors; and misplaced understanding.
居委会在相关门栋楼下贴了“发热门栋”四个字，但没有公布具体哪一户人，江强认为这是为了保护居民隐私权，“比较人性化”。
The neighborhood committee posted the word "fever doorstep" downstairs, but did not disclose which family it was in order to protect the right to privacy, "more humane."
但居民们并不“买账”，要求公开病例信息。
But residents do not "buy it" and require disclosure of case information.
疫情爆发后，面对繁杂的防疫工作、居民的抱怨和质疑，以及被感染的风险，江强和他的同事们“有太多想要崩溃的瞬间”。
After the outbreak, Jiang and his colleagues "had too many moments of wanting to break down" in the face of a complex epidemic, complaints and questions from residents, and the risk of infection.
有人辞职了，江强还在坚持。
Some people have resigned, Jiang Qiang is still insisting.
社区的居民都是抬头不见低头见的街坊，不是亲人，也像一家人。
The residents of the community are invisible neighbors, not relatives, but also like a family.
江强理解，因为这个病，大家都慌了，“这个时候你不管他们，不去跟他们解释，不挨两句骂，他们没有渠道（发泄），会更加恐慌。
Jiang Qiang understands, because of this disease, everybody panic, "this time you do not care about them, do not explain to them, do not get two scolding, they have no channel [vent], will be more panic.
”有一次，一个居民对他说了声“谢谢”，整个居委会都沸腾了。
Once a resident said to him, "Thank you," and the whole neighborhood boiling.
他们说不容易啊，“碰到个好人。
They said it wasn't easy. "I met a nice guy.
”江强说，好人吗？是病人。
"said Jiang Qiang.
“她和儿子双肺‘玻璃状’，除了安慰，等排队，我无能为力。
"She and her son had lung 'glassy' and there was nothing I could do but console and wait in line.
”如今，这种“无力”缓解了不少：方舱医院和隔离点建成后，陆续收治病人，核酸检测也在加快，治愈的人越来越多，也会空出新的床位来。
Today, this "weakness" has eased: after the construction of the cockpit hospital and quarantine site, patients are being treated, nucleic acid testing is being accelerated, more and more people will be cured, and new beds will be made available.
“感染人数慢慢减少，居民的心会慢慢平静，我们的工作也会越来越好做，要多一点信心吧。
"Slowly the number of people infected, the hearts of the residents will gradually calm down, our work will be more and more easy to do, a little more confidence.
“江强说。
said Jiang Qiang.
以下是他的口述百步亭社区大约住了15万-18万人，大多是本地居民，老人小孩为主。
The following is his oral 100 Pavilion community of about 150,000 to 180,000 people, mostly local residents, the majority of the elderly and children.
设有一个社区管委会和下面9个居委会，一般一个居委会管一个小区，有的管两三个小区，一个小区30多栋、50多栋的都有。
There is a community management committee and the following 9 neighborhood committees, generally a neighborhood committee in charge of a small area, some of two or three small areas, a small area of more than 30, more than 50 have.
我所在居委会的在编工作人员有21名，负责四个小区的3000多户、10000多人。
My neighborhood committee has a staff of 21 members and is responsible for more than 3,000 families and 10,000 people in four small districts.
1月初，我们听说了肺炎的消息，但起初说“可防可控”，后来又说“不排除有限人传人”（注：1月15日，武汉市卫健委在官网发布的疫情知识问答中，首次提到），万家宴举办前三天（1月15日），我们跟居委会领导反映，最好取消万家宴，但没成功。
In early January, we heard of pneumonia, but initially said "preventable and controllable," and later said, "not excluding limited person-to-person". (Note: January 15, Wuhan Health Commission released the knowledge of the epidemic situation of the first time, three days before the dinner (January 15), we and neighborhood committee leaders said that it would be better to cancel the feast, but failed.
当时我们有点担心这个“肺炎”，是不是跟甲流一样会传染，因为武汉（2019年）12月份流行甲流，很多学校停课，学生在家隔离，我们以为跟甲流差不多，没想到会死人。
At the time, we were a little worried that the pneumonia would be as contagious as swine flu, because Wuhan (2019) in December, when influenza A was popular, many schools were closed and students were isolated at home.
疫情爆发后，到处都在传那张万家宴的头版头条，拿出来讽刺我们，我们也很无奈。
After the outbreak of the epidemic, the spread of the front page of the family dinner, out to satirize us, we are also very helpless.
万家宴办了二十年，其实并非指有万人到场，而是指万户家庭提供的菜色。
The ten thousand banquet held 20 years, in fact does not mean the presence of ten thousand people, but refers to ten thousand families to provide dishes.
一般主会场坐席三四百人，参观几百人，会场外有庙会，场面也不大，人流量几百，龙灯龙船表演时可达到上千人。
Generally speaking, there were three or four hundred people sitting in the main hall, visiting hundreds of people. There was a temple fair outside the hall.
每个分会场十几张桌子，流水席，来来去去三四百人顶天了，九个分会场最多几千人流量吧。
More than a dozen tables, water tables, come and go, three or four hundred people per day, nine overflow at most a few thousand people.
因为万家宴、庙会等各类活，我们已经半个多月没有休息一天了，就指望着春节休息一下，然后就没有然后了。
We haven't had a day off for more than half a month because of all kinds of activities, such as family feasts and temple fairs.
1月23号（武汉“封城”）开始“8对8”，每天早上8点上班，晚上8点下班，直到现在没有一天休息。
Wuhan "closed" January 23 ("the city") began "8 to 8," every morning at 8 a.m., close at 8 p.m., until now no day off.
其他社区都是一个班四五个人，一个社区分2-3个班，上一天可以休1-2天。
The other communities are four or five persons in one class, with one community divided into two or three classes and one to two days off the previous day.
但（管委会要求百步亭防疫工作）必须要跟其他社区不一样。
But it has to be different from the rest of the community.
“一二三四五六七件事情”现在我们每天的工作内容有好几项。
"1234567things" There are several things we do every day.
首先是排查，每天早上8点开始，把前一天统计的名单拿出来，每一个发热的、疑似的、确诊的、住院的，全部联系一遍，看看有没有变化，上门的上门，电话的电话，重新再过一遍。
First is the screening, every morning at 8 a.m., the list of the previous day's statistics out, every fever, suspected, diagnosed, hospitalized, all contact, to see if there are any changes, door door, phone calls, a new again.
然后还要去接医院派下来的名单，这个名单就是有些人没跟我们报备，他们自己跑去医院，我们要重新摸排，如果确定是的话，就做到新增名单里。
Then there's the list of people who don't report to us. They go to the hospital themselves, we rearrange it, and if we do, we add it.
还有就是居民每天电话来报备的，全部要做成新增，单独做一个表格，到底是属于轻症，还是发烧咳嗽，还是做了CT的疑似，还是做了核酸检测的确诊，全部要过一遍。
There is also the daily telephone residents to report, all have to be added to a separate form, whether it is a mild illness, fever or cough, or CT suspected, or have done nucleic acid tests confirmed, all over.
这是最重要的工作，我们分了5个网格，每个网格有2个人专门做这个事情。
This is the most important work, we divided into 5 grids, each grid has 2 people dedicated to do this thing.
其次，给行动不便的、独居的高龄老人和残疾人送菜。
Second, to the mobility of the elderly and elderly people living alone and disabled food delivery.
我们每个网格（针对这部分特殊居民）都有一个表。
Each of our grids (for this particular population) has a table.
每回来了菜，我们就装成一袋一袋送上去。
Every time we come back, we pack them up in bags.
很多人不满意啊，说怎么不给他们送。
A lot of people don't like it. They say why not give it to them.
菜是上面发下来，大箱子上面写着支援灾区，毕竟数量有限，只有困难人群才有，一家人两斤菜再加两萝卜。
Food is handed down from above, big box above write support disaster areas, after all, a limited number of people only in need, a family of two catties of vegetables plus two radishes.
有次我给一户独居的残疾居民送菜，他说怎么只有这么点，我说还有口罩和消毒水，他说怎么不多搞一点，我说你是人家的好几倍了，人家就只有一点菜。
I once brought food to a disabled resident who lived alone. He told me there were masks and disinfectant. He told me how to do it a little more. I said you were several times better than people.
网上流传的那个排队领菜的视频发生地，是我们百步亭社区购物首选的大超市，但它属于丹水池街道管辖，不归我们管，我们去问了一下，不是免费发菜，好像是排队买肉。
The online circulation of the video queuing to pick up the scene, is our 100 Pavilion community shopping first choice supermarket, but it belongs to Dan pool street jurisdiction, not under our jurisdiction, we went to ask, not free distribution, as if queuing to buy meat.
其三，每天有急事要出行的，我们要安排车辆。
Thirdly, we should arrange vehicles if there is an emergency to travel every day.
我这个网格有3个尿毒症患者，要送他们去医院做透析，还有糖尿病高血压患者要领药的，送他们去领药等等，很多是困难群体。
I've got three uremic patients on my grid who need dialysis at the hospital, diabetes hypertension patients who need medicine, take them to get medicine, and so on, many of them are in trouble.
其四，各方的捐赠物资陆续运来，不通过红十字会，直接对口社区，让我们开车去高速路口接，开好多证明。
Fourth, donations from all parties continue to arrive, not through the Red Cross, directly to the community, let us drive to the highway junction to meet, many certificates.
现在不用去高速路口了，这些志愿者很厉害，直接送到社区来。
Now you don't have to go to the freeway. These volunteers are very good. Send them directly to the community.
2月9日，武汉百步亭社区，一位志愿者司机让一位自行来到发车点的轻症新冠肺炎患者上车后，等待同事告知他目的地。
On Feb. 9, a volunteer driver in the community of Bumbuting, Wuhan, asked a self-propelled New Crown Pneumonia patient to get on the bus and wait for his colleagues to tell him where he was going.
这位患者将被送到市内一处方舱医院接受隔离治疗。
The patient will be taken to an inner city cabin hospital for isolation.
中青报·中青网记者 李峥苨/摄其五，物业每天都在消杀，我们对接物业和防疫站，认为有必要的楼栋，我们还要防疫站的专业人员再杀一遍，那些去世的、疑似的、确诊的家庭，要去杀毒。
China Youth Daily, a reporter of Li Zheng Zheng / his 5, the property is being destroyed every day. We docked property and epidemic prevention stations and decided that it is necessary to build the buildings.
去世家庭的消杀，防疫站、社区医院、居委会三方都要到位，我对接好几次了。
The elimination of the deceased family, epidemic prevention stations, community hospitals, neighborhood committees are all in place, I docked several times.
有一次，另一个网格的居民因新冠肺炎去世，我代替那个网格的女同志过去了，完了之后我们接到投诉，市长热线的问责，说我们没有消杀。
Once, when another resident of the grid died of pneumonia, I took the place of the Grid's female comrade, and after that we received a complaint that the mayor's hotline was accountable for not killing us.
当我们拿出所有证据、来来回回搞了几个小时之后，他承认了，他说当时是他一个亲戚在家，没有沟通好，我说你亲戚在家（也不能）投诉我三次啊。
When we produced all the evidence and went back and forth for hours, he admitted that it was a relative who was at home, did not communicate well, and I said that your relatives were at home (and could not) complain me three times.
总之，经常遇到各种“稀奇古怪”的事情。
In short, often encounter a variety of "odd" things.
其六，给需要住院的确诊和疑似病例安排床位，要排队；把确诊和疑似病例送往隔离点，也要排队。
Sixthly, the placement of beds for confirmed and suspected cases requiring hospitalization, as well as the queuing of confirmed and suspected cases to quarantine points.
住院是一条线，隔离点是一条线，你排到哪个算哪个。
Hospitalization is a line, isolation point is a line, you are to which is which.
有个社区志愿者的老伴排队排了三四天，没排到床位，排到了隔离点。
A community volunteer's wife queued up for three or four days to reach the isolation point.
他一直在抱怨，费了九牛二虎之力终于把他送走了，没有一句表扬，还一肚子委屈。
He had been complaining that he had finally been sent away with all his might, without a word of praise, and without a word of grievance.
送去之后，打电话来说他没带手机，让我们去他家拿一下手机。
After he got there, he called and said he didn't have his cell phone. Let's go to his house and get it.
没消毒，没办法，去呗。
No disinfection. No way. Go.
用个袋子装着，拿回来消毒。
Put it in a bag and bring it back for disinfection.
他要我们第一时间送去，我说你现在主要是治病，我们现在人力物力都很紧张，明天有社区干部要去隔离点，再给你带过去。
He wanted us to be there first, and I said that you were mainly taking care of your illness, that we were under great strain now, and that tomorrow there would be a community cadre going to the quarantined point and bringing it back to you.
好不容易说通了。
It makes sense.
过一会儿又打电话来，说还要拿充电器。
I called back later and said I'd get the charger.
我说你家里还有一个人，能不能送到社区来？不行。
I said there was someone else in your family who could be sent to the community? No way.
这是第二趟。
This is the second trip.
第三次打电话，让我们去他姐姐家里送个口罩，顺便拿个什么东西。
On the third call, let's go to his sister's house and get a mask and something.
他姐姐住另一个网格，八十多岁了。
His sister lives on another grid and is in her 80s.
好，也是我去。
Okay, I'm going, too.
第四次，家里的水电气能不能帮我关一下？我让物业去，帮他把外面的闸全都关了。
For the fourth time, could you turn off the gas at home? I asked the property to turn off all the locks outside.
事情还没完。
This is not all.
我下班以后，听同事说，他又打电话来了，问能不能再把煤气打开，说不在乎那几个钱。
After work, I listened to my colleague say that he called again and asked if he could turn the gas on again, saying he didn't care about the money.
当时都晚上九点了。
It was nine o'clock at night.
同事说现在都下班了，能不能明天再去。
Colleagues say it's all off now, can we go tomorrow?
他就不依了，开始骂人了，单位副书记把电话抢过来给他做工作，解释了半天。
He did not comply, began swearing, the unit deputy secretary snatched over the phone to do his work, explained half a day.
我就问一下，你儿子能不能做到这个地步？你得了病我能理解，我们也不需要你理解我们，但是请不要太过分。
I'll just ask if your son can make it this far? I can understand when you get sick, and we don't need you to understand us, but please don't go too far.
他老伴是志愿者，我们跟她很熟，他家里还有一个更老的老人，尿失禁，我们每个月都给他家送一箱尿不湿。
His wife is a volunteer, we know her well, he has an older old man, urinary incontinence, we give his family a box of urine every month.
我真的没想到，这个家庭会对我们发飙。
I really didn't think this family was going to be mad at us.
我好难过。
I'm so sorry.
最后，剩下的人就是接电话挨骂。
In the end, the rest of us answer the phone and get scolded.
这两天很多人都在家关“疯”了，一点小事就闹，我们也“疯”了，给他们解释各类政策、各种事情。
These two days a lot of people are at home "crazy", a little bit of noise, we "crazy" to explain to them a variety of policies, things.
我两部手机，一个是工作的，一个是私人的，上班12个小时，12小时（电话）没停过，戴着口罩，（时间长了）受不了，换个人接。
I have two cell phones, one for work and one for personal use, 12 hours at work, 12 hours on the phone, wearing a mask, I can't take it anymore.
我今天（2月4日）把手机都摔了。
I dropped my cell phone today (Feb. 4).
回家之后吃了个饭，换了部手机，又一直忙到晚上11点多。
I went home, ate a meal, changed my cell phone, and stayed busy until 11 pm.
为什么摔手机？不是因为具体某一件事情，是一二三四五六七八各种事情，两部电话都接不过来的事情。
Why did you drop the phone? Not because of a specific thing, is a 1234 5678 a variety of things, both phone can not connect things.
被居民吵完之后肯定不舒服啊，但是再来一个电话你还得接。
I'm sure I'm not feeling very well after being quarreled by the residents, but you'll have to answer another call.
“排队，排队”一千万人的城市关起来，历史上都没发生过。
A city of 10 million people has never been locked up in history.
大家都没有经验，摸着石头过河。
No one was experienced enough to cross the river.
很多事情都要靠基层做。
Much depends on the grass-roots level.
老百姓去看病，必须社区开证明。
People have to be certified by the community to see a doctor.
所有车子不能出去，必须社区开证明，但没有文件明确，社区该开哪些证明，不该开哪些证明。
All vehicles cannot go out and must be certified by the community, but there is no clear documentation as to which certificates the community should issue and which it should not.
我碰到几个，他家里人要去上班，要给他开证明，就在这儿发飙，我说你让我怎么开，内容怎么写，什么抬头，对应哪个单位，根据哪条法律法规，一切都是空白。
I met some of his family members who were going to work, wanted to give him a certificate, had a blast here, and I said how you wanted me to open it, what to write about, what to write about, what to write about, which unit to correspond to, what laws and regulations to follow, everything was blank.
比较挠头的还是病人的问题。
It's the patient's problem that gets scratched.
病人必须到社区医院去验血，验了血，社区医院让你去看发热门诊，才能去看。
The patient must go to the community hospital for blood tests, blood tests, the community hospital let you see a fever clinic, to see.
到发热门诊怎么去？公告写的很清楚，由各区组织专门车辆。
How to go to the fever clinic? The announcement made it clear that specialized vehicles would be organized by each district.
但这个“专门车辆”找谁？经常碰见这样的情况。
But who is this "special vehicle" to look for? It often happens.
居民走三四个小时到医院，医院说人太多，看不了，找社区。
Residents walk three or four hours to the hospital, the hospital said too many people, can not see, look for the community.
他又拿着社区医院的证明去排队。
He went to the queue with a certificate from the community hospital.
排了八个小时，才能照CT。
It took eight hours to get a CT scan.
拿到CT结果，然后告诉你，等试剂盒。
Get the CT results and tell you, wait for the kit.
然后又走三四个小时回来。
Then he came back three or four hours later.
这是早期的情况。
This is an early situation.
大概1月30号晚上，我们改装了公安局的车辆来接送病人。
On about the night of January 30, we modified the bus of the Public Security Bureau to pick up the sick.
但（医疗）压力太大，人太多。
But there's too much pressure, too many people.
2月4日，我送了十个人去隔离点，做核酸测试，做完再送回来，因为隔离点早就没有床位了。
On February 4, I sent ten people to the quarantine site for a nucleic acid test and sent it back, because the isolation site was long gone.
针对新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎患者及疑似病例的心理疏导、患者家属的后勤服务，也是百步亭社区的重要工作。
In view of the new coronavirus infection pneumonia patients and suspected cases of psychological counseling, family members of the patients logistics services, is also an important work in the community.
来源：央视新闻（截止2月4日）我们居委会没送走的病例有42个左右，大部分没有确诊，也有做了核酸测试结果显示阴性的。
Source: CCTV News (Feb. 4) We did not send away about 42 cases, most of them undiagnosed, but also done nucleic acid test results negative.
已经住院的、隔离的、死亡的都不在这个名单里。
The hospitalized, quarantined, and dead are not on this list.
通过我们送去隔离的有7个，死亡3个，死亡的都是没确诊的。
There were seven deaths and three deaths sent to quarantine through us, all of which were undiagnosed.
通过我们送去住院3个，没有通过我们住院的，我了解到的有5个。
Through us sent to the hospital 3, not through our hospital, I learned about 5.
可能还有一些我们还没掌握到，隐瞒不报、在家扛的人也有。
Maybe there are other people we haven't mastered, who don't report it, who carry it at home.
病得不行了，才打电话过来说发烧多少天了。
I was so sick that I phoned to say how many days I had a fever.
我说你前两天怎么不说呢，他说他怕不是这个病，去了医院被感染了怎么办。
I said why you did not say the other day, he said he was afraid not this disease, to the hospital was infected with what to do.
在10号令（编注：2月2日）发布前两天，我们就开始送隔离点了。
Two days before the order was issued, we began to deliver the quarantine point.
第一天送了三个人，那个酒店离社区不远，第二天我要打电话问情况，上午打不通，下午电话通了，他们反映说昨晚闹了一晚上，没有医务人员，没有量体温，没有开空调，被子是一层薄薄的纱，三个人发烧了一晚上，第二天家属给他们送衣服被子。
On the first day, three people were taken to the hotel, which was not far from the community. The next day I had to call to ask about the situation. I couldn't get through the morning.
第二天送了一个，因为这个名额也是报上去排队，先报先送。
The next day sent one, because the quota is also reported to the queue, first to send.
第三天就开始分类了，轻症的不送，已确诊的重症不能送，疑似的另外送。
The third day began to classify, light cases do not send, has been confirmed that the serious illness can not be sent, suspected of additional delivery.
以前都是八仙过海各显神通啊，自己去医院，自己去做CT，自己去做核酸测试。
In the past are eight immortals across the sea, ah, go to the hospital, to do their own CT, to do a nucleic acid test.
我们这有个87岁的老人，运气好得不得了，1月29号协和医院给他做了CT，然后就做了核酸，31号确诊。
We had an 87-year-old man who was lucky enough to have a CT scan done at Concorde Hospital on January 29, and was diagnosed with nucleic acid 31.
那个申请报告我也看了，“在我处做的核酸检测为双阳性，请到指定的社区由社区安排就医。
I read the application report, too. "The nucleic acid test done at my site is double positive. Please go to the designated community and arrange for a community visit.
”我也碰到过单阳性的，双阳性更厉害一点，就在社区排队了，排了4天才排到床位。
I have also encountered a single-positive, double-positive person, who queued up in the community for four days to get to the bed.
有些没排到床位的就一直在抱怨。
Some people who don't get into bed complain all the time.
但我们也没办法，只能把他的病情状况上报，卫健委觉得可以住院才会转给区，区指挥部转给街道，然后才到我们社区，我们才会通知你去住院，用专车送你走。
But we have no choice but to report his condition to the health authorities, who feel that he can be hospitalized before he can be transferred to the district, the District Command to the street, and then to our community, where we will notify you to go to the hospital and drive you on a special bus.
这是一个程序。
This is a procedure.
社区只能上报，上报之后排队。
Communities can only report, report and queue.
现在，一个居委会每天能分到一个床位都难。
Nowadays, it is difficult for a neighborhood committee to be allocated a bed every day.
我们副书记每天到处去求人，去吵架，来争取名额。
Our deputy secretary goes around asking for people and quarreling every day to get places.
有个病人安排了四天，她自己去找关系，向街道施压，才抢到一个床位，安排住院了。
One patient had been arranged for four days, and when she went to find relations herself and pressed the street, she got a bed and arranged for her to be hospitalized.
只过了短短几分钟就收到消息，另一个在排队的病人死在家里了。
Just minutes after receiving the news, another patient in line died at home.
副书记当时就崩溃了。
The deputy secretary collapsed at the time.
凌晨两点多还在拷问自己，是不是我们把他上报得很严重，就会让他住院？是不是没有做到最好？“理解、坚持和信心”封城那天，我们接到紧急通知，一天之内要把3000多户全部走访一遍，家里有人的，发疫情告知书，没人的，就贴在门口。
At 2: 00 a.m., we were still asking ourselves if we had reported him seriously enough to send him to hospital? Had we not done our best? On the day of the closure of the city, we were told to visit more than 3,000 families in one day.
每一栋都有楼长跟我们保持联系，发现哪家有咳嗽，我们就要上门去问，做登记。
Every one of them has a builder who keeps in touch with us. If we find any coughing, we go to the door and check in.
大年初三之前，我们都是自备口罩。
Before the New Year's Day, we all had our own masks.
初三，管委会下发了一批口罩，我们也给居民分发了一些口罩，主要给发热家庭，一人2个，后面捐赠的口罩大量地来，我们可以大量地发给居民，一人5个。
On the third day of the year, the management committee issued a number of masks, and we distributed a number of masks to residents, mainly to families with fever, 2 per person, and a large number of masks donated afterwards, which we can give to residents in large quantities, five to each.
初五，防护服、护目镜也发下来了。
Five, protective clothing, goggles have also been issued.
防护服是一次性的，我们每天都要穿，一套穿几天。
Protective clothing is disposable, we wear it every day, one for a few days.
晚上回来，脱下防护服挂在家门口，用消毒水喷，在外面晾一晚上，第二天早上再穿。
Come back in the evening, take off your suit and hang it in front of your house. Sprinkle it with disinfectant. Hang it out overnight and wear it the next morning.
到了初五初六，人数越来越多，我们就没有主动出击了，虽然配了防护服和护目镜，还是很怕。
To the sixth day of the fifth, more and more people, we did not take the initiative to attack, although equipped with protective clothing and goggles, or very scared.
只能等居民给我们打电话报备。
We can only wait for the residents to call us.
还有些人不报备，去往各个医院，我们会得到各个医院的反馈情况。
Others go to hospitals without reporting, and we get feedback from hospitals.
针对发热居民，我们每天打两次电话，再往上汇总。
We made two phone calls a day to the febrile residents, and then aggregated them up.
不可能再挨家挨户去敲门了。
It's impossible to knock on the door again.
我们已经倒下两个了，发烧咳嗽的。
We've fallen down two. We've got a fever and a cough.
请假的两个，一个是亲人已经查出双肺感染，另一个她老公是志愿者，也在做贡献，家里还有两个小孩，她实在顾不过来了。
Two of the men, a relative who had already found out about a two-lung infection, and her husband, a volunteer, with two children in the family, couldn't care less.
还有两个辞职的。
There were also two resignations.
那天我记得很清楚，我在警务室那里找到她们，我说你们网格X栋X单元的某户要上门咯，要送一些菜、口罩和消毒水，我看你们没去拿，以为你们不知道，特地给你们拿过来，你们赶紧去。
I remember that day very clearly, I found them at the police office, I said that your grid X X unit home, to send some vegetables, masks and disinfectant, I do not think you did, I do not think you do not know, specifically to bring you, you hurry to go.
我话一说完，就看见她们都在擦眼泪。
As soon as I finished speaking, I saw them all wiping their tears.
我还加了一句很蠢的话，我说这个是发热病人，领导指定要去的。
I added a stupid remark, I said this was a feverish patient, the leader designated to go.
一说发热就不行了，这个说头疼，那个说胸口疼。
Said the fever will not work, this said headache, that said chest pain.
其实每天往自己身上喷消毒水，戴着口罩说话说一整天，谁不头疼？加上精神高度紧张，每天干这干那，又要去那些危险的地方，晚上还睡不好，早上8点又要来。
Who doesn't have a headache when you spray disinfectant on yourself every day, talk with a mask and say the whole day? Add to that the mental tension, go to those dangerous places every day, sleep hard at night, and come back at 8 in the morning.
你说谁受得了？没办法，我们居委会就两个男的，我说我去吧，你们别哭，这么多天都挺过来了。
You said who can bear it? No way, we two men in the neighborhood committee, I said I go, you do not cry, so many days have survived.
现在我们就剩下15个人。
Now we have 15 people left.
我一点都不怪她们（辞职），都是有家有口的，这么多天真的是不容易。
I don't blame them at all. They have families and mouths, so much naivety is not easy.
我们还有位怀孕四个月的同事一直撑着，我跟她说你要是辞职我们真的欢迎。
We still have a four-month pregnant co-worker on board, And I told her we'd really welcome your resignation.
很多居民每天都碰到他们，大家点头都认识，经常搞活动做志愿者，我们不是亲人，但也像是一家人。
Many residents meet them every day, nod all know, often do activities as volunteers, we are not relatives, but also like a family.
因为这个病，大家都慌了。
Everybody panicked because of the illness.
如果这个时候你不管他们，不去跟他们解释，不挨两句骂，他们没有渠道（发泄），会更加恐慌。
If you don't care about them at this time, don't explain to them, don't get scolded, they have no channel (vent), will be more panic.
那天有个居民说：“你给我联系了几天都不能住院不能检测，我知道要排队，不怪你，我就是要人安慰一下，我好怕……”我听到这里都要哭了，最后她说谢谢你，说了好多次。
That day a resident said: "You contacted me for a few days can not be hospitalized can not detect, I know to line up, do not blame you, I just want to comfort people, I fear..." I heard here are about to cry, she said finally thank you, said many times.
我说，今天你是第一个谢我的人。
I said you were the first person to thank me today.
全居委会知道后都沸腾了，他们说不容易啊，你碰到个好人。
The whole neighborhood committee was boiling. They said it wasn't easy. You met a nice guy.
好人吗？是病人。
A good man? A sick man.
她和儿子双肺玻璃状，除了安慰，等排队，我无能为力。
She and her son had fiberglass-like lungs, and there was nothing I could do but console and wait in line.
社区每天都要义务给感染新冠老人送去新鲜蔬菜，并关注老人的健康状况。
Every day, the community is obliged to bring fresh vegetables to the newly infected elderly and to pay attention to their health.
（图文无关）来源：央视新闻说实话，我早就有过不想干的时候。
CCTV News To be honest, I've had moments when I didn't want to do anything.
我在这里干了八年，目前留下来的也基本都是老员工，大家互相打气，他们还在坚持，我也就再坚持一下。
I've worked here for eight years, and now I'm basically the same old staff. Everybody cheer on each other, they keep on, and I'll stick to it.
我不是党员，没有那么高的觉悟，就是同事、朋友之间很长时间的感情在里面。
I am not a party member, do not have that high consciousness, is the colleague, the friend very long time affection in inside.
如果我不干了，难道让女同志去冲吗？她们已经冲了，那我再不干了，她们怎么办？她们会更辛苦。
If I quit, would the lesbians run? They've rushed, so I'm done. What do they do? They work harder.
那天在小孩家长群里遇到一个协和的护士，我还跟她说，我们都是逆行者。
I met a Concorde nurse in the children's parent group that day, and I told her that we were both insiders.
她单独私聊我说：“我考取了心理医生的牌照，你如果有任何需要的话，请联系我。
She talked to me in private and said, "I got a psychiatrist's license and if you need anything, please contact me.
”但我没时间跟她聊，我说我有需要就联系你，她说不客气。
But I didn't have time to talk to her, and I said I would contact you if I needed to, and she said you were welcome.
我想大家应该都需要（心理援助），就跟同事说了，他们居然没反应，我想象中的回答没有出现，出现的是一片沉默。
I think everyone should need it. I told my colleagues that they didn't react. My imaginary answer didn't come. There was a silence.
刚开始我们没有口罩，每天晚上回来我们还到处讨论。
At first we didn't have masks, and every night we came back and talked about them.
后面物资越来越丰富，防护越来越多，但是人越来越沉闷，太累了，不想说话。
Behind the material more and more rich, more and more protection, but more and more boring, tired, do not want to talk.
也有很多理解我们的居民。
There are also many people who understand us.
有人在群里说，你们别逼他们了，他们也很不容易，说我们是“拿着卖白菜的钱，操着卖白粉的心”。
Some people in the group said, you do not force them, they are not easy to say that we are "with the money to sell cabbage, operating white powder heart."
还有个长辈给我发了好长一段话，看了真的很感动。
There is also an elder gave me a long paragraph, read really moved.
2月4日，区里下通知，说领导已经开会了，密切接触者是下一步的工作。
On 4 February, the district announced that the leadership had met and that close contacts were the way forward.
1对6，1个病患至少要报6个密切接触者，疑似的也要1对6，这个数量太大了。
1 to 6, 1 patient to report at least 6 close contacts, suspected to be 1 to 6, this number is too large.
现在的问题是隔离点没有医生，国家在不停地增援，我相信过几天就会好起来。
The problem is that there is no doctor in the quarantine, the state is constantly reinforcements, and I am sure it will get better in a few days.
陆续把这些病例都集中起来，把这些密切接触者都隔离起来，然后火神山、雷神山、方舱医院慢慢地收治，各个医院一些人慢慢地痊愈，也会空出一些床位出来。
These cases have been grouped together, these close contacts have been isolated, and then the fire god mountain, thunder Shenshan, square cabin hospital slowly admitted, a number of people in the hospitals slowly recovered, some beds will be vacated.
全部隔离起来，感染人数就会慢慢减少。
If you isolate it all, the number of people infected will slowly decrease.
居民的心也会慢慢平静，我们的工作也会越来越好做，要多一点信心。
The hearts of the residents will gradually calm down, our work will be more and more easy to do, a little more confidence.
“进入快车道了”2月7日，我们接到通知要24小时战备，白天分成两班，一个是早上8:00到下午2:30，一个是下午2:00到晚上8:00，中间半小时交接，晚上主要是居委会书记、副书记和副主任3个领导值班。
On February 7, we were told to prepare for a 24-hour war, divided into two shifts during the day -- from 8 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 8 p.m. -- with a half-hour transition between the two, with the secretary of the neighborhood committee, the deputy secretary and the deputy director on duty at night.
这几天我们又有两个人请假。
We have two more absences these days.
但有个好消息是公务员下沉到居委会工作。
But the good news is that civil servants are sinking into neighborhood committees.
这些天陆续有增援，截至2月12日，我们居委会有十来个公务员，每天来报到，给他们安排事情做。
These days reinforcements began to arrive, and as of 12 February we had a dozen civil servants who reported daily to arrange things for them.
2月8日，区指挥部要求核酸检测全部停止。
On 8 February, the District Command demanded that all nucleic acid testing cease.
第二天又下了死命令，要求当天把所有疑似病人送去检测核酸，我们通知那十几个人24小时准备，随时打电话就要走。
The next day a death order was given, calling for all suspected patients to be sent for nucleic acid tests that day, and we informed the dozen people to be ready 24 hours, ready to go by telephone.
我们和病人从早上8点一直等到晚上12点多，后来送了4个去做核酸再送回来，又送了4个直接去住院，送完最后一个都凌晨两点多了。
We waited with the patient from 8 a.m. to more than 12 p.m., then sent four more nucleic acids back, four more directly to the hospital, and the last one was over two in the morning.
2月10日，送了10个疑似病人去隔离点，现在隔离点也可以做核酸，还要送3个确诊的病人去住院。
On 10 February, 10 suspected patients were sent to the quarantine site, which can now also be used for nucleic acids, and three confirmed patients have to be hospitalized.
其中有个人，之前送她去做核酸检测，做完了送她回来就是不下车，非要送到医院，死活不肯下来。
One of them, who had sent her to a nucleic acid test, finished sending her back is not to get out of the car, must be sent to the hospital, refused to come down.
最后没办法，把她送到医院让她去排队，然后掉头回来接剩下的人去做核酸。
There was no way to send her to the hospital to be queued, and then turn back to pick up the rest to make nucleic acids.
耽误了两个小时，其他的人在风雨中冻得瑟瑟发抖。
After a delay of two hours, the other men shivered in the wind and rain.
她确诊为阳性，我们上门做了三天工作，劝她去隔离，她不去，让她去住院，她也不去。
She was diagnosed as positive, and we worked three days at the door to persuade her to go to seclusion, she did not go to the hospital, she did not go.
10号那天，派出所民警、纪委督办的人都上门劝她，她没戴口罩，在那“声嘶力竭”地叫喊。
On the 10th, the police station, disciplinary committee supervision of the people came to her to persuade her, she did not wear a mask, in that "hoarse" shouting.
她刚开始喊的时候，我就把民警肩膀上的执法记录仪拿下来，退到两米远，拍了全景，那简直口沫横飞啊。
As soon as she began to shout, I took the law enforcement recorder off the shoulders of the police and retreated to two meters away to get a panoramic view. It was foamy.
民警距离她一米远，很克制地劝她安静，劝她戴口罩，她就是不戴。
The civilian police is one meter away from her, very restrained exhorts her to be quiet, admonishes her to wear the mask, she does not wear.
她说隔离点没有家里好，方舱医院会交叉感染，去医院也不行，她说已经好了，都不发烧了，她说什么人家去医院几天就死了，“去医院就是要死”。
She said the isolation point is not as good as the home, the cabin hospital will cross-infection, not to go to the hospital, she said has recovered, no fever, she said people to go to the hospital in a few days died, "to go to the hospital is to die.
其实按照传染病防治法，她这样是违法的。
In fact, according to the infectious diseases law, she is illegal.
我们好话说尽，说给你安排最好的酒店，也不行。
We'll tell you the truth, but we can't arrange the best hotel for you.
最后已经到什么（程度）了，给你提供火神山（的床位），最好的医院啊。
At the end of the day, what have you got to offer you the best hospital in Mount Fire?
她说跟家人商量一下，商量到最后又不去。
She said she would discuss it with her family and that she would not go.
晚上12点多，我们终于把她送到酒店去了。
After twelve o'clock in the evening, we finally sent her to the hotel.
剩下还有一些新增的疑似病人，但明显比之前少了，昨天（11日）新增了两个，一个已经做了核酸，另一个今天安排做核酸。
There are still a few new suspected patients left, but significantly fewer than before, yesterday (11) added two, one has done nucleic acid, and the other is scheduled to do nucleic acid today.
现在新增的基本上都是密切接触者，主要是家属。
Much of what has now been added is close contact, mainly family members.
我们下一步工作主要就是密切接触者的排查。
Our next step will be to conduct an inventory of close contacts.
这两天明显感觉到，好像一下子进入快车道了，情况都在好转。
It's been a couple of days and it feels like we're moving into the fast lane and things are getting better.
百步亭社区工作人员说，疫情爆发以来，社区工作工作量庞大且繁杂，居委会内的工作人员从1月23日以来都没有休息过。
Community workers at Bumpting said the work of the community had been heavy and complex since the outbreak, and that none of the neighborhood workers had rested since 23 January.
（图文无关）来源：央视新闻戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
Wee Chow, editor of this PhD, recommended reading this week, for the CCTV news stamp here into a real-time map of new cases of coronavirus infection across the country.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭。
"Seal the city" in Wuhan on the 20th centennial Pavilion.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "“封城”二十日里的武汉百步亭";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一线社区工作者口述";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by front-line community workers.
title: '除夕至初六，上海战“疫”争分夺秒全纪录',。
At New Year's Eve, at New Year's Eve, at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '女子排队买烤鸭时被感染',。
Was AT & P's service at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
