新冠肺炎治愈者：经历生死后，更热爱生活。
The New Crown Pneumonia Healer: After experiencing life and death, love life more.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻                      。
The news is roaring.
澎湃新闻。
The news is roaring.
有内涵的时政新媒体。
Connotation of the new political media.
澎湃新闻记者 朱莹 钟笑玫 明鹊 实习生 刘昱秀Play李振东与病魔斗争了16天后终于治愈出院，他希望自己的经验能给病友提供借鉴。
Zhu Ying Jing, a journalist, smiled at Miss Liu Yue, an intern at Yu Li. After 16 days of fighting, Li finally got out of the hospital.
记者：闫海龙 魏凡 编辑：曾怡文 视频来源：澎湃新闻(04:53)这个冬天，新冠肺炎疾风般席卷全国多地。
Yan Hai Wan Editor: Zeng Yi-wen Video Source: Peng Pai News (04: 53) This winter, the New Crown Pneumonia swept across much of the country.
有人感觉像得了一场感冒，有人几度呼吸衰竭、仿佛死过一回。
Some people feel as if they have a cold, others have breathed out several times, as if they had died once.
截至2月12日19时，全国现有44763人确诊感染新冠肺炎，累计死亡病例1115例，累计治愈出院病例4870例。
As at 1900 hours on February 12, 4,763 people nationwide had been diagnosed with new crown pneumonia, with a cumulative total of 1,115 deaths and 4,870 cases of discharge.
目前确诊患者中，年龄最小的是武汉出生仅30个小时的新生儿，最大的是南京97岁的女性。
Among those diagnosed so far, the youngest are Wuhan-born babies as young as 30 hours old, and the oldest is a 97-year-old woman in Nanjing.
治愈患者中，最小的9个月大，父母从武汉到北京旅游，双双感染；最大的是湖北宜昌91岁的婆婆，治疗15天后康复出院。
The youngest child, 9 months old, was infected when her parents travelled from Wuhan to Beijing. The biggest was her 91-year-old mother-in-law in Yichang, Hubei province, who recovered after 15 days of treatment.
每一个数字背后，是一个鲜活生命，与疾病抗衡、挣扎求生的故事。
Behind every number is a story of living life, struggling against disease and struggling to survive.
他们是父母、儿女，是市场商户、出租车司机、医护人员……靠着毅力与抵抗力，有人扛过病毒的侵蚀，呼吸到自由的气息；有人不幸倒下，留下绵延的悲痛与思念；更多的人还在坚持，等待疫情退去。
They are parents, children, market vendors, taxi drivers, health-care workers... by perseverance and resistance, someone has carried the virus and breathed the breath of freedom.
武汉大学中南医院重症医学科一病区抵抗力下滑1月10日，李振东开车从荆州去武汉出差参加一个会议，晚上和朋友吃饭小聚。
Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital on a business trip to Wuhan on a business trip January 10 to have dinner with friends.
37岁的他工作繁忙，经常出差，晚上十一二点后才入睡。
The 37-year-old works hard, travels a lot and doesn't go to sleep until after 11pm.
第二天回到荆州后，他感觉自己发烧了。
When he returned to Jingzhou the next day, he felt feverish.
他12日去了趟医院，体温超过了38.5摄氏度。
He went to the hospital on the 12th and his temperature exceeded 38.5 degrees Celsius.
血液报告出来后，医生给的初步判断是上呼吸道感染。
After the blood was reported, the doctor gave a preliminary verdict of upper respiratory tract infection.
当时，新冠肺炎对于他只是匆匆略过的一则新闻。
At the time, New Crown Pneumonia was just a piece of news he skipped.
由于没有四肢乏力、咳嗽、胸闷等症状，他以为是流感，怕传染给家人，就戴上口罩，在家单独隔离在一个房间。
Without limbs fatigue, cough, chest tightness and other symptoms, he thought it was flu, afraid of infecting family, put on a mask, isolated at home in a room.
去公司上班他也戴着口罩，两天后，14日晚上，他出现剧烈咳嗽、胸闷的症状，去医院急诊部拍了CT。
He also wore a mask when he went to work. Two days later, on the evening of 14, he developed severe cough and chest tightness and went to the emergency department of the hospital for a CT scan.
看到肺部出现阴影的报告，医生说有可能是肺结核，让他立刻转院到湖北省荆州市胸科医院进行隔离。
Seeing reports of shadows in his lungs, the doctor said it might be tuberculosis and asked him to be transferred immediately to Jingzhou Chest Hospital in Hubei Province for isolation.
当时已经快夜里12点了，这家医院的值班医生详细询问了他从10日起的行程和身体情况。
It was almost twelve o'clock in the evening, and the doctor on duty at the hospital asked him in detail about his schedule and condition from 10 days.
这家医院不单周围医护人员装备齐全，而且他能感受到气氛特别紧张。
The hospital was not only surrounded by well-equipped medical staff, but he could feel a particularly tense atmosphere.
等到走进病房，看到病床边的仪器和接受数不清的检查，他才意识到，这事严重了。
When he entered the ward and saw the instruments beside the bed and the innumerable checks, he realized that it was serious.
掉以轻心的不止李振东，连医护人员也没能幸免。
Not only Li Zhendong, but also the medical personnel were not spared.
1月5日，医生黄虎翔在呼吸科接诊了新年后第一位发热病人，对方50多岁，肺部有病灶。
January 5, doctor Huang Huxiang in the respiratory department after the first fever patient, about 50 years old, lung lesions.
那时他还不知道新冠病毒，以为是普通的病毒性肺炎。
At the time, he did not know about the new crown virus, which he thought was common viral pneumonia.
1月15日左右，他所在的湖北黄冈市中心医院被设为定点医院，病人一天天增多。
Around January 15, the central hospital in Huanggang, Huanggang City, Hubei Province, was set up as a designated hospital.
黄冈市疾控中心来采样。
Huanggang CDC sampling.
之后，呼吸科的医生开始戴N95口罩，穿一次性手术衣。
Then the respiratory doctors began wearing N95 masks and disposable surgical costumes.
他后来回想，那段时间病患多，可能不小心接触到感染患者，又经常加班，抵抗力也下降了。
He later recalled how ill people were, who might have carelessly come in contact with infected patients, often worked overtime, and had lost resistance.
在黄虎翔感染之前，他科室里24个医护人员中，已有两个护士一个医生被感染。
By the time HuangHuxiang became infected, two of the 24 medical workers in his department, a doctor, had been infected.
武汉大学中南医院急救中心护士郭琴是医院里第一个感染的医护人员。
Wuhan University Zhongnan Hospital emergency center nurses Guo Qin is the first hospital infected medical personnel.
去年12月底，郭琴就知道武汉发现了不明原因肺炎。
At the end of December last year, Guo knew that Wuhan had discovered pneumonia due to unknown causes.
没几天，医院也下发了通知，对发热病人有一套专门的就诊流程，要给患者发口罩、登记信息。
A few days later, the hospital also issued a circular to febrile patients have a special set of procedures, patients to be issued with masks, registration information.
1月初开始，到医院就诊的发热病人越来越多，医院在急诊病房里改造出一个隔离病房，专门收治有新冠肺炎症状的病人。
Since the beginning of January, the number of febrile patients attending hospitals has increased and the hospital has adapted an isolation ward in the emergency ward for patients with symptoms of Newly Coronary Pneumonia.
15张病床很快住满，还加了两三张床。
Fifteen beds were quickly filled and two or three beds were added.
那时也正是流感、心脑疾病高发期。
It was also the height of flu, heart and brain disease.
1月6日，医院里来了位50多岁的重症患者，郭琴参与了紧急抢救。
On January 6, a critically ill patient in his fifties arrived at the hospital. Guo took part in the emergency rescue.
之后一周，她又接触到四五位后来被确诊的患者。
A week later, she was approached by four or five patients who were later diagnosed.
那阵子，她每天工作十几个小时，只能睡四五个小时，她感觉很疲惫，“抵抗力可能不够”。
She had been working more than ten hours a day for four or five hours, and she felt tired and "defenseless perhaps."
郭琴所在的急救中心有48名护士，隔离病房有10位，采取“三班倒”模式，2人一组，每5天上一次夜班。
Mr. Guo works in a 48-nurse, 10-person isolation ward in a three-shift, two-person, 5-a-day shift.
一个人有时要照顾6位重症患者，帮忙抢救、抽血、转运、基础护理、观察病情等，免不了与病人有密切接触。
A person sometimes has to take care of 6 seriously ill patients, to help rescue, blood extraction, transit, basic care, observation of the disease, and so on, inevitably have close contact with patients.
虽然大家都穿防护服、戴医用外科口罩、圆帽，感染风险却一直都在。
Although everyone wears protective clothing, medical surgical masks and caps, the risk of infection remains constant.
1月12日，郭琴出现畏寒、发热症状，服用了抗病毒药，当晚她自己睡一间房，没再跟家人接触。
On January 12, Guo appeared chilly, febrile symptoms, took antiviral drugs, that night she slept in a room, did not have contact with family.
第二天，烧到39度的她住进了平时自己看护的病房，进行隔离观察。
The next day, burning to 39 degrees, she was admitted to her usual ward for quarantine observation.
医生们胸片室，结合影像学资料，讨论每一位患者的病情。
Doctors in the chest radiography room, combined with imaging data, discussed the condition of each patient.
人生中至暗时刻当时没有通过核酸试剂确诊，医生凭CT判断李振东得了新冠肺炎。
The darkest hour of life was not diagnosed with a nucleic acid reagent, the doctor by CT judgement Li Zhendong New Crown Pneumonia.
“医院可能是为了减轻我的压力，一直跟我说是疑似，实际上我是属于危重症了。
"The hospital may have been trying to relieve my stress by telling me it was suspected, but in fact I was critically ill.
”15日下午，他确认要被隔离的时候，妻子担心得哭了。
"On the afternoon of the 15th, when he confirmed that he was going to be quarantined, his wife cried with fear.
当时湖北荆州市仅有一例确诊病例，患者是华南海鲜城的搬运工。
At that time, there was only one confirmed case in Jingzhou, Hubei Province.
李振东进隔离病房时，第一例已经恢复得差不多了。
By the time Li Zhendong entered the isolation ward, the first case had almost recovered.
医护人员也会主动跟他讲第一例的情况，一直安慰他说“能治好，没问题，不要担心”。
Medical staff will take the initiative to tell him about the first case, has been reassuring him that "can be cured, no problem, do not worry."
这让他提振了信心。
This gave him a boost of confidence.
他住院的第二天，从早上8点到晚上12点，一刻不停地在打针、吃药、做检查。
On the second day of his stay in hospital, from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., he was constantly receiving injections, medication and examinations.
除了拍胸片，做CT、彩超之外，他早中晚各抽一管血，抽到两个手臂上找不到一块好地方。
In addition to chest film, CT, color ultrasonography, he morning and evening draw a tube of blood, two arms can not find a good place.
医生采样化验，还需要他咳痰，但是有些新冠肺炎的病人没有痰，只能干咳。
The doctor sampled and tested him, and he coughed up phlegm, but some patients with pneumonia had no phlegm and had to cough dry.
“咳得人撕心裂肺，有时咳出来血，看得我心里直发麻。
The coughing makes people tear their lungs and sometimes cough up blood, which makes my heart twitch.
”李振东回忆。
"recalls Li Zhendong.
为了补充体力，李振东每次抽完血就逼自己喝下半瓶牛奶。
To replenish his strength, Li Zhendong forced himself to drink half a bottle of milk every time he smoked blood.
有时候他边咳血边喝，把咳的血一起咽下去。
Sometimes he coughed up blood and drank it and swallowed it together.
新冠病毒肺炎没有特效药物，住院后只能按照《湖北省治疗指南》，每天打抗生素、抗病毒、丙种球蛋白的吊瓶和医生开的中药，黄虎翔说。
After hospitalization, only antibiotics, anti-viral, gamma globulin bottles and traditional Chinese medicine prescribed by doctors can be administered only in accordance with the Hubei Province Therapeutic Guide, Huang said.
16日晚上，他一直咳嗽，吃了平喘、控制病情的药物，做了雾化，打了针，呼吸顺畅了些。
On the evening of the 16th, he coughed, took antiasthmatic, controlled medication, had atomized, injected and breathed more smoothly.
护士让他服下了安定片，调了心电监测仪的音量，关上灯让他休息片刻。
The nurse made him take the tranquilizer, turned on the ECG monitor, turned off the light and gave him a rest.
这天半夜，他自称经历了人生中非常黑暗和恐怖的时刻，因为他的先天性哮喘同时发作了。
In the middle of the night, he claimed to have experienced a very dark and horrible moment in his life, because his congenital asthma had happened at the same time.
“人是迷糊的，高烧已经不知道多少度了，咳嗽得厉害，哮喘又让我无法呼吸。
"People are confused. I don't know how much fever there is. I cough so much that I can't breathe from asthma.
我感觉自己开始说胡话，意识也慢慢开始在丢失。
I felt like I was starting to talk nonsense and my consciousness was slowly beginning to wane.
”护士听到他的呻吟声进来，但他已经没力气说话。
The nurse heard his groans come in, but he could not speak.
护士给他测了体温，38.6度。
The nurse took his temperature, 38.6 degrees.
他恍惚中听到护士说，先喝温水观察体温，他不想喝，拒绝了。
In a trance, he heard the nurse say, first drink warm water to see the temperature, he did not want to drink, refused.
再次测温已攀升至39.1度，护士说要喂药，希望能退烧，但他不喜欢出汗的感觉，又拒绝了。
The temperature again climbed to 39.1 degrees and the nurse said he wanted to take the medicine to relieve the fever, but he did not like the feeling of sweating and refused.
那几天，李振东仍然处于病发高峰期，天天高烧咳嗽，只能靠着毅力抗。
Those days, Li Zhendong is still at the peak of the disease, daily high fever cough, can only rely on perseverance.
他说，能感觉自己的身体器官都开始衰竭了，连把痰吐出来的力气都没有，“我不是个脆弱的人，但那几天我眼泪不知不觉就流下来了。
'I wasn't a vulnerable person, 'he said.' I felt my body was beginning to fail, and I didn't even have the strength to spit out.
崩溃的时候，我对医院也有一点排斥，为什么每天输液、吃药，情况还是没有好转。
When the collapse, I also have a bit of rejection of the hospital, why the daily infusion, take medicine, the situation is not improving.
”令李振东感动的是，尽管他咳嗽不止，对治疗排斥，医护人员还是冒着感染的风险，不厌其烦地为他补给热水，端屎端尿。
He was struck by the fact that despite his coughing and rejection, health-care workers risked getting infected, filling him with hot water and peeing.
“我每天要喝大概一热水瓶的开水，保温杯里的水喝完了，我叫一声，护士就会帮我去接满。
I must drink about a thermos of boiling water every day. When the water in the thermos is empty, I call, and the nurse will help me to fill it.
”记得住院第一晚，郭琴彻夜失眠，耳边回响着治疗推车走动的声音、监护仪器的响声、护士急匆匆的脚步声。
I remember my first night in hospital, Guo suffered sleeplessness all night, and I heard the sound of a wheelbarrow moving around, the sound of a monitoring device and the rushing feet of a nurse.
平时搭档的徒弟当晚值夜班，说“你睡不着，我晚上来看看你”，几次进来看她。
Usually the partner's apprentice night shift, said "you can not sleep, I come to see you at night", several times came in to see her.
那一晚她打了五六瓶抗病毒、抗菌的点滴。
She hit five or six antiviral, antibacterial drops that night.
这让郭琴想起了以前值夜班的日子，一晚上会到每个病人的床边观察他们呼吸顺不顺畅、睡得怎么样。
This reminded Guo of the night shift, when he would visit each patient's bedside overnight to see how well they breathed and slept.
有的婆婆要喝水、上厕所，也要帮忙脱裤子、搀扶，甚至抱着。
Some mother-in-law to drink water, go to the toilet, but also to help take off pants, help, even hold.
中南医院医护人员在护理患者。
Medical staff at the South-Central Hospital are nursing patients.
“身体和病毒赛跑”、“精神胜利”黄虎翔在医院住了15天，最严重的几天发烧到37.5度，全身痛，没有力气，不想动，但意识是清醒的。
Huang spent 15 days in the hospital with a fever of 37.5 degrees in the worst days. He suffered from general pain, lacked energy and did not want to move, but he was conscious.
他住院的第三四天，以前看的一个哮喘病人听说了他生病的消息，就给他的朋友圈留言祈祷，这让他得到了慰藉。
Three or four days into his hospital stay, he was comforted when an asthma patient he'd seen heard of his illness left a message with his friends.
有人辗转咨询他新冠肺炎的治疗和康复状况，他但凡状态好些就会及时回复，“他们不了解这个病，出现一些症状，就如惊弓之鸟，害怕感染上了会死。
When someone turns to him for treatment and rehabilitation for his new crown pneumonia, he responds as soon as he feels better. "They don't know about the disease, they have symptoms, like a bird startled by fear of death if infected.
所以还是需要普及知识和心理疏导。
So we still need to popularize knowledge and psychological counseling.
”56岁的刘娟（化名）和丈夫在江岸区西马路市场有三个摊位卖蔬菜，那里离华南海鲜市场四五公里远。
Liu Juan (not her real name), 56, and her husband sold vegetables at three stalls in the West Road Market, 45 kilometers from the south China seafood market.
一年中就过年休息一周。
Take a week off in one year.
对她来说，被确诊为新冠肺炎后，收治在武汉市第五医院和金银潭医院的前三天是最难熬的，“这个病真是狠哦。
For her, the first three days of treatment at Wuhan's Fifth Hospital and Gold and Silver Pool Hospital were the worst after being diagnosed with New Crown Pneumonia.
浑身上下没有劲，又痛，呼吸困难，那真是难受啊。
It's hard to breathe without energy, pain, or breathing.
”刚知道自己得新冠肺炎的时候，她还不知道怕。
"When she first learned she had pneumonia, she did not know she was afraid.
后来她看到手机上的新闻，才知道疫情严峻，晚上怕得睡不着，病房里经常传来病人呼哧呼哧的喘气声、咳嗽声，甚至哭泣声，“把我吓死了”。
Later, when she saw the news on her cell phone, she learned that the epidemic was severe and that she could not sleep at night. The patient's wheezing, coughing, and even sobbing in the ward "scared me to death."
住院前几天人昏昏迷迷的，身上疼得没胃口，她感觉吃什么都是苦的。
A few days before the hospital, people drowsy, pain on the body no appetite, she felt that everything is bitter to eat.
1月23日，管床医生给她丈夫打电话，说这个病只能提高人的免疫力，让身体和病毒赛跑，“你老婆不吃不喝怎么办，你跟她说一声，要吃，这个病就是要有营养，你没有抵抗力怎么能战胜病魔呢？”丈夫就每天中午骑着电动车，给她送稀饭、青菜、汤、牛奶、草莓，让保安递进来。
The doctor called her husband on January 23 and said the illness would only boost immunity and race the body against the virus. "What if your wife doesn't eat or drink? Tell her to eat.
她觉得苦吃不下，丈夫就在稀饭里加糖。
She felt so bitter that her husband added sugar to his porridge.
等她慢慢能用手机后，丈夫、孩子、亲戚们每天打电话鼓励她，“你一定会好的”，“你要活着，就要加油啊，要拼命地吃”。
As soon as she is able to use the phone, her husband, children and relatives call every day to encourage her, "You will be fine," "If you want to live, cheer up, eat like hell."
她就逼着自己吃。
She forced herself to eat.
27日开始，身上的疼痛好些了，送来的饭基本可以吃完。
The 27 th, the body of the pain is better, sent to the basic food can be eaten.
邻床一个82岁的婆婆无法自理，刘娟能下床后，经常帮婆婆开盖子、倒水、照顾她。
Next to the bed an 82-year-old mother-in-law can not take care of themselves, Liu Juan can get out of bed, often help her mother-in-law open the lid, pour water, take care of her.
婆婆很感动，说“没有你，我饿都饿不行了”，想认她做干女儿，后来婆婆先她一天出院。
Her mother-in-law was moved and said, "I am hungry without you," and wanted to recognize her as my stepdaughter.
住院的三天里，同事们每天发消息问郭琴状况怎么样，安慰她“不要担心，会好的”。
During her three days in the hospital, her co-workers sent a daily message asking how Guo was doing and comforting her, "Don't worry, it'll be all right."
有的同事一停下来，就进来看她，逗逗她。
When some of her colleagues stopped, they came in to see her and tease her.
有的给她带早餐、送书、送花，花没办法拿进病房，就拍照片发给她看，鼓励她加油。
Some brought her breakfast, delivery of books, flowers, flowers can not be brought into the ward, take pictures sent to her to encourage her to refuel.
郭琴说，“当时感觉特别暖心，还偷偷哭了。
Guo said, "I was so warm that I secretly cried.
”而李振东则会用手机听点音频节目，听听老歌。
Li Zhendong, on the other hand, listens to audio programs and old songs on his mobile phone.
最崩溃时听了阿杜的《坚持到底》，这给了他些许力量。
Listening to Adu's "stick it out" at the time of the crash gave him some strength.
“咳得很凶的时候一定要用意志力控制住，否则容易窒息昏迷。
'When coughing so violently, you must use willpower to control it, or you will easily suffocate and faint.
我一般是压住咳嗽后慢慢放松身体，控制呼吸。
I generally suppress a cough and then slowly relax and control my breathing.
”病毒是欺软怕硬的。
Viruses are timid.
1月23日开始，李振东连日的高烧退了下去，24日他开始进入“恢复阶段”，咳嗽好了很多，精神也在慢慢恢复。
On January 23rd, Li Zhendong's fever subsided after days of high fever. On the 24th, he began to enter the "recovery phase."
他还托朋友买了些物资捐给一线的医务工作者。
He also asked his friends to buy some supplies for the front-line medical workers.
直到恢复一些了，他才联系家人，却只字不提病危的经历。
It was not until he recovered that he contacted his family, but he said nothing about his critical illness.
他怕自己喘气不顺或者状况突变，只录些自己的视频发给家人，不敢与他们视频即时通话。
Afraid of panting or sudden changes in his condition, he only recorded videos of himself to his family and did not dare to talk to them instantaneously.
他母亲在这段时间还做饭送来医院，放在一个地方，医护人员帮他拿去。
During this time, his mother also cooked food and brought it to the hospital, where the paramedics took it for him.
他吃不下饭，就拿汤泡饭，多少吞下去一点。
Unable to eat, he took soup and rice and swallowed a little more or less.
他坐在病床上，喘着气断断续续录了些视频讲述自己的康复过程，他希望能够通过自己现身说法宽慰一些正在患病或者身处恐惧中的人。
He sat in his hospital bed, panting off and on for videos of his recovery, hoping to soothe those who were ill or in fear by showing up.
医护人员采用在人体外安放人工膜肺来替代肺的工作，让患者自身肺得到充分治疗和休息。
Health care workers use artificial membranes outside the body to replace the lung, so that the patient's own lung get adequate treatment and rest.
出院恢复期停药后留院观察了几天，李振东在两次核酸检测呈阴性后的1月31日出院了。
After the discharge convalescent period stopped drug stay in the hospital for a few days, Li Zhendong in two negative nucleic acid tests after January 31 discharged.
医生告诉他，短期内会有抗体，但免疫系统被破坏后身体比较虚弱，也会有可能二次感染，让他在家里隔离一段时间，其间需要清淡饮食、少食多餐。
Doctors told him there would be antibodies in the short term, but the weakened immune system, which was destroyed, could lead to secondary infections, leaving him isolated at home for a period of time, requiring a light diet and less food.
出院第二天，他有种“麻药醒了”的感觉，内部器官一直在痛。
The day after he was discharged from hospital, he had the sensation of "anaesthetic awakening" and internal organs were in constant pain.
这天晚上，他一度发烧到38.2度。
He had a fever of 38.2 degrees that evening.
妻子打电话给医生，主治医生说出院后停药，身体有段适应期。
The wife called the doctor, the attending doctor said that after discharge from hospital, the body has a period of adaptation.
当时已经晚上快九点，医院药房已经关门了，主治医生还跑了一趟帮他拿药。
It was nearly nine o'clock in the evening, the hospital pharmacy was closed, and the attending doctor went to fetch his medicine.
吃完退烧药、止痛药后，第三天早上，他才退烧了，人也恢复过来。
After taking antipyretics and painkillers, he had a fever and recovered from it the next morning.
2月3日下午，也就是住院17天后，刘娟也出院了。
Liu Juan was also discharged from hospital in the afternoon of February 3, 17 days after being hospitalized.
一个护士说“阿姨，你今天出院，恭喜你”，她很感激地说，“是你们给了我第二次生命，我很感谢你们，不是你们，我哪有今天呢？”医生没给她开药，只嘱咐她回家后要休养，在家隔离14天。
One of the nurses said, "Auntie, you were discharged today. Congratulations," she said gratefully. "It was you who gave me a second life. I thank you, not you.
上楼的时候，感觉有点吃力，喘气，不过比在医院的时候要好一些，饭量也大了。
When we went upstairs, I felt a little tired and panting, but better than in the hospital, and ate more.
她在家也戴着口罩，与丈夫保持距离，碗筷分开。
She also wears a mask at home and keeps her husband at arm's length.
2月7日，国家卫健委医政医管局监察专员郭燕红表示，从1月30日以后治愈患者增幅在不断加大，根据近日卫健委组织专家对500多个出院患者的病例和诊疗情况分析结果来看，其中既有轻症，也有重症，500多例治愈患者的平均住院时间是10天左右。
On February 7, Guo Yanhong, an inspector in the National Health and Wellness Commission, said that the number of patients cured had been increasing since January 30. According to a recent analysis of the cases and treatment of more than 500 patients discharged from the hospital, the average length of stay for more than 500 cured patients was about 10 days.
对于四千多位治愈者来说，一个萦绕心头的问题是：会否二次感染或留下后遗症？中日友好医院专家詹庆元给出的答案是：从一般的病毒感染规律来看，感染后都会产生抗体，有的抗体可能持续时间不长，患者治愈后有再感染的风险，应加强防护，防治感冒，在家适当活动。
For more than 4,000 healers, a haunting question is: Will secondary infections or sequelae remain? Zhan Qingyuan, an expert at the Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital, has given the answer: According to common viral infection patterns, antibodies are produced after infection, some may not last long and patients are at risk of reinfection after cure.
从临床经验来看，轻症患者没有后遗症；重症患者一段时间内可能有肺纤维化等遗留情况，大部分最后可以修复；极少数急重患者可能在较长的时间内留一点肺纤维化，需加强后期随访。
Clinical experience has shown that patients with mild cases do not have sequelae; severe patients may have residual conditions, such as pulmonary fibrosis, for some time, most of which can eventually be repaired; and very few acute patients may have a little pulmonary fibrosis for a longer period of time, requiring intensive follow-up.
郭琴出院后隔离14天就重回了疫情一线。
Guoqin was quarantined for 14 days before returning to the epidemic.
最初两天她帮忙做些医嘱、治疗的工作，但科室人员不够，她在第三天就恢复跟往常一样护理危重病人。
For the first two days she helped with medical advice and treatment, but there was a shortage of staff, and on the third day she returned to nursing the critically ill as usual.
她住在医院附近的房子里，丈夫隔两天去看她一次。
She lived in a house near the hospital and her husband visited her every two days.
重回岗位有风险，但郭琴更“希望以一个治愈患者的身份告诉大家：不要恐慌，要相信医护人员。
Getting back to work is risky, but Guo "wants to be a healer and tell everyone: Don't panic. Trust the paramedics."
”感染新冠肺炎痊愈后返岗的护士郭琴。
"Nurse Guo Qin returned to work after recovering from pneumonia in the New Crown.
受访者供图隔离时黄虎翔经常看疫情消息。
Huang Huxiang often saw the epidemic news when the interviewee was quarantined.
1月22日左右，他熟悉的医院医护人员都上了一线，当时还有山东、湖南的医疗队，一共有一千多人，有些人一个多月没回过一次家。
Around January 22, hospital staff familiar with him were on the frontline, along with medical teams from Shandong and Hunan, with more than 1,000 people, some of whom had not been home for more than a month.
他也想帮忙，尽一份自己的力。
He wanted to help, too, and do his part.
同事把片子发给他，让他帮忙看病历，做远程会诊，“有一次看到了一个怀孕25周的孕妇患者，这种病人用药需要非常小心，好在后来听说恢复得不错。
His co-workers sent him the tapes to read his medical records and had a teleconference. "Once I saw a 25-week-old pregnant woman who needed very careful medication, but was later told she was recovering well.
”这段时间，他7岁多的孩子好像突然间长大了，明白当医生的爸爸妈妈不能陪她过年是为什么。
All of a sudden, his seven-year-old son seemed to have grown up and understood why the doctor's parents couldn't be with her during the New Year.
2月1日出院那天，阳光明媚。
The sun was shining brightly on the day of his discharge on February 1.
黄虎翔洗了澡，换了衣服，戴上口罩，之后联系社区的出租车，把他送到岳母的空房里，一个人隔离。
Huang took a bath, changed his clothes, put on a mask, then contacted the community taxi and took him to his mother-in-law's empty room, alone.
之前一年只休七天，他说还从未休过如此漫长的假期。
He had only had seven days off a year and said he had never taken such a long vacation.
他给治愈者在家康复的建议是，“尽量不出门，保持室内空气流通，出去一定要戴口罩，要多洗手，很关键。
"Try not to go out, keep indoor air circulating, go out wearing a mask and wash your hands," he advises.
在家里要运动，注意休息，不要熬夜，增加免疫力。
At home to exercise, pay attention to rest, do not stay up late, increase immunity.
”2月12日，结束隔离的他回归医院，与同事在抗疫一线并肩作战。
On February 12, he returned to the hospital from isolation to fight alongside his colleagues against the disease.
跟黄虎翔同天出院的李振东现在每天晚上差不多八点半睡，早上六点左右醒。
Li Zhendong, who was discharged from hospital the same day with Huang, now goes to bed at about 8: 30 every night.
醒来后，他会在房间做做舒展动作。
When he wakes up, he will stretch in his room.
长期不动，腿部、手臂感觉都有点肌肉萎缩了，有时候会抽筋。
Long-term immobility, legs, arms feel a bit of muscle atrophy, sometimes cramps.
下午基本上是午休、听音乐、看书、看电视。
Afternoon is basically a nap, listening to music, reading, watching TV.
这段时间他每天都要跟孩子视频，孩子会问爸爸怎么还不回来。
He would play video with the kids every day, and the kids would ask him why he hadn't come back.
他就说爸爸生病了，还在恢复，好了就回来。
He said Dad was sick and recovering, and would come back when he was well.
有了此番经历，他陡然觉得这个世界很美好，自己和身边的人也很幸运，因为身边接触的人目前没有一例感染。
With this experience, he suddenly felt that the world was beautiful and that he and those around him were fortunate because none of the people he came into contact with were infected.
过去，他常常由于工作疏于陪伴家人，这次他与新冠肺炎“正面肉搏”，多少让家人担惊受怕，他说病愈之后更珍惜与他们相处的时刻。
In the past, he often neglected to accompany his family at work. This time, his "head-on fight" with Newcastle pneumonia has more or less alarmed his family, and he says he values his time with them even more as he recovers.
戳这里进入“全国新型冠状病毒感染病例实时地图”↓↓↓本期编辑周玉华推荐阅读。
Poke here into a "National Real-Time Map of Cases of Coronavirus Infection," Dou Chou, editor of this issue, recommended reading.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
新冠肺炎治愈者：经历生死后，更热爱生活。
The New Crown Pneumonia Healer: After experiencing life and death, love life more.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "澎湃新闻";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "新冠肺炎治愈者：经历生死后，更热爱生活";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '除夕至初六，上海战“疫”争分夺秒全纪录',。
At New Year's Eve, at New Year's Eve, at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '一个“重症肺炎”患者的最后12天',。
& quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
title: '女子排队买烤鸭时被感染',。
Was AT & P's service at & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & qu; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot
subject_name: '澎湃新闻',。
subject _ name: & apos; & rsquo; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var title ="澎湃新闻";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & rsquo; & quot; & quot; & quot;
