这是我们最想看到的热搜，没有之一。
This is the hottest thing we want to see. None of them.
三联.CREATIVE。
Triple. CREATIVE.
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
_今天是钟南山院士向公众宣布新冠肺炎情况后的第17天，也是武汉封城的第14天，此刻的疫情地图已经发生巨大改变，而在如此疫情之下，我们必然会忍不住刷手机看新闻，关注奋战在一线的医护人员和身处疫情区的同胞，期盼所有人的生活能尽早回归日常轨道。
Today, 17 days after the announcement of the SARS outbreak by academicians and 14 days after the closure of Wuhan, the map of the epidemic has changed dramatically. In such an epidemic situation, we cannot help but brush our mobile phones to see the news, pay attention to the health care workers on the ground and our compatriots in the epidemic area, and hope that everyone's life will return to normal as soon as possible.
正因为我们的关心，这些关于疫情发展、有向好趋势的词条总能在第一时间冲上热搜榜。
As a result of our concern, these on the development of the epidemic, there is a good trend of the word always in the first rush on the hot list.
以这张百度疫情实时全民热搜榜单为例，可以说上榜的每一条数据背后，都是无数双注视的眼睛，每一条搜索内容，也都牵动着无数颗跳动的心。
Take this list of baidu epidemic real-time national heat search list as an example, you can say that every data on the list, are countless eyes, every search content, also touch countless beating heart.
2月5日15时热搜榜__从未如此渴望春风拂面By@敦煌研究院_当我们还在哀嚎“2019太难了”时，大概谁都没料想到2020年第一个月会如此狠绝，但时间无法重启，只能硬扛下去。
Feb. 5 - Feb. 5 At 1500 hours Hot search list _ has never been more eager to see spring breeze blowing on my face By Denghuang Academy When we were still wailing "2019 is too difficult," no one would have expected that the first month of 2020 would be so harsh, but time could not restart and we had to bear it.
疫情当前，人们最关注的话题莫过于“疫情最新进展”，就像百度疫情热搜榜首位始终是“新型肺炎实时动态”，而且有关疫情的任何消息都会迅速冲上榜单。
At the moment, no one is more concerned about the epidemic than the "latest update," just as Baidu has always been at the top of the list for "real-time pneumonia," and any news of the epidemic will quickly hit the list.
__我问家人和朋友，关于疫情你们最关心什么。
I asked my family and friends what you were most concerned about about the outbreak.
他们的回答如出一辙，不再因为地域、年龄、身份的不同而有所差别：疫情什么时候能好转、能控制住，什么时候能过去。
Their answers will be the same, regardless of region, age, or status: when the epidemic will improve, when it will be contained, and when it will pass.
@静静今天自闭了吗：#在家办公怎么感觉更累了# 在家学习也好累，即使再闲也不想写作业，好想疫情快点控制住啊。
# How do you feel more tired working from home # Study at home or be tired, even if you don't want to write your homework, so you want to control the epidemic quickly.
@花贰椰：我知道疫情总会控制住的，想把时间快进到控制住的时间点。
Coconut @ Coconut: I know it's always under control, and I want to get it fast enough to get it under control.
__前两天是立春，#没有一个春天不会到来# 占据热搜前排。
The first two days of _ are spring, # No spring will not come # occupy the front row of hot search.
在 @每日经济新闻 发起的投票「疫情结束后，你想做的第一件事是？」中，16.1万用户中有7.6万人选“呼吸新鲜空气”，4.2万人选“各种吃喝玩乐”，3.9万人选“去见想见的人”。
"The first thing you want to do after the epidemic is over?" in the @ Daily Economic News poll, 76,000 of the 161,000 users "breathe fresh air," 42,000 "eat and drink of all kinds," and 39,000 "meet the people you want to meet."
__这结果令人感慨又心酸。
The result of _ _ is both heartrending and heartbreaking.
想必经此一役，越来越多人都深刻体会到了，原来随时随地“呼吸新鲜空气”“吃喝玩乐”“见想见的人”，并非轻而易举唾手可得，而是一件值得珍惜和感恩的幸事。
I am sure that as a result of this battle, more and more people have come to realize that the fresh air, fresh air, eating, drinking and seeing people are not easy to come by, but a blessing to be treasured and thankful for.
只是不知道这一次，我们什么时候才能再次拥有这些幸运。
I just don't know when we'll be lucky again.
@帅气boys的六零：疫情得到控制后，我想第一时间见到你。
After the epidemic is under control, I want to see you for the first time.
@寻找一个视我如命：疫情赶紧控制住吧，哪里都不能去的感觉真的好难受。
@ Look for someone who looks at me as if I am dead: control the epidemic quickly. The feeling that you can't go anywhere is really hard.
面对疫情，其实每个人都有自己的战场和“本职工作”。
In the face of the epidemic, in fact, everyone has their own battlefield and "professional work."
医护人员治病救人，警察等基层工作人员维护秩序，快递外卖小哥运送物资……而对于不在一线的人来说，则是做好防护、静心等待。
Medical personnel to save people, police and other grass-roots staff to maintain order, express delivery brother delivery materials... and for those not in the front line, is to do a good job of protection, waiting.
加缪在《鼠疫》中写道，“这一切与英雄主义无关，而是诚挚的问题。
Camus wrote in Plague that "all this has nothing to do with heroism; it is a question of sincerity.
这种理念也许会惹人发笑，但是同鼠疫做斗争，唯一的方式就是诚挚……我不知道诚挚通常指什么，但是就我的情况而言，我知道诚挚就是做好本职工作”。
The idea may be amusing, but the only way to fight the plague is to be sincere... I don't know what sincerity usually means, but in my case, I know sincerity is doing a good job. "
要有耐心，要沉住气，因为这世上很多事情做完之后，都不是在当下就能看到结果，但在未来的某个时刻，那个影响和转折就会慢慢显现到来。
Be patient and calm down, because many things in the world are not visible in the present moment, but at some point in the future, that influence and turn will slowly appear.
并且在这种时候，信心和行动同样重要，我们也必须怀抱希望，笃信在星月皆无的至暗寒冬后，春天必会如约而至。
And in times like these, confidence is as important as action, and we must hope that spring will come as promised after the dark winters when there are no stars or moons.
__我们必须记得，他们是生命，而不是数字By@世界卫生组织___在一段时间后，人们看着不断攀升的确诊数字，可能会不自觉感到麻木。
We must remember that they are life, not the number By @ WHO _ _ After some time, people may feel numb looking at the rising number of confirmed cases.
但事实上，那些“倒霉版的我们”依然陷于水深火热，在屏幕那头正一刻不停地与疫情抗争着。
But the reality is that the "hapless version of us" is still in deep trouble, battling the epidemic at the end of the screen.
如果说“要不惜一切代价”赢得抗疫战的最终胜利，那“一切代价”里包裹的就是一个个有血有肉的生命。
If "whatever it takes" to win the final victory in the war against the disease, then "all costs" are wrapped up in flesh and blood.
而暂时幸运的我们能做的，就是不要袖手旁观，不要往伤口上撒盐，不要让事情变得更糟。
And for the time being, what we can do is not stand by and watch, don't put salt in the wound, don't make things worse.
____@尉迟燕窝：一定要牢记个体。
- _ _ @ wenmiye: individuals must be kept in mind.
别人也是活生生的人，别人的家人也会流泪，会恐惧，会害怕生离死别……女儿追着殡仪馆的车喊着妈妈，在网上打出“去世了”三个字的人，是失去父母的人……人类的悲欢有时是相通的，所以北野武在日本地震后讲的这句话最近被大量转发，“灾难并不是死了两万人这样一件事，而是死了一个人这件事，发生了两万次”。
Other people are living people, other people's families will cry, fear, will be afraid to die... daughter chasing the undertaker's car called mother, the word "died" on the Internet, is a lost parents.
这种对苦难的共情，也正是我们被日本寄来物资上写着的“山川异域，日月同天”“岂曰无衣，与子同袍”深深打动的原因。
This kind of empathy for suffering is the reason why we were deeply moved by the words "strange land of mountains and rivers, same day of the sun and moon" written on the materials sent by Japan.
另一边，还有一群不在漩涡中心却也深陷困境的人们。
On the other side are people who are not at the center of The Vortex but are in deep trouble.
往年此时已是春运后期，大批人陆续离乡准备复工，而今年这一切都在延迟，何时恢复也未可知。
At this time of the year, many people are leaving their homes to return to work, and this year it is uncertain when they will resume.
不工作的日子并没有想象中那样美好，甚至对不少人来说，没有收入可能比疫情本身更加可怕。
The days without work are not as good as they might think, and even for many people, the lack of income can be worse than the epidemic itself.
那些闭门歇业的小店和工厂关联着的，都是一个个需要养孩子、还房贷、支撑家庭、维持生活的普通人。
The closed-door shops and factories are all connected with ordinary people who need to raise children, pay their mortgages, support their families and make ends meet.
__@小白兔_大老虎呀：楼不会塌，只是偶尔晃动掉下些碎瓦，砸死了出来搬运吃食的蚂蚁。
_ _ @ White Rabbit _ Big Tiger: the building will not collapse, only occasionally shaking off some debris, killed the ants out to carry food.
“我家养的一万多只鸡，屠宰场不开工，饲料厂也不开工，卖没法卖，养没法养……”“家里堂哥开小餐馆，春节假期备的蔬菜用不掉，容易坏的都分给亲戚朋友了。
"More than 10,000 chickens in my family don't start slaughterhouses, they don't work, they can't sell, they can't feed..." "My cousin runs a small restaurant, and vegetables for the Spring Festival holidays don't come out, and the bad ones are given out to relatives and friends
还有一个嫂子开花店，往年春节卖的超好，今天花叶子都黄了……”“家附近卖水果的老板，给大家分橙子，说过年了也没有人买，放放都放坏了，大家拿走吃吧……”正所谓“没有人是一座孤岛，每个人都是大陆的一角”，我们每个人都不免受到疫情的冲击和波及。
There is also a sister-in-law flower shop, the Spring Festival sales in the past year, the flowers are yellow... "" Home fruit owners, to everyone to share oranges, said that the New Year has not been bought, let go, let everyone eat... "
但好在寒冬之下，依然有力量在拯救局面——北京医学会跟百度合作推出在线医生咨询平台，分流线下就诊需求，提高医疗资源利用率；超过二十家房企推出减免租金举措，以减轻商户压力；新零售电商大胆尝试“租借”部分暂停营业餐厅的员工，让闲置劳动力得到有效利用；不少企业主自掏腰包，坚持给员工发工资；陆续有房东主动免租，与租客共度难关……救他就是自救，助人就是帮己，“共克时艰”这四个字变得沉甸甸的同时，也饱含滚烫的人情味。
More than 20 companies have launched rent relief measures to ease pressure on businesses. Many entrepreneurs are willing to rent out of their own pockets to help their tenants through difficult times. Some landlords have taken the initiative to help themselves and help themselves.
__世上没有从天而降的英雄，只有挺身而出的凡人By@网友___疫情残酷，但残酷中往往另有安慰。
There is no such thing as a hero coming down from the sky. Only mortal By @ netizen _ _ _ is cruel, but often comforted by cruelty.
在焦虑、担忧和无助之外，还有无数的“为众人抱薪者”。
In addition to anxiety, worry and helplessness, there are countless "people for all."
奔赴武汉带领团队研究病毒的73岁传染病学家李兰娟，因“每天只睡三小时”上了热搜，武汉大学人民医院副院长江应安印证了这一说法，“70多岁的老人了，真的是不分昼夜，她凌晨4点下火车，吃过早餐就接着开会。
Li Lanjuan, a 73-year-old infectious disease scientist who headed the team to Wuhan to study the virus, found the phrase confirmed by Changan, vice-president of Wuhan University's People's Hospital.
各个医院的专家、基层的管理者都要见面，把她对疾病的认识告诉我们。
Every hospital experts, grass-roots managers to meet, to tell us her understanding of the disease.
我感觉，这个老太太真的是我们中华民族的脊梁”。
I feel that this old lady is really the backbone of our Chinese nation.
____湖南衡阳90后乡镇医生宋英杰，自大年初一起就坚守岗位，在高速路口收费站检测排查体温，直到2月3日值班交接后回到宿舍突然猝死，因公殉职。
Since the beginning of New Year, Song Yingjie, a township doctor in Hengyang, Hunan Province, stayed on duty from the beginning of the New Year. He checked his body temperature at the toll gate until February 3, when he returned to his dormitory and died in the line of duty.
武汉金银潭医院院长张定宇，身患渐冻症、拖着一双跛脚却依然坚持工作，动员大家“保卫我们的武汉，保卫武汉人民”。
Wuhan gold and silver pool hospital director Zhang Dingyu, suffering from accretion, a pair of lameness but still insist on working, mobilize "to defend our Wuhan, defend the people of Wuhan."
而自疫情爆发以来，已有数位奔走于一线的公安民警献出生命。
Since the outbreak of the outbreak, several public security police have lost their lives on the front line.
基辛格在《论中国》中写道，“中国人总是被他们之中最勇敢的人保护得很好”。
"The Chinese are always well protected by the bravest of them," Kissinger writes in "On China."
而这些大大小小的保护，给了身在困境中的人们以力量和希望。
And these large and small protection, give people in distress with strength and hope.
@豆豆：在湖北，小区只让出不让进了，物业统一为大家采购蔬菜食物，妈妈今天在群里说需要一袋盐和其它做菜的基础佐料，不一会就有其他业主帮忙挂在门外。
@ Doudou: In Hubei, only let out the small area, property unified for everyone to buy vegetable food, mother said today in the group need a bag of salt and other basic ingredients for cooking, and soon other owners will help hanging out the door.
半袋盐，一节藕，一个包菜的。
Half a bag of salt, one lotus root, one cabbage.
妈的，眼泪就是止不住，大家加油，爱这个世界。
Fuck, tears just can't stop, everybody cheer up, love the world.
是的，人间不容易，生存一直以来都是永恒的主题。
Yes, the world is not easy, survival has always been the eternal theme.
明天打开搜索榜，疫情人数还会增加，新一轮或好或坏的消息又会出现，但这些热搜就像一面镜子，折射出最真实的我们，映照出生活的境况和世界的模样。
When the search list opens tomorrow, the numbers will increase and a new wave of good or bad news will emerge, but these hot searches are like mirrors, reflecting the most real of us, the conditions of life and the way the world looks.
而这些真实且及时的搜索数据，也在很多时刻发挥着作用和价值，对日常生活和社会发展来说至关重要。
These real and timely search data also play a role and value in many moments and are vital to daily life and social development.
对普通大众而言，这些搜索数据是获取外界信息、了解各地人们关注点和需求的直观渠道，是个人建立认知和开展行动的判断依据；对机构、公司乃至政府而言，它们则是助力评估外部大环境的有效数据，是作出正确决策的必要参考条件。
For the general public, these search data are a visual conduit for outside information, for understanding the concerns and needs of people everywhere, for building individual perceptions and for carrying out actions, and for institutions, companies and even Governments, they are useful data for assessing the broader external environment and a necessary reference for sound decision-making.
但无论何时都别忘了，这些数据背后是跳动的心脏和鲜活的生命，所以别让热血冷掉，“能做事的做事，能发声的发声，有一分热，发一分光”。
But remember at all times that behind these numbers is a beating heart and a living life, so don't let the blood cold, "can do things, can voice the voice, there is a heat, a light."
尽管没有人能确定具体是哪天，但我们从来不曾怀疑——“疫情结束了”这样的字眼，终会出现在百度搜索榜Top1。
No one knows for sure, but we never doubted that the words "the end of the epidemic" would end up on Baidu's search list.
__（图片来自互联网）策划：三联.CREATIVE监制：李雨旋作者：雪山微信编辑/设计排版：王昊天⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载请联系后台。
2007-9-19 19: 16 Planning: CREATIVE, editor / design of Xueshan micro-letter editor / design layout. Wang Haotian article copyright belongs to Three Lives Weekly. Welcome to friends circle, please contact the backstage.
_。
_.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
这是我们最想看到的热搜，没有之一。
This is the hottest thing we want to see. None of them.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "这是我们最想看到的热搜，没有之一";。
var msg _ title = & quot; This is the hot search we most wanted to see, none of which & quot;;
var msg_desc = "“没有一个春天不会到来”";。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Not a spring never came"; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
