人畜共患病：病毒是如何入侵人类的？。
Human and animal co-morbidities: How does the virus invade humans?
三联生活周刊                      。
Triple Life Weekly.
三联生活周刊。
Triple Life Weekly.
一本杂志和他倡导的生活。
A magazine and the life he advocates.
。
.
人畜共患病（Zoonosis）是现代社会的一种非常危险的新型传染病。
Zoonosis is a new and dangerous infectious disease in modern society.
这些病毒（菌）平时躲在动物体内，不断地进行基因突变和基因重组，伺机寻找入侵人类的机会。
These viruses (bacteria) routinely hide in animals, constantly mutating genes and recombinant genes, waiting for opportunities to invade humans.
科学界主流观点认为，新冠与非典的源头来自蝙蝠，两场疫情相似度很高，可以相互借鉴。
According to the mainstream scientific community, the origin of the new crown and SARS comes from bats, and the two outbreaks are similar and can be replicated.
本文试图对当年那场非典疫情做一些简单的分析，再结合进化论原理对新冠病毒的基本特征做一些解释，希望能帮助大家理解国家防疫政策的必要性，以及减少不必要的恐慌。
This article attempts to do some simple analysis of the SARS epidemic in that year, combined with evolutionary theory to explain the basic features of the new crown virus, hope to help you understand the need for national epidemic prevention policies, and reduce unnecessary panic.
文 | 袁越非典是怎么被控制住的？非典（SARS）疫情于2002年底爆发，2003年7月结束，历时半年多，这个速度在人类和传染病的搏斗史上算是非常快的了，尤其对于呼吸道传染病来说更是快得惊人，主要理由有3个：2003年5月，北京小汤山医院建成，专门收治“非典”病人。
How was Yuan Yue brought under control? The SARS epidemic began in late 2002 and ended in July 2003, more than half a year ago. The speed was phenomenal in the history of human and infectious disease, especially for respiratory infections, for three main reasons: In May 2003, Beijing's Xiaotangshan Hospital was built to treat SARS patients.
1.非典（以及新冠）都是RNA病毒，RNA分子稳定性差，极易降解，在宿主细胞内的寿命不会很长，所以受RNA病毒感染的病人通常只有两个结果：要么彻底治愈，病毒完全消失；要么病人死亡，病毒同样完全消失，基本上没有其他选项。
1. SARS (as well as the new crown) is a RNA virus. RNA molecules are unstable, highly degradable and do not last long in host cells, so RNA-infected patients usually have only two outcomes: either complete cure and complete disappearance of the virus; or the patient dies and the virus also disappears completely, leaving little choice.
（这一条不绝对，有例外，后面再详细说）2.RNA复制时的出错率比DNA高很多，所以RNA病毒的突变率非常高，这也是RNA病毒比较难以对付的主要原因。
RNA viruses are mutagenic to a much higher degree than DNA, and this is the main reason why RNA viruses are more difficult to deal with.
但非典病毒RNA自带一个纠错机制，突变率要低一些，再加上非典病毒是单链RNA，不太容易发生基因重组。
But with a self-correcting mechanism, the SARS RNA has a lower mutation rate, and the SARS virus is a single-strand RNA that is less susceptible to genetic recombination.
相比之下，流感病毒基因组包含8段RNA小分子，如果一个宿主细胞同时感染了两个流感病毒，其RNA片段可以很容易地互换，随机组合成全新的流感病毒，这就是为什么流感病毒那么容易变异的原因，也是为什么流感疫苗每年都要重打的原因。
By contrast, the influenza virus genome contains eight segments of RNA molecules, and if a host cell is infected with two influenza viruses, its RNA fragments can easily be interchanged and randomly assembled into a brand new influenza virus, which is why influenza viruses can mutate so easily and why influenza vaccines are repeated every year.
事后研究表明，非典病毒在整个疫情期间只发生了很少的变异，没有影响这个病毒的基本性质，对付起来要容易得多。
Post-mortem studies have shown that the SARS virus has undergone only a few variations throughout the epidemic and has not affected the basic nature of the virus, making it much easier to deal with.
新冠病毒和非典病毒极为相似，两者的突变率也应该很接近，这是个好消息。
It is good news that the mutation rates of the new crown virus and SARS virus, which are very similar, should be similar.
社区隔离点病毒核酸检测。
Community isolation point virus nucleic acid testing.
（远征 摄）3.非典感染者在未出现症状之前基本上不具备传染性，所以防疫部门只要严密监视流动人口，把所有发热的病人监视隔离就行了，极大地减轻了工作量。
3. People infected with SARS were largely non-contagious before the onset of symptoms, so the epidemic prevention department simply kept a close watch on the floating population and kept all febrile patients under surveillance and isolation, greatly reducing the workload.
如果当年需要把所有到过疫区的人全都隔离起来，防疫成本要高得多，疫情也不会那么快就结束。
If it had been necessary to isolate all those who had been in the affected areas, the cost of vaccination would have been much higher and the epidemic would not have ended so quickly.
截止到目前为止，已有中国、德国和日本的科学家报告了未出现症状的新冠传染案例，但德国方面刚刚更正了那篇论文，原因是论文作者没有直接访问患者，只是采访了和患者接触过的4个人就得出了无症状传染的结论。
So far, scientists in China, Germany and Japan have reported cases of asymptomatic new crown infections, but Germany has just corrected the paper because the paper's authors did not visit patients directly, but only interviewed four people who came into contact with patients and came to the conclusion that asymptomatic transmission.
但后来科学家们采访了病人，发现那位病人其实已经出现了症状，只是周围的人没有看出来而已，这是个更好的消息。
But then the scientists interviewed the patient and found that the patient had already developed symptoms, but the people around him didn't see it, which was better news.
当然了，这篇更正并不能证明新冠病毒一定没办法做到无症状传染，但从目前的情况看，这种情况即使有，概率也是非常低的，而且无症状者的感染能力也不会很高，暂时还不用过分担心。
Of course, this correction does not prove that the new crown virus must not be asymptomatic, but as things stand, the probability is very low, and asymptomatic people aren't likely to become infected, and for the time being they don't have to worry too much.
另外，如果真的出现大量无症状感染者，那就说明新冠病毒的毒性非常低。
In addition, if a large number of asymptomatic infections do occur, that means the new crown virus is very toxic.
从某种程度上说，这也是个好消息。
To some extent, this is good news.
远征 摄事实上，新冠病毒到底有没有无症状传染非常重要，甚至可以说是本次防疫工作最重要的关键点。
In fact, whether or not the new crown virus asymptomatic infection is very important, and can even be said to be the most important epidemic prevention work.
因为假如无症状传染成为常态，那就意味着目前的全民隔离政策会持续相当长的时间，不但老百姓很可能受不了，对中国经济的打击也将是巨大的。
For if asymptomatic transmission were to become the norm, it would mean that the current policy of mass isolation would continue for a considerable period of time, and not only would the population probably suffer, but the impact on the Chinese economy would be enormous.
总结：非典疫情来得快结束得也快，这是全体人类共同完成的一项了不起的壮举，充分展示了现代医学的力量。
Conclusion: SARS epidemic will soon come to an end. It is a great feat that all mankind accomplished together, fully demonstrating the power of modern medicine.
如果这个疫情爆发在古代，后果不堪设想。
If the outbreak occurred in ancient times, the consequences would be unthinkable.
但是，因为这个疫情结束得太快了，而新药研发和疫苗开发的速度却都太慢，基本上没有发挥出任何作用，所以这个病还是导致了很多人的死亡。
But, because the epidemic is coming to an end too quickly, and new drugs and vaccines are being developed too slowly to be of any use, the disease has killed many people.
未来我们必须加快研发速度，才能追得上病毒的脚步。
In the future, we must speed up R & D to catch up with the virus.
非典为什么那么厉害？非典病毒在全世界范围内一共感染了8098人，总数并不算太高，但其中有774人死亡，致死率接近10%，相当高了。
The SARS virus infected 8,098 people all over the world, a modest figure, but there were 774 deaths, or a fairly high death rate of nearly 10 percent.
非典为什么这么厉害呢？下面从3个方面回答这个问题：1.病毒的终极目的绝不是要杀死宿主，它只想利用宿主复制自己，然后扩散出去。
The ultimate goal of a virus is never to kill its host; it is simply to use the host to replicate itself and spread it out.
但病毒复制自己的时候肯定要占用宿主的宝贵资源，病毒扩散时往往也会破坏宿主的细胞，两者都会导致宿主生病，所以宿主生病是病毒在完成自己生命周期的过程中出现的一个副产品。
But viruses replicate themselves with precious host resources, often destroying the host's cells when the virus spreads, both of which cause the host to get sick, so the illness of the host is a by-product of the virus's completion of its life cycle.
比如，非典病毒在入侵人类呼吸道表皮细胞后，便会利用这些细胞完成对病毒RNA的复制和蛋白质外壳的生产。
For example, by invading human respiratory epidermal cells, the SARS virus uses these cells to replicate viral RNA and produce protein shells.
新病毒组装完成之后便会冲破细胞膜逃逸出来，这个过程导致了呼吸道表皮细胞的大面积死亡，这就是为什么非典病人会感到喉咙疼的原因。
When the new virus is assembled, it breaks through the membranes and escapes, a process that causes massive death of the epidermal cells of the respiratory tract, which is why SARS patients feel sore throats.
2003年6月11日，加拿大多伦多综合医院，两名穿着SARS防护服的医护人员从救护车上抬下一名病人。
On 11 June 2003, at Toronto General Hospital, Canada, two medical personnel in SARS protective clothing removed a patient from an ambulance.
2.曾经有一种传染病理论非常流行，大意是说，如果一种烈性病毒感染了宿主，那么感染持续的时间越长，病毒的毒力就越弱，最后双方一定会达成妥协，变成一种互惠互利的共生关系。
2. There was a very popular theory of infectious disease to the effect that the longer a virus infects its host, the less virulent it is, and eventually the two sides will reach a compromise and become a mutually beneficial symbiotic relationship.
但后续研究证明这个理论并不完全正确，存在很多反例，不能用来解释所有的情况。
But follow-up studies have proved that this theory is not entirely correct and that there are many counter-examples that cannot be used to explain all situations.
事实上，病毒毒性的高低和病毒传播方式有很大关系。
In fact, viral virulence has a lot to do with how the virus spreads.
比如那些依靠蚊虫叮咬传播的病毒最希望宿主失去行动能力，方便蚊虫叮咬，所以这类病毒的毒性往往很大，会让病人卧床不起。
Viruses transmitted by mosquito bites, for example, tend to be highly toxic and leave patients bedridden because they most want their hosts to be immobile and mosquito-friendly.
再比如，那些依靠水来传播的病毒往往会导致病人出现严重腹泻的症状，病毒正好通过排泄物扩散至宿主体外，污染居住地附近的水源。
For example, viruses that rely on water for transmission often cause severe diarrhea in patients, where the virus spreads through excreta outside the host, contaminating water sources near the place of residence.
相比之下，那些依靠喷嚏飞沫来传播的呼吸道传染病往往症状较轻，因为病毒需要一个四处走动的宿主帮助自己传播，如果一棍子把宿主打倒了，自己就传播不出去了。
By contrast, respiratory infections that spread by sneezing droplets tend to be less symptomatic, because the virus needs a travelling host to help it spread, and if a stick knocks the host down, it will not spread itself.
既然如此，为什么主要依靠飞沫传播的非典病毒毒性还是那么强呢？一个原因在于人类还有一个特殊的传播渠道，那就是病榻和医院。
That said, why is the SARS virus so virulent, spread mainly by droplets? One reason is that humans also have a special channel of transmission, namely, beds and hospitals.
人类有照顾病人的传统，这是绝大多数动物所不具备的，因此很多人类病毒学会了利用这一点来传播扩散。
Humans have a tradition of caring for the sick that most animals do not, so many human viruses have learned to use this to spread.
事实上，非典病毒最重要的传染途径就是医院和家，病人卧床不起反而对病毒的传播扩散有利。
Indeed, the most important means of transmission of the SARS virus is hospitals and homes, and the fact that patients are bedridden contributes to the spread of the virus.
2003年5月15日，北京小汤山医院的医务人员送别康复出院的“非典”患者。
On May 15, 2003, the medical staff of Xiaotangshan Hospital in Beijing were discharged from SARS patients.
3.但最重要的原因在于，非典对于人类来说是一个新病毒，很可能遭到人类免疫系统的顽强抵抗。
But the most important reason is that SARS is a new virus for human beings and is likely to be resisted by the human immune system.
但是免疫系统是一把双刃剑，很容易反应过度。
But the immune system is a double-edged sword and can easily overreact.
事实上，当年有相当一部分非典病人就是死于免疫系统的过度反应，比如细胞因子风暴（Cytokine Storm，一种强烈的免疫反应）所导致的急性呼吸窘迫综合症和多器官衰竭。
In fact, a significant proportion of SARS patients died from immune-system overreactions, such as acute respiratory distress and multiple organ failure, caused by Cytokine Storm, a strong immune response.
为什么免疫系统会过度反应呢？答案很可能还是和进化有关。
Why does the immune system overreact? The answer may well be evolutionary.
对于一个密集的群体来说，如果其中的某一个体感染了病毒性传染病，那么最好的办法就是不惜一切代价控制病毒的扩散，而不是保住这位个体的生命，所以免疫系统针对病毒感染采取的是宁可错杀一千也不放走一个的策略，以此来维持种群的健康。
For a dense population, if one of these individuals is infected with a viral infection, the best way to do so is to control the spread of the virus at all costs, rather than to preserve the individual's life, so the immune system maintains the health of the population by killing a thousand rather than letting go of a virus.
总结：一种新型传染病到底是重是轻，进程到底是快还是慢，和病毒的基因序列，以及病人的免疫系统状况等等很多因素都有关系，很难事先做出准确预测。
Summary: Whether a new type of infectious disease is heavy or light, whether the process is fast or slow, and the genetic sequence of the virus, as well as the patient's immune system status, are all factors that make it difficult to predict accurately in advance.
这就需要政府的防疫部门密切监视疫情，并尽快做出恰当的反应。
This requires close surveillance of the epidemic by the Government's epidemic prevention services and an appropriate response as soon as possible.
这方面很多国家还处在摸索的阶段，需要不断总结经验，为未来可能爆发的疫情做好准备。
In this regard, many countries are still in the exploratory phase, and continuous lessons need to be learned to prepare for a possible future outbreak.
非典病毒去哪儿了？当年的非典疫情结束之后，非典病毒去哪儿了呢？如果说它彻底消失了，为什么还会出现这个和非典如此相似的新冠疫情呢？下面还是从3个方面来回答一下这个问题：2003年5月14日，在杭州市中医院发热门诊就医的两位感冒患者正急迫地察看自己的X光片中有无肺部感染的迹象。
Where did the SARS virus go after the SARS epidemic ended? If it completely disappeared, why did this new outbreak of SARS occur so similar to SARS? On May 14, 2003, two people with colds at a fever clinic in Hangzhou were urgently checking their X-rays for signs of lung infection.
1.前文说过，RNA病毒稳定性差，烈性RNA病毒很难在宿主体内长期存活，所以非典病毒确实已经彻底从这个世界上消失了，只剩下少数几家病毒实验室还存有样本。
1. As mentioned earlier, RNA viruses are not stable enough for long-term survival in the host, so the SARS virus has literally disappeared from the world, leaving only a few virus laboratories with samples.
但是，同为RNA病毒，普通感冒病毒为什么还在人群中流传呢？这是因为普通感冒病毒（包括很多种）的突变率大都非常高，它们通过突变来逃过免疫系统的攻击，得以常年在人与人之间不停地转移。
But why does the common cold virus, also known as RNA, circulate among people? This is because the mutation rate of the common cold virus, which includes many species, is so high that it eludes the immune system and can be moved from person to person all year round.
另外，普通感冒的症状非常轻，说明这些病毒已经在人类当中流传很久了，人类免疫系统已经适应了这些病毒，不会对它们发起严厉的攻击，所以这些病毒会活得更久一点。
In addition, the mild symptoms of the common cold suggest that the viruses have been circulating in humans for so long that the human immune system has adapted to them without a severe attack, so the viruses will live longer.
也有少数RNA病毒因为各种尚不明确的原因能够长久地生活在宿主细胞内，比如丙肝病毒就是如此。
There are also a few RNA viruses that can live in host cells for long periods of time for reasons that remain unclear, such as hepatitis C virus.
因为这方面案例有限，本文不再讨论。
Since there are limited cases in this regard, they are not discussed here.
也许有人要问，艾滋病毒也是RNA病毒，为什么艾滋病毒活得那么久呢？答案是艾滋病毒属于一种特殊的反转录病毒（Retrovirus），能够将RNA转录成DNA，并整合进宿主的基因组内，以此来躲避免疫系统的攻击。
One might ask why HIV has lived so long, as HIV is also RNA VirusThe answer is that HIV is a specific retrovirus (Retrovirus) that transcribes RNA into DNA and integrates it into the host's genome to ward off attacks from the immune system.
这是符合进化论的一种策略，因为艾滋病毒是依靠性行为来传播的，它必须等到宿主更换性伴侣时才能继续传播下去，所以艾滋病毒的最佳策略就是韬光养晦，静候时机，而不是一旦感染成功就急急忙忙地疯狂复制自己，让宿主很快生病。
This is an evolutionary strategy, because HIV is transmitted sexually and must wait until the host changes sexual partners, so the best strategy for HIV is to bide its time and wait for a moment, rather than rushing to copy oneself and make the host ill quickly if the infection succeeds.
另外，正是由于艾滋病毒的生命周期里包含RNA和DNA这两种状态，使得这个病毒既很容易变异，给疫苗研发带来困难，又能长期躲在宿主细胞内，逃避宿主免疫系统的攻击。
Moreover, it is precisely because the life cycle of HIV contains both RNA and DNA, making it easy for the virus to mutate, making vaccine development difficult and hiding in host cells for long periods of time to escape attacks by the host immune system.
远征 摄2.既然非典病毒已经从人类社会彻底消失了，那么新冠病毒又是从哪里来的呢？答案是蝙蝠。
Since SARS virus has completely disappeared from human society, where does the new crown virus come from? The answer is bats.
这是冠状病毒的自然宿主，这类病毒可以永久地生活在蝙蝠体内，并在不同的蝙蝠种群之间相互传递，交叉感染。
This is the natural host of coronavirus, which can live permanently in bats and cross-infect different bat populations.
长此以往，蝙蝠种群内形成了一个异常庞大而又复杂的冠状病毒基因库，里面包含了各式各样的病毒序列，而且仍然在不停地变化之中。
Over time, an unusually large and complex gene pool of coronavirus has developed within the bat population, containing a wide variety of viral sequences that are still in flux.
一旦某个突变类型正好和人类的某种细胞受体对上了，便能感染人体，完成物种间的跨越。
Once a mutant type is aligned with a human receptor, it can infect the human body and complete an inter-species leap.
当年的非典病毒就是这么来的，如今的新冠病毒也是这么来的。
That was how the SARS virus came into being, and so does the new crown virus today.
与此类似的就是流感病毒。
Similar to this is the flu virus.
这种病毒平时主要躲在鸟类的身体里，也有少部分病毒以猪为自然宿主，这就是我们此前经常听到的禽流感和猪流感。
The virus is usually found mainly in birds, and a small percentage of the virus is naturally hosted in pigs, which is what we have often heard about bird flu and swine flu.
这些寄宿在鸟类和猪体内的流感病毒也在不停地变异，并伺机入侵人体，情况和冠状病毒非常相似。
The influenza viruses that reside in birds and pigs are also mutating and ready to invade the body in much the same way as the coronavirus.
这类传染病统称“人畜共患病”（Zoonosis），这是现代社会的一种非常危险的新型传染病。
This kind of infectious disease is called Zoonosis, which is a new and dangerous infectious disease in modern society.
这些病毒（菌）平时躲在动物体内，不断地进行基因突变和基因重组，伺机寻找入侵人类的机会。
These viruses (bacteria) routinely hide in animals, constantly mutating genes and recombinant genes, waiting for opportunities to invade humans.
人类是病毒最理想的宿主：一来人类活动范围广，足迹遍布全世界，病毒很容易在人类的帮助下迅速扩散（比如非典病毒就坐着飞机迅速扩散至全球）；二来人类的人数和体重都非常大，能装载的病毒数量也要比大多数动物大得多。
Humans are ideal hosts for viruses: first, they can spread quickly with the help of humans (like the SARS virus flying around the world); second, they are very large in number and weight, and can carry much larger numbers of viruses than most animals.
唯一的问题就是人类懂科学，而且执行力很强，所以非典病毒只高兴了没几天就被人类灭绝了。
The only problem is that humans understand science and are so capable of execution that the SARS virus was only happy to be exterminated within a few days.
必须指出，在非典这件事上，人类的运气算是非常好的。
It is important to note that in the case of SARS, human luck is very good.
非典只有一个中间宿主，这就是大名鼎鼎的果子狸。
SARS has only one intermediate host, the well-known civet.
所幸果子狸既不是什么珍稀动物也不是宠物，随着国家一声令下，果子狸交易市场全部关闭，非典病毒便无处可藏了。
Fortunately, civet beavers are neither rare animals nor pets. With the order of the State, the civet market has been closed and there is no place for the SARS virus to hide.
2004年1月6日，广州市森林公安警察在新源禽畜批发市场查获86只果子狸。
On 6 January 2004, the Guangzhou Forest Public Security Police seized 86 civet beavers at the Xinyuan Wholesale Livestock Market.
相比之下，沙特阿拉伯人就没有那么好的运气了。
The Saudis, by contrast, are less fortunate.
因为中东病毒（MERS）的中间宿主是骆驼，当地人不可能把骆驼全杀了，所以这种病毒至今仍然活在骆驼体内，伺机继续向人类扩散。
Because the Middle East virus (MERS) has a camel as its intermediate host, locals cannot kill all the camels, so the virus is still alive in camels, ready to continue spreading to humans.
为什么动物能长期携带某种病毒而不生病呢？这其实是个伪问题。
Why do animals carry a virus for long periods of time without getting sick? It's a fake issue.
之前看到不少文章把蝙蝠捧上了天，蝙蝠确实是一种神奇的动物，对病毒的忍耐力要比其他哺乳动物高很多，但这绝不等于说蝙蝠就不生病。
Bats are indeed a magical animal that has a much higher tolerance for viruses than other mammals, but this does not mean that bats do not get sick.
事实上，我们并不知道寄居在蝙蝠体内的那些病毒对蝙蝠造成了怎样的伤害，也许这些蝙蝠就像得了猪流感的二师兄那样，每天都要忍受病毒的折磨。
In fact, we do not know what damage the viruses that inhabit bats do to bats, who, like their second brother, suffer from swine flu every day.
不管怎样，大多数人类并不真的关心这个问题，我们关心的是那些寄居在动物种群中的病毒会不会发生能够感染人类的基因突变，以及这些突变会不会传到人类身上。
In any case, most humans don't really care about the problem. We are concerned about whether viruses that live in animal populations undergo mutations that infect humans, and whether these mutations can spread to humans.
一旦这样的事情发生了，结局肯定是一场灾难，因为人类的免疫系统在首次面对陌生病毒时一定会做出激烈的反应，就像非典时发生的那样。
Once that happens, the end is sure to be a disaster, because the immune system will react violently when confronted with an unfamiliar virus for the first time, as happened with SARS.
要知道，大部分死于非典的人并不是直接死于病毒本身，而是死于免疫系统对病毒做出的过于激烈的反应。
You know, most people who die from SARS do not die directly from the virus itself, but rather from the overwhelming response of the immune system to the virus.
3.到底怎样才能避免人畜共患病呢？一个明显的答案就是不吃野生动物。
How on earth can we avoid zoonoses? One obvious answer is not to eat wild animals.
如果我们当初不吃果子狸，就不会有那场非典疫情。
If we had not eaten civets, we would not have had the SARS epidemic.
2004年1月10日，世界卫生组织的工作人员前来视察广州的野生动物市场，确定是否还有果子狸售卖。
On 10 January 2004, WHO staff came to visit the wildlife market in Guangzhou to determine whether there were any civet beavers available for sale.
根据《自然》杂志发表于2008年的一篇论文统计，1940-2004年间新出现的300多例传染病当中，人畜共患病的比例为60.3%，其中71.8%来自于野生动物，家禽家畜不到三分之一。
According to a 2008 paper published in the journal Nature, of the more than 300 new infectious diseases that occurred between 1940 and 2004, the proportion of zoonotic diseases was 60.3 percent, of which 71.8 percent came from wild animals and less than one third from poultry and livestock.
但是，比起管住嘴，更重要是管住腿。
However, it is more important to hold the leg than to hold it.
人类和野生动物的大部分直接接触发生在野外，这里所说的绝不仅仅是旅游，更多的情况是人类为了生存的需要，不断开疆扩土，侵占野生动物的地盘，大部分来自野生动物的人畜共患病归根到底都是这么来的。
Most of the direct contact between humans and wildlife occurs in the wild. Far from being just tourism, it is more than just a matter of survival. Humans constantly expand their territories to encroach on wild animals.
总结：即使我们管住了嘴也管住了腿，还是无法保证杜绝一切人畜共患病，因为如今的人类根本无法彻底避免和野生动物的直接&间接接触。
Even if we had our mouths under control, there's no guarantee we won't have all the zoonotic disease that & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45
比如禽流感和猪流感就是通过家禽家畜传染给人类的，我们怎么可能不养鸡养猪呢？猫和狗也有可能成为某种神秘病毒的中间宿主，难道我们就要因此而杀猫杀狗吗？所以，人畜共患病是无法避免的，像非典和新冠这样的传染病未来肯定还会多次爆发，我们只能通过各种渠道普及传染病知识，提高公民的防范意识，同时大力发展由国家主导的防疫体系，加快特效药和疫苗的研发速度，积极地去应对来自大自然的挑战。
If avian and swine flu are transmitted to humans through poultry and livestock, how can we not keep chickens and pigs? Cats and dogs may become intermediate hosts for some mysterious virus. Therefore, we can only popularize the knowledge of infectious diseases through various channels and raise citizens' awareness of prevention.
参考资料《Spillover》，作者DavidQuammen《Plague Time》，作者PaulEwald《Living With Germs》，作者John Playfair《Plagues and Peoples》，作者William McNeill《Infectious Disease: A Scientific AmericanReader》作者档案袁越三联资深主笔，低调，低调。
Reference "Spillover," by David Quammen, Plague Time, by Paul Ewald, Living with Germany, by John Playfair, Plagues and Peoples, by William McNeill, Author of Infernal Disposition: A Scientific American Reader, senior author of A Scientific American Reader, low-key, low-key.
26分钟前三联生活周刊个人微博：@来自民间的叛逆68请戳→《三联生活周刊》新冠肺炎系列报道⊙文章版权归《三联生活周刊》所有，欢迎转发到朋友圈，转载开白请联系后台。
Three Lives Weekly Personal Weibo 26 minutes ago: @ rebellious from civil society 68 please stamp [5prAktiv] New Crown Pneumonia series article copyright by the three Lifestyle Weekly, welcome to forward to friends circle, reprint please contact the backstage.
未经同意，严禁转载至网站、APP等。
Do not reprint to website, APP etc. without agreement.
。
.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
人畜共患病：病毒是如何入侵人类的？。
Human and animal co-morbidities: How does the virus invade humans?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "健康医疗";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; Health & quot;;
var nickname = "三联生活周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "人畜共患病：病毒是如何入侵人类的？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "新冠肺炎和非典相似度很高，两者完全可以相互借鉴。
var msg _ desc = & quot; New Crown Pneumonia and SARS are so similar that the two can learn from each other.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="三联生活周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
