今年还会有金三银四吗？找工作的你还好吗？。
Will there be three silver four this year? Are you all right looking for a job?
唐云路。
Tang Yun Road.
人间像素                      。
Human pixels.
人间像素。
Human pixels.
我要采访一百种人间故事。
I'm going to interview a hundred stories.
。
.
活着实在是个大工程。
Living is really a big project.
只要活着，问题总会一个个来，路，也是一条条走出来。
As long as you live, problems will always come one by one, the road, is also out one by one.
漫长的宅家“假期”还在继续，你还能“宅”得动吗？春节后两个月一直是每年最为活跃的招聘求职旺季，2020 春季的求职市场，对此前“万事俱备，只等春招”的求职者来说，又又又又又变难了吗？阑夕前两天发了一条：去年年底裁员/辞职的，今年找工作都有眉目了吗？最高赞的回答只有两个字：魔鬼“感谢招聘软件推送提醒，年前刚辞职，新工作现在还没有着落”“2020 应届毕业生慌得不行”“我从醒来到现在，BOSS 直聘打开次数不低于 100 次”“因为疫情的原因，想去的公司锁 HC 了”“公司复工第一天宣布裁员，得赶紧找工作”“终于等到视频面试的通知了，希望接下来都能好起来吧”“等不到开工了，好多人涌去淘宝开了店”从数据来看，这个求职季没有开一个好头，但也不能说一糟到底。
After the Spring Festival, the company has been the most active job-hunting season in every year.After the Spring Festival, we have to wait for the job interview.After the announcement of the Spring Festival, the company has been looking for a job.After the announcement of the Spring Festival, the company is looking for a job
BOSS 直聘发布的《2020 年春节后十天人才趋势观察》显示，今年春节后十天（2.3-2.12），就业市场新增招聘需求较 2019 年同阶段减半，其中 100 人以下的小微企业波及最大，新增人才需求锐减 61%.而那些在年前离职、在年后开始找工作的求职者，超半数只青睐千人公司。
Ten days after the Spring Festival 2020 (2.3-2.12), demand for new hires in the job market was halved from the same period in 2019, with micro and small businesses with fewer than 100 employees most affected, with 61% of new talent in demand falling 61%.
人才端的求职积极性受疫情的影响则小于需求端，BOSS 直聘《2020 春节后求职情况调研》也显示，47%的求职者按计划在 2 月 3日 前启动密集求职，16.5%于大年初六、初七已经开始求职。
Job-seekers are less affected by the epidemic than by the demand side, according to the BOSS's Direct Employment Survey for the 2020 Spring Festival, 47 percent of job-seekers start intensive job-hunting before February 3, and 16.5 percent start job-hunting on February 6 and July 7.
此外，仅两成有跳槽考虑的职场人考虑放弃或推迟换工作。
In addition, only 20 percent of job-hoppers consider quitting or postponing a change of job.
自 2 月 10 日各地陆续逐批复工以来，新增招聘需求已经开始恢复。
Since the resumption of work on a case-by-case basis on 10 February, additional recruitment needs have begun to resume.
考虑放弃或推迟找工作的人还在少数，更多的人，已经打点起精神，刷招聘网站、找内推……这就是生活，无论年景如何，总要继续。
Few people are considering quitting or postponing their job search, and many more have picked up the spirit to brush up on recruiting sites and find nudges... This is life, no matter what the years are.
结束了对抗疫情的项目，又开始给自己找工作了丹丹城市：呼和浩特职场年龄：五年丹丹一直觉得，人生的体验比结果更重要。
Ending a program to combat the epidemic, Dendan City: Hohhot Workplace Age: Five Years Dandan has always felt that life's experience matters more than the outcome.
因此不论离开互联网公司去做记者，还是离开媒体寻找下一个机会，她做选择，都很少后悔。
So whether she leaves the internet company to work as a journalist or leaves the media to find her next opportunity, she has few regrets.
半年前，她从前东家离职，准备出国留学，虽然做好了考雅思的计划，但实际上辞职后的三个月，她大多时间都在去看世界的路上，等回到内蒙老家的书桌前开始看书时，呼和浩特已经下了 2019 年的第一场雪。
She left her former employer half a year ago to study abroad. Although she had plans for the IELTS, she spent most of her three months on the way to the world. When she returned to her desk in Inner Mongolia to read, Hohhot had the first snow of 2019.
在回家以后的日子里，丹丹学着给青春期的弟弟做辅导老师，和闺蜜一起做菜、遛狗。
On his way home, Dan learned to be a tutor for his teenage brother, cooking with his girlfriend and walking his dog.
北京的生活和节奏带来的焦虑，逐渐被这种平淡的生活消解。
The anxiety caused by life and rhythm in Beijing is gradually being dissipated by this bland life.
“刚辞职那两个月，我几乎每天夜里一点半都要起来点一百块左右的烧烤，中午睡醒后再点半只烤鸭，明知道这样会逐渐猪化，仍旧控制不住自己熬夜看小说到四五点，吃饭撑到胃疼。
"Two months after I quit my job, I wake up at about 1: 30 every night to order a barbecue, wake up at noon and order half a roast duck, knowing that it will gradually pig out.
”她在《辞职日记》里回忆道，后来她重新回忆那段时间，放纵更多还是来源于焦虑和迷茫。
Later, as she recalls in The Diary of Resignation, her indulgence came more from anxiety and confusion.
回头看看，如果再来一次，丹丹还是会选择裸辞。
In retrospect, if you do it again, Danny will still choose nude words.
但度过了那个阶段，在寻找下一份工作时，眼下关于求职的焦虑，也是实实在在的。
But after that and looking for another job, the immediate anxiety about finding a job is real.
大年初一，丹丹在大学校友群里看到了湖北省蕲春县人民医院的求援信，她和好友多年的默契一下子上线，开始为湖北县镇医院的医护人员募集物资援助。
On the first day of the Lunar New Year, Dandan saw a letter of help from the Agkistrodon Agkistrodon People's Hospital in Hubei Province.
她把自己的微信昵称改成“口罩下乡—丹丹”，怀着“总要做点什么”的热血上路了。
She changed her nickname from "Mask to Country - Dandan" with the "always do something" blood on the road.
两周下来，在丹丹和伙伴们牵头下，口罩、防护服、酒精等物资送到了安居镇、洋坪镇、洪山镇、方咀镇、英山、团风、远山、兴安等在人们视野中并不常见的湖北县镇。
Over the past two weeks, supplies such as masks, protective clothing and alcohol were delivered to Hubei county towns such as Anju, Yangping Township, Hongshan Township, Fangji Township, Yingshan, Tuanfeng, Yuanshan and Xingan, which are not common in people's eyes.
购买物资的善款则大部分来自和丹丹一样的学生白领，35、70、105 这样一笔一笔转账汇集起来。
The bulk of the money to buy supplies comes from white-collar students like Dandan, a collection of 35, 70, and 105 transfers.
在官方重新开始梳理物资之后，丹丹和伙伴们公布了财务明细和物资流向，结束了项目。
After officials restarted sorting through supplies, Dandan and his partners released financial details and material flows, ending the project.
这时候丹丹才顾得上为自己发愁，年前说好的一家公司的面试，先是因为疫情延期，后来这个职位也干脆取消了招聘计划。
It was then that Dandan began worrying about himself. An interview at a company that had agreed to do so a few years earlier had led to the suspension of the job and the cancellation of the job.
丹丹则开始了久违的求职三部曲：刷 BOSS 直聘、改简历、等面试。
Dan began a long-lost job-hunting trilogy: brush BOSS direct employment, change curriculum vitae, and other interviews.
“不论曾经经历过什么惊心动魄和热血上头的故事，最终大家总要回归到正常的生活中去，也渴望回到正常的秩序当中去。
"No matter what thrilling and bloody stories we have been through, eventually everyone has to go back to normal life and to return to normal order.
”正月十五的前一天，另一家公司收下了丹丹的简历，表示先在线上沟通，如果谈得不错会尽快安排视频面试。
The day before January 15, another company accepted Dandan's resume, saying it would communicate online first and arrange a video interview as soon as it worked.
丹丹希望能在疫情结束前就找到一份工作，在生存面前，所有此前的冒险和浪漫都要让位。
Dandan wants to find a job before the epidemic ends, and all previous adventures and romance must give way to survival.
金九银十的落空，把我推进更广阔的空间阿梨城市：北京职场年龄：4 年阿梨的求职计划也已经持续了半年。
The failure of Jin Jiuyin 10 pushed me into the wider space of Apear City: Beijing Working Age: The 4-year pear job search program has also lasted for half a year.
之前在互联网公司做采购的阿梨，最近几个月都在找工作。
Mr. Apear, who used to shop for Internet companies, has been looking for work in recent months.
去年 8 月从一家大型平台裸辞的时候，阿梨没有想到职场空窗期会这么长。
When she nudged herself from a large platform last August, she didn't expect the window to be so long.
“当时的想法是最近一年工作强度挺大的，想先休息下。
"The idea was that the last year had been pretty intense and you wanted to take a break.
”心理预期原本是一两个月时间，“金九银十”怎么着也会有一份新的工作，后来她才发现，市场情况比她想得要糟糕。
It was one or two months before she realized that the market was worse off than she had expected and that she would have a new job.
前两份工作之间，阿梨只休息了一个周末。
Between the first two jobs, Ariel took only a weekend off.
在之前的公司没有太大发展空间，朋友给了内推机会，于是周五离职，周一履新。
Before the company did not have much room for growth, friends gave the opportunity to push inwards, so Friday left, Monday took over.
但这一次，阿梨放了一个长长的假。
But this time, Ah Lei took a long vacation.
阿梨虽然不是职场新人，但是在过去这个冬天，她的职业生涯雷达，仿佛突然失灵。
Although not a newcomer to the workplace, in the past winter, her career radar, as if suddenly failed.
有些平台简历投了没什么回音，有回音的平台也不怎么乐观。
Some platform CVs have received no response, and those that do have an echo are less optimistic.
原本在内推时很有优势的简历，这一次也碰上了“不招人”的尴尬。
Originally put forward when the resume is very advantageous, this time also encountered the "unattractive" embarrassment.
虽然过去几个月一直都有面试，但是阿梨一直没有找到合适的机会，完全对口的职位几乎没有——大公司不缺人、小的公司阿梨又不愿意去。
Although interviews have been going on for the past few months, Apear hasn't found a suitable opportunity, and there's almost no perfect match - there's no shortage of people for big companies, and Apear, a small company, isn't willing to go.
年前最后的一个面试，面到最后，岗位没了。
At the end of the last interview a few years ago, the position was gone.
许多城市都宣布了推迟复工的政策，阿梨在老家却待不下去了。
Many cities have announced a policy of postponing the resumption of work, but Ai in his hometown can not go on.
2 月 2 日，一批公司在线开工的前一天，她回到了北京的家中，开始刷招聘网站。
On February 2, the day before a group of companies started online, she returned to her home in Beijing and began brushing job sites.
虽然放出来的职位不多，但是也有公司在陆续在网站上更新招聘需求。
While not many positions have been released, some companies have been updating their recruitment needs on the site.
阿梨连夜改了简历，希望第二天上班的老板们一打开系统就能看见自己的信息。
Pear changed his curriculum vitae overnight, hoping that the next day's boss will be able to open the system to see their own information.
“有的公司我想去，但还没有合适的职位放出来，我也会去主动留言，BOSS 直聘上一般都会有回复。
"Some companies I would like to go, but there is no suitable position to release, I will also take the initiative to leave a message, BOSS direct recruitment will generally have a response.
”阿梨说，现在她刷 BOSS 直聘，也是缓解焦虑的一种方式。
Now she's using BOSS to hire directly, she says, as a way to relieve her anxiety.
在采购这一行，资源很多都是全国性的，换个城市对阿梨来说，生活上的变化要远大于工作上可能需要重新建构的地方。
In the procurement business, many resources are national, the change in life for Apear is far greater than the work may need to be restructured.
除了北京的职位，阿梨也开始看上海、南京和郑州的信息。
In addition to her position in Beijing, Apear also began to look at information from Shanghai, Nanjing and Zhengzhou.
郑州离她的老家很近，而南京则是她一直喜欢的城市。
Zhengzhou is very close to her hometown, and Nanjing is her favorite city all along.
如果短期内看不到合适的机会，她想趁着这一次，要不干脆换一个城市生活、工作。
If she did not see a suitable opportunity in the short term, she wanted to take advantage of this time, or to change the city life, work.
我知道自己是个普通人，但还是要坚持一下，给自己加油。
I know I'm a normal person, but I have to stick with it and cheer myself up.
晓宇城市：北京职场年龄：8 年晓宇毕业之后第一份工作近 5 年，然后无缝衔接第二份工作近 3 年。
Xiaoyu City: Beijing Workplace Age: 8 years Xiaoyu graduated after the first job nearly five years, and then seamlessly back to back with the second job nearly three years.
本来打算辞职休息一下再找工作，结果赶上家人需要照顾，他就正好在家里踏实待了一段时间，准备年后再找工作。
He was going to quit his job to take a break and look for a job, but when his family needed to take care of him, he stayed home for a while, ready to look for a job a year later.
离开传统教育行业的上一份工作，晓宇的考量是个人的职业发展。
Without her previous job in the traditional education industry, Xiaoyu considered personal career development.
原本离职时间会更早一些，但是刚好公司有个重要品牌活动要上马，直系领导又休了产假，晓宇放弃了别家公司的机会，在公司又多待了几个月。
He would have left earlier, but it happened that the company had a major brand event to launch, the immediate leadership took maternity leave, Xiaoyu gave up the opportunity to stay with the company for a few more months.
等到去年五月离职，裸辞的晓宇焦虑又迷茫。
When he left last May, Xiaoyu, nude, was anxious and confused.
“感觉自己能力特别差，各种跟不上。
"Feel particularly powerless and unable to keep up.
”为了缓解焦虑，晓宇随便找了家公司上了两个月班，结果当然是不合适。
To assuage his anxieties, Xiaoyu took a casual two-month job at a company, with the result, of course, that was inappropriate.
趁着过年，晓宇及时辞职止损了。
Xiaoyu quit in time for the New Year.
“焦虑的后果太沉重，不如踏实下来，缺啥补啥、慢慢来。
"The result of anxiety is too heavy, it is better to settle down, what is lacking, slowly.
”年前，晓宇报了一个线上的互联网运营基础课，四周的时间里从理论到实践都跑一遍，学院里有一部分是刚毕业的年轻人，还有一部分就是像晓宇一样想转行的“职场中年”。
"Xiaoyun reported an online basic course in Internet operations four weeks ago, running from theory to practice, with some of the college's newest graduates and part of the" middle-aged workplace, "like Xiaoyu, who wants to change careers.
因为疫情的影响，老东家准备了好几年都没弄上线的线上业务，被时势逼上了线，原先公司的其他部门老板，也希望晓宇回去。
Because of the epidemic, the old employer had been preparing for several years not to get online business, was forced into line by the situation, the other departments of the former company boss, also want Xiaoyu back.
尽管现在新工作还没有眉目，晓宇也不打算回去，他打定了主意要去互联网公司。
Though his new job was still in the offing and Xiaoyu had no plans to go back, he decided to go to the internet company.
“反正一辈子那么长，努力学习这件事肯定是有回报的。
"It's a long life anyway, and it's definitely rewarding to study hard.
”对于当下的形势，晓宇反而没那么着急。
Xiaoyu was less anxious about the situation.
让自己变强、更有竞争力的过程本身就需要时间，对于没做好足够准备的人来说，“金三银四”也不过是多一些被老板和 HR 打击的时间段而已。
The process of making yourself stronger and more competitive takes time by itself, and for those who aren't prepared enough, Silver Four is just a few more times to be hit by bosses and HR.
聊到最后，晓宇补了一句说：“我还想明白一件事，承认自己是个普通人，特别重要。
At last she added, "I also want to understand that it is particularly important to admit that I am an ordinary person.
”他说以前觉得自己努力了就会不一样，甚至能拯救地球，但是现在想通了，普通人好多事不由自己决定，但是只有努力才能有更大机会变好。
He said he used to think he would make a difference if he tried, and even save the planet, but now he figured out that ordinary people don't decide things for themselves, but only by working hard can they have a better chance of getting better.
“我知道不容易，但想通了以后还是希望自己加油。
"I know it's not easy, but I hope to cheer myself up after I figure it out.
”没想到要用这样的方式招人。
"I didn't think of hiring in this way.
醒醒城市：郑州职场年龄：2 年醒醒到现在，最后悔的一件事就是没有带电脑回老家。
Wake up the city: Zhengzhou working age: 2 years wake up to now, the most regretful thing is not to take the computer home.
她是一家互联网广告公司的招聘者，年后需要长时间在家办公的现状，打了她一个措手不及。
She was a recruiter for an internet advertising company and was taken aback by the long hours she had to work from home.
目前公司规模在一百人左右，接下来为了扩展业务，年后有一大批招聘计划需要推进。
The company is now about 100 people, and there are a host of recruitment plans to take forward in the next year or so to expand the business.
正月初七开始，醒醒和同事们开始在线办公。
The first seven days of the first month, wake up and colleagues began to work online.
因为疫情交通管制的原因，过去的一周多时间，醒醒全靠着自己的手机，和求职者线上沟通、筛选候选人、安排视频面试等全都在 BOSS 直聘的手机应用上完成。
Over the past week or so, due to epidemic traffic control, Wake up on your mobile phone, communicate with job seekers online, screen candidates, arrange video interviews, etc., all done on BOSS direct cell phone apps.
“一开始不太习惯，打字的速度都跟不上，还好应用里能设置常用语，花了半天设置了一下才方便了。
"I wasn't used to it at first. I couldn't keep up with the speed of typing. Fortunately, it took a long time to set up common language in the application.
”在去年 9、10 月的求职季，最多的时候公司一天有 50 人前来面试，而这个求职季，因为一切都转向线上的关系，醒醒的经验和工作方式全都变了。
During the job-hunting season in September and October last year, when the company had 50 people interviewed a day at its peak, wake-up experience and working methods all changed as everything turned to online relationships.
“原先候选人来公司面试，也是他了解公司氛围、对公司建立信任的过程。
"When a candidate comes to the company for an interview, it's how he understands the atmosphere and builds trust in the company.
”现在，醒醒把大量的时间花在面试前的沟通上，信息量相当于初面、有的甚至比初面更多。
Now, waking up and spending a lot of time communicating before an interview can be as much information as at first or even more than at the beginning.
“反正就是早上一睁眼就摸手机，打开手机就开始回消息，另外晚上睡前也是沟通的一个高峰。
"It's all about touching your phone when you open your eyes in the morning, opening your phone and getting back to you at night before going to bed.
”即使如此，还是会有一些求职者会因为这样那样的原因抗拒视频面试。
Even so, some job seekers will resist a video interview for one reason or another.
“可能他在的地方确实不方便，像我的同事们现在也大多在河南各地，封在村里出不来。
"Maybe he was in a really inconvenient place, and most of my colleagues, like me, are now in Henan too, sealed off in the village.
”“过去这一周我们发现，出来找工作的人很少，大部分人会集中在正月十五之后才开始找工作。
"Over the past week we have noticed that very few people come out looking for a job, and most people do not start looking for a job until after the 15th of the first month.
”尽管开通了视频面试的流程，醒醒在过去一周里邀约面试和实际到面的人数都低于预估，“每天在 BOSS 直聘上主动约聊的人数在 100 人左右，具体还没有做详细的统计。
Despite the introduction of a video-interview process, woken-up interviews and actual attendance over the past week have been below expectations, with "around 100 people recruited directly to BOSS each day for active interviews, but no detailed statistics are available.
”醒醒的公司处在快速发展期，需要增加视频制作方面的人手，尽管难度增加，人还是得招。
Wake-up companies are in a period of rapid growth and need more people working on video production, even if it's harder to get people to hire them.
按照醒醒往年的经验，九十月份招进来的大多是应届生，要找到能快速上手、相对经验丰富的员工，主要还是靠春季这次招聘。
Based on past experience, most of the recruits in September were freshmen, and it was mainly in the spring that relatively experienced staff could be found.
到今天为止，醒醒已经完成十五位员工的招聘，等待整体复工的消息出来，就能安排员工入职。
To date, 15 staff members have been woken up to recruit, waiting for the news of the resumption of work as a whole, so that staff can be deployed.
有两个岗位特别急需，已经在线上加入了团队办公。
Two positions are particularly urgent and have been added to the team work online.
一场疫情，全国延迟开工，准备春季求职的人们，正面对着巨大的不确定性。
A pandemic, the nation's delay in starting work and preparing for spring job-seekers, is facing huge uncertainty.
这难免令人不安。
This is hardly unsettling.
住宿餐饮业、批发零售业、旅游业、商贸业等行业的中小公司在本次疫情中遭到严重打击，但是物流、医疗健康、教育行业等行业也迎来了新的机会。
Small and medium-sized companies in the hotel and catering industries, wholesale and retail trade, tourism and trade industries have been hard hit by the epidemic, but new opportunities have opened up in the logistics, health and education sectors.
求职市场发生的变化当然也不止于此，更多公司提高了储备人才的门槛，原先吸纳应届生最多的岗位，整体需求也相应减少。
The changes that have taken place in the job market certainly go beyond this. More companies have raised the threshold for the pool of talent, originally absorbing the largest number of new students, and the overall demand has been correspondingly reduced.
这个求职季的影响可能会一直延续到下半年，影响秋季的求职季。
The impact of the season is likely to continue into the second half of the year, affecting the fall job-seeking season.
换句话说，对于准备好了的人来说，竞争陡然加剧的求职季是一个比预想中更难打的副本。
In other words, the job-hunting season, with its steep rise in competition, is a more difficult replica than expected for those who are ready.
但对于毫无准备的人来说，除了焦虑、迷茫，能做的也还有很多。
But for the unprepared, there is so much more to do than worry and confusion.
有些人趁着这个当口，认真理了理自己的求职技能包，调整了求职方向。
Some people take advantage of this moment, carefully organized their own job-hunting skills package, adjusted the direction of job-hunting.
有些人想清楚自己辞职只是为了逃离无聊的重复工作，趁着在家办公的机会，想办法提升自己的效率。
Some people want to quit just to escape the drudgery of repetitive work, take the opportunity to work from home, and find ways to improve their productivity.
各地的线下招聘会取消，应届生更早地开始投入线上招聘渠道……焦虑似乎是笼罩在所有求职者头上的阴霾，但每个人都有各自的日子要过，有各自不同的坚持与节奏。
Offline job fairs are canceled everywhere, and new students start hiring online much earlier... Anxiety seems to hang over all job seekers, but each has his or her own day to live, with different persistence and rhythm.
就比如丹丹在疫情中拿出自己加班的劲头投入了志愿者项目，阿梨把视野拓宽到其他城市，晓宇边充实自己边坚持等待机会，醒醒则成了抱着手机面试候选人的赛博“BOSS”。
Just as Dandan's drive to work overtime in the face of the epidemic was invested in volunteer projects, Apee broadened his vision to other cities, and Xiaowu enriched himself by waiting for a chance to wake up and wake up as a Bob "BOSS" holding a candidate for a cell-phone interview.
今年的“金三银四”可能没那么闪闪发光，但注定不凡。
This year's Golden Triple Silver IV may not be that shiny, but it's destined to be exceptional.
愿你能找到自己的光。
May you find your own light.
也愿你健康平安。
May you be healthy and safe.
互动时间正在求职的你，来说说近况吧？我们从留言中继续送五份视频网站包月 VIP 会员，为你的求职之路减压✨。
We continue to send five video websites to VIP members every month to help you find a way to find work.
唐云路。
Tang Yun Road.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
今年还会有金三银四吗？找工作的你还好吗？。
Will there be three silver four this year? Are you all right looking for a job?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "情感";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间像素";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; human pixel & quot;;
var msg_title = "今年还会有金三银四吗？找工作的你还好吗？";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
var msg_desc = "今日扎心一问。
var msg _ desc = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; today.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人间像素";。
Var title = & quot; human pixel & quot;;
