一线心理防疫师：我想拥抱每一个正经历痛苦的人丨人间。
First-line psychopathologist: I want to embrace everyone who is experiencing pain.
黑特。
Hart.
人间theLivings                      。
The Lives on earth.
人间theLivings。
The Lives on earth.
以叙事之美，重构我们的生活。
Restructure our lives with the beauty of narration.
。
.
“很多人以为，医护人员看惯了生死离别，内心麻木了，也就不会再被同情心和情绪所困扰，这其实是一种误解。
"It is a misconception that many doctors and nurses are used to seeing life and death, are so numb that they are no longer obsessed with compassion and emotion.
”配图 | Sipa图片社前  言这是一场战争，在新年的伊始，爆发在每一个普通的、平凡的中国人身边。
AT THE beginning of the new year, it erupted around every ordinary, ordinary Chinese.
这是我们的战争，我们热切地讨论、谨慎地分析，为灾难中陨落的生命而痛惜，为医者大无畏的精神所感动，为我们能为之所做的点滴小事而不懈努力。
This is our war, and we enthusiastically discussed, carefully analyzed, lamented the loss of life in the disaster, moved by the fearless spirit of the healer, and worked tirelessly for the little things we could do for it.
人生海海，我们且行且惜。
Life is a sea, and we cherish it.
网易人间「我们的战争」特辑，讲述每一天，我们与疫情赤膊相见。
The Netease World "Our War" feature tells us about each day and we are not exposed to the epidemic.
我们的战争丨连载12腊月二十九，陈楠在朋友圈里发了一句，“我的家乡生病了”，但很快就淹没在各种动态里，大家谈论着疫情和N95口罩，“隔着手机屏幕，都能感受到那种恐慌的情绪在传播”。
On the 29th of December, Chen Nan makes a statement in a circle of friends, "My hometown is sick," but it quickly submerges itself in the dynamics of talk about the epidemic and the N95 mask.
陈楠是一名全职心理咨询师，和朋友在上海的徐汇区开了一家工作室，几天前在父母的劝阻下，她取消了返乡计划。
Chen Nan, a full-time counselor and friend who runs a studio in Shanghai's Xuhui District, cancelled her return home a few days ago after her parents discouraged her.
可怎么都放心不下，除夕夜又给家里打去了视频电话。
But how can all worry, New Year's Eve to the home called a video phone.
她最担心的是父亲。
It was her father who worried most.
父亲原先患有高血压和糖尿病，万一不幸被感染，这些基础疾病只会让病情雪上加霜。
The father had high blood pressure and diabetes, and in the event of an unfortunate infection, these basic conditions would only make matters worse.
可父亲却表现得满不在乎，只抱怨着封城后的菜价，“他是不想让我担心”。
His father, however, showed indifference, complaining only about the price of the vegetables after the siege. "He didn't want me to worry."
通话持续了78分钟，父母反复叮嘱陈楠要加强防护。
The call lasted 78 minutes, parents repeatedly told Chen Nan to strengthen the protection.
挂断前，看着父母的愁容，陈楠的视线又模糊了，想安慰几句，脑子却一时短路，悲伤和焦虑一齐涌上来，欲言又止，最后只是简单地说了一句——“不要出门”。
Before hanging up, looking at the parents' sad face, Chen Nan's eyes again blurred, trying to comfort a few words, brain short-circuited, sad and anxious come up together, desire to stop, and finally simply said - "do not go out."
按下红色的挂断键，陈楠在床沿坐了整整一刻钟，等眼泪全干了，看了一下手机里的时间。
Press the red button, Chen Nan sat on the edge of the bed for a whole quarter of an hour, waiting for the tears to dry, looked at the time in the cell phone.
庚子年就这么到了。
Gengzi year just arrived.
这些天，陈楠总是忍不住一直在回想着那座江城，伴她长大的地方，满满的全是童年和青春的回忆。
These days, Chen Nan always can't help but think about the river city, with her growing up, full of memories of childhood and youth.
滚滚东流的长江水，坐在那些老码头上，月夜下的江水就像母亲的手，抚慰着孩提时的梦。
Eastward flowing Yangtze River water, sitting on those old docks, under the moonlight like the mother's hand, soothing childhood dreams.
“武汉人的‘过早’是天大的事情。
"Wuhan people's' premature 'is a big thing.
”“过早”在湖北方言里，就是吃早餐的意思。
"Early" in Hubei dialect means to eat breakfast.
她最爱吃的早点，除了举国闻名的热干面，还有福庆和的牛肉粉。
Her favorite breakfast, in addition to the country-famous hot and dry noodles, but also Fuqing and beef powder.
大年初一那天，陈楠全副武装后，到小区附近的超市采购食品，街道行人稀少，“人们口罩上方的眼神充满了戒备”。
On New Year's Day, Chen Nan armed, to the neighborhood supermarket to purchase food, street pedestrians are scarce, "people's eyes above the mask is full of vigilance."
回家开门的时候，住在楼上的阿婆正去底楼倒垃圾，见到陈楠还说∶“小姑娘，你的口罩太薄了。
When I opened the door, my mother, who lives on the ground floor, was emptying the rubbish. She said, "Your mask is too thin, little girl.
”陈楠朝阿婆点了点头。
"Chen Nan nodded to her.
跟随疫情而来的，还有恐慌。
What followed the outbreak was panic.
“恐慌的传播速度更快，因为情绪是可以传染的。
"Panic spreads faster because emotions can be contagious.
”手机上接收到的一切信息都和疫情有关，家乡的医疗物资告急、爆发式增长的确诊病例，这些消息催生出了大量的负面情绪，犹如一大片看不见的雾霾，迫使每个人大口吸入。
All the information received on the phones has to do with the epidemic, the urgent nature of medical supplies in their home communities and the explosion of confirmed cases, which have generated a lot of negative emotions, like an invisible haze that forces everyone to breathe in.
“如果过量接收讯息，会加重焦虑和恐慌。
"If you receive too much information, it can exacerbate anxiety and panic.
”陈楠关闭了微信的朋友圈，又卸载了微博，到了下午干脆关了手机。
Chen Nan closed her circle of friends and uninstalled her microblog, shutting it down in the afternoon.
一直到晚上8点，她才忽然从睡梦中惊醒，慌忙打开手机——因为她督促过家人，每晚要报平安。
It wasn't until 8 p.m. that she woke up from her sleep and nervously switched on her cell phone -- she had urged her family to be safe every night.
自己身在异乡，至亲远在疫区，恐惧和抑郁牢牢束缚住她，“‘医者不能自医’啊，哪怕是心理咨询师，也还是要面对自身的心理危机，这一点逃不掉也躲不过，但我还是有一些自我疏导的办法”。
She is in a foreign country, the closest relatives in the epidemic area, fear and depression firmly shackled her, "the 'doctor can not do her own medicine' ah, even psychological counselors still have to face their own psychological crisis, this can not escape, but I still have some way to self-help.
陈楠在床上蜷缩着双腿，膝盖置于胸前，轻轻地搂住小腿，给自己一个“温暖的拥抱”。
Chen Nan curled up in bed with her knees on her chest, slipped her arms around her calves and gave herself a "warm hug".
“人有一个特点就是自言自语，我尝试着用一种可以接受的温柔的语调，和自己交谈，来安抚自己。
"A person is characterized by self-talk, and I try to soothe myself by talking to myself in an acceptable and gentle tone.
”十几分钟过后，她开始做“正念冥想”，“简单来说，这是一种非常减压的冥想方法，可以缓解内在的不良情绪。
Ten minutes later, she began to meditate. "Simply put, this is a very stress-reducing meditation technique that relieves your inner negative emotions.
有人也许会把它想得非常复杂，但实际上并不难，只需要10分钟就好。
Some people may think it is very complicated, but it is not difficult in fact, it only takes 10 minutes.
”那晚9点，陈楠的搭档打来电话，两人终于有机会把这几日堵在内心的愁苦，悉数倾吐出来，电话那头，对方一直倾听，陪她哭泣，帮她疏通了内心的栓塞，“产生情绪问题的时候，良好的社会支持非常重要，我和她是最好的朋友，也是彼此的心理咨询师”。
"At 9: 00 that night, Chen Nan's partner phoned, and they finally had a chance to unload all the worries that had gripped their hearts for a few days.
此时的陈楠并没有想到，自己有一天，会选择“主动寻找”这样的痛苦。
At this point Chen Nan did not think, one day, will choose to "actively seek" such pain.
一切都缘于一位长期咨客向她讲述的一段经历。
It all started with an experience that a long-time guest told her.
这位咨客在微信上向她求助，说眼下就像是战乱时刻。
The guest asked for her help in a letter, saying it was like a time of war.
他在家把妻儿安顿好，戴上口罩，挤进超市的抢购狂潮，买足了一个礼拜的量。
He settled in his wife and children, put on a mask, squeezed into the supermarket rush, and bought enough for a week.
再扛着几个塞满的超大购物袋，跑去了附近的药店，这时口罩早已断货，只买到了2瓶酒精。
Carrying a few oversized shopping bags and heading to a nearby drugstore, the mask was out of stock and only two bottles of alcohol were bought.
傍晚回到家，他只是在吃饭时咳嗽了一声，一旁念初中的女儿见状，就赶紧把身子往后一缩，紧蹙着眉头，用一种生硬的语气呵斥他∶“老爸，你离我远一点！不要传染给我。
When he got home in the evening, he coughed just as he was eating, and as soon as his daughter from junior high school saw her, he shrank back, frowned, and scolded him in a stiff tone: "Daddy, stay away from me! Don't give me the infection.
”起初，他并不在意，埋头给女儿夹菜。
"At first he didn't mind, so he buried his head in the garnish for his daughter.
可女儿却移开了碗，开始变本加厉起来，不断地责怪他：“明明已经提醒你出门务必要戴两个口罩，为什么最后还是只戴了一个？这种淡蓝色的一次性口罩那么单薄，带有病毒的飞沫能够轻易攻破，要是被感染了，不就害了全家？”他心里有些委屈，因为现在口罩异常紧俏了，以前家里也就囤了一小包，他想为女儿多省一个。
But the daughter moved the bowl away and began to blame him again and again.Why did you end up wearing only one mask when you went out? The light blue disposable mask was so thin that virus-infested droplets could easily break through.
晚上，他坐在沙发上看新闻，女儿又走过来问他∶“老爸，你从外面回来的时候，洗手了吗？”“肯定洗了啊，不洗手怎么吃饭?”他反问女儿。
He sat on the couch reading the news that evening, and her daughter came up to him and asked him, Dad, did you wash your hands when you got back from the outside? Surely you washed, how can you eat without washing your hands? he asked his daughter.
可女儿还是不依不饶，反复追问他到底有没有洗手，他被问得烦了，面带愠怒地说了声“洗了洗了”。
But the daughter persisted, asking him again and again if he had washed his hands, and he was annoyed, saying sullenly, "Wash it."
“老爸你这个态度就是心虚，绝对没有洗。
"Dad, this attitude is guilty, absolutely not wash.
”女儿嫌弃地看着他。
"Her daughter looked at him distasteful.
“好，既然你说我没洗手，那我现在就再去洗一遍。
"Well, since you said I didn't wash my hands, I'll do it again.
”“你现在洗手还有什么用？说不定已经把病毒传给我了。
"What's the use of washing your hands now? Maybe you've passed the virus on to me.
”女儿瞪了他一眼，转身跑进书房里，“砰”的一声摔了房门。
"Her daughter glared at him, turned and ran into the study, slamming the door.
他冲进屋把女儿狠狠地训了一顿。
He rushed into the room and scolded his daughter.
一听见哭声，妻子赶忙把他拽了出来，帮着女儿数落他∶“你平常说最心疼女儿，今天怎么又舍得朝她身上撒气了?”“我根本不知道她到底怎么了。
When she heard the cry, she pulled him out quickly and helped her daughter scold him: "You normally say you love your daughter the most, but how come you are so angry with her today?
”他说，当今疫情肆虐，自己孤身在外冲锋陷阵，跟别人比赛抢购物资，可是当他回到家，面对至亲这种挑剔又冷漠的态度，令他感到心寒。
He said he felt chilled when he returned home to face the fastidious and aloof attitude of his closest relatives as he battled his battles for supplies on his own.
“今天我也不知道为什么，在微信上说了这么多，真的打扰你了。
"Today I don't know why, I said so much in the micro-letter, really disturb you.
”咨客半开着玩笑，“说这些要收费吗？”看到这句话，陈楠只得故作轻松地说，当下是特殊时期，这种情况要特殊处理，而且是老顾客，应当免费“义诊”，随后对他做了一番劝导。
"Do you charge for all this?" Chen Nan said, with assumed ease, that this was a special time, and that this was a special case, and that it was a regular customer who should be treated free of charge.
很快，又有一位朋友给她留言说，自己在1月13号从湖北回到北京的住宅，疫情爆发后，“湖北人”成为身上撕扯不掉的耻辱标记，加上自身敏感程度较高，加剧了内心的痛楚，“朋友是一个善于‘自我觉察’的人，当时我在劝慰他的时候，会让他把一些感受，尽量详细地描述出来，去做一个‘澄清’，他说那种遭人冷眼和嫌弃的滋味，就像作家方方的小说《万箭穿心》”。
Soon, another friend left a message for her, saying that after the outbreak of the epidemic on January 13 in her home in Beijing from Hubei, the Hubei people had become an indelible mark of shame.
“有时候我们很难去真正理解另一个人的痛苦。
"Sometimes it's hard to really understand another person's pain.
”从那时起，陈楠开始关心身边朋友的遭遇：有个闺蜜在通话中对着男友痛哭，可对方只觉得愁烦，跟她谈了分手；有同学在朋友圈里开和疫情相关的玩笑，却被共同好友批评“不合时宜”……在疫情的重压之下，人与人之间的关系忽然就变得冷漠和疏离，每个人都成为一座孤岛，活在“平静的绝望”之中。
From then on, Chen Nan began to care about what had happened to her friends: a girl was crying over her boyfriend on the phone, but the other friend was upset and broke up with her.
敏感的人变得更加敏感，过去埋下的痛苦的种子，就在此时生根发芽。
Sensitive people become more sensitive, and the seeds of pain sown in the past germinate.
陈楠萌生了做公益的想法，“哪怕起到的作用微乎其微，至少我也应该做点什么”。
Chen Nan came up with the idea of doing public goods, "even if it made little difference, at least I should do something."
在成为心理援助志愿者之前，陈楠在朋友圈里发了一张蓝黄相间的图片，黄框里是一串027开头的电话号码。
Before becoming a volunteer psychologist, Chen Nan handed out a blue-and-yellow picture of a string of 027 phone numbers in a yellow box.
这张图片出自人民日报在1月24日发表的微博∶武汉市民在出现严重心理危机时，可以拨打这条免费的心理援助热线。
The photo was published in the People's Daily's Weibo on January 24. Wuhan residents can call this free psychological help line in case of serious psychological crisis.
“027-85844666。
"027-85844666.
”这串号码陈楠背得很熟练，“原先这也叫武汉心理医院‘心心语’热线”。
"This string of numbers Chen Nan learned very skillfully," originally this is also called Wuhan psychological hospital 'heart language' hotline.
在汇总了相关信息后，陈楠意识到一个问题——国内设立的心理援助公益热线，其中湖北省仅占6条（数据截止到1月26日），分别是武汉、宜昌、襄阳、随州、十堰和孝感，而且绝大部分的工作时间是早8点到晚21点。
After summing up the relevant information, Chen Nan became aware of a problem - the establishment of a domestic psychological help hotline, Hubei Province accounted for only six (as of January 26), namely Wuhan, Yichang, Xiangyang, Suizhou, Shiyan, and filial piety, and the vast majority of working hours are from 8 a.m. to 21 p.m.
此外的11个小时，对那些遇到心理危机的人而言，是一段危险的空档期，再加上热线资源有限，最需要的人可能得不到及时的施助。
The additional 11 hours are a dangerous gap for those experiencing a psychological crisis and, coupled with limited hotline resources, those most in need may not be reached in a timely manner.
1月27日，全国累计确诊病例是4515例，相比于病例快速增长的1月24日，翻了近3倍，湖北省确诊1291例，其中武汉892例，同样暴增的还有恐慌的情绪。
On January 27, a cumulative total of 4,515 cases were diagnosed nationwide, nearly threefold compared with the fast-growing number of cases on January 24, when 1,291 cases were diagnosed in Hubei Province, including 892 in Wuhan.
就在同一天，国家卫健委疾控局发布了《新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎疫情紧急心理危机干预的指导原则》，其中一线医护人员和确诊患者被列为干预的第一级人群，第二级干预人群为轻症患者，第三级人群则是与第一、二级人群有关的人，如家属、同事、朋友以及参与后方救援的志愿者，“这三个级别的人群也是我们优先施助的对象”。
On the same day, the NDRC issued Guidelines for Urgent Psychological Crisis Intervention for Coronavirus Infected Pneumonia, in which front-line medical personnel and confirmed patients were classified as the first group of intervention, the second level of intervention was mild, and the third level was related to primary and secondary groups such as family members, colleagues, friends and volunteers involved in the rescue work.
当天下午，在朋友的介绍下，陈楠加了一名心理志愿者组织的审查员，接受资格审查后，很快被拉入了“心理援助联络群”。
In the afternoon, in the introduction of friends, Chen Nanga a psychological volunteer organizations examiner, accepted the qualification, was quickly drawn into the "psychological assistance contact group."
群内的成员都属于行业领域的“精兵强将”，绝大部分都持有二级咨询师资格证，有些人还具有丰富的现场心理急救经验。
Group members belong to the industry "elite", the vast majority of them hold a second-level consultant certificate, some of them also have rich experience in the field of psychological first aid.
援助群实行24小时值班制，最初，陈楠被安排的值班时间是晚9点到早7点。
The assistance group operates on a 24-hour shift, with Chen Nan initially scheduled to be on duty from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m.
值班期间，她就一直在群里等待分派咨询任务。
While on duty, she had been waiting in the group for assignments.
“疫区一线的医护人员更容易面临心理危机。
"First-line health care workers in epidemic areas are more likely to face psychological crisis.
”一名呼吸科医生告诉陈楠，那天在他们竭力救治了很久之后，病人还是走了。
Chen Nan was told by a respiratory doctor that the patient had left that day, after a long time of intensive care.
这位医生心里很歉疚，怀疑自己是否真的尽力了，在病床被推走的那一刻，他很想鞠个躬，可时间根本不允许，他只能立马转身去看下一位病人。
The doctor was so sorry that he doubted whether he had really done his best. He wanted to take a bow the moment the bed was wheeled away, but time did not permit it.
当晚，这位医生入睡很困难，想哭却不能出声。
That night, the doctor had trouble falling asleep, trying to cry but unable to make a sound.
医护们真正有效休息的时间并不长，第二天还要面对高强度的工作压力，越强迫自己入眠，就越适得其反。
Health-care workers don't really have much time for effective rest, and the next day they face high levels of stress. The more you force yourself to sleep, the more counterproductive.
脑海里担心的事情也越来越多，医生开始害怕自己万一有个三长两短，家里的顶梁柱就垮了，他更忧心在这个危急关头，家人会不会出现状况。
As more and more things grew in his mind, the doctor began to fear that if something should happen to him, the roof of the house would fall and he was more worried about what might happen to his family at this critical juncture.
“人在面对重大威胁的时候，身心会产生相应的调适反应，这也就是应激反应，这位咨询者就是急性应激反应。
"When faced with a major threat, the body and mind react accordingly, and that's the stress response," said the counselor.
说到应激反应，它有警觉期、抵抗期和衰竭期这三个阶段。
When it comes to stress response, it has three phases: alertness, resistance and exhaustion.
其中抵抗期也是心理干预的重点时间，但是很大一部分的医护工作者，应激程度已经到了中度到重度，严重影响了工作才来求助。
The period of resistance is also the focus of psychological intervention, but a large proportion of health care workers, the degree of stress has reached moderate to severe, seriously affected the work to seek help.
“白衣战士也是血肉之躯，都有自己的软肋和痛楚，当时我给了他两个建议，第一个是每天盘点自己认为做得好的地方，第二个是增强他自己的社会支持，多和自己的伙伴待在一块，绝对不要互相指责。
I gave him two pieces of advice. The first was to take stock every day of what he thought he was doing well. The second was to strengthen his own social support by spending more time with his companions and never blaming each other.
”从成为“心理咨询志愿者”的这一天开始，繁重的咨询任务也给陈楠自己带来了挑战，有时候值夜班，身心疲惫，很容易被咨询者的负面情绪蓦然攫住，对自身造成“替代性创伤”。
From the day she became a volunteer counselor, Chen Nan has been challenged by heavy counseling tasks, sometimes night shifts, physical and mental fatigue, and the sudden capture of a counselor's negative emotions, creating a "substitute trauma" for herself.
她曾在凌晨1点半，为一位患者家属提供心理援助。
She had provided psychological assistance to the family of a patient at 1.30 a.m.
这位咨询者的亲人当前属于重症，只能干着急，家里的几个人都已经情绪崩溃，陈楠陪着对方哭泣，在结束咨询后，她的眼泪依旧止不住，“我想到了自己的父母”。
The counselor's relatives are now seriously ill, have to worry, several people in the family have been emotional breakdown, Chen Nan accompanied the other crying, after the end of the counseling, her tears still can not stop, "I think of their parents.
所幸群里一位来自湖南的咨询师，为她提供了帮助，而此前陈楠自己系统地学习过心理急救，这在后来很多关键时刻也派上了用场。
Luckily, she was helped by a consultant from Hunan province, who had studied psychological first aid on a systematic basis, which came in handy at a number of critical moments later.
每天中午，陈楠醒来的第一件事，就是看丁香园的全国疫情实时动态，面对那只“流血的大公鸡”，她的家乡就挤在中间那一块，已经红得发黑，又像是在结痂。
Every noon, Chen Nan woke up the first thing, is to see the Lilac Garden of the real-time national epidemic situation, the face of the "bleeding rooster," her home in the middle of the block, red and black, like a scab.
2月1日，全国累计确诊病例11791例，湖北省7153例。
On February 1, a total of 11,791 cases were diagnosed nationwide and 7,153 in Hubei Province.
陈楠打了一通电话，刚喊了声“老特老俩”，“鼻子就进醋了”。
Chen Nan made a phone call, just called "old two", "nose into the vinegar."
这个时候，连讲一口武汉话，也让人心酸。
At this time, even a mouthful of Wuhan dialect, it is also heartbreaking.
当晚11:45，她接到一个咨询任务。
At 11: 45 in the evening, she received an advisory mission.
咨询者是一名医生，说自己“快要撑不住了”，对方的声音嘶哑，听上去像刚在噩梦中惊醒。
The counselor, a doctor, said he was "on the verge of breaking down," with a hoarse voice that sounded like he had just awakened from a nightmare.
这名医生说，他现在正准备休息，但最近这几天，无论身处何地，在做任何事的时候，都感觉到自己还奋战在隔离病区，即便是换了衣服，依然觉得自己还穿着白色的防护服，戴着N95和透明面罩，眼前所有真实的场景都被医院的病房所取代，这种画面让他感到异常压抑，时常还会伴有心悸和恶心的躯体化症状。
The doctor said he was getting ready to rest, but in recent days, wherever he was and whenever he was doing anything, he felt like he was still in the quarantine zone, wearing a white suit, N95 and a transparent mask, and all the real scenes were replaced by hospital wards, often with palpitations and nausea.
陈楠很快意识到，这位医生的状况已经十分严重了。
Chen Nan soon realized that the doctor's condition was already very serious.
在病区里长时间超负荷运转，精神压力过大，情绪无处宣泄，对方的日常生活已经被严重打乱，产生了一种不真实的抽离感。
Long periods of over-loading in the sick area, excessive mental stress, emotional nowhere to vent, the other side of daily life has been seriously disrupted, resulting in an unreal sense of alienation.
此时需要立即采用心理急救，才能帮助这位医生摆脱焦虑的困扰，恢复平静。
The immediate need for psychological first aid to help the doctor out of anxiety and restore calm.
在陈楠评估完，进一步去询问的时候，由于通话质量不佳，对方一直反复地喊“喂”。
Chen Nan finished the evaluation, further questioning, due to the poor quality of the calls, the other side has been repeatedly called "Hello."
她保持着平静柔和的语调∶“能听见我的声音吗？”直到对方确认后，陈楠才开始“急救”。
She maintained a calm, gentle tone: "Can you hear me?" Chen Nan did not begin "first aid" until the other party confirmed.
“我当时听到他的语速非常快，就请他先试着把呼吸和语速都放慢下来，第一遍他做的不是很好，到了第二遍就好一些了。
"When I heard him speak very fast, I asked him to try to slow down both his breathing and his speaking speed. The first time he didn't do very well, the second time he did.
接着我让他来描述一下眼前看到的场景，比如脚下的地面是什么样的，身边的环境是什么，现在自己穿的是什么颜色的衣服。
Then I asked him to describe what he saw in front of his eyes, such as what the ground was like at his feet, what his surroundings were, and what color he was wearing now.
”陈楠之所以让他尽可能详细地描述出来，是暂时让他转移注意力，和当下的现实环境重新建立联系。
Chen Nan asked him to describe it in as much detail as possible, temporarily distracting him from his current reality.
对方的声音略显发颤，断断续续地描述完面前的窗户后，询问他做的是否正确，在陈楠的鼓励下，他再描述下一个事物。
The voice of the other side slightly tremble, after intermittent description of the window before him, asked if he was doing the right thing, with Chen Nan's encouragement, he described the next thing.
“你做的很好。
"You've done a good job.
现在拍几下自己的膝盖，用膝盖去感受一下被拍击的感觉。
Now slap your knee a few times and feel it with your knee.
”陈楠对他说。
'said Chen Nan to him.
接下来，陈楠教对方把注意力集中放在自己的呼吸上。
Next, Chen Nan taught the other person to focus on his breathing.
然而，就在急救进行到下一步的时候，电话突然被对方挂断了，通话时长仅持续了25分钟。
However, just as the first aid was proceeding, the call was suddenly cut off and lasted only 25 minutes.
陈楠立即回拨过去，对方表达了歉意，说自己刚才接到新任务，要赶快过去，只能下次再来。
Chen Nan immediately called back, the other side expressed apologies, said he had just received a new mission, to hurry over, can only come again.
陈楠赶紧嘱咐他∶“这几天尽量不要一个人独处，多和同伴待在一块。
Chen Nan hurriedly charged him: "These days try not to be alone, more with the company together.
”接着，双方都像在抢时间一样，挂了电话。
"Then, as if fighting for time, they hung up the phone.
面对咨询中出现的这种突发状况，陈楠有些担忧∶“这种心理急救是一次性的干预，主要是帮助他自助，接下来他要依靠自己去改善情绪。
"This psychological first aid is a one-off intervention, mainly to help him help himself, and then he has to rely on himself to improve his mood.
”等到1:15分，陈楠又和另一位咨询者通了电话。
By 1: 15 a.m. Chen Nan telephoned another consultant.
刚接听时，对方停顿了1分钟，只发出隐隐的抽泣声，像是刚哭过。
Just when the answer, the other side stopped for a minute, only a faint cry, as if just cried.
陈楠没有反复喊“喂”来确认，试着用温柔的语调去安抚对方，提醒她“不要用手去揉眼睛”。
Instead of repeatedly yelling "hello" to confirm, try to soothe her in a gentle voice, reminding her not to rub her eyes with her hands.
对方哭了好几分钟，陈楠一直耐心地陪着她，“疫情来临时，人的孤独感会很强烈，更需要和他人产生联接，这时候的倾听和陪伴就非常重要”。
The other side cried for a few minutes, Chen Nan has been patient with her, "When the epidemic comes, people will feel very lonely, more need to connect with others, this time listening and accompanying is very important.
这位咨询者是一名驰援武汉的护士，尽管在年初一出发的时候，她已经做好了心理准备，但是超高的工作强度以及压抑的环境，远超出预料，让她濒临崩溃，时常有一种窒息感。
The counselor was a nurse who helped Wuhan, and although she was mentally prepared for her departure on the first day of the new year, the intensity of her work and the stressful environment, far beyond her expectations, brought her to the brink of collapse and often felt suffocated.
“很多人以为，医护人员看惯了生死离别，内心麻木了，也就不会再被同情心和情绪所困扰，这其实是一种误解。
"It is a misconception that many doctors and nurses are used to seeing life and death, are so numb that they are no longer obsessed with compassion and emotion.
”难得有了片刻休憩，这位护士却辗转难眠，她想念着自己5岁的孩子。
Rarely able to rest for a moment, the nurse tossed and turned, thinking of her 5-year-old child.
离家之前，她哄骗孩子说，自己要出一趟远门，很快就会回来，嘱咐他要乖，要听爸爸的话。
Before she left home, she coaxed the child into telling him that she was going away for a long trip, and would soon come back, telling him to be good and listen to her father.
孩子拉着她的手，嘱咐她要快点回来。
The child took her by the hand and told her to come back soon.
可是这样一想，心里那道阀门猛然转开，泪水决堤了，她生怕影响到其他人，就孤身跑出楼外，痛哭了一场。
But this thought, the heart of that valve suddenly turned away, tears burst the levee, she was afraid to affect others, ran out alone, crying.
听完护士的倾诉，陈楠用她自己的话复述了一遍，好让咨询者感到自己是“被理解和被关怀的”。
After listening to the nurse, Chen Nan repeated it in her own words so that the counselor felt "understood and cared for."
接下来，她又让对方尝试着做起“认知调整”， 疏通负面情绪，并为长期的疫情做好心理准备。
Next, she asked her partner to try to make "cognitive adjustments," unwind negative emotions and prepare for a long-term epidemic.
最后，电话那头的人深吸了一口气，语气也终于变得平和起来。
At last the man on the other end of the line took a deep breath and his voice became calm.
“这些咨询者陷在疫情风暴中，他们的生理和心理都受到重压，一直在应激状态中，会有耗竭感，变得绝望和无助，他们需要休息，也需要被关怀”。
"The counselors are trapped in an epidemic of stress, both physically and psychologically, constantly stressed, exhausted, desperate and helpless, and in need of rest and care."
“一线的医护人员全天都是分秒必抢，如果产生了心理危机，他们真的能抽出时间寻求援助吗？”这是陈楠自己对自己抛出的问题。
"The front-line health care workers are fighting every second of the day, and if there is a psychological crisis, can they really find the time to seek help?" Chen Nan himself asked.
在新闻里，穿着防护服的医生疲乏得只能就地躺下，一名急救人员把头倚在救护车厢，闭眼歇几分钟，“他们的工作强度很大，平常会抓紧机会休息，有时候希望他们在遭遇危机时，能抽出一小部分时间留给自己，但是这做起来非常困难”。
In the news, doctors in protective clothing are too tired to lie on the ground, an emergency worker leans on the ambulance and shuts his eyes for a few minutes. "Their work is so intense that they usually seize the opportunity to rest, sometimes hoping they can set aside a little time for themselves in times of crisis.
在陈楠目前援助的医护人员中，普遍都有睡眠不足的困扰，大部分出现了愤怒、麻木、悲伤、抑郁、自责和心理疲劳这些表现。
Chen Nan currently assists the health-care personnel, generally have insufficient sleep, most of the anger, numbness, sadness, depression, self-blame and psychological fatigue.
面对救治无效时，他们常会觉得自己没有价值，同时家庭方面也在无形中对自身造成了巨大的压力。
In the face of ineffective treatment, they often feel that they have no value, and at the same time the family in the invisible to their own great pressure.
而陈楠当前的目标，已不仅是为求助者提供心理疏导了，而是在一线施救者时间紧张的情况下，指导他们学会心理自助——譬如2013年世界卫生组织发布过《现场工作者心理急救指南》（1），“这本指南放到7年后的今天，对大多数医务工作者来说，还是一份很好的指导建议”。
Chen Nan's current goal is not only to provide psychological counseling for clients, but also to guide first-line responders to psychological self-help - for example, in 2013, the World Health Organization issued a Guide to Psychosocial First Aid for Field Workers (1), "a good guide for most health workers seven years later."
还有这张SQR-20心理健康自评问卷，也可以用来先做一番自我筛查，“群里的朋友把这张自测表做成了小程序，题目做起来很快，最多只要两三分钟的时间”。
There is also this SQR-20 mental health self-assessment questionnaire, which can also be used for self-screening. "Friends of the group made this self-test form into a small program, and the questions were done quickly, in two or three minutes at the most."
| 世卫组织心理健康测评问卷（受访者供图）志愿者所接触的咨询者中，绝大部分还是受到疫情影响的普通群众。
The vast majority of those consulted by WHO's Mental Health Questionnaire volunteers were ordinary people affected by the epidemic.
“这是让人理解的。
"" That's understandable.
虽然在国家卫健委发布的《心理干预指导原则》里，普通群众被划到第四级人群，但这个人群的基数更大，不应该被忽视。
Although in the Guidelines for Psychological Intervention issued by the National Board of Health, the general public is classified in the fourth category, this group has a larger base and should not be overlooked.
”比如，一位咨询者曾对陈楠坦言：“这次疫情把我的强迫症加重了。
One counselor, for example, confided to Chen Nan: "The epidemic has made my compulsive disorder worse.
”在疫情爆发之前的几个月，这位咨询者在精神卫生医院被确诊患有强迫症。
In the months before the outbreak, the counselor was diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder at a mental health hospital.
在当前严峻的肺炎疫情下，这位咨询者认为自己有十分严重的“恐冠”，担忧自己不慎感染上新冠病毒，于是做出了一系列看似荒诞的强迫行为——春节期间，他发现自己洗手的次数变多了，从原来的一两遍增加到了六七遍。
In the face of a severe pneumonia epidemic, the consultant, concerned about his own apparent inability to catch the new crown virus, made what appeared to be a series of grotesque acts of compulsion as he found himself washing his hands more frequently, from once or twice to six or seven times.
直到后来，他把自己的整双手搓得通红，擦干后，再用酒精喷雾反复喷涂。
Until then, he rubbed his whole hands red, wiped them dry, and then sprayed them repeatedly with alcohol spray.
出门倒垃圾时，他戴了3只口罩。
He wore three masks when he went out to take out the rubbish.
调整鼻夹的位置时，当大拇指外侧碰触到脸颊，他瞬间就被恐惧和焦虑控制住，怀疑拇指上有残留的病毒。
As he adjusted the position of his nose clip, when the outside of his thumb touched his cheek, he was momentarily under the control of fear and anxiety, suspecting that there was a virus left on his thumb.
回家后，他惊慌地埋在洗手台里面，用清水一遍遍冲刷着脸庞，接着用镊子夹住酒精棉球，使劲搓着他刚才碰到的地方。
When he got home, he was dismayed and buried in the sink, flushing his face with water, then grabbing the alcohol with tweezers and rubbing the place he had just hit.
在陈楠看来，这种强迫行为，某种程度上其实是缓解内在的焦虑。
In Chen Nan's view, this compulsion, to some extent, is to ease the inner anxiety.
也正因为如此，强迫行为具有高度的成瘾性。
It is also for this reason that coercion is highly addictive.
而当前的疫情对于这种有“精神癌症”之称的疾病来说，无疑是一种打击，它让咨询者感到“异常痛苦”。
The current outbreak is a blow to the so-called "mental cancer" disease, which causes "extraordinary pain" to the counselor.
因为这位患者的家人根本无法理解他的行为，只告诉他“不要多想”。
The patient's family simply could not understand his behavior and told him not to think about it any more.
在疏导方面，陈楠引导这位咨询者采用“认知行为疗法”，用正面的想法去替代原先的想法，在强迫的想法偷袭时，提醒自己这是错误的念头，也可以尝试着转移注意力。
Chennan led the counselor to "cognitive behavioral therapy," substituting positive thoughts for original ones, reminding himself of the wrong idea when a compulsive thought strikes, and trying to divert attention.
比如，向自己描述眼前的事物，或者做一些别的事情。
For example, describe to yourself what is in front of you, or do something else.
此外，陈楠还嘱咐咨询者要坚持服用先前配的药物。
In addition, Chen Nan also instructed the consultant to insist on taking previously prescribed drugs.
“想法在大脑里可以不断生成，这一点比病毒还要强大。
"Ideas can be generated in the brain more powerfully than viruses.
我反复跟他强调，‘无物常驻，万物皆流’，强迫观念来临的时候，让它自然走过去，还可以用正念呼吸法，专注在自己的呼吸上，试着把呼吸的速度放缓，还可以采用肌肉放松法，感受肌肉紧张之后，瞬间放松的那种温暖舒畅的感觉，适合舒缓身心，也适合容易焦虑的人群。
I have repeatedly stressed to him, 'Nothing stays where you are, everything flows', let it go naturally when it comes, focus on your breathing with mindfulness, try to slow down your breathing, and use muscle relaxation techniques to feel the warmth and comfort of a tense muscle.
”同时，在这个第四级人群中，有三类人群的心理问题也非常急迫，分别是老人、孕妇和儿童，即便咨询任务重，陈楠也会优先施助。
At the same time, there are three groups of people in this fourth group who have urgent psychological problems: the elderly, pregnant women and children.
2月3日的深夜，一位咨询者向她求助，是代自己的父亲咨询的。
Late in the evening of 3 February, a counselor approached her for help, consulting on behalf of her father.
老人今年73岁，平常爱去附近的广场遛弯，或者坐在一棵古树下吹奏黑笛。
The 73-year-old usually takes a stroll in a nearby square or sits under an old tree playing the black flute.
现在爆发的疫情打破了这段安详的时光，老人整天把自己关在屋里，对着窗户发呆。
Now the outbreak of the outbreak of this serene time, the old man locked himself in the room all day, staring at the window in a daze.
最初，孩子并未在意，以为父亲是“响应国家号召”，把自己关在家中，只不过有点儿无聊而已。
At first, the children did not care that their father was "responding to the call of the country" and locked himself up at home, only a little boring.
后来他察觉到父亲经常闷闷不乐，变得不爱说话，突然想到母亲是在2003年的春天去世的。
Then he became aware that his father was often unhappy and that he was not talkative. It occurred to him that his mother had died in the spring of 2003.
尽管母亲并非SARS患者，但现在危急的外部环境，还是不免让老人触景伤情。
Although the mother is not SARS sufferer, but now the critical external environment, the elderly people can not help touching the situation.
晚饭时，孩子细细追问父亲，果真如此。
Dinner, the child asked his father carefully, and so it was.
前一天晚上的深夜，老人打开灯，拿出了他和亡妻在动荡时期的旧相片，用干净的白布擦了一遍又一遍。
Late the night before, the old man turned on the light, took out old photographs of him and his wife during the turbulent period, and wiped them over and over with a clean white cloth.
他的这种抑郁的状态已经持续了将近一周。
His depression has lasted for nearly a week.
由于老人的听力不太好，咨询者充当着“二传手”，在老人和陈楠之间传递关键信息，“我跟咨询者建议，让老人在家中做一点别的事情，吹一吹笛子，也可以让老人把过去的故事倾吐，倾吐本身就是一种很好的疗愈。
Since the old man's hearing was not so good, the counselor acted as a "second responder," conveying the key message between the old man and Chen Nan. "I suggested to the counselor that the old man do something else at home and play the flute.
同时也劝他没事要多跟老人讲话，家人的陪伴是最好的心理支持。
At the same time, he also advised him to talk to the elderly, family's company is the best psychological support.
”与此同时，陈楠对居家隔离的人群也给出了她的建议。
Chen Nan, meanwhile, gave her advice to people who were isolated at home.
非典时期，台湾“心理健康行动联盟”编写的《SARS安心手册》（2）非常适用于调适自身的心理状态，例如：罗列一些能让自己快乐的事情，做成“To do”清单来逐步实行；每天接收新闻信息的时长控制在1小时以内，避免信息过载，造成不必要的恐慌。
The SARS Alert Manual (2), written by Taiwan's Mental Health Action Alliance, is well suited to adapt to one's mental state. For example, make a list of things you can do to make yourself happy.
那天，陈楠给我说，1月底，陈楠的父亲阳台边上，常听见其他居民在集体合唱。
That day, Chen Nan told me that at the end of January, Chen Nan's father's balcony, often heard other residents in the collective chorus.
仔细一听，是《我和我的祖国》。
Listen carefully. It's Me and My Motherland.
当父亲听到那句“一刻也不能分割”，霎时就忍不住，眼睛一下变花了，泪水为他洗了把脸。
When the father heard the phrase "no one can divide for a moment," the moment could not help but, eyes changed, tears washed his face for him.
如果不是母亲怕他被感染，拼命阻拦，父亲实在想加入到“阳台大合唱”的队伍里，把封城隔离后的惊恐和憋闷，痛快地宣泄出来。
Had it not been for the mother's fear of his infection and her desperate attempts to stop him, my father would have liked to join in the "balcony chorus" and let out the horror and suffocation of the isolation of the city.
“老特变得好感性。
"Old Tate has become good sensual.
”陈楠笑着和母亲调侃，把母亲逗笑了。
Chen Nan laughed at her mother and made her laugh.
可电话这一头，陈楠自己的眼睛也泛起了泪花。
But at the other end of the line, Chen Nan's own eyes had grown tearful.
后记“有一次在咨询的尾声，一位咨询者告诉我，居家隔离的几天，在电视屏幕里看到的每个人，他都想去拥抱。
The postscript "At the end of a consultation, a counselor told me that every person he saw on a TV screen for a few days at home wanted to hug.
”陈楠说，这句话对她的触动很大。
'Chen Nan said,' It touched her a lot.
心理援助就是修通情感的断桥，帮助对方挣脱出心理危机的黑色漩涡。
Psychological assistance is to repair the emotional bridge to help each other break out of the psychological crisis of the black vortex.
那些看不见光的幽暗时刻，人们不再是“抑郁和哀悼”，于彼此的扶助中擦出温热的火光。
Those dim moments when the light is not visible are no longer "sad and mournful," wiping out the warm glow of each other's assistance.
时至今日，陈楠依然有着执念：总有一天她会回家，和亲人们拥抱、“过早”。
To this day, Chen Nan still insists that one day she will go home and hug her relatives, "too early."
（受访者为化名）编者注：（1）世界卫生组织，2013年，《现场工作心理急救指南》，https://www.who.int/mental_health/publications/guide_field_workers/zh/（2）简单心理，2020年1月22日，《肺炎恐慌下，如何保护自己和家人？》https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/b_Ce-2jpG3Wt6DpIYNdMDA编辑| 沈燕妮点击联系人间编辑黑 特法律像人性的低保，是一种强制性的修养。
http: / / www.who.int / mental _ health / publications / guide _ field _ workers / en / (2) Simple Psychology < http: / / www.mp.weixin.qq.com / s / b _ Ce-2jpG3Wt6DpIYNdmda Edit & # 42; On January 22, 2020.
本文系网易新闻人间工作室独家约稿，并享有独家版权。
This article department Netease news world atelier exclusive contract, and enjoys the exclusive copyright.
如需转载请在后台回复【转载】。
If you need to reproduce, please reply in the background.
投稿给“人间-非虚构”写作平台，可致信：thelivings@vip.163.com，稿件一经刊用，将根据文章质量，提供千字500元-1000元的稿酬。
Written on a "human-non-fiction" writing platform, you can write to themings @ vip.163.com, which, once printed, will pay you between $500 and $1,000, depending on the quality of the article.
投稿文章需保证内容及全部内容信息（包括但不限于人物关系、事件经过、细节发展等所有元素）的真实性，保证作品不存在任何虚构内容。
The article should guarantee the authenticity of the content and information (including, but not limited to, all elements of relationships, events, details, etc.), and ensure that there is no fictional content in the work.
其它合作、建议、故事线索，欢迎于微信后台（或邮件）联系我们。
Other cooperation, suggestions, story clues, welcome to micro-mail backstage (or email) contact us.
点击以下「关键词」，查看往期内容：群聊魔鬼|月嫂回忆录|家暴|健身房的坑|生子丸考公|萌宠博主|82年的金智英|女大学生的毒虫男友大牛失业|卧底狱警|娶妻改命|中年男人的窝囊死亡职校老师|产科记事|改嫁|寻业中国|三大队|股市梦碎扶弟魔|末路狂花|下乡扶贫|外卖小哥|杀死我的女神吃不上药的人|黑在日本|再见警长丨穷人不配当公务员离休干部病房|控制狂父母|无征兆灭门案丨提款机女婿东北相亲|我放弃了科研|网红女同学|与巨婴离婚的女人。
Bye-bye Police chiefs unworthy of being a civil servant at Rest & # 44; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
一线心理防疫师：我想拥抱每一个正经历痛苦的人丨人间。
First-line psychopathologist: I want to embrace everyone who is experiencing pain.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "人间theLivings";。
var nickname = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
var msg_title = "一线心理防疫师：我想拥抱每一个正经历痛苦的人丨人间";。
var msg _ title = & quot; first-line psychopathologist: I want to hug everyone who's experiencing pain.
var msg_desc = "我们总有一天会回家，和亲人们拥抱、过早。
var msg _ desc = & quot; We'll be home one day, hugging our loved ones, too soon.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '找到人间编辑的若干种方法',。
AT & apos; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '群聊里的魔鬼，抓走了三个女童丨人间',。
The devil in the group conversation took three girls into service.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '钱宝网已死，朋友说有事烧纸 | 人间',。
At the time of its death a friend says it has AT least & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '职场里的中年人：技术大牛失业了丨人间 · 寻业中国',。
Middle-aged at work: Technology Daniel is unemployed. China & amp; apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & #
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '我教的，全是上不了高中的职校生丨人间·寻业中国',。
What I taught was nothing but a vocational college student who couldn't attend high school.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '请转告局长，三大队任务完成了丨人间',。
Please tell the director that the triad completed its service to & quot; & quot; & apos;.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '爸，去工作吧，别再等牛市了丨人间',。
A: Dad, go to work. Don't wait for a bull market.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '这一年下乡扶贫，我算是长见识了丨人间·再见8',。
I saw it for a long time when I went to the countryside to fight poverty.
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '吃不上药的人丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
title: '一场毫无征兆的灭门之祸丨人间',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '人间theLivings',。
subject _ name: & apos; world the Lives & apos;.
var title ="人间theLivings";。
var title = & quot; at least & quot; at least & quot;
