武汉广发肿瘤医院被临时征用，家属口述癌症患者被强制出院后的遭遇/* declared */。
Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital was temporarily requisitioned, family oral cancer patients were forced out of the hospital after the treatment / * declared * /.
武汉广发肿瘤医院被临时征用，家属口述癌症患者被强制出院后的遭遇<br>。
Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital was temporarily requisitioned, and family members dictated AT & L's treatment of cancer patients after their forced discharge; br & gt;
| title       = 武汉广发肿瘤医院被临时征用，家属口述癌症患者被强制出院后的遭遇。
& # 114; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
武汉广发肿瘤医院被临时征用，家属口述癌症患者被强制出院后的遭遇。
Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital was temporarily requisitioned, family oral cancer patients were forced out of the hospital after the treatment.
霍思伊 杨智杰。
Hoss Yeung Chi-jay.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
对癌症晚期病人而言，“临时征用”的后果是被强制出院，没有药物，无法输液，只能回家刘军（化名）的家人是胃癌晚期患者，原本在武汉广发肿瘤专科医院接受临终照料。
For patients with advanced cancer, the consequences of "temporary requisition" is forced out of the hospital, no drugs, no infusion, can only go home Liu Jun (alias) family members are advanced gastric cancer patients, originally in Wuhan Guangfa tumor hospital received hospice care.
2月5日晚7：50，他们突然收到通知，医院临时被征用，全部病区都被用来收治发热的疑似新冠肺炎病人。
At 7.50 p.m. on February 5, they were suddenly informed that the hospital had been temporarily requisitioned and that all the wards had been used to treat febrile patients with pneumonia.
刘军的家人和其他至少15名癌症晚期病人，被全部要求强制出院。
Liu's family and at least 15 other terminally ill cancer patients were ordered to leave the hospital forcibly.
10分钟后，病人被停掉打了一半的营养液，从医院被抬了出去。
Ten minutes later, the patient was stopped and half-filled with nutrients and taken out of the hospital.
三天后，河南省周口市医疗队接管了这个二级专科医院。
Three days later, a medical team from Zhou Kou, Henan Province, took over the secondary specialized hospital.
事实上，这家医院并不在武汉市公布的五批新冠肺炎定点医院中，在官方的新闻报道里也写明是“临时征用”。
In fact, the hospital, which is not in Wuhan's five designated hospitals for pneumonia, is also listed in official news reports as "temporary requisition."
但对这些癌症晚期病人而言，“临时征用”的后果是，被强制出院，没有药物，无法输液，只能回家。
But for these advanced cancer patients, the consequences of "temporary expropriation" are forced out of the hospital, no medication, no infusion, only to return home.
上海市公共卫生临床咨询专家缪晓辉告诉《中国新闻周刊》，现在一些医院人手不够，医生害怕，病人也不敢去医院。
Some hospitals are understaffed, doctors are afraid and patients are afraid to go to hospitals, Shanghai public health consultant Miao Xiaohui told China News Weekly.
但是像糖尿病、高血压、冠心病等慢性病和恶性肿瘤患者，接受复查和有效的治疗是很迫切的问题，政府要考虑如何让这些病人看得上病。
But for patients with chronic diseases and malignant tumours, such as diabetes, hypertension, coronary heart disease, review and effective treatment are pressing issues, and the Government needs to consider how to treat these patients.
随着疫情的发展，他担心慢性病患者将迎来更大的困难。
As the epidemic unfolds, he worries that chronic-disease sufferers will face even greater difficulties.
以下是刘军的口述。
The following is Liujun's dictation.
在这个非常时期，抗击新冠疫情的呼声铺天盖地，而这些普通慢性病人及其家属的呼声则少有人听到：我的亲人今年59岁，患晚期胃癌，四年前切除了全胃，去年年底复发。
In these exceptional times, the clamour to fight the new crown is overwhelming, and the voices of the chronically ill and their families are rarely heard: My loved ones are 59 years old, have terminal stomach cancer, had a full stomach resection four years ago and had a relapse at the end of last year.
她还有严重的肠梗阻，因为胃切除以后，只能靠肠道进食，所以肠梗阻后，身体就开始出现明显的恶化，去年12月已经无法吞咽任何东西，只要吃进去，就会吐出来。
She also suffered from severe intestinal obstruction, as she had to rely on the intestinal tract for food after a gastrectomy. As a result, her body began to deteriorate significantly after intestinal obstruction. She was unable to swallow anything last December and would vomit it if she ate it.
医生经过多方尝试，觉得化疗对她已经没有任何作用，其他治疗也没必要了。
After many attempts, the doctor felt that chemotherapy had done nothing for her and that no other treatment was necessary.
但她无法进食，我们也没办法在家看护，于是经过多方打听后，找到了武汉广发肿瘤专科医院。
But she can not eat, we can not care at home, so after many inquiries, found Wuhan Guangfa tumor specialist hospital.
这是一家二级肿瘤专科医院，也是武汉市的肿瘤重症门诊定点医院，以肿瘤科为主，主要收治一些重症肿瘤病人，并提供专门的临终照料服务。
This is a secondary specialized oncology hospital, which is also the Wuhan city oncology out-patient out-patient service, mainly oncology, mainly to treat a number of severe cancer patients, and provide specialized hospice care services.
因为一般医院对于这类没必要进一步治疗的病人，一般都是劝退，所以我们找了一圈，发现这家医院是当时可以找到的条件比较好的，每个病人都是单间，所以1月17日我们就把她送住院了。
Because the general hospital for this kind of patients do not need further treatment, we are generally advised to retreat, we found that the hospital is available at the conditions are better, each patient is a single room, so January 17 we sent her to the hospital.
武汉1月23日封城，一开始对我们没有太大的影响，因为这家医院的性质是肿瘤专科，所以封城后就没有再接收新的病人了，只留下危重病人。
Wuhan closed the city on January 23, at first we did not have much impact, because the nature of the hospital is tumor specialty, so no new patients after the closure of the city, leaving only the critically ill.
整个医院基本处于半封闭状态，所有的进出都有管制，只让家属能进，每次我们也都会戴口罩。
The hospital is basically semi-enclosed, with all access restricted to family members, and we wear masks every time.
2月2日，我们突然接到医院的通知，这家医院可能会被征用来接收发热病人，要把我们所在的整栋楼腾出来，原本的病人全部搬到另一栋新楼里去。
On February 2, we were suddenly informed by the hospital that it might be requisitioned to receive febrile patients, vacate our entire building and move all of our patients to a new building.
于是从这天开始，所有的医护人员和病人都开始做转病房的工作，医护人员也很辛苦，24小时不休息。
From this day on, all the medical staff and patients began to do the work of the transfer ward, health care workers are also very hard, 24-hour non-rest.
到了2月5日晚6点左右，我们过去送东西，正好碰到医生急急忙忙跑出来，说刚刚收到通知，马上就要搬，两三个小时之内发热病人就要全部住进来。
On the evening of the 5th of February, at about six o'clock in the evening, we went to deliver, and the doctor came running out in a great hurry, saying that he had just received his notice, and that in two or three hours all the feverish patients would be in.
然后所有的病人家属都被紧急叫到了医院，我们和其他家属一样，开始忙手忙脚地把东西搬到另一栋楼的新病区去。
Then all the patients' families were rushed to the hospital, and we, like the rest of the family, began moving things around to the new sick area of another building.
到了新病区后，刚整理好房间还没到5分钟，护士长接了一个电话，她当时自己就崩溃了，说上级接到通知，要求我们所有病人马上离开医院，全部回家，整个医院全被征用了, 这是晚上7点50左右。
Just five minutes after the new ward arrived, the head nurse answered the phone and said that she had been told by her superiors to leave the hospital immediately and return home. The whole hospital had been requisitioned, around 7.50 p.m.
当时很混乱，很多病人还没有搬好。
It was a mess and many patients had not moved.
像我家亲人这样的接受临终关怀的病人，大概有15个人，基本上都是中老年人。
Some 15 people, mostly middle-aged and elderly, are in hospice care, like my family.
刚接到通知的时候，所有人都是蒙的，很多人比较恐惧，不知道那些发热病人什么时候就会过来，因为通知说马上就会过来。
At first notice, everyone was blindfolded, and many people were frightened not to know when the feverish patients would arrive, as the notice said they would be there soon.
我们当时的第一反应就是，下一步怎么办。
Our first reaction was to figure out what to do next.
这些病人全都是临终关怀的病人，没有其他治疗手段，只是每天输营养液，维持基本的生存，米水都进不了。
These patients are all hospice patients, no other treatment, just daily nutrient transfusion, maintain basic survival, rice water can not enter.
所以离开医院后，只要停止输液，自己没有任何手段去救治，回家只能等死。
So leave the hospital, as long as stop infusion, oneself have no means to cure, return home can only wait to die.
当时，包括我们在内，很多病人都提出后续治疗的问题，但对于后续如何治疗，在家里怎么护理，应该怎样让病人减轻痛苦，当时哪怕只是口头上的一个交代都没有。
At the time, many patients, including us, raised the issue of follow-up care, but there was not even a verbal explanation of how to treat, how to care at home, and how to relieve the pain.
我问，能不能至少提供一些药品，也没有。
I asked if it would be possible to provide at least some medicine, but no.
我看得出来，那些医生护士其实也很想帮忙，但他们真的没有办法，他们自己也很崩溃，因为对于会接收发热病人，他们也没有任何心理准备,也没有什么防护设施。
I can see that the doctors and nurses really wanted to help, but they really couldn't do anything about it. They themselves collapsed because they were not prepared to accept the febrile patients and had little protection.
作为专科医院，此前也从没接待过发热病人。
As a specialist hospital, I had never received a fever patient before.
在武汉的疫情变得严重后，这些医护也只是戴了口罩，搬病房的时候，只有少数工作人员穿防护服，但也比较简陋。
When the epidemic in Wuhan became severe, the doctors and nurses wore masks, and only a few of the staff wore protective clothing when they moved in, but they were also rudimentary.
后来，我们是第一个决定走的，当时营养液还没打完，输液当场停掉，就把病人抬走了，离开医院的时候是晚上八点。
Later, we were the first to decide to go, before the nutrient solution was finished, the infusion stopped immediately, the patient was carried away, leaving the hospital at 8 p.m.
因为我们不想让老人再折腾，也不想当着她的面吵闹。
Because we don't want the old man to toss around or make any noise in front of her.
而且当时有医护人员和我们说，医院马上就要全部封闭，如果现在不走，一会发热病人来了，谁都走不了。
And then there were paramedics and we said that the hospital was going to be completely closed, and if we don't leave now, a feverish patient will come and no one will be able to leave.
我们走的时候其他病人还在和医院交涉，据我所知，后来这些人都还是被强制要求搬了出来。
When we left, the other patients were still talking to the hospital and, to my knowledge, they were forced to move out.
我了解到，后来整个肿瘤医院被河南省周口市的一个医疗队整体接管，所以我想再联系之前的医生和护士，都联系不上。
I learned that the entire oncology hospital was taken over by a medical team in Zhou Kou City, Henan Province, so I wanted to contact my former doctors and nurses again.
我看了新闻报道，发现周口医疗队是2月8日上午进入武汉广发肿瘤医院的，也就是我们被强制出院之后的第三天。
I read the news report and found that Zhou Kou Medical Team entered Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital on the morning of Feb. 8, the third day after we were forcibly discharged from the hospital.
被迫离开医院后，我就开始想办法。
After I was forced to leave the hospital, I began to think of something.
先通过在武汉协和医院的朋友打听到，协和所有病区都满了，而且现在他们的医护人员有限，像我们这种没太多治疗必要的病人，无暇顾及。
First through friends at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, we learned that all the areas of Concorde were full, and now they had limited medical staff, so we didn't have the time to treat the necessary patients.
后来我又去咨询解放军161医院，他们说，现在武汉医院针对任何病人，都要先排除病人的新冠病毒疑似，比如看胸片、抽血看白细胞、是否有发热症状等，排除后才可能接收，前提是他们有床位。
I then went to the PLA 161 Hospital, where they said Wuhan hospitals now rule out any patients suspected of having a new crown virus, such as chest X-rays, blood samples to see white blood cells, fever symptoms, etc., before they can be admitted if they have beds.
161医院的肿瘤科已经关停了，也没有病床，接收不了。
The oncology unit of the hospital has been closed and there are no beds to receive.
前几天，我联系到蔡甸区人民医院，对方说可以接收，但他们那里也有发热病人，如果我们愿意的话，可以让我们住院。
A few days ago, I contacted the People's Hospital in Cai Den. The other side said it was acceptable, but they also had febrile patients there. We could be hospitalized if we wanted.
因为蔡甸医院在武汉封城的范围之外，目前我们还没开到路条，所以也过不去。
Because Cai Den hospital in Wuhan closed the scope of the city, at present we have not reached the road, so also can not cross.
封路的人员告诉我们，要去找社区办的人解决这个问题。
The people who sealed the road told us to go to the community office to solve the problem.
我还联系了两家私立医院，专门提供临终关怀服务的，但他们都说虽然有床位，但不再收治新病人。
I also contacted two private hospitals that specialise in hospice care, but both said they no longer admitted new patients, although beds were available.
后来，我通过一些朋友了解到，癌症晚期的病人求治无门的情况，在武汉很普遍。
Later, I learned through a number of friends, cancer terminal patients seeking treatment no access to the situation is very common in Wuhan.
我朋友的家人在河北，已经因为类似的情况去世了。
My friend's family is in Hebei province and has passed away in a similar situation.
住院如果实在不行，我们想能不能自己想办法获得一些营养液或找医生上门注射。
If hospitalization is not possible, we want to find our own way to get some nutrient solution or to find a doctor home injection.
但是后来发现，像营养液、镇定、麻醉、止痛类药剂，都是医院的管制类药物，只有住院后医生才能开。
But later it turned out that drugs such as nutrient solutions, tranquilizers, anaesthesia and pain relievers were all controlled drugs in hospitals that doctors could prescribe only after hospitalization.
现在，即使能开到这类药品，在无法住院的情况下，让护士上门注射也很难。
Now, even when such drugs are available, it is difficult to get a nurse to give them in when they cannot be hospitalized.
因为出过几起医疗纠纷，武汉在2019年就把所有的“医护上门”服务给停了，各大医院都严禁医生私自去住户家里，包括护士的护理也全部叫停了。
After several medical disputes, Wuhan stopped all "in-patient" services in 2019, and doctors were banned from visiting their homes, including nurses.
但现在毕竟是特殊情况，希望医院考虑到我们这种病人，能够找到一个比较可行的方案。
But after all, this is a special case, and I hope that the hospital will be able to find a more viable solution, taking into account patients like us.
我的亲人回家以后，离开了营养液，身体更加虚弱，体内不断出现新的炎症，也没有任何抗炎症的药物，病人越来越痛苦，一直喊疼，每时每刻都在呻吟，神智渐渐开始变得不清醒，只有本能反应，大声喊疼或发脾气。
When my loved ones returned home, they left the nutrient solution, their bodies grew weaker, there was no new inflammation in their bodies, there were no anti-inflammatory drugs, the patients became more and more painful, they kept shouting and moaning, and their minds gradually began to become unconsciousness, only instinctive reactions, shouting for pain or losing their temper.
现在，她叫的频率和次数已经越来越少，因为越来越虚弱。
Now, the frequency and frequency of her barks has become less and less, as she grows weaker.
从2月5日晚上到现在，她完全没有进食，没睡过一觉。
From the night of 5 February until now, she had not eaten at all and had not slept a single night.
我们看着特别揪心，很难受。
We looked very worried, very sad.
如果能够有任何办法，让亲人哪怕减轻一天或半天的痛苦，我们都会觉得心里稍微安慰一点点。
If there is anything we can do to ease the pain of even a day or half a day, we feel a little comforted.
但无论如何，我们是不会放弃的。
But no matter what, we won't give up.
(2月13日，就在刘军接受《中国新闻周刊》采访后不久，记者获悉，他的家人已经去世。
(On February 13, shortly after Liu Jun gave an interview with China News Weekly, reporters learned that his family had died.
他在回复中称：衷心希望你们的报道可以帮助到更多的家庭和人！)（此文独家供稿腾讯平台，未经授权，不得转载）值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼武汉之战：一场史无前例的超级行动 图片故事| 方舱医院 湖北、武汉一把手同时调整，释放了什么信号 。
We sincerely hope that your report will help more families and people.http: / / www.youtheme.cn / We sincerely hope that your report will help more families and people.http: / / www.youtheme.cn / We hope your report will help more families and people.http: / / www.youtheme.cn
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉广发肿瘤医院被临时征用，家属口述癌症患者被强制出院后的遭遇。
Wuhan Guangfa Cancer Hospital was temporarily requisitioned, family oral cancer patients were forced out of the hospital after the treatment.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
