试剂盒供不应求，武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊之难。
There is a shortage of test kits, Wuhan new coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis is difficult.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
根据国家卫健委的通报，截至1月23日零点，共统计到国内新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎确诊病例571例，其中超过400例来自湖北。
As of 0 pm on January 23, 571 cases of pneumonia confirmed to be infected with the new coronavirus in China had been recorded, including more than 400 cases from Hubei, the National Health Commission said.
死亡17例，均来自湖北。
Seventeen of the deaths occurred in Hubei province.
此刻的武汉面临以下问题：试剂盒数量不够、确诊艰难、床位短缺、高度疑似患者仍在自由流动。
Wuhan now faces the following problems: insufficient number of test kits, difficult diagnosis, shortage of beds, highly suspected patients are still free to move.
文｜罗婷编辑｜糖槭试剂盒：压力较大22日夜里，武汉一家上市公司公布了自己当日的疫情报告文件，披露了一位员工的遭遇——这天白天，员工张鑫和自己的父亲都被推断为病毒性肺炎，但被光谷同济医院拒收：「光谷同济（医院）回复：没有试剂盒，不能确诊也不能收治。
less than ten percent less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + reported + + + + pressure + + + + + reported + that + + + + reported + that + +
需要病人自行前往同济总部，也无法告知总部流程。
Patients were required to travel to Tongji headquarters on their own and were unable to inform Headquarters processes.
该员工目前返回家中，未得到救治。
The employee is currently returning to his home without treatment.
」因为试剂盒缺乏，不能被确诊和收治，武汉的患者们处境艰难。
Wuhan patients are in a difficult situation because of the lack of test kits to diagnose and treat them.
不只是光谷同济医院，在同济医院本部、武汉市第一医院、第六医院、武汉红十字会医院、武汉肺科医院等武汉指定的收治医院或发热门诊，都出现了类似的情况。
Not only Guanggu Tongji Hospital, but also in Wuhan designated hospitals such as Tongji Hospital Headquarters, Wuhan First Hospital, Sixth Hospital, Wuhan Red Cross Hospital, Wuhan Lung Hospital and so on, a similar situation has occurred.
有幸用上试剂盒的患者，被其他患者称为「中了彩票」。
Patients lucky enough to use the kit were referred to by other patients as "winning the lottery."
在环武汉地区，试剂盒也相当短缺。
There is also a considerable shortage of test kits around Wuhan.
国家卫健委在1月19日便发布通报称：「已下发新型冠状病毒核酸检测试剂盒，要求各地加强检测。
"A new coronavirus nucleic acid test kit has been issued, requiring local authorities to step up testing," the National Health Commission (NIH) announced on January 19.
」但据《人物》了解，在22号下午，湖北某地级市一家此次病毒性肺炎的定点收治医院才拿到第一批试剂盒，且数量很少，「不到医院想要检查的人数的十分之一。
But according to People, on the afternoon of February 22, the first batch of kits arrived at a designated hospital for viral pneumonia in a local city in Hubei province, and the quantities were small, "less than one in ten people wanted to be examined by the hospital.
」黄冈一家医院也是在22号才刚刚拿到试剂盒。
A hospital in Huanggang had just got its kit on the 22nd.
另据湖北咸宁一家医院的医护人员介绍，他们至今还未拿到试剂盒。
According to the medical staff of a hospital in Xianning, Hubei Province, they have not yet received the kit.
在此之前，12月26日，上海市公共卫生临床中心收集到来自武汉市的一份患者标本。
Earlier, on December 26, the Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center collected a specimen of a patient from Wuhan.
十天后便从标本中检测出类SARS冠状病毒，获得了该病毒的全基因组序列。
Ten days later, the SARS coronavirus was detected from the specimen and the whole genome sequence of the virus was obtained.
用相当快的速度完成了分离病毒、测序等步骤，并迅速研发出测试试剂。
The steps of virus separation, sequencing and so on were accomplished with considerable speed, and the reagent was developed rapidly.
几天前也有媒体报道，目前测试剂已实现了主要城市24小时全覆盖，无需恐慌。
A few days ago it was reported in the press that the test agent had achieved full 24-hour coverage in major cities without panic.
但实际上，根据三家已通过国家疾控中心认证的企业披露的信息，试剂盒生产仍吃紧、产能仍不足。
In practice, however, according to information disclosed by three enterprises that have been certified by the CDC, the production of kits is still tight and capacity is still insufficient.
这三家公司分别为上海辉睿生物、上海捷诺生物和上海伯杰公司。
The three companies are Shanghai Pfizer, Shanghai Teno Biology and Shanghai Berger.
1月23日，《人物》记者分别拨打了这三家公司的电话，他们都处在相当的繁忙之中。
On January 23, People made separate calls to the three companies, all of which were in a fairly busy state.
上海捷诺生物的员工张智华说，生产试剂盒并没有外界说的那么容易，也没有那么快的速度，「从接到订单以来，我们一直都在加班加点。
Zhang Zhihua, an employee of Shanghai-based Teno Biology, said the kit wasn't as easy or fast as it was supposed to be. "We've been working overtime since we received the order.
」另一家公司辉睿生物的员工则在几天前接受采访时称，他们公司员工这些天来每天只睡两三个小时。
In an interview a few days ago, employees at another company, Pfizer, said their employees only slept two or three hours a day these days.
按照此前界面新闻的报道，辉睿已经向各地供应了五、六万人份的试剂盒，而捷诺在1月16日时就已生产了可供七万五千人份使用的试剂盒。
According to previous Interface News reports, Pfizer had supplied 50,000 to 60,000 kits to various locations, while Teno had already produced kits for 75,000 people by January 16.
二者加起来能测试十多万人。
Together, they can test more than 100,000 people.
但令人困惑的是，试剂盒至今仍供不应求。
Yet, paradoxically, the supply of test kits is still in short supply.
上海伯杰公司的一位员工说，这些天他们不断接到各地医院和疾控中心的电话，他们只能回复对方：保证全力生产、备货充足，努力保证能供应上。
An employee at Shanghai-based Berger said they have been receiving calls from hospitals and the CDC these days, and that they are responding by making sure they are producing at full capacity, are well stocked and are trying to keep supplies up.
接近年关，他们最大的压力来自于相关供应链上下游的公司已开始休假，「采购、运输压力较大」。
As they approach the end of the year, their biggest pressure comes from companies down and up the supply chain already taking leave, "procurement, transport pressure."
能检测新型冠状病毒的试剂图源梨视频试剂盒之后，仍旧漫长的确诊当试剂盒被运往各地，它们最先到达的地点会是各省市的疾控中心。
After testing the new coronavirus reagent map pear video kit, the diagnosis is still long when the kits were shipped everywhere, they will be the first place to arrive in the provincial and municipal CDC.
截至目前，疾控中心仍是控制试剂盒使用的最主要机构。
So far, the CDC is still the most important control kit used.
一位20多岁的武汉女性患者告诉《人物》，1月21日凌晨，她因为发烧，在当时武汉的三家指定收治医院之一的武汉肺科医院检查，她经历的排查过程是做血检、CT和核酸检测，花费近1800元。
Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital, one of Wuhan's three designated hospitals at the time, underwent a blood test, CT and nucleic acid test in the early morning hours of January 21 due to a fever, a 20-year-old woman told People.
医生确定她肺部感染，并一项一项帮她排除了流感、H7N9和感染其他病毒的可能，但就只能做到这个地步——因为没有试剂盒，无法查明这种感染是否由新型冠状病毒引起。
Doctors confirmed that she had a lung infection, and that one helped her rule out the flu, H7N9, and other viruses, but that was all she could do - because without the kit, it was impossible to determine whether the infection was caused by the new coronavirus.
当她问到是否能做试剂盒检查时，医生回复她：试剂盒「极其稀缺」，只有那些住院的、或是高度疑似的病例才会被送检。
When she asked if she could have the kit examined, the doctor replied that it was "extremely rare" and that only those cases that were hospitalized or highly suspected would be examined.
她这样病情较轻的患者，主要是在家治疗、复查，根据病情进展来决定后续治疗方式。
Her less serious patients, mainly home treatment, review, according to the progress of the disease to determine the way of follow-up treatment.
哪个医院能用试剂盒，能用多少，都需要申请和统筹。
Which hospital can use the kit, how much can be used, all need to apply and co-ordinate.
一位武汉疾控系统的知情人士告诉《人物》，检测过程主要由疾控中心来完成的。
A person familiar with Wuhan's disease control system told People that the testing process was carried out mainly by the CDC.
现在武汉各区疾控检验科派出所有人员，去各医院负责疑似病例的取样和送样，所有样本都统一送到湖北省疾控中心实验室做核酸检测，「不光是检测试剂数量有限，检测仪器和实验人员也都是在超负荷运转。
All samples are sent to the CDC laboratory in Hubei Province for nucleic acid testing. "Not only is the number of reagents limited, but so are the testing instruments and laboratory personnel.
」据《三联生活周刊》1月23日的报道，一位武汉的呼吸科医生说，最近两天检测的权力也下放到了三甲医院。
A Wuhan-based respiratory doctor said the right to be tested over the past two days has also been delegated to triple-A hospitals, according to the paper.
三甲医院确实有能力完成这种检测。
Triple A Hospital does have the capability to complete this test.
一位前RT-PCR诊断试剂盒生产商员工告诉《人物》，做核酸检测，需要专门的PCR实验室，但这种实验室要求并不高，设备不算复杂，再加上严格分区便可。
A former RT-PCR diagnostic kit manufacturer told PEOPLE that a specialized PCR laboratory was needed for nucleic acid testing, but the laboratory was not very demanding, the equipment was not too complex, and strict zoning would suffice.
「乙肝HBV、丙肝HCV、艾滋HIV都会用到PCR检测，所以理论上有这些检测手段的医院，都可以独立完成PCR检测。
"Hepatitis B HBV, HCV, and HIV are all tested by PCR, so in theory hospitals with these means can independently complete PCR testing.
」但由于三甲医院的人力物力有限，只能承担一部分，且考虑到新型冠状病毒被泄露的可能，目前检测的大头还是在湖北省疾控中心。
However, given the limited human and material resources of the hospital, only a portion of the total could be covered, and given the possibility of the new coronavirus being released, the majority of the tests are at the Hubei CDC.
经过试剂盒诊断后，确认过程仍漫长。
After the kit diagnosis, the confirmation process is still long.
黄冈是离武汉最近的城市之一，该市政府部门的一位人士透露，武汉周边县市对第一例病例的确诊（也就是「首诊」）相对谨慎。
Huanggang, one of the city's closest cities, said the county around Wuhan was relatively cautious about confirming the first case, or "first visit."
就算县里拿到了试剂盒，确认了结果为阳性，也不能公布，需要统一上报到湖北省，再做审核，再统一发布。
Even if the county got the test kit, confirmed that the results are positive, but also can not be published, need to be reported to Hubei Province, and then audit, and then issued a unified.
这也就能解释，为什么此前《财新》报道中称，黄冈市蕲春县县长在1月20日的全县病毒性肺炎防控大会上讲话时指出，当时黄冈市病毒性肺炎病例已达109例，但当时黄冈还未出现一例确诊患者——因为当时黄冈还没有试剂盒，就算有，黄冈当地也无权限确诊。
This explains why Agkistu Agkistrodon county magistrate of Huanggang City told the county-wide viral pneumonia control conference on January 20 that there had been 109 cases of viral pneumonia in Huanggang, but there had not been a single confirmed case in Huanggang at the time - because Huanggang did not have a kit, and even then Huanggang was not authorized to confirm it.
根据1月18日卫健委新修订的《全国各省（区、市）首例新型冠状病毒感染的肺炎病例确认程序》，对于武汉之外的其他省市，审核不仅要经过省一级，还要上报国家，并由专家小组评估，三轮都确认，才能确诊。
According to the newly revised "Procedure for the Confirmation of Pneumonia Cases of the New Coronavirus Infection in Provinces (Districts and Municipalities) of China" on January 18, the first confirmed cases of coronavirus infection in provinces and municipalities other than Wuhan must go through the provincial level and be reported to the state.
22日江苏公示的首位新性肺炎病例就是如此。
This was the first case of new pneumonia in Jiangsu province on May 22.
根据江苏省的通报，这位37岁男性患者，1月10日就被隔离治疗，标本由江苏省疾控中心实验室检测，呈新型冠状病毒核酸阳性，又经中国疾控中心复核，再之后是1月22日经专家组评估，最终确诊。
The 37-year-old male was quarantined on January 10 and tested for a new coronavirus-positive strain by the Jiangsu CDC laboratory, reviewed by the CDC and finally confirmed by the expert group on January 22, according to Jiangsu province reports.
从入院到确诊、公布，层层把关，时长长达12天。
From admission to diagnosis, publication, layers of guard, up to 12 days.
病人在发热门诊前输液图源央视新闻疑似患者还有多少？现在翻看许多武汉患者的病历，你大概率会发现一个词，「病毒性肺炎」，而非「新型冠状病毒肺炎」。
How many more patients are suspected to be suffering from infusion before the fever clinic? Looking at the medical records of many Wuhan patients, you will find a word, "viral pneumonia" instead of "new coronavirus pneumonia."
多位武汉患者告诉《人物》，他们在医院都被确诊为「病毒性肺炎」。
Wuhan patients told People that they were diagnosed with "viral pneumonia" at the hospital.
虽然能确定他们的肺部被病毒感染，但并不确定他们被哪种病毒感染，是不是被新型冠状病毒感染？有没有这种可能？有。
Although it is certain that their lungs were infected with the virus, it is not certain what kind of infection they were infected with. Is it the new coronavirus? Is that possible? Yes.
怎么做检测？难。
How to do detection? It's difficult.
32岁的患者黄子杰告诉《人物》，1月17号他开始有了感冒症状，发烧并浑身酸痛，往常吃阿莫西林很快见效，但这次烧了三四天，一直降不下去。
The 32-year-old patient, Huang Zijie, told People that on January 17 he began to develop cold symptoms, fever and aching muscles.
前几天他一直认为武汉肺炎态势平稳、乐观，直到20号听到钟南山讲话，报道转向、信息披露，才觉得事态严重，去医院检查。
A few days ago, he thought Wuhan pneumonia situation is stable, optimistic, until the 20th heard Zhong Nan Shan speech, the report turned, information disclosure, only to think push shoving serious, go to the hospital for examination.
21号他去武汉市第六医院看病，医院临时建起了发热门诊，建筑工人还在钉彩条布。
21, he went to Wuhan Sixth Hospital to see a doctor, the hospital set up a temporary fever clinic, construction workers are still nailing colored cloth.
他查了血，被确认是病毒感染。
He checked the blood and was confirmed to be infected with the virus.
又做了CT，医生告诉他，他肺部已经被病毒感染，又加了一句：「且不能排除是新型冠状病毒。
After a second CT scan, the doctor told him that his lungs had been infected with the virus and he added, "It cannot be ruled out that it is a new coronavirus.
」他接着问：「不能排除，那能不能确诊？」医生回复，这家医院无法确诊。
"Can't be ruled out," he continued. "The doctor replied that the hospital could not confirm the diagnosis.
按这位医生的说法，整个武汉市只有汉口医院、金银潭医院和武汉肺科医院有资格确诊。
According to the doctor, only Hankou Hospital, Gold and Silver Pool Hospital and Wuhan Lung Hospital are eligible for the diagnosis.
黄子杰打听了金银潭医院的情况，它是武汉第一家专门收治新型冠状病毒感染肺炎患者的定点医院。
Huang Zi Jie asked about the situation of the gold and silver pool hospital, which is the first Wuhan dedicated to treating patients with new coronavirus pneumonia.
但金银潭医院给黄子杰的回复是：只收确诊的病人——其他医院不能确诊，有确诊权的医院，又不负责确诊，只负责收治。
But the gold and silver pool hospital to Huang Zi Jie response: only accept the confirmed patients - other hospitals can not confirm, the right to the hospital, not responsible for diagnosis, only responsible for admission.
在这样一个医疗资源极紧张的时间点，这样尴尬的情况出现了。
At a time when medical resources are stretched to the limit, such an embarrassment arises.
各种消息在患者间流传，但很多事情都没有一个确切的说法。
Various messages circulate among patients, but many things do not have a precise description.
「究竟该谁来确诊？如何确诊？到现在为止，是困扰众多老百姓、引起老百姓恐慌和不解的一个重大问题。
"After all who should diagnose? How to diagnose? Up to now, it is a major problem that disturbs many people and causes people panic and incomprehension.
」另一个尴尬的事情是医药费，之前曾有规定，确诊新型冠状病毒感染肺炎的患者可以免医药费。
"Another embarrassing moment was the medical bills, which had previously been waived for patients diagnosed with pneumonia infected with the new coronavirus.
但1月22日，黄子杰去武汉红十字会医院看病时，医生的说法是：只有确诊了，才能免费。
But on January 22, Huang Zijie went to Wuhan Red Cross Hospital to see a doctor, the doctor said: only diagnosis, can be free.
又回到了老问题：没有试剂盒，无法确诊，怎么免费？疑似患者的隔离也是一个值得担心的问题。
Back to the old problem: no test kit, no diagnosis, how free? Suspected isolation of patients is also a concern.
在武汉市第六医院排队做CT时，有一幕让黄子杰吃惊——当时前面一位患者做完CT走出来，医生也跟着冲出来，朝着大家喊：「这是一例高度疑似患者，请大家疏散！」然后CT室进行了一个小时的紧急消毒。
As he queued up for a CT scan at Wuhan's Sixth Hospital, one scene surprised Huang Zijie - the doctor rushed out after a CT scan and shouted, "This is a highly suspicious case. Please evacuate!" Then the CT room underwent an emergency disinfection for an hour.
而这个高度疑似的患者，就这样大摇大摆地走掉了，现场的患者们觉得不可思议，「没有人把他拦住隔离，或者做其他深入检查。
The highly suspicious patient walked away in such a swagger that the patients at the scene found it strange that "no one stopped him and isolated him, or did any other in-depth examination."
」从现在的情况来看，大多数通过试剂盒被确诊的患者，都是早已染病、病程相对长、病情相对重的。
"As things stand, most of the patients diagnosed with the kit have long-standing illness, a relatively long history and a relatively serious illness.
数量巨大的新发病患者，都先被定义为「病毒性肺炎」或其他，再待观察。
A large number of new cases are first defined as "viral pneumonia" or other, and it remains to be seen.
但医生和患者都对此事表达了担心——随着病程发展，这个人群未来会不会成为被确诊为新型冠状病毒肺炎的强大基数？这几天，武汉的各个发热门诊都排起长队，但接诊能力有限，病情轻重不一的患者排在同一个队伍里等待。
But doctors and patients have expressed concern that as the disease progresses, will the population become a strong base for the newly diagnosed coronavirus pneumonia These days, Wuhan has long queues of fever clinics, but patients with limited capacity and varying degrees of severity are lining up in the same queue.
根据黄子杰的估算，在21日的武汉第六医院，从拿着调好的药包排队，到打上针，要40分钟。
According to Huang Zijie's estimation, in Wuhan on the 21st of the sixth hospital, from holding a set of medicine bags queuing, to the injection, it takes 40 minutes.
做皮试到交费、取药，要5个小时。
Do skin test to pay fees, take medicine, it takes 5 hours.
他一边发着高烧排队，一边考虑着交叉感染的可能。
He queued up with a high fever as he considered the possibility of cross-infection.
图源央视新闻23日晚间的央视新闻，白岩松连线国家卫健委专家组成员高福，呈现了武汉一线医生发来的消息，医生们提出的问题包括：发热病人数量众多、无法得到及时收治；收治的病人无法进行及时的病原检测（需要总体协调采样送到省疾控统一检测），导致交叉感染存在；目前尚未要求定点医院的医务人员集中食宿，医务人员下班后正常回家，医务人员被外界感染的传播渠道没有切断。
Gao Fufu, a member of the national health-care commission's expert group, presented information from Wuhan first-line doctors, who raised such issues as the number of febrile patients, unable to receive timely treatment (need for overall coordinated sampling sent to the unified provincial disease control), leading to cross-infection;
采访结束时，最后我问黄子杰准备怎么办，他苦笑了一下，「没有办法」。
At the end of the interview, I finally asked Huang Zijie what he was going to do. He smiled bitterly.
患者们期待着更多的床位，但他认为对于他这样的年轻人来说，住不住院意义不大，治疗方法还是一样的。
The patient looked forward to more beds, but he felt that for a young man like him, staying out of hospital was not a big deal and the treatment was the same.
他担心的是一件未知之事，那就是病毒是否会变异、会更强大、会加速病程。
He worries about the unknown whether the virus will mutate, become more powerful and accelerate the course of the disease.
「我也找不到答案，只有靠自己的抵抗力继续撑。
"I can't find the answer either. I just have to rely on my own resistance.
」病人在接受治疗中图源央视新闻（应采访对象要求，黄子杰为化名）。
"The patient is receiving treatment in the source CCTV news (at the request of the interviewee, Huang Zijie for aliases).
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
试剂盒供不应求，武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊之难。
There is a shortage of test kits, Wuhan new coronavirus pneumonia diagnosis is difficult.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "试剂盒供不应求，武汉新型冠状病毒肺炎确诊之难";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "「不光检测试剂数量有限，检测仪器和实验人员也都超负荷运转。
var msg _ desc = & quot; "Not only was the number of reagents tested limited, but so were the instrumentation and laboratory personnel.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
