悄悄在去武汉的路上过年。
Quietly on the way to Wuhan to celebrate the New Year.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
从武汉离开的时候，他迎面看到有好多卡车正在往自己来的地方去，他没有办法去描述那一瞬间的感动。
As he left Wuhan, he saw a lot of trucks coming to him. He couldn't describe the moving of that moment.
「我们可能都是一样的……那种感觉好像怎么都说不上来。
"We may all be the same... it feels like it's hard to say.
」大概都是再普通不过的普通人，所以才选择了逆行。
"They were probably just plain ordinary people, so they chose to go retrograde.
文｜林燕编辑｜楚明出发大年三十，王立松正在休假。
+ yeg The editor of yeg yeg Chu Ming is leaving for New Year's Eve.
他坐在家里，和亲人一起守着电视，里面白岩松正在致敬一线的医护人员。
He sat at home watching TV with his relatives, and Bai Yansong was saluting the front-line medical staff.
虽然武汉告急，但在湖北之外，人们还能看似完整地捧着新年的样子。
Although Wuhan is in urgent need, outside Hubei, people can still seem to hold the New Year's appearance in its entirety.
王立松是阿里菜鸟绿色通道的申通快递车队主管，作为物流这样一条国内运输血管里的一部分，这样的日子很快结束了。
Wang Lizong is the head of the Ari Green Channel's Shentong Express fleet, a part of a domestic shipping vessel called logistics, and that day is fast coming to an end.
总部在工作群里发给他消息：「现在运力不够，该我们了。
The head office sent him a message from his work group: "We don't have enough capacity now.
」1 月 23 日武汉封城，「封城」两个字听起来和人们没有关系，但它至少需要面对整个城市要脱离现代的供应网络，实现自给自足——显然是一件很难完成的事情。
On January 23, Wuhan, the word "city" sounded irrelevant, but it had to face at least the whole city's need to move away from modern supply networks and become self-sufficient - a difficult task to accomplish.
王立松不确定其它物资的缺乏情况，但他能肯定的是收到消息的当天武汉的蔬菜供应出了问题。
Wang was unsure about the lack of other supplies, but he was sure that the vegetables were supplied to Wuhan on the day he received the news.
作为主管，王立松从货车司机一步步走到现在，手下已经有 106 名「兄弟」，大家关系好，底下人叫他「王队」。
As the director, Wang LiSong from the truck driver step by step to the present, under his 106 "brothers," we are on good terms, people call him "the King Team."
大年三十，大家还在吃团年饭的桌子上，他要发消息召集「兄弟」去武汉送 40吨蔬菜肉类，也就是电视里那个大家都戴着口罩的地方。
At the end of the Lunar New Year, while everyone was still eating a reunion dinner table, he would send a message to "Brother" to Wuhan to deliver 40 tons of vegetable meat, where everyone wore masks on TV.
他没有想到，刚在工作群里发消息，不到一分钟就有几十人响应。
He had not expected to hear from the group, and in less than a minute dozens of people had responded.
这还不算很大的数字。
This is not a very large number.
第二天，也就是大年初一的晚上，西安的中通司机何建文也收到了自己的主管发过来的消息。
The next day, that is, New Year's Day night, Xi'an Zhongtong driver He Jianwen also received his own supervisor sent the message.
武汉防疫需要运送物资，6.5 万个 N95 口罩，5000件防护服和 2300副护目镜，所有的物资只需要一辆车。
Wuhan epidemic prevention needs to transport supplies, 65,000 N95 masks, 5,000 protective clothing and 2,300 pairs of goggles, all of which require only one vehicle.
消息出来，100多位司机报名。
More than 100 drivers signed up for the news.
那是何建文放假回家的第五天，也是他一个多月里第一次回家，他坐在沙发里刷手机，刷着刷着对家人说了句：「我明天去加班了。
It was his fifth day home on holiday and the first time in more than a month. He sat on the sofa, brushed his mobile phone and said to his family, "I'm going to work overtime tomorrow.
」小女儿不让他走，她还小，只知道自己想爸爸。
"The little girl would not let him go. She was young and knew she missed her father.
所以第二天他起得很早，在所有人还睡着的时候悄悄离开了家。
So the next day he got up early and quietly left the house while everyone was still asleep.
公司的地址离住的地方还有70公里，他要计算着在 8 点的时候赶到，那是临近发车去武汉的时刻点。
The company's address was 70 kilometers from where he lived, and he had to calculate that he would be there by eight o'clock, just before the departure time for Wuhan.
报名的司机太多了，早点到能上车的概率会大一些。
Too many drivers sign up for the bus, the probability of getting on the bus earlier will be higher.
「大家都愿意去。
"Everyone wants to go.
」何建文是那天第一个到的司机，和他一起上车的还有第三个到的朱峰，第二个到的司机年龄大了一些，那时候新闻里说新冠肺炎对老人的威胁较大，何建文和朱峰想办法说服了他回家。
He Jianwen was the first driver to arrive that day, along with the third, Zhu Feng, who arrived a little older when the news said the new crown pneumonia was a greater threat to the elderly, and He Jianwen and Zhu Feng managed to persuade him to go home.
这个场景让人很难联想到，他们抢着要上去的是一辆开往疫区的车。
The scene is hard to think of, they are scrambling to go up is a car to epidemic areas.
中通司机何建文图源受访者同时，在大年初一的晚上十一点，下车的德邦快递司机谢超锋正要入睡，工作群里突然收到一条消息：「北京需要空运一批救援物资送到湖北省黄石市中心医院，招募司机。
Meanwhile, at 11 pm on New Year's Day, Xie Xiangfeng, a despatch driver who got off the bus, was about to fall asleep when a message came to the work group: "Beijing needs to airlift a batch of relief materials to Huangshi City Central Hospital in Hubei Province to recruit drivers.
」他没有多思考，在群里回复了：「自愿请战，支援武汉。
"He did not think much, replied in the group:" Please volunteer to support Wuhan.
」后来他还特意多问了自己的主管，「这是不是商业的？如果是商业的我就不去了。
"Later he asked his supervisor," Is this commercial? If it's commercial, I'm not going.
」在他看来，这样一趟如果还要挣人家钱，自己干不下去。
It seemed to him that such a visit, if it were to earn money, would be impossible for him.
湖南离湖北很近，对疾病的害怕快速扩散到了这里，谢超锋没有遇到很多的竞争者，还有些关心他的同行说：「湖北现在都那样了，你去是去送死。
Hunan Province is very close to Hubei, the fear of disease spread here quickly, Xie Xiangfeng did not meet many competitors, and some of his concerned colleagues said: "Hubei is now like that, you go to die.
」家里的父母不支持，只有老婆什么都没说的跟着自己。
"The parents didn't support him, only his wife followed him without saying anything.
第二天，他们悄悄地从家里出发，八个月的孩子留在家里。
The next day they set out quietly from home, leaving the eight-month-old at home.
也不是所有车队都会用这种自愿的方式。
Nor will all convoys use this voluntary approach.
广州申通快递的司机贺川川是被上级指派的，这件事情太突然了，领导能想到的就是最快能上车的司机，他今年没有回家过年，就留在广州。
He Chuan Chuan, the driver of Guangzhou Shentong Express, was appointed by his superiors. It was so sudden that the leader could think of a driver who could get on the bus as soon as possible.
「主管问我愿不愿意去，我就说行嘛。
"The supervisor asked me if I would like to go, so I said yes.
」能帮一点是一点，他的车上有两万只医用口罩。
"To help a little, he had twenty thousand medical masks in his car.
不过到今天，他的隔离已经结束了，家人也不知道他曾经去过武汉。
But to this day, his isolation has ended, and his family did not know that he had been to Wuhan.
在苏州，百世快递90后司机赵兴宏也上路了。
In Suzhou, 100 express express 90 driver Zhao Xinghong also hit the road.
他公司老板认识一个做医药器材的朋友，对方送了好多防护物资，手套、脚套、雨披、帽子、口罩、酒精，还买了好多吃的。
The owner of his company knew a friend who made medical equipment. He gave him a lot of protective gear, gloves, gloves, a raincoat, a hat, a mask, alcohol, and a lot of food.
他的车上贴着「助力武汉，共抗疫情，百世在行动」的横幅，终点是三个湖北周边医院。
His vehicle was decorated with the banner "Help Wuhan, fight the epidemic, 100 lives in action," ending in three hospitals around Hubei.
在群里发了召集消息没有多久，王立松把电话打给了群里最早的响应者之一肖建波。
Not long after the call was made in the group, Wang called Xiao Jianbo, one of the group's earliest responders.
他41岁，开了 22 年车，性格温和、稳重，王立松最放心的司机就是他。
He is 41 years old, driving a 22-year-old car, gentle, steady character, Wang LiSong's most assured driver is him.
其他报名的司机，家距离公司大多在一两百公里开外，肖建波的家离公司最近，只有十多公里，时间不等人，马上要就走，所以就是他了。
Most of the other drivers signed up from the company a hundred kilometers away, Xiao Jianbo's home is only more than 10 kilometers away from the company, time is not waiting for people, soon to leave, so it is him.
肖建波接到王立松的电话是大年三十晚上十点，出门的时候是十点过十分，着急地只来得及跟媳妇简单说一声就走了。
Xiao Jianbo received Wang Li-song's telephone call is about 10 p. m. on the eve of New Year's Eve. It was ten minutes past ten when he left home.
他14岁的女儿不知道爸爸这么晚出门要干什么，因为爸爸只说了一句，「我出去一趟」。
His 14-year-old daughter had no idea what Dad was going to do so late because he had just said, "I'm going out."
这是一次危险的「秘密行动」。
It was a dangerous "covert operation."
上路卡车司机是在高速路上和时间赛跑的人，路程很长，吃喝睡都是问题，出发前要做的准备工作很多。
Road Truckers are people who race against time on the highway, have long distances, have problems eating and sleeping, and have a lot of preparation to do before setting out.
以前出门肖建波会带上便携炉子，炒锅，在车载冰箱里放些米和蔬菜，这样路上才方便吃到热饭热菜。
Xiao Jianbo used to go out with a portable stove, frying pan, in the car refrigerator put some rice and vegetables, so that hot food can be easily eaten on the road.
但当天，一切都来不及准备了，带着一个水壶和几桶泡面坐上了驾驶座。
But that day, everything was too late to prepare, with a kettle and a few buckets of noodles sat in the driver's seat.
趁物资装卸的空档，他连忙回家去拿了一床御寒的被子。
While the load and unload were empty, he hurried home to get a warm quilt.
大年初一早上6点，他和公司另一名司机就出发了，两人开两台车。
New Year's Day at 6 a.m., he and another company driver set out, two people driving two cars.
重庆往武汉900公里，按照80公里的时速，也要开近12个小时。
Chongqing to Wuhan 900 kilometers, at 80 kilometers per hour, will also drive nearly 12 hours.
对卡车司机来说，疲劳驾驶是大忌。
For truck drivers, tiredness is a major concern.
按照规定，驾驶4个小时就要换司机，但他们两台车只有两个人。
They were required to change drivers for four hours, but there were only two of them.
好在群里又联系到一个湖北的司机，他们在宜昌路段附近接到他，接下来就看怎么支撑完重庆到宜昌的距离。
Fortunately, the group contacted a driver in Hubei, they received him in the vicinity of Yichang road, and then see how to support the distance between Chongqing and Yichang.
但是，一个问题解决，又来一个新问题。
But one problem is solved, and another is solved.
他们的车油不够了，公司的加油站员工放假了，现有的油也撑不到那个时候。
They don't have enough gas, the company's gas station staff have holidays, the existing oil will not last.
已经开上高速的肖建波，只能边开车边找加油站。
Xiao Jianbo, already on the highway, had to find a gas station while driving.
那一路，他只睡了不到五个小时。
He slept less than five hours that way.
所有去往武汉的卡车司机遇到的都是这样的路况，很难看到其它的车，很难看到行人，平时可以停下来吃饭的服务区关闭了。
All the truckers heading to Wuhan encountered this state of affairs, difficult to see other cars, difficult to see pedestrians, usually stop to eat the service area closed.
早一些支援的司机还能看到相反方向的车流是正常的，只有自己的这边显得格外安静。
Early support drivers were able to see a normal flow of traffic in the opposite direction, with only their own side showing extraordinary quiet.
但后来，两边的车流都消失了，只剩下自己，发动机在路上轰轰作响。
But then the traffic on both sides disappeared, leaving only themselves and the engine roaring on the road.
这是一条在何建文的经验里，更像是西北无人区的道路。
This is in the experience of He Jianwen, more like the road in the no man's land of the northwest.
但又有些不同，跨越行政区划界限的时候会遇上一群穿着白色防护服，戴着口罩和护目镜的防疫人员，旁边往往站着警察。
But some differences, across the administrative boundaries will encounter a group of white protective clothing, wearing masks and goggles, often standing next to the police.
从西安到武汉，平时 12 个小时的车程，他开了不到 10小时就到了。
From Xi'an to Wuhan, he arrived in less than 10 hours' drive in a 12-hour drive.
「以往我们这个时候（车流大）开车速度非常慢，能开到 80都是快的，但是这次基本上是它限速多少我们就跑到多少。
"We used to drive very slowly at this time of year and it was fast to drive up to 80, but this time it was basically as fast as we could get.
」在出发前，赤壁那边医院的对接人和他说，「我们什么都没有了。
"Before we set out, the docking man at the hospital on the other side of Chibi said to him," We have nothing left.
」9.6 米的大车开进去赤壁已经是夜间十一点，他才意识到这件事情比自己想象中的严重，路上的路灯没有全部开着，到处都能看到警戒线，更让人觉得异常安静，一种没有人声的安静。
"It was eleven o'clock in the night before he realized that it was more serious than he had expected. The street lights were not all on, and pickets could be seen everywhere, making him feel unusually quiet and silent.
整个路上何建文没有吃一口饭，也没有感觉到饿，越接近终点，人的感受也慢慢地回来。
The whole road He Jianwen did not eat a mouthful of rice, did not feel hungry, the closer to the end of the people's feelings slowly back.
人是会恐惧的，尤其是对于刚在百世工作一年的 90后赵兴宏而言。
People are afraid, especially for Zhao Xinghong, who has just worked for 100 years.
他的任务是运送物资从苏州出发，先去黄冈市英山县人民医院，再到黄石市第七人民医院，最后抵达荆门市第二人民医院。
His mission was to transport materials from Suzhou, first to the Yingshan County People's Hospital in Huanggang City, then to the Seventh People's Hospital in Huangshi City and finally to the Second People's Hospital in Jingmen City.
「从黄石到荆门的路上途经武汉，来检查的警察和医护人员对全车进行消毒，他们全副武装，都是白色的，看起来挺可怕的，就有点不敢下车。
"On the way from Wong Shek to Jingmen through Wuhan, the police and medical staff came to disinfect the vehicle. They were armed, white, looked terrible, and a little afraid to get off.
」这一路往返将近2700公里，他开了 36 个小时，连屁股都觉得不是自己的。
"The ride lasted nearly 2,700 kilometres and he drove 36 hours without even knowing his bottom was his own.
在送完两个目的地的物资后，赵兴宏还在路上，身体实在支撑不住给最后一个联系人发了消息，说：「开不动了。
After delivering the goods to two destinations, Zhao Xinghong was still on his way. He could not support himself enough to send a message to the last contact.
」连对方回复的消息都没看见，马上睡着过去，但一个多小时后他又重新上路。
"Not seeing a reply, he went to sleep immediately, but after more than an hour he returned to the road.
大家几乎都是这样过的，没有人敢在这条路上怠慢。
Almost everyone lives like this, no one dares to neglect it on this road.
在确定这次的援助不是商业性质的之后，谢超锋和妻子早上六点就从家里出发，他们先去长沙的黄花机场接了物资，那是他见过机场最空旷的一次，再驮负着 4000副医疗手套，10000个外科口罩一路没有休息地抵达了黄石。
After deciding that the aid was not commercial, Xie and his wife set out from home at six in the morning. They picked up supplies at Changsha's Huanghua airport, the most empty he had ever seen at the airport. He packed 4,000 medical gloves and 10,000 surgical masks reached Yellowstone without rest.
出发前妻子准备好了路上可以吃的饭，细心地放在电保温瓶里，但一路上他们都没有打开过，是晚上到了黄石，饿的感觉好像才重新回来。
Before leaving, the wife prepared the food for the trip and carefully placed it in an electric thermos bottle. But they didn't open it all the way.
当时在的服务站已经没有什么人了，他去找保安哪里可以充电，这样两个人可以垫垫肚子。
There was no one left at the service station. He went to the security guard to find where he could recharge the battery so that two people could cushion their stomachs.
对方问他：「你们过来做什么？」「过来送物资。
He was asked, "What are you doing here?" "Come and deliver the supplies.
」保安把当时自己正在烤火的电炉拔了下来，对谢超锋说：「这儿有插头。
"The guard pulled out the electric stove which he was burning and said to Xie," There is a plug here.
」德邦司机谢超锋和妻子彭佳丽图源受访者返程这一路上这样的时刻还有好多。
There are many more such moments along the way for De Bonhams driver Xie Chao-feng and wife Peng Jialitu respondents returning home.
如果车头前面有挂武汉防疫的横幅，有的时候过收费站能够听到工作人员多说的一句「谢谢你们」或者「加油」，会比平时更顺利地通到湖北。
If the front of the vehicle is hung Wuhan anti-epidemic banner, sometimes the toll booth can hear staff say more "thank you" or "refueling", will more smoothly than usual to Hubei.
但返程艰辛。
But the return was hard.
何建文进湖北的时候基本没有遇到什么阻拦，但出来的时候就被拦下来了，在重新上高速之前花了一个多小时在找路和找人证明才重新回家。
He Jianwen entered Hubei basically did not encounter any obstruction, but when he came out was stopped, before re-high speed spent more than an hour looking for direction and proof before returning home.
路上有重重的防疫关卡，他刚到西安就被集中隔离了起来，这几天才隔离结束，但年已经过完了，他要重新上路。
As soon as he arrived in Xi'an, he was hermetically quarantined. It took a few days for him to be quarantined, but the year was over and he was on his way again.
「回来之后，感觉和湖北那边（的人）是一体的。
"When I came back, I felt as if I was on the other side of Hubei.
」这是赵兴宏的感觉。
"This is Zhao Xinghong's feeling.
因为和妻子一起住，没有别的隔离住处，赵兴宏运送物资到三个医院的任务完成之后，他开始在车上自我隔离，就吃面包，喝矿泉水。
As he lived with his wife and had no other separate accommodation, Zhao Xinghong began to isolate himself on the bus, eating bread and drinking mineral water after his mission to transport supplies to the three hospitals was completed.
车停在公司里，回来睡了一天一夜，他忘记撕掉自己车上写着「武汉防疫」的横幅，保安对车消毒的时候，跟身边的人说：「不要靠近他的这辆车。
He forgot to tear up the banner saying "Wuhan Preventive Security" on his car. As the guard disinfected the car, he said to the people next to him, "Do not come near his car.
」他躺着睡觉，但是还是听见了。
"He lay down to sleep, but he did hear.
三天过去，妻子实在不忍心，她回自己单位的宿舍，把家让给了赵兴宏。
Three days later, the wife really can not bear to go back to her unit's dormitory, give up the home to Zhao Xinghong.
这样的经历并不是孤例，谢超锋开车从黄石回自己县城，经过防疫关卡的时候，有一个小护士在前面负责登记。
This experience is not alone, Xie Xiangfeng from Yellowstone back to his county town, after the vaccination checkpoint, a small nurse in front of the registration.
「没到我的时候，她有说有笑的，但一听到我是从湖北来的，她马上把口罩戴了三层，说『你离我远点。
"She talked and laughed before I arrived, but as soon as she heard that I was from Hubei, she immediately put on three layers of masks and said," You stay away from me.
』」他苦笑。
"he smiled bitterly.
回家之后，他和妻子把车子停好，避开家人从后门进屋，洗完澡就躲开妻子去单独的房子里隔离。
When they got home, he and his wife parked the car, avoided their families coming in through the back door and took a bath to avoid their wives going to separate houses.
隔离期间，他从电话里得知孩子有些感冒的症状，两个人都没办法出去，只能拜托老人家带着孩子去医院。
Isolation, he learned from the telephone that the child has some cold symptoms, both people can not go out, can only ask the old people to take their children to the hospital.
「我们去过武汉，我爸妈就带孩子去做那个检测，后来证明是没有。
"We went to Wuhan and my parents took the kids to the test and it turned out they didn't.
但是现在想起来心里还是不好受的，我爸妈那么大的年纪，让他们去那么危险的地方。
But it still hurts to think about it. My parents are so old and let them go to such a dangerous place.
」肖建波的家乡倒是对他们很不错，村里安排了一家农家乐，给他单独分了一间屋子，每天有人送饭，有菜有肉。
Xiao Jianbo's hometown was very kind to them. The village arranged for a farmyard and gave him a separate room with food and meat every day.
除了用手机看新闻，他还做另外两件事，泡茶和晒太阳，十四天过去之后，胖了六斤。
Besides watching the news on his cell phone, he did two other things, making tea and getting some sun. Fourteen days later, he put on six pounds.
但是一直在想家，他天天给家里打电话，最多的时候一天打十多个电话。
But he has been homesick, he called home every day, most of the time a dozen phone calls a day.
2月10日，他回家第一件事是抱住了妻子。
The first thing he did on 10 February was to hold his wife in his arms.
去武汉送物资，有的时候需要对抗的不只是病毒。
Wuhan to send supplies, sometimes need to fight not only the virus.
普通隔离的举措是必要的，但这也造成了运力的进一步紧张。
Ordinary isolation is necessary, but it also creates further strains on capacity.
因为每个从武汉回来的卡机司机，都会在接下来的14天里什么也做不了。
Because every truck driver who comes back from Wuhan will do nothing for the next 14 days.
紧接着，第二批运送物资的需求就要来了，当时武汉的疫情形势严峻，确诊人数已经有两万人。
Immediately afterwards, a second shipment of supplies will be needed, when the situation in Wuhan was severe, confirmed the number of people has been 20, 000.
主管王立松又再发了一条信息，结果这次比上次自愿报名的司机人数还多。
Wang LiSong, director of the department, sent another message, which this time was more than the number of drivers who had volunteered.
每个人都有自己决定前往的理由。
Everyone has his or her own reasons for going.
西安司机何建文抵达赤壁之后，他把车停在医院附近的羽毛球场，那一瞬间人终于能感觉到轻松了。
When Xi'an driver He Jianwen arrived at the Red Cliff, he parked his car in the badminton court near the hospital.
医院的院长，护士，主任都出来一起帮忙搬物资。
Hospital directors, nurses, and directors came out to help move supplies.
院长还让护士长给何建文和朱峰下了两碗面，他们已经提前准备好了住的地方，还说要办感谢会。
The dean also asked the head nurse to make two bowls of noodles for Ho Jianwen and Zhu Feng.
但他不是为了这些来的，只停留了两个小时何建文和朱峰就开车离开了武汉。
But he did not come for these, only stay two hours He Jianwen and Zhu Feng drove away from Wuhan.
出发前他没有想很多，「我和朱峰都当过兵，这件事情就像给前线士兵送枪送弹药一样，没觉得有多危险，因为我觉得就得这么做。
He didn't think much about it before he left. "I've been in the army with Zhu Feng, and it's like sending guns and ammunition to soldiers on the front line.
」除了何建文，往武汉运蔬菜的肖建波也是这么想。
Besides Ho Jianwen, Xiao Jianbo, who carried vegetables to Wuhan, thought the same way.
他成为一名卡车司机之前开了11年公交，有一回乘客上车，他眼尖看到一个小偷在偷前面人的手机，他大吼一声，小偷被吓得掉头就跑。
He was on a bus for 11 years before becoming a truck driver. Once he got on the bus and saw a thief stealing someone's cell phone in front of him.
2008 年汶川地震的时候，虽然没有能做什么，但也尽力捐了款。
Wenchuan earthquake in 2008, although there was nothing to do, but also made an effort to donate money.
这次能给武汉送蔬菜，在路上吃泡面的时候偶尔会想念家里的炖鸡汤和辣味十足的家常菜，但他觉得这些没什么，因为这是工作，是一件没什么原因的事，是事情本来应该的样子。
This time can send vegetables to Wuhan, while eating noodles on the road will occasionally miss the home stew soup and spicy home dishes, but he felt that it is nothing, because it is work, is a matter of no reason, is the way things should be.
对于从长沙出发的谢超锋来说有些不一样，他经历了2003 年的非典。
For Xie Xiangfeng from Changsha a little different, he experienced the SARS in 2003.
那时候他在北京读大二，班上有一个人被确诊了 SARS，因此全班的人都要在一栋宿舍楼里面隔离。
He was a sophomore in Beijing when a man in his class was diagnosed with SARS, so the class had to be quarantined in a dormitory building.
全班 23 个人，大多是本地的学生，会有家人来看望。
Twenty-three members of the class, mostly local students, will be visited by their families.
「有3 个同学是外地的，就没有人去看过他们，当时觉得还挺感慨的。
"There are three students from other places, no one went to see them, then feel quite moved.
」这次去武汉，在卡车快要下高速的时候，他远远就看到了另一边有一群人对着车子招手。
On his way to Wuhan, near the end of the freeway, he saw a group of people waving to the car from the other side.
对接人带着各个科室的人开自己的小车过来接物资，他们没有穿防护服，只有一层医用口罩。
Docking people with various departments of people driving their own car to pick up supplies, they did not wear protective clothing, only a layer of medical masks.
那时候，他们的医用手套用过，消毒再用。
At that time, their medical gloves were used, disinfected and reused.
「真的是看到车是像看亲人一样的那种感觉。
"It's really like watching a loved one when I see a car.
」作为年轻一些的司机，赵兴宏对疫情的了解更为准确一些。
As a younger driver, Zhao Xinghong knew the epidemic more accurately.
他有很多的微信群，每天都被信息包裹着，他听到一些从湖北那边传出来的视频里，有女孩子在哭。
He has a lot of micro-faith groups, wrapped in messages every day, he heard some video from the other side of Hubei, there are girls crying.
「我感觉挺严重的，如果没有物资运送过去的话，一线的医务人员可能没办法去打这场仗，这个病压不下去，那威胁的可能不是哪一个人，可能是我自己，也可能是我自己的亲人和朋友。
"I feel very serious, if there is no delivery of supplies, the front-line medical staff may not be able to fight the war, the disease will not continue, the threat may not be any one, it may be me, my own relatives and friends.
」一路上，赵兴宏都是一个人，没有搭档。
"Along the way, Zhao Xinghong was a person without a partner.
但在从武汉离开的时候，他迎面看到有好多卡车正在往自己来的地方去，他没有办法去描述那一瞬间的感动。
But when he left Wuhan, he saw a lot of trucks going to his place. He couldn't describe the moving of that moment.
「我们可能都是一样的……那种感觉好像怎么都说不上来。
"We may all be the same... it feels like it's hard to say.
」大概都是再普通不过的普通人，所以才选择了逆行。
"They were probably just plain ordinary people, so they chose to go retrograde.
图源视觉中国没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
Graph source vision China did not see enough? Long two-dimensional attention to "People" micro-message more wonderful story waiting for you.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
悄悄在去武汉的路上过年。
Quietly on the way to Wuhan to celebrate the New Year.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "悄悄在去武汉的路上过年";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; on the way to Wuhan.
var msg_desc = "「没有人，没有车，路灯也少，像是无人区。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; "No one, no car, and few street lights, like no man's land.
」";。
";;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
