武汉会战：一场史无前例的超级行动。
Wuhan will fight: an unprecedented super operation.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊                      。
China News Weekly.
中国新闻周刊。
China News Weekly.
这里是《中国新闻周刊》掌门周刊君，影响有影响力的你。
This is the head of China News Weekly magazine, the influence of influential you.
和我一起拨开迷雾，追寻真相，守望时代。
Join me as we move through the fog, seek the truth and keep watch.
。
.
伴随着火神山、雷神山医院开始收治病人，15家方舱医院陆续启动，各省医疗队开赴武汉，武汉所有确诊患者与疑似病例都将“应收尽收”。
Along with the fire Shenshan, Lei Shenshan Hospital began to accept patients, 15 cabin hospitals started, provincial medical teams to Wuhan, Wuhan, all confirmed patients and suspected cases will be "receivable.
在人类抗击疫病的历史上，“武汉会战”已成为一场史无前例的超级行动图/新华、中新武汉会战本刊记者/刘远航 黄孝光 李明子发于2020.2.17总第935期《中国新闻周刊》凌晨3点钟，来自江汉区各个街道的转运车在武汉国际会展中心门口陆续停下。
In the history of fighting epidemic diseases, Wuhan Metro-War has become an unprecedented super-graph / Xinhua, Wuhan Metro Press reporter / Liu Yuanhai Huang Xiaoguang Li Mingzi in 2020.2.17, issue No. 935 of China News Weekly.
这是2月6日夜里，临时改建的武展方舱医院刚刚落成，社区隔离点里的部分轻症患者连夜被转移到这里，迎接他们的，是刚刚组建的外地医疗队。
On the night of February 6, the makeshift military exhibition cabin hospital had just been built, and some of the light patients in the community quarantined had been moved overnight to meet them by the newly formed field medical team.
雨一直没有停。
The rain never stopped.
王军是江汉区唐家墩街道的一名转运司机，他的同事原本只负责接送1位患者，结果从隔离酒店下来了14个病人，一直忙到凌晨4点，防护服都湿透了，已经失去防护效果。
Wang Jun, a transporter on Tangjiatun Street in the Han Dynasty, worked with 14 patients from the isolated hotel, who were soaked to the skin at 4 a.m. and had no protective effect.
王军接了班，继续送患者去方舱医院。
Wang Jun took over and continued to take the patient to the Fang Cao Hospital.
天渐渐亮了，部分患者并不符合入驻要求，也有人不满意里面的条件，他只好把他们原路送回。
As the day dawned, some of the patients did not meet the admission requirements, others were not satisfied with the conditions inside, he had to return them to their original way.
这趟任务结束时，已经是晚上11点半。
By the end of the mission, it was 11: 30 p.m.
王军穿着防护服，瘫坐在那辆货车改装的转运车里。
Wearing protective clothing, the Royal Army collapsed in the van's converted transporter.
这些天来，他一直往返于方舱医院、定点医院和社区隔离点之间。
These days, he has been commuting between the cabin hospital, the designated hospital and the community isolation point.
从车里往外看，他看到国家紧急医学救援队的物资车停在方舱医院外，轻症患者们从转运车里下来，每人手里都拎着大包小包，等待医护人员的筛查。
Looking out of the car, he saw the National Emergency Medical Rescue Team parked outside the cabin hospital and the light patients disembarking from the transporter, each carrying a large bag, waiting to be screened by medical staff.
这是一场不得不打的战役。
It was a battle that had to be fought.
极度紧缺的医疗资源，不断增长的确诊人数，交叉感染的安全隐患，还有到处弥漫着的恐慌心理，都是摆在面前的挑战。
The acute shortage of medical resources, the growing number of confirmed cases, the security implications of cross-infection and the pervasive sense of panic are all challenges ahead.
最初由一些学者提出的全面排查和分层隔离的建议，逐渐成为社会共识，最终转化为一场超级行动。
The proposal for comprehensive screening and stratification, originally put forward by some scholars, gradually became a social consensus, which eventually turned into a super-action.
1月27日，中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理孙春兰率中央指导组抵达湖北省武汉市，落实中央应对新冠肺炎疫情工作领导小组的部署要求。
On January 27, a member of the Politburo and Vice Premier of the State Council, Sun Chunlan, led the Central Steering Group to Wuhan, Hubei Province, to implement the deployment requirements of the Leading Group for the Central Response to the New Crown Pneumonia Epidemic.
2月2日，湖北省疫情防控指挥部召开会议，要求对所有疑似患者进行集中隔离。
February 2, the Hubei Province epidemic prevention and control command held a meeting, the request for all suspected patients to be concentrated isolation.
短短数日，文件由中央下达到地方，层层传达，直至这套行政系统的神经末梢——武汉市的每一条街道与每一个社区。
In a matter of days, documents have traveled from the centre down to the local level, down to the nerve endings of the administrative system - every street and community in Wuhan.
2月6日，3所方舱医院在两天之内就改建完毕，开始接收确诊的轻症患者。
On 6 February, three cabin hospitals were renovated within two days and began receiving confirmed light cases.
很快，武汉方面又宣布，方舱数量从最初的3所迅速扩到15所。
Soon, Wuhan announced that the number of square cabins from the original three rapidly expanded to 15.
与此同时，全国的力量也被组织和调动起来，各地医疗救援队源源不断地奔赴武汉。
At the same time, the national forces were also organized and mobilized, medical rescue teams from all over the country rushed to Wuhan.
此时，距离疫情最初的暴发已经过去了一个多月时间。
At this point, more than a month has passed since the initial outbreak of the epidemic.
很多人都在关注着，这场由上而下的国家行动，能否在一直忙乱的防控战场中趟出一片平缓地带，为局面的好转赢得机会。
Many are watching to see whether this top-down state action will pave the way for improvement in the battle zone, which has been in a state of flux.
1月28日晚，武汉市江汉区唐家墩街道西桥社区的一个小区里，社区安保员李国华拿着小喇叭喊话让居民注意安全注意防疫。
On the night of January 28, Li Guohua, a community security guard, shouted with a loudspeaker to alert residents to safety in a small neighbourhood of the Xichao neighbourhood of Tangjiatun Street in the Jianghan district of Wuhan.
摄影/长江日报 陈卓上海医疗救治专家组组长、华山医院感染科主任张文宏指出，眼下，武汉大决战的序幕不过是刚刚拉开。
Zhang Wenhong, director of the infection department at Huashan Hospital and head of the panel of experts on medical treatment in Shanghai for the Changjiang Daily, said the curtain was just beginning on the final stage of the Wuhan Armageddon.
目前仍是发病人数快速上升的阶段，部分病人还未得到确诊而散落在外，估计防控措施真正起效，要待两大“神山医院”全部收治、确诊病人完全隔离后1～2周的时间。
At present, the number of cases is still rising rapidly, some patients have not been diagnosed and scattered outside, it is estimated that the prevention and control measures are really effective, until the two "Shenshan Hospital" all treatment, confirmed patients after complete isolation 1-2 weeks.
届时，疫情的平台期和拐点是可以到来的。
At that time, the platform and inflection point of the epidemic can come.
这位直言不讳的临床医学专家认为，目前还是“黎明前最黑暗的时候”。
The outspoken clinical expert said it was "the darkest time before dawn".
全面动员刚开始接受采访的时候，周念平说自己“快要死了”。
Full mobilization just began to be interviewed, Zhou Nianping said he was "dying."
他是武汉市硚口区某社区的主任，年纪三十出头。
He is the director of a community in Zhengkou District of Wuhan City.
社区只有8个工作人员，要服务一万多名居民。
The community has only eight staff members serving more than 10,000 residents.
物业一直没开工，社区工作人员要包打一切，发过一次防护服，但“比纸还薄”，平时只有口罩。
Property has not started, community workers to beat everything, issued a protective clothing, but "thinner than paper", usually only masks.
一天前，一个确诊病人因为住不进医院，到社区办公室闹，摘下口罩到处吐口水，说要跟他们同归于尽。
A day ago, a confirmed patient, unable to enter the hospital, went to the community office, took off his mask and spat everywhere, saying he would die with them.
“我其实一点也不怕，甚至巴不得被感染。
"I'm not afraid at all, I wish I could get infected.
我们现在就算身体扛得住，但精神和心理也扛不住了。
We can carry it now, but we cannot carry it mentally or psychologically.
过年一天都没休息，接下来还要24小时值班，到这时候，身体也快熬不住了。
Not a day after the holidays, the next 24 hours on duty, by this time, the body will soon be unable to stand.
”周念平对《中国新闻周刊》说。
Zhou told China News Weekly.
位于武昌区水果湖街道的放鹰台社区，在疫情暴发之前有15名工作人员。
The Falcon Terrace community, located on the Shuiguohu street in Wuchang district, had 15 staff members before the outbreak.
春节来临那段时间，大家都还在忙着组织各种社区惠民项目，包括百家宴和老年人生日会。
As the Spring Festival approaches, everyone is still busy organizing various community welfare programs, including a hundred feasts and a birthday party for the elderly.
疫情发生之后，工作人员不断减少，有的是因为老家封路，无法进出；有的父母病重，无法脱身；还有的是自己出现了发热症状。
In the aftermath of the outbreak, staff were reduced, either because their homes were sealed off, or because their parents were so ill that they could not escape, or because they developed fever.
现在，这里只剩下7个人坚持工作。
Right now, there are only seven people left to work.
减员超过半数，社区书记只能身先士卒，事无巨细，包括搀扶发热居民上救护车。
With more than half of the staff cut, the community secretary was left to take the lead, including helping heating residents into ambulances.
1月29日，这位社区书记也感染了，隔离在家。
On 29 January, the community secretary was also infected and kept in isolation.
压力全部落在了副书记余娟身上。
All the pressure fell on Deputy Secretary Yu Juan.
“现在新增的疑似病例都是因为家里有确诊的患者，密集接触之后家属也出现了发热症状。
"The new suspected cases are all due to confirmed cases in the home and the family members have fever symptoms after intense contact," he said.
但问题是，确诊的病人没有地方去，安排不了医院。
The problem, however, is that the diagnosed patients have no place to go and cannot be placed in a hospital.
”余娟告诉《中国新闻周刊》。
Yu told China News Weekly.
医院床位的短缺，是症结所在。
The shortage of hospital beds is the crux of the matter.
很多居民想尽办法，四处托关系，但仍然一“床”难求。
Many residents try their best to trust each other, but they still find it difficult to get a bed.
一位女子在小区阳台上敲锣，为病重的母亲求助，希望可以住进医院。
A woman on the balcony of a small gongs, for the seriously ill mother to ask for help, hope to be admitted to the hospital.
这段视频在网上广泛传播，而类似的事情每天都在武汉发生。
The video was widely distributed online, and similar events take place every day in Wuhan.
在余娟看来，混乱的秩序加剧了本就紧张的局面。
In Yu's view, the chaos of order exacerbated the already tense situation.
就诊流程不清晰，无论是确诊患者的住院，还是疑似病例的诊断，还有出现发热症状的居民，都被要求来社区开证明。
There is a lack of clarity in the procedures, whether it is the hospitalization of a confirmed patient, the diagnosis of a suspected case, or the presence of fever symptoms, who are required to come to the community to issue a certificate.
余娟说，社区工作人员是“当爹又当妈”。
Yu Juan said that the community workers are "when father and mother."
这在所难免——社区是城市实施网格化管理的基础，是传染病防控的第一道防线。
This is inevitable - communities are the foundation of grid management in cities and the first line of defense against infectious diseases.
网格化管理模式起源于上海市2003年在抗击“非典”时的管理经验，具体做法就是将辖区按照一定标准划分成若干个网格，通过对网格巡查、监督主动发现问题并及时处理。
The pattern of grid management originated from the management experience of Shanghai in the fight against SARS in 2003 by dividing the jurisdiction into several grids according to certain standards.
余娟也接到过上面下发的“告市民书”，留了“888”开头的热线电话。
Yu Juanjuan also received the above-issued "citizen's letter", left "888" the beginning of the hotline.
她曾经拿着喇叭在社区里宣传这份文件，说有需求就打热线。
She once used a loudspeaker to promote the document in her community, calling the hotline if she needed it.
但后来居民们纷纷反映，这个号码不是占线就是转接中，根本不起作用，最后还是找到社区头上来。
But residents later reported that the number was either busy or transiting, did not work at all, and finally found the community.
1月31日，在武汉市汉口新华路，一些送疑似新冠病毒感染者去医院确诊的家属站在路边等消息。
On January 31, Xinhua Road, Hankou, Wuhan City, some of the suspected new crown virus infected family members to the hospital to stand on the roadside waiting for news.
摄影/长江日报 金思柳基层工作人员面对的，还有社区居民在恐慌心理作用下的各种行为与反应。
Photography / Changjiang Daily Jinsiliu grass-roots staff face, but also community residents in the role of fear under the various behaviors and reactions.
有的疑似病人在隔离期间溜出酒店，偷偷跑到医院做检查，检查结果没事，却谎称自己病重，半夜打电话给社区要求安排车辆，接自己回去。
Suspected patients sneak out of the hotel during isolation, sneak to the hospital for a check-up, check-up results, but falsely claim that they are seriously ill, call the community in the middle of the night to request a car, pick up their own back.
也有很多居民本来只是普通感冒，却坚持去定点医院做检查，结果被交叉感染。
There are also a lot of residents who had a common cold, but insisted on going to the hospital for a check-up, resulting in cross-infection.
个别市民还有更“奇葩”的行为。
Some citizens also behave in a more "wonderful way."
有的老人虽独自生活，但子女就住在附近小区，也要求社区为其买菜购物，甚至对商品的牌子有明确要求，需要跑好几个地方才能买到。
Some elderly people live alone, but the children live in nearby communities, and the community is also required to buy vegetables for them, even on the brand of the goods, which requires several places to buy.
基层社区的困境只是武汉疫情防控的一个缩影。
The plight of grass-roots community is just a microcosm of Wuhan epidemic prevention and control.
武汉负责收治重症病人的定点医院已经人满为患，超负荷运转。
Wuhan, the designated hospital for the treatment of seriously ill patients is already overcrowded and overloaded.
更令人揪心的是，不断有医务人员被感染，医护减员情况严峻。
Even more disturbing is the continuing infection of medical personnel and the high level of medical attrition.
1月22日，武汉市金银潭医院副院长黄朝林被确诊为新冠病毒肺炎，如今仍在隔离病房接受治疗。
On January 22, Huang Chaolin, vice-president of Wuhan Gold and Silver Pool Hospital, was confirmed to have pneumonia and is still being treated in an isolation ward.
黄朝林不仅一直奋战在抗疫一线，其间还在《柳叶刀》杂志上发文，解析了武汉最早一批41例病人的情况。
Not only did Huang Chaolin fight against the epidemic, but he also wrote in The Lancet magazine, analyzing the situation of the first 41 cases in Wuhan.
武汉大学中南医院ICU主任彭志勇在《美国医学会杂志》（JAMA）上发表文章称，截至1月28日该院的138例病人中，41.3％可能通过院内感染发生，而57例院内感染的人中有40例皆为医护人员。
Writing in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA), Peng Zhiyong, director of the ICU at Wuhan University's Zhongnan Hospital, said that as of January 28, 41.3% of the 138 patients in the hospital were likely to have nosocomial infections, while 40 of the 57 nosocomial infections were among medical staff.
另据广州市第一人民医院急诊科医生王西富在其个人公号展示的一张统计图，武汉当地已经有超过10家医院出现了15例以上的医护人员确诊病例，截至目前，医护人员的确诊和疑似数量已逾1000人。
According to a statistical map presented by Wang Xifu, an emergency doctor at Guangzhou First People's Hospital, Wuhan has more than 15 cases confirmed by medical personnel in more than 10 hospitals. So far, the number of confirmed and suspected cases has exceeded 1,000.
“因为要收治四类人员，现在武汉一下子涌现出很多病人，很多人没有收治进来，包括一些孤寡老人。
"Wuhan now has a large number of patients, many of whom have not been admitted, including some who are lonely and elderly.
这是一个看着很痛苦的过程，也是我们心理压力大的原因。
This is a painful process to see, but also a cause of great psychological stress.
”武汉协和医院医生郑天明带着哭腔对《中国新闻周刊》说，“医院刚开始动员内科医生，后来很多内科医生、护士倒下了，现在又在动员外科医生和护士。
"The hospital has just started to mobilize physicians, and then many physicians and nurses have fallen, and now they are mobilizing surgeons and nurses," said Dr. Zheng Tianming, a doctor at Wuhan Concorde Hospital.
”“罗马”是不到两天建成的如果没有这场疫情，武汉洪山体育馆原本应该在此时举办东京奥运会亚洲大洋洲拳击资格赛。
"Rome was built in less than two days, and had it not been for the outbreak, Wuhan Hongshan Stadium would have hosted the Asia Oceania Boxing Qualification for the Tokyo Olympic Games.
但在2月3日，洪山体育馆迎来了一次大转型。
But on February 3, Hongshan Stadium ushered in a major transformation.
来自中南建筑设计院的15人团队，对其展开了一场争分夺秒的改建。
A team of 15 people from the Central South Architectural Design Institute launched a time-consuming renovation of it.
按计划，这里要在两天后开张接纳患者。
It is planned to open its doors in two days.
由于时间太紧，他们只能“边设计，边施工，边调整”。
Because time is too tight, they can only "side design, construction, while adjusting."
2月1日，中国工程院副院长、呼吸与危重症医学专家王辰到武汉调研。
February 1, the Vice-President of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, breathing and critical medical experts Wang Chen to Wuhan to investigate.
2003年“非典”疫情期间，他担任北京防治“非典”专家组组长。
During the SARS epidemic in 2003, he was chairman of the expert group on the prevention and treatment of SARS in Beijing.
在武汉调研后，他发现大部分都是聚集性的感染，为了集中和分层收治，缓解医院和社区压力，王辰提出建“方舱医院”的建议。
After Wuhan investigation, he found that most of the infection is aggregation, in order to concentrate and stratify treatment, relieve the pressure of hospitals and communities, Wang Chen put forward the proposal to build "square cabin hospital."
公开资料显示，方舱医院装备通常由一系列具有不同医疗或技术保障功能的方舱组合而成，具有实施早期治疗的救治能力。
Open data show that the hospital equipment is usually a combination of a series of different medical or technical support functions, with the ability to carry out early treatment.
王辰介绍说，方舱医院是医疗场所，起到集中收治、隔离的效果，患者能得到基本医疗照顾。
Wang Chen said that the cabin hospital is a medical place, play a centralized treatment, isolation effect, patients can receive basic medical care.
“迅速把确诊的轻症病人都收治起来，给予医疗照顾，与家庭与社会隔离，避免造成新的传染源，至关重要。
"It is essential to treat quickly all diagnosed cases of light illness, to provide medical care, to isolate families from society and to avoid creating new sources of infection.
”改建所需的材料十分庞杂，大到电力电缆、方钢、轻型防火板，小到铁钉、螺栓、水管弯头，型号和材质各有不同，配件总数以万记，基本都需要从不同的供应商进行调货。
The materials needed for the alterations range from power cables and square steel to lightweight fire panels to nails, bolts and pipe bends, with different models and materials, and a total of 10,000 fittings, all of which require transfers from different suppliers.
在已经封城的武汉，交通管制增加了运输的难度。
In Wuhan, which has been closed down, traffic control has increased the difficulty of transportation.
方舱医院建成后，需要6台配电柜来满足三个区域所有医用设备和开关插座的用电需求，然而这种临时配置的配电柜在几乎停摆的武汉很难找到。
When completed, six distribution cabinets will be needed to meet the demand for all medical equipment and switchgear in the three regions, although the makeshift distribution cabinets are hard to find in Wuhan, where they are almost at a standstill.
从2月4日凌晨开始，负责人打遍了供应商的电话，想尽各种办法，终于在100公里外的鄂州找到了符合标准的配件，在政府的协调下，才运送到施工现场。
Beginning in the early hours of February 4, the person in charge called the supplier and did everything he could to find spare parts that met the standards in Huizhou, 100 kilometers away, before being delivered to the construction site under the coordination of the government.
武昌方舱医院的改建最终只花了36个小时。
The renovation of Wuchang Fang Cavern Hospital took only 36 hours.
建成后，医护人员立即开始进驻。
When completed, the medical staff immediately began to move in.
方舱以50个床位为一个医疗单元，这样的格局被形容为“大通铺”，不少人担心容易交叉感染。
The 50-bed cubicle is described as a "big bunk," with many worried about cross-infection.
针对这个疑问，国家卫健委后来专门出来澄清说，收治的都是确诊患者，不存在交叉感染的问题。
In response to this question, the National Health Commission later came out specifically to clarify that the patients admitted are diagnosed, there is no cross-infection problems.
此前网上流出的一张图片显示，场内原由志愿者铺设的被单五颜六色。
Previously, a picture released online showed that the floor had been paved by volunteers in colorful sheets.
志愿者退场后，湖北省肿瘤医院的20名医生齐上阵，正在匆忙套着被褥。
After the volunteers left, 20 doctors from Hubei Province Oncology Hospital rushed to cover their mattresses.
“我们肿瘤医院一共负责122张病床，为了统一色调，医院派发了200套消毒被套。
"We have a total of 122 beds in our oncology hospital, and 200 sets of sterile covers have been distributed to unify the colors.
”湖北省肿瘤医院医疗队队员谢蓉博士告诉《中国新闻周刊》，她们花了近两小时重新收拾床铺。
"It took them nearly two hours to clean up their beds," Xie Rong, a member of the Hubei Oncology Hospital Medical Team, told China News Weekly.
据谢蓉介绍，武昌方舱医院分西区、东区和地下室。
According to Xie Rong, Wuchang Fang Cathedral Hospital is divided into Western, Eastern and basement.
以东区方舱为例，又分为清洁区、半污染区、污染区和缓冲区，区与区之间用多道门隔开。
The east area square cabin for example, divides into the clean area, the semi-polluted area, the polluted area and the buffer zone.
从医护工作站所在的清洁区，经半污染区进入患者所在的污染区后，医护人员不允许再走“回头路”，而必须从另一侧通道进入缓冲区后，再回到清洁区。
From the cleanup area where the workstation is located, after the semi-polluted area enters the area where the patient is located, the paramedics are not allowed to "turn back" and must enter the buffer zone from the other side of the tunnel before returning to the cleaning area.
“2月5日上午，场馆内还什么都没有。
"On the morning of February 5, there was nothing in the venue.
到下午，已经初具医院模样了。
By the afternoon, it was beginning to look like a hospital.
”谢蓉说。
"said Xie.
当天晚间11点半，武昌方舱医院开始投入使用。
That night 11: 30, Wuchang cabin hospital began to put into use.
当时，记者在门外看到，该医院西区已经接收了第一批病人，入口处有多名保安把守，以防患者闯入。
At the time, reporters saw outside the hospital's western area has received the first group of patients, the entrance to a number of security guards to prevent patients from entering.
武昌方舱医院由“国家医疗队+武汉医疗队”主导运行，武汉大学人民医院担任队长单位，已安置床位247张，即将再设253张床位。
Wuchang Fang Hospital is headed by the National Medical Team + Wuhan Medical Team, and Wuhan University People's Hospital is the team leader.
加上正在紧急改造的床位，将持续开放至800张。
Together with the number of beds being upgraded on an emergency basis, they will remain open to 800.
依照统一安排，武昌“方舱医院”对口收治武昌区、洪山区和东湖高新区等地区的轻症确诊患者。
In accordance with the unified arrangements, Wuchang "Fang Cao Hospital" corresponding to the treatment of Wuchang District, Hongshan District and East Lake High-tech District and other areas of the confirmed patients.
2月4日，火神山收治第一批患者进入病区。
On February 4, the first group of patients was admitted to Mount Fujimori.
摄影/中青报·中青网 李峥苨在武昌方舱医院改建的同时，位于武汉国际会展中心的江汉方舱医院以及位于武汉客厅的东西湖方舱医院也在同时期改建完成。
During the same period, the Jianghan Fangkang Hospital in Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center and the East-West Lake Square Hospital in Wuhan Shopping Centre were rebuilt during the same period.
武汉某地产集团员工付安元原本参与雷神山医院的建设，2月3日下午5点多，他受命先后赶往武汉客厅和武汉国际会展中心，并接下了改建武展为方舱的任务。
Wuhan real estate group employees Fu Anyuan was originally involved in the construction of Lei Shenshan Hospital, February 3 more than 5 p.m., he was ordered to Wuhan sitting room and Wuhan International Convention and Exhibition Center, and then took over the task of rebuilding the martial arts exhibition as a square cabin.
这是付安元第一次知道“方舱”，根据命令，第二天必须建好。
This is the first time Fu An Yuan knew "square cabin", according to the order, the next day must be built.
环卫工人已经开始清场，他召集设计团队，在4日凌晨1点拟出改建方案。
Sanitary workers have begun to clean up, he called the design team, on the 4th morning at 1 a.m. to draw up a reconstruction plan.
设计方案还没形成时，承建方就开始调度材料。
When the design is not in place, the contractor begins to dispatch the material.
材料同样来自多方：桌子和板凳是武汉举办军运会后留下的，床和被褥是从江汉区调度来的，板材则是由厂家直接订货。
The materials also come from many sources: tables and benches were left by Wuhan after the holding of the military movement, beds and bedding from the Jianghan area, the plate is ordered directly by the manufacturers.
凌晨3点多，第一批材料到了，付安元临时调了200个左右的木工和电工，在六七点时做出了第一个病区样板。
At 3: 00 a.m., the first batch of materials arrived, Fu An Yuan temporarily deployed about 200 carpenters and electricians, at six or seven made the first sample of the disease area.
早上8点多，武汉地铁集团赶来支援，施工工人增至500人。
More than 8 a.m., Wuhan Metro Group came to support the construction workers increased to 500.
下午4点，所有挡板做成；晚上10点，所有开关、插座装完。
At 4 p. m., all baffles are made; at 10 pm, all switches and sockets are installed.
5日凌晨两点半，历时33小时后，他们终于完工交付。
At 2: 30 a.m. on the 5th, after 33 hours, they finally finished the delivery.
江汉方舱医院由武汉协和医院统筹，共有9家国家医疗队、6家武汉医疗队参与救治。
Jianghan Fangkang Hospital is co-ordinated by Wuhan Concorde Hospital, with nine national medical teams and six Wuhan medical teams.
《中国新闻周刊》日前探访看到，该医院除场内1600张病床外，场外也搭建起了数十顶医疗帐篷。
In addition to 1,600 beds, dozens of medical tents have been set up outside the hospital, according to a recent visit by China News Weekly.
早在此前的2月2日，火神山医院已正式交付人民军队医务工作者。
Earlier, on February 2, the hospital had been handed over to military medical workers.
6天后的2月8日，雷神山医院也完工交付使用。
Six days later, on February 8, Raytheon Hill Hospital was completed and commissioned.
截至2月10日，火神山医院已接收从武汉各家定点医院转来的患者超过800人，雷神山医院也开始接收患者，已入住80余人。
As of February 10, more than 800 patients had been transferred from Wuhan designated hospitals, and Lei Shenshan Hospital began to receive patients, more than 80 people have been admitted.
两大“神山医院”是完全新建的，医务人员也多来自外地。
The two "Shenshan hospitals" are entirely new, and most of the medical staff are from outside the country.
2月6日晚，湖北省副省长杨云彦在新闻发布会上介绍说，目前共有107支医疗队、10596名医疗队员在湖北省协助开展医疗救治工作。
On the night of February 6, Vice Governor Yang Yunyan of Hubei province told a news conference that 107 medical teams and 10,596 medical personnel were helping with medical treatment in Hubei province.
他又强调，“但医护人员仍然非常紧缺”。
"But there is still a critical shortage of medical personnel," he added.
方舱内外在武汉医疗界陷入“兵荒马乱”的时候，全国各地的医疗队一批又一批地向湖北集结。
Inside and outside the cabin in Wuhan medical circles fell into "military chaos" when medical teams from all over the country gathered in batches to Hubei.
一段视频在网上流传，山东齐鲁医院和四川华西医院的医疗队在武汉天河机场偶遇，双方隔着过道互相加油鼓劲儿。
A video spread online, Shandong Qilu Hospital and the Sichuan Huaxi Hospital medical team met in Wuhan Tianhe Airport, the two sides across the corridor refueling each other.
这两家医院素有盛名，曾在抗战时期联合办学、办医。
These two hospitals are well-known for their joint running of schools and hospitals during the Anti-Japanese War.
武汉的这场“战事”将更远的地方都裹挟进来，越来越多的医护人员投身到抗疫的洪流中，中国医疗界似乎没有谁可以完全置身事外。
Wuhan's "war" will be more distant to bring in more and more medical personnel into the flood of the epidemic, China's medical community no one seems to be completely out of the way.
宣誓、送别、出征，几天的时间，这样的场面几乎出现在中国所有大型医院的门前。
The swearing-in, the farewell, the military, in a matter of days, took place in front of almost every major hospital in China.
当方舱医院正在紧张搭建的时候，已经到达武汉的外地医护人员并没有闲着。
When the square cabin hospital was being built in a hurry, the medical staff who had arrived in Wuhan were not idle.
6日凌晨，来自新疆生产建设兵团医疗队的王一珊到达武汉，在酒店里接受培训。
Early Sunday morning, Wang Yishan, a medical team from the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, arrived in Wuhan for training.
为了减少接触，降低感染风险，医护人员都需要理发，男同志借来推子，自己剃了光头，女同志理了“毛寸”。
In order to reduce exposure and reduce the risk of infection, medical personnel need haircuts, gay men borrow push, self-shaved head, lesbians cut "hair."
有的女同事即将结婚，哭着将留了很久的长发剪断。
Some female colleagues are about to get married, crying and cutting their long long hair.
防护设备的穿脱流程复杂而严谨，而且不断在更改，医护人员需要强化训练，不能有任何岔子。
The wear and tear process of protective equipment is complex and rigorous and is constantly changing.
接触确诊患者，需要三级防护。
Three levels of protection are required for contact with confirmed patients.
对于王一珊和谢蓉这样非感染科出身的医护人员来说，这是她们第一次穿防护服。
It was the first time that doctors and nurses, such as Wang Yishan and Xie Rong, had worn protective clothing.
值班期间，医护人员不能上厕所，否则整套防护设备都失去作用。
During duty, medical staff cannot use the toilet, otherwise the entire set of protective equipment will be inoperative.
“三十多年了，我又穿上了纸尿裤。
"For more than thirty years, I put on my diapers.
”一位在武展方舱内值班的医生调侃自己说。
"said a doctor on duty at the martial arts exhibition.
方舱里的医护人员基本都会在防护服里穿一件成人纸尿裤，一名护士在值班期间实在憋不住，“解决问题”后，只能站着，不敢再坐下。
The cabin crew will basically wear a pair of adult diapers in protective clothing, a nurse on duty can not hold back, "solve the problem", can only stand, dare not sit down.
“医生在里面值班压力非常大，每班6小时，用我们外科医生话说，比站10个小时手术都累。
"Doctors are under a lot of pressure on the inside, six hours per shift, more than 10 hours of surgery, in the words of our surgeons.
”海南队副领队陈潇男对《中国新闻周刊》说。
Chen Xiao, deputy manager of the Hainan team, told China News Weekly.
再加上穿脱防护服需要排队，前后长达9个小时，基本不吃不喝。
Add to that the need to wear protective clothing queues, up to nine hours before and after, basic food and drink.
陈潇男每次在酒店看到刚轮岗回来的医护人员，一个个都耷拉个脑袋，说话的力气都没有了。
Every time Chen Xiao saw medical staff coming back from a tour of duty at the hotel, they all drooped their heads and lost all their power to speak.
体力消耗太大，有的护士出来时，吃了两份盒饭。
Some nurses eat two boxed meals when they come out.
2月8日元宵节当天，正好也是陈潇男队友的生日，下午5点照例进行的防护培训结束后，大家分好蛋糕和元宵，各自带回房间食用，避免出现感染。
On Feb. 8, the Lantern Festival coincides with Chen Xiao's male teammates' birthday. After the usual protective training at 5 pm, cake and yuanxiao were separated and brought back to their rooms to avoid infection.
医护人员已经整装待命，周边的各个街道则开始统筹协调，将轻症患者从隔离酒店转运到方舱医院。
Medical staff have been put on standby, and the surrounding streets have begun to coordinate the transfer of light patients from isolated hotels to the Fang Cao Hospital.
“应收尽收”，这是他们接到的任务。
"Receivable", this is the task they received.
放鹰台社区有4名患者被转移到了武昌方舱医院，副书记余娟后来得知，原计划是转移到另外的隔离点，半夜两三点钟才送到了方舱医院。
Four patients from Fangtai community were transferred to Wuchang Fangkang Hospital, deputy secretary Yujuan later learned that the original plan is to move to another quarantine point, two or three o'clock in the middle of the night to the cabin hospital.
街道除了负责转运患者，还要落实“全民测体温”。
In addition to the streets in charge of transferring patients, but also to implement "universal temperature measurement."
6日上午，武汉市疫情全面排查动员部署会召开，要求“举全市之力”，入户上门排查“四类人员”，争取“不落一户，不漏一人”。
On the morning of June 6, the Wuhan Municipal General Outbreak and Mobilization Conference was held, demanding that "the whole city's strength" and door-to-door inspection of "four categories of personnel," so as not to drop one house, not one leak.
这项命令由武汉市下达到各个街道，并传递到基层社区。
The order was issued from Wuhan down to the streets and to the grassroots communities.
6日下午4点钟，余娟接到了水果湖街道下来的通知，按照“全民量体温”的文件精神，他们需要入户上门，挨家排查，一共5000多户。
On the 6th, at 4 pm, Yujuan received a notice from Shuiguohu street, according to the "universal body temperature" document spirit, they need to go door-to-door, house-to-house screening, a total of more than 5,000 families.
体温超过37.3℃，是判断发热的标准。
Temperature over 37.3 ℃ is the standard for judging fever.
余娟和同事开始行动，但很快就遇到了困难。
Yu and her colleagues began to act, but they soon ran into difficulties.
恐慌心理让居民们闭户关门，担心传染，根本不愿见人。
The panic caused residents to close their doors, fear contagion and refuse to see anyone at all.
也有部分居民愿意配合社区的工作，从下午到晚上，社区完成了73户的排查。
There are also sections of the population who are willing to work with the community, with 73 households screened from the afternoon to the evening.
余娟将问题反映给了街道。
Yu Juan reflected the problem to the street.
同样的经历，各个基层社区的工作人员都遇到过。
The same experience has been experienced by staff in various grass-roots communities.
在硚口区长丰街道某社区，主任周念平要在第二天上午11点之前，和结对帮扶的下派干部一起，完成3000多户的排查，永远也填不完的报表，让他的下班时间一再延后。
In Zhangkou District Changfeng Street a community, director Zhou Nianping in the next morning before 11 a.m., and the next pair of cadres to complete more than 3,000 families, never will be able to fill out the statements, so that his work schedule has been delayed repeatedly.
方舱医院的建成多少缓解了床位的紧缺，但烦恼仍然存在。
The construction of the Fang Cavern Hospital has alleviated the shortage of beds, but there are still worries.
一位患者在方舱医院门口排了三个小时的队，患者家属回来后就在社区使劲砸门发泄不满，这让周念平感到沮丧。
A patient queued in front of the cabin hospital for three hours. When the patient's family returned, he broke down the door in the community to vent his frustration.
而在百泽社区，副主任王丽芬负责的网格有300多户居民，她需要第二天上午完成100多户的排查。
In the Baize community, where deputy director Wang Lifein heads a grid of more than 300 households, she needs to complete a list of more than 100 the next morning.
她来不及吃饭，还出现了呕吐症状。
She had no time to eat and developed vomiting symptoms.
接电话的时候，说话语气中夹杂着焦急情绪，像是变了一个人。
When answering the phone, the tone of his voice was mixed with anxiety, as if someone had changed.
余娟也有困惑。
Yu Juan also has perplexity.
新冠肺炎的诊断很难，起病轻，轻症患者甚至不发烧。
The diagnosis of new crown pneumonia is difficult, with mild cases and even mild cases without fever.
“现在全民测体温，但并不是体温正常就一定没有感染，如果不做胸部CT与核酸检测，即使是医生可能也判断不出来。
"Now the whole population has a temperature, but not the body temperature is normal it must not be infected, if not chest CT and nucleic acid testing, even doctors may not be able to judge.
”然而，现实中，也不可能对每一位武汉市民都做这样的检查。
In reality, however, it is impossible to do so for every Wuhan citizen.
但这样的思考，只能放进肚子里。
But this kind of thinking, can only put into the belly.
眼下，完成组织指派的工作才是第一位的，动作慢了，就是延误抗疫大计。
At present, the completion of the work assigned by the organization is the first, slow action, is to delay the anti-epidemic plan.
到了第二天，根据上级指示，放鹰台社区的余娟和同事改变了策略，采取线上自查与上门排查相结合的方式，利用微信群和微邻里，让居民们主动提交体温结果。
The next day, on instructions from her superiors, Yujuan and her colleagues in Fengying Eagle community changed their strategy, using a combination of online self-examination and door-to-door searches, using micro-communication groups and micro-neighborhoods to let residents submit temperature results on their own initiative.
其他社区也基本采用了这样的形式。
Other communities have largely adopted this form.
除了原有的7名工作人员，市和区里下派了一批干部，专门负责社区里的独居和空巢老人。
In addition to the original seven staff members, a number of cadres have been assigned to municipalities and districts to deal exclusively with solitary living and empty nests in the community.
诺亚方舟2月6日凌晨3点，位于洪山体育馆的武昌方舱医院迎来了医院和社区隔离点转运过来的90多名患者。
Noah's Ark February 6, at 3 a.m., Wuchang Square Hospital in Hongshan Stadium welcomed more than 90 patients transferred from hospitals and community isolation points.
为防止交叉感染，馆内的中央空调已经关闭。
The central air conditioner has been turned off to prevent cross-infection.
夜半天寒，外面又下着冬雨。
It's cold at night, and it rains outside.
几乎是同时，位于武展中心的江汉方舱医院也开始接收患者。
Almost at the same time, the Jianghan Fangkang Hospital, located in the center of the Wu exhibition, began to receive patients.
按照官方发布的收治标准，患者统一由政府组织转入方舱医院。
According to the official admission criteria, the patients were transferred from the government organization to the cabin hospital.
方舱医院只接受65岁以下、没有严重并发症的肺炎轻症患者。
Only patients under the age of 65 with mild pneumonia without serious complications are admitted to the Fang Cavern Hospital.
但由于定点医院床位太紧张，一些社区便将一些重症病人也往方舱医院送。
However, due to the tight schedule of hospital beds, some communities have also taken some seriously ill patients to the Fangcao Hospital.
当天凌晨1点，来自硚口区的确诊患者赵志国忽然接到社区电话，说方舱医院已经腾好了两张床位。
At 1: 00 a.m. that day, a confirmed patient from Zhangkou District Zhao Zhiguo suddenly received a community phone, said the cabin hospital has vacated two beds.
赵志国的情况特殊，他70岁的母亲同样感染了病毒，是重症患者，且双目失明。
Zhao Zhiguo is in a special case. His 70-year-old mother is also infected with the virus, is critically ill and is blind.
母子二人一直在家里等待，跟家属也没有隔离。
Mother and son have been waiting at home, not separated from their families.
感染之后，赵志国立刻上报到物业，但自家楼门口的“无感染门洞”标识并没有被修改。
After the infection, Zhao Zhiguo immediately reported to the property, but the "no infection door hole" sign in front of his house has not been modified.
到达方舱医院后，社区的一位工作人员建议他将母亲的年龄说低一些，病情说轻一些，赵志国不同意。
Arriving at the cabin hospital, a community worker advised him to lower his mother's age, which Zhao Zhiguo did not agree with.
他认为，母亲的病情已经属于危重症，方舱医院的条件根本无法满足其医疗需求。
He maintains that the mother's condition is already critical and that the conditions in the Fang'an Hospital simply do not meet her medical needs.
折腾到凌晨三四点，还下着雨，赵志国带着母亲离开了方舱。
It rained until three or four in the morning, and Zhao Zhiguo left the cabin with his mother.
两天之后，他终于等来了定点医院的床位，将母亲送进去，自己则住进方舱医院。
Two days later, he finally waited for the hospital bed to be booked, took his mother in and took him to the cabin hospital.
第一天早上，有人反映武昌方舱医院“没有医药，没有暖气，没有电，没有吃的”。
The first morning, someone reported that Wuchang Fang Hospital "no medicine, no heating, no electricity, no food."
对此，武汉市副市长李强对《中国新闻周刊》说：“我们按照属地管理原则，正在抓紧研究解决，相信情况很快会转入正轨。
In response, Vice Mayor Li Qiang told China News Weekly: "We are working on resolving the issue according to the principle of territorial management and believe that the situation will soon be back on track.
”李强同时强调，“方舱医院就像王辰院士说的，不是万全之策，但是个比较急、比较好的选择。
"Fang Qiang Hospital, like the academician Wang Chen, is not a panacea, but a more rapid and better choice," Li stressed.
我对这点是坚信不疑的。
I have no doubt about that.
”谢蓉说，患者入驻武昌方舱医院的头天早上，确实出现了“没人管饭”的问题。
The morning before the patient arrived at Wuchang Fang Cavern Hospital, the problem of "no one taking charge of food" did indeed arise, Xie said.
她解释说，因为患者的餐食放在清洁区，医护人员交接班时没有沟通好，未能把盒饭带进去。
She explained that because the patient's meals were in the cleaning area, the medical staff did not communicate well when handing over the meals and were unable to bring them in.
“医护人员进入污染区后，是无法走回头路的。
"There's no turning back when paramedics get into the contaminated area.
”为此他们立下规定，此后患者的盒饭都由接班医护人员带进方舱。
"They made it a rule that the patient's lunch boxes would then be brought in by the attendants.
江汉方舱医院出现了类似的状况。
A similar situation occurred at the Jianghan Fangkang Hospital.
“刚来第一天上午没发药，大家情绪比较大。
"We were in a better mood when we didn't give medicine on the first morning.
现在有吃有喝的，没有空调，但是有电热毯，不会太冷。
There is food and drink, there is no air conditioning, but there is electric blanket, will not be too cold.
”患者徐英然对《中国新闻周刊》说，下午发了药，大家心里安定了许多。
Xu Yingran, a patient, told China News Weekly that medicine had been given in the afternoon and that everyone was at ease.
在武昌方舱医院，患者之间彼此以“舱友”相称。
In Wuchang Fang Cavern Hospital, the patients and each other with "cabin friends" commensurate.
“王辰院士说方舱是一艘诺亚方舟，来这的都是避难的，舱友们患难与共。
"Academician Wang Chen said that the ark was a Noah's Ark. Those who came here were refugees.
”一位名叫黄凤英的患者如是说，尽管焦虑情绪仍然存在。
So says one patient, Huang Fengying, although anxiety remains.
患病之际，人们常常被一些寻常的事物所打动。
In times of sickness, people are often moved by common things.
黄凤英记得，省妇幼的一位姓王的主任，每次探视，都会想办法将每个病人逗得哈哈大笑。
Huang Fengying remembered that a provincial mother and child surnamed Wang director, every visit, will try to make each patient laugh.
来自山东齐鲁医院的医护人员专门编写了方言手册，减少因语言带来的交流障碍。
Medical staff from Qilu Hospital in Shandong have developed dialect manuals to reduce communication barriers caused by language.
蔓延的疫情已经造成了太多的隔阂，尤其是心理的裂隙，这同样需要弥合。
The spread of the epidemic has created too many gaps, especially psychological fissures, which also need to be bridged.
这两天，方舱医院的一些患者，已经开始跳起了广场舞。
Over the past two days, some patients at Fang Cao Hospital have begun to dance in the square.
在方舱之外，运送患者的车辆仍然在忙碌。
Outside the cabin, the vehicles carrying the patients were still busy.
王军是来自江汉区唐家墩街道的司机，这是和医护人员一样危险的工作，厚重的防护服一直穿在身上，呼出的热气在口罩上变成水，流下来。
Wang Jun, a driver from Tangjiadun Street in Jianghan, is as dangerous as a paramedic. Heavy protective clothing is worn all the time, and the exhaled heat turns into water on the mask and runs down.
唐家墩街道也是华南海鲜市场的所在地。
Tangjiadu Street is also the location of the South China seafood market.
方舱并非万全之计，新的社区隔离点还在不断增加，王军在接受采访时提到，唐家墩街道的一家酒店刚刚腾出来，而政府已经将征用的范围扩大到了部分高校的学生宿舍。
The square is not a panacea, new community isolation points are still increasing, Wang Jun said in an interview that a hotel on the streets of Tangjiatun has just been vacated, and the government has extended the requisition to student dormitories in some colleges.
疫情发生以来，王军一直在定点医院、社区隔离点和方舱医院之间往来。
Since the outbreak, the Royal Army has been moving between designated hospitals, community isolation points and cabin hospitals.
他像是一个在战场上来回穿梭的人，感受着周围人们的情绪和心理变化。
He was like a man traveling back and forth on the battlefield, feeling the emotional and psychological changes of the people around him.
有一次，他送两个轻症患者去方舱医院，一个病人说，“准备住到社区里，一直住到定点医院有床位为止。
On one occasion, he took two light patients to the cabin hospital. One patient said, "Be prepared to live in the community until the designated hospital has beds.
”另一位患者就劝他说，“这样是不对的，社区已经够辛苦了。
"Another patient advised him," It's not right, the community has worked hard enough.
”形势每天都在发生变化。
The situation is changing every day.
更加明晰的就诊流程让社区工作开始恢复秩序。
Clearer procedures have allowed community work to begin to return to order.
放鹰台社区副主任余娟对《中国新闻周刊》介绍，对于确诊和重症病人，社区上报到街道，街道上报到区，统一安排床位。
For those who are diagnosed and seriously ill, the community reports to the streets, the streets report to the districts and beds are unified, "Yu Kuan, vice-director of Fengyangtai Community, told China News Weekly.
新增的轻症患者由街道和社区安排进入方舱医院，密切接触者则被安置在社区隔离点。
New light cases were arranged by the street and the community to enter the cabin hospital, while close contacts were placed in community isolation points.
随着方舱医院和社区隔离点的扩充，基层社区的压力有望得到进一步的缓解。
As cabin hospitals and community isolation sites expand, the pressure on grass-roots communities is expected to ease further.
放鹰台社区的四名轻症病人被转移到武昌方舱医院，但那里的床位有限。
Four light cases from the Falcon Terrace community were transferred to Wuchang Fang Hospital, where beds are limited.
这两天新增的确诊患者，都被转移到了东西湖方舱医院，那里能容纳2000个床位。
The newly diagnosed patients were transferred to the East-West Lake Square Hospital, which has a capacity of 2,000 beds.
“数字上，新发病例在减少，我觉得这是一个可喜的现象。
"Numerically, the number of new cases is on the decline, and I think that's a welcome sign.
但是，发病人数前期积累的比较多，所以目前来说，从新发病的人数减少到就诊人数减少，这中间还会有一定的时间差。
However, the number of cases accumulated earlier in the period is higher, so at present, there is a time lag between the reduction in the number of new cases and the decrease in the number of visits.
”武汉协和医院感染科主任医师赵雷对《中国新闻周刊》说。
Zhao Lei, director of infection at Wuhan Concorde Hospital, told China News Weekly.
2月9日，武汉市的各个社区都接到了“死命令”，要求尽快收治所有的确诊患者和疑似病例。
On Feb. 9, communities in Wuhan received death orders to treat all patients and suspected cases as soon as possible.
在官方的描述中，“应收尽收”的行动已经进入总攻阶段。
In the official description, the "receivable" operation has entered the general offensive phase.
（应受访者要求，文中王一珊、周念平、王丽芬、余娟、王军、程天明为化名）值班编辑：石若萧推荐阅读▼全景式封面报道之二：围城之战——我们如何过关图片故事| 北京节后复工第一天暂停各类高校就业现场招聘，这届毕业生太难了。
(At the request of interviewees, Wang Yishan, Zhou Nianping, Wang Li-ping, Yu Juan, Wang Jun, Cheng Tianming as an alias.) The graduates were too difficult because of the suspension of on-the-spot recruitment for various kinds of college jobs on the first day after Beijing Festival.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
武汉会战：一场史无前例的超级行动。
Wuhan will fight: an unprecedented super operation.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "中国新闻周刊";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "武汉会战：一场史无前例的超级行动";。
Var msg _ title = & quot; Wuhan & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & quot;
var msg_desc = "伴随着火神山、雷神山医院开始收治病人，15家方舱医院陆续启动，各省医疗队开赴武汉，武汉所有确诊患者与疑似病例都将“应收尽收”。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; With the start of fire at Shen Shan and Lei Shenshan Hospital, 15 cabin hospitals have been opened, provincial medical teams have moved to Wuhan, and all confirmed and suspected cases in Wuhan will be "collected."
在人类抗击疫病的历史上，“武汉会战”已成为一场史无前例的超级行动";。
"Wuhan Conference War" has become unprecedented in human history's history of fighting epidemic diseases.
title: '全景式封面报道之二：围城之战——我们如何过关',。
Cover page 2: The War of Siege - How We Rated & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '全景式封面报道之二：围城之战——我们如何过关',。
Cover page 2: The War of Siege - How We Rated & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '图片故事| 北京节后复工第一天',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '图片故事| 北京节后复工第一天',。
AT & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '暂停各类高校就业现场招聘，这届毕业生太难了',。
A: Have you ever had a job at a college or university at the moment?
subject_name: '中国新闻周刊',。
subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="中国新闻周刊";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; by China News & quot;
