无法靠岸的「钻石公主号」。
The Princess of Diamonds, unable to land.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
人物                      。
Characters.
人物。
Characters.
最好的中文人物报道。
The best Chinese characters report.
「钻石公主号」邮轮的离岸隔离进行到第九天，已经有174人确认感染新冠肺炎，超过了日本本土的确诊感染总数，且还在增加。
On the ninth day of the "Princess Diamond" cruise, 174 people were confirmed to have contracted pneumonia, more than the total number of confirmed cases in mainland Japan, and the number is increasing.
一个突然来袭的新型病毒，一场突然降临的隔离，一艘无法靠岸的船。
A sudden new virus, a sudden quarantine, an undocked ship.
「钻石公主号」像个隐喻，它暴露了看似平滑运行的现代社会系统的脆弱。
"The Princess of Diamonds" serves as a metaphor for the fragility of a seemingly smooth-running modern social system.
文｜赖祐萱编辑｜槐杨封面｜REUTERS靠不了岸船即将靠岸，高桥想。
less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than + less than +
下船之后要去吃麦当劳、烤肉和牛肉盖浇饭。
Get off the boat and eat McDonalds, barbecue and beef to cover your meal.
自从2020年1月20日在横滨港登上「钻石公主号」，他已经在海上漂了12天。
Since boarding the Princess Diamond at Yokohama on January 20, 2020, he has been at sea for 12 days.
这是2月1日，从日本九州鹿儿岛，经停香港、越南岘港、台湾基隆港、日本冲绳，两天后，他将抵达出发地横滨港。
This is February 1, from Kyushu Kagoshima, Japan, via Hong Kong, Danang, Taiwan, Keelung, Japan, two days later, he will arrive at the port of Yokohama, the departure point.
出生30多年，第一次参加豪华邮轮旅行，更准确地说，这是他人生第一次坐邮轮出海。
More than 30 years old, he first participated in luxury cruise travel, more precisely, this is his first cruise in life.
他很兴奋，每到一处景点，都下船参加了在地的观光活动。
He was so excited that he got off the boat and took part in the sightseeing activities.
2月1日那天，邮轮在冲绳首府那霸市入港，他和船上其他乘客一起，在这里进行了一日观光游。
On Feb. 1, a cruise ship docked in Okinawa's capital, Naha, where he took a day-long sightseeing tour with other passengers.
当时，他并不知道这是未来一个月内最后一次下船。
At the time, he didn't know it would be his last in a month.
他玩得很愉快，虽然，和他同行的乘客，大部分都是看起来已经退休的老年人。
He had a good time, although most of the passengers with him were elderly people who seemed to have retired.
这天深夜，日本厚生劳动省宣布，邮轮上一名80岁香港乘客被确诊为新型冠状病毒感染者，7天前，他已经下船，但船上的人有感染的可能。
Late that night, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare announced that an 80-year-old Hong Kong passenger on a cruise ship was confirmed to be infected with the new coronary virus.
2月3日晚上8点，「钻石公主号」全力航行两天后，比计划时间提前10小时到达横滨港。
At 8pm on February 3, the Princess Diamond arrived at Yokohama harbour 10 hours ahead of schedule after two full days of sailing.
3711人本该下船，但是，高桥，还有船上所有人，都听到了广播：船不能靠岸，所有人要留在船上，接受厚生劳动省的检疫。
The men should have disembarked, but the bridge and all the people on board heard the broadcast: the boat cannot dock, and all must stay on board and be quarantined by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare.
与香港感染者密切接触的200多人将会首先接受检疫。
More than 200 people in close contact with Hong Kong infected people will be the first to be quarantined.
高桥立刻在推特上发布了这条消息：「钻石公主号」邮轮即将被隔离，在自己的名字旁，他又标记上了「On board the Diamond Princess」。
Takahashi immediately posted the message on Twitter: "The Princess Diamond" is about to be quarantined, and next to his name he marked "On board the Diamond Princess."
未来的一周，他发布了超过1500条推文，成为社交媒体上这艘邮轮信息最活跃的提供者之一。
Over the next week, he has posted more than 1,500 tweets, making him one of the most active providers of social media messages on the cruise.
「钻石公主号」由日本制造，从日本始发，是美国嘉年华邮轮集团旗下的著名品牌「公主邮轮」中最大的邮轮之一。
Made in Japan and originating in Japan, The Princess of Diamonds is one of the largest cruise ships in the prestigious "Princess Cruise" brand of the Carnival Cruise Group in the United States.
这次航行，它承载了2666名乘客和1045名船员，乘客中将近一半来自日本，其次是美国和加拿大。
It carried 2,666 passengers and 1,045 crew members, nearly half of whom were from Japan, followed by the United States and Canada.
据中国驻日本大使馆的调查，船上的中国乘客有287名，包括2名大陆乘客、260名香港乘客、20名台湾乘客和5名澳门乘客，另有20名中国船员。
According to an investigation by the Chinese Embassy in Japan, there were 287 Chinese passengers on board, including 2 mainland passengers, 260 Hong Kong passengers, 20 Taiwan passengers and 5 Macao passengers, and 20 Chinese crew members.
船不能靠岸。
The ship can't land.
尽管那位香港老人被感染的新闻已经在世界范围内蔓延，邮轮上，乘客们继续着闲适的心情，相信这种新出现的病毒与自己无关。
Although news of the Hong Kong old man being infected has spread around the world, passengers continue to feel at ease on board, convinced that the new virus has nothing to do with them.
3号下午，航行的末尾，高桥看到，有人在大厅玩游戏，有人在泳池旁的休息区打扑克、打麻将，餐厅的黄色暖光中，围坐在一起吃饭的人并没有减少，晚上8点多的表演秀，照样有人涌到现场。
At the end of the afternoon of the 3rd, Takahashi saw people playing games in the hall, playing poker and mahjong in the lounge beside the pool, the yellow warm glow of the dining room, the number of people sitting around eating together did not decrease, and the more than 8 p. m.
几乎没有人戴口罩。
Few people wear masks.
钻石公主号邮轮图源daxa_tw晚上11点，船长广播，所有乘客都必须待在房间，检疫官上船。
Diamond Princess cruise source daxa _ tw 11: 00 pm, the captain announced that all passengers must stay in the room, quarantine officers board the ship.
闲适的气氛就此消失。
The leisurely atmosphere disappeared.
第二天，检验结果出来，船上有10名确诊感染者。
The next day, tests showed that there were 10 people on board.
又一次广播，从2月5日计算，14天的隔离正式开始。
Another broadcast, calculated from February 5, officially began the 14-day isolation.
7 X 24小时最初，那种感觉算不上过分糟糕，只是有点无所事事。
7 x 24 Hours At first, it wasn't too bad it was just a bit of idleness.
「钻石公主号」邮轮的客房分为7种类型，大的有40㎡-80㎡，拥有独立阳台，小的只有14㎡。
The vessel has seven types of rooms, the first of which is 40 square metres; the second has a private balcony; and the second has only 14 square meters.
海景舱没有阳台，只有一扇小窗，可以看到外面的大海。
There is no balcony in the sea view cabin, only a small window to see the sea outside.
内舱更小，没有阳台也没有窗户，却要容纳下3、4个乘客。
The cabin was smaller, with no balcony or windows, but to accommodate three or four passengers.
高桥就住在内舱的最小房型里，每天做的事情，就是发推特，发推特。
Takahashi lives in the smallest room in the inner cabin, and what he does every day is tweeting and tweeting.
在封闭的小空间，24小时被无限拉长，晚上，他睡不着，恍惚中经常以为自己听到了来自甲板或是隔壁房间的咳嗽声。
In small enclosed spaces, the 24-hour stretch was endless, and at night he could not sleep and, in a trance, often thought he heard a cough from the deck or the next room.
一日三餐是乘客们仅有的能与人交流的时刻。
Three meals a day is the only time passengers can communicate with each other.
每天，船员们先是敲门送来一张菜单，从前菜到主食，再到甜点，一周来几乎没有重样。
Every day, the crew knocked on the door to deliver a menu that used to serve staple foods to desserts that had hardly changed in a week.
乘客可以点菜，日式、西式、中式料理几乎都能满足。
Passengers can order dishes, Japanese, Western, Chinese almost all can be satisfied.
开饭时刻，船员再次敲门，送上饭菜，荤素搭配均衡，还有水果和饮料。
At dinner time, the crew knocked on the door again, served meats, balanced vegetarian dishes, and fruits and drinks.
乘客可以借机打开门，和船员说一声「谢谢」。
Passengers can use the opportunity to open the door and say "thank you" to the crew.
船舱内的伙食图源daxa_tw但也就是这些。
The food source in the cabin, daxa _ tw But that's all.
邮轮禁止船员和乘客有更多的接触和交流。
Cruise ship forbids more contact and communication between crew and passengers.
2月5日开始，船上的所有娱乐设施，泳池、赌场、温泉、影院、歌舞秀、按摩，都关闭了，乘客们所有打发时间的活动，都只能在房间里。
Starting on 5 February, all recreational facilities on board, swimming pools, casinos, hot springs, cinemas, singing and dancing shows, massages, etc., were closed and all passengers were confined to their rooms.
帮助乘客杀时间，邮轮也想了很多办法。
Cruises have come up with a lot of ways to help passengers kill time.
隔离后，网络开始免费提供，速度时快时慢。
After the isolation, the network began to be provided free of charge, at varying speeds.
8个电视频道，60部电影，24小时随便观看，只不过大多数影片都是英语字幕，而乘客大多来自非英语国家。
Eight television channels, 60 films, 24-hour viewing, except that most of the films are captioned in English and most of the passengers are from non-English-speaking countries.
一些中年女性会选择看电视中的太极拳视频。
Some middle-aged women choose to watch taijiquan videos on TV.
每天，邮轮还给乘客发彩色的折纸和数独题卡，日本乘客更喜欢这两种游戏，有人因为某天只送来了数独题、落下了折纸，在社交媒体上发表不满。
Each day, passengers are given colorful fold-out papers and problem cards, which Japanese passengers prefer. One day, they bring only a few quizzes, drop the origami, and publish their grievances on social media.
邮轮给乘客发的数独卡图源daxa_tw隔离的时间还是显得太漫长了。
The number of unique card source daxa _ tw isolation that cruise ships send to passengers is still too long.
大卫·阿贝尔74岁，来自英国，这次登船旅行，是为了庆祝和妻子的50周年金婚。
David Abel, 74, from England, was on a boat trip to celebrate his 50th anniversary with his wife.
他每天都在Facebook上开一会儿直播，通报这艘船的隔离生活。
He goes live on Facebook every day, announcing the ship's isolation.
电视报道中，他发现一位英国乘客已经确诊感染上新冠肺炎，而他曾和确诊者同桌吃饭。
Television reports said he found a British passenger who had been diagnosed with pneumonia and who had dined with a confirmed sufferer.
自然有点担忧，但对着直播镜头，他富于教养地说，那位确诊乘客正在和新婚妻子蜜月旅行，「我想她一定非常的难过。
A little worried, of course, but to the live footage, he said genially, the confirmed passenger was on a honeymoon with his new wife. "I think she must be very upset.
」直播里，他还展示了自己的房间，拥有海景阳台的套房。
In the live broadcast, he also shows his own room with a balcony suite with a seascape.
除了直播，他能做的就是在阳台上创作，举起相机，拍下海鸥、波光粼粼上的夕阳，还有远处抵达不了的港口。
All he could do, except live, was create on the balcony, lift the camera, photograph the seagulls, the sparkling sunsets, and the distant ports.
陈日昇是一位魔术师，来自中国台湾地区，从越南上了这艘船。
Chen Sun Sun was a magician from Taiwan, China, who boarded the ship from Vietnam.
本来是开心的，他受邀而来，开始自己2020年第一场邮轮表演。
Originally happy, he was invited to begin his first cruise in 2020.
然后，隔离开始了。
And then, the isolation begins.
他住在没有阳台、只有窗户的房间，只能望见一小片大海。
He lived in a windowless room without a balcony, and could only see a little sea.
他也开了直播，说，在船上的日子并不好受。
He also had a live broadcast, saying life on the ship was not easy.
他还说，病毒不会分贫穷贵贱身份地位，会生病，就是会生病。
He added that the virus does not differentiate between poor and inferior status and can become sick or ill.
比无聊更沉重的情绪在蔓延，有人在社交媒体上说，「这就是个高级监狱」。
More than boredom is spreading, someone on social media said, "This is a high-end prison."
一艘世界顶级的豪华邮轮，陷入了7X24小时的沉默。
One of the world's top luxury cruise ships has been caught in a 7x24-hour silence.
正如高桥所见到的，船上乘客大部分是老人，其中有相当部分不使用智能手机。
As Takahashi saw, most of the passengers on board were elderly, and a significant number of them did not use smartphones.
隔离发生时，他们对外界所知不多。
When isolation occurs, they don't know much about the outside world.
但电视新闻中，船上的确诊人数一天天在增多。
But on the television news, the number of people diagnosed on board is increasing day by day.
10人，41人，65人……漂在海上，无法靠岸，恐慌和焦躁，随着时间逐渐积淀。
Ten people, 41 people, 65 people... floating in the sea, unable to dock, panic and impatience, gradually accumulated over time.
高桥还是每天发推特。
Takahashi still tweets every day.
他说，船长广播越来越频繁了，隔离第一天，广播八次，最近，已经达到了每天十数次。
He said shipmasters were broadcasting more and more frequently, eight times on the first day of isolation, and recently more than a dozen times a day.
「比起感染者们传递出来的恐慌，更严重的是无尽地待在屋子里的混乱感。
"More serious than the panic that infected people convey is the sense of chaos that goes on in the house indefinitely.
」他同意接受《人物》的采访，但记者发去的问题，他过了三天才回复。
"He agreed to be interviewed by People, but it took him three days to respond to a reporter's question.
在那个小小的、不透风的房间，他睡觉、吃饭、发推特，等待来自岸上的检疫官一批批对乘客检测。
In that small, airtight room, he slept, ate, tweeted and waited for groups of quarantine officers from shore to check on passengers.
像高桥这样住在内舱的乘客，邮轮允许他们每天到甲板上透气一小时。
Passengers in the cabin like Takahashi are allowed to take a breath on deck for an hour a day.
那一小时中，高桥会遇到别的乘客，但谁跟谁也不说话，他们谨慎地保持距离，「唯一想做的事情就是，一边走，一边大口呼吸着空气。
In that hour, Takahashi will meet other passengers, but who will not talk to anyone, careful to keep a distance, "The only thing you want to do is to walk and breathe the air.
」他对《人物》说。
"he said to People.
钻石公主号邮轮图源daxa_tw崩溃的系统另外一些人，面临比高桥严重得多的问题。
The Princess Diamond Cruise Source of the Daxa _ tw crash system Others face far more serious problems than high bridges.
药不够了。
There's not enough medicine.
你知道的，乘客中大部分是老人。
You know, most of the passengers are old people.
很多人有基础病，但随身带的药只准备到2月4日，预计到港下船的那一天。
Many people have basic illnesses, but the medicine they bring with them is only for February 4, the day when they are expected to leave the ship.
突然宣布的隔离打乱了所有人的计划，糖尿病、高血压、白内障患者开始出现停药带来的身体问题，到2月9日，已经有100多位乘客表明自己身体不适，出于跟新冠肺炎无关的疾病。
The sudden announced quarantine disrupted everyone's plans, with diabetes, hypertension and cataract patients beginning to develop physical problems caused by drug withdrawal, and by February 9 more than 100 passengers had indicated that they were not feeling well due to diseases unrelated to pneumonia.
一些人被紧急送医。
Some were rushed to hospital.
据《读卖新闻》报道，「钻石公主号」2666名乘客中，60岁以上老年人有2144人，占比高达80%。
According to the Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper, 2,144 of the 2,666 passengers aboard the Princess were over the age of 60, accounting for 80 percent of the total.
高桥也告诉《人物》，很多老人尤其是日本的老年人，不会使用最简单的翻盖手机，更不要说能够获取外部资讯的智能手机。
Takahashi also told People that many elderly people, especially in Japan, do not use the simplest flip-flops, let alone smartphones with access to external information.
日本乘客和他们的家属把希望寄托于厚生劳动省，家属们不断地给厚生省打电话求助，厚生劳动省发布了药物申请书，按照对外说法，乘客填写好信息，就可以获得药物。
The Japanese passengers and their families have placed their hopes in the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour, which has continuously called the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Labour to ask for help.
但是，实践起来并没有那么快。
But practice is not that fast.
即便填了药物申请书，隔离的5天后只有500人收到了紧急药物。
Even after filling out the drug application, only 500 people received emergency drugs five days after isolation.
愤怒在增长，2月9日，在推特搜索关键词「厚生劳动省」，后面跟着的第一个关键词是「无能」，其次是冠状病毒。
Anger is growing, and on February 9, Twitter searched for the key word "Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare," followed by the key word "incompetence," followed by the coronavirus.
中国驻日使馆送去了一些药物，收到了一封来自中国香港乘客的感谢信。
The Chinese embassy in Japan sent some medicine and received a thank-you letter from passengers from Hong Kong, China.
其他来自日本之外国家和地区的乘客还在努力找药。
Passengers from other countries and regions outside Japan are still trying to find medicine.
推特上每天都能找到大量的药物求助信息，大部分的求助来自乘客们的家人，他们通常是年轻人，为自己的父母、爷爷奶奶、叔叔阿姨求助。
Tweets are filled with drug help every day, mostly from family members, usually young people, who turn to their parents, grandparents, uncles and aunts for help.
美国佛罗里达州女孩Ashley每天都在询问各国网友，如何帮助她在船上的父母获得药。
Ashley, a Florida girl, asks netizens from around the world every day how to help her parents on board get medicine.
她想过求助于美国政府，写了邮件，但没有回复。
She thought about turning to the U.S. government for help and wrote an e-mail, but she didn't reply.
2月9日东京时间凌晨4点，她对《人物》记者说，「我已经几个小时没有联系上我的父母了，也许他们已经睡着了。
"I haven't been able to contact my parents for hours, maybe they've fallen asleep," she told People at 4 a.m. Tokyo time on Feb. 9.
关于如何获取药物没有更多信息，如果你知道什么请一定告诉我。
There is no more information about how to get drugs. If you know anything, please let me know.
」人们习惯了在现代社会系统中平滑地运转，但一个忽然出现的新病毒，一次突然降临的隔离，暴露了这一系统的脆弱。
"People get used to working smoothly in the modern social system, but a sudden new virus, a sudden quarantine, reveals the fragility of the system.
一位日本老太太举着一面日本国旗向岸边的人示意，旗子上写着「药物不足」。
An old Japanese woman held a Japanese flag and motioned to the people on the shore that it said, "There is not enough medicine."
岸上的人在白纸上写下「什么药」，对着她展开。
The man on the bank wrote on white paper "What medicine" and opened it to her.
物资调配和民众的需求，在这一刻回归了最原始的沟通。
Material deployment and the needs of the people, at this moment back to the most primitive communication.
邮轮上的乘客拿着写有「药物不足」的日本国旗图源daxa_tw对很多老人来说，船长广播通知成了获取信息的唯一渠道。
For many elderly people, the only way to get information is through the captain's radio announcement, which carries the Japanese flag source daxa _ tw, which says "There is not enough medicine."
高桥每天在推特上同步船长广播的音频。
Takahashi tweets daily to synchronize the audio broadcast by the captain.
根据邮轮公司官网发布的信息，这艘邮轮上有来自世界56个国家和地区的乘客，船长广播却只有英语和日语两种语言。
According to the official website of Cruise, the ship carries passengers from 56 countries and regions, but its captain broadcasts in only two languages, English and Japanese.
高桥觉得，这对船上很多来自非英国地区的乘客很不友好，他曾在推特上求助，希望有人帮他把广播内容翻译成中文。
Takahashi felt the pair were unfriendly to many of the non-British passengers on board and he had sought help on Twitter to have his broadcasts translated into Chinese.
还有一位日本男乘客说，每次听广播，都感觉自己在进行英语托业听力考试，非常紧张。
Another Japanese passenger said he felt very nervous about taking an English listening test every time he listened to the radio.
空间的密闭和信息的停滞，让很多乘客到达了崩溃的边缘。
Confined spaces and stagnant information have brought many passengers to the brink of collapse.
2月11日，一位日本乘客向日本政府提交了手写信，提出船上乘客的困境：床单一周未换，生活环境需要改善；需要医疗援助；信息不足；邮轮服务台对乘客需求置之不理；老人、有过往病史者没有得到良好照顾；希望日本政府开设一个乘客需求电话热线。
On 11 February, a Japanese passenger submitted a hand-written letter to the Government of Japan, citing the plight of the passengers on board: the sheets had not been changed for a week and the living environment needed to be improved; medical assistance was needed; information was insufficient; passengers' needs were ignored by cruise service desks; the elderly and those with a history of illness were not well cared for; and it was hoped that the Japanese Government would open a passenger demand telephone hotline.
而异国乘客的表达就没有那么克制了，一对美国夫妇接受美国媒体采访时呼吁，「特朗普，救救我们！」就在那天，日本内阁有议员提出，出于人道主义考虑，应让无症状乘客下船。
Foreign passengers were less restrained when an American couple called in an interview with US media, "Trump, save us!" That very day, a member of the Japanese cabinet suggested that asymptomatic passengers should be disembarked for humanitarian reasons.
但是，经过表决，这个提议被否决了。
However, the proposal was rejected by a vote.
隔离的日子，还得继续。
The days of isolation have to go on.
工作人员为船舱消毒图源daxa_tw不想跟富士山说永别Kuma是横滨一家物流公司的职员，在大黑埠码头上班。
The crew disinfects the cabin source Daxa _ tw doesn't want to say goodbye to Fuji Mountain Kuma is an employee of a Yokohama logistics company working on the docks of the big black harbor.
「钻石公主号」就停靠在那里。
That's where the Princess Diamond docked.
大黑埠码头是横滨港第一个人工岛码头，有25个大型泊位，还有日本国内最大的物流中心。
It is the first artificial island wharf in Yokohama port, with 25 large berths, as well as the largest logistics center in Japan.
紧邻的横滨港湾大桥是连接东京都圈的重要线路，许多私营企业的仓库都在这里，也就有很多像Kuma一样的工人在这里工作。
The immediate Yokohama Bridge is an important link to the Tokyo metropolitan area, where many private-sector warehouses are located and where many workers like Kuma work.
每天上班，Kuma都能看到那艘被感染、被隔离的船，离陆地并不遥远，但无法靠岸。
Every day at work, Kuma could see the infected, quarantined ship, not far from land but unable to land.
得知它将在这里停留14天，又眼见着救护车一辆辆驶过，从上面不断运送下来患者，他愤怒了。
He was outraged to learn that it would stay here for 14 days, and to see ambulances drive by, carrying patients from above.
他在推特上说，「NHK报道冠状病毒的出现将会影响（日本的）观光、经济甚至奥运会，而就在港口边上工作的这些普通劳动者的身体健康，却没有任何人关注过。
"The appearance of the coronavirus reported by the NHK will affect sightseeing, the economy and even the Olympics," he said on Twitter.
」22岁的日本女孩奈奈和家人住在横滨港附近，她正在横滨市立大学鹤见校区读书，那儿离港口也不过几公里。
The 22-year-old Japanese girl lives near Yokohama port with her family and is studying at Yokohama University, just a few kilometers from the port.
「钻石公主号」停靠横滨港后，她周围的同学和居民慌乱起来。
When the Princess Diamond docked in Yokohama, the students and residents around her panicked.
尤其2月7日厚生劳动省宣布新增41名感染者后，附近的药妆店里，口罩已经完全断货了。
Especially February 7, the Ministry of Health, Health and Labor announced the addition of 41 new infections, the nearby makeup shop, the mask has been completely out of stock.
奈奈说，她家里的口罩量只能勉强对付即将到来的花粉季节，「比起花粉，我的朋友们更担心隔离邮轮的事情。
"My friends are more worried about quarantine than pollen," she said, noting that the number of masks in her family could barely cope with the coming pollen season.
」她从没想到新冠肺炎，这个陌生的病毒，居然会离自己这么近。
"She had never thought that the new crown pneumonia, a strange virus, would be so close to her.
又觉得，「与其担心事态会不会变得更严重，不如想办法到哪里去买口罩。
"Instead of worrying about getting worse, think about where to buy a mask," he said.
」在横滨市区上班的白领星野告诉《人物》，公司同事们偶尔会讨论隔离邮轮的新闻，但都说不会太担忧。
A white-collar star working in downtown Yokohama told PEOPLE that company colleagues occasionally discussed the news of the cruise ship, but said they were not too worried.
街上戴口罩的人似乎有所增多，不过，他特意说明，不能确定就是因为那艘邮轮，「毕竟日本人平时戴口罩的也不在少数，而且我们这里离横滨港还有一段距离。
There seems to be an increase in the number of people wearing masks on the streets, but he made it clear that it was not certain that it was the ship. "After all, the Japanese usually wear masks and we are some way from Yokohama.
大多数人相信，病毒并不会传播到这里。
Most people believe that the virus does not spread here.
」病毒就像一颗炸弹投在了「钻石公主号」上，产生的冲击犹如涟漪，从船向外一层一层地延伸，随着距离拉长而逐渐减弱，但并未平息。
The virus, which was dropped like a bomb on the Princess of Diamonds, caused ripples that rippled from side to side, tapering off as the distance lengthened, but did not subside.
一位独自旅行的乘客在社交媒体上说，自己已经达到极限。
One passenger traveling alone said on social media that he had reached his limits.
她住在有窗的房间，但每天一早醒来，透过窗户望出去，除了隔开船和陆地的海水，就是穿着防护服的检疫官、自卫队和救护车。
She lived in a windowless room, but woke up every morning and looked out the window, except for the water separating the ship from the land, the quarantine officer in protective clothing, the self-defense force and the ambulance.
靠在岸边的救护车图源daxa_tw邮轮广播说，停靠的救护车不代表什么，只是为了随时的意外做准备。
The ambulance that docked on the shore, Daxa _ tw, said the ambulance did not represent anything, only to be prepared for unexpected events at any time.
但这起不到安慰的效果。
But this does not have a soothing effect.
新冠病毒阳性反应的乘客数每天都在增长，数字一天比一天更显惊悚。
The number of new-crown-positive passengers is increasing every day, and the numbers are getting more frightening every day.
截至2月12日，船上一共检疫了492人，累计确诊感染者达到174人，确诊比例达到35%，其中一名感染者是上船检查乘客的检疫官。
As of February 12, 492 people had been quarantined on board, with a cumulative total of 174 confirmed cases, or 35 per cent.
厚生劳动省说，这位检疫官在2月3号上船，前两天工作时他戴了口罩和手套，没有穿防护服和护目镜；后面两天的工作中，他偶尔没有戴口罩——这个例子又增加了恐慌。
The ministry said the quarantine official boarded the ship on February 3, wearing masks and gloves and wearing no protective clothing and goggles during the first two days of work, and occasionally wearing no face masks during the next two days of work - an example that added to the panic.
2月13日，船上有一名女性和她的孩子确认被感染。
On 13 February, a woman and her child on board were confirmed to be infected.
这是日本首次有母子同时被感染的案例。
This is the first case of a mother-and-child infection in Japan.
这位女性已经怀孕15周，这也是日本首次有孕妇被感染。
The woman is 15 weeks pregnant, the first time a pregnant woman has been infected in Japan.
「钻石公主号」上的确诊人数已经超过了日本本土的确诊感染总数，且人数还在不断增加，这让它的情况显得越来越棘手。
The number of confirmed cases on the Princess Diamond already exceeds the total number of confirmed cases in Japan and is increasing, making it all the more difficult.
新冠肺炎的疫情还在延续，像公主号这样无岸可靠、漂泊在海上的邮轮还有很多。
The New Crown Pneumonia epidemic continues, and there are many more unsuspecting cruise ships, such as the Princess, adrift at sea.
中国香港一艘名为「世界梦号」的邮轮，因为曾搭载8名确诊新冠肺炎的乘客，在岸边停靠、隔离了4天，直到2月9日，香港方面宣布船上人员检测结果均为阴性，3600余名乘客和船员才全部下船。
Hong Kong, China, a cruise ship called the World Dream, docked and quarantined for four days with eight passengers diagnosed with pneumonia until February 9, when it was announced that the results of tests on board were negative and more than 3,600 passengers and crew had disembarked.
载着2200多人的「威士特丹号」更不幸，尽管船上无人确认感染病毒，它还是被好几个国家及地区以防疫为由拒绝入境，辗转日本、台湾、关岛、菲律宾、泰国，在海上漂了整整两周，直到2月13日，才在柬埔寨靠岸。
Worse still, though none of the more than 2,200 people on board the ship was confirmed to have contracted the virus, it was refused entry by several countries and regions on epidemic grounds, and floated over Japan, Taiwan, Guam, the Philippines and Thailand for two full weeks before landing in Cambodia on February 13.
邮轮已经成为这场疫情战争中无法被忽视的危险之处。
Cruises have become a danger that cannot be ignored in the war of the epidemic.
一旦发现感染者，所有人都会被困在由几千个格子房间组成的庞大密闭空间，无处可逃，只能在隔离中等待检疫。
Once found, everyone is trapped in a vast enclosed space of thousands of cubicle rooms with nowhere to escape but to wait for quarantine in isolation.
「钻石公主号」一位印度船员接受日本媒体采访时说，现在谁也不能离开这艘船，自己什么时候会被感染也不知道。
In an interview with Japanese media, an Indian crew member of the Princess of Diamonds told Japanese media that no one can leave the ship now, and no one knows when he will be infected.
船员曾经是他梦想的职业，他说，等到梦想实现了，却发现是个噩梦。
Sailors used to be his dream job, he said, and when it did, it turned out to be a nightmare.
2月11日，在那个「让无症状乘客下船」的提议被否决后，日本政府表示，会开始探讨新的解决方案：能否让老年人、患有疾病的乘客等病毒易感人群提前下船，在日本境内医院进行隔离观察。
On February 11, after the proposal to "disembark asymptomatic passengers" was rejected, the Japanese government said it would start exploring new solutions: whether elderly people, sick passengers and other susceptible groups could disembark early and be quarantined at hospitals in Japan.
还有医生认为，隔离是错误的，因为已经发生了集体传染，如果让乘客早点回家，就不会发生这种情况，检疫反而令传染扩大了。
Others argue that isolation is wrong, because there has been a collective infection, which would not have happened if passengers had been allowed home earlier, and quarantine has only increased the spread of the infection.
2月13日中午，厚生劳动省大臣加藤胜信在记者会上称，患病者以及80岁以上的高龄者新冠肺炎检测呈阴性的，明天，也就是2月14日可以开始下船。
At noon on February 13, Health, Labour and Welfare Minister Kato Shengxin said at a press conference that people with illness and senior citizens over 80 who are negative for the new crown pneumonia could start getting off the ship tomorrow, Feb. 14.
邮轮公司说，如果不出意外，隔离将会在19日结束。
Cruise said if nothing happened, the quarantine would end on the 19th.
「钻石公主号」，目前依然无法靠岸。
The Princess of Diamonds is still unable to land.
有位来自日本的女性乘客，本是和朋友一块乘邮轮出来玩，隔离期间，他们虽然在一艘船上，却只能通过网络交流。
A woman passenger from Japan, who had come out on a cruise with a friend, had to communicate via the Internet while they were on board a ship.
在社交媒体上，她名叫「被囚禁的公主」，她说，她喜欢站在阳台边上，那里能够看见夕阳的暖光打在富士山顶的皑皑白雪上，也能够看见车辆一刻不停地在横滨港湾大桥穿梭。
On social media, her name is "imprisoned princess," she said, who likes to stand on the edge of the balcony, where she can see the warm rays of the sun on the snow at the top of Mount Fuji, as well as cars shuttling around the Yokohama Bay Bridge.
她想，「这是与富士山暂时的别离。
"This is a temporary departure from Mount Fuji," she thought.
可我不想跟富士山说永别啊。
But I don't want to say goodbye to Fuji Mountain.
」（受访者均为化名）没看够？长按二维码关注《人物》微信公号更多精彩的故事在等着你。
"(Respondents are aliases) Not enough? There are more exciting stories waiting for you to focus on People in two dimensions.
人物记者。
Character journalist.
信扫一扫赞赏作者。
The letter swept over the author.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
无法靠岸的「钻石公主号」。
The Princess of Diamonds, unable to land.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "社会新闻";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var nickname = "人物";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "无法靠岸的「钻石公主号」";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_desc = "一场豪华邮轮旅行，变成了至今仍在延续的噩梦。
var msg _ desc = & quot; a luxury cruise that turned into a nightmare that continues today.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="人物";。
Valle = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
