在人间丨一个武汉志愿者的焦灼：孕妇就诊流程到底是怎样的？。
Worry in the World, a Volunteer in Wuhan: What is the procedure for pregnant women to see a doctor?
黄昕宇。
Huang Xinyu.
在人间living                      。
Living on earth.
在人间living。
Living on earth.
用冷静的叙述抵抗冰冷 | 凤凰网在人间工作室出品。
Resist cold & # # 124; & # 45; Order of the Phoenix with a sober narrative.
凤凰新闻客户端 凤凰网在人间工作室出品1月22日，有一个叫卓明灾害信息服务中心的团队成立了nCoV志愿者联盟，发起人是我的朋友。
Phoenix News client-side Phoenix Internet production studio January 22, a team called Zhuo Ming Disaster Information Service Center set up the nCoV Volunteer League, the founder of my friends.
在这个大志愿者联盟里，有300多个在线医生，组成了一个综合各科在线治疗的团队；微信群里有两三百个做心理支持的社工和咨询师，还有负责搜索信息、物资对接、协调管理的志愿者团队。
There are more than 300 online doctors in this large volunteer association, forming an online treatment team of integrated sections; there are two or three hundred social workers and counsellors for psychological support in the micro-group, as well as a volunteer team responsible for searching for information, docking and coordinating management.
我在23号加入，做心理支持。
I joined you on the 23rd for psychological support.
根据以往的救灾经验，我知道心理支持应该放在靠后阶段，当前任务是紧急救援。
Based on previous experience in disaster relief, I know that psychological support should be at a later stage and that the immediate task is emergency relief.
我发现孕妇这个特殊群体急需帮助，就成立了专门救助孕妇的团队。
I found that pregnant women, a special group in need of help, set up a special team to help pregnant women.
我们孕妇团队差不多有四五十人。
We have a pregnant women's team of almost forty or fifty.
我们和孕妇、医护人员都在一个大群里。
We're in the same group as pregnant women and paramedics.
有一个信息组，专门收集跟孕妇有关的就医、就诊资料。
There is an information unit that collects information on medical treatment and consultation related to pregnant women.
各个医院的床位信息，我们两天一更新。
Bedspace information for each hospital, we update it every two days.
这个过程很难，因为很多电话都打不通。
The process was difficult because many of the calls could not be made.
此外，我们还分别设了临产群、药物群、非感染孕妇群这样的小群，孕妇们也会在里面互助，共享信息。
We also have small groups of expectant mothers, drug groups, and non-infected pregnant women, who help each other and share information.
在线医疗支持起的作用是非常大的。
The role of online medical support is enormous.
比如说谁拍了片子发过来，我们马上转给医生看，医护群里有呼吸、重症、感染、心脏……各个科室的医生，同时看片子，综合会诊。
For example, who made the film, we immediately transferred to the doctor to see, there are breathing, serious illness, infection, heart... doctors in various departments, see films, comprehensive consultation.
这个结果反馈给病患的速度比他在医院排半天队快很多。
The results fed back to the patient much faster than he had queued up at the hospital for half a day.
医生在线跟病人沟通时，是有情感联结的，是可以加油鼓劲的，对于孕妇和很多重症病患，能给到很多心理上的安慰和支持。
When a doctor communicates with a patient online, he or she is emotionally connected, energizing, and provides a lot of psychological comfort and support to pregnant women and many seriously ill patients.
1月28日，武汉卫健委下发文件《关于做好新冠肺炎疫情期间特殊病人医疗保障工作的通知》，指定了四家接受确诊和疑似孕产妇病人的定点医院。
On January 28, Wuhan Fitness and Health Commission issued the document "Notice on medical security work for special patients during the outbreak of new crown pneumonia," and designated four designated hospitals for confirmed and suspected maternal patients.
但不是一纸文件指定下来就行的，医院需要有条件的产房能做手术，需要有隔离病房，要有足够的防护物资。
But not a paper designated to do so, the hospital needs the conditions of the maternity room can do surgery, the need for isolation rooms, adequate protective materials.
文件下来后，我们志愿者打电话过去，四家定点医院里，三家明确答复不收，没有条件。
After the documents came down, our volunteers called, four of the designated hospitals, three of the definite answers do not accept, no conditions.
只有协和西院说，他们收，但是必须等病房改造完。
Only the Concorde West Court said they accepted, but had to wait until the wards were renovated.
协和西已经很负责任，收过很多孕妇了。
Concorde has been very responsible, receiving a lot of pregnant women.
他们的床位非常紧张，而且那些天他们的物资一直被卡，一直是紧缺状态。
Their beds are tight, and their supplies have been stuck in a tight spot for days.
你让医护人员怎么面对这些问题？可是孕妇和家属没法理解医护人员的状况。
How do you ask health care workers to deal with these problems? But pregnant women and their families don't understand the health care providers.
她们发着烧，即将临产，随时担心肚子里的胎儿有生命危险，谁来理解她们呢？她们遇到的状况就是到处被拒收。
Who understands that they are burning and about to give birth, ready to fear for the lives of their unborn children? The situation they encounter is that they are rejected everywhere.
我们团队很多人是做心理支持的，不过现在都在做什么？都在寻医问药。
A lot of people on our team do psychological support, but what are they doing now? They're asking for medicine.
找床位是我们工作里非常重要的一部分。
Finding beds is a very important part of our work.
对于情况紧急的孕妇家庭来说，你让他们几十个电话一个个打，还打不通，他们会很绝望。
For the families of pregnant women in emergency situations, you leave them with dozens of phone calls, unable to get through, and desperate.
我们这么多人来帮忙，就会容易一点儿。
It would be easier for us to help with so many people.
我们在沟通表达上也有经验，知道怎么突出重点、清晰地介绍病情，用我们的话术在他们和社区、医院的沟通中起润滑剂和桥梁的作用。
We also have experience in communication and communication. We know how to focus, communicate clearly, and use our words as a lubricant and bridge between them and their communities and hospitals.
他们本来很孤单，感觉这个家庭被抛弃了，到处求医无门。
They were lonely and felt that the family had been abandoned and had nowhere else to turn.
现在看到有我们，有人在陪伴他们，心理上也会缓解很多。
Now to see us, someone in their company, the psychological will also ease a lot.
他们就可以重新恢复能力，积极地找办法，而不至于越来越无力。
They will be able to regain their ability to actively seek solutions without becoming increasingly powerless.
1月31日，一个马上要生的感染孕妇联系到我们，情况很危急。
On 31 January, we were contacted by a pregnant woman who was about to give birth, and the situation was critical.
我们直接对接协和西院。
We docked the Concorde Ward directly.
医院告诉我，病产房还没改造好，再过一两天改造好了就能收。
The hospital told me that the maternity ward had not been renovated and would be ready in a day or two.
当时我得到消息，很多防护物资那天晚上到达武汉，会送到医院。
I received word that many protective materials would arrive in Wuhan that night and would be sent to the hospital.
第二天我就让这两口子去协和。
The next day I sent the couple to Concorde.
那时他们已经跑了好几趟医院，经历了到医院被拒收，打120总是打不通，没车回家的状况，非常绝望，不想再打120了。
They had been to the hospital several times, had been refused access to the hospital, called 120 is always blocked, no car to go home, very desperate, do not want to call 120.
我跟他们发脾气，逼着他们打120。
I lost my temper with them and forced them to hit 120.
运气很好，120打通了，把他们送过去，病房又正好改造好，夫妻两个人都住进去了，顺利生下来一个7斤男孩。
Luckily, 120 hit, sent them to the ward just right, the husband and wife both live in, the smooth birth of a 7 jin boy.
这是个喜讯啊。
That's good news.
有了这个成功案例，是不是说明以后大家都能去协和西？我跟市妇联、省妇联联络，大家都在上报这个流程。
With this successful case, is it clear that everyone will be able to go to Concorde in the future? I contact the FMC and the provincial women's federations, and everyone is reporting the process.
结果再来一个危急孕妇，你发现还是不行，这个通道仍然没有打通。
And then there's another critical pregnant woman, And you still can't find it. It's still open.
2月3日晚上9点多钟，一位黄陂孕妇的丈夫加我微信。
February 3, more than 9: 00 p.m., a Huangpi pregnant woman's husband and I micro-letter.
他老婆怀孕34周，发烧38.4度，已经连续发烧十几天，气喘一天比一天严重，是高度疑似病患。
His wife was 34 weeks pregnant and had a fever of 38.4 degrees. She had a fever for more than 10 days.
我立刻开始帮她联系医院，同时找在线产妇科医生。
I started contacting the hospital right away and looking for an online obstetrician.
医生认为，孕妇高热本身就很容易导致胎儿窒息，需要紧急就医。
Doctors believe that high fever in pregnant women itself can easily lead to fetal asphyxia, requiring urgent medical attention.
她怀孕34周，虽然胎儿成形了，但还是偏小，可能早产，状况危急。
She was 34 weeks pregnant and although the foetus was shaped, it was still too small and could have given birth prematurely and in critical condition.
这对夫妻要跑医院，又没有车。
The couple had to run to the hospital without a car.
他们家一个能跑车的朋友冒险一趟趟送他们去医院。
A friend of his family who could run a sports car ventured out to take them to the hospital.
他们联系我们之前，先去了黄陂人民医院，医院拒收。
Before they contact us, they went to Huangpi People's Hospital, which refused to accept it.
他们又去湖北省人民医院东院，要求必须有黄陂人民医院开的转院证明。
They also went to Hubei Provincial People's Hospital East Hospital, the request must have Huangpi People's Hospital opened a transfer certificate.
但是他们没在黄陂住院呀，人家怎么开转院证明？事实上，人民东院也没有病床。
But they are not in Huangpi hospital, how do people open transfer certificate? In fact, the people's east hospital also has no beds.
4号凌晨他们又去中南医院，在那儿做了核酸检测，要等两三天才能出结果。
In the early morning of the 4th they went to Zhongnan Hospital, where they had a nucleic acid test and waited two or three days for the results to come.
中南医院不是定点医院，也不收治。
Zhongnan Hospital is not a designated hospital, nor does it accept treatment.
到4号早上，我们打通了协和西院的电话，医院说这种情况是收的。
By the morning of the fourth, we had been able to call the Concorde West Court, which the hospital said was in.
我赶紧让他们去，结果还是不收。
I hastened to let them go, only to refuse.
我觉得不收是因为没有病床，产房没有改造完，医生的防护装备也不够。
I don't think it's because there are no beds, the maternity ward has not been renovated and the doctor's protective equipment is inadequate.
更重要的是，那时她还没有确诊，还在等核酸检测结果。
More importantly, she had not been diagnosed and was still waiting for the nucleic acid test results.
可是她产程很紧急，怎么办呢？4号那天我还接到一例。
But what about the urgency of her labor? I got one on the 4th.
孕妇怀孕39周，已经见红了。
Pregnant women are 39 weeks pregnant and are red.
她不发热，只是有点咳嗽，在省妇幼医院做了CT，显示可能有点感染。
She did not have fever, just a little cough, in the provincial maternity and child care hospital made CT, showing a possible infection.
省妇幼不是定点医院，很明确地告诉她不能收治，即使核酸检测出来是阴性也不能收。
The provincial mother and child were not designated hospitals and were told very clearly that they could not be admitted, even if the nucleic acids were negative.
她问了中南医院，不收。
She asked Zhongnan Hospital. No.
又问了人民东院，人民东院说她是轻症，不收，害怕她进去以后被感染得更严重，而且也没有床位。
She was also asked about the People's East House, which said that she was suffering from a mild illness, did not accept it, fearing that she would become more seriously infected when she entered and that there were no beds.
可她39周见红了啊，如果宫缩再强烈一些怎么办？她去省妇幼的路上，我就找正在接受隔离的一个产科副主任在线跟她沟通。
What if the contractions were stronger? On her way to save the mother and the child, I contacted an assistant obstetrician director who was being quarantined online.
医生告诉她，见红的情况下，可能三天内生，也可能一个星期才生，别着急，一直努力稳定她的情绪。
The doctor told her that if she saw red, she might be born in three days or a week.
可如果她就当晚要生呢？她没有确诊，哪个医院收她？我从救助第一个孕妇开始，就发现整个就诊流程如此混乱。
But what if she had to give birth that night? She wasn't diagnosed. Which hospital took her? I found the entire procedure so confusing from the moment I rescued the first pregnant woman.
我面对一堆医院，到底打哪个电话？我查了一堆文件，有针对性地打，发现没有一家医院改造好。
I looked up a pile of papers, hit them in a targeted way, and found that none of the hospitals had been reconstructed.
我再问医院，怎么才能收治？他们说，必须确诊。
I asked the hospital again, how could I be admitted? They said the diagnosis must be made.
那什么是确诊？你得照CT、做血检，CT确诊显示是疑似，然后做核酸检测。
What is a diagnosis? You have to take a CT, a blood test, CT diagnosis is suspected, and then do a nucleic acid test.
好，我们查出能做核酸检测的医院，又告诉你没有试剂盒，得排队等。
Okay, we found a hospital that could do nucleic acid tests, And we told you there was no test kit, And we had to wait in line.
做完检测你还要等上一两天才出结果。
You'll have to wait a day or two for the results to come out.
可是孕妇已经胎动减少，胎儿可能很危险，她怎么等呢？4号那天，那两个紧急案例一直解决不了。
But how could she wait for the fetus, which had already decreased and could be dangerous, to resolve the two urgent cases on the 4th day.
我太着急了，给省妇联打了好多电话，把情况丢过去，他们也急了。
I was in such a hurry that I made a lot of phone calls to the provincial federation and threw the situation over. They were anxious too.
他们自己也接到好多求救，一直在协调社区，社区也没有办法。
They themselves received many calls for help, have been coordinating the community, there is no way the community.
那天我电话里就直接说，孕妇的就诊流程到底是怎样呢？如果你们不能确定一个明确能收疑似或者感染孕妇的医院，这条通道永远打不开。
I was on the phone the other day and I said, 'What's the procedure for pregnant women? If you can't identify a hospital where pregnant women are definitely suspected or infected, this access will never open.
永远都在一个一个救，救不过来的，遇上棘手的怎么办？孕妇的就诊流程其实很快大家都知道：先做血检、CT，CT显示感染后做核酸检测，核酸检测呈阳性确诊，然后联系医院。
Always in a rescue, can not save, encounter troublesome how to do? Pregnant women's clinical procedures in fact, we all know: first blood test, CT, CT showed after infection nucleic acid test, positive diagnosis of nucleic acid, and then contact the hospital.
但问题就卡在确诊上。
But the problem is with the diagnosis.
政策是核酸检测确诊才能进定点医院。
The policy is to identify nucleic acid testing before admission to designated hospitals.
但凡CT有一点感染症状，一个普通的省妇幼、市妇幼怎么敢收治呢？而很多人CT显示感染，但核酸检测是阴性，没法确诊，又不能进定点医院，就没有医院收了。
But how can a normal provincial mother, child, and city mother and child receive treatment if there is a little infection on CT? And many people show infection on CT, but the nucleic acid test is negative and cannot be confirmed, and cannot be admitted to the designated hospital, there is no hospital.
你只好再跑一次核酸检测，再等结果，前前后后就得将近10天。
You have to run another nucleic acid test and wait for the results, which will take nearly 10 days.
这些疑似或确诊孕妇家庭可能没有车，大老远跑去医院，不能救治，又跑去另一家医院。
The families of these suspected or confirmed pregnant women may not have a car, run all the way to the hospital, can not be treated, and then run to another hospital.
这样一来感染源不是一直在移动吗？有的患者家属看起来还是健康的，可你让他一遍遍跑，过程中不会被感染吗？有时我们接到求助，让孕妇拿胸片给在线医生看，明确是感染的。
So isn't the source of the infection moving all the time? Some of the patients' families look healthy, but do you let him run over and over again without getting infected? Sometimes we get help getting a chest film from a pregnant woman to an online doctor, and it's definitely infected.
再一问，她老公也是疑似，家里好几个人都有咳嗽发烧症状。
Again, her husband is suspected, several people in the family have cough fever symptoms.
床位不够，病人太多。
There are too many beds and too many patients.
那时政府让人居家隔离，但没有提供任何消毒措施和隔离指导措施。
At the time, the government placed people in isolation, but did not provide any disinfection measures or guidelines for isolation.
普通人怎么会有经验做居家隔离呢？最多戴口罩，如何保证和家人百分百没有接触？这往往造成家庭聚集性感染。
How can ordinary people experience household isolation? Most wear masks, how to ensure 100% contact with their families? This often results in family-focused infections.
一旦他们发烧、咳嗽，一定又得跑去医院，来回跑确诊流程。
Once they have a fever and cough, they must run to the hospital again, back and forth to confirm the process.
交叉感染数字会越来越高。
The number of cross-infections will increase.
感染孕妇走完确诊这一步又怎么样呢？找到医院，说你还没有破水，还没有到最紧急的程度，我不能收你。
What happens when an infected pregnant woman finishes her diagnosis? Go to the hospital and say you haven't broken the water yet. I can't take you there.
医院也没有办法，他们就是没有床位，没有防护物资和设备，这不是医院的问题。
Hospitals have no choice but to have no beds, no protective materials and equipment, and this is not a hospital problem.
医护人员已经是用命在拼了。
The paramedics are already fighting for their lives.
我这边接到好几个危急情况。
There are several emergencies on my side.
怀孕三十八九周，连续长时间高烧，肚子疼，还有见红的。
Thirty-nine weeks of pregnancy, continuous high fever, abdominal pain, and see red.
这种状况平时你去任何一家医院，马上就急诊留院观察，看几天要生了。
This situation usually you go to any hospital, on the emergency stay in the hospital observation, to see a few days to give birth.
现在没有，医院让你做个胎心监护，说还算正常，你回家等着吧。
Now no, the hospital let you do a fetal monitoring, said it is normal, you go home to wait.
志愿者只能一个一个医院打电话去碰，看哪个医院正好有产房又有病床，而且你又有检测结果了，把你加进去。
Volunteers can only touch one hospital at a time, to see which hospital has a maternity ward and a bed, and you have the test results, add you.
那几天能被医院收治，真的是碰运气。
It was a stroke of luck to be admitted to the hospital for a few days.
我真的很想停下来这种一个一个救的办法。
I really want to stop this one-by-one approach.
我当时就想，孕妇是非常特殊的群体，是不是应该有个优先通道？疑似孕妇能不能不用核酸检测，就用CT直接确诊？指定了定点医院，是不是可以留一些床位给疑似和确诊的孕产妇？但我说这个话的时候，自己都觉得，怎么能这样？人的生命不都一样吗？你说老人，不重要不危急吗？可孕妇真的是一个特殊群体，而医疗资源和就诊体系就是紧张、混乱到了这个程度，我真的很为难。
I was thinking, pregnant women are a very special group, should there be a priority access? Suspected pregnant women can be diagnosed directly with CT without Nucleic acid testing? But I said this, I think, can not be the same? Old people, not important not critical? But pregnant women are a special group, and the medical resources and the system is so tense and chaotic, I am really embarrassed.
2月4号那天，我从早晨7点钟到晚上，手机就没有放下来，连吃饭都拿着，随时等消息，不断地联系。
On February 4, I didn't put my cell phone down from 7 a.m. to night. I kept in touch with each other while I ate and waited for news.
一整天下来，那两个孕妇还是进不了医院。
The two pregnant women still couldn't get to the hospital all day.
我真的很绝望。
I'm really desperate.
孕妇家属也很绝望。
The families of pregnant women are desperate.
这时候你怎么可能给他们做心理疏导呢？我自己平时也做正念练习，但那天我看网上好多团队要指导病患家庭做正念练习，我真的想骂人——他老婆发着高烧，气都喘不上来了。
I do some mindfulness exercises myself, but the other day I watched many teams on the Internet try to instruct their families to do mindfulness exercises. I really wanted to swear - his wife had a high fever and couldn't breathe.
我觉得自己在心理救援、危急干预上算老手了。
I feel like I'm an old hand in psychological rescue and crisis intervention.
2008年地震救援，还有日常很多自杀干预、重度抑郁症干预，我都没有过这回那么强的无力感。
2008 earthquake relief, as well as many daily suicide interventions, severe depression intervention, I did not have this strong sense of powerlessness.
2008年地震，你身边一个个还活蹦乱跳的人，突然死了，这是巨大的一个冲击。
The earthquake in 2008, you still around a person alive, suddenly died, this is a huge impact.
他们很绝望，在求救，但同时也能看到非常多的资源、物资和队伍进来帮助他们。
Despairing, they are calling for help, but can also see a lot of resources, supplies and troops coming in to help them.
这回疫情，病人在求救的过程中觉得自己被放弃了。
This time around, the patient felt abandoned in the process of crying out for help.
病患面对的整个体系非常混乱，他们感觉不到社会的支持。
The entire system that patients face is so chaotic that they do not feel supported by society.
防护物资都给到医院，这是大家都能理解的。
It is understandable that all the protective materials are given to the hospital.
但是日常生活和出行能保障吗？交通都停了。
But can the daily life and travel be guaranteed? The traffic has stopped.
大家能理解，这是为了不让我们出去传染给别人。
As you can understand, this is to keep us from infecting others.
可是我们得去医院，得生存啊。
But we have to go to the hospital. we have to survive.
你说社区提供车辆，可我排不上队，难道我在家等死吗？然后我到了医院，也没给我药，也没有打针。
You said the community provided vehicles, but I couldn't make it to the queue. Am I at home waiting to die? Then I went to the hospital without giving me any medicine or shots.
我CT显示感染成这样了，去排队做核酸测试，又拿不到试剂盒。
I showed this infection on CT, lined up for a nucleic acid test, and couldn't get the kit.
好不容易测试完了，我还是迟迟不能入院。
After all that testing, I was late getting into the hospital.
那种步步维艰的感觉真的让人很绝望。
The feeling of difficulty is really desperate.
有的家庭已经死了一个人，他们产生的那种恐慌是，“我没办法帮到他，他死了，那下一个会是我吗？”你看着身边的家人病了，你也去医院了，该打的电话都打了，甚至平时不做的事都做了，不找的人都找了——没有用，你就看着这个人一天天不行，到最后去世。
I can't help him, he's dead, will the next one be meYou watch your family get sick, you go to the hospital, you call the phone, you do everything you don't do, it's no use, and you watch this person go from bad to worse until you die.
而且不是一个人，是家里面一个接一个。
And it's not just a person, it's home one after another.
这给人带来的创伤太大了。
The trauma of this is too great.
他们会觉得很恐慌、悲伤、绝望，甚至愤怒。
They may feel panic, sadness, despair, or even anger.
我们很多志愿者都会被带到这种绝望的情绪里。
Many of us volunteers are brought into this state of despair.
有的志愿者在线上救援时，求救的人马上呼吸就要衰竭了，你一边指导他，鼓励他，一边一群人急着叫120。
Some volunteer online rescue, the person on the verge of respiratory failure, you guide him, encourage him, while a group of people anxious to call 120.
车还没叫到，你眼睁睁地看着他就不行了。
The car hasn't arrived yet. You can't just watch him.
一个没见过的人，隔着这么远向你求救，这个人说没就没了。
A person who has not seen you, across the so far to you for help, this person said no is gone.
可是没了之后呢？家属也没有悼念的过程，自己又需要被隔离。
But after? The family also did not mourn the process, their own need to be isolated.
这种哀伤和创伤真的很强烈。
The sadness and trauma are really strong.
现在还是应激状态，要看疫情过后的恢复了。
It's still a stress state, depending on the recovery from the outbreak.
好多志愿者夜里跟我说，好难受啊。
A lot of volunteers told me at night, how hard it is.
我特别心疼那些一腔热情又没什么经验的年轻志愿者。
I am especially fond of young volunteers who are passionate and inexperienced.
有一天，我都跟团队里亲近的朋友发脾气。
One day, I had a tantrum with a close friend on the team.
我说你让这样一群年轻人来做这件事，你真的很不负责任。
I said it was irresponsible of you to let such a group of young people do it.
我自己有时候哭一场，第二天还能再振作。
I cried myself sometimes and was able to pick myself up again the next day.
可他们没有受过训练，这可能会给他们带来很大创伤。
But they are not trained, which can be very traumatic.
我们线上那些医生平时死亡见多了，这次他们也受不了。
The doctors on our line are dying more often, and this time they can't stand it.
他们也要在晚上出去喘口气，透透风。
They also go out at night to catch their breath and breathe.
每天大家在群里有很多情绪宣泄，也需要给彼此支持。
Everyday there is a lot of catharsis in the group and there is a need to support each other.
4号那天晚上，我觉得心太紧了。
On the night of the 4th, my heart felt too tight.
我需要缓一下，让自己哭了一场。
I need to slow down and make myself cry.
第二天我发了条朋友圈，说我今天休息。
The next day I sent out a circle of friends saying I was off today.
那天，我处理了一些手边的文字工作，做了一些老人和重症病患的心理支持。
That day, I handled some of the paperwork at hand and gave some psychological support to the elderly and the seriously ill.
然后一个孕妇的老公就来了条微信，“我今天能打扰你一下吗？”他看到我那条朋友圈，就真的特别不好意思。
Then a pregnant woman's husband sent a message, "Can I bother you today?" He was really embarrassed to see my circle of friends.
我说，你随时可以打扰我，这都不算打扰。
I said, you can disturb me at any time, it is not disturbing.
8号下午还有个病患，算是这些天以来比较有意思的一个。
There's another patient on the afternoon of the 8th, one of the more interesting these days.
那天护士通知他，收拾东西转院，120一会儿就来，也没告诉他转哪儿。
That day the nurse told him to pack up and transfer to the hospital, and he came back 120 minutes later without telling him where to turn.
他就给我发个微信说：“我要上救护车了，我都不知道去哪儿。
He sent me a message saying, "I'm going to the ambulance. I don't even know where to go.
”我当时有点着急，但还是会打趣跟他说，让他有什么情况告诉我。
"I was a little worried, but I would tease him into telling him what had happened.
他说：“你放心，我第一时间告诉你。
"Don't worry, I'll tell you the first time," he said.
”然后他一路上随时跟我通报，到哪儿了，又到哪儿了。
"Then he kept me informed of where he had been and where he had gone.
到了医院还跟我说：“现在进医院了，但是还要等，进了病房我再告诉你。
When I got to the hospital, I said, "I'm in the hospital now, but I'll wait until I get to the hospital room.
”过一会儿又来一条：“进病房了，我觉得条件还不错。
"Then came another:" I'm in the ward, and I don't think it's too bad.
”我能感受到这些病患和家属对我们的需要和感激。
I can feel the need and gratitude of these patients and their families.
一个生病的人在这种混乱的状况下，会很不安。
A sick person in such a chaotic situation can be very upset.
这个时候你跟他的沟通，就让他觉得，还有一个人是跟他在一起的。
This time you communicate with him, let him feel that there is another person with him.
4号见红的那位感染孕妇，在2月5日终于在人民东院剖腹生了，母子平安。
4 see the red infected pregnant woman, February 5 in the People's East House finally delivered a Caesarean section, mother and child safe.
34周的那位黄陂孕妇，又打了一天电话。
The 34-week-old Huangpi pregnant woman made another phone call.
到了6号，社区通知他们可以去黄陂人民医院。
On the 6th, the community informed them that they could go to the Huangpi People's Hospital.
到医院做了胎心监护，又复查CT，医生判断可能要提前剖腹产。
To the hospital to do fetal heart monitoring, and review CT, doctors may have to pre-cesarean section.
但是黄陂这边没有条件做，于是开了转诊单，又转到了协和西院。
But Huangpi did not have the conditions to do, so issued a referral list, and then transferred to the Western Concorde.
第二天下午，她在协和西院剖腹生产。
The next afternoon, she gave birth by Caesarean section in Concorde.
孩子送到儿童医院隔离看护，做进一步观察。
The children were taken to a children's hospital for further observation.
这个时候出生的孩子，都好坚强。
Children born at this time, are very strong.
到了这几天，孕妇就诊虽然没有真正形成一个有优先权可言的就诊通道，但难度小了很多。
Over the past few days, pregnant women's visits, while not really forming a priority access to the clinic, but much less difficult.
之前，医院的病产房、防护物资和装备，都不具备收治条件。
Previously, the hospital maternity ward, protective materials and equipment, do not have the conditions for admission.
只能在最后关头，把孕妇硬挤到一个能收她的医院里。
At the last minute, she had to be forced into a hospital where she could be admitted.
现在，志愿者依然每天打电话跟医院核实是否能收孕妇，医院还没有公开说可以收，电话也经常打不通。
Now, volunteers still call the hospital every day to check whether pregnant women can be received, the hospital has not publicly available, and the telephone is often blocked.
但是，从这几天的情况看，比较紧急的孕妇做核酸检测是能优先排的。
However, from these days, the more urgent pregnant women to do nucleic acid testing can be prioritized.
由社区来对接，只要能做胎心检测的医院，是不会拒绝孕妇的，然后由医生判断是否住院生产或者转院。
Docking by the community, as long as the hospital can do fetal heart test, will not refuse the pregnant women, and then the doctor to determine whether hospital delivery or transfer.
没有再出现之前几天那么艰难，求助无门的危急情况了。
There is no longer the difficult and desperate situation of the previous few days.
现在，基本上不由我们直接帮孕妇找医院。
Now, it's basically not up to us to find a hospital for pregnant women.
我们的工作变成帮他们跟社区反映情况，同时提供在线医疗支持，也会指导她们怎么跟医院描述病症。
Our job is to help them talk to their communities, provide online medical support, and teach them how to describe their illness to the hospital.
这几天，没有原来那样满天飞的救助信息，我早上起来都不那么紧张了，一下子还有点不适应。
In the past few days, there is no relief information so full of sky, I wake up in the morning is not so nervous, all of a sudden there is a bit out of place.
现阶段的情况看，病患能不能看上病，社区是最关键的一个环节，所有病患的床位几乎都由社区跟医院对接。
At this stage, the community is the most critical link in the patient's ability to see the disease. Almost all beds for all patients are connected to the hospital by the community.
黄陂这个妈妈最后能进医院，是由社区联系上的。
Huangpi this mother can finally enter the hospital, is connected by the community.
所以遇到紧急的病人，志愿者就需要不断骚扰社区，随时通报这个人的病情，可能就有机会往前排一排，更快找到床位。
So when faced with an emergency, the volunteers constantly harass the community, keep the person informed of the person's condition, and may have a chance to line up and find a bed sooner.
我们跟市妇联通报紧急病例，他们也是跟社区打电话，让社区把这个病例紧急通报，把病人往前排。
We told the FMC about the emergency cases, and they also called the community and asked the community to report the case urgently and put the patient forward.
开展疑似和确诊病患集中隔离之后，我们大的志愿者团队有个想法，希望做一个线上诊疗和线下医疗的对接。
After intensive isolation of suspected and diagnosed patients, our large volunteer team had the idea of an online and off-line medical interface.
当时的设想是，跟每个隔离区的社区联络，让我们的线上医生能够看病患的CT片，判断是否确诊，是不是需要转院，而不是让社区去判断病人的轻重缓急。
The idea was to reach out to the communities in each area of separation so that our online doctors could see the patient's CT and see if the diagnosis needed to be confirmed, rather than leaving it to the community to judge the patient's priorities.
但这个想法没法推进，很多部门对接不上，社区也不理我们。
But this idea can't move forward, many departments can't connect, and the community doesn't care about us.
我觉得目前的情况是，各机构没有统筹工作的机制，大家都各干各的。
It seems to me that, at present, there is no mechanism for integration among the agencies and that everyone is doing their part.
开展集中隔离之后，我们的救助进入到了新阶段。
After intensive isolation, our assistance has entered a new phase.
各个隔离区的条件很不一样，我们现在还没有摸清楚，社区是按什么标准来分配病人的。
Conditions in the colonies are very different, and we do not yet have a clear picture of the criteria by which the community allocates patients.
有一个我跟了两三天的病人，他看到隔离区没有消毒，就一层一层上报，打所有能打的电话。
One patient I had been following for two or three days saw no disinfection in the quarantine zone and reported every phone call he could make, floor by floor.
那天，他高烧39度，根本吃不下饭，还是很努力去吃。
He had a high fever of 39 degrees that day and could not eat at all.
他吃了退烧药以后出很多汗，一出汗就很烦躁。
He sweated a lot after taking the antipyretic, and was very irritable when he sweated.
他说：“我不是焦虑症吧？”我说：“你只是在很努力地治病，让自己好起来。
"I'm not an anxiety disorder, am I?" I said. "You're just trying so hard to get better."
”在疫区的每一个病患都在努力求生。
Every patient in the affected areas is struggling to survive.
新型肺炎疫情牵动人心，《在人间》现面向全国网友征稿：（一）疫区影像日记如果你身处疫区请你用照片（视频）和文字记录你所听闻和见到的一切照片不少于3张文字不少于300字投稿方式：微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）（二）抗击疫情真实故事无论你是一线医护人员、志愿者、确诊或疑似患者及家属、已治愈出院人士等等，如果希望讲述疫情相关经历，请微信联系人间君（zairenjianliving）。
If you are in an epidemic area, please use photos (video) and writing to record all photos you hear and see in no less than 300 words. Whether you are a frontline health care worker, volunteer, confirmed or suspected patient and family member, cured patient or discharged person, please contact the ruler of the world by letter.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在人间丨一个武汉志愿者的焦灼：孕妇就诊流程到底是怎样的？。
Worry in the World, a Volunteer in Wuhan: What is the procedure for pregnant women to see a doctor?
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "其他";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; other & quot;;
var nickname = "在人间living";。
var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; at & quot; among men.
var msg_title = "在人间丨一个武汉志愿者的焦灼：孕妇就诊流程到底是怎样的？";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; &
var msg_desc = "在疫区的每一个病患都在努力求生。
var msg _ desc = & quot; Every patient in the affected area is struggling to survive.
";。
;; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫情下的春运：起初，没有一个人戴口罩',。
& # 160; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨疫区影像日记（三）：4个离家和回家的故事',。
Ritual: & amp; # 39; & # 45; Imaged Diary into the World; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
title: '在人间丨武汉封城第一天',。
& quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
subject_name: '在人间living',。
Subject _ name: & apos; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var title ="在人间living";。
var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; at human & quot;
