在0℃的冷库守护武汉。
Wuhan is guarded by a cold storage facility at 0 ℃.
成琨。
Jade.
真实故事计划                      。
The real story plan.
真实故事计划。
The real story plan.
每天一个打动人心的原创真实故事。
An original and true story that touches the heart every day.
。
.
疫情席卷武汉，大多数商超餐厅打烊，坚持营业的新零售超市承受着订单量暴增的压力。
With the epidemic sweeping Wuhan, most commercial supermarkets are closing, and new retail supermarkets are under pressure from a surge in orders.
位于武汉郊区的一间加工中心正在高速运转，日均数十万份生鲜食物被运送到室温0℃的冷库。
A processing center on the outskirts of Wuhan is running at a high speed, with hundreds of thousands of fresh food transported to a cold storage facility at room temperature.
这个冬天，有一群人正在这里透支着体力，每天十几个小时分拣、包装，只为武汉居民能采购到新鲜的蔬果和肉蛋。
This winter, a group of people are overdrawn here, a dozen hours a day sorting, packaging, only Wuhan residents can purchase fresh fruits and vegetables and meat eggs.
20岁的蔡志炫在冷库中坚持至今。
The 20-year-old Cai Zhixian persists in the cold storage so far.
他说，仓库很冷，但心很热。
The warehouse was cold, but the heart was hot, he said.
“今天一库、二库，总量50万件，大家加油！”1月23日下午3点多，蔡志炫在钉钉工作群里收到了消息。
"Today a library, two libraries, a total of 500,000 pieces, we refuel!" January 23 more than 3 p.m., Cai Zhixian in the nail work group received the message.
这意味着，50万件生鲜食物，需要经过分类、包装处理后，在次日凌晨前配送到门店，供武汉市民选购。
This means that 500,000 pieces of raw food need to be sorted, packaged and distributed to stores before the early morning hours of the next day for people to buy in Wuhan.
这是日常工作量的3倍。
This is three times the daily workload.
作为盒马鲜生武汉加工中心的一名分拣员，蔡志炫已经高负荷工作了10多天，每天从下午5点忙到凌晨3点。
As a sorter at Wuhan processing center, Cai Zhixian has been working overtime for more than 10 days, running from 5pm to 3am every day.
到家后，他累得顾不上看手机，倒头就睡。
When he got home, he was too tired to look at his cell phone and fell asleep.
直到钉钉提示音响起，睡眼惺忪的蔡志炫拿起手机，才被数字“50万”惊醒。
Until the nail sound sounded, sleepy Cai Zhi dazzled to pick up the phone, the number "half a million" wake up.
自从新型冠状病毒肺炎确定人传人，武汉市内许多餐厅、商超暂停营业，居民们做好了屯粮食、少出门的打算。
Since the confirmation of the new coronavirus pneumonia, many restaurants and shops in Wuhan have temporarily suspended operations.
这天凌晨2点，武汉市宣布了封城令，恐慌再次升级——交通停运后，买不到菜怎么办？正在值班的盒马加工中心负责人夏佳祥预感到，天亮之后，看到封城消息的人们会涌入超市抢购，今天的量肯定不够。
At 2: 00 a.m., Wuhan announced the closure of the city, panic escalated again - traffic stopped, do not buy vegetables? On duty, the head of the Boxer Ma processing center, Xia Jiaxiang, had a presentiment that after daybreak, people who saw the news of the city would rush into the supermarket to rush for food.
他和应急小组连忙沟通各地供应商的存货和通行，精确到了“哪一辆车几点从哪一个高速公路进来”。
He and the emergency response team rushed to communicate the inventory and movements of suppliers everywhere, to the point where "which motorway comes in from which."
12个小时后，他们谋到了这50万件食物。
Twelve hours later, they found half a million pieces of food.
这些内情，20岁的男孩蔡志炫所知甚少。
Little is known about this 20-year-old boy, Cai Zhixian.
他家在武汉市汉南区的一个鱼池旁，远离城区、人烟稀少，与加工中心离得近，下班走路回家仅需十分钟。
His family lives near a fish pond in Wuhan city's Hannan district, far from the city, sparsely populated, close to the processing center, and only ten minutes' walk home from work.
两点一线的节奏里，恐怖的疫情还没有切实侵入他的生活。
In the rhythm of the two-point line, the horror of the epidemic has not really intruded into his life.
只是听说有些朋友的小区里出现疑似病例，网上确诊数字在不断增加，他上下班路上都捂得严严实实，反倒更担心在武汉城区执勤的交警舅舅。
Only heard that some friends in the community of suspected cases, the number of confirmed online is increasing, he is covered with the road to work, but more worried about the traffic police uncle on duty in downtown Wuhan.
图| 疫情来临前的大男孩蔡志炫陡增的工作量这时让他紧张起来。
The sudden increase in workload of Cai Zhixian, the eldest boy before the outbreak, made him nervous.
不到5点，蔡志炫就赶到了加工中心。
Less than 5 o'clock, Cai Zhixian rushed to the processing center.
进门前，负责安检的同事为他量体温、消毒双手，还递给他一个新的口罩备用。
Before entering, the security officer took his temperature, disinfected his hands and handed him a new mask to use.
盒马武汉加工中心有两个冷链仓，一库负责蔬菜水果，二库负责肉禽蛋、烘焙品和乳制品。
Wuhan processing center box there are two cold chain warehouses, one in charge of vegetables and fruits, the second in charge of meat eggs, baked goods and dairy products.
蔡志炫在常年低温的二库。
Cai Zhixian in the second library year round low temperature.
为了保鲜，即使在冬天，冷库里的冷风机也要每隔4小时运行40分钟，才能保持室温在0到4℃。
To keep it fresh, even in winter, the chiller in the freezer has to run for 40 minutes every four hours to keep room temperature between 0 and 4 ℃.
蔡志炫在自己的衣服外面套上工作服，一件橙色棉袄。
Cai Zhixian put on his overalls, an orange cotton jacket.
在这里工作了3个月，蔡志炫逐渐适应了这种冷。
After working here for three months, Cai Zhixian gradually adapted to the cold.
走进仓库的那一刹那，还是忍不住打了个哆嗦，口罩挡住了哈出来的热气。
Walking into the warehouse that moment, or can not help but shudder, masks out of the hot out of the gas.
头顶的冷风机嗡嗡作响，在气流作用下，蔡志炫的头发竖了起来，顿时额头一凉，困意全无。
The top of the fan humming, in the air effect, Cai Zhixian's hair stood up, immediately a cool forehead, sleepy.
看到冷库里堆放的货物，蔡志炫才对今天的工作量有了实际的感受。
Seeing the goods stacked in the cold storage, Cai Zhi-cai has a real sense of today's workload.
左边区域的牛奶等乳制品，比往常高了一倍。
Dairy products such as milk in the left area are twice as high as usual.
旁边挨着封装好的各种肉类、鸡蛋，似乎是为了节省空间，摆放得格外紧凑。
Next to the packaging of a variety of meat, eggs, seems to be to save space, especially compact.
朝右边望去，两个备用区域临时投入使用，存放着豆腐、丸子等火锅食材。
Looking to the right, two back-up areas temporarily put into use, stored bean curd, balls and other hot pot ingredients.
蔡志炫一时分不清，这些是为各家各户的年夜饭准备的，还是疫情已经严重到需要大量囤货。
Cai Zhixian is not clear for a moment, these are prepared for the family dinner, or the epidemic has become so serious as to require a large stock of goods.
他深吸一口气，在心里犯嘀咕：“这么多货，也不知道明早八九点能不能下班。
He took a deep breath and said to himself, "So many things, I wonder if I can get out of work tomorrow morning at eight or nine.
”这时，经理夏佳祥拍了拍手，说道：“辛苦大家了，公司请大家吃汉堡、全鸡，马上就送到。
"At this time, manager Xia Jiaxiang clapped his hands and said," It's hard for everyone.
”气氛被调动了起来，大家开始在各自负责的区域分拣货物。
The mood was changed and people began sorting through their respective areas of responsibility.
双手碰到的地方是冰凉的，但不到半小时，蔡志炫已经汗流浃背。
His hands were cold where they touched, but in less than half an hour Cai Zhixian was wet with sweat.
风吹得他有些心烦，冷风机歇下来，才舒服了点。
The wind irritated him a little, and the chiller rested and became more comfortable.
图| 工作辛苦，冷库里也出汗通常在晚上9点前，供应商会送来全部货品。
Rough work and sweating in the cold storage. Usually by 9 p.m., the supplier will deliver all the goods.
但这天夜晚，送货的车辆不断前来，封城13个小时后，最后一箱鸡肉在冷库门口被卸下，50万件货品才算全部送到。
But that night, delivery vehicles kept arriving, and 13 hours after the city was closed, the last carton of chicken was unloaded in front of the freezer and half a million items were delivered.
夏佳祥早就预料到人手不够，包括蔡志炫在内，盒马加工中心的正式工不足原来的七成。
Ms Cha foresaw a shortage of staff, including Cai Zhixian, the box horse processing centre full-time workers less than 70% of the original.
开工前，夏佳祥加急联系熟悉的临时工，除去已经回老家的人，能来的都答应了，好几个员工还提出带家人来帮忙。
Before the start of the construction, Xia Jiaxiang to contact familiar temporary workers, except those who have returned home, who were able to agree to come, several staff members also offered to bring family to help.
最终，29个健康核实后的临时工加入了这场抗疫行动。
In the end, 29 temporary health workers joined the fight against the disease.
蔡志炫也喊来了妈妈和弟弟。
Cai Zhixian also called his mother and brother.
在蔡志炫入职之前，妈妈经常周末过来做短工，是水果加工包装线的“老手”。
Before Cai Zhi dazzled into the post, mother often do weekend to do short-term work, is fruit processing packaging line "veteran."
而这个寒假，上高中的弟弟第一次来体验打工生活，跟着蔡志炫学干活。
This winter vacation, the younger brother in high school came to experience working life for the first time, followed Cai Zhi dazzle learning to work.
在蔡志炫眼里，弟弟到底是个小孩子。
In Cai Zhixian's eyes, the younger brother is a child after all.
弟弟第一天过来时，闻到仓库里面包的香味犯了馋，偷偷跟蔡志炫说：“哎，为什么只能看不能吃。
When my brother came over the first day, he smelt the smell of bread in the warehouse. He said to Cai Zhixian secretly, "Hey, why can't you eat it?
”23日，是弟弟“体验”的第9天，蔡志炫隐隐担心他中途撑不下去。
"On February 23, the ninth day of his younger brother's" experience, "Cai expressed vague fears that he would not make it through.
晚上11点多，刚送过来的鸡肉等着被搬进冷库。
It was past 11 p. m., and the chicken was waiting to be moved to the cold storage.
幸好此时室内外温差不大，没有给搬运增加难度。
Fortunately, the indoor and outdoor temperature difference is not large at this time, does not increase the difficulty of moving.
若在武汉夏季，从冷库里出来时，浑身会像火燎一样疼。
If in Wuhan summer, from the cold storage when coming out, will be like fire-like pain.
蔡志炫喊弟弟一起，弟弟有些不情愿：“太脏了，不想搬。
Cai Zhi yells brother together, younger brother is a bit reluctant: "Too dirty, do not want to move.
”由于货量太大，供货商来不及换盒马统一的胶筐，直接用了自家的旧箱子。
"Because the quantity was too large, the supplier had no time to change boxes of uniform gabions and used his old boxes directly.
“没关系，搬完洗手消毒嘛。
"Never mind, wash your hands and disinfect them.
”蔡志炫说完就开始动手，弟弟也闷声搬了起来。
"said Cai Zhixian, and his brother began to move sullenly.
兄弟俩的衣服再次被汗水浸湿，一晚上反复好几次，秋衣紧紧黏在身上。
The brothers' clothes were again soaked with sweat and repeated several times throughout the night, and the autumn clothes clung to their bodies.
不传递负面情绪，是蔡志炫这3个多月学来的工作哲学。
Do not transmit negative emotions, Cai Zhixian these three months learned from the work philosophy.
有时候，体力已经透支了，蔡志炫会第一时间掐灭“不想做”的想法，否则连精神也跟不上。
Sometimes, the physical strength has been overdrawn, Cai Zhi will first nip out the "do not want to do" idea, otherwise even the spirit can not keep up.
蔡志炫觉得，他累的时候，同事一定也累了，于是时不时地喊一句：“搞完下班，搞完下班，再坚持一下。
Cai Zhixian felt that when he was tired, his co-workers must be tired, so from time to time he shouted, "Finish the work, finish the work, and stick to it.
”图| 疫情期间工作量大心理暗示的作用下，时间走得快了许多。
Time flies, thanks to the psychological cues of its workload at the time of the outbreak.
到了24日凌晨3点半，蔡志炫和弟弟已经连续工作了10个小时。
By 3: 30 a.m. on the 24th, Cai and his brother had been working for 10 hours.
晚上吃的汉堡消化得差不多了，蔡志炫觉得有点饿，想起公司还给每人发了一个馒头。
The hamburger at night almost digestible, Cai Zhixian felt a little hungry, remembering that the company also sent everyone a steamed bread.
他主动用微波炉热好馒头，大家几口就吃完了。
He volunteered to warm up the steamed bread in the microwave oven and everyone finished it in a few bites.
还剩下8万件货物，没有人顾得上说话。
There were still 80,000 goods left, and no one could speak.
重回岗位后，蔡志炫发现，很长一段时间都没有人吭声。
After returning to work, Cai Zhixian found that for a long time no one spoke up.
吵闹的冷风机一停，整个冷库，安静得只剩下走路时鞋底的摩擦声、搬运时的喘气声、摞放黑色胶筐时的碰撞声。
As soon as the noisy air-conditioner stopped, the room was quiet except for the scratching of the soles of the shoes as we walked, the panting of moving, the crash of hoses with black gabions.
蔡志炫抬头一看，大家手上的动作比下午更快了。
Cai Zhixian looked up, everybody's hand action is faster than afternoon.
分拣员们已经顾不上冷，只想赶紧做完剩下的活儿。
The sorters were too cold to finish the rest of the work.
凌晨6点，50万件食物全部分配完毕，整整齐齐地摆放在18个指定区域。
At 6 a.m., half a million pieces of food were distributed in neat rows in 18 designated areas.
为了准时营业，盒马门店增加了前来运货的人手。
In order to open on time, box horse store increased the number of people to transport goods.
9点59分，武汉封城近24小时，马路上偶尔有出租车出现。
At 9: 59, Wuhan closed the city nearly 24 hours, the road occasionally taxi appeared.
各大超市的门口，手里拿着布袋的人们在排队等着大门拉开。
At the gates of major supermarkets, people lined up with bags of cloth to wait for the door to open.
1分钟后，盒马发送了一条微博：“今早武汉18家盒马货架已上满。
A minute later, the box sent a message: "This morning Wuhan 18 boxes of horse shelves have been full.
今天是大年三十，望新春安康，好好吃饭，武汉加油。
Today is New Year's Eve, look at the new spring well-being, eat well, Wuhan refueling.
”一位住在武昌的女士头一天没能买到菜。
A woman living in Wuchang couldn't get food the first day.
她打开了盒马App，想碰碰运气，看见“门店供应充足，到店安心选购”的提示，才放心戴好口罩出门。
She opened a box of App, want to take a chance, see "store supply sufficient, to shop confidently" prompt, just wear a mask to go out.
到了家附近的盒马超市，恰好遇到店员正在补货，买到了一家人三天的菜量。
Arriving home near the box horse supermarket, happened to meet the store clerk is replenishing, bought a family's three-day meal.
她当然不会想到，这是蔡志炫和同事们在冷库里奋战了十几个小时的成果。
She certainly did not think that this is Cai Zhixian and colleagues in the cold storage after more than 10 hours of hard work.
凌晨6点15分，累到瘫痪的蔡志炫终于下班了。
At 6: 15 in the morning, paralyzed Cai Zhixian finally got off work.
天已经蒙蒙亮。
It was already dark.
一连好几天阴雨，武汉的清晨比冷库还冷。
It rained for days, and Wuhan was colder in the morning than in the cold.
蔡志炫感觉刚从冷库出来，又走进了冰窖，想回家洗一个热水澡。
Cai Zhixian felt like he had just come out of the freezer and into the cellar, wanting to go home for a hot bath.
“再坚持一下，这几天正缺人。
'Hold on, there's a shortage these days.
”他怕弟弟怕累。
He was afraid of his brother being tired.
弟弟却没说什么，点头答应。
My brother said nothing and nodded in agreement.
兄弟俩不再说话，隐约感觉到某种异样。
The brothers stopped talking and felt something strange.
路上空无一人，蔡志炫拿出手机刷了刷，所有的新闻标题，都是“肺炎”和“封城”。
The road is empty, Cai Zhixian took out his mobile phone brush, all the news headlines, are "pneumonia" and "closure."
他想起来，小区出现疑似病例的朋友，已经在家隔离了。
He remembered that friends in the neighborhood with suspected cases had been isolated at home.
而好多住得远的同事，仍然冒着风险前来上班。
And many colleagues who live far away still venture to work.
事态比想象得严重太多。
Things are more serious than they think.
蔡志炫这才明白，同事们一起忙碌13个小时的意义，或许是为了让武汉人在春节正常吃上饭。
Cai Zhixian this just understood, the colleague works together 13 hours the significance, perhaps is lets Wuhan people eat normally in the Spring Festival.
然而，这个除夕，蔡志炫一家人没能吃上年夜饭。
However, this New Year's Eve, Cai Zhixian family did not eat dinner.
蔡志炫妈妈所在的水果包装线，下班要早一些。
Cai Zhixian mother's fruit packaging line, off work a little earlier.
等儿子们到家后，她煮了两碗面条，就当提前吃了团圆饭。
When her sons got home, she cooked two bowls of noodles and ate the reunion dinner in advance.
妈妈看着他们吃完后，才各自睡去。
Mother watched them eat before they went to sleep alone.
等睡醒了，母子三人又将重返加工中心，共同面对第二轮“50万”。
Wake up, mother and child will return to the processing center, face a second round of "500,000."
图| 蔡志炫和妈妈、弟弟一起上阵疫情期间，很多武汉盒马门店销售的水果，都经过了蔡志炫妈妈双手的包装。
During the war with his mother and brother, many fruits sold in Wuhan's box-horse stores were packed with mom's hands.
蔡妈妈的本职工作是加工汽车零部件，1月19日，汽车厂放假后，听说盒马最近缺人手，主动联系了夏佳祥。
Tsai mother's job is to process auto parts, January 19, after the car factory holiday, heard box horse recently short of manpower, took the initiative to contact Jiaxiang.
既能补贴家用，还能为疫区贡献一份力。
Not only can subsidize the household, but also can contribute to the epidemic area.
尽管水果的需求量不及蔬菜、肉禽蛋那么多，但蔡妈妈还是每天工作到凌晨两三点。
Although the demand for fruit is not as great as that of vegetables and eggs, Tsai works until two or three in the morning.
她擅长做这些精细活儿，用保鲜膜包好水果，还要编竹筐、折礼盒。
She was good at these delicate tasks, wrapped fruit in plastic wrap, and knitted baskets and gift boxes.
最近新来的临时工多，她便细心地教新人如何把塑料提手插进礼盒。
With the recent influx of temporary workers, she carefully taught the newcomer how to insert a plastic handle into the box.
疲惫的时候，蔡志炫妈妈会担心隔壁冷库的儿子熬不下去。
When tired, mother Cai Zhixian will worry about the next cold storage son can not go on.
转念一想，吃点苦也好，况且，这个春节不光他们一家在这里坚持着。
On second thought, eat something bitter, besides, the Spring Festival is not only their family here to insist.
水果包装线的组长邵尧钲也带着父亲、妻子在加工中心加班，家里只留下母亲和1岁的孩子。
The leader of the fruit packing line, Shao Yao, also took his father and wife to work overtime in the processing center.
有人问，怎么不让家人回去陪孩子。
Someone asked why the family was not allowed to go back with the children.
邵尧钲回答：“说句不好听的话，就算我一人遭了，也会传染给全家，不如动员大家来帮忙，做些力所能及、有意义的事。
"Without listening to a word, Shao Yao replied," Even if I had been alone, I would have infected my whole family.
”蔡妈妈觉得这话在理，一家人能在一起，累点也值得。
"Tsai felt justified, and it was worth the effort to get the family together.
在她眼里，真正辛苦的，是那些家人在外地的正式工。
In her eyes, it was the regular workers whose families were out of town who really worked hard.
“这些春节值班的人，原本初七就该轮休了，现在因为疫情，一直坚守在这里。
"These people on duty in the Spring Festival, the original seven on the rotation, now because of the epidemic, has been stuck here.
”有一次在休息室，她听见同事王松在和远在徐州的妻子视频。
Once in the lounge, she heard her colleague Wang Song in a video with his wife, who was far away in Xuzhou.
为了不让妻子担心，王松像汇报工作似的：“今天仓库消毒了3次。
"The warehouse was sanitized three times today," Wang said, reporting to his wife.
”“我按时换了口罩，你放心。
"You can rest assured that I have changed my mask on time.
”“晚饭吃了，公司还加了餐。
"" Dinner was served, and the company dined.
”“别哭啦，疫情过去了我就回家了。
"Don't cry, I went home after the epidemic had passed.
”从大年初一开始，夏佳祥所在的加工中心每日供货总量有所下降。
"From the beginning of New Year's Day, the processing center where Xia Jiaxiang is located reduced the total daily supply.
受封城影响，部分供应商已经在前两天送完了货，物资告急。
Affected by the blockade, some suppliers have been in the first two days of delivery of goods, supplies are in urgent need.
同时，如果继续这样的工作时长，冷链仓的几十号员工恐怕熬不住。
At the same time, if the continuation of such a long time, cold chain warehouse dozens of staff may not survive.
夏佳祥决定，暂停一些需求量小的食品供应（比如烘焙），保持民生必需品（蔬菜和肉蛋）充足供应。
Ms. Xia decided to suspend some of the low-demand food supplies (such as baking) and to maintain an adequate supply of basic necessities (vegetables and eggs).
武汉封城20多天，作为幕后的加工中心有条不紊地运转着。
Wuhan closed the city for more than 20 days, as the behind-the-scenes processing center in an orderly manner.
为了顾及到所有环节，夏佳祥最大的感受是“快”，大到与门店、供应商配合，小到与社区沟通员工正常出行，都需要及时响应。
In order to take into account all links, the biggest feeling of Xia Jiaxiang is "fast," large enough to work with stores, suppliers, small to communicate with the community staff normal travel, need to respond in a timely manner.
在这间位于华中的加工中心之外，盒马还“借用”其他餐饮企业的员工，快速培训上岗并为他们支付酬劳。
In addition to the processing center in central China, Boxer also "borrows" employees from other restaurants to train quickly and pay them for their services.
共克时艰的日子里，蔡志炫没有停下来休息。
In difficult times, Cai Zhixian did not stop to rest.
他也没想到，自己能坚持这么久。
He didn't think he could hold out for so long.
初中辍学后，蔡志炫断断续续打零工，一直稳定不下来。
After dropping out of junior high school, Cai Zhixian intermittent odd jobs, has not been stable down.
待得最久的公司，是武汉一家街舞工作室，常年要到全国各地办活动。
The company that stayed the longest was Wuhan, a hip-hop studio, to do activities around the country all year round.
直到去年11月，蔡志炫回家了，妈妈问他：“家对面的盒马，你要不要去试试？”那就试试吧，蔡志炫在心底给自己设了一周的期限。
Until last November, Cai Zhixian went home, his mother asked him: "Home opposite the box horse, you want to try it?" Then try, Cai Zhixian in the bottom of my heart set a week deadline.
图| 生活中的蔡志炫总是很乐观这份工作虽然上手很快，但十分考验体力和耐力。
CHOI Chi-hyun is always optimistic that the job, though fast-moving, is a test of stamina and stamina.
刚开始，最难忍的是冷，走动一两个小时才稍微暖和一点。
At first, the hardest part was the cold. It took an hour or two to get warm.
蔡志炫戴了一双棉手套，每抬一次装货箱就会磨损，分拣肉类又浸湿了，手套不到5天就破了。
Cai Zhixian wore a pair of cotton gloves, every time load box will wear, sorting meat again soaked, gloves in less than five days.
蔡志炫嫌手套碍事，干脆和其他人一样徒手干活。
Cai Zhixian thought gloves were in the way and simply worked bare-handed like everyone else.
多洗几次手，似乎就没那么冷了。
Wash your hands a few more times and it doesn't seem so cold.
熬夜上班对蔡志炫来说不是什么难事。
Staying up for work isn't too hard for Cai Zhixian.
他爱打游戏，以前常常在网吧通宵，睡一觉就精神了。
He likes to play games and used to stay up all night in the net bar.
打游戏时，他最喜欢大家为了目标全力拼杀的氛围。
When playing the game, he likes the atmosphere that everybody strives to kill for the goal most.
在二库这个小团队里，蔡志炫找到了这种氛围。
In the second library this small team, Cai Zhixian found this kind of atmosphere.
“好像没有大家做不到的事情。
"There seems to be nothing we can't do.
”蔡志炫打了一个比方，“如果一个陌生人走进我们冷库，就能感受到大家做事热火朝天的。
"If a stranger walks into our cold storage," says Cai, "we can feel people doing things like hot air.
而且大家不会各自冷着脸干活，休息时聊得很起劲，即使这个人不爱说话，也能很快融入我们。
And people don't work with their faces cold. They talk a lot during the break. Even if this person is not talkative, he can fit in quickly.
”尤其是一起经历了这次疫情，蔡志炫愈发觉得：冷库虽冷，但心很热。
"In particular, experienced the outbreak together, Cai Zhixian increasingly felt: cold storage, but the heart is very hot.
大年初三，夏佳祥目睹了这个小团队的“热”。
New Year's Day, Xia Jiaxiang witnessed the small team of "hot."
临近凌晨三点，大家都饿了，在休息室里翻箱倒柜，才找出了6桶方便面。
Toward three in the morning, everyone was hungry. They rummaged in the lounge until they found six barrels of instant noodles.
“女士优先！”有人提议。
"Ladies first!" someone suggested.
还剩3桶，“谁看上去最累谁吃。
With three barrels left, "Who looks the most tired to eat?
”夏佳祥知道，每个人都累，但从不展露在脸上，根本分不出“胜负”。
"Xia Jiaxiang knew that everyone was tired, but she never showed her face and could not tell the difference between victory and defeat.
最后，大家让来让去，才分完这些方便面。
Finally, we let go of the instant noodles.
第二天，夏佳祥搬来了一些吃的，“感动归感动，还是别让大家再饿着了。
The next day, Xia Jiaxiang moved to some food, "moved by moved, or do not let us hungry again.
”在疲惫和热情的交织中，蔡志炫发觉，“一个星期，一个月，一下子过去了。
"In a mixture of fatigue and enthusiasm," a week, a month, all of a sudden went by.
”年轻的蔡志炫，似乎找到了适合自己的职业。
"Young Cai Zhixian seems to have found a career that suits her.
更重要的是，身为武汉人，他想为这个城市做点事情。
More importantly, as a Wuhan native, he wanted to do something for the city.
冷库里只有冬天，但武汉很快会等来春天。
Cold storage only in winter, but Wuhan will soon wait for spring.
撰文| 成琨- END-疫情紧急，举国齐动。
SINGKE-END - The outbreak is urgent and the country is united.
真故会在“一起抗疫”专栏里，记录下不同人在这段特殊时期的努力。
It is true that in the "An Anti-epidemic" column, the efforts of different people in this particular period of time are recorded.
每一丝力量，都光芒万丈。
Every breath of power is radiant.
。
.
发送到看一看 。
Send it to see.
在0℃的冷库守护武汉。
Wuhan is guarded by a cold storage facility at 0 ℃.
长按识别前往小程序。
Long press identify to go to the applet.
var _ori_article_type = "文学";。
var _ ori _ article _ type = & quot; & quot; & quot;;
var nickname = "真实故事计划";。
Var nickname = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
var msg_title = "在0℃的冷库守护武汉";。
var msg _ title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; & # 45; at 0 ℃.
var msg_desc = "仓库很冷，但心很热。
Var msg _ desc = & quot; The warehouse was cold but hot.
";。
;; & quot;
var title ="真实故事计划";。
Var title = & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot; & quot;
